			PRACTICAL CHARITY.

		"In faith and hope the world will disagree,
		But all mankind's concerned in charity."

										POPE.

	There are persons who cannot reconcile prac-
tical and helpful charity with the ideas they
entertain of unselfishness and disinterested-
ness. Charity they believe to be exclusively
an emanation of the heart independent of the
head. "Let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth" is often quoted in condem-
nation of practical organizations for charitable
purposes. I do not propose to bring forward
or expound Scripture to illustrate the opinions
or the ground I have taken, but I honestly be-
lieve the Savior's words in their truest sense,
would confirm my sentiments upon this sub-
ject. Charity loses none of its sweetness or
grace by being wisely directed, and how can
we be entirely and judiciously wise in bestow-
ing charity without thorough knowledge of the
circumstances of any given case unless we as-
certain facts in relation to it. Thus you may
perceive the necessity of investigation in all
matters which require action of the nature of
charity; and the process of investigating and
rendering assistance should certainly be sub-
mitted to an authorized committee, and the de-
cision should be free from prejudice, as it must
invariably be a strong point, and perhaps one
involving reputation, unredeemable faults, and
in many instances entailing misery and woe,
if not the loss of life itself. True charity is
compatible with all the gentleness of the sym-
pathetic heart, and the ablest executive ability
of the head, the combined strength of the head
and heart are es[-]ential to the most complete

[Column 2]
system of self-helpfulness which is one of the
leading characteristics of the charity which
loves its neighbor as itself.
	There should be of course, some living links
that connect the people with such associations
as are formed for the amelioration of the con-
dition of those who are subjects for charity in
any of the ordinary significations of the term;
and these persons should familiarize them-
selves with details in whatever manner pos-
sible; if it were in the power of those who
lead out in these enterprises to give to those
who visit, some special training for their work,
such instruction would be most serviceable;
but here we might say with some considerable
degree of consistency, how can these persons
holding positions, teach that which they them-
selves are not versed in? One qualification all
visitors of this kind should possess, in a large
degree is tact, want of it will make him or her
more offensive than the want of help would
be unpleasant; one admirable qualification of
individual life is adaptability. Enter into the
subjects which those understand, with whom
you have to deal in these grave matters, let
them feel you can be interested in those things
which they estimate as their best and truest
helps in life.
	I wonder if those who give these subjects
time, thought and means, consider how much
real and permanent good might be effected by
the influence of the casual association between
the helper and the helped. There are many
young ladies who languish and pine of "ennui"
who might thus render good service to their
fellow-beings; and their very gentleness and
refinement, even their gaiety and beauty com-
ing with true grace and respectful demeanor,
into the humble dwellings of the less fortu-
nate, would be like the genial rays of sun-
shine after the clouds had darkened the sky, or
the soft rain or refreshing dew to the parched
earth. Smooth the pillow of the sick with
your soft, loving hands; read to the aged, or to
the working woman while she knits or sews;
talk to them as if you understood and recog-
nized their temporal as well as their spiritual
needs. Show them that you have a heart that
can feel for them, and if you will do some of
these things you will be laying up treasures
in heaven, and doing similar works, in a hum-
ble capacity to those of the beloved Savior.
Give a little of your leisure, a little of your
strength, a few cheering words and smiles, a
tender and wise sympathy for trouble or sor-
row, and it will be a real blessing to the receiver.
There are many who need these things who do
not want your money or your gifts, they want
sympathy, they want love, they want knowl-
edge how to live, and resolution to put good
and sensible ideas into every day practice.
The Relief Societies are organized on a thor-
ough and true system, but the minor points
are left to the genius and tact of those who
minister in these matters. It is thought to be
an inferior position to be a teacher (or visitor)
but if those teachers would fully weigh the
matter they would certainly infer that as they
minister in all humility and wisdom, upon
them is the very foundation resting of the best
development of this holy institution.
								THYRA.
	S. L. City, Jan. 10, 1877.


LOVE is won by love, or not at all. There
is no money or pride that a true heart
knows. Its exchanges are not low equiva-
lents. They are gifts, or they are nothing.
They are unalloyed attachments of love to
love, of heroism to heroism, of enthusiasm
to enthusiasm. Love is a celestial attrac-
tion of souls.


