			HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received for the first time as an
exchange The Utah County Enquirer, full of
County and other news, and seemingly well
adapted to its time and place.
	TENTH WARD.—The pupils of the 10 Ward
Sabbath School had a good time on Sunday.
A hundred and sixty prizes, embracing a wide
variety of articles, were distributed among
them. The teachers of the school also present-
ed a testimonial of respect to the superintend-
ent, Brother Jas. Woods.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the receipt [-]rom Wash-
ington of the "Congessional Record" of Dec.
30, 1876, containing the speech of Hon. H. W.
Blair in the House of Representatives. on the
manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors.
We would be glad to know that there were
many members of Congress as well as all other
public offices and positions, who would lend
their united restraining influence to abolish
this great curse of the country from the United
States. The speech is well worth reading and
gives many statements of facts and figures up-
on this important subject.
	"COMPILED LAWS of Utah."—This volume,
a work of about 900 pages is now completed.
It contains all the general statutes of Utah
now in force, and also the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, the Constitution of the United
States, the Organic Act of Utah, and all the
laws of Congress especially applicable to this
Territory: The work is arranged in regular
legal form, the c'assification of the acts, with
titles and chapters, head and marginal notes, a
complete, clear, and comprehensive index,
show that the legislative committee on compi-
lation, Honorables A O Smoot, Silas S. Smith
and R. T. Burtan, have been most careful and
exact in the performance of their labors.
	The volume is printed in clear, bold type, on
an excellent quality of law paper, and is well
and substantially bound in law calf. The work
was printed and bound at the Deseret News
Office.
	CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL—The 10th Ward
Young People's Christmas Festival, was a most
pleasing affair. At 2 p. m, the gentlemen of
the Deacons' Quorum, and young girls of the
Retrenchment Association assembled at the
new meeting house with their baskets laden
with good things. The hall was beautifully
decorated with festoons made of evergreens,
which the boys procured in the canyons, inter-
spersed with bright-hued artificial flowers
made by the young ladies—the "workmanship
of their own hands;" and those who have a
"love for the beautiful," must surely have felt
a pleasing influence on that bright Christmas
day, as they entered the hall which looked

[Column 2]
truly lovely in its holiday dress. After par-
taking the refreshments luxuriously supplied,
lively games and music were indulged in,
which added hearty enjoyment to the festive
scene, and peal after peal of merry laughter burst
forth from the joyous throng, which proved
very beneficial to the digestive organs, and
created a fund of good feeling in the participa-
tion. At half-past six o'clock the quadrille
band arrived, and the remainder of the even-
ing was past pleasantly in the dance which
closed at a reasonable hour. Thus ended our
Christmos day, and we feel to acknowledge
that God has abundantly blessed us.
									M. P.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion held a special meeting Thursday, Jan. 4,
at the Fireman's Hall, Mrs. Zina D. Young
presiding.
	Mrs. Young said the object of calling the
meeting was to adopt measures to instruct the
people how to raise silk worms successfully,
and in order to do so she thought it best to get
the experience of those who had been success-
ful, from the hatching out of the worm until
it had spun its cocoon; especially the mode of
feeding, and then have the information print-
ed in pamphlet form. She also stated that the
Association had eight pounds eleven ounces of
reeled silk that had been reeled by Mrs Cardon
of Logan.
	Mr. Paul A. Schettler stated that Mr. Joseph
Newman, silk raiser of San Francisco, had
paid us a visit on the 29th of December on his
way home from Philadelphia, where he had
been exhibiting silk culture in all its branches.
He gave us a good deal of useful information,
and said that though our reeled silk was not as
perfect as his, he thought we had made a good
start and ought to feel encouraged. He said
the principal object was to get our farmers to
plant out mulberry trees, millions of them.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in February, at two o'clock p. m.
