			WOMEN IN ITALY.

	Italy first, towards the close of the Mid
dle Ages, permitted to Woman the free ex-
ercise of distinguished talents. Olympia
Morata lectured publicly in Ferrara, the
universities of Padua and Bologna gave
chairs to female professors, and the study
of medicine, the higher mathematics, and
classic literature was open to the sex.
Shakespeare's "Portia" is less than a full
type of the accomplished Italian woman of
that day. At this moment, three or four
hundred years later, Germany, France, and
even England are not m[-]ch in advance of
the public sentiment which then accepted
such a recognition of Woman's capacity:
while no modern university has ventured
to go so far. Already, in the present gen-
eral development of Italy, the women are
preparing to claim their ancient privileges.
A new intellectual activity is stirring the
sex; not only in literature and art, also in
politics and sociology, we are beginning to
hear softer voice. The popular sympathy
with the martyred Bulgarians, which ex-
pressed itself through immense mass meet-
ings in Rome and Naples, no less than in
London and Glasgow, has given the Italian
women an opportunity which some of
them have instantly seized. It is true, in-
deed, that the Italian poetess, Signora Fau-

[Column 2]
Fusinato, has frequently made brief ad-
dresses before societies; but we cannot re-
call any previous instance of a woman ad-
dressing a great assemblage of the people.
At the meeting held at Rome in the Apollo
Theatre, on the 3d ult., the Countess Chioc-
ci appeared upon the platform, and present-
ed a written address, which she requested
to be published with the proceeding of the
meeting. It was accepted, and the address
would have been willingly heard by the au-
dience, had the Countess not lost her cour-
rge.
	A week afterward, an immense multi-
tude assembled in the atrium of the monas-
tery of Santa Maria la Nova, In Naples.
Thousands upon thousands of all classes of
people were present. The third speaker
was Miss Matilda Caselli, who displayed
such remarkable spirit and eloquence,
rousing the vast audience to such uncon-
trollable enthusiasm, that the remaining
orations in the programme were instantly
suppressed, and the resolutions adopted by
acclamation. From the report of her
speech we find that Miss Caselli was no less
daring than eloquent. In Naples, the so
long Bourbonized Naples, she cried to the
new people which is rising out of the for-
mer lazzaroni: "The Cross, the emblem of
humanity, can have no brotherhood with
the Crescent, the emblem of barbarism!
We repudiate the Jesuit policy which now
favors the Crescent, as we reject his author-
ity who usurps the name of Vicar of
Christ!" To appreciate the force of this ut-
terance, it must be remembered that the
policy which emanates from the Vatican
has been hitherto unfriendly [-]o the Orient-
al Christians, and therefore, so far as it
may affect diplomacy. favorable to the
Turkish side of the question. But the free-
dom of speech of Miss Caselli is hardly
more remarkable than the readiness with
which it was accorded to her, and the man-
ner in which it was received by the au-
dience. There are still many turbid ingre-
dients in the life of Italy, and if Italian
women are as wise and patient as they are
able and eloquent, they may render noble
service to their country.—N. Y. Tribune.


THOSE WHO suffer from sleeplessness—and
the number is not small—might do well to
notice their position at night. A German
physiologist states that the heating of the
earth by the sun causes magnetic currents
from the equator to each pole. We should
lie, therefore, in the direction of these cur-
rents; if we lie across these, the result is
unpleasant, and want of sleep is the conse-
quence. The head to the north is the best
position—to the west the worst. Physicians
who have charge of hospitals all attend to
the directions in which the beds are placed,
and with the best results.


"IT will do!"—"It will do!" is the com-
mon phrase of those who neglect little
things. "It will do!" has blighted many a
character, blasted many a fortune, sunk
many a ship, burned down many a house,
and ruined thousands of hopeful projects
for human good. It always means stopping
short of the right thing. It is a makeshift.
It is a failure and defeat. Not what "will
do," but what is the best possible thing to
do, is the point to be aimed at. "Let the
man once adopt the maxim of "It will do!"
and he is given over to the enemy; he is
on the side of incompetency and defeat;
and we give him up as a hopeless subject."
—Smiles.


