		WORK FOR A PURPOSE.

	There has just arisen for man and woman-
kind another year; with each successive year it
is customary to take a g[-]ance of retrospection
over the past one and contrast it with what
one had previously thought to accomplish.
There seems to be allotted to all persons a cer-
tain round of duties which some seem bound
to perform faithfully, and others dally over or
neglect. To the diligent it is always a source
of unpleasantness not to be able to do all that
seems necessary. If men or women resolve to 
approach a certain standard of excellence and
catch up all the little tangled threads dropped
inadvertently as they travel on the great high-
way of life, they must exercise all the energies
and fortitude they possess and even then it 
will be no easy sask. One great advantage the
diligent and constant worker has, is a freedom
from melancholy; regular work cheers the 
spirits and enlivens many otherwise lonely
hours. It is an antidote for sadness and de-
spondency. People live longer and enjoy life
more completely who have a settled object in 
view.	There is a great work to be done in this gen-
eration and those who are interested in the 
welfare of posterity should be willing and anx-
ious to take up their share of duties and respon-
sibilities and become co-workers with those
who are laboring-assiduously for a great pur-
pose.
	Was there ever a time when there were
more noble incentives to prompt men and wo-
men to action than now? The great vineyard
of the Lord needs more laborers; the bv-ways
and highways are thronged with idlers who 
hinder the workers from accomplishing their
duties and tasks, and offer all sorts of reasoning
and excuses for neglects, and sneer at and r[-]d-
icule the patient, earnest ones and reach out to 
them inducements to falter and linger and
neglect the field of labar. "There is no need
of me" is echoed here and there, "I can pur-
sue my own course and it will be quite as re-
munerative and more congenial, why should I 
trouble myself about the general welfare of
others. I can lead my own life." Yes a pur-
poseless one so far as eternity is concerned,
but pause, all mankind owe the world the best
solutions drawn from varied experiences and
phases of life. All these incidents help to an-
alyze the mysterious problem of the truest
aims and surest success in life. We do not
mean to be understood as alluding to success in 
monetary interests, but to the wisest most judic-
ious and safe control and guidance of all the 
gifts of God to mankind. He has placed His
children here to learn certain lessons, to gain
knowledge of high and exalted principles, and
work out such problems as shall best subserve

[Column 2]
His truest interests. The human body is in all
probability the finest workmanship of the great
Master Architect; and to understand the uses
and applications of all functions and faculties
God has given to man and woman, and make a
proper and just use of time, opportunities and
talents, is something greatly to be desired.
With all the eloquence each one possesses, let
him or her, if they aspire to eternal life
and exaltation, exhort and entreat in all hu-
mility, neighbors or friends, to be more awak-
ened to the special purposes of their creation
and mission upon earth. What need the true
and upright care for scorn or even censure from
those who have not the same noble aims to 
stimulate them? Work for a purpose and let it
be worthy all the sacrifice and endurance mor-
tals are capable of in this mundane sphere.


[Column 1]
