				LETTER.

						Dec. 28th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A sense of gratitude impels this attempt
to address you, and a species of gratitude
that only the "absent one" can feel for
aught which speaks of home and its beloved
associations. I do not wish you to think
your little paper is unappreciated; it is a
regular and truly welcome visitor, and its
contents I peruse with the deepest interest,
especially the accounts of the noble efforts
of our sisters to carry out the counsels of
our President. How nobly they are work-
ing: and truly the results of past endeav-
ors have proven what the united efforts of
faithful women can accomplish. Who can
but recognize the important role played by
WOMAN in every community. No organiz-
ation is complete without her influence, and
whree is her influence more potent and
more freely acknowledged than among the
Latter-day Saints. The world regard Po-
lygamy as degrading and lowering, and as
the great circumscriber of the intellectual
faculties of woman, but how well do we
know the contrary to be the truth, and un-
derstand the great advantages of a family
organized upon this elevated plan. Every
wife is benefitted both temporally and spir-
itually, and her sphere becomes broader,
grander and holier. Not only can we per-
form the sacred duties of wife and mother,
so dear to every true woman's heart, but
our usefulness can extend to other great
and glorious fields, and we can be as co-
workers with our brethren in rolling forththe great work of the Latter days.
	In addition to the counsel to organize in-
to Relief and Retrenchment Societies—the
great blessing of which all Israel can but
acknowledge—we have had many other im-
portant counsels, which the majority of our
sisters have faithfully endeavored to put
into execution, and the results have gener-
ally proven satisfactory, because our Father
is the great instigator of all.
	Cultivate the mulberry and manufacture
silk; make your own hats and bonnets, and
"let your adornments be the workmanship
of your own hands." In short the idea is,
sustain home manufacture in every sense of
the word, by your faith, your prayers, your
patronage, and by conducting and sustain-
ing an institution wherein home products
may be bought and sold.
	And now the word is, "Sisters, go thou to
and save the grain." What a mission! Do
we feel sufficiently the responsibility? Truly
it should be regarded as the "word of the
Lord," and we should understand that all
assist in this enterprise by retrenching
from every superfluity and practising wise
economy.
	Then let us all be gleaners, that the great
Reaper may not be forced to chastise us for
extravagance, or indolence, but seeing our
faithfulness and diligence, will, as in that
harvest time of old, leave for us "a few
bundles by the wayside."

	Then, sisters, work with woman's will,
	And all the bins and gran'ries fill;
	Yes, every mother, sister, wife
	Save grain for "bread—the staff of life."
	That when the time so long declared

[Column 2]
	Shall come, we'll not be unprepared;
	Save every penny, nickel, dime—
	Lay by your frills and ribbons fine,
	Retrench from all that will not give
	Results to teach us how to live
	According to the counsels given
	By noble men inspired of Heaven.

	Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and all other efforts of our sisters to obey
counsel, I remain
	Your sister in the Gospel,
							I. V. H.


