MY DEAR AUNT EM:

	It is evening, Christmas 1876 will soon
be counted in the past—transformed by
time from an anticipation into a memory.
What kind of a Christmas have you had?
In the midst of friends and at home, an ex-
treme contrast to mine.
	My impression, heretofore of Pennsylva-
nia, has been taken from Luzerne Co., but
I am happy to say Lancaster is of a some-
what different character; there we were in
the midst of coal mines, iron works, pov-
erty and ruffianism; here among the farm-
ers and quakers in a delightful little town
eight miles from Lancaster city, the coun-
try is rolling, small hills, but no mountains,
and woods crown every summit nearly,
while rich farms lie between. The pros-
pect for converts is not any more encourag-
ing, though we will make a start at the
Town Hall on Sunday. Have made the ac-
quaintance of one prominent gentleman,
and Bro. Musser has nearly—well if not
converted, at least made an impression—or
as we term it, "wounded" him.
	The condition of the religious world is
deplorable in the extreme. All is mystery
and darkness to them—the devout portion
don't know what they worship, while the
others are lost in an apathy, a lethargy and
indifference which is alarming. It reminds
me of my own case while at home. How
careless I was in regard to my salvation—I
tell you Aunt Em, there is a reformation
needed among the boys and girls who
claim fellowship with God's people, I shud-
der to think of it. How many of us are
prepared for that great "day of the Lord
which cometh like a thief in the night,"
How many will be caught unawares and
lost because they would not reach out their
hands for the prize when it was near their
grasp. We must not think that the word
"Mormon" or the professing of Latter-day
Saint is going to save us. We will all be
judged by the deeds done here, and each
individual is responsible for himself. I
would to heaven I could impress the impor-
tance of this upon my dear friends and fel-
low associates at home—but no, they would
say "oh, he's got religious" all missionaries
talk that way, he'll change," etc. Yes,
this is partly so, but what makes all miss-
ionaries talk and think so? It is because
they live nearer to God, and are compelled
to rely on Him; they see what it really is
to be a saint, while the rest are blind, and
if they (missionaries) ever change after, as
is predicted, it is because they are again in
darkness, a true saint should always feel the
same whether at home or abroad, and be
ever ready to sacrifice anything and every-
thing for the faith.
	I don't care how much I am ridiculed and
sneered at, if I know I am on the Lord's
side, He holds the destinies of all men in
the hollow of His hand and could crush
them to atoms if He chose. I hope I never
will be as I have been again, in some things.
My ambition is to be a follower of Christ,
and to be a good and useful citizen in the
kingdom of God. It was a hard struggle
between my pride and duty—duty tri-
umphed for once at least. I have seen
enough of the world to become disgusted
with its corruption. It is ripe in wicked-
ness and were it not for the indifference of
His chosen people God would hurl his ven-
geance now—the final scene depends on
two conditions—that of the saints and that

[Column 2]
of the sinners. The latter are wicked
enough to be destroyed, but the former are
not good enough to be saved. How much
longer will we tempt God? How cool and
lukewarm we are! Many of us will be
caught as were the antedeluvians and the
Sodomites—not believing that the end is at
hand—But as God lives, it will come, and
then the woe, misery and remorse; "if I
only had" and "it might have been," will
be the echo of the unprepared, and it will
be a fearful scene. No one can realize but
under actual experience what the "beau
monde" is; I had an idea that all was splen-
dor outside, I thought to work my way up
the ladder of life and become famous and
wealthy, become a favorite everywhere,
and lead a life of gaiety and pleasure—a
change has "come o'er the spirit of my
dream"—It's all hollow, hollow, hollow!
"The kingdom of God, or nothing" shall
be my motto. I want to remain with the
Lord's people and am willing to make any
sacrifice for them and the great Latter-day
Cause.
	My friends will laugh at me perhaps, but
I am used to worse than that already, and
it will have no effect; oh, how I wish they
could all see these things. I have made
light of such myself, but I was wrong.
Paul was wrong when he persecuted the
apostles, and he became one himself after-
ward. It is never beneath any one to re-
pent of a fault.
	It is pride that does it all, that "never
failing vice of fools." The "Mormons"
like the true saints in all ages, are unpopu-
lar—it is not fashionable to serve God—
thats the whole thing condensed.
	I hope God will ever keep me faithful. I
can conceive nothing more terrible than the
doom of the apostate. "It had been better
ye had never received the faith, than to
turn from the holy commandments once
given" as Peter says in such effect—I don't
quote verbatim. This world is but a pre-
face to the great book of eternity. We
must lay up our treasures in heaven, where
moths do not corrupt nor thieves break
through and steal." How many of us will
meet each other there?
	I am too sleepy to write any more to-
night—Good night till morning.

						Dec. 26th.

	Aurora ushers in another day: a cloudy
one too, like the heads of many who awoke
this morning after the effects of Christmas
imbibations. This is an apt simile but not
a pleasant one, therefore a truce to the sub-
ject.
	What the programme for the day is, I do
not know yet. I suppose we will call on
Bro. Musser's relatives. One of them is a
Memnonite—this sect have for a basis the
command of Christ "if they smite ye on
one cheek turn the other, etc. If attacked
they would not feel justified in defending
themselves, but when Bro. Muss[-]r asked
this gentleman if he would su[-]mit to the
assassin or robber without any effort, he
said I don't think I would. What good
does it do to have a theory, and practice in
direct contradiction to it. They are all as
blind as bats. They take one principle of
the primitive gospel as a nucleus and sur-
round it and their votaries in a cloak of
mystery and supposition, hope and doubt.
And yet they boast of the spread of Chris-
tianity. There is a cord around the huge
neck of every so-called Christian denomina-
tion and Satan has a firm hold on the other
end and is leading them through mystery
further from the light of truth, deeper in-
to the darkness of perdition. The time

[Column 3]
foretold by Isaiah, Nephi, and other pro-
phets has come, the fulfillment is literal, and
it is a marvel that people who pretend to
believe in the Scriptures can not see it.
"Darkness shall cover the earth, and gross
darkness the minds of the people." From
the xiv to xiviii chapter of Revelations is a
subject, or reading matter, which all should
look over. On the 104th page, Chapt. 12,
Second, Nephi, Book of Mormon, is depict-
ed the exact state of the religious world of
to-day, in a prophecy uttered by Nephi to
his people. "For it shall come to pass in
that day that the churches which are built
up, and not unto the Lord, when the one
shall say unto the other, Behold! I am the
Lords; and the other will say, I am the
Lords. And they shall contend one with
another, and their priests shall contend one
with another, and they shall teach with
their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost,
which giveth utterance." etc etc.
	When I think of these things my heart is
filled with unspeakable gratitude to the
great good God who has granted me the
privilege of living in this age, and being
on the right road. The time is close at
hand when Zion will be the only safe place
where in to stand. Babylon is doomed and
all who leave and go out into her except on
God's errands will be buried with her in
her great fall.
	The curse of the Almighty is upon her
and is only withheld for a season. "Come
out of her my people, that ye be not par-
takers of her sins, and that ye receive not
of her plagues. For her sins have reached
unto heaven, and God hath remembered
iniquities." She must be thrown down
with violence even as a millstone cast into
the sea; this is why I have given up the
idea of leaving my home to become an in-
mate of the outside world. "Come out of
her" is the command, and I will not risk
my future salvation for the chance of a
name in the world.
	I may never return as it is,—No one can
tell how soon the cloud will burst and del-
uge all both saint and sinner. God has
said, though, "he who loseth his life for
my sake shall find it," and if it be His will
I am satisfiid. We must sacrifice every-
thing for Him who gave it all, and he who
holds back any let him beware and remem-
ber the fate of Annanias and Saphira.
	The prospect of another war is imminent.
It will not be as before, two great sides bat-
tling against one another, but it will be an
internecine conflict of family against fam-
ily, city against city, state against state.
The condition of the time shows plainly
how easy it would be for the Almighty to
fulfill all He has said. A crisis is impend-
ing. The world thinks it the result of nat-
ural events, and so it is, God works in that
way, He permits men to destroy them-
selves, and they are too blind to perceive
that they are fulfilling predictions to the
letter.
	As already said, the wicked are ready,
but the good are not, we must all reform.
Jesus says "Except ye be as this little
child, ye can not enter the kingdom of
heaven," how many of us are as meek and
pure as little children? Are we willing to
obey, are our minds as untainted as a little
child's? Without God's help it is nearly
impossible, but if we do our best God will
help us; He knows our weaknesses better
than we do and is ever ready to forgive.
	That we may ever bear these things in
mind and be prepared for the coming of
Jesus, is my prayer.
			Yours Affectionately,
							O. F. W.


