NOTES AND NEWS.

	CONGRESS RECEIVED on Tuesday, Jan. 2;
the staues of Adams and Winthrop, as
the gift of the State to the Pantheon in the
old Hall of Representatives at Washington.
	"HISTORY AND Description of the Cen-
tennial Exhibition.". In a very attractive
volume, Edward C. Bruce condenses a his-
tory of the late Centennial Exhibition; and
by the aid of pen and picture brings the
whole event before the reader in a living
panorama. It will be of great interest to
those who visited the Exposition.
	AS HAS been mentioned, the next Inter-
national Exhibition will be at Paris; con-
tracts for the buildings and other works are
already given out, and it is announced that
the opening will be on the 1st of May, 1878.
The Prince of Wales has authorized the
British amdassador at Paris to declare, in
his name, that he will send for exhibition
the fine collection of interesting and pre-
cious objects that he brought with him from
the East.
	TEMPORARY STARS are occasionally dis-
covered in the heavens which suddenly
flare up with intense brightness, remain
shining a while, and then dwindle down to
very small stars or disappear entirely. On
November 24 a brightly radiating star was
seen in the constellation of Cygnus by an
astronomer at the observatory in Athens,
Greece. On December 20 this new star was
found and examined at the Litchfield Ob-
servatory of Hamilton College. It was
then greatly reduced in size from what it
was when first seen. The most remarkable
temporary star on record is the Nova of
Tycho Brahe, that appeared in 1572 in Cas-
siopeia. It became bright as Venus, and
was even visible in the daytime. It could
be seen with the naked eye for seventeen
months.
	REFERENCE WAS made some time ago to
a plan for the fertilization of Africa, by the
submerging of the desert of Sahara through
a canal which would let in the waters of the
Mediterranean. This seems to have been
abandoned, as it was feared that very great
meteorological changes might be produced
thereby, which might be prejudicial. It is
now proposed to submerge a part of North
Africa by a canal from the Gulf of Gabes,
letting in the waters of the Mediterranean
westwards, over the lake region of Djerid;
and this scheme is said to be not only prac-
ticable, but likely to prove remunerative;
the area being comparatively small, and the
meteorological changes likely to be slight,
quite local, and beneficial.


