OBITUARIES.

	SARAH SMITH Griffin, daughter of Hyrum
and Gerusha Smith, died Nov. 6th, in Ogden
City, leaving an infant three weeks old and
four other children with her husband to mourn
her loss. She was born Oct. 2d. 1837, in Kirt-
land, Ohio. Her mother died when she was
only eleven days old, her father being at the
same time absent from home, in Missou[-]i at-
tending to business pertaining to the Church.
She removed with the rest of the family to
Missouri in 1838, and was driven with the
Saints back to Illinois early in 1840; shared in
the exodus from Nauvoo in the dead o[-] winter,
in 1846, and removed to Winter Q[-]arters.
She came to Utah in 1848.
	In Jan. 1854, she was married to Charles G.
Griffin; and removed to St. Thomas, on the
Muddy in its first settlement, where she endur-
ed much suffering from privations and hard-
ships, which she bore with great fortitude and
patience. On their return from that place the
family settled first in Coalville, from thence
they removed to Ogden City in 1873. She was


the mother of ten children, five had passed
away before, ready to meet her when her hap-
py spirit took its flight to the regions of the
blessed. As a wife she was kind and affection-
ate, a helpmeet in the fullest sense of the word;
as a mother, indulgent almost to the extreme;
as a friend she was true as steel. She was
truly benevolent beyond her means, often im-
parting to others that which she really needed
for herself, not wishing to let her left hand
know what her right hand did. She was natu-
rally of a retiring habit, humble and unassum-
ing so that but very few knew her real worth;
"those who knew her best, loved her most."
	We would not recall her to a suffering world
like this, but let her enjoy the society of her
mother, her martyred father and uncle, with
an almost incalculaole number of loving and
beloved frinds. Truly the memory of the just
is blessed.
								COM.

	DIED, in Santaquin, Nov. 18, 1876; Eva,
eldest daughter of Peter N., and Charity An-
derson, aged seventeen years, six months and
twenty days. She was an active memder of
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
and held the office of treasurer until her de-
mise. She was obedient and dutiful to her par-
ents, lived her religion truly and consistently,
and was beloved by all who knew her and her
absence is great[-]y felt by all her friends.
