A VOICE FROM AN ABSENT ONE.

The wintry day, now drawing to its close,
Invites all wearied nature to repose,
And shades of night are falling dense and fast,
Like sable curtains closing o'er the past.
Pale, through the gloom, the newly fallen snow
Lays like a shroud upon the earth below;
As though, in mercy, God had spread the p[-]ll—
A symbol of forgiveness to us all.
The flood of thought, which struggles to be free,
Now opens wide the gates of memory;
Love lights the way, and, guided by its beam,
My soul floats on the surface of the stream.
I cannot go to rest, but linger still
In meditation at the window sill,
While, like the twinkling stars in heaven's dome,
Come, one by one, sweet memories of home.
And wouldst thou ask me where my fancy roves
To reproduce the happy scenes it loves?
Where hope and memory together dwell,
And paint the pictured beauties that I tell?
Far, far away, among the Western hills
And gardens watered by the mountain rills:
Where giant peaks uprear their heads so high
The cloud capped-summits seem to pierce the sky;
Where smiling valleys, from the desert torn,
Redeemed, are waving with their golden corn;
Where virtue, truth and innocence, allied,
Are held in veneration—far and wide;
Where sweet religion in its purity
Invites all men to its security:
There is my home—the spot I love so well—
Whose modest worth and beauty few can tell—
Away beyond the prairies of the West,
Where exiled saints, in solitude, were blessed;
Where industry the seal of wealth has set
Amit the peaceful vales of Deseret.
Unheeding still, the fiercest blasts that blow—
With tops encrusted by eternal snow—
The peaks, with bases set on rock-bound sod,
Stand, types of freedom, reared by nature's God.
The winter snows melt, part, in summer's beams,
And from the canyons rush the crystal streams—
Our God protects the church of His first born—
And winds are tempered to the lamb that's shorn—
Divinity the bounteous means supplies
A desert to reclaim and fertilize.
Throughout this place, for nine and twenty years,—
Since, first, the little band of pioneers
Explored the waste, and opened up the way
For those who followed at a later day—
Have lived a people, honest, firm and g[-]o[-];
Who, by their mighty faith in God, withstood
The wrath of man and nature, in a cause
Which comprehended His eternal laws.
The wilderness that naught, before, could yield,
Is now become a fertile, fruitful field:
Where roamed at will the savage Indian bands,
In pride and wealth a peaceful city stands.
All men who seek the truth are welcome there;
All followers of Christ their bounty share;
And all, who cast base prejudice away
And let impartial judgment bear the sway,
Will find a virtuous people, falsified
To whom a freeman's just right is denied. 'I
Sweet Mountain Home! The refuge of the world—
Though persecution's rage is at thee hurled,
Thou shalt stand firm, for God in thy defense,
Will waste thy foes with war and pestilence.
This is His promise—will He break it? No,
We've proved Him oft, and know it must be so.
Then be we brave as lions—meek as doves—
For such our Father, in His wisdom, loves.
Heed not the slander of the evil tongue,
Nor doubt, the hand of God is o'er us hung.
Has He not said—"The weak of earth I take
The power of the worldly wise to shake?"
And has he not, in many scenes now past,
Proved that he will be with us to the last?
Then let each simple daily action prove
That we are striving to deserve His love.
"Feed and clothe the poor, comfort those who mourn"
And heal the wounded heart by sorrow torn,
Keep His commandments—to all men be true,
"Do unto others as we'd have them do;"
And let our faith and trust unaltered to
In God—through time and all eternity.
									O. F. W


"AM you familiar wid de Talmud?" asked
a literary African of a sable brother; to
which the latter responded, "De tall mud?"
"Yes, sah, to de tallest kind ob mud. I'm
a native of New York and to de mud and
manner born."


[Column 1]
