				TOOELE, Jan. 5, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We wish to say a few words to our sisters
through your columns, to let them know
how we are prospering, and if possible to
give some poor encouragement to others
who are trying to walk in the same narrow
path. We opened our new Hall on the 22d
of December, to help defray some of the
building expenses, and I can say our party
was quite a success. We partook of supper
prepared by the several sisters in the school-
house opposite the new Hall; about seventy
sat down to the tables which were luxuri-
antly supplied with the good things of the
earth. A good spirit and feeling prevailed
throughout the entertainment; those who
participated in the dance enjoyed it ex-
ceedingly, and harmony and union charac-
terized the assembly. The sisters in every
ward donated liberally in the way of provi-
sions and delicacies, and there was an abun-
dance left to distribute among the poor and
also to the poor Indians, who have not yet
learned the art of cultivating the soil, and
supplying themselves with the comforts
they see us enjoying. Nothing was lost or

[Column 2]

wasted, and a great deal of good must be
the result of such gatherings.
	On the 25th another party was given for
the same purpose, viz., to receive means to
help defray expenses of the building of
the Hall. The sisters of the Relief Society
are alive to their duties; we have some-
thing near one hundred bushels of wheat
laid up for a future day, for those emergen-
cies which have been predicted. We feel
thankful for the knowledge given us through
inspiration, that we may prepare ourselves
and thus escape some of the many calam-
ities which will transpire in the last dispen-
sation. We meet every two weeks in the
new meeting house, when we enjoy the
Spirit of the Lord, and those who attend
regularly feel desirous to do all in their
power to help roll on the work of redemp-
tion. Our President, Sister Micklejohn, is
earnest in exhorting the sisters to become
united and live their religion to its truest
sense and spirit. Your excellent paper is
read with great interest, and the best
wishes are expressed for the advancement
of every good work.
	We remain your sisters &c.,
		EMILY WARBURTON, Sec'y.
			ANN YATE, Ass't Sec'y.

