	TO THE SUNDAY SCHOOLS OF AMERICA.

	We are sometimes told that total absti-
nence is not temperance. What is tem-
perance? Let me give you a short reply.
Temperance is the lawful gratification of a
natural appetite. Is the appetite for intox-
icating liquors a natural appetite? No.
Therefore temperance is total abstinence
from intoxicating liquors as a beverage.
	This principle is a sensible principle.
When you are as old as I am, you will re-
gret many things you have learned in the
past; but you will never regret that you
did not learn to use intoxicating liquor. I
have never met a person, nor do I believe
you can find the person in the world who
would say, "I am fifty years of age, and
never drank a glass of liquor in my life;
and I regret that I did not learn to drink it
when I was young." No. When you meet
with one who has never drank, he tells you,
"I am glad of it," or, "I am proud of it."
A man once called on me, and said; "I am
not a reformer. I care little for reforms, or
missions, or Sunday schools. They are all
very well in their way, but they are not in
my line. I have been an actor since I was
eighteen, and I am now forty-three, and I
never drank a glass of ale, wine or spirits in
my life. What do you think of that?" I
am pooud of it. He had little care for re-
form, but he never drank liquor in his life,
and was proud of it.
	Dear children, you would be shocked if
you could read some of the letters that lie
in my desk, and that have been written to
me by persons of all grades of society—
young men, old men, lawyers, physicians,
ministers of the Gospel, teachers, mechan-
ics, clerks, and some ladies—who have ac-
quired the appetite for strong drink. One
says, "Dives in hell never longed for a drop
of water, as with all the power there is in
me I long for drink." Another says, "Is
there any hope for me this side of the
grave?" Another says, "God knows how
near I have been to self destruction through
drink," and so on.
	One poor man, actually holding my feet,
cried out, "O! help me out of this hell,
Drink is my curse." Yes, dear children,
the cry comes from the inmates of the lu-
natic asylums, "Drink is my curse;" from
the state prisons, "Drink is my curse;"
from innocent victims—wives, mothers,
children, "Drink is my curse;" from the
burning lips of the dying drunkard comes
the despairing cry, "Drink is my curse."
There are broken hearts, blighted hopes,
blackened characters, crushed intellects,
and lost souls as the results of strong drink,
and not a single individual but rejoices in
his escape from it.
	Is not the total abstinence principle sen-
sible? "But all who drink do not become
drunkards." I know that; but if fifty
young men begin to drink, some will assur-
edly be rnined by it. Then there is a risk.
Now we all desire safety and security.
Suppose you desire to travel from New
York to Chicago, and there were two lines
of road—one on which there were accidents
constantly occurring; on every train some
disaster, passengers killed and wounded; in
short, a very risky road;—and on the other,
never since its opening had there been the
slightest accident. Which road would you
take? If you are sensible, and regard your
own welfare, you would take the safe one.
Suppose some one should tempt you to take
the risky road, by telling you how much
more beautiful the cars were, and what a

[Column 2]
jolly company you would find on board the
train. You would say, "I care not so much
for the gaudy cars and jolly company as for
my safety. I want to be safe." Now it is
your safety we seek, when we urge you to
abstain entirely from strong drink. There
is no certainty that you will become vic-
tims if you begin to indulge, but there is a
risk.
	Some say, "I can govern myself; I have a
mind of my own." What would you think
of a captain of a steam vessel who would
put on a full head of steam, and then knock
down the man at the wheel? Or, of a con-
ductor on a railroad, who would let on the
steam and then disable the engineer? You
would say he was a reckless man. The
steamer or the engine might get through
without accident, but it might go crashing
to destruction. So when a person, using
that which weakens the power of his will,
depends on his weakened will to serve him,
—using that which warps his judgment,
and then depends on his warped judge-
ment to guide him,—using that which af-
fects his self-control, and then trusts his de-
ranged self-control to keep him from dan-
ger—he is reckless. Simply because some
men drink and do not become drunkards,
can you? I once saw a man stand on
a small platform outside the spire of a
church, and looked down on the pavement
150 feet below. Because he did it, can you?
Think of these things before you run the
risk, ank remember what the risk is.
	You have, under God, the future in your
power; your destiny in your own control.
Remember there is no one evil in the world
before which so many fall, as the evil of in-
temperance.
	I most earnestly desire that the youth of
our country, especially our Sabbath-school
scholars, shall give all their influence
against this great evil. May God help you
to avoid the perils in life's journey, and the
traps that are set for your feet, so that from
your place of safety you may reach out
your hand to help the tempted who are
sturggling in their chains, and may by self-
denial be enabled to "fulfill the law of 
Christ," by helping some poor, burdened
souls into the higher life of purity and
freedom!—Messenger of Peace.


