[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: A BRIEF SKETCH OF HER LIFE AND | Author: Unknown]

A BRIEF SKETCH OF HER LIFE AND
LABORS.
	ON the 31st day of January, yester-
day, Sister Zina D. H. Young reached
the age of seventy-five years. “Aunt
Zina,” as the Latter-day Saints love to call
her, was born January 31, 1821, in Water-
town, Jefferson county, New York, and
comes of goodly parentage. Her father
was William Huntington, her mother Zina
Baker, whose father was one of the first
physicians in New Hampshire. Her mater-
nal grandmother was Dorcas Dimock,
“descended from the noble family of Dim-
ocks whose representatives held the heredi-
tary knight-championship of England;
instance: (Sir Edward Dymock, Queen
Elizabeth’s champion).” Mrs Young’s father
served in the war of 1812; Samuel Hunting-
ton, one of the signers of the Declaration of
Independence, was the uncle of her grand-
father, Wm. Huntington, a revolutionary
soldier. The family were directly descend-
ed from Simon Huntington, the Puritan
emigrant, who sailed for America in 1633,
but died at sea leaving three sons and a
widow, who were registered in Roxbury,
Mass. Wm Huntington, the grandfather,
married Presendia Lathrop, and was one of
the first settlers in the Black River valley,
northern New York.
	The Hu[-]tingtons embraced the gospel at
Watertown, New York and Zina Diantha
was baptized by Patriarch Hyrum Smith
August 14, 1835, and soon after went to-
Kirtland with her father’s family. In Kirt-
land she received many blessings and mani-
festations, the gift of tongues, and of
interpretation; she heard an invisible choir
of angels singing in the Kirtland Temple,
and was present at the memorable Pentecost
when the spirit of God filled the Temple,
like a mighty rushing wind. Sister Zina
was a member of the Kirtland Temple choir.
	With her father’s family Sister Zina
passed through the terrible persecutions in
Missouri of which there is not time to tell.

[Column 2]
	Like many other exiles they succeeded in
reaching Commerce, afterwards called Nau-
voo, where the Saints suffered so much.
	At this place Sister Huntington, the mo-
ther, died, a martyr to suffering from the
mobbings and drivings.
	In Nauvoo Sister Zina became a member
of the first Relief Society organization, little
dreaming what would be in the future, and
how great the work would become. When
the Nauvoo Temple was ready for ordinan-
ces she received her blessings and endow-
ments therein.
	She left Nauvoo with the Saints in the
month of February, 1846, with the first
company, crossing the Mississippi river on
the ice. Arriving at Mt. Pisgah, where the
exiles stopped and made a resting place, her
father was taken sick and died. She re-
mained in Winter Quarters on the Missouri
river, until 1848, when she started for the
valley; beginning the journey in May,
reached the valley in September.
	When the Relief Society was established
in Utah, Sister Zina was chosen as treasurer
of the first society in the Eighteenth ward,
where she resided. Some years after, when
Sister Eliza R. Snow was called by Presi-
dent Brigham Young to assist in organiz-
ing in wards, Sister Zina was also called
by the President as Counselor to Sister Eliza,
and she was associated with her in the la-
bors of the Relief Society and traveled in its
interest during Sister Eliza’s lifetime.
	In the silk industry Sister Zina has been
indefatigable and zealous, laboring as no
other woman in this Territory has done, to
establish sericulture. she has raised co-
coons herself, and had charge of President
Young’s large cocoonery and mulberry
orchard. In June, 1876, when a silk
association was organized Sister Zina was
elected President, and she has traveled the
length and breadth of the Territory in its
interest.
	Sister Zina also took a course of medical
studies under Dr. Willard Richards in the
early days in the valley, and became familiar
with the practice among women, and has
given numerous lectures on the subject of
nursing, hygiene and other kindred topics.
	She has traveled as extensively among
the people and spoken as many times as any
other woman and perhaps even more. She
has a rare faculty of ministering to the sick
and sorrowing, and is often alluded to as
“Aunt Zina the Comforter;” having such
intense sympathy, added to the gift of heal-
ing, which she seems naturally to possess.
	Her presence in the sick room is always
soothing aud uplifting to the afflicted.
	Sister Zina is an inspirational impromptu
speaker; her speeches, in mass meetings a[-]d
and on various great occasions, have been
widely circulated by newspaper reporters.
	She holds her audience without an effort
by her natural eloquenoe.
	In 1879 she visited the Sandwich Islands.
During this trip she met many noted people.
The same fall she accompanied Sister Eliza
to St. George. There they labored in the
Temple, and among the sisters’organiza-
tions, held meetings, traveled over a thou-
sand miles, often camping out over night.


[Column 1]
In 1881 she visited relatives in New York
and Vermont and collected genealogical
records of her ancestry; and while away
often spoke in Sunday schools and temper-
ance meetings, and conversed with many
celebrated divines; attended the Woman’s
congress at Buffalo and a National Suffrage
Convention in New York city. Sister Zina
also assisted the Elders in organizing a
Relief Society at Cohoes, New York, dur-
ing that visit.
	In 1882, when the Deseret Hospital was
established, Sister Zina was chosen vice
president, and occupied the arduous position
for twelve years; the same year she attend-
ed the National Suffrage Convention in
Omaha, and visited relatives in St. Joseph,
Mo. At this convention she made the ac-
quaintance of several celebrated women,
May Wright Sewall, Phoebe Cousins, and
others, also Susan B. Anthony, whom she
had already met here on her first visit to
Utah in 1870, and afterwards in New
York. Sister Zina has continued her labors
among the people and in the house of the
Lord without ceasing year after year, and
thousands rise up and call her blessed. She
was for thirty years and even more, a dili-
gent Sunday school teacher.
	After the decease of Sister Eliza R. Snow
in December 1887, Sister Zina being her
first counselor, continued acting president
until April, 1888, when she was called by
President Wilford Woodruff and set apart
to preside over the Relief Society. In 1891,
the Relief Society became formally connect-
ed with the National Council of Women of
the United States, which entitles the presi-
dent to the position of vice-president in this
great council. In 1893, when the congress
of representative women from all the world
met in the Art Palace in Chicago at the
time of the World’s Fair, Mrs. Young was
present and had the privilege and the right
of taking part in the important proceedings.
She also held a meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety in one of the halls of the Art Palace,
which attracted much attention. At this
meeting Isabella Beecher Hooker, Elizabeth
Lisle Saxon and other celebrities were pre-
sent, and some of them requested the privi-
lege of speaking. On the Sunday follow-
ing at the services in the large hall, Mrs.
Young was seated upon the platform with
fourteen women ministers of different de-
nominations, conversing freely with them
after the service upon the principles of
our faith. She also attended the Congress of
Charities and Philanthropies, of which she is
vice-president. Mrs. Young’s labors have
been unceasing and though she has reached
such a great age, her usefulness is not dim-
nished, but increases as the field of her
labors widens out, and develops more and
more. Her entire time is given in the ser-
vice of the Lord, in the duties of her calling
in the Relief Society and to the ministra-
tions in the Temple, where she has been
called to preside over the sisters—a long and
a beautiful life, of which scarcely the bare
outlines are given here. Sister Zina is de-
cidedly, a woman of the people, beloved by
the Saints for her many excellent qualities,
her integrity to the Gospel and her abundant
charity.
	We have only spoken of Sister Zina here
as a public woman in the capacity of a
missionary laboring among the sisters, but
her home life has been equally exemplary
and successful. She is tender and motherly
in her nature, and though she has not had a
large family of her own (two sons and a

[Column 2]
daughter) she has several children who call
her mother, now grown to manhood and
womanhood, to whom she has given the
same loving attention as to her own, and
who love and reverence her in return as do
her own.
	Sister Zina became the wife of the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo, and after his
death was married to Brigham Young. It
is impossible to enter into details in a news-
paper article. Volumes might be written
of Sister Zina—her name has gone far and
wide, and she is known everywhere for her
good works; no woman in the Church is
better known or more highly respected, and
not only at home but abroad, she is appro-
priately designated a mother in Isreal, which
she is in very deed. E. B. W.


IC 6			WOMAN’S EXPONENT


