[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

[Continued.]
	When I was a girl we knew exactly
what the Lord created women for;
they were to take care of the household, at-
tend to the cooking etc. that was the cus-
tomary work of women. In fact as far as
cooking was concerned we believed it to be
our sphere, but you look out on the world
to day, who are the cooks from one end of
our nation to the other, there is not a wo-
man cook anywhere; the hotels, restaurants
and in the homes of the wealthy all are
men. Why is it? Let me give you a
receipt by which you can always tell.
	Whenever you pay a dollar and a half a
week for anything that is woman’s sphere,
always woman’s sphere no matter what it
is; but to day we pay to cooks from one to
ten thousand dollars a year. Some of the
cooks receive exactly the same salary as the
President of Harvard University. Now
when you pay from one to ten thousand
dollars a year for any kind of service that
is man’s work and the reason why men are
cooking to-day is not because it is man’s
work anymore than it is woman’s work, it
is because it pays, that is all; and wherever
work pays there you find men. Women in
that sphere are always called cooks but you
could not insult a man more than to call
him a cook, he is a Professor of the Culinary
art; one is a woman and the other is a man.
(Laughter.) When I wa[-] a girl the dining-

[Column 2]
room girls were women, but to-day the
table girls are no longer girls, they are six
feet high and two feet broad dressed in
swallow-tailed coats. (Laughter.) To-day
the washer women have no place, they are
all men. When I was in the office of an
eastern laundry not very long ago I saw a
picture hanging on the wall and I counted
the number of persons on the picture and
there were seven women and two hundred
men. It was a group picture of a conven-
tion of the Laundrymen’s Association. So
you see when men take to washing for a
living they are so proud of it that they have
to have their pictures taken; you never heard
of a washerwoman having her picture taken.
	Then again, Dressmaking used to be a
very good employment for women when I
was young, but to-day in every city in the
world the leading Dressmakers are all men
and a woman will not be able to decide
what she shall do until a man over in Paris
settles it for her. If he says all skirts
should be made with godets and bias, why
godets it is and men dressmakers are ex-
cellent. I never had any experience with
a man dressmaker until this last spring and
then I had two gowns made by a man
dressmaker and I will say it is divine, it is
lovely because he will let you have pockets.
	The gown I have on was made by a man
dressmaker and one thing I do need is a
pocket. I have gone to the dressmaker
with the utmost fear in my soul, please
may I be permitted to have a pocket? And
then the dressmaker would look at me in
snch a superior manner and say: “There is
no place for a pocket.” When I said to
this man dressmaker, “Please may I have
a pocket”? He said “Yes.” I took cour-
age and said: “May I have two?” He
said; “As many as you wish.” and I said;
“If I can have three.” So I have three
pockets in my gown and I have quite a time
hunting things for I put something in each
pocket.
	Not only are all the dressmakers of the
country men to-day, but the milliners of the
country are all men. I have a friend who
has a very large millinery establishment
and he has twenty trimmers—not a woman
in the store, and if there is anything comic-
al it is to see a man weighing 350 pounds
trimming a tiny bit of a bonnet and using
his fist for a model. So gentlemen, I
would like to ask you where is our sphere?
	You’ve got it. (Laughter.) We are not
complaining about it, there is not a
woman of us has found any fault, I believe
a man has as much right to be a washer-
woman as a woman has. We women are
not complaining. Why should you men
feel that the moment a woman does any-
thing that women always have done, and
men have not done when it is remunerative
employment that she is out of her sphere.
	If there is anything in my sphere that a
man wants even if it is my washtub he can
have it.
	Take the world altogether my belief of
the future is this, that when men and
women are free and the boys and girls stand
on the border of life side by side in the
same home where God puts them and look
out into the great world of progress, I hope
the time will come when we can say to the
girl child as well as the boy child, “God
has given you powers go out and develop
them, and wherever your heart leads follow
on the work of the world’s redemption as
your work as well as the work of your
brothers, and I believe the best work will


[Column 1]
never be done by men alone or by women
alone and it will never be done until men
and women are free to do the best that God
has made it possible for them to do. We
don’t want men to divide their powers with
us but we do want men to give up our
power which they have taken away from
us. You might as well say if a man with
an extinguished torch had asked a lawyer to
permit him to light his torch by his, that it
would be dividing his light, not only would
it be doubling his light but the light that
the other had taken from him. I see your
good friend Mr. Roberts states it will be
but doubling the vote. I do not think Mr.
Roberts would care very much or be very
sorry if it should double his party vote.
(Applause.) And isn’t it so astonishing
that men do so hate to have women double
their vote and they will fairly go on their
knees to buy out men to double their vote.
(Laughter.)
	Now if it be true that women would help
the most vicious element of society why
does the vicious element of society oppose
woman’s suffrage. Go where you will you
will find the most ignorant and vicious class
of people opposed to woman’s suffrage.
	I would risk my reputation as a prophet
by declaring the largest vote for Woman
Suffrage would be where there was the
greatest intelligence and the largest vote
against it would be where there was least
intelligence. In the state of Kansas at the
last election it was this way and the heavi-
est vote cast against it was by the liquor
league of the state and next to the liquor
men it was the negroes of the state the men
for whom the women of this country sacri-
ficed so much, the men without the women
of this country could never have been freed
the men who were freed because a woman
loving humanity as well as loving one’s
child, sat by the cradle of her baby boy
while she rocked the cradle with her foot
used her hands to write Uncle Tom’s Cabin
and send it out on the wings of freedom
and the seed of liberty was planted in the
hearts of our countrymen. I believe that
Abraham Lincoln would never have been
able to sign the Emancipation Proclamation
had it not been that Uncle Tom’s Cabin
went out before and paved the way in the
hearts of American men and women, (ap-
plause.) And yet these men who won their
freedom by the sacrifice of women were the
men who cast the largest vote against Wo-
man’s Suffrage. It is what slavery always
produces, those who have been slaves when
they have the power to act become tyranni-
cal masters. During the slavery days of
the South there was no overseer as cruel as
the negro when he was made overseer over
other negroes and such is the curse of
slavery that it quenches the impulse for free-
dom in the heart of the slave; and when-
ever I see a woman to-day opposing wo-
man’s enfranchisement that is the result of
the slavery of women belonging to the
centuries of the past; all these years there
has been dawning in her soul no conscious-
ness of the birthright of freedom, and she is
willing to be a subject. Why? Because
she believes in her very abject condition
she can obtain concession whic she could
not obtain as a free woman and the marvel
to me is that so many women are asking
for freedom. And when good men say to
me just as soon as a majority of the women
are in favor of it I will vote for it, of course
know it is not so and of course I know
that they make that excuse. Now we hear

[Column 2]
of two men voting against this measure.
One will say I asked my wife and I voted
as she wanted me. When he makes up his
mind to vote against it he says my wife
wanted me to vote against it. But he does
not vote for it because his wife wants him
to vote for it. Now a man who votes
against it alwaye votes as his wife wants
him to, and when he votes in favor of it he
votes because his wife has no better judg-
ment. It is like the old.
‘you’ll be damned if you do, you’ll be damned
if you won’t and you’ll be damned if you
don’t and you’ll be damned anyway. It is
always the fault of the women somehow or
another. Just as long as we want the ballot
the men are dying to give it to us; they
don’t want to compel us to vote. They said
as soon as you bring in a petition showing
a majority of women in favor of suffrage,
we will grant your petition. So we wo-
men went out and got five thousand names
but they said that is not enough so the
next year we got ten thousand names
the next year we got twenty thousand
names they said “you are doing fine keep
right on” so the next year we went in
with fifty thousand names and they said:
“now ladies, that is very good but we
don’t know you want it yet but just as
soon as we know—and that is the way
they do it. Miss Anthony went to Mr.
Dana, the editor of the New York Sun,
and asked him to use his influence in be-
half of suffrage and he said: “My paper
is used in the interest of the people and
the people don’t want suffrage.” And Miss
Anthony said: “How do you know the
women don’t want suffrage?” She said
“How many women will have to ask for
it?” And he said he thought if 100,000
women asked for it, it would be sufficient,
but he said he didn’t think it was possi-
ble to get the names of 100,000 women in
the State of New York. Miss Anthony
said, if we only have time we will bring
in a million names. Mr. Dana simply
laughed and said: “Miss Anthony when
you bring in 100,000 names the Sun is
yours. So Miss Anthony went to work
and secured the names of 300,000 women
and enough names of men to make over
700,000, and 300,000 and more of them
were women, and when the Constitutional
Convention defeated Woman’s Suffrage
what do you suppose Mr. Dana had for an
editorial the next morning? It was headed
“When will the women of New York
vote?” and then the next paragraph read—
“Just as soon as they want to.” and Mr.
Dana went right back to that same old
chesnut, when the women want to vote
the men will readily grant them the ballot.
Mr. Dana knew he would not do it—
he knew he would give some excuse and
let it go. But we quarrel we women among
ourselves—we have nothing else to do.
if you will give us the ballot or some
interest in the question of silver and tariff
we will have something better to do. I
believe one of your good gentlemen said the
Board of Lady Managers at the World’s
Fair quarreled, but I don’t believe they
threw one of the women out of the window.
We do not deny the men ought not to vote
because the Men Managers quarreled and
they threw one of their own number through
the window. (Laughter.) Did we say the
men ought not to vote because two members
of the city Council of the City of Denver
had a pitched fight. Did we say the men
ought not to vote because the Governor of

[Column 3]
Arkansas wishing to chastise one of the
members of the Legislature expectorated in
his face. Because two members of the house
of Congress last winter thought they were
in a prize ring and flew at each other and it
took all the other members of congress to
hold on to their coat tails to keep them
apart, did we say men ought not to vote?
And did not some such occurrence occur in
the British Parliment not long ago. And
yet the men who did not engage in such
disgraceful scenes ought not to be disfran-
chised on account of them. Now why can’t
you have the same kind of charity for us.
Miss Anthony never had any fight with
anybody, and I don’t know that I have
ever had any.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


