[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, Dec.
28th, 1895. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Sister Frances Smith. Singing,
“Guide Us O, Thou Great Jehovah.”
The minutes of the previous meeting were
read and accepted.
	President Horne said she felt very thank-
ful to be here with her sisters at the close of
another year, said there were enough here
to claim the blessing, “That where a few 
are met together in my name there will I be
also.” Many have come here today for a
blessing and felt that each one would re-
ceive the comfort she needed. Exhorted
her sisters if any one had feelings against
another not to let it have place in her
heart, but let them all die with the old
year and commence again anew with the
new year. Would like to have all her
sisters read, Christ's sermon on the Mount
often. Pray continually for the Spirit of
God for that led into all truth; do not let
your talents lie dormant but seek them out,
referred to President Cannon’s sermon on
the same subject.  Spoke of obedience of
children to parents also obedience to the
Gospel; said teach children self sacrifice;
good Latter-day Saints were self-sacrificing:
felt we were in a more dangerous condition
now than ever before and that there were
more temptations abroad for the young;
spoke of virtue, said she heard President
Cannon say he did not believe in long
courtships for young people. Spoke of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his wonderful 
work all accomplished in fourteen years.
His life was not one of peace but of turmoil,
spoke of her association with him.  Bore a
strong testimony. Prayed the Lord to
bless us and help us to do better in the
coming year.
	Sister Cutler, said she wanted to bear
her testimony to the goodness of God: also
that He heard and answered prayer. Said
she went to the dedication of the Temple
fasting and everything she asked the Lord
for that day had been given to her four-
fold.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said she came here
today rather hungry for a blessing and felt
sure she would receive it; she never en-
joyed a meeting more in her life than she
did the conference here two weeks ago, did
not know why unless it was that she felt
free from all responsibility and could settle
down for pure enjoyment. She loved to
hear her sisters testify of their association
with the prophets; the dearest thing on
earth to her was her association with her
aged sisters, those who had done so much
good and had had so much experience, felt
she ought to be a great deal better than she
was; spoke very beautifully of her friend-
ship with Sisters Marinda N. Hyde and S.
M. Heywood who had passed behind the
vail and of their noble lives and the
example they set. Said we could not be
thankful enough for the Gospel, felt there

[Column 2]
was a great responsibility on the saints, al-
so that this was truly a time of trial for us,
knew Satan was not dead, felt that we
should ever be on the alert. Exhorted the
sisters to be charitable and each morning
before leaving our room ask God for His
Holy Spirit and for the help we need this
day: scan ourselves and never be above
asking one another’s forgivness if we have
done wrong, for then we could ask God to
forgive us: felt the coming year was full of
trials that we little knew of: we must be
humble and always try and say, “O God
Thy will, not mine, be done.” Prayed
that at the close of 1896 we might feel we
had served the Lord better than the year
before, closed by asking God to bless us all.
	Sister M. O. Brown felt glad of the
record she had made in the Temple this
year. When we could learn to listen to the
still small voice we were blest, we must
live near the Lord, said she never forgot
the sisters nor these meetings: hoped she
would be able to make a greater record in
the Temple this coming year than she had
in the last. Asked God’s blessing upon
us.
	Sister Elizabeth McCune said she had
not been identified with the Relief Society
until the last two months, had been more
with the young ladies: told of a, blessing
she had wherein it was prophecied she
should do a great Relief Society work.
Soon after this she was made Treasurer in
the Relief Society of the Seventeenth
Ward. The next Saturday she came to
these meetings and never enjoyed a meeting
so much. Felt she had missed a great deal
by not attending them before; thought it
would be a good idea to bring a pencil and
paper and jot down some of the words and
ideas of our dearly beloved sisters, Aunt
Zina, Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Horne,
for they were indeed gems and we would
not always have them with us: related a
dream she had; felt she had done better
in the last year than ever before, she felt
well and wanted to do do a great deal bet-
ter in the next. Sister Martha Barrow felt
she had always done the best she could,
had been in the church many years: God
had blessed her with good sons and
daughters. Her son had just come home
from a mission, felt very proud of him and
highly honored. Knew God would and
did bless the missionaries and kept them
from harm and temptation, bore a strong
testimony.
	A sister felt glad she was numbered with
the people of God, bore her testimony. 
	Sister Julia Sampson said the spirit
prompted her to add her testimony to the
others. She thanked her Heavenly Father
for the strength He had given her to enable
her to pass through her trials. Spoke of
the meeting one year ago, also of the sister
who spoke in tongues on that occasion
said there was much we could learn from
one another. We could not be happy in
the eternal world without our children. If
children go astray they will have to pay
the penalty. Hoped we would all have a
happy New Year and that God would give
us those things which would be best for
us.
	Sister Sophia Nuttall spoke of the effort
it was for her to speak, had been told in a
blessing that she should do this, felt this
was a trying time for the young and that it
would require all our strength to save
them: knew our labors would increase but
if we had patience and humility God


would give us the strength and help we
needed. Asked the Lord to bless us.
	Sister M. A. Hardy said she had made a
great effort to come here today, remembered
the meeting one year ago, also the sisters
who spoke in tongues. The desire of her
heart was to go to the Temple this winter;
prayed the Lord would open her way so she
could do so.
	Sister Brown spoke of the goodness of
the Lord to her, said each year she tried to
do better than the last, bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt thankful to 
see some new faces today: said we should
treasure the gems spoken by our aged 
sisters also their testimonies and 
recollections of the Prophet. We should be
a very thankful people, she had done the 
best she could in the past year but wanted 
to try and improve: said the fathers should
do their part in teaching and training the
children, thought parents should never
have differences before their children.
Prayed God to bless us all in the coming
year.
	Sister Jane James said she had lived in
the Prophet’s family: could not express
what a great man he was; she had many
trials and asked the sisters all to pray for
her. 
	Sister Horne made some closing remarks. 
The fathers could not come down to the
capacity of the children as the mothers
could: what children learned in their youth
they always remembered. When they
come home from Sunday School and
Primary, parents should ask them what
they have learned. Prayed we might al-
ways have the Spirit of the Lord to help
us bear our trials. Singing, “Lord dis-
miss us,” etc. Benediction by Sister J.
C.Howe.
			ZINA HYDE, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1] 
