[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A. | Author: Unknown]

CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.

	Although my mind is simply teeming
with the work of this last year I think I
have told you enough, but the Colorado
women are in politics and they mean to stay
and the men like to have them although
some of them don’t, but they are not the
best men I assure you, and we prize the
ballot more and more. It has been said
that giving woman the ballot will simply
double the vote, that all women will vote
just as their husbands do or if they don’t
they will fight. I don’t vote as my hus-
band does. This is the twentieth year of
our married life and while he has been a
Republican and I have been a Democrat it
has not created any dissension between us;
he is perfectly delighted to hear my views,
it is variety that gives the spice to life, and
gives self respect to each of them. Yes,
the Democratic wife of a Republican hus-
band went all about the State and stumped
the State for the party to which her hus-
band was opposed. So I think that speaks
well for the husband. Miss Shaw is going
to speak to you now. I give to you women
of Utah the right hand of fellowship from
the women of Colorado, and I assure you
that as the days go by you will find the suf-
frage conferred upon you the most beautiful,
the most delightful and the most gratifying,
that your children will look upon you with
a great deal more respect because they will
realize that you have the same rights that
their fathers have, and I hope that our wo-
men will not vote just exactly as their hus
bands do. You know the children of a
Democratic mother and a Republican father
never can grow up thinking that all the
political wisdom in the world is found in
one particular party—they will, realize that 
it is divided up pretty equally, and honest
men and honest women may be divided in
politics if they will only remain loyal to
the declaration of Independence, loyal to
the stars and stripes and loyal to the Con-
stitution of the United States and the
magnificent expression of the power that
makes right and justice, which is embodied
in this glorious democratic—republican
government. (Applause.) 
	Miss Anthony: I will introduce to you
the Vice-president at large of a still larger 
Association than our Suffrage Association
and that is the Vice-president at large of
the National Council of Women of the
United States which has held its second
triennial council in the City of Washing-
ton and which three years from now will
hold its third triennial council and that
council consists not only of the Suffrage
Society but it consists of nineteen other
national organizations of this country; wo-
men organized for one and another great 
purpose, and as you have always heard it
said that you have never heard of any class
of women organizing for any other than a

[Column 2]
good purpose and I am proud always to
present as my first Lieutenant Miss Anna
Shaw. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MISS ANNA SHAW.
	You know whenever women undertake
to do anything everybody has not always
wanted to do the first thing they say is, we
are getting out of our sphere. We have
heard that so long that some of us are not
the least bit frightened by it. Then if that
doesn’t frighten us to death they shout
“You are strong minded!” And we come
to feel since there are only two classes of
people the strong and the weak minded
people, we prefer to be classed with 
the strong minded (laughter.) Then the next
shot that is made is “You are a set of
Infidels!” If there is nothing else that
will kill you that will sure. Miss Anthony
during the New York campaign wanted to
impress upon the people that we were not,
and to make it strong she always brought
me up as a type of a strong orthodox back-
ing up the movement; so one day she
wanted to make a good impression and she
said “Now I have the pleasure of introduc-
ing to you an ordained minister and an or-
dained minister of the Methodist Church,
Rev. Anna Shaw who is my right bower,
(applause) and you can fancy the impres-
sion she gave on that orthodox community,
and the only person in that orthodox com-
munity who didn't know what a right 
bower was, was Miss Anthony (applause)
(laughter) all the rest of us knew just what
it was. Now my friends I hardly know
what to say because I want to fire a lot of
hot shot at you to night. In the old state
where I live we won't come into the Union
until the whole kite comes in and we will
come in at the tail end, so it seems like
talking to a person who is already free and
there is no possible hope of my being free
unless I come to Utah (applause) if it was
not that I like to be a missionary and come
here, but you don’t need missionaries here,
I want to go to the heathen (applause.) but
I was very much interested this afternoon
at what one of your gentlemen said and it
is so funny that the opposition are so sincere
and yet they don’t know just what they are
saying. This gentleman in his polite way
said he had such a high opinion of women
that he didn’t want to drag us down on a 
level with men on election day because
politics are so dirty and I thought the only
thing that is dirty about politics is the men,
(laughter and applause) and since we have
to live with these men 364 days in the year
why can’t they let us risk it the 365 days;
and if it is such a dirty place who can
handle a mop like a woman. (laughter)
When the Mayor of New York at one time
suggested the appointing of women on the
Board of Street Commissioners the Sun a
conservative old paper said to the Mayor
of New York. “Put your women on the
Board of Street Commissioners; who can
handle a broom so well as they.” And if
politics are dirty it does seem that it is time
they were cleaned up and they have got to
be cleaned up and we have got to come and 
help you. See how good we are. See how
kind we are! We were made to be your
helpmates. You are undertaking to run
this thing without us and you cannot ex-
pect to get out of it. I have always wanted
to see that and it is so wonderful that you
men want to keep it all to yourselves and
yet it is so safe. I cannot see why a decent
man is not as decent as a decent woman,

[Column 3]
and why a clean man is not just as clean as
a clean woman and why a moral man is not
just as moral as a moral woman, and I can’t
imagine how any decent man wants to get
down into any kind of a ruin. I have so
much respect for men that they have no
right to be asked to go anywhere where a
decent woman can’t go. I am getting tired
of this filthy pool of politics and strong-
minded women and all the rest of it. Why
is it a sort of a bugaboo to make them keep
still as the strong man will tell them. I
heard a woman on the train tell her children
if they didn’t behave that the Conductor
would punch a hole in their ears; I have
heard them tell lies to them, and then won-
der at Providence. But these people are
always telling stories to people to make
them keep still and scare them into good
behavior. Now Gentlemen, this dirty pool
of politics won’t scare us; we don’t believe
it and in the second place we are going to
stand right by you, we never have forsaken
you and we are not going to forsake you
now; and we will get out of our sphere. Is
it not wonderful that it is so easy for a wo-
man to get out of her sphere? I have been
out of my sphere for 25 years and I have
been exceedingly comfortable and a great
deal more so than in it and all these 25 years
I have been looking around to find a man
out of his sphere and I never yet found one
and I wondered why it was so easy for a
woman to get out of her sphere until I had
at last discovered that a man hadn’t any
sphere, to get out of. (Applause and laugh-
ter) But there is one thing true and that
is if you don’t get out of your sphere you
get into ours. (Laughter.)
	Not very long ago a good Methodist par-
son introduced me to a congregation and he
said “The only objection I have to you
women is that you push yourselves into the
kind of work that a man used to be engaged
in and what will become of us poor preach-
ers by and by,” and I said: “I think there
are a great many men preaching who would
to better at some other kind of business
and let women take the place and a good
thing it would be for the poor congregation
and an excellent thing for the preacher,”
and I said the difficulty with you is you
have been watching us so that you have
forgotten to watch yourselves. Years ago
there were only seven kinds of employment
and now there are more than seven hundred
kinds of employment in the United States in
which a woman can earn a livelihood; but
in the seven occupations in, which women
were engaged there are very few women to
be found to day, the men have taken them
up altogether.


