PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]

"We remained at Bishop Aaron Johnson's 
in Springville with his numerous family in
peace and good feeling with us all, until the
word of the Lord through President Brigham
Young was that the Saints might return to
their homes. I had watched for the smoke of 
our lovely city, which we had so cheerfully re-
signed to its fate, for we were determined to
lay it in ashes rather than leave our homes and
the fruits of our toil to fall into the hands of
our enemies, who, not content with driving us
from the borders of civilization, had followed
us into our mountain retreat. God had
changed the programme, the people, some of
them, were soon en route for our vacated city.
We had cheerfully made the sacrifice and He
had accepted it. As fast as was convenient
one family after another returned to the city,
and other places that had been vacated. The
conclusion was in my case that Martha Knight
Kimball and I should remain awhile in the
southern settlements, I was moved to Provo
and stayed there until September. The door-
yards were full of tall grass and the fruit trees
wern loaded with beautiful peaches and apples.
Sister Vilate (that blessed woman, a mother to
us all, when I think of her my heart swells
with gratitude) would give Bro. Kimball no
peace until he sent for me to return to the fam-
ily.
	Sarah Ann, Lucy, Mary H. and myself oc-
cupied the house that had been built for the el-
dest son William. I felt that I could do more
good at spinning and weaving for those who
needed it most, as all depended on their own
labor for clothing. In the evenings we pared
the fruit to dry. We spent the fall and winter
very pleasantly, four wives in one house, with
little children. This will seem like an anoma-
ly to our Gentile friends.
	"Early in the spring Howard Egan was sent
back to St. Louis to buy groceries and real nec-
essaries for family use. I gathered $5.00 and
sent back for carpet warp. Mary Kimball and
I had made the first rag carpet made in the
city. When the warm spring weather came
we "thinned out," and I went to live in the 17th
Ward, on the lot formerly owned by Hosea
C[-]shing, an adopted son of Bro. Kimball's.
My son Oliver had remained in Springville af-
ter I left there. He went freighting to Lower
California, and during his absence his wife cor-
responded with my eldest son George, who
held out great inducements for Oliver to take
his family and go back to St. Louis, Mo., and 
go into business with him in the woolen fac-
tory. The next spring he went East with Esquire
Wells who was going to England on a mission.
His wife was anxious he should go back, for
she had lost her faith in the Gospel. My
Agony of soul could not be told or written
when he left. I have never shed many tears
since, as the fountain was broken up."
	"Aunt Huldah boarded with me and taught
the 17th Ward school. I was alone with my
little boy Joseph, one out of nine children, and

[Column 2]

yet I lived. On the 27th of June Sisters Han-
nah T. King, Susan Schettler, Zina D. H.
Young and myself concluded to spend a por-
tion of that solemn day on Ensign Peak and
made the summit, prepared ourselves with re-
freshments, then rested ourselves, took our din-
ner and then built an altar of stone, carried
and piled up, around the altar we knelt and of-
fered up our prayers to God and thanks that He
had raised up a prophet in these last days and
the Gospel had been restored to the earth, and
that we had been of the few that had received
the truth. We sang and blest each other and
it seemed to us the spirit of the martyred pro-
phet, whose death we commemorated on that
sacred spot, was there and took cognizance of
our sacred honor to him. Several years after
I visited the sacred spot and the pile of stones
remained nearly as we left them."
	"I remained in the 17th Ward until the ap-
proach of winter, my labors were blest, I had
a good garden, as Bro. Campkin remarked, I
had the best crop that had ever been produced
on the lot. During all this time, however, I
never neglected any calls to visit the sick, the
dying, and the dead. I always took great
pains in preparing the dead beautifully for
their final rest, remembering what the Prophet
Joseph Smith had said, "dress your friends as
though they were going into the best of com-
pany." Never leave them with any part of
their clothing incomplete. I have no fear to
meet the many that I have helped to lay away.
When the winter came Bro. Kimball, to lessen
his expenses, gathered closer his numerous
family. Huldah B. and Harriet S. were in the
same house with me and our children. We
enjoyed ourselves and lived very harmonious
and quiet together. In the spring we were to
be again separated. My little son Joseph was
then eight years old. His father baptized him.
He bought a house and lot for me in the 16th
Ward, near to my brother's, Dimick B. Hunt-
ington, and on the 7th of April he sent for me
to go to his private room and gave me a bless-
ing and told me to write it and it should be
fulfilled, which I have realized to the letter.
When he had said all he wished to me, I said,
Bro. Kimball, when I make this move to-day I
shall have moved twenty-one times by your re-
quest, and I shall consider I am of age and
wish to remain in the 16th Ward for the fu-
ture."


