TO THE EDITOR OF THE ÆGIS:

	You wish to know how, and in what way I
know that Plural Marriage is right. By revela-
tion. I know by the same way that Peter knew
that Jesus was the Christ. "Jesus asked His
disciples whom do men say that I am, and they
answered and said, some say that Thou art John
the Baptist; some Elias; others Jeremiah or
one of the Prophets. He saith unto them, whom
do ye say that I am, and Simon Peter answered
and said Thou art the Christ, the Son of the
living God; and Jesus answered and said unto
him, blessed art thou Simon Barjona; for flesh
and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but
my Father which is in Heaven. I say unto
thee thou art Peter, and upon this rock will
I build my Church, and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it." Matthew, from the
13th to 18th verse, 16th chap.
	What rock was that? Was it Peter? No.
It was the rock of revelation. God revealed
it unto Peter by the Holy Ghost, the Comforter.
In the same way God has revealed it unto me
that Plural Marriage is right.
	You ask me how I got my faith, or religion,
and further ask, "was it not given to you or
established for an authority over you by men."
I say most emphatically that it was not. Faith
and true religion can not be given by man.
Man himself is dependent upon God for those
gifts, and can not bestow them upon others.
	"Faith is a gift of God. Without faith it is
impossible to please God. Even so faith if it
hath not works is dead, being alone. But
wilt thou know, vain man, that faith without
works is dead." James, 3d chap.
	I said in my last article I was born in this
Church, and will now add, in the valleys of
these mountains, and am a free born American
citizen, though now disfranchised for obeying
the laws of God. From my earliest recollection
I had been taught to believe that the Bible
meant what it said, and that God could see and
hear me and that if I would pray He would an-
swer my prayers. I used to hear these passages
of Scripture quoted by our Elders: "If any of
you lack wisdom let him ask of God, who giveth
unto all men liberally and upbraideth not, and
it shall be given him." James 1, 5. "Ask
and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall
find; knock and it shall be opened unto you;
for every one that asketh, receiveth, and he
that seeketh findeth, and to him that knock-
eth it shall be opened." Matt. 7, 7. I wanted
to prove if those passages were true, if God could
really answer my prayers. I asked in childish
simplicity for a temporal gift and I received it;
this strengthened my faith and gave me con-
fidence to ask for things of more worth than
earthly gifts. I wanted to know for myself if
the principles taught me were true. I was
earnest. I went to God in humility and asked
for a testimony of the truth of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ. My prayer was heard. I was
answered. The Holy Ghost, the Spirit of God,
filled me with joy and gave me a testimony
that man can neither give nor take away.

[Column 2]
	I have not lived very long upon the earth,
but I have lived long enough to know the value
of prayer. I have made God my friend while
I am young by living near to Him, pleading
daily for strength and wisdom for the fellowship
of His Holy Spirit to enable me to perform the
duties required of me. I praise His name and
thank Him that He has answered my prayers.
You say that I am blind to my own rights and
God given privileges and am under the "mystic
shadows of priestcraft." It is not true. I
enjoy light and intelligence that God has given
me, that I am afraid you know nothing about.
You are certainly under the "shadows of priest-
craft" and are blind to the things of God and
His Kingdom or you would not talk about a
people and their religion as you do about the
"Mormons." What do you know about "a
Mormon woman's only hope or guarantee of
Heaven?" or what is publicity "sanctioned" in the
Mormon Church. You haven't enough of the
Spirit of truth to discern it when placed before
you, but there are none so blind as those who
"do not want to see."
	If you read the WOMAN'S EXPONENT you are
constantly reading the testimonies of Latter-
day Saint women, that are true. You not
only reject their testimonies, in defense of their
religion, but you misrepresent them, for which
you will have to give an account in the great
"hereafter."
	We are not such meek, submissive creatures
as you imagine we are. What we do, we do
because we know by the Spirit that we possess,
is right. We do it intelligently because we love
to do right. We do not believe we can be
saved in ignorance. God has provided the way
wherin we can obain "hidden treasures of
knowledge," that is, in "doing the will of the
Father." "If any man will do His will he shall
know of the doctrine whether it be of God or
whether I speak of myself." John 17, 17.
	We have the moral courage to live the prin-
ciples of our religion in spite of all the derision,
sneers and opposition of the whole world. Mr.
Edmunds, Mr. Cullom and "fifty millions of
people," can not take from us our faith and
confidence in God, nor the testimony He has
given us concerning His Church that He has
established never more to be "thrown down."
They are in the hands of God and can do no
more than He will permit them to do. It is
our business to do the will of God. He revealed
the principle of plural marriage and com-
manded us to obey it.
	We can not give it up; we must work the
works of Abraham or we can not go where he
is. God walked and talked with Abraham
after he had taken a second wife, and told him
that he would make a covenant with him and
multiply him exceedingly and make him a
father of many nations. The son of his plural
wife also received a great promise from God:
"I will make him fruitful and will multiply
him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget
and I will make him a great nation. " Gen.
17, 20.
	That didn't look as though God thought he
was illegitimate. Jacob, who had four wives,
was a man whom the Lord loved; the twelve
tribes of Israel descended from those polygamic
wives. Moses, the great lawgiver of Israel,
who talked with the Lord and saw many marvel-
ous manifestations of His power, made special
provisions for the children of polygamous mar-
riages, and he himself practiced it.
	The Prophet Samuel was the son of a polyg-
amist, yet he lived in the temple and was an
object of God's favor. Many more names might
be mentioned to show that God blessed and
prospered ancient Israel, who practiced the
patriarchal order of marriage, but we do not
practice it because they did; we do not say that
because they were justified, we are justified.
We do these things because we have been
commanded to do them. We worship the same

[Column 3]
God that walked and talked with them. This
is the same Gospel, with all its gifts and bless-
ings, that they enjoyed.
	In this Church men and women are equal,
they are one, their interest is one; one is not
complete without the other. "Neither is the
man without the woman, nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord." 1 Cor. 11, 11. Mar-
raige is honorable in all and the bed undefiled,
but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
Heb. 13, 4. There is no law of public sanction
or custom for men to break their marriage vows
in "Mormonism." Divorce is very rare. God
delights in the chastity of His daughters; so do
His servants, and adultery is ranked next in
crime to murder among the "Mormons." Those
who practice such things are severed from the
Church. They are not connected with the Latter-
day Saints; they cut themselves off from the
Priesthood. A man makes solemn covenants
to be faithful to his wives, he does not deceive
one and betray another, but each one knows
that he has other wives whom he loves and who
love him. You ask "how can a woman gratify
her love on a creature that shares his with more
than one woman, that is, if he has any love or
knows what it is?"
	Let me ask you a question, if you are married
do you not love your husband, and does he not
love his mother and sisters, and if you are a
mother, does he not love your children? How
then can you gratify your love upon him, when
his is shared with so many? Does not a woman
love all her children equally? Does she lavish
all her affections on one child, and neglect
the others?
	It is your tradition that a man can only love
one woman; but what a poor "creature" a man
would be, with a soul so small, whose affection
was so limited he could only love one woman.
	We are told in the Bible that "God is love,"
well, then, if we have His Spirit we are filled
with love. This Spirit enables us to live in
this order, and to bear and forbear with each
other's imperfections.
	It makes us generous, kind and obliging.
We think it a blessing to have a good husband;
then why is it not equally a blessing for our
fellow sisters to have good husbands, and as
there are not good husbands enough for each
woman to have one alone, why not share with
each other in lawful marriage. We have the
Priesthood of God in our midst, not priestcraft,
who have the authority to marry for time and
all eternity, having the Apostleship or power
to seal on earth. We are the only people on
the earth who have this power and authority.
	You are married by man, "until death doth
you part." We are married by the power of
the Priesthood, to enjoy endless lives and asso-
ciations in the presence of God, if we keep the
faith and endure to the end.
	"But as it is written, eye hath not seen, nor
ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart
of man, the things which God hath prepared
for them that love Him. But God hath re-
vealed them unto us by His Spirit; for the
Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep thing
of God. For what man knoweth the things of
a man save by the spirit of man which is in
him? Even so the things of God knoweth no
man but by the Spirit of God. But the natural
man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of
God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither
can he know them because they are spiritually
discerned." 1 Cor. 11.
	In the absence of this Spirit we can not ex-
pect you, or any one else, to comprehend the
difference between Priesthood, which we share
with our husbands and enjoy that equality you
would like to see established, and priestcraft,
which has governed the world for ages.
	"For except a man be born of water and of
the Spirit he can not enter the kingdom of
God."				M. E. TEASDALE.
	Nephi, Jan. 19th, 1884.


