WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE.

	Immediately after seeing the telegram in the
papers, stating that the Executive Committee
of the N. W. S. A. of New York had protested
against the disfranchisement of the women of
Utah, etc., a telegram was sent to Mrs. Lillie
Deveruex Blake the President, and the ladies
of the Committee, a brief and sincere acknowl-
edgement, thanking them for the interest they
had taken in the matter. The dispatch was
signed by Eliza R Snow Smith, President of
Latter-day Saint Women's Organizations, Zina
D. H. Young, Fi s[-] Vice President, M. Isabella
Home, Second Vice president, Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Secretary, Presendia L. Kimball, Bath-
sheba W. Smith, Elizabeth Howard, Romania
B. Pratt, M. D., Ellis R. Shipp, M. D., Martha
Pual Hughes, M. D., Kate Wells, Zina Y. Wil-
liams, Ellen C. Clawson and Emmeline B.
Wells, Vice President National Women Suffrage
Association for Utah. The dispatch was pub-
lished in the "Daily Evening Telegram," and
other eastern papers. Since then letters have
been received from leading ladies in the east, as-
suring us of their hearty support in maintaining
woman suffrage, and expressing the opinion that
the unjust legislation against Utah would not
be sustained by the majority in Congress.
	Senator Edmunds has lost prestige with the
women suffragists, by advocating disfranchise-
for the women of Utah. Perhaps he had an
idea that there were more girls than boys
among our young people, and by the abolishing
of the franchise for women the "liberal party"
might gain ground, but that is not the case.
There are quite as many, if not more, boys born
in Utah than girls, and the idea that the off-
spring of plural marriage are mostly girls is far
from the truth. However we do not support
woman suffrage because there is any need of it
for the People's Party, not at all; but upon the
principle of legitimate right and political equal-
ity. That women are as well qualified as men
are to cast a vote and to give opinions, or even
decisions upon important matters, that they are
legally entitled to joint consideration and partici-
pation in the public weal, and should be equal
partners in the great governments of the world.
When it is well known that the most just and
equable of sovereigns have been women, why
should the people protest against the simple
right of franchise, the first preliminary step to-
wards political advancement. That is always
highest, best and most complete in which man
and woman both participate, and the highest
political and general good will be attained when
men and women work harmoniously for the in-
terest of the human family; politically as well
as morally, socially and religiously.
	The Governor of Iowa recommends prohibi-
tion and woman suffrage in his message to the

[Column 2]

Legislature, which is very encouraging to those
ladies who have labored so arduously in their ef-
forts for equal rights.
	Washington Territory is the third among the
Territories of the United States to give women
the franchise, and there is a recommendation to
Congress to appoint Mrs. A. J. Duniway Gov-
enor of the Territory. We have had some ac-
quaintance with the lady, and have no doubt
but she would fill the position with honor and
dignity.
	As for honesty and uprightness of character,
women have always been credited with a high
degree of conscientiousness in all matters of
business, and we have heard men remark, who
had been in business for years, that they never
lost a debt through the lack of honesty in a wo-
man. We should be very glad to see Mrs. Duni-
way appointed Governor; she justly deserves the
position for her able and efficient labors in
bringing about the passage of the bill granting
women political equality.


