MISS RUSSELL IN ARIZONA.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I promised you to  write before leaving home
whenever I found anything of interest.  Well,
one would be dull and blind indeed to find no-
thing worthy of note between here and Salt
Lake City, to me there was so much that the
trouble is where to begin and how to tell it, or
describe it best to others.  The good wishes of
our friends in regard to our journey were fully
realized, for it was just as pleasant as it could
be, not the slightest accident or anything un-
pleasant on the way.
	In coming through the Truckee County, the
immense piles of lumber and wood was quite a
sight in itself to old Missourians, who are still
partial to wood fires, although deprived of
them for a great many years.
	The snowsheds and tunnels annoyed me very
much, as they robbed us of much of the grand-
est scenery, I think one would need to be snow-
bound ou the road a time or two to make them
appreciate the sheds.  There are lovely little
hamlets, and cottages alone, here, there and
everywhere, all through the Sierras, some looked
most pleasant and home-like, others wild and
desolate. Coming down what they called blue
canyon is the grandest sight I ever saw, and
you need to be fascinated by the wild, magnifi-
cent beauties of nature there to take your mind
off the danger, to make you forget the fearful
leaps the train is liable to take; one was,
wrecked there about a month before we came
so a gentleman on the cars informed us.
	At Sacramento we spent several hours; visit-
ed the State House, which is a very fine build-
ing, and the grounds around are beautiful,
saw oranges and lemons growing for the first 
time, also palm and many other trees and
plants new to me. Went down to the river,
(Sacramento) and found several boats at the 
landing, which much reminded me of old Mis-
souri days.
	Temple is about thirty miles from Maricopa
Station; the road mostly level.  Last Monday
a number of us climbed to the top of a peak
or young mountain a short distance north of
the settlement, and had a fine view of the sur-
rounding country.  We saw Brother B. Young
going up after we started down, and he was
much pleased with what he saw, judging from
the discourse he gave us that night.
	From the peak you can see a vast country
spread out in every direction; Salt Lake valley
could be set down in one corner easily. One
ruin, plainly visible from the mount, has the
appearance of having been a fort, or fortified
castle; I am anxious to visit it, but have not
had an opportunity yet.
	The City papers are welcome visitors, and
help us  forget that we are so far from home.
I think if this country has to be built up by
our people they had better hurry up and ex-
tend the Utah Southern down this way.
		I remain, sincerely your friend,
