MY DEAREST SISTER LOUIE:
	How strange it seems to be in this far distant
land among strangers on a day like this. John
Q. and I have said so many times to-day, I won-
der what the folks are doing at home? And we
have wished so much we could see our little
George Q. I suppose his eyes are popping al-
most out of his head with surprise and wonder.
*	*	I have been helping to trim a Christ-
mas tree for the children. The festival is to be
given to night. There are eleven missionaries
here in Bern to-day. They gathered here for
the Conference, which was held yesterday and
Sunday, and are staying to spend Christmas.
The latter part of this week we go to Winter-
thur to attend Conference, and intend to return
by way of Zurich.
	Dec. 26th. I postponed finishing my letter
yesterday so I could tell you more about our
Christmas. The children came out in full
force, and they had a very nice time. A very
witty young German fellow dressed himself up
to represent Santa Claus, and when the child-
ren were singing he came in with a long basket
filled with presents on his back, a basket of
good things in one hand, and a Christmas tree
in the other, all lit up and trimmed with pretty
things. It was a total surprise to the little folks,
and at first some of the smaller ones were
frightened.	*	*	*	*	*
	The day was kept quietly here, all houses of
business closed, and the people mostly in doors,
save as they came to and from church. The
bells began to ring at five in the morning and
rang every quarter of an hour all day, except
when service was held.	*	*	*
	Before this I presume the Unity Club Fair is
all over with. I trust it was a great success. I
should very much like to know what became of
that wonderful quilt.

[Column 2]
	Ward pack has come down from Berlin, and
will assist the secretary in the office, so John Q.
will have more liberty to go out in the mission
ary field. He purposes visiting every Confer-
ence in the mission. First through Switzerland
and then Germany. I will join him at Geneva,
and expect then to see the Castle of Chillion, of
which we have read and heard so much, and
now my wish to see it is to be realized. As I
have three or four more letters to write before
going to Winterthur I will not prolong this one;
you will [-]ear from me through them all. John
Q. joins me in love to onr brothers and sisters,
dear father and mother, with much love for your
sweet self. May you have the happiest of New
Year's, and receive more blessings of health and
joy than ever.
