EDITORIAL NOTES[-]

	THE picture entitled, "Representative Wo-
men," and dedicated to Sister Eliza R. S. Smith,
the President of the Latter-day Saints Women's
Organizations, is now ready. The artistic part
of the work, which has been designed by Sister
Crocheron, is certainly very pretty, and shows
plainly the lady's talent. The work was litho-
graphed at the Graphic Office in New York,
and the likenesses are photographs taken in
this city. There is a book of pen-sketches of
about 140 pages, which will enhance the inter-
est of the picture.
	The organized work, which has been done by
women of this Church, is represented by the
leading officer of each society or association, and
the mottoes and emblems are expressive. Lit-
erature, education, music, science and art are al-

[Column 2]
so represented, and have appropriate symbols.
Altogether it is a very unique affair, but being
something entirely new will naturally meet
with criticism, though the object of Sister
Crocheron was a good and laudable one, and she
deserves success and patronage, for she has la-
bored under an accumulation of difficulties in
bringing the work before the public.
	MISS EMILY FAITHFUL: This distinguished
gentlewoman arrived in Salt Lake City Thurs-
day morning, January 18th, accompanied by
her private Secretary, Miss Charlotte Robinson.
She remained here about ten days, and during
that time we had the opportunity of meeting
her several times.
	Miss Faithful is well known in Great Britain,
America and Canada as a writer, a lecturer, a
philinthropist and reformer. She is connected
with the Princess Louise in philanthropical and
emigration work.
	Miss Faithful is the daughter of an English
clergyman, but is not herself bound by any
sectarian or restrictive ideas. When a young
lady she was presented at court, and has been
associated with the best people in England. She
is greatly admired not only in her own country
but in America also.
	She gave her celebrated lecture entitled
"Modern Shams" in the theatre in this city,
and was received with appreciative enthusism.
She was faultlessly dressed, and appeared per-
fectly at ease and natural; no attempts at dis-
play of language, no unnecessary gestures, no
pacing up and down, but graceful in manner
and simple in style, she appealed direct to the
intelligence of her audience, who were intent
in listening, and gave the strictest attention to
the speaker.
	The lecture itself was a decided and eloquent
protest against the shame, extravagances and
subterfuges of modern times, and the worship
of mammon, the god of this world, and especial-
ly of the present age. She thinks the present
style of living, of dressing and of public dinners,
parties, etc., is tending to an increase of jealousy
and hate among the working people, and will
eventually, if not arrested in its progress[--]y a
sensible change for the better, bring about a
state of things similar to the French revolution.
Her lecture was matter of fact, truths that every
one could receive, and she gave it in a clear and
happy manner, calculated to make a deep im-
pression on those who heard it.
	Miss Faithful is affable and amiable in man-
ner, a woman whom one can love and admire
for her nobility of soul and thorough apprecia-
tion of the needs of the age. She has great
good sense and marked ability; these qualities
combined with a superior education and exten-
sive travel make her a most charming conversa-
tionalist.
	We are very sorry she had not more time to
spend in the city, for her lecture was so highly
appreciated we feel confident it might have been
repeated to a full house.


