A SKATING PARTY.

	There were nine in our party that night fif-
teen years ago. Such a party! and such a night!
The moon had just past the full, and hovered
low over the eastern hills. Not a cloud in the
sky; each star shone clear, and in its brightness
seemed to stand alone in the blue firmament
that arched us over. It was so still, so calm,
so cold, and all was so white. The rising moon
shining on the spotless snow was met by a
thousand dancing lights, as radiant and lus-
trous as diamonds, while the eye never wearied
of the brilliant scene, and the heart drank
deep of the holy calm that descended upon us
like a mantle of peace.
	There were nine in our party that night:
four boys and five girls; and in the happy way
of fifteen years ago we went to the old mill-
pond. One of the boys provided the horses, an-
other the wagon bed and the hay heaped high
over the sides, another hunted up the bobs or
runners, and we all furnished our own rugs and
wraps. Just as the moon rose over the tips of
a tall elm tree, which stood in front of the
home of my sweetheart, we gave one wild
"hurrah!" which sounded loud and clear as only
it can sound on a cold, clondless night, and a-
way we went.
	We were happy that night, fifteen years ago,
the full laugh, the merry song filled the crispy
air, and many a window blind was raised, and
many a curious face peered out into the moon-
lit night in the hope of learning to what merry
party the pleasant tones belonged; and we
could see the bright flames reflected on the win-
dow panes as the fire on the hearth leaped high

[Column 2]

for the moment and then subsided into a steady
glow.
	There were nine in our party that night. An
odd party, was it not? But we did not think
so, for the sweet face of the fair girl who had
no beau that night was beloved by us all. She
came because we insisted; because she worked
hard and supported a widowed mother and
crippled sister, and because her sweet disposi-
tion aud the smile on her care-worn face drew
every heart out to her. She was happy that
night; her low and moving voice mingling 
cheerily with ours.
	We passed through the village, down the
long lane, over the hill where the winter wind
was keen and chill; and we drew the dear form
of the one nearest closer and closer to our own,
and looked into the pale and lovely face by our
side, made still paler and lovlier by the great sil-
very moon, which shed its wealth of rich light
upon us all, and upon the leafless tree and the
unsheltered and lonely bush near the cross-road.
On! on we went! every heart beating gaily—
every soul full of song and joy, till the old
mill, dark and dismal, came within view.
And we stopped at the same place where we
used to go on summer evenings when taking
the stealthy swim. We drove full on to the
ice, strapped on our skates and were soon glid-
ing over the smooth mirror which nature cre-
ates that the fair heavens may see themselves
reflected at that season even when frost reigns
supreme.
	Oh! we were happy that night! So happy
that the hours seemed but moments, and flew
by with noiseless tread. Not one thought of
care entered our bosoms; no one dreamed of
anything but the glory of the night and the
rapture of the hour. So none saw the bent
form that came across the ice towards us, nor
noticed that it moved slowly to the spot where
the spring was known to be, and where the
pond scarcely ever froze, save only at rare
times, when it was covered by a thin film of
ice—no one saw the form suddenly bend for-
ward and then sink; but the wild scream that
rang out on the midnight air struck such ter-
ror to my heart that I could never forget it,
were I to live till the millennium shall dawn
upon benighted man. We stopped, breathless,
and listened; but the stillness seemed rather to
grow from the anxiety with which we hearken-
ed, in hopes of catching the faintest sound.
Long, long we listened, but the beating of each
fond heart that in its terror crept closer to our
own, was the only sound to which the quick and
waiting ear gave heed. No one spoke; all
moved silently to the old-fashioned sleigh, and
we started home. The song had died on our
lips, the mirth had departed from our hearts,
and we went back past the old church yard,
where the tombstones, half buried in the snow,
were covered with diamonds and nature's
prisms, in which the cold moon could see its
beams reflected with the many colors of the
rainbow. And nearer and nearer was drawn
each slender form, and closer and closer beat
our hearts in tender unison; and no one ob-
served the sweet girl who was companionless
that night, until she fell against my shoulder
pale and rigid, when her lips closed with a wail
of anguish that resolved itself into the pitying
word, "Mother." Her pale face was upturned
to the moon, and seemed ghastly in its white-
ness. We chafed her hands and rubbed her
cheeks and temples; but though she breathed
and sighed her eyes never opened to the silvery
moon again; her voice no more burst forth in
song; and when we carried her into the humble
home, of which she had been the life and sup-
port, she was dead. How shall I describe that
scene? The home was still and deserted by life;
the embers burned low upon the hearth, and
close beside it, cold and peaceful, and in the
arms of death, lay the poor, crippled sister.
But the mother was not there; she had followed

[Column 3]

her daughter to the pond when the cripple
breathed its last, and the next day her body
was found beneath the ice near the spring.
	It is fifteen years since that night. I have
seen much of life, I have suffered much, and
have beheld much suffering; but the memory of
that hour is as fresh and vivid as it was just
fifteen years ago. Of that party only two re-
main. The sweet faces and manly forms are
laid to rest beneath the sod in the old church-
yard; and to-night, while the moon is just past
the full, while the stars shine clear and high,
in my mind's eye I can see the old tombstones,
with the new ones interwoven, half buried in
the snow, covered with diamonds, and reflect-
ing back the moon's cold rays, and I sigh and
shut mine eyes, and pray God that none of
those I love should ever have so sad an experi-
ence with a skating party.	S. S.


