BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Horace mentions Bro. William Cahoon with
part of the band being encamped within a
short distance of us, also speaks of Bro's John
Taylor and Spencer having gone ahead.
"Here," he says, "it commenced raining soon
after our arrival, which, however, did not last
long. Bro Perry left us also to-day and went
back to Nauvoo."
	Next day Bro. Markham come back from
his camp, which was three miles ahead, with
fifteen or sixteen yoke of oxen to assist them
along, which was very acceptable, as during
the last night four of my father's horses had
strayed away, and a number of the boys had
gone out in pursuit of them—we went on to
Bro. Markham's camp and stopped. The
horses were found at the place where the boys
had last bought corn, some fifteen miles distant
from camp; probably they remembered it and
went back for another feast.
	The same day Horace wrote: "Brother Dal-
ton's horse was bitten to-day by a rattlesnake.
We have a civilized Indian of the ancient Del-
aware tribe with us, who is of great use to us
in such cases. Also this morning noticed a
heifer, belonging to Bro. John Pack, which
had been bitten. These reptiles are getting so
plenty as to be quite dangerous for those travel-
ing on foot, though I believe, as yet, no person
has been bitten. The other day one of Bro.
Kimball's horses being bitten he laid his hands
on the part effected, and rebuked the sickness
occasioned by the poison, in the name of the
Lord, which prayer was almost immediately
answered. Bro. Kimball says it is just as prop-
er to lay hands on a horse or an ox and admin-
ister to them in the name of the Lord, and of
as much utility, as it is to a humun being, both
being creatures of His creation, both, conse-
quently, having a claim to His attention.
	"Saturday, 25th. Traveled about seven
miles and encamped on quite a large creek, the
name unknown—called it Mt. Pleasant. This
day, by the advise of Bro. Kimball, Helen and
myself commenced "keeping house," or tent
rather, by ourselves; taking Hosea Cushing,
Wm. King, Jeannette Murray, Bro. Francis
Whitney and little Heber, thus, by this means,
more equalizing the number for the other tents
—rained a little during the night	*	*
To-day news came from Brigham that he was
five miles ahead on one of the forks of Grand
River, and that the calculation was to com-
mence splitting rails, etc., in order to inclose
some farms, also to lay out a town plat etc."
	"Sunday, 26th. This morning, notwithstand-
ing our beautiful location, we were forced to go
ahead, in consequence of there being no good
range for our cattle to feed.	*	* Before start-
ing heard Bro. Scott telling a circumstance
that happened about fifteen miles from here in
the Welder Settlement—this man, Welder, be-
ing notorious for his mobocratic principles. A
portion of the artillery had gone there and
taken jobs of work—they had earned about
$26—when they were visited by a committee,
professing to be a deputation of the people,
who told them they must leave immediately.
The man who owed them $26 seemed disposed
to pay them, but on manifesting a disposition
to do so he was told by his neighbors that he
should "pack his duds and leave;" accordingly
he paid them nothing—traveled five miles and
overtook the remainder of Zion's camp. At
this place the fitting out of those who intend
going over the mountains will take place.
Bro. S. Roundy came from Nauvoo that day,
bringing the mail. Bishop Whitney received
a letter from Thos. Burdick, dated April 22nd,
at Nauvoo, stating that he had just received a
letter from Reuben McBride, in Kirtland, an-

[Column 2]
nouncing the death of Grandfather Whitney.
The same day, by the kindness of one of the
artillery, our company were provided with
some fresh pork, some of the company having
killed a wild hog in that vicinity, of which
they saw quite a drove.
	"Monday; 27th" continues Horace, "on wak-
ing this morning found it raining, which con-
tinued through the day and night, a cold,
drizzly rain; consequently the brethren could
not do much at splitting rails etc. There are a
hundred men assigned to this business, ten lay-
ing up rails, forty-eight to building houses,
twelve to each house; ten herding cattle, twelve
digging wells, ten building a bridge across the
river for us to pass on our journey west; ten or
twelve stocking ploughs and making drags,
five or six blacksmith shops, the remainder to
attend to the business of farming, etc."
	It seems that for two days there was not
much done on account of the rains, which con-
tinued incessantly day and night till Wednes-
day evening, when it cleared off pleasant. By
the last mail father had received a letter from
Bro. Joseph L. Heywood, at Nauvoo, announc
ing the sale of our place there for thirty-five
yoke of oxen, to which Horace wrote an an-
swer on the 28th.
	The next day he wrote: "A meeting was
called about noon in order to do some business,
necessary to fitting out an expedition over the
mountains. Bro. O. Pratt made an estimate
of the number of wagons, grain, implements
of farming, such as hoes, shovels, etc., that
would be necessary for one hundred men on
this expedition."
	"The first of May," Horace wrote, "we are
now engaged repairing the wagons that we in-
tend taking with us when we shall start again.
The weather has been so inclement since our
arrival that our stay here will necessarily be
prolonged beyond the time originally intend-
ed."
	He also speaks of his father and mother,
Prest. young and wife Mary Ann, and my
father and mother going to Lorenzo Young's
tent that same day to dine, where they had
quite a family meeting. While stopping there
there was not more than one or two days till
about the 13th that we did not have a shower;
some of the time hail and rain, and on the
night of the 5th had a heavy thunder storm,
and there was some sickness in consequence,
but we had very few deaths in our camp dur-
ing that part of our journey, for which we had
great cause to be thankful. Numbers of the
brethren, who had come that far with teams and
to drive, returned to Nauvoo.
	"Tuesday, 4th," Horace says, "one of father's
horses, on being driven up to-night, was dis-
covered to be very badly bitten in two or three
places on the head. We immediately resorted
to our family horse physician, the Delaware,
who has been veyr sucessful hitherto," but
on the 7th, it seems, the horse died, contrary to
their expectations. "This," Horace wrote, "was
owing to the inattention on the part of the
boys, who neglected to take care of him.
Father considers it quite a loss as it breaks up
one of his teams."
	"Friday, 8th.	*	*	Jacob Fra-
zier came in with five yoke of Bro. Kimball's
ozen and went to drawing rails this afternoon.
The brethren finished their fencing to-day,
having enclosed 300 acres, leaving a surplus of
10,000 rails; they have besides a sufficient
number of house logs cut to build 30 or 40
buildings. This afternoon Andrew Cahoon
came in from Nauvoo-brought the mail, the
5th number of the Eagle for Brigham, and the
news that Porter was arrested, while asleep, by
Backentos in Nauvoo for the murder of Wor-
rel—that he was taken to Carthage, stood trial
on the charge and was acquitted. He was no
sooner liberated, however, than he was taken
up on another accusation—that of threatening

[Column 3]
a man's life, and committed to Quincy Jail
there to await his trial."
	"The wife of Bro. Green, captain of a com-
pany of pioneers, died, and was buried here
yesterday."
	"Saturday, 9th. Beautiful day— about noon
I started out and got the cattle— put four yoke
on my wagon, three on Bro. Smither's and
horses to the carriage, and went out three or
four miles and encamped where our cattle have
been kept—took the little tent with us. Wm.
Kimball and King went with us and helped
us drive the teams. We got here about sun-
set. We are in a short distance of a hut
which the boys built the other day, where John
Forsgreen and Jacob Frazier stay nights.
There is a wolf's den about a quarter of a mile
from here, which Wm. found the other day—
the boys chased a wolf into it and put fire at
the entrance, but could not scare the wolf out,
and on repairing there the next day discovered
the sticks they had made it of carefully laid
aside. Beside Helen and myself there are six
of us, John, Jacob, Jeannette, Sister Smither
and her two children."
	"Sunday, 10th.		*	*	There were
some resolutions passed at the meeting—one
was, that the land which had been enclosed,
and all that pertains thereto, should be consid-
ered as belonging to the Church or Church
property, each man or family is allowed a cer-
tain portion of land to till, and if he neglects
it, it is to be taken from him and given to an-
other. Father Burt is to be left as president
of this Stake of Zion, assisted by two counsel-
ors. Jedediah Grant preached in the Gospel."
	This day the sky was cloudless and beauti-
ful, and I was happy because the few days
spent there were so quiet and peaceful, and I
looked forward with a feeling of dread to the
time that it must be broken in upon and again
be forced to mingle with the crowd and una-
voidable noise and bustle of a large camp. Our
tent was pitched on a gentle slope, and below
some distance away, was a crystal stream of
water babbling over the rocks down through a
little grove of trees and willows, where I ac-
companied Horace the next day, Sunday, to
fish, taking along our books to read. This
was his favorite pastime, and in which he in-
dulged every opportunity. This was the most
delightful spot we had seen, the whole land-
scape around us was lovely, they called it roll-
ing praierie, and it had such a variety of hills
and dales, all dressed anew in their bright vel-
vety robes of spring.
	the first morning I took an early stroll to
enjoy the scene, and I was almost enchanted as
I stood there alone gazing at the glorious sight
as the sun was peeping over the hills—and to
lend still more to the scene of enchantment
here came a beautiful fawn and also an aute-
lope, skipping fearlessly over hill and dale and
out of sight, with naught to disturb them nor
the peace and tranquility of my thoughts, but
the knowledge that the spell was so soon to be
broken.
	I was a romantic girl, not yet eighteen, and
naturally an admirer of the beauties of God's
handiwork, and I thought, like the "Minstrel,"
	"O nature, how in every charm supreme!
		Whose votaries feast on raptures ever new!
	O, for the voice and fire of seraphim,
		To sing thy glories with devotion due!"
	Next day another fishing excursion was tak-
en, where Horace caught a dozen or more.
These substantials were very acceptable, as we
had had no meat, except a little that had been
given to us and some we had borrowed a few
days previous, for a number of weeks, but had
subsisted principally on sea biscuits and that
sort of fare. When the sun did shine the heat
was intense, and the reasons for my remember-
ing it was that we were compelled to walk all
that was possible to favor the teams as they


were fast giving out, and the most aggravating
part was the slow progress that we made, it
taking us over three months to accomplish
what would have been a week's journey under
ordinary circumstances.
	Sometimes our camping place would be in
sight of the one that we had started from in
the morning, being on the prairie and having
to follow the crooked ravines, there being no
roads or bridges unless we stopt to build them.
The most trying part of the journey, at least to
me, was when we had to walk, and the scorch-
ing sun at times beating down upon us, until
my little strength and patience would be quick-
ly exhausted. There were times when we girls
would drop down by the roadside and vow that
we would not rise again till we saw the tents
pitched, then we would take a straight line to
the camp. I had not yet obtained sufficient
religion to assist me and as my strength failed
me so did my faith, but when the teams were
ahead our only alternative was to get up and
travel on. But after they decided to peddle off
such things as they could not take with them
over the mountains and we got more teams and
provisions, we were much more comfortable. I
shall never forget how I feasted at Garden
Grove upon my mother's first white bread and
fresh churned butter. I had been famishing
for a fortnight or more for the want of nour-
ishment, or the lack of appetite to eat such as
was set before us. At Garden Grove we had
our first trial at eating cakes made of parched
corn meal, one meal of which sufficed me.
At the beginning of our journey the crack-
ers went very well for lunch, but after laying
in the boxes, as they did through that long
siege of wet weather, they became more or less
mouldy and tainted with the pine wood, so that
the greater part were fit only to be thrown
away.
	I remember one evening at our pleasant
camping place, after leaving the main camp,
when our little circle had knelt for prayers, I
happened to bow by the bag of parched meal,
and the effect was so unpleasant I could not
centre my thoughts upon worship, so I arose
quietly and moved to the opposite end of the
tent. Some were considerably reduced in flesh
by this time. But at this place Bishop Miller
and a number of the brethren went out ped-
dling. The quadrille band, Bro. James
Smithers among the number, had gone on the
same business in order to make exchanges for
teams, flour, bacon, and other provisions,
which the camp stood in great need of.

To be Continued.


