A BIRTHDAY ADDRESS.

	Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, the anniversary
of your 80th birthday is assumed to be suffic-
iently momentous to be worthy a social reun-

[Column 2]
ion of friends, many of whom have been long
tried, and with you have borne the heat and
burden of opposition to the great innovation of
the latter-days.
	We are well aware that mnch demonstration
is not congenial to your quiet, practical mode
of life. You prefer to be known by your
deeds, rather than by the eulogies of admiring
friends. But for an hour of social pleasure of
friend with friend, a more auspicious time than
your birthday we thought could not well be se-
lected. This evening we combine two pleas-
ures in one—the meeting of numerous friends
and the pleasure of pausing in this busy life of
ours to make special note of the natal day of
Zion's Poet—Laureate.
	Modesty is a gem becoming to the bosom of
all true women, and we know none prize it
more highly than yourself, yet we presume to-
night, and we shall hope not unpardonably, to
thus bring you to the front and review in your
presence some of your good works.
	Your life is contemporary with two of the
greatest events in the annals of modern his-
tory, namely, the growth of the American Re
public and the time when God has set His hand
to prune His vineyard for the last time. With
both you have identified yourself, and adorned
many events with poetic garb that will immor-
talize and hand them down to posterity. We
should not forget in our short panorama of
your life to-night the high praise which is due
your parents, for success in after life depends
much, very much, upon starting out aright.
Under their wise teaching and counsel an in-
tellectual soil was prepared, which was fertile
when the seed of truth was sown. And the
mystic skill of economy taught you by your
mother has stood you in good part, both in
your personal comfort and as a public teacher
of the science of life. Your high appreciation
of the Pearl of Great Price when you found
it was shown by the complete renunciation of
all worldly honors and emoluments, and even
the comforts of life, and in your counting every
sacrifice as without weight in the balance with
truth. The dauntless and undying heroism of
woman's love was exemplified in the choice of
your husband. The law of God, which gave
you perfect right to recognized wifehood, had
been long and deeply buried beneath the dark-
ness of many ages. But your souls were wed,
yours and Joseph's the Prophet, with the appro-
bation of the great Father of Light and sealed
by the authority and power of the holy Priest-
hood, which gave yon strength to live and love
in silence, regarding his presence and teachings
as a boon above all others. And when the
saddest of sad days came, when your husband
became a martyr for truth's sake, upon the al-
tar of a broken heart you burned the incense
of eternal vows, and with tear-stained eyes up-
lifted to heaven, cried, "To labor in thy vine-
yard, O Father, doing the work that Joseph
has given me, I consecrate my future life."
Thus we interpret your long and useful career
amoug the Saints of God. Yonr life's trials—
the death of your husband did not quench your
poetic fire, but through it you poured forth
your sorrow in accents which comforted your
own heart and the hearts of the Saints. Your
deep suffering made you a sympathizing friend
and wise counselor to many in the dark hour
of trial. As priestess in the House of God
many have received rich blessings under your
hands, and with lovlng hearts remember you
as a great mother in Israel.


[Column 1]
	As an organizer we find you holding the po-
sition you justly occupy as leader of the Lat-
ter-day Saint Women Associations. From the
time our late lamented Prest., Brigham
Young, called upon you to assist in reorganiz-
ing these charitable and far-reaching for good
societies, you have been unfaltering and untir-
ing in your labors until all Zion is one vast
map of organization, and no poor or destitute
need have it to say, "I know not where to go
for help." Your labors have not stopped in
providing for the temporal wants of the poor,
but the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Associations are organized all over the land
for the spiritual culture and the general in-
struction of those verging into the important
and holy positions of wifehood and mother-
hood. How can we estimate the value of your
numberless words of wise counsel given, which
like the circling waves from a pebble cast into
the middle of a great sea, widen and enlarge
until they touch the shore of posterity. And
your indefatigable spirit of organizing does not
stop with the youth of Zion, but reaches down
to cull the tender buds, fresh from the mater-
nal bosoms, to form the Primary Associations,
where the seeds of truth are sown in virgin
soil, and the twig is bent as it is desired to
grow. And thus the cycle of organization, as
a wheel within the greater wheel of the Priest-
hood, is completed, and no one in all Zion who
responds to the call need stand alone without
the pale of organization. Thus the bond of
everlasting love, as warp of the web into which
we are all woven as woof, forms us into one
harmonious family, which already, though so
small, is fast becoming the terror of the wicked
world.
	In the midst of all these labors poetic effu-
sions flash through the interstices of your
work, which is a grateful assurance to us that
the oil of life has not yet burned low, but, like
the wise virgin, you keep your lamp trimmed
and burning, awaiting the coming of the Great
Bridegroom.
	The journey to Palestine, which by permis-
sion you participated in, was an important
epoch in the world's history, which it little ap-
preciates, but we who know rejoice in and are
proud that a woman assisted in that great la-
bor of love for truth's sake. The mighty pow-
er of endurance you displayed in that exten-
sive journey, and your long life of incessant ac-
tivity is a monument of the divine truth of
the word of wisdom, which teaches to be tem-
porate in all things, and the value of system
and order in all the duties of life.
	We congratulate you that your life has been
permitted to so nearly span the era between
the planting of the last dispensation and the
final victory of truth over error. We know the
day of victory is near at our door and we earn-
estly pray, if it be the will of providence, that
your days may not be ended until truth be en-
throned, and its feet are firmly planted upon
the neck of error.
	Though "Party-zeal" with "Deceit and
Greed," and all their horde, are vigorously work-
ing to rob the women and all the truest Saints
of the Latter-day of their most sacred rights as
American born citizens, we pray you may yet
see the fulfillment of the promise which has
been revealed to you from heaven, that in-
vestigation, inquiry, truth and knowledge and
their adherents will gain the victory, because
they are stars of brilliant flame and shine for
the true heirs of this favored land of Joseph-

"There needs no sail for Zion's ship—
	Our foes may pause and wonder;
They move us on at every clip,
	And row their own crafts under."

	In conclusion, beloved chief of the sister-
hood of the Saints, permit us this night anew
to reassure you of our most earnest co-opera-
tion in all your labors in the interest of human-
ity, of our unwavering faith in your destiny.

[Column 2]
And our constant prayers are that your au-
tumnal days of life may lead into paths strewn
with flowers of fairest hue and sweetest frag-
rance and fruits of eternal flavor, springing
from the seeds sown by your arduous and glor-
ious toil on earth. Your life work we accept
as an example worthy of emulation by all your
contemporaries and posterity, and long may
you yet remain with us as a beacon warning off
danger, and as a High Priestess and faithful
watchwoman on the towers of Zion, guiding
and directing all to our Celestial Home.
					ROMANIA B. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 19th., 1884,


