MY DEAR MOTHER:
	You say you have had no letter from me after
I left New York before the one from Bern, writ-
ten on the 5th ult. I wrote you a long letter on
board the Oregon the day we sighted land, and
put it myself into the mail bag to be sent from
Queenstown. I am sorry you did not get it, as it
gave a brief description of the magnificent vessel
we sailed in, and a full account of my voyage,
with all its pleasures and annoyances. I think
every one on board wrote letters home; I won-
der if they all, like mine, never reached their
destined goal.	*	*	*	You wonder if


[Column 1]
we have glowing grate fires and lights such as
we have at home; and you will be surprised to
hear what kind of fires we have. Our room I
believe I tried to describe before, and if I ne-
glected mentioning the stove I did very wrong,
for it is a principal feature of the room, both on
account of its size and use. In all the houses
here, and ours is no exception, they have large
porcelain stoves, some square, some round.
Some are very prettily ornamented and look
very nice in a room. The fire is made on the
outside in the chimney, it seems to me, and
when it once heats up, this great oven or table,
the room becomes gradually warm. The heat
is even and moderate, and the best of it all is,
there is never any smoke or coal dust, or sign of
fire in the room. The fire is laid and lighted in
the hall, and one is never bothered with sweep-
ing up hearths or taking up ashes in one's room.
They are very queer things, and I fear my des-
cription is not very lucid.
	This morning John Q. and I went through an
art museum; this is the first museum or gallery
I have visited, and some of the pictures inter-
ested me very much. There were some very
good pictures and some very poor; but most of
them were very odd and very old, and these in-
terested me and I enjoyed looking at them very
much. The prettiest and the most interesting
thing in Bern is the wood carving. Some of
this work is truly wonderful, and very beauti-
ful. There are battle scenes represented very
clearly and very handsomely, and all done with
a little knife. There are several large stores in
the city where they sell nothing else.
	Our Conference here begins next Sunday and
continues Monday and Tuesday. We will have
a kinder-feast. I have been helping to trim a
Christmas tree for the children.	ANNIE.

