WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	PRECEPT AND EXAMPLE.
	In reading the Church works my mind goes
back to early days, and I remember a revelation
that was given, called the "Word of Wisdom;”
and it was given for the benefit of the Latter-
day Saints—for their preservation in a time to
come. About the time it was given, or rather
soon after, the Church, both men and women,
almost universally observed its teachings, and a
man that did not keep it according to his under-
standing was not considered worthy to adminis-
ter in the ordinances of the Holy Priesthood—
at least so it was decided in the High Council at
Kirtland. (Joseph Smith’s History, Times and
Seasons. And I would ask, what improvement
have we, as a people, made in the years that
have passed? The Lord well knows the weak-
nesses of human nature, and is very lenient.
But how much longer will he bear with this
people? It seems to me that our time is about
up, and the Lord will soon require a more strict
observance of His word, or we must suffer the
consequences.
	A short time ago the subject of sewerage, san-
itary measures, etc. was agitated to a consider-
able extent. Now, cleanliness is an excellent
thing as everybody knows; but the inside of the
platter should be kept clean as well as the out-
side. If it were possible to make a sewer large
enough to take in all the breweries, whisky sa-
loons, et cetera and, their patrons, and then
empty the contents of the inexhaustible “Lit-
tle Brown Jug,” and wash them all away it
might be a great benefit to the people. Many
wonder where diptheria, and other horrible des-
eases come from, and why we are so often afflic-
ted with them. Some lay it to cesspools and
such like; which may be, in a measure, correct,
especially if they are defective; but if the sys-
tem is kept in proper order, by observing the
Word of Wisdom disease would not have power
to lay hold and destroy. It is no mystery to
me where these things come from, for the Lord
has said, through the mouths of His holy proph-
ets, that He would pour out His judgments up-
on the face of the whole earth without measure
in the last days. And it has been declared that
a desolating sickness shall pass over the land
But the Lord has been mindful of His people,
and shown them whereby they can escape these
things. And if the Saints will not take advan-
tage of God’s mercy, in making known unto
them a way of escape, how can they have faith
and confidence to call on Him for help in the
hour of their trouble.
	We send our children to Sunday School that
they may be taught the principles of righteous-
ness. They are taught to honor their father and
mother. They, are taught the necessity of
keeping the Word of Wisdom, etc. At home,
perhaps, they see their father take his beer or
whiskey; they see him smoke his cigar and chew

[Column 2]
tobacco. The'r mother takes her tea and coffee
at the table, and if the children do not take it,
it is because they are not allowed, but will do so
when they are older. Children generally look
upon their parents as perfect beings, and what
they do is right, and they should think so; for
the commandment to them is, “Honor thy
father and thy mother, etc.” Now, what is to
be done when precept and example conflict?
Surely this cannot be beneficial to the young.
A short time ago I called at a neighbor’s house;
a little girl was rolling up a piece of paper, and
said she was going to smoke. I said, it is wrong
to smoke. “Oh, but pa smoke!” So, whatever
pa or ma does must be right, for they are the
highest authority in the eyes of children. If
they drink whiskey, chew tobacco, smoke, use
tea and coffee, it must be good or they would
not use it. Now, if parents persist in using
these things the children will be apt to follow
in their footsteps; and then where is the use of
the “Word of Wisdom” at all. If we will not
do our part, how can we expect the Lord will do
His? Can we expect the destroyer will pass by
our door and not enter? Verily, no. He will be
apt to enter and lay hold of the weakest of the
flock, and when it is too late we will see our mis-
take.
	Now, if the Lord designs to raise up a strong
and mighty people He will be apt to take those
for the foundation that will be obedient to all
His words, whether it relates to our spiritual or
temporal welfare. The two cannot well be sep-
arated. Our physical health and strength de-
pend, in a great measure, on what we eat and
drink. I have great faith in the doctrine of
“The survival of the fittest.” It would not be
a pleasant idea to know that our posterity would
be cut off from the land, being weaklings, made
so by the injudicious habits of their parents,
	When, many years ago, the Lord proposed to
people this continent, He sought out two of the
best families in Jerusalem—those that were
strong both physically and mentally. And when
they were traveling toward the promised land
they were not permitted to eat anything but
raw meat. The Lord designed them to be the
root of a nation that should endure many hun-
dred years. I dare say there was some murmur-
ing, but the Lord made their food sweet unto
them, and they were healthy and strong, and
their women bore children in the wilderness,
and I doubt not but they were far healthier and
stronger than they would have been had they
had less air and a greater variety of food. Sup-
pose a people in these days were required to ab-
stain from all kinds of food but raw meat; would
there not be some grumbling? I think there
would. The Lord has given us a great many
good things, and has withheld nothing that is
for our good. Then let us not complain, but re-
joice that our Father has been mindful of His
people, and given them a “Word of Wisdom.”
Some think because they work hard they need
a little “something” to keep them up. Others
are not very well and they indulge in using tea,
coffee, beer, and other things that God has said
is not good for man. One woman showed me her
hands that were crippled with rheumatism as an
excuse for drinking tea Some excuse them-
selves in one way, and others in another way—
and perhaps they are excusable, it is not for
me to say. But it is the effect of the example,
set before the rising generation that I am writ-
ing about. Perhaps if we had faith enough to
try the Lord we might have better health, more-
strength to perform our labors, and greater
stores of knowledge—all of which are promised
to the obedient. I would suggest that the
“Word of Wisdom” be read occasionally in all-
the Relief Societies, Young Men’s and Young
Ladies’ Associations, and very often in the
Primaries. Too much cannot be said on this


subject. If parents neglect their duties in re-
gard to these things, children will grow up in-
diffirent as to the word of the Lord, that is if
they live to grow up at all. Then where will be
that great and mighty people the Lord is to
raise up in the last days to stand upon Mt. Zion?
I will tell you what I think about it. The Lord
will select the best and perpetuate their seed,
while drunkeness and debauchery will have no
place among the people of God.
