TO SISTER ELIZA.

Sister Eliza, how shall I convey
The wishes that surround your natal day?
Or voice the love, the vast appreciation
That prompted this, your birthday celebration?
My inability had disinclined me
To undertake the present task assign'd me,
Knowing that abler ones, and older, too,
Could best bestow a tribute worthy you;
Yet if I fail to fitly grace my theme,
I trust you'll still accept my warm esteem.

Thousands of Saints to-day would fain express
Their recognition of your usefulness;
Their voices, as "the sound of many waters,"
Would own you first of Zion's veteran daughters;
Yea, one and all to you this place accord,
Assigned you by the servants of the Lord,
Nor could our brethren have ordained a wiser,
Or naturally, more able organizer.
You've led your sisters on in righteousness,
And systematically soothed distress;
Have formed societies whose purpose pure
Has helped the helpless and relieved the poor;
Nor have you toiled and traveled thus for gain,
Nor have your faithful labors been in vain.
In Zion's stakes, through all their breadth and length,
Lo! Zion's daughters have increased in strength,
Till with the Priesthood of "High Heaven" they stand
Shoulder to shoulder like a marshalled band,
Willing and waiting, disciplined and true,
Ready indeed the will of God to do.
Our little ones have also had a share
Of your unceasing and iustructive care;
Many the blossoms that we trust will bring
A glorious and abundant harvesting.
Even under God this state of things is due,
In a great measure, to your efforts true;
And yet to-day, in spite of cares so weighty,
Body and mind, you're sound and staunch at eighty.
You number fourscore years, without a doubt,
Pardon the pride that makes me tell it out;
I know you're not ashamed of being old,
Or else your age you never would have told.
Why is it some who've sense commit the blunder
Of underating "Eather Time," I wonder?
Why should we wish his traces could be hidden,
Why treat him coldly, like a guest unbidden?
'Tis just as well for folks to condescend
To take Time's hand and own him as a friend.
Doubtices he's partial to a special few,
And thus it is he's gently dealt with you;
Long may he favor you as heretofore,
At least another twenty years or more,
Unless of life you weary, may you see
Enough of time to make a century.

Fourscore to-day! Oh! what you must have seen;
A wonderful experience yours has been;
Honor'd indeed to be the mate, the wife,
Of one whose sacred mission cost his life;
Consort of Joseph, martyr, saint and seer,
Whose memory unto all of us is dear;
How much more so to those we cannot tell
Whose privilege it was to know him well;
Who were by him beloved, and to him sealed
By the grand principle from heaven revealed.
Rare courage they possessed, (the faithful few)
Who entered into covenants so new,
Who, while their aim as falling snow was pure,
Had ev'ry kind of slander to endure.
To wrestle, not alone with vain tradition,
But with vindictive, murderous opposition,
Through deepest waters truly have you past,
Through persecution's scathing, fiery blast,
Endured the days when our loved leader fell
To glut men's malice and the spleen of hell,
Yet firm your faith, e'en while yonr heart strings bled,
For Christ yon knew was still "our living head."

Soon as for you the dearest ties were riven
Lo! from their rightful homes the Saints were driven,
To seek upon the pathless prairies wide

[Column 2]

The common rights their country had denied;
Their only shelter and their only home,
Were canvas walls; or heaven's vaulted dome.
Deprived of all the luxuries left behind
They murmured not, but all their strength combined
To reach the distant, designated spot,
Where mobs no more against their peace would plot.
Mighty aud strong God raised them up a man
Of dauntless courage to direct and plan,
As Moses led the Hebrews through the sea
So Brigham Young (a man of destiny)
Was called to guide God's people day by day
And lead them in "a solitary way."
The sense of freedom so supremely sweet
Invigorated weary hearts and feet.
And thus they reached the valleys of the West,
And 'mid the "everlasting hills" found rest;
Yet whilst they journey'd on the lonesome plains
The camp of Isr'el sang your cheering strains,
Such glowing words that bade them courage take
To bear their burdens for the Gospel's sake.
And so for years your glorious gift of song
Has helped the weary and the faint along.

One incident 'mong recollections rife
I fain wonld mention of my early life;
Grant me forbearance while I thus recall
One epoch more eventful than them all.
Auspicious time, when truth's eternal light
Flooded my soul with its effulgence bright.
Truth found me seeking it when but a child,
Happy was I to find it undefiled;
But those I fondly hoped would share my joy
Daily endeavored to my faith destroy.
So ridiculed by all and frowned upon,
These words of Sister Snow's oft cheered me on,
"My heart is fixed I know in whom I trust."
Immortal lines, they cannot, will not rust.
Full oft I ponder'd them within my heart,
Till of my daily thoughts they formed a part,
And ever as I conned them o'er and o'er,
So ev'ry time my faith was strengthen'd more,
Nor can I help but wish their anthor blest,
Whose high resolves my youthful mind impressed,
Who "touched my heart' and wakened the desire
That God would thus my soul inspire.

How shall we e'er forget that hymn of praise
Familiar to the Saints of Latter-days,
Even "O my Father?" The exalting strain
Uplifts the spirit into heaven again,
And makes us recollect our royal birth,
However humble is our lot on earth.
Even as incense doth the song ascend
When Zion's singers' sweetest voices blend,
And as we list to the triumphant swell
We feel that "Zion prospers, all is well."

But time would fail me, nor do I desire,
To count the fruits of Zion's earliest lyre,
Enough that you have used the talent given.
And rendered back the interest due to heaven.
Ah! who shall prostitute a gift divine
To laud themselves alone in every line?
If God to one or all a gift imparts
Give Him the praise with undivided hearts;
Give Him the glory, as 'tis right we should,
By helping up the struggling multitude.
And this indeed excites our admiration
That Sister Snow has used the concentration
Of mind and body, heart and soul and brain
To build up Zion and to right maintain.
Devotion to the truth, yea, consecration,
Aloof from love of public estimation,
Has won for her a more enduring crown
Than present praise or cheaply bought renown.
	S. L. City, Jan. 21st., 1884.


[Column 1]
