She had a keen interest in women's work. In 1922 she was presented with a wrist watch by Utah women in appreciation of her work and ability. This she very highly prized. She was a charter member of the B. Y. U. Women's Organization, the Sorosis and Nelkie Reading Clubs. Dear to her heart were the twelve Alice Louise Reynolds Clubs which were organized by groups of her students and friends, for the purpose of study and cultural development and for the cementing of friendships. Since 1932 these groups have celebrated her birthday with receptions, banquets or programs. She was always gratefully appreciative of these events. She radiated the Gospel light wherever she went and was a charter member of the Yeasharah Club, which is an organization of lady missionaries.
A devoted daughter and solicitous sister she took great delight in any success or joy that came to the various members of the large family of which she was a part. Her grief at their trials and sorrows was intense. No effort on her part was ever too great if it could bring sunshine to their hearts and homes, and she always had their devotion and love. Her home was a home of interest and hospitality. Here were many treasures, valuable topics of conversation. She had collected paintings, pieces of sculpture, beautiful china, and a rare collection of autographed books, which she said was her hobby. These volumes will, as requested by her, be placed in her section of the Heber J. Grant Library.
Alice Louise Reynolds will always hold a choice place in the hearts of her friends. One of her close friends, counselor Kate M. Barker, wrote of her, "Hers was a choice spirit trained in logical thinking, gifted with exceptional power of written and oral expression, with a wonderful breadth of appreciation—a great mind and a great heart coupled with unaffected simplicity and tenderness which made her appreciated by old and young." We all miss her greatly but are thankful for her life, that she was our friend and co-worker, and feel assured that she was "Borne in a moment at the heart's last beat To realms more perfect than she dared to dream."
Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
Cycle (A Sonnet Sequence) By Helen Hinckley Jones (Awarded First Prize, Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest)
The Blossoming
Persephone returns. Her gossamer Flung light on every spring-warmed branch to dry Breathes fragrance delicate, and paints a blur Of loveliness against the rifted sky. Beside the gate the lilacs burst to flower, The roses riot golden in the lane, In ecstasy the orchard waits the hour When apple blossoms are in bloom again. And when the misty blossoms' opening Has made a fairy ceiling for our room, We children take our dolls out to the swing And play at keeping house. We love the bloom Of apple trees. We sense that mystic thing That we, like apples, blossom in the spring.
The Ripening
Demeter's pregnant breath in ray-shot haze Clings warmly where the thicket berries turn From green to dripping purple. And the days Pass slowly, rich in miracle. The burn Of sun is golden on the apricot And ruddy amber on the pear. The stems Release the rose-dipped peach; and in the lot The juice-crisp apples are Aladdin's gems. Then, when the long day sleeps and fruited limbs Stand black against moon-whitened skies, we stroll Down to the frayed old swing. My memory skims The years since first I felt the orchard's soul. And now I know beneath the apple tree The fruitful days have also come for me.
The Waiting
Cold Boreas blows. His chilly finger lays Upon earth's pulse. Her warm heart scarce can beat Against the frigid pressure. Now he plays A dirge-like tune through naked trees whose feet Are banked with rotted fruit and dying leaves. Then comes the snow. In mockery of spring Bare branches bow beneath sharp snow and sheaves Of ice fruit, in a dreary blossoming. But still the orchard calls to me, and I Must stand again beneath the apple tree; I think I hear the snow-bowed branches sigh— It's hard for mothers to wait patiently— "Where are my seeds, and will they wake and grow?" My seed is safe, and it will live I know. Oh apple mother, spent with wondering, All earth will waken in the warmth of spring.