The First Relief Society Organization in Alaska By Ann Parkinson Nibley
Before the Russians, English, Spanish, French, or Americans came to Alaska it was the country of the Indian and the Eskimo, and although today it is the white man's country, both in numbers and influence, the background of native customs and handicraft is apparent everywhere. In Ketchikan one has opportunity to see and study the weirdly carved, brightly colored totem poles, grotesque reminders of bygone days, reminders of the rich native lore which is woven so definitely into Alaska's history. "These hand-carved family trees were at no time regarded by the Alaskan Indians as idols of worship; instead, they represent the coats of arms of tribes and clans and serve to preserve and transmit ancient legends and traditions among a race with no written language." "Totemism is recorded history, genealogy, legend, and art. The genealogical pole is usually erected directly in front of its owner's house and, as the name indicates, gives the genealogy of the family within. The wife's totem crowns the top, next the husband's, and so on down. Any native passing by and seeing the pole can tell at a glance the clan of the mother, which is the ruling one of the house. From this he will know whether or not he would be welcome to enter and stay there. If the ruling family of the house is not of his totem he passes on." The Eskimos, so often thought to be native to all Alaska, are a distinct race and are seen in their native habitats only along the Bering Sea and within the Arctic Circle.
The waters of Alaska's Inside Passage, smooth as a lake, are the greatest fishing waters in the world. Northward from Juneau, across the Gulf of Alaska, as if guarding the coast line, stands the highest coastal mountain range in the world. The gigantic Fairweather mountains and Mt. St. Elias, over 18,000 feet high, are visible for miles. Boats stop at Columbia Glacier, known as the world's largest glacier visited by ocean-going steamers. This stupendous moving ice river is three miles wide where it enters the sea, extending thirty miles back into the mountains. One reads that "glaciers should not be associated with an intensely cold climate, but with continuous warm, moisture-laden winds and clouds, and high elevation, so high that the winter snows of centuries will not be entirely removed by the summer sun."
Seward, "The Gateway City," 1,856 miles from Seattle, named in honor of William H. Seward, who as Secretary of State negotiated for the purchase of Alaska from Russia for a sum of $7,200,000 is a picturesque little city, sheltered by mountain ranges 3,000 to 7,000 feet high, and located on beautiful Resurrection Bay, so named by Baranof, its discoverer, who sailed into its peaceful waters on Easter morning. From Seward the Government Railroad carries one inland 480 miles to Fairbanks. En route is Anchorage, a busy little city resting on a beautiful plateau above the waters of historic Cook's Inlet. Here several Latter-day Saints have located. Leaving Anchorage the train enters the fertile Matanuska valley, famed for its Government colonization project. One of the grandest sights in the entire world is Alaska's Mt. McKinley, the "monarch of the North American mountains." Measured in height above its immediate base Mt. McKinley is the highest peak in the world. In their native worship, the Indians called it "Mt. Denali."
Fairbanks is Alaska's "Golden Heart". Here one may have the unique experience of seeing the "Midnight Sun". We are apt to forget that within our own country's confines this wonder may be seen. In the vicinity of Fairbanks the midsummer nights are darkless, and one is tempted to continue throughout the night, sight-seeing and in activities normally associated with only daytime hours. One can see by the thickly wooded mountains, the tall green grass, wild fruits, and the immense size of the flowers, such as pansies and nasturtiums, that the sun shines overtime and must spend many sleepless nights. One can also see how easy it would be for the citizens of Fairbanks to play their annual baseball game at midnight on the 21st of June. Here on the longest day of the year sunset and sunrise are almost simultaneous, and each occurs not in the east nor west but in the north. It is during the months of May and June that this midnight sun is at its best, dipping behind the horizon for only a few hours out of the twenty-four, and seeming to pause there, just out of sight, painting the sky in soft pastels, lighting the entire countryside in the diffused rays of its reflection.
Fairbanks is an intensely interesting city with a population of 2,500 people. It has all the marks of a frontier town, still it is a city with modern, comfortable homes, many private greenhouses, up-to-date stores, and fine schools. The University of Alaska, the northernmost institution of higher education in the world, is located here. The people seem even more air-minded than they are in the States, or "outside" as Alaskans say. It is also the center of a large and active gold-producing district. Although the summer weather is warm and delightful, in winter the temperature goes down to from 50 to 65 degrees below zero. The people prepare for low temperatures by dressing warmly and building comfortable houses, many of them with double windows and doors. Fires are kept constantly burning in barns and vegetable cellars.
On the evening of July 7, 1938, President Preston Nibley and I, together with seven others, met with a group of Latter-day Saints living in this far-off territory. Three days were spent in Fairbanks among charming, cultured people. Sunday, July 10, will always be a memorable day for Latter-day Saints in Fairbanks, Alaska. Gathered together at the home of Brother and Sister Erastus Peterson, a Sunday School was held with between 25 and 30 persons attending. After Sunday School Brother Lorin T. Oldroyd was set apart to preside over the activities of the Saints in the territory of Alaska, and a branch presidency for Fairbanks was organized. Dr. Murray Shields, head of the Department of Business Administration at the University of Alaska, was made president with Erastus Peterson first counselor and L. O. Tolman second counselor. The first Relief Society in Alaska was organized with Nettie May Baker Oldroyd as president, Cornelia Staker Peterson, first counselor, and Helen Broch Shields second counselor. Sister Alethia Tolman, baptized that afternoon, was chosen to act as secretary. With the exception of Sister Tolman these sisters have had years of experience in Relief Society and Mutual work, having held positions in both ward and stake organizations. These women are capable, well known and highly respected in the community and will accomplish much good. Our Relief Society sisters here are unusually fine cooks. Can you imagine sitting down to a meal in the "heart of Alaska" of fresh lake trout, king salmon, caught in nearby streams, Alaskan grown potatoes, prepared Vienna style, creamed Alaskan grown peas, hot rolls, light as a feather, with sweet butter made at the Experimental Farm, spring salad of crisp lettuce, ripe tomatoes, cucumbers, green onions, garnished with green peppers and parsley—all grown in Fairbanks—jelly made from wild currants, and blue berries gathered from the mountains, perfect lemon pie and delicious strawberries grown on the campus of the University of Alaska, with rich thick cream separated on the Experimental farm? When one considers that bread is twenty-five cents a loaf, lettuce thirty-five cents a head, milk twenty-five cents a quart and other commodities just as high, one doesn't wonder that much time and care is spent in wholesome home cooking.
The climax of the visit to Fairbanks, according to President Nibley, came with a public meeting held in the Masonic Temple Sunday night. Over one hundred and twenty visitors and investigators came to the meeting, among them President Bunnell of the Alaska University. Testimonies of the truth of the Gospel were borne to an attentive and sympathetic audience. Sister Bowen, formerly Margaret Anderson, well known as a soloist with the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir, sang three beautiful songs, which led the editor of the newspaper to comment the following day that she was the "finest singer that had ever visited Fairbanks." Our Saints and friends in this faraway land of friendly, delightful people, unaffected by too close contact with the more crowded centers of civilization, are very dear to us. We are thankful in our hearts that we have been privileged to visit with them and organize the first Branch of the Church and the first Relief Society in the Great Territory of Alaska.