Morning Music of the Immortals By Marianne C. Sharp
Don't you come with me to a meeting of the Women's National Radio Committee? It is held in a small room high up in Steinway Hall on 57th Street in New York City. Seated in chairs around the room are women representing national organizations. Among them is a representative of our own Relief Society. The meeting is called to order by the chairman and from then on for about two hours all the discussions turn to the point, "How can women raise the level of radio?" We take up in turn children's programs, abandoned programs, music, commentators, proposed programs, etc. We learn with regret that one splendid program is to leave the air because its sponsors did not receive enough fan mail. An encouraging note, however, is struck when we hear that a famous symphony hour is to continue—primarily because it was voted the most popular in its field in the yearly poll conducted among women by the Women's National Radio Committee. Through it all runs the theme that we, the women of our country, have a great opportunity to raise the level of radio and that we are letting it go by. It seems true that the people who enjoy the best type of broadcasts are not the ones who write in commending a program, and thus a wrong picture is drawn for sponsors and radio stations alike. The women of our Church could exercise a great influence in remedying this condition. It is reported that a Utah man, high in radio circles, remarked the other day, "Utah doesn't want symphonies, it wants swing." Is this true?
It has been found that women listen to a radio as they go about doing their work in the morning. Their best hours are from eight to eleven, varying with individual circumstances. At least two local stations in New York City have taken advantage of this fact. One offers a "Master Work Hour" from nine to ten each morning. The other one has recently increased its hours of fine music. From eight to nine is a "Symphonic Hour," and from nine to ten is the "Composer's Hour" and each day a different composer is presented at which time a short synopsis of his life is given, followed by the playing of some of his compositions. We know that radio stations must make money, but we believe they will find their morning advertising more effective when good music is offered. Of this we are sure, but all our belief and desires will get us nowhere unless we make our desires known. The only way to change the present deplorable condition is for the women to write in and tell the stations that they really prefer a symphony to tunes that are here today and gone tomorrow. Ask also that when a sustaining program is broadcast it be one of a high type. As a Church we seek after every goodly thing. Certainly fine music is one of these. Shall we do our part that our souls, as well as our ears, may be stirred by music of the immortals? Let us all write our local stations and tell them in no uncertain terms that we women do want—Morning Music of the Immortals.