Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
Our perfect rainbow of today comes when the sweetness of our yesterdays blends with the hopes of our tomorrows.
Amanda Knight Hall is the name of the women's dormitory of the Brigham Young University at Provo, Utah. It is most appropriate that the benefactions of this estimable and cultured woman, Amanda McEwan Knight, should be thus recognized. Almost from the inception of the University to the time of her death Mrs. Knight was a liberal donor and patron to this excellent school of learning.
Edith N. Rodgers, Jennie Sumner, Mary T. Norton and Caroline O'Day are the only women representatives in the new Congress. Only 93 women in the whole United States came out for election to office in 1938.
Queen Maud of Norway, who died last November, was greatly loved and deeply mourned. She was the last survivor of the family of Edward VII and Alexandra of England.
Frances Rich, noted sculptress, forgot to put her name on her first monumental piece—a memorial to the Army and Navy nurses—unveiled in Arlington National Cemetery last November, but her mother, Irene Rich, screen and radio actress, took her daughter back to Washington by plane to cut her name in the stone.
Flora Clay, stewardess, played a heroine's role in a crash over the Pacific. After helping every one out of the fuselage she swam ashore but was swept back into the sea by a careening plane wing.
Lavell Christensen, 16, of Utah, was awarded a $200 scholarship at the 4-H congress at Chicago. Irene Brown of Illinois entered a young steer which she bought for $60. He was pronounced champion and sold for $3,785.50.
Alice Louise Reynolds, writer, educator and organizer, of Provo, Utah, died last month. Miss Reynolds was known nationally and internationally as an authority on English literature and for her fine judgment concerning books. She will be mourned by hundreds of friends.
Wilhelmina Rogers, 104, and Caroline Angerbauer, 93, of Utah, celebrated birthdays recently, while Mere Whaanga, 90, traveled 8,000 miles from New Zealand to spend her last days in salubrious Utah.
Pearl Buck has gone to Sweden to receive the award for literature—The Nobel Prize. She is the first American woman to have this honor.
Virginia Woolf's "Three Guineas," Sheila Kaye-Smith's "The Valiant Woman," Margaret Ayers Barnes' "Wisdom's Gate" and "Thrice A Stranger" by Vera Brittain are among the glamorous books of this last year.