AM I MY HUSBAND'S KEEPER? Mary Foster Gibbs. "Do I have to go out to this party, Betty?" "You certainly do, my dear. It is the open night for our literary club and Mrs. Alden is entertaining the club members and their husbands, with a very few invited guests. I wouldn't fail to be there for anything, nor would I have you absent. The new pianist, Agatha Liston, from Boston, will be our guest of honor, while Professor Elton is going to talk on Wagner, and Miss Liston is to illustrate his talk with selections from his operas. Think of it, my dear! Such a treat! Hurry up, and get ready." "Am I to have any supper, Betty? And where are the children?" "Oh, I took the children over to Aunt Jane's. Bobby's cold is no worse, and I could not miss this affair tonight." "Don't you think it's a Little risky to take Bobby out such a night as this, when he is quite croupy already?" "Oh, Robert, I will give everything up if you are going to begin to preach. You know I work hard and have very few pleasures." Her husband made no reply and, manlike, forgot to remember that he also worked hard and had very few so called pleasures. Instead he turned his steps toward the 
 kitchenette, where he found a little cold supper waiting for him on the kitchen table. "You know," said his excited wife, as she powdered her nose and followed him, looking-glass in hand, into the kitchenette, "you know, Robert, that we will have nice refreshments. Mrs. Alden always serves delicious 'eats.' " "Fried froth," mumbled her husband, as he hastily swallowed clammy potatoes and steak, cold and tough with waiting and long frying. "Hurry, Robert, I don't want to be late. You know I am expected to help Mrs. Alden receive her guests." "Go to Relief Society today, Betty?" "How can you ask such a question, Robert, when you know that Bobby was sick, and I had my hands full of work?" Her husband was struggling violently with an obstinate shirt stud and merely said: "How often do you go to Relief Society, anyway, my dear?" "Oh, I go when I can." "Ever miss your regular afternoon club meetings?" "Certainly not, Robert, how can I? You know we are just beginning with the new literary study, interspersed with lectures on music, and it is a real education to go to club." "Any Literary studies in your Relief Society?" • '* "Now, Robert, don't begin on that strain. We have thrashed that out over and over. I go to the Relief Society sometimes when they ask me to give a lesson. I am perfectly willing to help when I can." While fastening his tie, his eyes nearly crossed in their endeavor to glimpse the looking-glass behind his wife's back, he ventured again: "You never go to the Relief Society, do you Betty, unless they want you to go and show off by teaching a lesson?" "Oh, dear, Robert, I don't see why you talk that way. If you would just go to the Relief Society occasionally you would realize how inadequate such associations are for a woman of intellectual tastes and cultural aspirations." Betty was, meanwhile, adding a touch of rouge to her pale cheeks and deepening the color of her lips with a darker line of red. Her husband saw the process out of the tail of his eye, but made no comment thereon. He could but admire the charming picture she made posturing before the glass. Meanwhile his lovely wife with her dark brown hair, coiffed over her small ears in braids and curls and shining with brilliant hair ornaments, was tucking down her under AM I MY HUSBAND'S KEEPER 457 wear preparatory to donning a delicate evening dress which lay upon the bed. "What's this;  what's this, Betty? That neck looks too low to me, and I don't see any sleeves at all on your pretty white arms. They look mighty sweet to me, but you know that isn't the thing for people in this Church." Swinging round at once before putting the dress on, his wife said sharply: "Robert Wilson, you know just as well as I do that I love my religion, in a way, and I am just as good a woman as you are a man. Don't I go to meetings sometimes and help in your old Relief Society, when I can, and have my children when none of the rest of the women in our set will stand it to be mother to more than one or two at the utmost? Now don't go preaching about my low neck and no sleeves. You just ought to see Elder Jones' daughter, and in fact, all the younger set when they go to parties." Clothed, then, in his right mind, and his full-dress evening suit, her husband said, seriously: "Well, Betty Wilson, I do see the younger set on the street and I must say I am rather ashamed of the whole lot of girls with their dresses up to their knees and down to their corset tops." "You needn't be ashamed, Robert, for my conscience don't upbraid me one bit. I don't run you in debt;  I don't criticise my neighbors, and I try to make a pleasant home for you and my babies. If I never do anything worse than turn down my undergarments a little I guess the Lord will forgave me. So come along, for we will be late if we don't hurry. Give me a kiss and forget and forgive." Lulled by her warm affection he forgot, as usual, the cause of his concern, and together they left the house. The brilliant parlors were aglow with lights and the subdued rustle of the arriving guests, when the Wilsons entered the vestibule. Mingling with the crowd were several invited gentlemen, one of whom, Alonzo Vorhees by name, a rich, dissipated young bachelor, came hastily up to greet lovely Betty Wilson. She glimmered and sparkled under his fascinated gaze and felt the enchantment of his admiration, albeit expressed rather boldly by word and look. Robert Wilson wandered restlessly from room to room. He listened with bored ears to the lecture on Wagner and fell asleep several times, for he was very tired, while the pianist from Boston mangled "The Ride of Valkyries" and pounded restlessly up and down the keys in search of Parsifal's Holy Grail. He must have been asleep in his little sheltered alcove for some time, for when he finally awakened, 
 he knew from the pleasant confusion in the rooms beyond him that the lecture was over and the cultured guests were congratulating the performers and each other on the very delightful and charming evening which all had enjoyed. "Hello, Brother Meade," said a voice on the other side of Robert's curtain, "how comes it that a serious-minded Church official like yourself is here in this gay bevy of worldly pleasure-seekers?" "Oh," answered the other, "I was dragged here by my sister-in-law. I have enjoyed the lecture and the music pretty well, although I have heard better, but I am certainly shocked at the appearance of some of our sisters here tonight." "Yes," said the first speaker, "I am a little surprised myself. I have been watching Betty Wilson all the evening, flirting outrageously with that stranger Vorhees. Somebody suggested that she was adopting him as an affinity. Where is her husband, I wonder?" There was a little pause in the speech of the two men and Robert Wilson determined that he would step forward, when he heard the second man say with hesitation and some pain in his voice: "I am disappointed in Robert Wilson. He is a member of our high council and he certainly is gifted in speech and with his pen, as well as being very faithful in attending to the duties assigned him in the Church. I have felt that he was in line for higher trusts, greater responsibilities, but the follies of his wife give his friends considerable occasion for wonder and criticism. If he has no more control in his family than to countenance his wife in her scandalous appearance tonight, painted and powdered and with very little on her body, how can anyone expect him to control a ward or a stake, if such responsibility were placed upon him? Men who cannot stand for right and principle in their own homes will not be able to do much outside of it. Now, you know " The speakers moved away and Robert Wilson stood with clenched hands, feeling that life had dealt him the severest blow he might ever receive. "Come home, Betty," he said finally, reaching his wife and roughly seizing her arm, "come home!" "What's the matter, Robert? Is Bobby worse? What is it?" "Maybe so, I don't know. Come home — I say — come, or I shall go without youx " "Of all the stupid reasons " But she followed, still