CLASS IN CHARITIES AND RELIEF WORK 439 eral boards, were special guests of the B. Y. U. Summer School. Three members from each of the special groups called to take courses, were asked to give two-minute speeches on what the work had meant to them. Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, of Boise stake, Mrs. Ruth Hilton of Blackfoot stake, and Mrs. Inez H. Lee of St. Joseph stake, very ably represented the Relief Society class, giving in a few words, what to each of them were the important features of the summer's work. The Utah stake Relief Society gave a delightful social and lawn party in honor of the Relief Society class, at the beautiful home of Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Knight. The home, with the spacious lawn, had been tendered for the purpose, and the members of the class were delighted with the privilege of meeting Brother and Sister Knight, and of spending an evening in their attractive home. The teachers of the course, with the Utah stake board, arranged for an afternoon's outing for the class at Spring Dell, in Provo canyon, where a visit was made to the Y. L. M. I. A. Summer Camp for girls, and to the attractive canyon homes of President and Mrs. George H. Brimhall, Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Knight, and Mr. and Mrs. Lester Mangum, which had been thrown open to them. Supper was served on the grass plot at Spring Dell. At the close of the course, the members of the Relief Society class presented their teachers with beautifully bound books of poems, Mrs. Sarah A. Farr, the senior member of the class, making the presentation speech. At the request of Superintendent Adam Bennion, committees were selected from students of each of the special courses. Relief and Charities, Recreation Leadership, and Teacher Training, to make recommendations with regard to how the work given at the summer school, might be carried back to the respective stakes and wards. Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, president of Blaine stake, was chosen chairman of the Relief Society committee on recommendations. With the exception of two or three who entered the class late, all of those registered passed the examination successfully, and the members of the class who asked to be considered for college credit, were successful in receiving credit to the amount of six hours on a regular college course. Stakes were represented as follows: Alberta, Annia D. Snow;  Alpine, Mary Cooper, Elizabeth J. Durrant;  Bannock, Myrtle McGregor;  Bear Lake, Ada Mathews;  Bear River, Delia Marriott;  Beaver, Elizabeth Mumford;  Benson, Miss Rae Miles;  Big Horn, Alice Wardell;  Bingham, Exie Soelberg;  Blackfoot, Ruth Hillam;  Blaine, Laura J. Adamson;  Boise, 
 Bessie Hale;  Box Elder, Ellen B. Valentine;  Burley, M. E. McKibben;  Carbon, Mary E. Pace;  Cassia, Fanny Garringe;  Cottonwood, Rachel Shepherd;  Curlew, Inez R, Haws;  Deseret, Alice L. Gardner;  Duchesne, Lucreatia M. Evans;  Emery, Leva Luke;  Ensign, Cecelia Barker;  Fremont, Ada H. Walker;  Granite, Agnes M. Bolto;  Hyrum, Lovisa Allen;  Idaho, Clover M. Kelly;  Jordon, Connie Lovett;  Juab, Unity Chappell;  Juarez, Maggie I. Bently;  Malad, Martha S. Holbrook;  Maricopa, Hazel D. Vance, Emma Rollins;  Montpelier, Agnes Pearce;  Morgan, Daisy Crouch;  Nebo, Ada K. Jackman;  North Davis, Cecil Harris;  North Sanpete, Ellis Coombs;  North Weber, O. M. Drumiler;  Ogden, Lucile Foulger;  Oneida, Alveretta Engar;  Pioneer, Mrs. Mamie Forbes;  Pocatello, Maria Hyde;  Portneuf, Sarah A. Farr;  Rigby, Mary A. Nelson;  Salt Lake, Elizabeth C. Williams;  San Juan, Margaret Perkins;  San Luis, Martha Haskell;  Sevier, Loretta Robinson;  Shelley, Minda M. Cutler;  Snowflake, Thalia Kartchner;  South Davis, Rose J. Knowlton;  South Sanpete, Sarah Tooth;  Star Valley, Gladys B. Gardner;  St. George, Josephine Miles;  St. Johns, Joyce Udall;  St. Joseph, Inez H, Lee;  Summit, Margaret E. Pack;  Teton, Hannah G. Hegstead;  Tintic, Zina Fuller;  Twin Falls, Ann Roberts;  Uintah, Zina Searle;  Utah, Henrietta Smart, Mrs. George E. Whitehead Wasatch, ;  Lily L. Duke;  Wayne, Tirza Hansen;  Weber, Agnes H. Stevens;  Woodruff, Violet Gerard.