and keep it in a constant state of turmoil. The monthly action of the tides as they swell and sink, break it up so that all over the millions of square miles of frozen crust are pressure. Ridges that ' often reach to mountainous heights. The spring thaw which expands the whole cap, causes vast fields of ice to break loose and start on their way to the Pacific and Atlantic oceans. If these fields strike a contrary current, they are veered out of their way, and jammed into other masses. Or if they meet one of the great Arctic cyclones that spring up in any quarter and blow in any direction, they are hurled back with terrific velocity and sent crashing into other masses with a cataclysmic roar and impact of colliding islands. Should two such great fields, of perhaps fifty miles in length, be driven thus into each other, they catch between them other smaller masses such as floes, icebergs, blocks and rubble, and these, pressed together in the squeeze, are almost instantly welded by the never-ceasing action of the frost. The result is a surface of indescribable chaos, which is difficult and often impossible to cross. The popular picture of the Arctic traveler seated comfortably upon his sledge and skimming over the ice behind a flying dog team is very far from the truth, for while the natives, who stay on beaten routes, do this sometimes, the explorer who leaves his base of supplies far behind, must use every inch of space on his sledge for provisions and equipment, while he himself "foots it" alongside, running on skiis if the ice is smooth enough, but oftener struggling over jagged ice and through deep snow, stumbling and slipping, lifting and pushing to get his outfit along, and sometimes actually hewing a path with pick and ice axe where the way is impassable. Although the Polar sea can be crossed only by feet or wings, there is a period during the summer thaw when ships can penetrate the great ice pack, and by following certain routes, travel far within the Arctic circle. But it is a perilous undertaking, for then mountainous masses of ice in the form of floes and icebergs are traveling rapidly southward, and may in a twinkling crush a ship as if it were an egg shell. When Peary sailed the Roosevelt to North Greenland, warned by his long years of experience with the Arctic ice, he had emergency supplies fastened to the rail of the. Upper deck and every man instructed to seize a bundle and leap if the dreaded crush came and there were any ice nearby on which to leap. And though officers of long Artic experience stood at the helm, Peary himself 'remained beside them day and night, tense with anxiety, while they steered through the dangerous ice of Kane Sea and Robeson Channel. When exploring parties have gone into the Arctics, it has always been the plan to travel by ship during the Summer to the highest point possible, and remain through the Winter to be ready for operations in the early Spring. Sometimes the ships after un-