THE LAND OF NORTHERN LIGHTS 57 loading turned back, sometimes remained to make a winter home for the party. By Fall it was frozen solidly into the ice, a fixed object in the world as immovable as if made of iron. But when the long night began to wane, strange movements were felt in the ice. Then how anxiously the men waited, listening for the ominous roar, fearing the shudder from beneath that told of the approach of the dread "nip," when the icy floor beneath them, caught in the squeeze between vast fields of ice, might be driven through the vitals of their ship, or amid a fearful dinning, huge walls pileup to, topple upon it. Thankful indeed were the company if their vessel received only a severe shaking up and escaped the fate of hundreds of others, caught and crushed like splinters in the mighty vise of nature. But if the good ship that carried the company was in jeopardy from the treachery of the ice, for the man who left it and set off afoot over the frozen sea, a danger far more menacing awaited in the form of the fissures or leads which appear in a constantly shifting network over the face of the Polar sea. These fissures might be of any width, from a mere garden ditch to that of a mighty river. But whether wide or narrow they were the nightmare of the Polar traveler, for they might open suddenly beneath his feet and drop him into the sea beneath. That more lives were not lost in this way was due to the fact that often a part of the outfit held on the firm ice beyond, and offered a support by which the traveler could pull himself to safety. _ The Arctic night! Strange phenomenon of the Polar world when the cold falls to incredible depths and darkness like prison walls closes down upon the landscape. Then nerves grow taut, and if they are not naturally strong may go to pieces, for the nervous system suffers from the absence of the actinic rays found in the sunlight. But if the Polar night proves a strain on mind and body, the dawn is more so, for then no shadows are cast, and in the midst of the all-white landscape, the traveler stands uncertain and fearful, unable to tell whether the next step will carry him up an incline or over the face of a precipice. When the Polar day comes what a relief! Yet even this season is not without its drawbacks, as this note from Peary's Secrets of Polar Travel indicates: "During the summer months the sun shines continuously, and its brilliance is intensified a hundred fold by its reflection from endless fields of glistening snow, unbroken by a single dark object. The strongest eyes are unable to withstand the blinding glare, and we are compelled to wear heavy smoked glasses and to sleep with our eyes bound in strips of fur." The winter cold of the Arctics is of great severity, frequently falling to such depths as sixty and seventy degrees below zero. However, this may be endured if the right kind of clothes are worn 
 and the traveler provides himself with fuel oil and proper shelter. During the Summer, grass and flowers grow in the valleys, and so favorable is this season to life that such an eminent authority as Stefansson predicts for certain regions of Canada and Siberia population and wealth growing out of the reindeer and ovibo. Industries. But the explorer with whom this article deals had to push far from the sheltered places and in all kinds of weather; and frostbite, with its too frequent aftermath of gangrene, amputation and death, has been one of the tragedies of the Arctics. Before the day of radio and airplane, every expedition that pushed into the heart of the Polar world took with it the thought of possible starvation, for though fish and game are plentiful, because of their migratory habits, they are not always to be found in a given region, and well did the expeditionary forces know that in that frozen wilderness, separated from civilization by a thousand dangerous miles, no immediate succor might reach them should accident take away their stores of food, or unexpected delay hold them beyond the time for which they were provisioned. And though an expedition might remain in the Arctics two or three years without suffering, might in favorable years "live off the country," as Stefansson states that it is possible to do, yet the ghosts of the dead were there to remind the expeditionary force of past history, and never till they emerged from the ice pack could they forget such episodes as the fate of the Franklin and Greeley parties, the destruction of the Karluk, Nansen struggling in the ice of the Polar sea, Shackleton losing the prize of a Pole for want of a few pounds of food, death and suffering and frustrated hope coming when the last ration was eaten and the great whiteness refused to hear their cry for food. In view of the dangers and discomforts of Arctic travel, one is led to ask, What are the motives that take men into those hostile regions, that have kept the civilized world struggling for four hundred years in an effort to reach the top of the earth? The answer is found in a number of motives, among them the desire to gain scientific knowledge, to discover new waterways, and acquire new territory; the appeal to beauty found in fairy landscapes and fantastic carvings of ice and snow; the Aurora Borealis and fantastic tricks of the mirage that uses both earth and sky for its playground. But mere than all, the presence of the white man in the Arctics is inspired by his love of adventure and that intellectual curiosity that keeps him toiling in laboratories, traveling over the face of perilous seas, investigating, searching, forever dissatisfied until the unknown becomes known, the unconquerable is conquered, and nature surrenders her most jealously-guarded secrets to his insatiable appetite for knowledge. But though a variety of motives might call men there, those who succeeded had all to be of stern fibre,—men who could face death and danger at every turn, stand up under severe physical strain, THE LAND OF NORTHERN LIGHTS Be) renounce the comforts of civilization to accept hunger, cold, isolation, the stern regime of the Arctic diet made harder by such primitive methods of living as Arctic work calls for. The venture has ever demanded men of Spartan mold, and these, playing their parts upon the chill stage of the Arctic world, have enacted a drama so full of romance and adventure, of heroic deed and epic enterprise, that no fiction can outdo it. To attempt to deal with that entire drama in a single article would be impossible, therefore we shall mention only a few names and events of our own day, and hope that the reader will find time and inclination to go into the whole story, from the stirring Arctic experiences of such gallant adventurers as Hudson and Baffin and Barents, to the glorious winged deeds of the Byrd and Amundsen-Ellsworth parties, which have opened a new epoch in the history of Polar exploration. The period of modern civilization in the Arctics may be said to have begun with the middle of the last century, when Great Britain, eager to find a shorter route to Asia than that which lay around Cape Horn, fitted out an expedition under the leadership of the distinguished Arctic explorer, Sir John Franklin, to discover if possible whether an open water route existed across the top of North America. That expedition of two ships and nearly one hundred and forty men, crossed the Atlantic, and after being sighted near Hudson Bay, was never seen or heard from again. England, alarmed at the failure of the party to appear in the stipulated two years, sent out a relief ship which returned without finding a trace of the missing company. Thereupon was started a search which lasted ten years, was participated in by other nations than Great Britain, and called to the Arctic lands and waters of America forty expeditions. A few meagre scraps of information gathered from an Eskimo tribe, and a brief record found in a cache, told the terrible story of the death from sickness and starvation of the entire Franklin party, after more than two years of besetment in the ice. But that greatest of all Arctic tragedies did not end with the death of the Franklin party, for a number of expeditions that went to their rescue met with suffering and disaster and were themselves in need of relief. However, much good came in the end from their efforts, for while they were searching they were also observing, mapping and gathering scientific data, with the result that in ten years a greater work was done in exploring the regions north of America than might otherwise have been accomplished in a century. As Great Britain is the greatest maritime nation of the world, so also has she led in Polar exploration, and to the task has ever brought those qualities of courage, faithfulness and fair play that so characterize the British people. After so many years of extensive and thorough effort in both the Arctics, it seems the irony of fate that other nations should claim the honor of discovering the Poles; yet out of her very defeat in reaching the South Pole 
 came a great victory, for the manly conduct and heroic death of the Scott party brought a lasting glory to the British nation by showing how her sons could die. _ As for the Norwegians, it seems exactly right that they should be the first at the center of a frozen world, for they themselves are the children of ice and snow, and must understand the spirit of those inscrutable white wastes as people of temperate zones cannot do. The whole Norwegian race is typified in their distinguished countryman, Amundsen, and on his voyage through the Northwest Passage, his dash to the South Pole, and his great flight across the top of the world, there went not only the scientist and serious-minded explorer, but the Viking of the days of Eric, to. Whom the icy blue sea was as a sweetheart, and adventure the very breath of life. Of a number of other nations that have done notable work in Arctic exploration we shall make particular mention of only one, —our own, which we naturally feel a special interest in and which deserves recognition because of its discovery of the North Pole. Although the United States did not enter upon the Arctic stage until the Franklin tragedy called them there, yet Yankee seamen had for many years been cruising in Arctic waters in pursuit of the whaling and fur industries. When Lady Franklin sent her appeal to America for help in searching for her husband, an expedition was sent under the leadership of Dr. Elisha Kane, which, despite great suffering and misfortune, pushed far into the Arctics and discovered the sea which bears the leader's name. Dr. Kane was a scholar as well as a brave man and an able explorer, and his journal of his Arctic experiences is a tale of vivid interest, as fascinating to read today as it was fifty years ago. Such episodes as the fate of the Jeanette and her company, the desperate experiences of the Greeley party, the enforced journey of the Polaris crew on their ice floe prison,—these and many others tell the price which Americans have paid for their participation in Arctic work. But their contribution to the world's knowledge of Polar conditions has been considerable, their conduct under the strain of hard conditions, that of brave men, and among them stands one who, in the tenacity of purpose with which he pursued his aim, stands at the head of the great and gallant company of all ages and countries of those who have played a part on the difficult stage of the Arctics. For twenty-three years Robert E. Peary, discoverer of the' North Pole, struggled with the implacable forces-of the Polar world, and in that struggle was driven back time after time to return to civilization with his funds gone, his body scarred and maimed, the memory of cruel hardships in his mind and on his lips the bitter story of defeat. But for every time he was driven back, he arose and returned to the struggle, fighting with such skill and strength, such fortitude and determination, that at last every obstacle was overcome and there marched to victory one of the most indomitable spirits the world has ever known. - THE LAND OF NORTHERN LIGHTS 61 If you would know the price which the Arctics can exact, read the various chapters of Peary's work there,—the great trek across the Greenland ice cap, when, deserted by his natives, facing blizzard and cold of 56 degrees below zero, he struggled across a frozen Sahara six hundred miles wide, where foot of man had never trodden. Then back over the dread wastes, exhausted and starving, running a race with death in which the foe lost only by the narrowest of margins. Or again read the chapter of failure and suffering, when, headed Poleward on his sixth trip to the Arctics, he lay for six weeks in a deserted hut, through the cold and darkness of the Arctic night, with both feet frozen; and suffered not only the blighting of his hopes but the pain and permanent disablement that came from the amputation of eight toes. Or if you would know the dangers of travel by foot over the Polar sea, read the story of the seventh expedition, when the company, having attained the highest point then reached on earth's surface, were driven back by failing strength and lack of food, to find that the great storm which had destroyed their hopes had also smashed the ice into an indescribable chaos. Hewing their way through a wilderness of domes and blocks and ridges, skating once for two miles over ice so thin that it swayed beneath. Their feet and fell away behind them into the black maw of the sea,—thus desperately step by step they retreated to their ship, and from there back to civilization to tell once more the bitter story of defeat. Of such is the web of woof of Arctic history,—a brave tale enacted by a tribe of men to whom the world has given too little of the praise which is their due. And now upon the Arctic stage appears the bird man, circling the Pole and back to his base in a few hours, winging his way above continent-wide spaces where human foot never trod. And with his advent the chapter of the past closes, and a new era has begun, heralded by the great flights of last Spring, which are not only glorious fulfilments of prophecy, but prophecies themselves of what the future holds. The next few years will see air routes established across the top of the world, all unexplored regions brought under observation, and Arctic history made at a tempo that the man of sledge and dog team days never dreamed of. Yet the fund of scientific knowledge gathered by the past concerning Arctic conditions is tremendous, and those who amassed it represented types of manhood that the future, though it will doubtless equal, is not likely to excel. And so the story of Arctic exploration deserves to be preserved, placed among the great hero tales of our literature, read as a thrilling story of adventure, a fascinating treatise upon one of the most interesting regions of the world, and a saga of human effort that supports our faith in-man and his possible destiny to hold dominion over the earth and all things that are in it.