in the pure white linen of his tunic, while upon the flowing dark brown of his glossy hair there rested only the small skull-cap which was but a covering for the crown of his blossoming head. His noble features were regular, his nose had that full and long contour that bent as the line swept down his face to give the full benignity which his glowing brown eyes with the covert kindliness in their depths warranted. The mouth was large and firm, as befitted such a prince, and on the firm, clear-cut chin, there sat the seal of self-command. He justified the incoherent epithets of praise which were preceding the voluble visitor up the long and tiresome stairs. "Thou ziggurat among men — thou sun-tressed god, thou beaming eye-lighted tower — thou faithful friend and deathless lover — where art thou?" At that moment, the bowed and crooked form of the old Tarshish traveler emerged into view under the cooling rays of twilight, followed by a concourse of men and women, slaves and servants of the palace, who were always wonderfully attracted by Javanu the Tarshish ambassador, trader in slaves and stuffs, and general distributor of news from Babylon to Ur. The old man tossed his dark tunic to his own slave who followed closely behind with a short javelin in his hand with which he prodded any of the too-curious who might press upon his master. 
 "Welcome," said Abram heartily, "thou friend of my youth — thou minister of my body's wants, when chance has brought me under thy roaming tent-roof, in desert ruin or by the cities' marts. Thou art always welcome, Javanu. Come hither, then!" So saying, Abram stretched out his hand and drew the old man into his embrace, and then on within his vaulted roof-chamber, the library. There, Javanu was bidden to lie and rest for a few moments while his slave fanned his face or brought water to cleanse and rest his now unsandaled feet. The crowd remained without, but Eliezer was bidden within. "Nay," said Abram, as Eliezer sought to wash the traveler's feet, "mine shall be the task to thus minister to the friend who hath never scrupled to minister so to me whenever time or distance hath brought about our meeting." The crowd without heard Javanu's loud protestations. "Japheth has not forgotten how to wag his tongue," said one young lusty torch-bearer in the fringe of the crowd, "even to this last and fourth generation." "And he'll be ready with great tales of war and cannibalism in the districts now infested by the Lydians," said an old woman whose gleaming white teeth and crinkly hair betrayed her own close relations with the Cushites and Lydians. "Tut," cried a white-haired woman beside her, "thou art ever too greedy for tales of murders and flowing blood. For my part, I know no reason why we should seek or hunt out sorrow; we have quite enough in Terah's palace on the hill." "Who speaks of murder, thou crone? I know not whether life is better kept or given up. When Elkanah cries out for atoning blood, there's no lack of offers to give that blood." "More shame to the apostate gods of the Ziggurat, say I," stoutly maintained the white-haired crone. "I have lived to see our Father Terah's posterity themselves corrupted by the idolatrous practices of these Assyrian gods." The voice of the old woman had a low and musical thrill, her eyes were very bright under her shaggy brows, and as she swayed to and fro upon her squatting body, her tones awakened in her hearers' hearts vast stores of long-forgotten memories. She had the power of the seer of visions. The women and children in the outer circle crowded closer as she spoke, and with their simple credulity, they waited eagerly for her to break out in one of the long-forgotten chants of the olden time. She had once been a free woman, and worshiped with her kinsman Terah. For this, she was treated with a grave respect amongst them all. She was not a slave; her father had sold her into bondage while she was still quite young. "It made my blood run thick this night when the Princess Ischah persuaded the little Irit and the three black daughters of A PRINCE OF UR. 457 Azzi-jaami, Argob, Shammash and Edra, to go to the Pavilion of the Sacred Pavement; it will lead them to the sacrificial altar of Ishtar." "Why would the wenches not sit willingly then on the sacred pavement of Mylitta? They preened themselves on the teachings of our Princess Sarai, and felt that their chastity was of such value to them that death would be preferable," said the scornful voice of a lusty young black. "Then, they and we must e'en be satisfied," remarked a huge brown fellow, with the placid fatalism of the Assyrian, "if they pay the penalty with their lives." "I doubt me that the sacrifice will come to pass, if Prince Abram learns of Ischah's betrayal." "Who, then, is Abram?" quoth the black slave impudently. Just then, the distant blowing of a trumpet sounded the rising of the moon in the east and this sacred summons called them all to flee below, that each might be prostrated before his idol when the moment for the midnight sacrifice of Elkanah was offered. The public temple itself was far across the city from where the palace of Terah stood, while Abram's temple courts could not thus be polluted. Within the vaulted chamber, Abram sat at converse with his friends. "My prince," cried the old man in jovial tones, "thou must let me tell all my best news first, for thou knowest my face was not cut from a burial cloth, and I have little joy in tales of war and grim death, except to tease the frightened maids or ruffle up the doughty back of some callous youth. I ne'er would let my tongue repeat the stories of the crime-invested lands where oft my business carries me, were it not thus necessary." "Say on, good friend; my lips may not chase smiles from east to west across my face as thine are wont to do, but I still have joy in all the lighter phases of this mystery we call life. Say on — " "Then, say I, friend and Prince, that if thou hast not taken to wife the Princess Sarai by now, that thou art more than foolish. For there are such and such bright offers even now under my tunic from royal princes of Egypt and of Gerar, that thine own offer will look like smoke beside the flame or agate when the lapis-lazuli sends the agate's dim and dusty gleaming into shadows. See, see!" He brought forth five royal tablets in their clay envelopes, each envelope sealed with the royal sign and nail print. Abram's face clouded with a slow and mounting blush. "Tush," he said, in such low and stern accents that were it not that Japheth's son was made of steel inside his merry outer rim, Javanu would have shrunk from going on with his tale. "Tush and tush again, my doughty friend. Thy courage is 
 never wanting when a foeman looks thee in the eye; thy hand cannot find thy javelin half quick enough if the terrible lion roars or shows his slinking form. Why shouldst thou wait and fear and shake, as if a south west wind had stricken all thy joints? Did not the goddess Ishtar touch thy youthful veins with molten silver when this very day thou must have seen thy father's workmen fashion her from wood or cunning bronze? How now, my handsome friend and prince. Thine own renown hath gone from out thy palace walls to far-off Ethiopia; thy skill with letters, and the learning of thy brilliant head, thy manly grace and charm, thy riches and thy great estate hath all combined to make thee such a prize as is discussed behind a thousand closed lattices in wide Damascus palaces, in Egyptia's halls and in Nineveh itself, the daughters of the mighty Nimrod have petitioned me again and yet again to repeat the many points of interest of the mystic nameless prince as spouse and master. None but I knew that thou were both Abram and the nameless prince; but even so all love thee." "I thank thee not for this, thou cunning friend, for thou hast never had my first consent to hawk my name about in ladies' harems or to name my name as Abram or the nameless prince, in any court where trade or intrigue might lead thy wandering feet. I am ashamed of thee!" Whereat, the vaulted roof of that solemn sanctuary echoed again and again to the peals of laughter which rang from out the wide throat of that traveled and shrewd ambassador. "Thou wouldst make the gods laugh on their stony pedestals. I never saw thee matched for modesty. What sense of anger canst thou cultivate for a friend who yet hath waited for the first time to name thee in any conversation which was between me and others. I know thy shrinking sense of dread for worldly fame and worldly preferment; dost think that I would scandalize thy friendship by praising thee in delicate numbers for the pleasure of a dozen silly princesses? Be truer to my nature. I can laugh to see thee such a simple man when thou hast every reason to be different. But thou must not accuse me falsely." The face of the young man beside him gradually calmed, as Abram felt that his quick words had almost wounded his best friend. " 'Tis thus, my prince," the old man said, rising on his elbows on the divan the better to see his friend's face in the heavy gloom. "Abram," at length spoke the older man, "thy beauteous, young cousin hath been sought in marriage by six of the highest reigning kings and potentates of the earth. Her beauty and her charm are known as far as are your own kingliness. And what is more, if thou hast not the courage of thy love, when thy father Terah returns, he will quickly settle all this matter." A PRINCE OF UR. 459 "Terah? My father? Hast thou knowledge of him?" The tones of Abram's voice were vibrant with suppressed emotion. "Aye, that I have. He accompanies to this city our great founder and Emperor Nimrod, who hath just humbled in the dust the last of the old Assyrian rebels. Nimrod will himself dedicate the new Ziggurat tomorrow night, or next. Nimrod hath now wholly given himself up to riotous idolatry, and to Elkanah. With Nimrod's powerful hold upon this land, not a single king dare stand up in defiance before him. Old as he is, he hath slain his tens of thousands of lions, and hath thundered and crashed down the sands of Babylon and Syria with a conqueror's heel. Thousands of victims, slaves and princes, crowded his train with victims for the altars of Babylon. Thy father hath drunk of the wine of Nimrod's fornications, and he is just now not in any mood to brook any opposition from thee. Be very ware. One false step, one word of unwisdom will precipitate such rebellion and sedition in these palace walls as will make your courtyards run with blood. I wish that thou wouldst leave this wicked city, this fetid plain. There is a land, far to the west, that thou couldst inhabit." "Javanu, thou hast come in time. I thank thee for this warning. I have often thought with longing upon my mighty kinsman Melchizedek, who dwells in Salem. I would that I might return to him, and receive his promised blessings. As for thee, thou mayst hide it from others, but thy smiling presence is an evidence that thou hast spared neither oar nor camel in thy flight to thus bespeak me in my hour of trial. I understand; thou knowest how I worship, how my father Terah has always worshiped till his senile years, when he has allowed himself to be drawn into such unholy alliances. Nimrod may be the mightiest king in all the earth." The light from the sanctuary gathered softly round the kingly form of Abram, as the darkness without helped to focus its bright rays upon the upright figure of the youthful prince. "But, Javanu, there is a King, whom I have worshiped, who dwells in the heavens, who hath all the mighty attributes and powers which my father's idols of wood and stone are made to typify. I know that God lives, and though my bones were burnt in the furnace of Merodach, or crushed under the iron altar of the god Elkanah, I could not deny Him in whom I have life and breath." The intensity of the ringing voice, the magnetism of his tones, the glistening eyes and the uplifted arm swept through the brain and heart of the Damascan, with an electrical shock. Javanu himself was profoundly moved. "Master," said Eliezer, softly, "sit down here beside us; tell us of this God, about whom you have spoken. I would know more. Speak of Him. My heart burns to know Him better. A 
 God who could fashion and bless an Abram is one that should be worshiped." The three men paused in their midnight communions. From below, somewhere in the vast precincts of the palace, there arose the faint wail of the dead. It rose and fell upon the midnight air with keen, yet faint, persistence. The death chant was thrilling in this solemn gloom, and all three men felt the tremor of uncanny suggestions as they listened to the long drawn out cries. They rose higher and higher, the weird minor tones carrying on the sound-waves a very burden of woe and despair. "Who is dead in the palace? Does not the wailing come from the slave-quarters," asked Abram of himself, and yet he spoke aloud. "Under your father's vast roof-tree, where ten hundred souls sleep nightly, and the hundreds more go and come upon the errand of duty or love, it must happen very often that death and sorrow pierce the gathered throngs in some spot." "True, but even so, my soul is harrowed always with the sorrows of my family and my tribe. They are even as my own. I cannot pass over their merest mischance lightly. How sharp is the pang when some mother lays down her little child, or a son closes the eyes of his beloved father." "Good prince, I would not lessen thy humanity. It is uncommon enough in these latter days of sin and crime. Life is very cheap, my friend, in all Assyria and Babylonia. Time was when we were nurtured by the fathers of our race with all tender loving care. But in these last degenerate days, we are very careless of the slave-worm which crawls beneath our tent, or curls within our palace walls. The blood of prince or husbandman is pre; cious but the spawn of slave markets is too cheap for counting, eh?" The effort to lighten his friend's sadness was not successful. With a heavy sigh, Abram prepared to descend into the great courtyards and to discover for himself the causes of the midnight woe. Out in the distant horizon, there swept the silent battalions of the incoming host of Nimrod's army. They were so swift and shadowy in their cool and flying march across the plains of the Euphrates, that even the lions and wild beasts of the sands and groves scarce lifted up their shaggy manes to growl as they passed. "What ho! for Ur of Chaldee!" cried the swift forerunners of the king's own division. "What ho! for Ur!" echoed back the swift galloping soldiers behind them. "What ho for Ur!" cried the giant Nimrod in his chariot, borne along by powerful sweep of a dozen white horses, their brass panopoly glittering gayly in the rising moonbeams, and the golden accourtements of the huge