Faded Memory Alice R. Rich A note of Irish laughter as lilting as a breeze And delicate as perfume in April apple trees, Waked when a sprig of shamrock, green as the emerald sea, Released a faded memory and tossed its breath to me. Page 20] A Family Ys What You Bake Lt Elsie Sim Hansen HE other night, much to my surprise, my husband came home with a loaf of bread tucked under his arm. | As soon as he placed the bread down on the corner of the kitchen table, I knew it had not come from the market. I also noticed Jim was grinning. As I picked up the bread, I asked, "Jim, where did you get this? It looks like homemade whole wheat.". Flipping a loose curl on the back of my neck, Jim answered, "It is, honey. We had a demonstration down at the store today. 'This bread was left, and Miss Mead, the demonstrator, told me to take it home. It sure is good, I had a sample. You know, Marge, I was just thinking on my way home, mother used to make bread like this when I was a kid. I wonder why more women don't do their own baking nowadays. Why don't you try it sometime?" Jim had given me an idea. Why shouldn't I try making some bread? It probably wouldn't be as light as that we had been eating, but it might help out on our budget. The next morning, after the. Children had left for school, I got out my recipe book and decided to try my luck. I was really surprised how simple the recipe was. Of course, it took a little practice. Some of the maneuvers I went through getting the bread mixed to the proper consistency would have made good material for a comic book, but the results were worth it. There was something so wholesome and appetizing about the aroma of that homemade bread when I opened the oven door it made me tingle all over, like the smell of chili sauce cooking on a crisp autumn day, when I would be walking home from high school. That same day, after school, I wished that an artist could have been in my kitchen and painted a picture of my young son, as he took the first man-sized bite out of a warm slice of the golden brown bread, laden with honey. I am sure it would have been a masterpiece. I shall never be too busy from now on to make bread, because I have learned that a wealthy, happy family, is a healthy, well-fed family. ——