[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Continued]

ebienetee ae Literature of England Lesson 36—Charles Dickens (Continued) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: David Copperfield) For Tuesday, January 19, 1954
Objective: To gain a greater appreciation of Dickens through a study of his autobiographical novel David Copperfield. Dickens' Religious Convictions C)FTENTIMES Dickens has been criticized because his characters are flat; never do we see into their minds as they contemplate a plan and repent. 'This charge is as true of his characters as it is of Dickens himself, and of the millions of people who have loved his writings as well. As we implied in our first lesson, Dickens had no desire to brood long hours in self-examination, nor did he need to. For him life was throbbing with action, excitement, people, parties, tragedy, sadness, friendship. With unquestioning fervor, Dickens knew that life is good, or is meant to be. Dickens spoke out for most Englishmen when he affirmed life's happiness, and when he vanquished evil characters and situations by taking them lightly. Dickens' fervent optimism was firmly rooted on his religious convictions, which were strongly Christian, but not sectarian. He stated them in a letter to his son soon to sail for Australia: Never take a mean advantage of anyone in any transaction, and never be hard upon people who are in your power. Try to do to others as you would have them do to you, and do not be discouraged if they fail sometimes. It is much better for you that the should fail in obeying the greatest rule laid down by our Savior, than that you should. Page 698.. « The more we are in earnest as to feeling the Christian religion, the less we are disposed to hold forth about it. Never abandon the wholesome practice of saying your own private prayers, night and morning. I have never abandoned it myself, and I know the comfort of it. Dickens' Influence Undoubtedly Dickens enjoyed by far the largest reading audience of any Englishman during the nineteenth century, since his books appeared in monthly installments over a period of decades, while his newspapers, largely a statement of his own views, were circulated widely each week for twenty years. So powerful was Dickens' influence that literature could not contain him; he assumed the stature of a moral force in all the major reforms of the age. Because of his intimate knowledge of the horrible living conditions among the middle and lower class people—his people—he was more aware of the suffering, of England en masse than all of his contemporary writers combined. While he sang the praises of the great emotional sweetness to be found beneath each roof, he also presented the appalling lot of fellow humans with such vigor that, often, as a result of his writings, reforms were successfully effected in housing, prisons, insane asylums, working conditions, and education. Andre Maurois maintains that Dickens'
LESSON DEPARTMENT vigorous campaigning for human rights prevented a bloody revolution in England. Whether this be true or not, it is true that often in his night-long wanderings about the streets of London, Dickens fed the poor and the deserted, and he was actively engaged in sponsoring new housing projects, and in various philanthropic endeavors. He did not believe that existing institutions need be changed, if only all men would be true to the native kindness each possessed within himself. Dickens in America Throughout his life, Dickens was easily excited to almost violent intensities, and never believed in doing anything by halves. When, therefore, he saw his publishers rapidly becoming wealthy from the phenomenal sale of his works, while he was hardly making an honest living, he raged at his publishers, but even more violently he attacked pirate publishers who copied his works as fast as they appeared without ever paying him a cent. While in England his novels sold for $2.50, in America they sold for twelve cents. In America, everybody waited on tiptoe for the next installment of his works, yet he: profited nothing from their sale. In 1842
Dickens sailed for the United States, hoping to make some change in existing copyright laws.
Though he was so busy being entertained by the great and the elite that he accomplished little, Dickens did satisfy his curiosity about this so-called new Eden about which he had heard so much.
What he found was not pleasant to his eye, or to his nose. He found American table man- 699 ners almost as revolting as the common-place spitting, a practice found even among the so-called "best" people.
Slavery was abhorrent to him, while the new West, in its...
Forlorn and miserable appearance, baffles all description. I have not seen six cabins out of six hundred where the windows have been whole. Old hats, clothes, boards, fragments of blanket and paper are stuffed into the broken glass; and their air is misery and desolation. It pains the eye to see the stumps of great trees thickly strewed in every field of wheat; and never to lose the eternal swamp and dull morass, with hundreds of rotten trunks steeped in its unwholesome water.... It is quite oppressive, too, to come upon great tracts, where settlers have been burning down the trees, and where their wounded bodies lie about like those of murdered creatures.
Americans bored him with their bragging, their violations of his privacy outraged him, and he returned to England convinced that "nowhere on the face of the earth is there less freedom of opinion on any controversial subject than in America."
After the Americans had given him lavish dinners in New York and Boston, they were incensed that he should so regard them, and Martin Chuzzlewit, the novel he wrote concerning his American tour, was not popular in the United States. Yet, when he returned in 1867 to give a series of readings from his novels, people slept all night in the streets to buy tickets, and, in New York, Dickens' agent sold tickets for thirteen hours without stopping, taking in more than $120,000.
Dickens loved the enthusiasm of this new audience, and repented of his rash first impressions of the United States.
Again he was 700 te 0 uae * ee A Perry Picture Copyright 1904 taken to America's bosom as few foreigners ever have been, and his second American tour was a great SUCCESS. Dickens, the Actor From his earliest youth Dickens was aware of his great powers over an audience.
Constantly throughout his lifetime he participated in home dramatics, and at his home he had erected a private stage, where he directed plays he had written, of course playing the role of hero himself. He gave a command performance before Queen Victoria, and frequently performed before select groups of his friends. But his real triumph came when he began giving public readings from his novels. In writing his novels he created his characters by living them himself. "I have just burst into Newgate Prison," he wrote while writing Barnaby Rudge, "and am going in ev  CHARLES DICKENS' LIBRARY the next number to tear the prisoners out by the hair of their heads." Likewise, he "became" the persons in his readings, practicing some passages as many as two hundred times before presenting them to a group of his male friends in his study for criticism.
During more than half the last decade of his life he was either preparing readings or on tour presenting them.
When on tour he declined all social engagements, living for the moment when he had the audience in his power. And how he delighted in transporting his audience with his considerable dramatic powers! He gave his readings not for money or for benefit of worthy causes, but because "there's nothing in the world equal to seeing the house rise at you, one sea of delighted faces, one hurrah of applause!"
During the last years of his life he began reading the murder scene LESSON DEPARTMENT from Oliver Twist. Usually, at the end of one of his performances, the audience would begin to cheer, and continue until after he had changed clothes and left the building, but after that terrifying imaginative experience, there was complete silence.
During the reading of the murder scene, Dickens' pulse rose from 72 to 112 and 124, and during his American tour and later, he was so exhausted after this reading, that for a quarter of an hour he could not utter an intelligible sentence.
Despite his endangered health, he fed upon his thrill of thrilling others, and he lectured almost until the day of his death in 1870. Dickens' Descriptions Thus, whether Dickens' weapon was tongue or pen, his great delight and his great achievement was the portrayal of characters. But he also created the scenes for his people with great effect. It was said that he could walk down a street, and years afterwards enumerate the articles as they were arranged in the store windows. He drew on this photographic memory some of the most memorable beginnings in any novels, notably those found in Great Expectations and Bleak House. Resist, if you can, for example, a brief excerpt from his description of a room: It was a blotched, stained, mouldering room, like a vault; and there were waterpipes running through it, which, at unexpected times in the night, when other things were quiet, clicked and gurgled suddenly, as if they were choking. At various times Dickens tried writing in Germany, Switzerland, and Italy; but each time he hurried to create 701 back to London, which he lovingly called "the great oven," for only after he had absorbed the atmosphere of lLondon's people and streets, did he write most effectively.
Only one who loved London dearly could write such a description: The streets of London, to be beheld in the very height of their glory, should be seen on a dark, dull, murky winter's night, when there is just enough damp gently stealing down to make the pavement greasy, without cleansing it of any of its impurities; and when the heavy, lazy mist, which hangs over every object, makes the gas-lamps look brighter, and the brilliantlylighted shops more splendid, from the contrast they present to the darkness round. Dickens' Characters Always in Dickens the story begins and proceeds with people; plot is the mere machinery which enables his characters to exist and move about. In David Copperfield, as in Dickens' writings as a whole, how it turns out in the end is unimportant; along the way we have met unforgettable people; they stay with us forever. The first thing we notice in Dickens is the unusual names of his characters.
Often their names characterize: Oliver Twist, a youth misshaped by society; Mr. Gradgrind, the impersonal slave-driving teacher; Murdstone and Grinby, grim murderous men, hard as stone; Pip, Little Nell, Dora, heroes and heroines; Mrs. Gummidge, grumbler; Wilson Micawber, ostentatious pretention. He also uses stage effects to characterize, as when Miss Murdstone arrives at the Blunderstone Rookery: her metal trappings define her essential self. 702
She brought with her two uncompromising hard black boxes, with her initials on the lids in hard brass nails. When she paid the coachman she took her money out of a hard steel purse, and she kept the purse in a very jail of a bag which hung upon her arm by a heavy chain, and shut up like a bite. Dickens also gives his characters identifying tags, which make them not only more easily identifiable, _ but more memorable to the reader. Old Mr. Peggotty says, "Tll be gormed," when he wants emphasis, and though nobody knows what the word means, it serves its purpose. The horrible pawnshop owner constantly said, "Oh, my lungs and liver, what do you want? Oh, goroo!"" (David Copperfield, page 194, Modern Library College Edition). Mrs. Micawber's refrain is, "I'll never desert Mr. Micawber," - while Mr. Micawber is always humming a tune or whistling (page 165 ff.), and Mr. Barkis' theme, carried out even to his death scene, is "Mr. Barkis is willing." The list could be extended almost indefinitely. As is true with actual people, talk. Is more memorable than action or description. How these characters do "talk themselves alive," sometimes in little more than a paraeraph! Read to your group, for example, the episode of the friendly waiter (chapter V, page 69 ff.), the ferocious bill collector, (chapter X], page 168), the brutal tinker and his woman (chapter XIII, page 196 ff.), and a host of others. Dickens' prodigal powers of invention, of investing each character with his own mannerisms, distinctive speech rhythms, diction, and philosophy, are a source of unending delight.  
David Copperfield The most autobiographical of all Dickens' novels, David Copperfield, is also his best loved, both by author and reader.
Years afterward Dickens 'wrote, "Like many fond parents, I have in my heart of hearts a favourite child—and 'his name is David Copperfield" (containing the initials of Charles Dickens in reverse order).
Particularly is the opening section of the novel memorable, since it is told from the innocent viewpoint of a child with such power and truth that it is completely irresistible. Plot Summary In main outline, the novel parallels Dickens' own life (see the preceding lesson). The boy David is reared by a weak, sensitive mother, who sends David for a few weeks to visit the Peggotty's, kin of his beloved Peggotty, the Copperfield's servant. He is very happy with old Mr. Peggotty, Ham, his nephew, and Little Emily, Ham's cousin, in their home, an inverted boat. When Davy returns home he finds there a stern new father, Mr. Murdstone, and his sister, who, through cruelty, alienate the son from them and cause David's mother's death.
Davy is sent to school under the tyrannical Creakle, but meets two fine chums, Steerforth and 'Traddles.
After his mother's death he is sent to London to earn his way.
There he lives with the indebted, but happy Micawbers.
Hating his humiliating job in the dank, dark warehouse, Davy tuns away to Dover to his Aunt Betsey Trotwood, who in kindness takes him in. He is sent to schooi, LESSON DEPARTMENT living at the home of Betsey's lawyer, Mr. Wickfield, whose daughter Agnes is Davy's own age. He studies law under Mr.
Spenlow and marries his daughter, Dora, who cannot keep house or accounts, yet they are serene and happy until her death two years later. By this time he is a successful author.
Steerforth meanwhile has met Little Emily, who is betrothed to Ham Peggotty.
Steerforth induces her to run away with him, then abandons her. He returns to her home on a boat, and during a storm Ham sacrifices his own life trying to rescue Steerforth and the others aboard the stranded vessel.
David marries Agnes Wickfield and with Micawber, saves her father from the evil clutches of Uriah Heep, his hypocritical clerk. At the end, the Peggotty family are shipped off to Australia, accompanied by Micawber and his wife, where all find success and happiness.
Theme of David Copperfield The book begins in sheer delight. It was Dickens' first attempt to write in the first person and, once sensing the power of this new mode » of approach, Dickens was carried away by his new creation, as is the reader who, following the emerging David through the first third of the book, is transported at Dickens' magic ability to create a book so filled with life that its characters stand erect from the page—indeed the page itself is hardly there, so intently does the reader live in the imagined world it describes. David Copperfield is probably Dickens' gentlest book. Truly Dickens looked into his own heart and 703 past as this tale unfolded. The basic tone is one of affection, domestic happiness, and unselfishness. If the novel has a theme, it is stated in Aunt Betsey Trotwood's parting advice to young David (she has renamed him Trotwood Copperfield) as he left for school in London: "Never be mean in anything; never be false; never be cruel.
Avoid those three vices, Trot, and I can always be hopeful of you."
Within the novel itself, how often these virtues triumph over cruelty, designed evil, and vice. How kind are Peggotty and her family to Davy; how kind is Aunt Betsey to take in David, an unknown orphan boy; how thoughtful is Mr.
Dick to young David, and in turn how kind is Miss Betsey in saving "simple" Mr.
Dick from an insane asylum. How self-sacrificing is Mr.
Peggotty in his long search to find Little Emily and save her; how kind he is to save Martha from her life of shame. And how kind of weak, childish Dora, not to be unkind to her husband as he seeks to "form her" to what she should be, until, finally, he realizes the high wisdom of 'loving her for her good qualities, rather than rebuking her for her inconsistencies.
Teaching of Friendliness Dickens, like the happy people in this novel, felt such a great need for friends that he could overlook the numerous faults in his friends rather than criticize them and thus destroy their mutual happiness. "Friendship is better than criticism," Dickens said, "and I shall steadily hold my tongue."