[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Poem | Title: The Salt Lake Temple]
cJhe  Salt  JLake  cJemple 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
Forty  years,  they  say,  it  took 
To  quarry  out  the  stone, 
Forty  years  of  toil  and  sweat 
And  aching  bone. 
Even  more  than  toil,  it  took 
Tenacity  as  hard 
As  the  gray  stones  touching  sky. 
Reaching  heavenward; 
And  love  it  took  and  vision 
And  soul  dedication, 
And  a  lifting  pride  that  bore 
The  mind's  elation. 
The  road  ahead  was  dusty. 
Unshaded  to  the  sun. 
Yet  their  faith  was  granite  cool, 
And  the  toilers,  one. 
Forty  years!  I  lift  my  head 
In  reverence  to  see 
The  spires  that  mark  their  courage 
For  all  eternity. 
The  Cover:  Mount  Moran,  in  the  Teton  Range,  Wyoming 
Photograph  by  Don  Knight 
Frontispiece:  The  Salt  Lake  Temple,  Photograph  by  Willard  Luce 
Cover  Design  by  Evan  Jensen

CJrom   I  Lear  and  QJc 
At  the  annual  Round-up  of  the  League 
of  Utah  Writers,  held  in  Logan  in  July, 
many  contributors  to  T\iQ  Relief  Society 
Magazine  received  special  awards.  Alice 
Morrey  Bailey's  poem  "New  Snow" 
(frontispiece  in  the  Magazine  for  Janu- 
ary 1953)  and  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard's 
"No  Barren  Bough"  (first  prize  poem  in 
the  Eliza  R.  Snow  Contest,  published  in 
the  January  1953  Magazine)  received 
high  awards  in  the  published  poetry  di- 
vision. Other  contributors  receiving 
awards  were:  Christie  Lund  Coles,  Olive 
Woolley  Burt,  Mabel  Harmer,  Pansye  H. 
Powell,  Lael  W.  Hill,  Mary  Ek  Knowles, 
and  Thelma  Lund. 
— Mrs.  Carl  J.  Christensen 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  cannot  refrain  from  writing  to  ex- 
press my  appreciation  for  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine.  It  is  always  a  joy  to  me, 
and  I  read  each  issue  from  cover  to  cover 
and  re-read  much  of  it.  The  July  issue 
brings  a  special  delight,  for  the  cover  pic- 
ture, enritled  "Los  Angeles,  California 
Skyline,"  is  a  photograph  of  beautiful 
West-Lake  Park,  with  the  Elks'  Club 
building  and  Asbury  Apartments  in  the 
background.  It  is  very  near  the  vicinity 
where  we  live,  and  I  often  walk  through 
the  park  and  enjoy  its  restful  beauty  and 
the  clear,  placid  lake,  with  the  ducks 
swimming  across  its  serene  surface,  as  the 
cover  picture  so  cleariy  shows.  This  beau- 
tiful picture  brought  renewed  enjoyment 
and  appreciation  of  our  nearby  surround- 
ings. The  excellent  editorial  "Work — 
Not  Drudgery"  (by  Counselor  Velma  N. 
Simonsen)  is  inspirational  and  encourag- 
ing. Work  meerings  are  opportunities 
for  happiness.  "First  Ladies  of  Our  Land," 
by  Elsie  C.  Carroll  is  a  very  fascinating 
and  worthwhile  arricle.  Those  women  who 
held  that  honored  station  in  davs  gone  by 
are  made  to  live  again  and  help  us  to 
realize  the  worthiness  and  high  repute  of 
the  men  and  women  who  have  been  the 
leaders  of  our  great  country.  These  ex- 
cellent brief  biographies  have  stimulated 
my  interest  in  American  history.  Please 
continue  this  interesting  scries. 
— Mrs.  John  A.  Gardner 
Los  Angeles,  California 
ar 
Alice  Morrey  Bailey's  poem  "The  Pep- 
per Tree"  (May  1953)  has  a  delicately 
lilting  structure,  coupled  with  a  homey 
theme  to  make  a  particularly  pleasing 
poem.  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard's  "Be- 
yond the  Strength  of  Rock"  (June  1953) 
presents  a  beautiful  thought  handled  with 
flawless  craftsmanship. 
— Iris  Schow 
Brigham  City,  Utah 
The  following  exchange  of  letters  re- 
garding the  editorial  "Dwight  D.  Eisen- 
hower Inaugurated  President  of  the  United 
States"  (March  1953,  by  Vesta  P.  Craw- 
ford) will  be  of  interest  to  readers  of  the 
Magazine. 
Dear  Mrs.  Eisenhower:  I  am  sending 
you  the  March  1953  issue  of  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  which  is  a  monthly 
magazine  published  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints  Relief  Society,  and  in  which  there 
is  a  magnificent  editorial  entitled 
"Dwight  D.  Eisenhower  Inaugurated 
President  of  the  United  States."  I  thought 
your  illustrious  husband  would  appreciate 
reading  it. 
—Rachel  S.  Willes 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
The  White  House, 
Washington,  D.  C. 
Dear  Mrs.  Willes:  Mrs.  Eisenhower  has 
asked  me  to  thank  you  for  your  letter  and 
for  the  copy  of  the  March  1953  issue  of 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  She  ap- 
preciates your  thoughtfulness  in  calling 
her  attention  to  the  editorial  "Dwight 
D.  Eisenhower  Inaugurated  President  of 
the  United  States."  Mrs.  Eisenhower  is 
putting  the  article  in  her  scrapbook  and 
thinks  it  was  certainly  kind  of  you  to 
send  it  to  her.  This  brings  you  Mrs. 
Eisenhower's  best  wishes. 
— Mary  Jane  McCaffree, 
Secretary  to  Mrs.  Eisenhower 
Permit  me  at  this  time  to  express  my 
appreciation  for  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine. We  have  only  four  members  of  the 
Relief  Society  here,  and  we  enjoy  the  con- 
tact with  the  organizarion  as  a  whole 
which  is  afforded  through  the  Magazine. 
— Ora  Nell  C.  Folkman 
Fayetteville,  Arkansas 
Page  644