[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Women at Conference]
Sixty    ijears  ^go 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponent,  October  i,  and  October  15,  1893 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  SALT  LAKE  CITY:  .  .  .  Sister  Mary  B. 
Eyring  from  Juarez,  Mexico,  was  thankful  to  be  here  and  to  mingle  her  voice  with  the 
congregation,  glad  to  see  so  many  engaged  in  the  good  work,  thought  the  Relief  Society 
branches  in  Mexico  would  compare  favorably  with  those  in  Utah;  they  had  not  many 
calls  for  help,  very  few  were  without  means  to  help  themselves  ....  There  were  only 
a  few  Mexicans  in  the  Church  ....  The  sisters  had  made  a  few  quilts  .  .  .  Sister  Julia 
Lindsey,  Bear  Lake  Stake,  reported  all  the  branches  in  good  condition  spiritually,  and 
faithful  in  temporal  labors;  it  was  a  hard  country,  very  cold  in  winter;  and  in  the  set- 
tlements extended  so  far  it  was  not  possible  to  accomplish  much  in  winter. 
— Selected  from  Conference  Report 
THE  CHILDREN:  We  can  never  give  children  too  many  legitimate  pleasures. 
Childhood  should  be  made  as  sunny  and  happy  as  unlimited  love  and  tenderness  .  .  . 
can  make  it.  The  shadows  fall  soon  enough  in  the  most  fortunate  lives.  Yet  we 
cannot,  with  all  our  endeavors,  make  the  hard  paths  easy  for  the  little  feet  we  long 
to  save.  The  children  must  learn  to  fight  their  besetting  sins,  each  for  himself,  if  they 
are  to  be  strong  men  and  women  in  the  days  to  come. 
— Selected 
MY  FORTIETH  YEAR 
My  fortieth  year  I  hail  thee  with  pleasure. 
What  gladness  or  sorrow  thou  boldest  for  me 
I  know  not,  no  matter,  I  know  thou  hast  treasure 
More  precious  than  pearls  from  the  depths  of  the  sea. 
— R.  M.   Fox 
PERFECTION:  Can  we  arrive  at  perfection  in  this  life,  is  the  question.  Well 
our  Savior  said,  "Be  ye  perfect  as  your  Father  in  Heaven  is  perfect."  ....  The  ques- 
tion arises,  would  he  ask  you  or  me  to  do  that  which  we  could  not  do  .  .  .  Believing 
this  life  is  a  school,  it  is  well  to  give  strict  heed  to  our  lessons  that  we  may  profit  by 
them.  The  holy  Bible  being  our  guide,  not  only  so,  but  The  Book  of  Mormon,  also 
The  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  Epistle  of  St.  Peter  beautifully  illustrates  this  les- 
son, as  we  read  in  the  twentieth  chapter  of  the  first  epistle:  "Wherefore  lay  aside  all 
mahce  and  guile,  and  evil  speaking  .  .  .  ."  Now  I  would  ask  you,  do  not  we  feel  great- 
ly blessed  when  we  realize  that  we  are  growing  in  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  in  Jesus 
Christ,  and  can  see  the  designs  and  purposes  of  God  our  Father  concerning  the  hu- 
man family,  to  fit  and  qualify  them  to  come  again  into  His  presence,  where  we  must 
give  an  account  of  how  we  have  spent  our  talents  and  our  time. 
— Zion's  Convert 
SILK  EXHIBIT:  Our  readers  will  be  dchghted  to  know  that  Utah  has  taken 
three  medals  for  her  silk  exhibit  (at  the  World's  Fair),  and  it  is  ardently  hoped  by 
the  patrons  of  home  industries  here  that  this  success  will  give  an  impetus  to  sericulture. 
— Editorial  Note 
Pag*  668