[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]
nd refinements of scholarship.
Meeting in Philadelphia from May to September 17, 1787, the bulk of the work was done by about 35 members who attended regularly.
Contrary to some popular traditions, What 647 there is no record that prayers were ever said in the convention, despite the 81-year old Franklin's plea that the "Father of lights" be appealed to in formal prayer during the June 1787 crisis when the meeting nearly dissolved. ODAY, despite the passage of time and the transition of the United States from a nonentity to the most powerful nation on earth bearing world-wide obligations, 73 of the original 84 clauses that Mortis' pen distilled for the final signing, remain intact; and despite 22 amendments. Moreover, the "living" Constitution appears to be stronger, and healthier, as Americans and their neighbors have come to appreciate its greatness and its advantages. It has been much prayed about since 1787! _ Church members are familiar with the veneration heaped on the instrument by our religious leaders.
Literature of the Church is filled with such utterances." Let us turn then to an outside, non-American source, for a critical evaluation.
Read what James Bryce — Lord Bryce — famous Oxford professor, British scholar, political scientist and diplomat, wrote in his twovolume work, The American Commonwealth: The Constitution...
Deserves the veneration with which the Americans have been accustomed to regard it.
After all deductions, it ranks above every other written constitution for the intrinsic excellence of its scheme, its adaptation to the circumstances of the people, the simplicity, *See Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman; chapters in The Discourses of Brigham Young; Gospel Doctrine; The Gospel Kingdom; The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff; Gospel Ideals. 

 —OCTOBER 1953 brevity, and precision of its language, its judicious mixture of definiteness in principle with elasticity in details.
These words ring as true today as in 1886 when Bryce published them—even more so.
Despite any record of prayer in the convention, it is evident to all believers that the framers' intelligence, their aspirations and choice, labored through the hot and humid Philadelphia summer of 1787, by means of effective debate and discussion, to the point that the "American Prophet," Joseph Smith and his friends in Liberty Jail, March 25, 1839, could write:... The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. If great and good men can earnestly work together in a great cause; and, after much labor, sifting, selection, and discussion, arrive at proximity to the wisdom of the universe, it should be a fact, not only of inspiration, but of great encouragement in all human endeavor. It is not enough merely to claim divine inspiration for the founders of the Republic. It is for us to know why "the laws and constitution"... Were "suffered to be established." (D. & C. 101:77), and then sustain those principles intelligently. Why should we?
What are the reasons? A little scholarship with the book of Doctrine and Covenants supplies the answers as to why the Constitution reflects inspiration. It was established: 1. For the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; 2.
That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him. 3. "Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another (D. & C. 101:77-79).
