[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Editorial | Title: Their Temples Sanctuaries]
669 CO EDITORIAL cm—© 

VOL.
40 OCTOBER 1953 NO. 10 heir Semples and heir Sanctuaries. > Come ye, with all your gold, and your silver, and your precious stones... And bring the box-tree, and the fir-tree, and the pine-tree, together with all the precious trees of the earth; and with iron, and with copper, and with brass, and with zinc and build a house to my name, for the Most High to dwell therein (D. & C. 124:25-26). N more than a century of temple building, ten sacred houses have been erected, through revelation and by commandment of the Lord. One of these is no longer in use, and one has been destroyed.
Eight beautiful temples remain to adorn the habitations of the saints and provide a place for the performance of the sacred ordinances for the living and for the dead. A temple is now being erected near the shores of the Pacific Ocean, in Los Angeles, California, and, in August 1953, President David O. McKay dedicated two new sites for temples, one near Berne, Switzerland, and one near London, England. The first temple to be dedicated (in 1877 by Elder Daniel H. Wells, Counselor to President Brigham Young) in the valleys of the mountains, was the towered edifice in the valley of the Virgin River, at St. George, Utah, protected and surrounded by the red cliffs of a desert land. In 1884, the Logan temple was dedicated by President John Taylor.
Facing the eastern mountains in lofty simplicity, above the tich grain lands and meadows of Cache Valley, it symbolized the struggles of a people toward their ideals of salvation and eternal glory, "even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of Page 6/70 learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God." The Manti temple (1888), set on a high and rounded hill, against a lofty plateau overlooking the farmlands of Sanpete Valley, was dedicated by Apostle Lorenzo Snow, with rejoicing, and with a prayer of gratitude for "refreshing showers, the hills to yield their treasures of snow, and springs of living water to come forth from the dry and parched ground." President Wilford Woodruff dedicated the Salt Lake Temple, April 6, 1893, with a prayer of humble supplication: "... We regard with intense and indescribable feelings the completion of this sacred house.
Deign to accept this the fourth temple which Thy covenant children have been assisted by Thee in erecting in these mountains. In past ages Thou didst inspire... The prophets, to speak of the time in the latter days when the mountain of the Lord's house should be established in the tops of the mountains, and exalted above the hills." In 1919, the first temple to be erected outside the boundaries of the United States was dedicated at Laie on the island of Oahu, Hawaii —in the beautiful palm lands of the Pacific. President Grant, in offering the prayer of dedication, asked a blessing upon "the natives of EDITORIAL this land, that all the great and glorious promises made concerning the descendants of Lehi might be fulfilled in them." The temple at Cardston, Alberta, (dedicated in 1923 by President Heber J. Grant), stands in chaste simplicity upon the plain against a western backdrop of the snow-clad summits of the Canadian Rockies.
