[Vol40 | October 1953 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: October]
648 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1953 
brevity,  and  precision  of  its  language,  its 
judicious  mixture  of  definiteness  in  prin- 
ciple with  elasticity  in  details. 
These  words  ring  as  true  today  as 
in  1886  when  Bryce  published 
them— even  more  so. 
Despite  any  record  of  prayer  in 
the  convention,  it  is  evident  to  all 
believers  that  the  framers'  intelH- 
gence,  their  aspirations  and  choice, 
labored  through  the  hot  and  humid 
Philadelphia  summer  of  1787,  by 
means  of  effective  debate  and  dis- 
cussion, to  the  point  that  the 
''American  Prophet,''  Joseph  Smith 
and  his  friends  in  Liberty  Jail, 
March  25,  1839,  could  write: 
.  .  .  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  is  a  glorious  standard;  it  is  founded 
in  the  wisdom  of  God. 
If  great  and  good  men  can  earn- 
estly work  together  in  a  great  cause; 
and,  after  much  labor,  sifting,  se- 
lection, and  discussion,  arrive  at 
proximity  to  the  wisdom  of  the  uni- 
verse, it  should  be  a  fact,  not  only 
of  inspiration,  but  of  great  encour- 
agement in  all  human  endeavor. 
It  is  not  enough  merely  to  claim 
divine  inspiration  for  the  founders 
of  the  Republic.  It  is  for  us  to 
know  why  "the  laws  and  constitu- 
tion" .  .  .  were  ''suffered  to  be  estab- 
lished. .  .  ."  (D.  &  C.  101:77),  ^nd 
then  sustain  those  principles  intelli- 
gently. Why  should  we?  What  are 
the  reasons?  A  little  scholarship 
with  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  supplies  the  answers  as 
to  why  the  Constitution  reflects  in- 
spiration. It  was  established: 
1.  For  the  rights  and  protection  of  all 
flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles; 
2.  That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine 
and  principle  pertaining  to  futurity,  ac- 
cording to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have 
given  unto  him  .... 
3.  "Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any 
man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to  anoth- 
er (D.  &  C.  101:77-79). 
Then  concludes  the  passage: 
"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  estab- 
lished the  Constitution  of  this  land, 
by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I 
raised  up  unto  this  very  pur- 
pose .  .  .  ."  (D.  &  C.  101:80,  De- 
cember 16,  1833). 
Why  did  those  who  "built  the 
building"  of  the  Constitution  labor 
"not  in  vain"?  As  section  101  clear- 
ly states,  so  that  the  cause  of  human 
freedom,  the  free  agency  of  man  on 
this  planet,  might  be  vouchsafed. 
Section  98,  which  preceded  on 
August  6,  1833,  contains  the  same 
premise  for  judging  laws  and  po- 
litical systems  anywhere: 
And  that  law  of  the  land  which  is 
constitutional,  supporting  that  principle  oi 
heedom  in  maintaining  rights  and  privi- 
leges, belongs  to  all  manbnd,  and  is  justi- 
fiable before  me  (D.  &  C.  98:5). 
As  President  John  Taylor  once 
wrote,  "The  worst  wish  we  have  for 
the  human  family  is  that  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Constitution  may  re- 
verberate from  shore  to  shore,  until 
all  mankind  are  free."  Its  basic 
principles  and  their  application  in 
public  policy  require  intelligent,  in- 
formed support  from  all  of  us— 
and  especially  from  those  who  be- 
lieve in  the  doctrine  that  "it  is 
founded  in  the  wisdom  of  God." 
To  establish  justice,  provide  for  the 
common  defense,  promote  domestic 
tranquility,  and  preserve  the  bless- 
ings of  liberty  "to  ourselves  and  our 
posterity"  involve  arduous,  intelli- 
gent labor.  Each  citizen,  therefore, 
has  to  continue  and  carry  on  the 
work  of  the  framers.  This  is  our  job, 
our  political  calling,  and  our  obliga- 
tion.   No  one  may  shirk  the  task.