[Deep in This Night by Katherine F. Larsen]

Deep in this night I hear the earth's song, Quiet and sure as tomorrow's returning; Pulsing and subtle and steady and long, Rising a curve of crescendo to morning. It is release to sink earthward, to lie Passive and silent, on soft grass reclining; Ears to earth's rhythm and eyes to the sky, Almost I reach to the core of life's meaning.
Here in dark stillness, my ear to earth's heart, Hurt has been banished, and sorrow and sinning; Age-old rhythm has set me apart— Quickened, renewed in me sense of beginning.
Deep in this night I hear the earth's song, Quiet and sure as tomorrow's returning; Pulsing and subtle and steady and long, Rising a curve of crescendo to morning. Yam and Gelly Making—An Art Ethel C. Smith Former Member, General Board of Relief Society 'ah making of beautiful things" is one definition of art. Is not a glass of clear, sparkling jelly or a jar of rich, colorful preserves a thing of beauty? And could we not well consider as a "culinary artist" the homemaker who is able to capture within a container the full flavor and beauty with which Mother Nature has so generously endowed our fruits and berries? To become adept in this art, as in any other, one must practice and experiment. The imagination may be freely exercised in combining fruits for unusual flavors in these luscious delicacies; yet there are some rules which must be followed if the finished product is to be a success. JELLY A good jelly is clear, quivers when removed from the glass, and holds its shape. It is tender, yet firm enough so that it does not run together when cut. To jell properly, juice must contain acid and the right amount of pectin. The amount and quality of pectin in fruits vary at different stages of ripeness.
Some fruits that contain sufficient pectin to jell are apples, crab apples, grapes (under-ripe), blackberries, currants, gooseberries, cranberries, huckleberries, plums, and quinces. Courtesy, General Foods 'STRAWBERRY JELLY IS DELICIOUS  JAM AND JELLY MAKING— AN ART 529
It is best to make jelly in small quantities — not more than four or six cups of juice at a time. If more juice is used it must be boiled longer, thus causing loss of flavor.
Long cooking also has a tendency to darken the color of the jelly and to make it tough.
General Directions for Jelly making:
Wash and drain fruit. For soft fruit and berries, add only enough water to start them cooking — about one-fourth cup to one quart of fruit. (Berries should be washed before hulling to preserve juice and flavor.) Cook ten to twenty minutes, stirring frequently. Mash fruit while it is cooking.
Cut large fruits, such as plums and apples, in pieces without paring, pitting, or coring. Barely cover with water and cook until fruit is soft.
Put hot fruit into a cloth jelly bag and hang over a pan to drip. The jelly will be clearer if the bag is not squeezed. If you do wish to press the bag to get out the last drop of juice, it should be done gently and the juice strained a second time through a fresh bag or cloth.
Measure the juice; heat to boiling point, and add measured sugar. Cook rapidly.
The jelly stage is reached when the juice runs together and falls off the side of a spoon in a sheet instead of dripping off or running in a stream. When this point is reached, remove from heat at once. Skim and pour into hot, sterilized glasses. Fill to within one-fourth inch from top. When jelly becomes firm, pour on a thin coating of hot paraffin. When this has cooled, follow with a second coating and roll the glass so paraffin comes well up on the sides.
Using these general directions, delicious jellies can be made with the following juices:
Crao i/lpple ana [finuoaro (felly
Equal parts of juice from both fruits, and three-fourths as much sugar as juice.
[Red (warrant ana [Raspberry (felly
A combination of two-thirds red currant and one-third raspberry juice, with threefourths as much sugar as juice.
(concord Q^rape (felly
Jelly made from Concord grapes is a favorite at our house. Use three-fourths as much sugar as juice, and use grapes that are slightly under-ripe. (Fully ripe grapes may be used with added pectin.) Crystals frequently form in grape jelly. To prevent this, allow the extracted juice to stand overnight. Then carefully pour juice off the sediment that has formed in the bottom of the pan.
Using Commercial Pectin in Jellymaking:
Fruits which do not have sufficient pectin can be used for jelly by adding the juice of another fruit containing a large amount of pectin, or by using a commercial pectin in liquid or powdered form. Many homemakers rely on this latter method as it takes the "guess work" out of jellymaking. The addition of a commercial pectin makes it possible to use fruit at the peak of its ripeness and flavor. It also increases the yield of jelly because of the shorter cooking period required and because more sugar can be used. In using a commercial pectin, the manufacturer's instructions should be followed exactly because the proportion of juice to sugar and the cooking method differ.
Some fruits containing very little pectin (practically none when fully ripe) are peaches, pears, cherries, strawberries, rhubarb.

530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— AUGUST 1951
Strawberry (felly
Strawberry jelly is delicious, but this juice must have added pectin to make it jell.
Follow the recipe given by the manufacturer of the pectin you buy. A refreshing and unusual flavor may be obtained by adding mint leaves and stems to the strawberry juice — about one-half cup of crushed mint to three cups of juice. The mint is removed by straining the jelly into the glasses when it is done.
Jams Jams are made of crushed or ground fruits mixed with sugar and cooked until thick. Jam can be made either with or without the use of a commercial pectin, depending on the consistency desired.
To make jams without adding pectin, the proportions are generally three-fourths as much sugar as fruit. If the fruit is extra tart, or if a rich, heavy jam is desired, the same amount of sugar as fruit is used. Jam is bottled and sealed while hot.
\Boysenoerry-^/lpricot (Jam
3 cups Boysenberries (measuring cups) 4^ cups sugar
3 cups apricots
Grind fruit before measuring. Mix fruits and sugar. Cook until thickened — about 20 minutes — stirring frequently. Note: You may prefer to press the Boysenberries through a sieve to remove the seeds before measuring.
[Plum (Jam
Wash and pit plums. Put through food grinder, using coarse blades. For 4 cups fruit use 3 Vi cups sugar. Let stand 1 hour. Cook until thick, stirring frequently.
Bottle and seal while hot.
Preserves
Preserves are made by combining fruits with sugar — generally the same amount of each — and cooking until the syrup is thick and the fruit slightly transparent. The fruit is not crushed as in jam. Preserves may be sealed hot, but allowing it to stand in the syrup overnight after cooking helps plump the fruit and prevents it from separating from t he syrup.
JCuscious Strawberry [Preserves
(Extra Rich)
4 cups ripe strawberries (measuring cups) Vi cup (scant) lemon juice
6 cups sugar
Put measured berries into large pan and place over moderate heat. Add a small amount of the sugar at a time, letting it melt and mix with the fruit, until all the sugar has been added. This method of mixing fruit and sugar prevents the berries from being crushed.
Boil 5 minutes; add lemon juice and boil 10 minutes longer. Remove from heat and cool. Gently stir or shake occasionally while cooling. Let stand overnight. Bottle cold and seal with hot paraffin.
Note: This is extra good made with everbearing strawberries.

JAM AND JELLY MAKING— AN ART
531
[Raspberry [Preserves
3 measuring cups ripe berries; 3 measuring cups sugar
Place berries in colander or sieve and dip into pan of boiling water for one minute; then drain. Put berries and 1 cup of the sugar in a pan over moderate heat and let come to a boil. Add the second cup of sugar and boil gently for 5 minutes. Add the remaining cup of sugar and boil 5 minutes longer. Remove from heat and cool.
Gently stir or shake occasionally while cooling. Let stand over night. Bottle cold and seal with hot paraffin.
Marmalades ~~1
Marmalades are made of a combination of fruits, often including citrus fruits. The fruit is cut in small pieces which appear throughout the clear, jelly-like syrup when the product is finished.
Courtesy, General Foods
MARMALADE AND JELLY FOR BREAKFAST

532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— AUGUST 1951
^rLpricot or [Peach lllarmalaae
6 cups apricots (or peaches), peeled and cut in small pieces
6 cups sugar i small can crushed pineapple (drain off most of the juice) i orange, peeled and cut in small pieces
Cook the peel of Vi orange and Vi lemon in small amount of water until softened. Grind or cut into fine pieces. Mix all ingredients together and cook over moderate heat until of right consistency — 45 minutes to 1 hour. Bottle and seal at once.
[Pear lllarmalaae
16 cups pears, peeled, cored, and thinly sliced
1 no. 2 can sliced pineapple, cut in thin pieces
1 large or two small oranges, cut in thin pieces, without peeling.
Mix fruits together and measure. Add % as much sugar as fruit. Boil over moderate heat until of right consistency — 30 to 45 minutes. Watch closely and stir frequently during latter part of cooking period. About 10 minutes before removing from heat, add a half -pint of maraschino cherries, cut in pieces (do not use cherry juice) . Bottle and seal at once.
Conserves
Conserves are similar to jams in consistency. They are made with a mixture of fruits. Nuts and raisins are frequently added.
(gooseberry ana [finuoaro Conserve
1 Vz lbs. gooseberries; 1 lb. rhubarb; 2 lbs. sugar; % lb. nut meats
Remove both stem and tail from gooseberries when washing. Cut rhubarb in small pieces. Combine fruits and add sugar. Boil until thick, stirring frequently. Just before removing from heat, add chopped nuts. Bottle and seal at once.
<A.pricot Conserve
8 cups apricots (sweet pits are best); blanched apricot pits; 8 cups sugar; 1 no. 2 can pineapple (sliced or bits)
Peel, pit, and cut apricots in halves. Add sugar and pineapple juice. Let stand overnight. Cook slowly for 10 minutes, skim out apricots, and add blanched apricot pits to the juice. Boil down until thick and syrupy. Cut pineapple in small pieces and combine with apricots. Add to the syrup and boil for 10 minutes. Bottle and seal at once.
Never let anything go to waste. Be prudent, save everything, and what you get more than you can take care of yourselves, ask your neighbors to help you consume.
— Brigham Young

vyven Solace
Helen H. Jones
WHEN my generally cheerful husband came home from the college with discouragement written in drooping shoulders and a sober face I asked unnecessarily, "Is something wrong?" Something was. Due to the international situation enrollments had dropped, and his evening class had been discontinued. Result to us? Sixty dollars less take-home pay each month.
Something had to be done to help us over this disappointment. I made one of those out-size pies, with a picket fence of apple slices standing on end at the very edge to hold the top crust like a big-top over a bubbling well of fresh apples, raw sugar, and cinnamon. Then I cut a steaming piece and served it to my husband with a wedge of nippy cheese, even before dinner.
My eight-year-old daughter came home from school in tears. Chuckie, whom she had considered her property, had been seen chasing another little girl across the play yard. I quickly changed my plans for dinner. Instead of ordinary meat loaf, I rolled savory dressing in an inch-thick layer of ground beef, and when the stuffed meat was baked,
I decorated it, sides and top, with fluffy whipped potatoes and grated cheese.
Just yesterday the college called to tell the student, who lives in my home as mother's helper, that due to her numerous cuts and lack of interest in her school work (she's in love) the dean thought it advisable that she check out of school before the "F's" she was earning went on her permanent record. By way of encouragement, I made one of those fudge-mashed potato cakes, with three quarters of an inch of marshmallow on top, over melted bitter-sweet chocolate, and served it for lunch.

I am beginning to understand why I turn to my kitchen stove in times of trouble. It's not that I'm a natural cook like my mother and sisters.

There is a deeper reason for my visit to the neighbors when there's been a death in the family, and there is a definite purpose of helpfulness when I take a casserole dish to the side fence for Mrs. Peterson, on the west, who has unexpected house guests, or drop in with a cake when Sister Harmon comes home from the hospital. Those folks need the food.

I wonder if, when members of my family or my friends are downhearted, I turn to baking because I feel better doing something. Or it may be every woman's way of showing the disappointed or discouraged loved one that he has sympathy and understanding. After all a fragrant pie, savory meat roll, or festive cake, may be more articulate than words in saying, "Anyway, I still love you."