[Song by Gene Romolo]

song, Which wakes in our soul where remembrance stays, The joys which e'en time can never outlive And in hours of pleasure, or darkest days A nameless charm doth their influence give. —E. B. W. OLD MAIDS ORGANIZE: The young women of Woodhaven, N. Y.
Have organized an "Old Maids' Consolation Association." 'They aver that they have been neglected by the young men, and now propose to retaliate. Not to be outdone, several young men met and organized an "Old Bachelors' Sympathetic and Consolation Society.' Resolutions were adopted as follows: Resolved: That we, as representative young men of the community, deploring their hasty action in assigning themselves so prematurely to old maidenhood, earnestly request them to reconsider their action. At the same time we extend our heartfelt sympathy and penitently promise to atone for past neglect. Resolved, That we appoint a committee to attend the next meeting of the "Old Maids' Consolation Association," and do all in their power to affect a consolidation of the two societies under the title of the "Mutual Consolation Association." JUAB STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Apostle A. H.
Lund said: "T am pleased to have the privilege of meeting with the sisters, and to hear of the good work they are performing, comforting the sick, and caring for the needy, it is a great mission; it is better to be good than great; it is a mission of love to help those who are in need; look after the needy especially those who do not always ask; for there are those who can not make their wants known; give in a way that they will not feel like paupers, but sons and daughters of the same father, extend the same charity as you would to your own brothers and sisters.—Ellen Goldsbrough, Asst. Sec.  ARAH EMMITT TOUT (Mrs. Edwin F.) died in New York City, April 25, 1951, and was buried in the family's home town, Ogden, Utah. She was the wise, understanding, home-keeping mother of seven brilliant children, six daughters and one son—all singers—five of them professional.
Nannie sang before the crowned heads of Europe and filled grand opera and concert engagements in London, Brussels, and Paris. Margaret (Margaret Romaine) sang in the Metropolitan Opera House, where she had leading soprano roles for seven years. Hazel (Hazel Dawn) was the famous "Pink Lady" of musical comedy fame. At Hyde Park L. D. S.
Missionary street meetings, held in London, the family would open the services with their magnificent singing, walk ten blocks to another location and sing there, then move on to another group, then back to close the first meeting, and perhaps the other two. Mé4kY ELLEN CHASE, Professor of English Literature at Smith College, has written an excellent biography of Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, wife of John Davison Rockefeller, III. Mrs.
Rockefeller contributed generously of her faith, energy, and personality to our American democracy, in which she Ramona W. Cannon believed profoundly. Her marriage was the cornerstone of her life, and she was the intelligent and beloved mother of six children.
JULIA PHIPPEN ELDRIDGE
J EVANS, age 102, died June 8,
1951, in Boise, Idaho. She crossed the plains with the Mormon pioneers in 1852 and spent nearly fifty years of her life in Coalville, Utah.
She was skilled in many crafts, including bee raising, soapmaking, midwifery, and practical nursing.
M i \RY SUSANNAH HIGGS
(Mrs. Robert) Sleater, Utah's second-oldest woman, who maintained an active interest in life up to a month before her death, died May 2, at the age of 102 years. She walked across the plains and had a personal acquaintance with much of Utah's dramatic history, of which she retained vivid memories.
OHYLLIS McGINLEY (Mrs.
Charles Hayden), a graduate of the University of Utah and contributor to well-known magazines, is considered by many as "the leading writer of light verse in America/'
Stones from a Glass House and A Pocket Full of Wry are among her volumes of verse. She lives a quiet, domestic life in a New York suburb with her husband and two young daughters.
Page 525

EDITORIAL
VOL 38
AUGUST 1951
NO. 8
Cease to C/ind cfauit d^/ne vUith isLnother
T^HE spirit of a home has a lasting impression upon the development of a child's personality and character. While each child has inborn characteristics, the influence of the home is of profound importance in their development. It might be likened to the action of water enveloping a pebble. The pebble has its own entity; but the gradual yet continuous action of the water smoothes and polishes it. So love and understanding surrounding a child, modify, soften, and refine his undesirable traits. A less desirable home environment, on the other hand, lacking the action of an enveloping love, tends to sharpen and accentuate a child's undesirable characteristics.
One of the most stunting influences on soul growth is the evil of finding fault. Where parents surround a child with critical and derogatory remarks about others, it is natural for a child to follow their example; and it is extremely difficult for him to change his attitude as he attains maturity. The pattern of finding fault is embedded too deep within him.
In speaking to Relief Society the Prophet Joseph Smith admonished:
Don't be limited in your views with regard to your neighbor's virtue, but beware of self-righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues, and not think yourselves more righteous than
Page 526 others; you must enlarge your souls towards each other, if you would do like
Jesus, and carry your fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom (D.H.C. IV, 606).
Finding fault stifles the enlargement of the soul. Instead of a heart expanding with love, it tends to contract and cause self -righteousness.
Certain persons may always be expected, in their conversations, to involve one in a quagmire of fault finding, even sometimes concerning the General Authorities of the Church. There is an inclination to avoid such a person who seems to find his pleasure in lashing and whipping to shreds the good character of his neighbors. And yet if one follows the command, "cease to find fault one with another" (D. & C.
88:124), one would even seek to enlarge his soul toward the faultfinder, not to condone the evil but to seek to be a light to the feet of the faultfinder in love. Words learned as a child return with deeper and clearer significance as years bring a greater sensitivity to one's own shortcomings. Such are the words of that familiar and beloved refrain, "If you're the first a fault to see, be not the first to make it known." Many people recognize a fault, but blessed are the persons who do not call attention to it.
To many the evil of faultfinding is one most difficult to eradicate.
Although silent resolutions may re-

EDITORIAL
527 peatedly be broken, still ever before one is the command "cease to find fault one with another/' and the struggle goes on.
The earnest striver realizes that not only should he not search and find faults, but he should seek, in addition, to cloak the faults of his neighbor as he does his own, and constantly look for the good and desire to build up the character and the goodness of his neighbor. So will he enlarge his own soul and carry his fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom. The loving and humble servant of the Lord is so impressed with the magnitude of the work to which he has been called, in relation to his own shortcomings, that finding fault with others finds no lodgment in him. Thoughtful observation, moreover, has taught him that the very faults he finds in others may be his own, and that unfortunate situations of his neighbor which he publicizes may be visited upon him. The law "judge not that ye be not judged" is to him reality.
Parents have the responsibility to live the gospel as they wish their children to live it, to banish from their home environment the evil of findin g fault, and to put in its place the seeking of the good in others and the consequent enlarging of the soul. To all who are victors in this struggle there come, in the silent watches of the night, not re-echoed words of faultfinding to vex the soul, but instead a comforting closeness to the spirit of the Master. —M. C. S. > Deep in Shis Night Katherine F. Larsen 527
Among the Ferns
 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 533
Home Gene Romolo 535
New Horizons Margaret Smith Larson 541
Poppies in Summer
 Linnie F. Robinson 547
Sea Call
 Mary Gustafson 575
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1. Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. S