[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 553 _ Owens, Mt. Graham Stake Relief Society; President Thelma G. Maloy; Secretary-Treasurer Clare K. Claridge; Laura Blake, board members; Second Counselor Ellis Hoopes; Magazine agent Myrtle Tenney; Julia Claridge Ellsworth, board member. Seated across the table from Bishop Peterson is Sister Lucinda Merrell, Indian Relations member of the board, wearing light-colored dress. Corsages of beautiful flowers were given to the women as they entered the chapel. After the opening meeting luncheon was served, and a varied program was conducted, consisting of music, talks, a reading, and an interesting skit. Of the sixteen Relief Society organizations in Mt. Graham Stake, thirteen were represented, a number of women coming from as far away as E] Paso, Texas, a distance of 250 miles. A gift was presented to Sister Maude Johns, as recognition for fifty years of visiting teacher service. Photograph submitted by Leila G. Eldredge SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH) "TALENT REVIEW," April 11, 1951
Front row, seated, left to right: Julia Kesler, who read her original poem "Flowers"; May Neilson, who composed music and words to the song "I Waltz in Your Arms in a Dream"; Wandrella Eggett, who read her poem "What America Means to Me'; Fannie Hayes, who read her poem "Beatitudes"; Hazel Child, who read i ae "My People'; Rose Mangus, who wrote the words for the song ''Beautiful tah." Second row, seated, left to right: Marjorie Hughs, who wrote the words and the music for the song "Some Day I'll Have You'; Mary Alice Eakle, who assisted in the arrangement of the skit ""We Never, Never Gossip"; Marjorie P. Winegar, who wrote the words for the skit; Zelda D. Howard, who read her poem "The Power of Prayer"; Gladys Price, who read her poem "Too Busy"; Bernice Bywater, who wrote the skit "The Relief Society Red Hen."

Back row, standing, left to right: Second Counselor Mona H. Haacke; President Leila G. Eldredge; First Counselor Ireta A. Page; Dora Webb, who wrote the music for the song "Give and Receive"; Grace Hill who wrote the words for "Give and Receive."

Every number presented in this entertainment, except one, was entirely original. Fifty stake Singing Mothers participated, and every ward in the stake was represented by some number.