choristers and organists, theology class leaders, literary class leaders, social service class leaders and work committee, the departments to be conducted under the direction of stake leaders. A most successful class leaders' convention was held in Deseret stake last year.
Sustaining Visiting Teachers: The General Board recommends that Relief Society visiting teachers be sustained at Relief Society ward conferences. They may be sustained in a group, but it is preferable that their names be read.
Receiving New Members: The General Board recommends that all new Relief Society members be voted in at a regular Relief Society meeting, preferably at the work and business meeting; also that where Relief Society women remove from one ward to another, they be received also by formal vote.

Group Conventions: It has been observed that often at the group conventions the Relief Society does not have large enough rooms for their meetings. The General Board recommends that Relief Society stake presidents consult early with the Priesthood presidents and make the best arrangements possible for rooms for the group conventions. It is also recommended, that Relief Society stake officers make it a point to invite the local priesthood to the Relief Society sessions of the group conventions, and give them special seats on the stand or at the front of the room.
Tonight we are to have an entertainment in the Tabernacle, the Relief Society Review?a magnificent pageant to be given under the supervision of the Salt Lake county stakes. A rich treat is in store for you there. A beautiful souvenir booklet, provided by the women who have arranged this Review, will be given to each of you. We wish to thank the Salt Lake county stakes, which have loyally come to our support by preparing this excellent exhibit, in reproducing, for the special benefit of this conference, this inspiring Review.
Thursday morning, at 7:30, we shall have our presidents' breakfast. The stake and mission presidents are invited to be the guests of the