[Vol16 | March 1929 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Women Legislators Annie Wells Cannon]
Women Legislators By Annie Wells Cannon
The legislature of 1929 will differ in one respect from those of any other year in that nearly all the states have elected women members. Since the Suffrage Amendment in 1920 there has been noted marked progress among women in almost every line of activity. The women have taken their enfranchisement quite seriously, and among the different groups or associations have endeavored to make a study of political science in order to intelligently use the ballot. The result this year has been most gratifying, so much so, that according to figures compiled by the National League of Women Voters this last year, 1928, seven women have been elected to Congress instead of four, and 145 women now sit in legislatures in thirty-eight states.
Connecticut is the state that leads all others in women legislators, having one woman in the senate and nineteen in the House. There is no question but that women make good legislators. They approach their task earnestly and generally speaking quite unselfishly. It seems to be their desire to serve the state as a whole, and help to bring about those measures that will benefit the people most, without regard to county boundaries or personal interests. While women naturally incline towards measures pertaining to social and educational questions, they are equally alert on any measure, and not often given to hasty or biased judgment.
The records of Utah's women legislators show them to have given good and efficient service and many most beneficial laws in the statutes have been introduced and carried through to enactment by them. It is therefore a safe conclusion that in the 18th legislature of 1929 the women will maintain the good standard of their predecessors and give excellent service to the state.
There are six women in the House. The largest number yet elected in Utah. Heretofore with two exceptions, once Weber county and once Utah county sending a woman representative, the women have all been elected from Salt Lake county. This year, 1929, Box Elder and Carbon counties each sent one, a fact which might seem to several a broader vision on the part of the electorate.
There are a number of important measures coming before the present legislature in which the women are particularly interested, principally a school for the feeble-minded, and the women of the state are anxiously watching the outcome. That the women legislators may be assured of fine support from the outside the different clubs and organizations of women have formed a Woman's Legislative Committee, which meets regularly and by the appointment of committees, corresponding to the legislative committee, are watching the course of all measures and lending what aid is permitted by meeting with the different committees and expressing their views either for or against as the case may warrant.
The influence this committee might yield is easily recognized when one considers the personnel consists of three members each, from all the womens organizations and clubs in the state, therefore much is expected and we predict much will be achieved by Utah's women legislators of 1929, backed as they are by so strong and intelligent a group.
The six women now sitting among the law makers are Mrs. Lucinda P. Jensen of Box Elder county, Mrs. Grace A. Cooper of Carbon county, Mrs. Anna T. Piercey, Mrs. Emily M. Carlisle, Mrs. Martha Purser, Mrs. Frank Page Stewart all of Salt Lake county. These women not only represent the constituency which elected them, but the women of the state have a personal interest in all they do for after all women are just beginning to grasp the reins in government and are the cynosure of all eyes. Men's mistakes may go unnoticed but women's are often times heralded as a reflection on the inability of women to meet great issues.
In preparing a brief sketch of the lives of these six women legislators the writer is happy in the thought that they will measure up to all that is expected of them in their arduous and trying position.
