Into Whatsoever House By Fontella S. Calder OH, dear, I can't seem to make it go right!" sighed Pamela Brent, as she bent anxiously over her sewing. There were two worried lines in her brow, and the corners of her mouth drooped forlornly. If you had observed closely they might also have seen an occasional tear find its way down on the material she was trying to fashion into a coat, for her little four year old daughter. Donna was, at this very moment, tossing in a feverish sleep. Every time that hoarse cough came from the direction of the couch, it gave a tug at Pamela's heart. "I really must do something for the child," she said. "There isn't a thing in the house I could rub on her chest? and no money!" There was that word, money, again. How it had ocupied her mind these last few weeks. Besides the usual household expenses there was Celia, in her first year at high school?and Robert. Only that morning Robert had said, "Say, Moms, when do I get some new shoes? I met Miss Blake, my Sunday School teacher, last night. She wanted to know why I hadn't been to Sunday School lately. Gee, I didn't want to tell her it was because I didn't have any decent shoes." It did take a lot of shoes for an active, healthy boy of nine! There was also the problem of a new coat for herself. She had worn her present one three seasons. True, it had been a beautiful, expensive coat; and did not look badly worn. But three seasons were just the limit for any coat, no matter how it looked! Things in the Brent household had been at high tension for weeks. The little savings were exhausted; winter was approaching and John Brent was without work. It seemed a shame that the depression which was sweeping the world, should so mercilessly creep into happy homes; upsetting the peace and love abiding there, with thin excuses for complaints and unkind words. John Brent was a carpenter in a small town, and until the present time, had made a comfortable living for his little family. It was no wonder that Pamela's lovely face was clouded with discouragement, as one distressing thought after another, passed through her mind. "If only John hadn't said what he did this morning before he went away." With a sigh, she glanced around the disorderly room, at the three Jack-o-lanterns, whose grinning faces seemed to mock her. Only that morning little Donna in her play had carried them from the back porch, where they had been discarded by the children, after their halloween frolic the previous Saturday. Of course, she knew, in her heart, that John had not intended to be cruel. It was because he was so worried. But it had seemed so unkind to her and the children, when he had said: "The very idea, three perfectly good pumpkins wasted, and people in the world starving to death! Seems to me they might have been put to better use baked into pies, like my mother used to make!" and John knew she never 104 had achieved a right successful pumpkin pie. He knew, too, she was thrifty, and never let anything go to waste. With a sudden angry start, she laid aside her sewing and arose to remove the offending pumpkin faces. As she did so another rasping cough came from the child on the couch, giving her nerves another tightning tug. Approaching the door, laden with the Jack-o-lanterns, she was startled by a knock?Another collector I suppose," she complained as she deposited her burden on the kitchen table, and turned to the living room door. When the door was opened, however, she was not greeted by the expected collector, but by two pleasant-faced women. The elder of the two spoke in a kind, gentle voice: "How do you do, Sister Brent. We are the New Relief Society teachers on this block. We are very happy to find you here today. You were not at home last month when we called." Pamela extended her hand, first to Sister Benson, and then to Sister Miller. As she invited them to be seated there seemed to flash over her consciousness the reason for the increasing troubles of the past two months. She had missed the visiting teachers. Then Celia had felt she needed a new dress; had stayed from church. In fact, during the past two months there had never been a time, when they had all seemed suitably outfitted to go to church. So they had remained at home, inventing one flimsy excuse after another, until the spirit of God had ceased to dwell in their hearts. "We are sorry you have a sick child, Sister Brent. What are you doing for her cold?" This from Sister Benson, who was always solicitous RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at the least signs of approaching illness. Pamela was a bit confused as she confessed she had done nothing. "She seemed all right this morning. It is just since she lay down after luncheon that this cough started; and I didn't have a thing to doctor her with." "Mustard plasters are very good," said Sister Benson, who was somewhat of an authority, having raised a family of eight children in the days when drug store preparations were little used. "Well, I really never thought of that," Pamela admitted. "My children have always been healthy. They have seldom had even a cold, so I haven't had much experience with mustard plasters." "You are indeed fortunate to have your children so healthy, Sister Brent. If you have the mustard I would be glad to prepare a plaster for you." The necessary articles were quickly produced. While the plaster was being prepared by Sister Benson, Pamela was telling of her difficulties with the coat she was trying to make to the interested Sister Miller, who said: "I believe I can help you with that, because I just completed a made-over one, for my article to the Relief Society this year." Pamela smiled her appreciation as she said "I didn't use to be so dumb when we were taking domestic art together in high school. Little did I expect then that I would be reduced to the necessity of making coats for my children out of old ones. It's humiliating!" "It is very interesting," corrected Sister Miller; and seeing here an opening for that month's topic, she continued, "Pamela, what is the cause of the trouble in the world INTO WHATSOEVER HOUSE today? Isn't it because people have been striving for worldly goods and riches, and forgetting to keep the commandments of God? Jesus said, 'But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you'.' Then Sister Miller read some beautiful quotations from the Relief Society magazine. 'As they were discussed by the three women, a great peace came into the heart of Pamela Brent; entirely erasing the tired discouraged lines from her face, and turning up the corners of her mouth in a pleasant smile. "Oh, by the way," said Sister Benson, as the two women prepared to leave, '"seeing those Jack-o-lanterns out there in the kitchen reminded me that I have here"?and she reached in her purse?''a recipe for delicious pumpkin pie; if you would like to have it, Sister Brent. It was given me by my new neighbor who says it comes straight from her mother's kitchen in New England." One could hardly describe the happy light in Pamela's eyes, as she received the recipe and thought of the surprise in store for John. It was a changed woman, who closed the door behind her departing guests, after bidding them come again, and promising that she would try to attend Relief Society more regularly in the future. With peace in her soul, and a prayer on her lips that God would make her baby well soon, she turned to care for little Donna. After following the advice of Sister Benson, she sat by the little one's bedside until restful sleep and easy breathing told her that her little daughter would soon be well. Then she quietly hurried out to the kitchen where the Jack-o-lanterns still grinned at her from the 105 table. But this time she laughed back?''Why you old ugly pumpkin faces, I believe I can still make a pie out of you! And when Robert comes from school I'll have him kill a chicken." She laughed to herself at the surprise in store for her family as her nimble fingers prepared the pastry for the pies, and set it in the ice-box to chill. "I'm so anxious to get at that coat," Pamela continued, still talking to the pumpkins she was now slicing and trimming carefully. "It looks so cunning now that Sister Miller has basted it together just as it should go?and Robbie's shoes ?I really must look at those shoes; perhaps if they were polished and had some new laces they wouldn't be so bad. It isn't right for me to encourage the child to stay from Sunday School because his shoes are a little shabby. It is teaching him to place value on the wrong things in life." Pamela heard her husband whistling as he approached the house that evening. She listened in astonishment, because he hadn't done that for weeks. She soon learned the reason for his joviality, however. He caught her in his arms, as he entered the door, and waltzed her around the room, fairly shouting as he did so?Pam dear, I've the jolliest news?Doc. Wilson? bless his heart?well, you know, he took over the old Johnson property last spring; and now he has conceived the idea of doing some developing while prices are low. He is going to take those two old ramshackle houses and' make them over, into modern apartments?and that means work for your old man, and a new coat for his little wife!" Pamela's face was glowing as she said, "Why, John, that is splendid. I am so glad?but, I have decided 106 to wear my old coat another winter. Come dear, supper is waiting." No word could describe the rapture in John Brent's eyes as his lips closed over that pie. "May I have another piece, Pam dear? I can remember one time when my mother had baked some pies, just like this?,"' and Pamela's husband was off on one of his reminiscences. But Pamela had heard enough; as she gave all her attention to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE chicken broth she was feeding the smiling Donna, she was sure she had nothing more to wish for. In the meantime, Sister Benson and Sister Miller had finished visiting the block assigned to them. As they approached the sanctuary of their own homes they repeated the words that had been their guide that day: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house." The white silence of winter, broken by the murmuring of a winter stream? Wood river, in the Sawtooth national forest of Idaho. Note the bareness of the trees, stretching their naked limbs skyward toward the sun, as if seeking warmth of his rays. Acrostic?February thou art like unto my soul. Ever I am waiting for spring to unfold. Be steadfast and true, my soul, like the months, Remain in thy strength like the sod of the field, Unmoved by the passing events of the world, Aided by faith in thy infinite goal, Rest thee in peace and love and faith. Your time of joy is now?Be not afraid?Bertha W. Pratt, Notes to AN ISPIRATIONAL CALL At our April Conference, 1930, President Louise Y. Robison asked all Relief Society women of the Church to donate one article, either new or remodeled, for the benefit of the needy. The article could range in value from 10c to any amount one desired to give.Had all the wards and stakes responded to this call there would have been a big supply of needed things to meet the present distress. We reprint part of President Robison's instructions given in the April, 1931, conference, and hope that all our stakes will make this much needed collection. "Last spring we asked that all-of the Relief Society women of the Church donate one article, either a new article jr made-over or remodeled article, for the benefit of those in need. It seems in some stakes this has hardly been understood, and they have not known what to do with the articles when they were collected. You can have the articles range in price from ten cents to any amount, even to a pair of blankets, if anyone would care to give that much. "Look about you and see if all Definite instructions regarding this clothing contribution will be found in the Relief Society Handbook, page 176. The Field the children are taken care of, that no little child is going to school humiliated because of, its clothing. It is a cruel thing for a child to have to go to school or Sunday School and be ashamed because its clothing is worn. Take care of your ward out of this contribution, then if you have your ward supplied, (and we do have wards where these is very little or no need, but we still expect and hope that these sisters in such wards will contribute), and you still have a surplus, have the ward president speak to the stake president about this. In almost every stake there will be one ward where there is greater need than in other wards. "Other women's organizations do this type of work. Last year the Needlework Guild of 'America supplied 1,300,000 articles. To be a member of the Needlework Guild one must donate two articles a year, or an equivalent amount of money. These are given to the Red Cross or to any group that are in need. We are not trying to take care of the world, but sisters of the Relief Society, do you not think this Relief Society is strong enough to take care of every Latter-day Saint child there is in this Church? Don't you think it is our calling, as mothers of the Church, to see that there is not | a child in this whole 'Church suffering?" Notes from the Field SARAH BEATTIE BARNES, BLANCHE Davis REES, SARAH T. SOUTH AMELIA Wardrop, Mary J. G. Burton Grant Stake (Burton Ward). URTON WARD, Grant Stake, is located immediately south of McKinley Ward, having been made from a portion of the old Farmers' Ward, in 1914, Henry G. Burton, bishop. On May 5, 1931, the Relief Society of Burton Ward reached its seventeenth birthday. The first meeting was held at the home of the late Alfred J. Burton, and Amelia Wardrop was sustained as president with Ella Free Kimball and Mary J. Gardner Burton as counselors. Sister Wardrop was counselor in the old Farmers' Ward at the time of the reorganization. Prior to this she had been the president of the 12-13th Ward. She entered into the work as an experienced faithful leader, personally in touch with every phase of the work. The chapel was built during her presidency. When conditions made it necessary to divide the Burton Ward she found herself in the new Wells Ward, where she was made Relief Society president. This was the third time she had been chosen as the first president of a ward Relief Society. That in itself is a high tribute to her worth. It is interesting, too, that she lived in three wards at different times while occupying the same house. Born on June 27, 1855, she was 76 years of age, and sailed for Europe in August, 1931, as a guest of the NOTES FROM THE FIELD United States Government. Her son, Starr Clifton Wardrop, was drowned in the service of the Navy. Mary J. G. Burton was voted in as first counselor to Sister Wardrop October 22, 1916, upon the death of Sister Kimball, acting as such until September 14, 1918, when she was sustained as the president. Her cheerful spirit spread sunshine wherever she found it necessary to labor, and the good feeling of love and spirituality was commended by those who attended the gatherings of this organization. Sister Burton moved from the ward at the close of 1922, and Sarah T. South was chosen by Bishop Miller to fill the vacancy, being sustained president January 16, 1923. At this time the population of Burton Ward represented seventeen different nationalities, who worked together harmoniously supporting the bishopric, of which an outstanding achievement was the erecting of the amusement hall. Sarah Beattie Barnes was made president following the appointment of Sister South as Relief Society stake secretary. She was called to this position and sustained September 26, 1926. The work progressed under her kind and gentle supervision, and she made many lasting friends. In 1928, Sister Barnes moved from the ward, and Blanch Davis Rees was chosen as her successor, being sustained October 14, 1928. Sister Reese has filled a mission and held other positions of trust, and she is meeting the new phase of the great Relief Society work successfully. In the last call for Magazine subscriptions, Burton Ward won the stake prize. The membership and attendance is also steadily increasing. The star quilt is a favorite with this ward?the sisters have 109 made a great many which are to be found in different localities of the country. The five presidents shown in the picture are still living, three of them continue to reside in Burton Ward ?Sister Reese, president; Sister Barnes, who has returned and is now a counselor to Sister Reese; and Sister South, a stake member. North Sevier Stake. HE value of having a yearly plan for Work and Business Meeting has been demonstrated by many of our stakes, who make of this one of the most important days of Relief Society activity. The following fine constructive plan from the North Sevier stake indicates great care in the preparation of a yearly program: October 13: School lunches; school clothing; aprons for children and women; patterns for remodeling; crochet cushions and hooked rugs; planting of Fall bulbs and caring for them over Winter. November 10: Thanksgiving menus, recipes and demonstrations; games ?how to amuse most profitably, and what are the best play things for constructive growth; games in the home; stories in the home. December 8:, Christmas suggestions; recipes for candies; demonstration of candies; painting vases; pillows, hotpad holders; parties?games, menus, favors, decorations. January 12: Infant feeding and clothing?layette complete with patterns; fagoting, smocking, hairpin lace, Spanish work; exchange of quilt blocks and patterns. February 9: Program for Washington Bicentennial. March 8: Planting trees, shrubs, rock gardens, etc.; Spring clothes, sun-suits, bonnets, underwear. April 12: Planting vegetable and flower gardens; exchange of bulbs and seeds; 110 suggestions for house cleaning? formulas for paper and wall cleaner, floor wax and varnishes. May 10: Give short talk on storing of Winter clothing; short talk on redecorating homes, painting, color schemes, etc.; suggestions on making curtains and blinds. June 14: Demonstration in canning early fruit, samples to be contributed to Society; demonstration of Summer salads, drinks and foods. Teton Stake: VERY successful flower carnival was held at the Teton stake house in Driggs, Idaho, on August 30, 1931. There were six wards participating in the contest, every one of which received prizes and honorable mention for the display. There was very fine work accomplished through the efforts of the Relief Society in cooperation with some of the civic organizations, and it was a demonstration of the fact that beautiful flowers can be produced if the effort is made. It is the hope of this stake to make the flower carnival a yearly event, constantly growing larger and better. A free clinic for children was held in the stake for a period of two days, July 15 and 16. At this time more than 300 children were examined and some follow-up work was done. Hyrum Stake: HE annual stake social of the Hyrum stake Relief Society was held in honor of the officers and visiting teachers August 26, 1931, at 2:30 p. M. The scene of this pleasant event was the Hyrum First Ward Chapel. The social this year was also to commemorate the founding SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Hyrum stake Relief Society thirty years ago. The Relief Society stake president, Mrs. Laura L. Christensen, was in charge, and a very delightful program, historical and entertaining, was presented. It was in reality a historical review of the past thirty years. This was followed by a symbolic representation of Relief Society accomplishments by thirty former and present board members, who each in turn lighted a candle which decorated the large birthday cake. After the program, punch, cake and melons were served to 400 people. A highly interesting feature was the presence of three executive officers of the first organization. An extensive history of the activities, and the various officers of the Society from 1901 to the present date had been compiled, together with reviews of the various activities engaged in, and prose and poetical contributions from members of the various ward societies which will form a permanent record -of references for future time. St. George Stake. RELIEF SOCIETY Teachers' Conventions were held in Enterprise on October 13, 1931, and in St. George on October 18, 1931, for the wards in the vicinities. Inspirational talks were given by stake board members on the value of the visiting teachers' work, after which demonstrations on "Ineffective" and "Effective" teaching, were presented by members from various wards. In the Effective demonstration, the topic "Our Responsibility to Ourselves" was made very impressive to the hostess, and she was made to feel the benefit to be obtained spiritually, intellectually, physically and mentally by attending Relief Society. 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN: President First Counselor Mrs. Emma A, Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrg. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs, Cora L, Bennion Mrs. Lizzie {Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE' Editor: -. 0 a0 z 7 -: Manager Assistant Manager Mary CONNELLY KIMBALL Louise Y. Rosrson Amy Brown LYMAN Vol. XIX FEBRUARY, 1932 No. 2 EDITORIAL Bicentenary of George Washington IN a unique and beautiful way the people of the United States are celebrating the bicentenary of the birth of their first president, showing appreciation for his splendid services, and paying tribute to his beautiful life. They are honoring him by planting tens of thousands of trees, living memorials to one who loved trees and all Nature so devotedly. In schools and churches, in clubs and on public platforms, will instances of his life be retold and quotations from his writings and utterances be voiced. The press of the country will add its peans of praise to him whose integrity, ability, and patriotic service have stood out during these two centuries. Tine hurls down the unworthy from their pedestals and portrays more truly the worthy than is possible amidst the heat of the adulation of one's contemporaries. George Washington inherited, lived, and passed on to his fellow countrymen his family attributes, "Justice to man and faith in |God." We often hear him called the father of his country, and this is no mean appellation, for to be the father of such a country as the United States is honor indescribable. He is held up as the military leader, as the great president who with his associates formed the colonies, that had hitherto owed foreign allegiance, into a great American union. But seldom do we hear of "George Washington, the Christian gentleman," yet from childhood to his death he was a devout Christian. After the passing of his father, though he was but eleven years old, MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer 112 he was called upon, being the eldest son, to lead in family prayer. Throughout his life he called upon his Father frequently for aid and guidance, and gave him thanks for the blessings he had received and for the miraculous protection that had been accorded him. When he retired from the presidency, after reviewing the incidents of his administration, he said, "I may have committed errors. Whatever they may be I fervently beseech the Almighty to avert or mitigate the evils to which they may attend." He said, "It is impossible to reason without arriving at a Supreme Being," and hhaving this deep conviction, he reverently affirmed, "I shall always strive to prove a faithful and impartial patron of genuine vital religion." He was tolerant of the religious worship of others and felt that: "Every man conducting himself as a good citizen and being accountable to God alone for his religious opinions, ought to be protected in worshiping the Deity according to the dictates of his own conscience."' In his private and public life he participated in church activity. He attended religious services and held responsible positions in his church. Under his direction Sunday service was observed in the army. He said, "Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports." Throughout his military career, from the time he was placed in command of the troops of Virginia RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in 1754, to his farewell address to the armies of the United States, by example and |by precept he sought to turn the hearts of his soldiers toward religion and morality, and to impress upon them the importance of cleanliness of body, mind and spirit. In his Farewell Address when he retired from the presidency of the United States, he expressed the thought that national morality cannot prevail if religious principle be excluded. He said, "Where is the security for property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths which are the instruments of investigation in the Courts of Justice?" His love of justice and fair play is shown in his letter written to Benedict Arnold who was (given command of a detachment of the Continental Army against Quebec. He said, "While we are contending for our own liberty, we should be very cautious of violating the Rights of Conscience in others, ever considering that God alone is the judge of the Hearts of men and to Him only in this case, they are answerable." Because of his religious faith, death had no terrors for him. On one occasion, when sorely ill, he said to his physician, "Do not flatter me with vain hopes; I am not afraid to die. * * * Whether tonight or twenty years hence makes no difference?I know that I am in the hands of a good Providence." In his last illness, as the Angel of Death approached, he resolutely said, "I am not afraid to go." Leisure HE importance of the way people spend their leisure is being more and more clearly understood. Time When they are at work they are, generally speaking, safe. Danger lurks in the leisure hours if they EDITORIAL are not wisely spent. When one pursues the activities that lure him most strongly he is either building himself physically, mentally or spiritually or he is partaking of dead sea apples than canker his soul. The necessity of careful supervision of leisure hours is becoming more and more apparent. A shorter working day and a five day working week are being agitated. If these come more leisure will be the lot of the workers and the need for direction and supervision will be greater. We are proud of the success that is attending the leisure time pro113 gram under the able leadership of the M. I. A. Here again is shown how the Church looks after the well being of its people and how zealously it safeguards their interest. The M. I. A. Is training leaders to meet the need. An army of enthusiastic young people are wholeheartedly giving time and thought to the needs of the people and are correlating the work so that there shall be no friction nor overlapping. We bespeak the close cooperation and the heartiest support of all our Relief Society officers and members in the Leisure Time Program outlined and supervised by the M. I. A. Funerals UNERALS, it has often been said, are for the living, not for the dead. In the hurry of life 'tis well when a loved one passes to pause and with tender hearts, appreciative feelings and loving memories gather to pay respect to the departed and comfort to the bereaved. The links of friendship formed in childhood, youth, mature age, are welded as the friends assemble and in memory list the virtues _ of the friend gone before. In song, eulogy, prayer and sermon the listeners' minds are focused on the worthwhile things of life and on the hopes of the world beyond. Not the wealth nor the rank nor the title of the deceased are considered, but appreciation for the virtues he exhibited, for the struggles he endured, for the victories he won, fill the minds of those assembled. In chastened mood, with mellowed hearts, the friends disperse resolved to live better lives so that they, too, may be ready for the summons home. Our Savior By Elsie E. Barrett Oh marvelous intelligence To reach such heights of emminence That wind and wave obey His will. All elements His Calls fulfill. Oh wonderful that we can be Partakers of His sympathy; That He can save us from our sin; That we can be to Him akin. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) Select Readings: many distinct ideas on religion are given here? Book oF Mormon: Nephite leaders of thought had an idea that religion ought to begin at this end instead of the other end of life. To this idea. We have already called attention. Also we have remarked upon the bearing of this conception on the divine origin of the Book of Mormon. If Joseph Smith were the uninspired author of that record, he would most probably have been more concerned in the remote than in the near-by in theology, as his contemporaries were. In nothing is this tendency to consider the near-end of religion in the Book of Mormon more pronounced than in the subject of the present. Lesson. The highly moral tone of the Gold Bible was what struck early converts to "Mormonism." It impressed the __ practical-minded George Q. Cannon, whose words we have quoted elsewhere. And it greatly impressed Willard Richards. After he had read the Book of Mormon twice in ten days and before he had joined the church, he said, "Either God or the devil has had a hand in that book, for man never wrote it." The Nephites had a high conception of the value of the human personality. That we have also considered. It would follow, from this conception, that they would condemn severally all forms of murder and that they would safeguard hu_ death." Study Alma, chapters 12 to 15, inclusive. How What are they? In What Does Goodness Consist? Man life in every way. And this they did. "Wo unto the murderer who deliberately killeth,"' says the prophet Jacob, brother of Nephi the First, 'for he shall die." That was in the fifth century B. C., when the Lehites had been on the American continent but a few years. They brought this law with them from Palestine? an echo of the Ten Commandments. But observe its form. The murderer "who deliberately killeth."' This phrase takes into consideration the condition under which any murder is committed. Is this phrase an outgrowth of Nephi's experience with Laban at the time he got the Brass Plates? This strong condemnation of murder is in harmony with what is said elsewhere in the Record on the point. The same authority?Jacob ?places murder as one of the "'secret works of darkness" in the land, which must be destroyed. (II Nephi, 10:15.) In one of his letters to his son Moroni,(Moroni, 9:10), Mormon attributes murder, which he strongly condemns, to "hardness of heart." The Nephites believed in capital punishment. Alma the younger tells us (Alma, 30:10) that if a man murdered, "he was punished unto Presumably the judge took into consideration the conditions under which the crime was committed LESSON DEPARTMENT as well as the motive that led to it. In the ninth chapter of Helaman we have an account of five persons placed under arrest for the murder of the chief judge. In this case, as it happens, the accused were innocent, but the point is that they were apprehended by the law. The converted Nephite had a perfect horror of the taking of human life, and he would do so only where it was in self-defense. There are many cases in point. Moroni, the military chief, always refrained from unnecessary killing in war. In the battle with Zerahemnah (Alma, chapter 43) he takes the very first opportunity, although he is victorious, to stop the "flow of blood." Later, during the Great War between the Nephites and the Lamanites, he does not 'deal death to the enemy" when it is possible to win without doing so. This was partly because the Nephites considered the Lamanites less culpable than themselves in their wrong-doing on account of their lack of civilization and religion. When, however, the Nephites did the same things as the Lamanites, such leaders as Moroni were less considerate. And then, of course, the Nephite war leaders were always anxious to -save their own soldiers. Sexual sins were severely dealt with in Book of Mormon times. That there were lapses from virtue among the Nephites goes without saying, for they were human. But these were punished. There was no winking at them at any time during the reign of religion on the continent. The ideal here also was derived from the teachings of Moses, which were contained on the Brass Plates. Jacob, in the same place where he speaks of murder, inveighs as strongly against unchastity. "Wo unto them who commit whoredoms,"' 115 he says (lI Nephi, 9:36), "for they shall be thrust down to hell." And Abinadi tells the profligate priests of Noah, "Thou shalt not commit adultery." Alma informs his son Corianton, who has been guilty of harlotry, that "these things are an abomination in the sight of the Lord; yea, most abominable above all sins save it be the shedding of innocent blood or denying the Holy Ghost." Jacob represents the Lord as saying, "I, the Lord God, delight in the chastity of women. And whoredoms are an abomination before me; thus saith the Lord of Hosts." And in the letter of Mormon to Moroni, from which we have already quoted, chastity, virtue is stated to be "the most dear and precious thing" in the world, and "above all things." That will give an idea of the value which the Nephites placed upon chastity. Of course, the Nephites, as well as the Jaredites, believed in marriage and the family life. This is evident on almost every page of the Book of Mormon. Over and over again reference is made in "Ether" to the large families of the first Jaredites. And the journey of the Lehites to the Promised Land was delayed, as you remember, so that the sons of Lehi might have wives from the family of Ishmael. Marriage is ordained of God. It is primarily a religious ordinance. In other words, marriage is a thing of the spirit as well as of the body. At all events, it is this ceremony that makes any union of the sexes valid. And any union of the sexes outside of this ritual is unholy. Herein lies chastity and herein lies unchastity, according to the Book of Mormon.. But men and women, under the religious polity of the Nephites. Were required to do more than to 116 refrain from committing murder and sexual sins. In the first place, there were the virtues of honesty, truthfulness, tolerance, brotherliness, and so on. "Wo unto the deaf," says Jacob (9: 31-38), "that will not hear; for they shall perish. Wo unto the blind that will not see; for they shall perish also. Wo unto the uncircumcised of heart, for a knowledge of their iniquities shall smite them at the last day. Wo unto the liar, for he shall be thrust down to hell. Yea, wo unto those that worship idols, for the devil of all devils delighteth in them. And, in fine, wo unto all those who die in their sins; for they shall return to God, and behold his face, and remain in their sins." What the great Alma said to his son Helaman seems to have been the law of the entire nation: 'How strict are the commandments of God. And he said: If ye keep my commandments ye shall prosper in the land; but if ye keep not my commandments, ye shall be cut off from my presence," In the second place, the best kind of goodness required was a membership in the church, not only because the church included every virtue, but also because the association of man with man in a good cause always gives strength to carry on. The Nephites had a church organization even before the advent of Christ in the flesh. Of necessity the church had ordinances. Ordinances are forms. Forms inhere in all society. No organized life socially is possible without forms of some kind. The nation? any nation?has: its forms for the admission of aliens. So, too, have clubs, fraternities, and _ sororities, and other social groups. In truth, language itself. Whether written or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE spoken, is a matter of forms, tokens, or symbols. Forms stand for things and ideas. Also they conserve life. No permanence in ideas is possible without some sort of symbols. And so the church, which is organized power, needs forms, symbols, tokens. One of the forms in the Nephite church, as in the church of the Nez Testament, was baptism. According to the Record it was administered only to adults and was by immersion of the whole body in water. "Verily I say unto you," Jesus tells the Nephites on the occasion of his visitation to them after his resurrection, "whosoever repenteth of his sins through your words, and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them. Ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them. These are the words which ye shall say, calling them by name, Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water. After this manner shall ye baptize in my name." (III Nephi, 11:23-27.) The Book of Mormon condemns infant baptism in unstinted language. Says the prophet Mormon (Moroni, 8:10-15): "Tt is solemn mockery before God that ye should baptize little children. Teach repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and capable of committing sin. Teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little children, and they shall be saved with their little children. Their little children need no repentance, neither baptism; but little children are alive in Christ. He that supposeth that little children need baptism LESSON DEPARTMENT is in the gall of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity; for he hath neither faith, hope, nor charity; wherefore, should he be cut off while in the thought, he must go down to hell. For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he hath no baptism." Moreover, baptism was for the remission of sin in the Nephite church. 'The first fruits of repentance," continues Mormon (verses 24, 25), "is baptism; and baptism cometh by faith unto the fulfilling the commandments; and the fulfilling the commandments bringeth remission of sins; and the remission of sins bringeth meekness, and lowliness of heart; and because of meekness and lowliness of heart cometh the visitation of the Holy Ghost, which Comforter filleth with hope and perfect love, which love endureth by diligence unto prayer, until the end shall come when all the Saints shall dwell with God." The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was another of the ordinances in the ancient church on the American continent. This was so, however, only after the visitation of Christ to the Nephites. The manner and purpose was the same as among the Latter-day Saints. It was a sign of brotherhood among church members, as it is with us. The words used in the blessing of the Emblems are identical with those used in our Sacrament. (Moroni, chapters 4, 5.) At the same time that Jesus instituted the Sacrament among the Nephites he gave this admonition: "Ye shall not suffer any one knowingly to partake of my flesh and blood unworthily, when ye shall administer it; for whoso eateth and drinketh my flesh and blood unworthily 117 eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul; therefore if ye know that a man is unworthy to eat and drink of my flesh and blood ye shall forbid him." Here, then, is the case for the Book of Mormon religious ideals. It teaches (1) that a church is necessary with (a) faith, (b) repentance, (c) baptism, (d) confirmation, if we are to draw an inference, (e) the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper; (2) that human life must be held sacred, except in case of self-defense, as in war, and in case of such a crime as demands punishment by death at the hands of the political government; (3) that virtue, chastity, is as dear as life itself and the opposite the most "abominable" of sins, next to murder; and (4) that such virtues as honesty, loyalty, truthfulness, tolerance, charity, and the like are as necessary as any other to salvation. Questions 1. What is the proper function of the church? How is it that we need forms in the church? Show that forms inhere in life. What would you answer to one who said he does not believe organized Christianity to be necessary, that personal religion is the only thing necessary to any one? What is personal religion? Name the ordinances in use in the church of the ancient Nephites. What is the specific use and purpose of each? It has been objected that Joseph Smith, in the Book of Mormon, takes up matters that were currently discussed in his time and neighborhood. Baptism, for instance. How would you answer this objection? Compare the doctrines mentioned in the Nephite Record with those in vogue now in the churches. Teachers' Topic Watchword: be to this house.' ?Luke 10:5. Text: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace "And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.''?Matthew 25:40. Unselfishness, kindness and generosity are the three virtues one should cultivate to conform to our text. Literature is replete with the theme of this passage. One of the most beautiful short stories, showing the greatness of these words is? "Where Love is, There God is Also," by Leo Tolstoy, translated from the Russian by Nathan Haskell Dole. This is the story of the life of a simple shoemaker, Martuin Avdyeitch. This honest man made many acquaintances, and he was never out of work. His wife died, leaving him with a son three years old. In a few years the son died, and Avdyeitch became melancholy and complained of God. Once a little old man came to him and said, "We must live for God, Martuin. He gives you life, and for His sake you must live. When you begin to live for Him, you will not grieve over anything, and all will seem easy to you. You know how to read: buy a Testament, and read it; there you will learn how to live for God." This, Martuin Avdyeitch did, and every moment he could spare from work, he read and read. One night, while reading, he fell asleep and suddenly he, plainly heard: "Martuin! Ah, Martuin! Look tomorrow on the street. I am coming." He could see no one, but at daybreak the next morning, after saying his prayers, he had breakfast and sat by the window to work. Many passed by, and finally an old man, Stepanuitch, began to shovel away the snow from in -front of the window. Martuin was always looking, because he said he imagined Christ was coming to see him. Stepanuitch stopped shoveling to warm himself and rest, so Martuin tapped on the window for him to come in. He gave him something to eat, and invited him to come again. Stepanuitch said, "May Christ reward you for this." And now there came by the window a woman with a child, and she stood near the window-case trying to wrap up the child, and she had nothing to wrap it up in. Avdyeitch cried, "My good woman, Why are you standing in the cold with the child. Come in." He gave her food and clothing, and the woman said, "May Christ bless you, little grandfather!"' Next the old apple woman put her basket down in front of his window, and as she did so a small boy with a torn cap took an apple. She pulled the boy's hair, scolded and threatened to take him to the policeman. Avdyeitch took the child and said to the woman, "God has commanded us to forgive, else, too, we may not be forgiven." He then went to his shop, put away his things, got down the Testament from the shelf, and he remembered his last night's dream, and Stepanuitch, the woman with the child, and the old woman and the boy with the apple, stepped forth from the dark corner, and the voice repeated, "It was I." He put on his spectacles and read: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." References: "The Other Wise Man," by Henry Van Dyke; "Abou Ben Adhem," by Leigh Hunt; "Requirement," 'by Whittier; "My Task," by Maude Louise Ray. LESSON DEPARTMENT 119 Literature Tue Short Story IN AMERICA Parr IT To the teacher: It might be well if during this month and the one following it, the stake leaders and the ward instructors would concentrate on outside reading. We have come to our own period in the American short story?a period when stories are numerous, interesting and worth while and are available to almost every organization through city, school, or private libraries. These next two lessons can be made the most practical of all. The women's appreciation for the short story has been heightened, and they should read the stories with enjoyment and some critical insight. Too much of the class time should. Not be given over to the discussion of the first part for two important figures, both women, Sarah Orne Jewett, now dead, and Willa Sibert Cather, whose last book appeared a few months ago, are to be considered. At the end of the lesson, a list of short story collections and short stories will be given, but it will be best for the stake and ward leaders to make their own lists from available material. * Ok Ok This month's lesson sketches the status of the short story after Bret Harte to the eighties when the term short story came to have a definite meaning and place, down to the journalization of the short story. This period gave us H. C. Bunner, T. B. Aldrich, Brander Matthews, Henry James, William Dean Howells, and Frank R. Stockton. It was Brander Matthews, a brilliant and scholarly young writer and critic who formulated the laws for the short story. These laws, originality, unity, compression, brilliancy of style, action, form, and substance. And if possible, fantasy have been reiterated many times in the course. In the nineties the short story came into its own. Young writers who had studied the French and American masters were ready to blaze trails; Kipling was writing his virile stories of India and was for a time living in America; sensational prize story contests were beginning: and authors were being paid prices that would have sounded like hallucinations to Hawthorne and Poe. These young writers of the nineties began to think their masters antiquated. They asserted that the older men told only half truths, while they intended to follow Truth, selecting nothing, rejecting nothing, quite after the manner of the Russians. Hamlin Garland with his realistic stories of the Middle Border, Mary Wilkins Freeman, vivid pictures of the Old Testament status of women in fast-departing New 'England, James Lane Allen with his Kentucky tales. Grace Elizabeth King and her New Orleans, Alice Brown of New England, Mary Catherwood and her frontier stories, and Margaret Deland with her wise old Dr. Lavendar are all of this period of the short story just before the art became a recognized industry. By nineteen hundred the short story writers were legion. Many of them, products of the newspaper world, wrote as they would write a newspaper story, brief, startling? good for the moment, and useless on the morrow. For the most part these writers believed that they should always be in the midst of people, studying them, giving them exactly what they wanted. They decided 120 that they must not plunge too deeply into life and its meanings, and they must not live apart as Hawthorne had done. Cheap magazines, called pulp because of the inferior quality of paper, appeared everywhere, and there were writers willing to meet the new market. Among the leaders of the journalistic school of the better kind are Richard Harding Davis, F. Hopkinson Smith, William Allen White, Owen Wister, Stephen Crane, Stewart Edward White, and Jack 'London. After them came O'Henry, the last man (at the present time) who was able to influence the direction of the short story. He is of our own time and needs no introduction to readers. Critics say of him that he was "a prince of story tellers," but that he had no philosophy of life, and that he commercialized his work to a damaging extent. Primarily he was an entertainer, and all his bits of fine words, beautiful style, and real sentiment were usually turned in the end to vaudeville. He knew the art of compression. If he had tried to write seriously, he might have been one of the greatest of the great. In spite of journalization, the short story in America has had its men and women who have tried to make it a high art of expression. Quality and quantity have both been produced. There is little time here to discuss some of the writers who were young at the beginning of the century and who are still writing _ today. Among the names are those of Edith Wharton, James Branch Cabell, Theodore Dreiser, and Willa Cather. To begin on them would trespass on next month's lesson. Willa Cather will be studied now because of her relation to Miss Jewett and because she is one of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ?best of the older, younger writers. She, like the journalist, writes of life as it goes on about her, but she has gone a little deeper in its meanings than many of her fellow craftsmen, and she has written more to please herself than the markets. It is fitting to study Miss Jewett and Miss Cather together. When Miss Cather was going through her writing apprenticeship, she was an admirer of Miss Jewett's writings and a close friend. Indeed, Willa Cather has often credited Miss Jewett with much of her inspiration. Miss Cather has more people who place her as a major writer than those who would consign her to minor ranks. Way back in Dr. Johnson's time he went about berating those who would waste their time reading Milton, so it is not for us to judge too freely of our own times. Indications are that Miss Cather will hold her place in the first ranks and that Miss Jewett, if she does not have a niche among the very great in the Hall of Fame, will have a very important place among the lesser figures. Sarah Orne Jewett was born at South Berwick, Maine, in 1849. Her ancestry, save for a trace of French blood, was pure New England. She lived with her doctor father in a beautiful, colonial home and knew from him the ailments, frailties, nobilities, joys, and sorrows of his patients. Because she was not strong, she was educated at home. A great deal of her time she spent "out-of-doors. This outdoor life left strong traces in her work. It gave it sanity, sweetness, and the gift to make her readers see the marshes, the pines, the sea, the spring flowers, and the summer gardens. After her girlhood she traveled a great deal and lived a good part of LESSON DEPARTMENT the time in Boston. She met the great minds of her day, but in her writing she chose to portray the scenes and people she had known in earlier life. She wrote in a day of exaggerated dialect, but she did not follow the pervading fashion. Unlike the most of our writers, she wrote to please herself, and her language gives the spirit of the talk of these New Englanders, rather than the letter of it. Willa Cather says that in Miss Jewett's stories she was able to get the look of the people she wrote about, "The shy, kind,? a little wistful look that shines out at one from good country faces on remote farms. It is the look itself -??and therefore is a little miracle." Willa Cather also said of her friend in speaking of writers (and the same is true of herself). "If he achieve anything noble, anything enduring, it must be by giving himself absolutely to his material. And this gift of sympathy is his great gift; is the fine thing in him that alone can make his work fine." That gift Miss Jewett had. She was in absolute sympathy with her people. Her limitations are those of the writer who writes too delicately, too restrainedly, with too much of the feminine touch and whose music is a minor note. But she has left for us a characteristic flavor of a New England that has passed away. She has a delightful sense of humor and a style, exquisite in its simplicity. A few years before her death in 1909, an Atlantic Monthly writer paid her this tribute: "And I should hike, for my own part, to add this: that the fragrant, retiring, exquisite flower, which I think she would say is the symbol of New England virtue, is the symbol also of her own modest and delicate art." Willa Cather came from a different 121 environment. She was born in Virginia in 1876, but when she was quite young, she moved to the Middle West, to Nebraska if memory serves correctly. She knew this western country in its growing up days, its stormy winters, its hot, dry summers, its grave problems. She also knew the Southwest and her love for its geld and blue days, its bright clad Indians, and its cliff dwellings, have crept into nearly all of her writings. She is a reserved woman, entirely disregarding the publicity that seems to be a necessary part of most successful authors' lives. It is from her writings that we learn about her rather than from the things written of her. She writes honestly and freely of the people and places she knows. One has only to read her "Wagner Matinee" or "Sculptor's Funeral" to know how fearless she is and how little she cares for lesser opinions. She writes of the sordidness and hard struggle of life as well as of the beauty of it and the joys of achievement. She believes in courage, strength, work, and in the right of people to struggle for the beauties of the intellectual world. When she was a young girl, she taught school. Teaching, however, she believed to 'be a blind alley for a person of intelligence and talent. Neither did she care for newspaper work. She seemed always to know where she was going, and it is quite safe to say that she has achieved many of the things she hoped for. She does not write unless she cares to, and she also writes. The things that please her. She is a careful writer, giving much time to the polishing of her style and to the rounding out of her beautiful and vivid figures of speech. She lives part of the time in New 122 York City in a modest old place down in Greenwich Village, and she often travels. Her books, if one has read "Death 'Comes to the Archbishop" and "Shadows on the Rock," require a great deal of study in preparation. In June, 1931, she came West to receive an honorary degree from the University of California. People who knew her through her pictures were surprised to find her with iron grey hair and with an air of fraility. There is so much vigor in her writing even though much of her physical strength has been spent. The list of her writings is not large, "Song of the Lark," "My Antonia," "O Pioneers," "One of Ours," "The Lost Lady, "The Professor's House," "'Death Comes to the Archbishop," "Shadows on the Rock," and two collections of short stories, if memory serves aright. In 1930 she also wrote a short story that appeared in The Wioman's Home Companion. It was a return to the farm people she knew in her girlhood. "Miss Tempeys Watchers This is a story of three people who lived in a small New Hampshire town. Its primary emphasis is upon character. There are only three persons in the story, two women and their dead neighbor. Through their conversation, chiefly centered on the dead woman upstairs, Miss Jewett makes known to us the life history of the three, their hopes, their philosophy of life, their thoughts, and their place in the little town. Its underlying theme is the effect of the dead woman's influence on the two friends who have agreed to "watch" the night before the funeral. Of the three women, 'Temperance Dent is the most unselfish, the most understanding and sympathetic,  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and has had the most profound influence upon the lives of her associates. Sarah Ann Binson is like Miss Tempey in many ways, but we feel that she lacks the dead woman's grace and charm and much of her imagination. In Mrs. Crowe we are more apt to see an old friend. She is the one easiest to understand, the one troubled with more frailties. She is an ordinary woman, selfish in her plenty, with little of the imagination possessed by, Temperance Dent, but not quite blind to her faults. Two of the author's sentences explain her: "She was a stingy woman, but for all that she looked kindly; and when she gave away anything or lifted a finger to help anybody, it was thought a great piece of beneficence and a compliment indeed, which the recipient accepted with twice as much gratitude as double the gift that came from a poorer and more generous acquaintance." * * * "It ain't so easy for me to give as it is for some." Running through the story is a thought that has been with us since the first man?the thought of death, which is usually one of fear. Miss Jewett makes us see this fear through the eyes of the three women, and then she would have us believe that death is not to be feared, that it is a beautiful experience. The story lifts a curtain on a small part of the old New England that was a heritage from the Puritans. It is told with beautiful simplicity and it is a heartening tale in spite of its theme. * Ok Ok Willa Cather's "A Wagner Matinee" is a story of a woman who was a product of New England culture but who was transplanted from Boston at a time when it was the "Athens of America" to a dugout on a Nebraskan farm. And quite as simple as Miss Jewett, Miss Cather shows us a woman who loved music passionately, but who lived away from it, struggling with poverty, indifference, the hard winters, and the long, dry summers. The story shows how the woman's love for music and her remembrance of her younger days were gradually being killed, and how, when they were seemingly dead, they were all brought back by the sound of some music she had never thought to hear. It is a story of woman's courage, her ability to sacrifice for those she loves, and her gift of passing on to someone younger her love of an art that once dominated her. Some people will say that Miss Cather is too cruel and prejudiced in her portrayal of farm life, but there will be others who will admire her for her truthful picture and for the tribute she pays the Aunt Georgias of this life. Others will say that the story contains too many episodes, but Miss Cather writes of things as they are. In reading the story it is well to remember that the farm Miss Cather pictures is one from her girlhood and not a Nebraska farm of 1932. Much of the culture of the East has come West since then, and a lover of music can hear a Wagner matinee by turning a dial.
If the two stories are presented in one lesson, there will be little time for questions. Some teachers will be interested in contrasting the style of the two women, in showing how Miss Cather is more bold, more apt to tell the whole truth than Miss Jewett, and in discussing the differences between the New England life and that of the Nebraska farm. Each story gives a period in our civilization, Miss Jewett's of the old, settled, New England that was still influenced by the Puritans, and Miss Cather's the Puritan descendant transplanted into primitive conditions. How environment has affected the characters is a question worth studying. Other teachers will enjoy a discussion of Miss Jewett's three characters, their different philosophies, their character growth (changes shown in the story), and their views on life and death. If the teacher has time, it will be well to pause a moment to pick out some of Miss Cather's figures of speech and show how apt they are and how they make the picture more vivid. Aunt Georgiana and Miss Tempey are both splendid women. Show how they were alike in their unselfishness and how they were unlike in their education, their hopes, and their ways of living. Note, too, how the stories are more true to their environment than previous American stories.
Some wards and stakes are either planning or intending to plan a short story contest. This next month would be a good time to conduct the contest, substituting the members' stories for the third lesson on the short story in America. No program is offered for the contest as the stake leaders will plan for their own needs.
List For Outside Reading
(Class Leaders may suggest other writers and other stories.)
Jewett?"Country of the Pointed Firs," "The Lost Lover," "The White Heron," "An Only Son," "Marsh Rosemary," or any stories from her long list of collections.
Willa Cather (story collection)?"Youth and Bright Medusa."
Thomas Nelson Page?"In Ole Virginia" and other stories.
William Dean Howells?"Suburban Sketches," "The Sleeping Car" and "Other Farces."
Frank R. Stockton?"The Lady or the Tiger" and other stories.
James Brander Matthews?"In Partnership," "Vignettes of Manhattan."
Henry C. Bunner?"Short Sixes," "More Short Stories."
James Lane Allen?"Flute and Violin," "The Doctor's Christmas Eve."
Hamlin Garland, "Main-Traveled Roads," "Prairie Folks," "Wayside Courtships."
Mary Wilkins Freeman?"A Humble Romance and Other Stories," "A New England Nun," "Silence," or any other collection.
Alice Brown?"Meadow Grass," "Tiverton Tales."
Richard Harding Davis?"Gallegher and Other Stories," "Van Bibber and Others," "The Man Who Could Not Lose."
Owen Wister?"Red Men and White."
William Allen White?"The Real Issue and Other Stories."
O'Henry?Any collection.
Edith Wharton?"Ethan Frome."
Literature and Social Service (Fourth Week in April)
PERSONALITY STUDY: DIAGNOSING AND INFLUENCING THE PUBLIC
(Based on Overstreet's "Influencing Human Behavior," pp. 201-216)
We have learned that the "entering wedge" for making fundamental changes in persons is to consider the individual as made up quite largely of different sets of habits, each of which may be dealt with more or less separately thus greatly simplifying an otherwise extremely complex and discouragingly difficult problem. In trying to diagnose and influence what we call the Public we should be staggered into almost utter helplessness if we could not simplify the problem in some similar way. Happily we can do just this very thing. It will prove very helpful for us to think of the Public much as was done in the case of Alice in one of our previous lessons. Just as she was thought of as a more or less unified aggregate of habit-systems with certain major ones dominating other minor ones, so the otherwise mysterious Public can be understood and managed to some extent in about the same way.
Alice was a shut-in, listless, and unsuccessful child, a real problem to her teachers and her foster parents. Miss Jones, the visiting teacher or school psychologist, applied herself to the task of understanding and helping the child. Her feelings of inferiority, her habitual lethargy, and seeming lack of splendid personality possibilities were found to be dominated by a certain habit deficiency which until then had been accepted as but one more element of a more or less fixed pattern of undesirable personality traits. The habit system in question centered in her poor ability to read. Miss Jones knew that this could be improved. Furthermore her training in psychology made her feel reasonably sure that the improvement of this habit would prove to be the golden key by which her personality would be released for more adequate and more desirable expression along several other lines. The insight of Miss Jones in this case proved to be right, for the means devised on this basis proved very successful in "waking up" Alice and greatly changing her personality for the better. (See text, pages 149-153.)
By way of comparison Overstreet tells of the consequences of the undeveloped reading habit-system on the part of the pre-war Russian peasant Public. A person well acquainted with conditions among the Russian peasants at that time reasoned that, "because they could not read, they were lonely; and so, of course, they drank." It is not improbable that a whole train of bodily habits, appetite habits, emotional habits (involving, for example, uncleanliness, thriftlessness, enmity, etc.) were made to operate as prominent parts of their lives largely because of the illiteracy of these peasants. Today a tremendous effort is being made to remedy the formerly very inadequate reading habit-system of the Russian peasant Public. We may well be on the lookout for reliable information concerning the effects of these new policies upon the so-called Russian peasant mind. Of course many other new measures are being tried in this far-flung if not really great Russian experiment and we cannot be sure that either good or bad effects to be observed are due in large part to the efforts being made to provide more adequate reading skills and habits. The writer, however, believes with Overstreet that probably the defective reading habit-system in this case has been rightly recognized as at least one of the great keys with which to release the Russian peasant Public from the hindering effects of quite a number of other more obvious and more distressing defects.
Most of the readers of this lesson are without doubt somewhat acquainted with the history of the so-called emancipation of women. Some of the people who have been prominent in this cause have had great confidence in verbal agitation. How often were their efforts fruitless and what tenacity of purpose was required to keep them from giving up when even their sisters and mothers tended to nullify all their impassioned pleas for needed emancipation. Certain "clinging vine" and "Doll's House" habits of less forward-looking women prevented what was said or written of a better day to be achieved, from taking effect. At last we find that legal provisions for political independence of women have been made rather extensively. What made this task so very difficult at one time and so relatively easy later on? What was the matter with the Public at one time and what so good about it later so far as this particular cause was concerned? It would be proper no doubt to concede that the verbal agitation was of some value?was even quite essential. But we who would like to understand and influence the Public should recognize clearly that certain changes in the physical, emotional, and mental habits of women which have taken place mostly in the last quarter of a century have also been potent indirect promoters of the cause of political equality of the sexes. Overstreet discusses particularly the new habit-systems making for the physically fit woman, new industrial changes in which women shared making for greater economic freedom, and gradually achieved habit-systems which made numerous women the equals of well-trained men educationally speaking. That these were crucial or determinant habit-systems in relation to this long struggle is quite evident. What relation to future steps of progress or regression will such pseudo-symbols of equality have as the liquor-drinking and tobacco-smoking habit-systems of many modern "emancipated" females? How can we further diagnose and influence a world-wide Public so that a really honorable and worthy emancipation for all our sisters will be achieved? What are the key-habits to be encouraged so that further domestic, political, social, educational, and religious equality will not be too long delayed or merely agitated by ineffective verbal methods? How can we help our sisters to appreciate both the privileges and responsibilities of their new freedom, and not to content themselves with flaunting unworthy symbols of their rights at the risk of not appreciating at all the realities which could be theirs?
The author of our text again illustrates the technique he wishes to make clear to us by a brief account of how we became a temperate people. He seems not to belong to the noisy bluffers who try to make us think that Americans consume more liquor now than before the adoption of the eighteenth amendment. He says that intemperance practiced to any great extent necessarily belongs to the days before the widespread use of powerful and rapidly driven machinery in industry and transportation and before the use of complex commercial devices which require dependable human operators in order that the vital interests of the many may be adequately safeguarded. (We should not allow these illustrations to make us feel that there is little or nothing that we can do just because we lose some confidence in the methods of admonition and sentimental preaching. What Overstreet says about agricultural work-habits as determinants should be of special interest to us. He gives rather interesting reasons for believing the typical farmer to be the outstanding example of the pietist, the individualist, and the "slow" type of mind. The Mormon farmer on account of the interestingly different village group-life has a somewhat different work-habit-system from the "typical farmer" which our author has in mind. The need of protection from enemies (either whites or Indians), a compact farm-village organization suggested by Joseph Smith, dependence upon limited fertile areas that could be irrigated, the frequent existence of large families of children who needed to be provided with convenient religious and secular education, the fact that many converts came from urban types of group organization as well as other common interests of the Mormon people all these have led to the establishment among us of a more or less unique type of rural work-habit-systems. Can you give the necessarily different diagnosis of the Mormon rural Public in view of the special pattern of work activities found in this group? From the above-mentioned considerations, would you expect to find consolidated, graded and well-supervised schools or poorly-equipped and ill-taught one-room schools in country districts where a majority of the population are Mormons? To what extent would you expect new truth to be readily accepted by rural Latter-day Saints? Would you expect our farmers to resist such evidently advantageous projects as cooperative buying and marketing, county fairs, county health units, county libraries, the world court, and increased taxation for needed service, such as they would otherwise purchase individually at more than twice the cost to themselves? Are they really so conservative that they get in their own way and hinder progress which they so much need? The writer once heard the noted lecturer Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman challenge the women Public by charging them with being the most conservative and non-progressive group in the world. She claimed that labor-saving devices, including the division of labor among women, were not used in the homes except as the men had forced certain mechanical devices upon them. She stood ready with a plan to banish most of what we call domestic drudgery and to save many hours each week that could be then devoted to recreational and cultural activities by the liberated women who would try her scheme or a better one. Perhaps her picture of the typical woman "working from sun to sun" was overdrawn. Perhaps the typical woman already has too much leisure on her hands. Perhaps she need not change her ways to make for greater opportunities for adequate self-realization. Perhaps Mrs. Gilman has been making use of a method inconsistent with the clear message of this lesson. How would you advise her in relation to the difficult task of influencing the behavior of a conservative woman Public? A more complete emancipation of woman waits upon the discovery of the crucial habit-systems of the people concerned and the devising of means for changing them.
Some Suggested Problems for Discussion
1. What is a common, wrong way for people to regard the Public in attempting to understand or to influence it? Briefly what is a better way to regard the Public in relation to this problem?
2. Compare the case of Alice with that of the pre-war Russian peasant Public.
3. Illustrate the main message of this lesson with an account of efforts to provide women with political emancipation.
4. Before the World War it was confidently assumed that anything like such a stupendous conflict could not take place and then it happened. Does the statement that any large amount of intemperance is impossible in a highly complex industrial and commercial society such as ours seem to you to be based also on a wrong diagnosis of conditions? Give reasons for your answer.
5. Find out all you can about the rural life of Denmark and compare the work-habit-systems there with those with which we are most familiar among our farm folks.
6. Read and comment on the two paragraphs above about Mrs. Gilman's challenge.
7. It has been said that one of our great needs is to better understand the young people?to translate our religion for them into language which they will understand and respect. If you were trying to diagnose and influence the Mormon-rising-generation Public what would be your line of attack?
8. If possible look up the number of one-room schools in Missouri, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Utah. How do you account for these conditions? (See abstract of U. S. Census or report of U. S. Commissioner of Education.)
9. Find these phrases in Chapter XII of our text and comment on each: "completely nullified," "Doll's House stage," "gentle sentimentalists," "culture from the housetops," "diagnosing jingoism," and "crossers-of-boundaries."
Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty
EUREKA Burial Clothes Improvements Variety of Grades and Prices
This super-powered Eureka De Luxe cleans deeply, swiftly and thoroughly?removing all deeply embedded, stubborn dirt by "High Vacuum"?the identical cleaning principle of all costly installed systems built into large buildings and hotels. The new "full floating" brush automatically removes all lint, hair and other surface litter.
$5.00 Down Balance on Easy Terms
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Open Daily?9 A. M. To 5 P. M. Telephone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764
His Choice
"Prosperity has ruined many a man," remarked the moralizer. "Well," rejoined the demoralizer, "if I was going to be ruined at all I'd prefer prosperity to do it."
A Protracted Service
They must have long church services in a certain Western town where a paper announced of a certain church: "The regular services will commence next Sunday at 3 P. M., and continue until further notice."
They Were Speedy
Mrs. Todd went into a store to buy some spring ginghams. "Are these colors fast?" she asked the clerk. "Yes, indeed," he replied earnestly; "you ought to see them when once they start to run."
How It Was Accounted For
"How does it happen," said the teacher to the new pupil, "that your name is Allen and your mother's name is Brown?" "Well," explained the small boy, after a moment's thought, "you see, she married again and I didn't."
A Surprise for the Teacher
"This class comprehends the meaning of words very quickly," said the Boston teacher to her visitors. "You noticed we spoke of the word 'ransom' a few minutes ago. "How many"?turning to the children?"can think of a sentence containing the word 'ransom'? Every one. Yes, Harold?" Harold arose proudly. "My sister's beau ran some when Pa?" And then the children wondered why the class was dismissed three minutes early.
Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders
Temple and Burial Clothes
29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah
SEE THE NEW DE LUXE VACUUM CLEANER
NEW?MODERN?BEAUTIFUL Red Bag and 14 Other Major Improvements
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
QUEEN'S TASTE
SHORT LETTER CONTEST
G-E Electric Refrigerator and 200 Other Valuable Prizes. Your letter of 100 words or less may win one of these valuable prizes. This contest is open to everyone.
The rules are not exacting.
Get a package of Queen's Taste Macaroni Products now and ENTER AT ONCE
Complete information in every package of
QUEEN'S TASTE MACARONI PRODUCTS
ASK YOUR GROCER
Prosperity
"The saddest word of tongue or pen is the thought of what might have been."
No Jobs for Men of 65
So easy to look back and see the mistakes, Some that are drastic and bring on heartaches. Don't wait for experience to teach the sad facts, Endowments will avoid any side-tracks.
It certainly is mighty tough to reach a matured age and find naught but disappointment in the future outlook?mighty hard for a man to be alone?down and out as it were, but doubly sad for him when his old partner is forced to share the misfortune.
Circumstances that could well have been averted by a small investment in Life Insurance at a time when the premium payments would scarcely have been missed from a steady income.
IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager Home Office?Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Invest in Business and Personal Stationery... Business Forms... all kinds of binding... Hand Bills... Booklets... Wedding Stationery
Whether it's a big job or little, you'll get the best in service and the best work from our big, modern commercial printing plant.
Ask our representative to quote on your next job.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
USE BEET SUGAR
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine