Side Lights on the Book of Mormon
By John Henry Evans

III
FORM AND STRUCTURE

IF the Book of Mormon is a modern composition—that is, if it was written by Solomon Spaulding or Sidney Rigdon or the unaided Joseph Smith—then its literary form and structure and details generally would bear the stamp of modernity. But if, on the contrary, the Nephite Record is an ancient composition—that is, if Joseph Smith's account of its origin is true, that he translated it by divine power from gold plates given him by an angel—in this event the work would bear evidences of antiquity in form and structure and some of its details.

It is the purpose of the present article to examine, very briefly and inadequately, to be sure, some of the outstanding literary features of the book, with a view to ascertaining which of these corresponds with the facts in the case.

To begin with, let us see just how the case stands as to the real authorship of the Book of Mormon.

As everyone knows, the first theory, the theory of Joseph Smith's neighbors about the time the work appeared, was that Joseph Smith himself wrote it. Of course, they discounted the idea that he was divinely inspired to do so. What puzzled them, though, and piqued them as well, was that one of their own number, and one, too, whom they did not at all look up to, should have written a book. Nevertheless, there was nothing else to do than to believe that he had actually written it, because everything in the situation pointed that way. A year later Alexander Campbell, a Christian minister, accepted this idea as a fact.

And then came the Howe-Hulburt theory that Joseph Smith did not after all write the Book of Mormon, but that somebody else with more literary ability wrote it. And they looked about for that somebody. The result was the Spaulding-Rigdon theory.

According to this explanation Solomon Spaulding, who was a minister, wrote a manuscript about the first settlement of America by Romans. This manuscript he gave to a printer in Pittsburgh to look over. By some means not yet clear Sidney Rigdon, also a minister, got hold of the manuscript, rewrote it, and then somehow turned it over to the Palmyra youth, who published it under the title The Book of Mormon.

Nowadays, however, no one with a knowledge of the facts in the case accepts this theory of the origin of the work. It is believed only by those who are satisfied with a catch phrase, which for some reason they do not care to examine. The theory fairly bristles with difficulties—the connection between the printer and Rigdon, for instance, the connection between Rigdon and the Prophet, and the lack of similarities between the Spaulding manuscript, which was discovered about fifty years afterwards, and the Book of Mormon.

And so today there is almost no one to dispute the idea that Joseph Smith, somehow, is the one responsible for the Nephite Record. The only question is, Did he compose it with or without divine aid? In other words, is it an original composition by him or is it a translation of an ancient book? John Fiske, an American historian, accepts the theory that Joseph Smith is the author of the work and thinks no special talent was necessary to write it.

IN literary structure the Book of Mormon is complex rather than simple.

If the work were simple in form, it would carry but one thread of action throughout. That is to say, it would begin with the little colony that left Jerusalem six hundred years before Christ and follow their fortunes as they developed into a nation and then lost their national identity in the darkness that came on about four hundred years after Christ. In this event the narrative would be simple in its literary structure.

But the book does not do that. On the contrary, the narrative is full of digressions, interrupted by comments, explanations, and expositions of doctrine.

The story begins with the departure of Lehi's family and a few others from Palestine. Thence it carries the action forward across the sea to the Land of Promise, till they divide into the Nephites and the Lamanites. This, with some further action, covers the first one hundred and thirty-two pages of the current edition of the Record—from about 600 B. C. to about 200 B. C. This would be a period of about four hundred years. As a matter of fact, however, the greater portion of this is not narrative at all, but discussion and quotation.

If the entire period of Nephite history were written on this scale (less than four hundred years in one hundred thirty-two pages) and if we omit the quotations, then we should have a book of only about two hundred seventy-five pages.

The rest of the book is even more complex. But here the complications are in the narrative mainly, although in this part, too, there are long quotations and expositions of doctrine. During the whole period, of course, the two threads involving the two peoples are maintained. And then, after the lapse of about four hundred years, we learn for the first time that there have been people living on the continent almost from the time the Lehites arrived here, namely, the Mulekites, who also were Jews from Palestine. There are detours here, too, from the main narrative in the form of accounts of a missionary expedition and a new colony planted in the old home of the Nephites. Meanwhile, foreign wars and internal rebellion distract attention from the principal line of action. To cap the climax, we have at the end of the volume, by way of an after-thought, it would appear, a thirty-two-page abridgment of the record of a still different people, who occupied the continent before the coming of the Nephite-Mulekite nation; also some isolated documents giving the religious forms used among the Nephites in the days after Christ.

Not including the quotations, which are rather numerous here, too, the account of the events occurring in this period is given seven-tenths of a page per year. If the entire period of Nephite history were written on this scale, we should have a volume of almost exactly two hundred pages more than we have in our current edition of the Book of Mormon, or seven hundred twenty-five pages.

This involved structure is certainly not modern. It is far from what anyone would write even in the