[Vol19 | February 1932 | Sequence: 02g | Category: Editorial | Title: Leisure Time]
Leisure Time 112
Funerals 113
Our Savior Elsie E. Barratt 113
Lesson Department 114

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE  , Utah Telephone Wasatch 3123 Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.25 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer. LAUNDRY IP Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.

DRINK Brainard Cottonwood Dairy MILK

Before Men Used Money They Bartered Barter was the way the Pioneers did business?In real estate deals at the present time?the same methods are being used. Aged People Who wish to come to Salt Lake City to live?can exchange country property?for city property. TELL US YOUR STORY We feel sure we can help you find a Salt Lake home. Exchange Dept. Ashton-JJenkins Qo, $2 Main Street Warntch 123 Sale (ake City 382 So Main St. Was. 123 Salt Lake City

LDS. GARMENTS Good grade, and well made. Or old style, and if for man or lady. 464 Med. Lt., Ribbed cot $.95 147 Spring needle, combed cot 1.10 98 Special Rayon, Ladies 1,28 208 Med. Lt., cot., Ecrue or White 1.35 $2 Fine rib. Cotton, Game ties 1.50 256 Med. Wt. Firmly Knit cot 1.65 226 Med. Lt. Rayon Striped 1.45 Garments that satisfy, when ordering, state size, new Postage prepaid. 624 Lt. Wt. Luster Lisle $1.75 808 Run resisting Rayon 1.95 742 Med. Hvy., cot., Ecrue or White 1.75 904 Unbleached cot., Extra Hvy 2.00 1124 Med. Wt. Wool and cot. Mixed 2.50 1118 Med. Hvy., wool and cot. Mixed 3.50 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear: No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. Wat. No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. Our best selling wool numAn excellent Ladies' number $1.25 ber. Men's new or old style 2.75 No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. Wet. No... Cotton, our standard garment 1.25 ? x Leer, pera ceeeent. Ladies' new style 95 No. 3 Ribbed med. Wet. Cotton, bleached or unbleached. Our all season number. Men's new No. 7 Light weight Spring and Autumn garment. Men only 1.00 or old style 1.50 No. 8 Light weight silk for ladies No. 4 Ribbed heavy wet. Unonly, new style onlyv 1.00 bleached cotton. Ome double No. 9 Medium wet. Silk for men back number. Men's new or and women, new style only. Old style 2.00 Non-Run 1.95 In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. Special discount to missionaries. FACTORY TO YOU
THE ORIGINAL Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates No Necessity for Language "Does the baby talk yet?" asked a friend of the family of the little brother. "Naw," replied the little brother disgustedly. "He don't need to talk. All he has ter do is yell, and he gits everything in the house worth having." A Strict Sense of Duty The touring car had turned unside down, burying the motorist under it, but the village constable was not to be thus lightly turned from his duty. "Tts no use 'your hiding there," he said severely, "I must have your name and address.' 7 Henry's Whereabouts "Where is Henry?" asked the neighbor of the lady whose husband he wanted to see. "I don't know exactly,' said the wife; "if the ice is as thick as Hemry thinks it is he is skating; iff it is as thin as I think it is he is swimming.": j Getting Even A little boy who had been punished by his mother one day, and that night at bedtime he prayed thus:, "Dear Lord, bless Papa and Sister Lucy and Brother Frank and Uncle Fred and Aunt Mary and make me a good boy. Amen." Then looking up into his mother's face he said: "I suppose you noticed that you weren't in it." His Reason Going to the blackboard the teacher wrote this sentence: "The horse and the cow was in the stable." "Now, children," she said, "there is something wrong with that sentence. Who can correct it and tell why it is wrong?" One small boy waved his hand excitedly and the teacher called upon him." "It's wrong," he said with importance. "It ought to be, 'The cow and the horse was in the stable, because ladies always ought to go first." Washington "But it was ordained by Heaven, and for the good, as jwe can now have no doubt, of both Empires, that the great Western Republic should separate from us; and the gallant soldiers who fought on her side, their indomitable chief above all, have the glory of facing and overcoming not only veterans amply provided and inured to war, but wretchedness, cold, hunger, dissensions, treason within their own camp, where all must have gone to rack but for the pure unquenchable flame of patriotism that was forever burning in the bosom of the heroic leader. What constancy, | what magnanimity, what a surprising persistency against fortune! Washington, the chief of a nation in arms, doing battle with distracted parties; calm in the midst of conspiracy; serene against the open foe before him and the darker enemies at his back; Washington, inspiring order and spirit into troops hungry and in rags; stung by ingratitude, but betraying no anger, and ever ready to forgive; in defeat invincible, magnanimous in conquest, and never so sublime as on that day when he laid down his victorious sword and sought his noble retirement; here indeed is a character to admire and revere; a life without a stain, a fame without a flaw. The prize is not always to the brave. In our revolution it certainly did fall, for once and for a wonder, to the most deserving. His great and surprising triumphs were not in those rare engagements with the enemy where he obtained a trifling mastery, but over Congress; over hunger and disease; over lukewarm friends or smiling foes in his own camp, whom his great spirit had to meet and master. When the struggle was over, and our impotent chiefs who had conducted it began to squabble and accuse each other in their own defense before the nation, what charges and countercharges brought; what pretexts of delays were urged; what piteous excuses were put forward that this fleet arrived too late; that that regiment mistook its orders; that these cannon-balls would not fit those guns; and so on to the end of the chapter.. Here was a general who beat us with no shot at times, and no powder, and no money; and he never thought of a convention, his courage never even capitulated! Through all the doubts and darkness, the danger and long tempest of the war, I think it was only the American leader's indomitable soul that remained entirely steady. To endure is greater than to dare; to tire out hostile fortune; to be daunted by no difficulty; to keep heart where all have lost it; to go through intrigue spotless; to forego even ambition when the end is gained?who can say this is not greatness?" ?Thackery, in "The Virginians" GEORGE WASHINGTON Stanley Arthur THE Relief Society Magazine VoL, XIX FEBRUARY, 1932 The Place of Recreation in Our Lives By Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve T was recently stated by an eminent authority that modern inventions relieve. Man of so much labor that each American citizen has seventy slaves at his command. Thus he is freed from many hours of drudgery and given additional hours of leisure time. This may not yet be universally true for the average American citizen, but when adjustments are made it will be the case and there will be a reasonable length of time for work and a reasonable length of time for play. Now the question is, how shall we make use of this leisure time in a profitable way. Since there are certain definite objectives in our work, should there not be definite objectives with reference to the use of this leisure time? There is little danger of any one going wrong who is employed in honorable, gainful work. There is, however, grave danger that bad habits, unwholesome associations and questionable practices may develop through an improper use of this leisure time. It is said that you can never properly judge a man by watching him at his work. The hest way to discover him is to watch him at his play. Then he does as he wishes. When he is at work, he is serving other masters. IT remember standing on a cliff above the city of La Paz, the capital of Bolivia, looking to the distant summit of the Andes mountains. Reaching a height of over twentyone thousand feet, eternally snowcapped. I saw eagles circling far above even the summit of these mountains. They were at play. At my feet below the cliff was a trickling stream of water that created a bog at its bottom in which hogs were wallowing, with only their noses out of the mud. They too were at play. Where do you go when you are at play? Down with the low and the vicious or up into the ethereal heights? It has been further discovered that the greatest dangers lurk where leisure time is not properly directed and safeguarded. In 1792 a prominent religious denomination in the United States expressed its great aversion to all forms of recreational activity in the following language: "The students shall be indulged with nothing which the world calls play. Let this rule be observed with the strictest nicety, for those who 72 RELIEF SOCIETY play when they are young will play when they are old." How satisfying it is to the Latterday Saints to know that they belong to a Church that even a hundred years ago took no such narrow view of this important subject. Second to the efforts put forth to provide for the religious education of its members is the provision which is made for the leisure time. The Prophet Joseph Smith thought it not a dishonorable thing to engage in play. It is reported that many times when he defeated an antagonist in a religious discussion he gave his opponent another chance to win by offering to wrestle, pull stakes, or engage in some other play activity. One minister so challenged was shocked to think that a prophet would engage in play. The hard struggles and the stern monotony of the pilgrimage across the plains were relieved by closing each day in song and play. If it were nothing else but to clear the sagebrush, bring out the fiddle and have a dance and a few songs as a diversion, it cheered the spirits of those who were in the midst of the toil. How difficult it would have been to have kept the people in these valleys, a thousand miles from civilization, contented and happy unless a theater had been built, a great organ provided, dance halls, gymnasiums and other opportunities supplied for the people to express themselves in natural God-given urges. Here is a Church that approves of the thrilling joys that come from expression of these urges and keeps the participant safe by carrying forward a program that has as its aim certain desirable definite objectives in the use of leisure time. Youth is so full of life and activity that work alone does not supply the outlet for all its energy. And ms MAGAZINE even if there were sufficient work to do, "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy." If work does not furnish the outlet for this energy, then play will. The proper use of this play period will lead to the formation of proper habits and the safeguarding of morals. Fatigue which normally follows healthful play is a good distraction from immoral tendencies. Most types of play are social and it is here that moral values and proper conduct are best developed. The group will not tolerate cheating or lying in competitive games and encouragement is given even in the face of defeat to try again to win. Good sportsmanship which can accept defeat cheerfully is developed. Temperate habits are established. The use of tobacco, alcohol, and other stimulants means failure to the athlete. Play assumes two aspects. One is recreation or re-creation and the other relaxation. In relaxation we emphasize rest and change, while in recreation we emphasize re-building. In relaxation we find release from tensions, strain, on brain centers or upon muscles that have been overworked in certain types of work. Here nature provides release in sleep, laughter. Play activities and rest. All these bring relaxation. When the body is used in excess of its power to repair itself by these natural means, irritability and inefficiency will naturally follow. Many a person who is unable to sleep and takes drugs for their" stimulating effect to help relax or recreate the body would find in the natural forms of play the relief they seek and they would not have the objectionable reaction that follows the use of stimulants. It has been found that the child in school can only give attention for a limited period and then after a short period of plav and relaxation THE PLACE OF RECREATION IN he is able to resume attention again. It would follow with all groups that after a strenuous period of mental concentration there should be a period of recreation. However, one's work is another's relaxation. The person who spends most of the day in brain work needs physical exercise, while those who engage in physical work need rest. Too many people are getting old early in life. Bent bodies from fixed toil and labor are not given the opportunity to relax and bring other muscles into play that would make for more rounded development. The Lord has been interested enough in the physical well-being of man to give some very definite laws with respect to the body. Surely He is interested in the production of a perfect physical specimen, and not only physical strength but grace and beauty of movement as well. Man is a social being. He cannot be happy and live alone, so that opportunities for groups to meet together, especially young folks in the mating period, should be provided for. The leaders of the Church recognize the desirability of having Latter-day Saints marry those of their own faith. Greater opportunity is found for forming desirable friendships in social activities than anywhere else. Parents can no longer select companions for their sons and daughters but they can help select a proper group where their children may form acquaintances. The flock can be kept clean, the wolves eliminated and standards maintained that will undoubtedly assist in the proper formation of desirable companionships. OUR LIVES 73 While the physical urge 13 strongest in youth there are urges that find joyous expression in those of older years. The dramatic urge which prompts one to relax, to forget one's self and play the part of another, all bring refreshment and culture. Responding to the linguistic urge develops the joy of perfect expression. It is important that each human being should have a period each day for rest, relaxation and change of activity. Every mother ought to have one hour each day free from the toil and the care of her home and her children. She would have a sweeter disposition and accomplish more if the tension could be lifted. Hence how fine it is that she can go to a Relief Society meeting, even if she has to take her little children with her. The sisters could take charge in turns of groups of children, thus relieving the mother so that she can relax and change her course of thought and find some ot tthe relief that each individual ought to have from the taxing cares of daily routine life. There is many a mother in an insane asylum today because she had no relief from the pressure that was upon her. Having no safety valve to relax, there was an explosion and she became abnormal. So that we are learning that it is just as important to have a definite program for the use of leisure time as it is to have a definite program for work if one would fully enjoy life. Surely that is the purpose of man's being here. Christ came to bring life and that more abundantly. "Man is that he might have joy." A Leisure Time Program By Clarissa A. Beesley "There never was a day in the history of America when pareiits needed to be more concerned about the what and when and how of the youth of the hour. There never was a time, young people within my hearing, when youth had so much out of which to build greatness as now, and in the same way, there never was a time when the youth had so much of which to create rapid destruction and wreckage and ruin as now." "Build, my young friends, four square. Through it you may either make or eternity, but watch the leisure time. Break for eternity.""* REMENDOUSLY significant | words?*'through it (leisure time) you may make or break for eternity!" And who will doubt their truth who gives this problem thoughtful attention? There is a vital moment in every day?the moment when leisure hours begin. At that moment each individual must face the question? what use shall I make of the gift of time that is mine? He may scarcely be conscious of the question but it is asked nevertheless and answered by him in the hours that follow. And the sum total of those answers determines whether he is "making" or "breaking" for eternity. With the anticipated modifications in the weekly calendar which will release more and more time from the working program, the problem takes on a yet more serious aspect for both youth and adults. If the tension of how to make a living is relieved then how to live becomes all important. When people shall have learned how to use their leisure so as to secure the fullest values, a golden age will have come. The present economic situation, in which many find themselves with unemployed time on their hands, _ *It is believed that this quotation is from Lorado Taft, American Sculptor. *k OOK OO Build now and build for presents an immediate problem of deep concern. Great as the distress may be through loss of means to supply physical needs, even more grave may be the results through the reckless use of idle hours. On the other hand those free hours may be turned into such rich opportunities for cultural and_ spiritual growth as to make the experience a real blessing. It is to help solve these problems, to guide our youth to an intelligent use of leisure hours, to help create a morale in the Church which shall be invincible to any untoward circumstance which may arise, to bring joyous activity into the community life of the people, in short, to contribute to the building of Latterday Saints through recreation, that the M. I. A. Stands pledged. T the close of the year 1922 the * Presidency of the Church in a meeting with the heads of the general auxiliary organizations reviewed the assignments previously made to them and stressed the distinguishing features of each. In regard to the Mutual Improvement Associations, it was pointed out that their objectives were, as President Brigham Young had indicated, "to provide the means by which the doctrines of the gospel could be more effectively taught to young men and women, A LEISURE TIME PROGRAM 75 that testimony of the truth of these doctrines and the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith might be gained, and also that the literary tastes of the young might be developed and their social activities brought under better management and control." Later, in May, 1928, the Mutual Improvement Associations were assigned the exclusive conduct of recreational activities for all groups above the age of the Primary Association with the exception of those which organizations might wish to carry on for their own membership. This meant that the other auxiliaries and the people generally would rally to the M. I. A. For all ward recreational activities, the other groups being relieved from this responsibility in order to follow other lines of endeavor. As indicated above the assignment was not entirely new. For from the beginning the M. I. A. Had given much attention to recreation. It had striven to raise the standards of conduct at all entertainments, dancing parties, and outdoor recreational events. Furthermore, its religious studies had always been interspersed with many of the cultural activities. But now, when these organizations were charged anew with the responsibility of supervising the leisure time, not only of their own membership but of the Church as a whole, the General Boards began even more seriously than before to study the subject. Recreation came to mean far more than it had hitherto meant. The vision grew of the possibilities within this field. The officers sensed that such words as "amusement" and "entertainment" connote but a small part of recreation; that a leisure time program must have as its objective the enrichment of life both for young and old; it must provide opportunities for expression of every worthy instinct and urge; it must bring people together in a sympathetic, brotherly and sisterly relationship; it must cultivate appreciation of all that is beautiful in nature, art, literature, music and religion; it must banish evil by filling the mind and heart with good. Indeed, the Prophet Joseph Smith must have had in mind a complete leisure time program when he voiced the latter part of the thirteenth article of faith?''if there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." Since 1923, therefore, the program of the Mutual Improvement Associations has been shaping itself more and more to meet this special charge. In every department opportunities are provided for development and expression of talent. Scouting and Bee-Hive work for the youngest groups are essentially active rather than theoretical. They both provide a well nigh perfect program for leisure time, appealing as they do to the natural interests of early adolescence and embodying the highest ideals of character. The Junior girls and their companion age group of young men, the Vanguards, are led through delightful discussions, travelogues, dramatizations, musical programs, and projects. The project for the Vanguards for 1930-31, the marking of historic places, has furnished abundant development for the highest emotions of patriotism and loyalty to heroes of the past; while that of the Junior Girlsx?"My Story?Lest I Forget" has brought them into _touch with the story of their own family life and given them a keener appreciation of what the Gospel message has meant in the lives of cheir immediate forefathers. The rose being their symbol, these young girls have made it their especial care 76 URI se se to beautify our places of worship with flowers and because of their own loveliness and sweetness they have been called the "bouquet" of the organization. One of the outstanding groups of the M. 1. A. Is that of the M Men? Gleaners. These young men and women are in the first flush of manhood and womanhood and must have opportunity for expression of their versatile powers. Their instincts for leadership, their desires for social companionship and to appear well in social relationships are encouraged and opportunity given for their development. The M Men have done much to promote high standards of citizenship and clean physical activities, while the Gleaners, with Ruth of old as an ideal, have gleaned in many fields. Happy home life, the cultivation of special gifts or talents have furnished themes for projects, the most pretentious of which has been "T will Gather Treasures of Truth." This stimulating endeavor has led thousands of Gleaners to delve into the records of the past, into old albums, into family treasure chests; to make collections of their own literary or artistic efforts; and to recount faithstirring incidents of days that are gone. Many lovely Treasures of Truth books have been the result. Nor is adult education and recreation neglected. In line with the general impetus given to this phase of educational work, the older people of the Church have found in the M. I. A. A rare opportunity for the pursuit of mentally stimulating subjects, for the promotion of projects of intense interest, for the cultivation of hobbies, for relaxation which helps to keep them ever in the ranks of the youthful. That no one grows old in the M. I. A. Is coming to be almost an axiom. SOCIETY MAGAZINE In addition to these special department or age group features, a wonderful program of general culture and recreation has been developed in which all may participate. The dance, the drama, speech, music?these and kindred arts all have a place on the regular program. If one had magic boots or, equally thrilling, if one could avail himself of the modern giant of the air and could visit on a Tuesday evening one Latter-day Saint community after another, he would see happy groups of boys and girls, men and women wending their way to the ward chapel and recreation center for joyous participation in these fascinating pastimes. The activities, covering months of effort, culminate in each local association in the Ward Honor Day, the most jubilant event of the season, when those attaining standards of excellence are recognized and from their number representatives are selected to participate in a larger event?the Stake Honor Day. Here again recognition is given to the wards who have achieved and further selections are made of representatives to take part in a still larger unit?the district or division. [inally, those who have successfully passed through these stages of preparation and selection are heard from at the climactic event of the year?the annual June Conference. Thus is carried forward a system of mass activity and con-' tests unsurpassed in any other community in the land, and this, under direction of the General Boards and with the training available through special institutes and field service, by a great army of volunteer leaders. Other features which fit into the recreational program are the Fathers and Sons' outings and the Mothers and Daughters' days. These have come to be glorious events of A LEISURE TIME PROGRAM 77 the summer months, bringing about the happy, close companionship of these groups. Still others are the summer camps established for both boys and girls. Eleven delightful Y. L. M. I. A. Camps have been built to which thousands of girls go each summer for rest, play and contact with nature. In the great outof-doors they learn to appreciate the handiwork of God and through that appreciation come to have greater faith in him and a deener sense of the spiritual values of life. All in all the M. J. A. Offers a leisure time program based on sound psychological principles, broad in its scope, lofty in its ideals. These ideals are symbolized in the colors of the organization, Green and Gold ?Green denoting youth, happy. Growing, vibrant youth, and Gold indicating the glorious destiny that awaits the youth of Zion. Grandmother's Quilts By Alice M. Snock This poem received third honorable mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest Grandmother sits in her old armchair, Her needle flies to and fro, As she pieces the queer little scraps of cloth, And dreams of the long ago. Of intricate pattern like tapestries rare Are the quilts that Grandmother makes; 'With infinite patience she matches and plans And countless fine stitches she takes. And I love to hear the stories she tells About the queer little blocks, As she sits in her chair by the window there With the sun on her silvery locks. "This," she says with a tender smile, "Is a piece of my wedding gown? Not grand enough for the girls of today, But I was the belle of the town." "And this was our great aunt Sarah's dress, She wore it the day that she died, Killed by a fall from her horse, poor girl." Grandmother shook her head sadly and sighed. "That blue was the dress of my dearest friend, The sweetest girl in the town, Her hair was golden and curly, Her eyes matched the blue of her gown." "Here is your Ma's first party dress? How she primped before the glass? It had wide flounces and pale blue bows, Oh, she was a bonnie lass." So Grandmother sits and pieces her quilts, Her needle flies to and fro, And I love to hear the stories she tells Of the people of long ago. The Mother and the Wife of George Washington By Fay Ollerton Mary BaLL WASHINGTON ANY of the stories told M about Mary Ball Washington are as mythical as are those told about her son. One known fact about her birth and family is that her first American ancestor, Colonel William Ball came to Virginia in 1650 and that he belonged to the landed gentry of England. Mary Ball was born in 1708. From her father she inherited 400 acres of land in Epping Forest, a hunting park. Later because of her charm and good looks, she was known as the Rose of Epping Forest.: Girls in her day had few educational advantages. However, she was taught all the arts of a gentlewoman of her time?to dance the minuet and curtsey, to know the catechism, to embroider, paint, and sew a fine seam, to be a fine horsewoman, and to handle her slaves. When she was but three years old her father died and ten years later her mother. At eighteen, while she was not rich, she was well endowed, and she had become so beautiful that she had the additional title of "The Belle of the Northern Neck." It is not known just how she met Augustine Washington, but it is thought that it was in England, where she was visiting when she was twenty-two years of age and her *To Teachers: The Washington Bicentennial commission at Washington, D. C. Has prepared a number of pamphlets which are supplied free to all organizations interested in Washington programs. From these pamphlets the material relating to Washington's mother and wife. Given in this article has been selected. Family and friends were fearing that she would remain a spinster in spite of her many suitors. Captain Augustine Washington was an affable widower from Virginia, who came to England to place his boys in the Appleby school. Mary and Augustine were married soon after they met and went to live at Bridges Creek. She was described at this time as being "at home on her own dapple gray pacing through roads and lanes in an 'English habit of scarlet cloth, long and flowing as to skirt and tightly fitted as tto bodice. 'Her hat was of beaver and black with a long and handsome plume, and she was a handsome and distinguished figure." Bridges Creek was a lovely spot on the Potomac River. Arriving at her home, Mary found a comfortable commodious house with a staff of slaves to direct. In making her inventory she came across a copy of Matthew Hale's "Contemplations, Moral and Divine." Across the fly leaf was written "Jane Washington." Underneath it Mary wrote "and Mary Washington." This book was put among her treasures and her children were trained in its precepts. It was at Bridges Creek that George Washington was born on February 22, 1732. Betty was born in 1733, and afitter her three sons and two daughters, the last of whom lived only fourteen months. When George was eleven years old his father died. At this time the family was living on a farm opposite the Rappahannock, opposite Fredericksburg. Mary Ball Washington was much concerned in the MOTHER AND WIFE OF education of ther children. A white man of education, a bond-servant, had 'been brought from England and he gave the children their first real schooling. It was the habit of Mrs. Washington to rise at dawn and to give the first hour of the day to silent thought and prayer. Later, "at breakfast, George was usually called on to conduct family prayers. George Washington Parke Custis. Washington's step-grandson who knew her when she was older wrote of her: 'The home of Mrs. Washington, of which she was always mistress, was the pattern of order. There the levity and indulgence common to youth was tempered by a deference and a well regulated restraint, which, while it neither suppressed nor condemned any rational enjoyment usual in the spring of life, prescribed those enjoyments within the bounds of moderation and propriety. Thus the chief was taught the duty of obedience, which prepared him to command. The matron held in reserve an authority, which never departed from her; not even when her son had become the most illustrious of men. It seemed to say, 'I am your mother, the being who gave you life, the guide who directed your steps when they needed the guidance of age and wisdom.' "A lady of high breeding and high courage, exactly the type of woman one would expect the mother of the First President to be?plain, dignified, sincere, strong in the possession of the homely and home-like virtues, absolutely devoid of vanity and ostentation without frivolity of feminine captiousness, reticent to a degree and so free from self-consciousness, she was a thoroughbred lady in her unpretentious homespun. And as much at ease as though it were the purple and ermine of royalty."' GEORGE WASHINGTON 79 Washington inherited not only his mother's features but her strong self-reliance, her courage, her executive ability and her supreme power of awing and governing others. So strong was the influence of her training that all of her children respected her decisions and obeyed her commands. When her son was commander of the Revolutionary forces she is supposed to have said: "George is apt to succeed in anything he undertakes. He was always a good boy." A few years later he came to Fredericksburg to see her, the victor of the (Revolution. She talked with him of many things but not one word did she say of his service to his country. It was as if she took that for granted. That night there was a great ball and she was sent a special invitation. She answered that her dancing days were over, but that she would be happy to come. It was a great and never to-be-forgotten scene, with gay belles, handsome matrons, and gallant men. Rich laces and jewels, laid away for years, were brought forth, likewise brocades, satins, and velvets saved from earlier times. Mrs. W ashington in her still handsome black brocade with its soft lace at the neck and wrists, entered on the arm of her distinguished son. The foreign officers crowded around her, anxious to see the mother of the chief. One of them exclaimed: "If such are the matrons of America. She may well boast of her illustrious sons!'' About three years later the Marquis de Lafayette. In 1784, went to Fredericksburg expressly to pay his respects to her. He found her working in her garden. She greeted him without embarrassment and_ said: "I can make you welcome to my -poor home without the parade of changing my dress," Before he left RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ferris GEORGE AND MARTHA WASHINGTON AT VALLEY FORGE she served him spiced gingerbread and home made wine in the garden. Washington wanted his mother to live with him, but felt it was best for her not to do so. His house was always filled with visitors, many of them distinguished, and she would either had to have been continually on parade?a hard thing for one of her years?or ta have heen MOTHER AND WIFE OF GEORGE in retirement in her son's home-?a thing he could not have. She died on August 25, 1789, at the age of 81. To her Washington paid the supreme tribute. "All that I am I owe to my mother." Martha Custis WASHINGTON. WIDOW MARTHA DANDRIDGE CUSTIS was considered to be the wealthiest woman in the Virginia colony. Prior to her marriage she resided at the White House, New 'Kent County with her two small children, Jack and Martha, or Patsey. Her courtship was a brief and romantic one. She and Washington met at the mansion of a friend; it was love at first sight. Indeed, they might have been married very soon, but military duties intervened. Some months later on January 6, 1759, the wedding took place. A society reporter of the times reported it: "They came in bridal state, coach-andfour and the train of wedding guests.. The bride was attired in heavy brocade silk, interwoven with silk thread; embroidered satin petticoat, high heeled satin shoes, with buckles of brilliants, point lace and ruffles. The bridegroom appeared in a citizen's dress of blue cloth... His shoe and knee buckles were of gold. His hair was powdered and at his side hung a dress sword." Since the bride and groom were of equal social rank, both wealthy, and both endowed with many social graces and friends, Martha had no hesitancy in selecting her home as the scene of the honeymoon. They were not to remain in private life long, for the Assembly was opening at Williamsburg and Washington was a member. This time they were not separated, for Martha had a home, "The House of the Six Chimneys" in Williamsburg where they lived for a season. Afterwards they were to be separated many times. WhenWASHINGTON 81 ever it was possible for her to go? when her children could be left or taken according to the conditions and Washington was in a position to establish quarters for his wife? she accompanied him. She was a natural home maker, intelligent, kind, gracious, but with much of the reserve and dignity of Mary Ball. From the beginning she and Washington were happy. Though they had no children of their own, he loved her two as fondly as if he had been their father and when young Patsey died, he was heartbroken and for a long time set aside important engagements that he might remain at Mount Vernon to comfort his wife. The days at Williamsburg were among the gayest of their lives. There was hunting, racing, and dancing, and the Washingtons were prime favorites everywhere. Soon, however, Martha settled down to the routine of everyday life. The year following her marriage she came to Mount Vernon, newly fitted for the bride. Her duties 'were heavy. For one thing her husband was a man of action, and as such had a hearty appetite. When he came in from the fields or from riding, she was waiting for him with his favorite refreshments?sugar cakes, thin biscuits, and hot mulled chocolate. Then there were the slaves to be managed, her two young children to whom she was devoted, and the many guests that made of Mount ernon a kind of glorified tavern. Even the attic was remade to accommodate the overflow. Most of the food for this great establishment was raised on the plantation, -and the desserts of which there were many, were made in the kitchen. Martha Washington's table was never without pies, puddings, jellies, whips, floating islands, sweetmeats, 82 RELIEF light bread, beaten biscuits, and batter cakes. For fifteen years the Washingtons lived happily at Mount Vernon. They lived, as Washington willed it, with great style and regularity. Breakfast was served at 7 o'clock, dinner at 3, tea at 7, and supper at 9. The latter meal was seldom varied. Martha and her guests sat down to fruit and cream, cake and wine, and at ten o'clock they retired, each person with a lighted candle. A friend who visited at Mount Vernon has left a pen picture of its mistress: "The dear little woman was busy from morning until night with domestic duties, and she gave us much time in conversation and afforded us entertainment. When we. Sat off in the morning she stood at the door and cheered us with good words." It was from this life with its beautiful formality, its coach and four, its white pillared mansion, its great gardens with a box hedge imported from England, its river view, and its charming people that a letter came one day from the absent master: "My dearest, I am now set down to write you on a subject, which fills me with inexpressible concern.... It has been determined in Congress that the whole Army raised for the defense of the American cause shall be under my care.... I shall feel no pain from the toil or the danger of the campaign, my unhappiness will flow from the uneasiness I know you will feel from being alone. I therefore beg you will summon your fortitude, and pass the time as agreeably as possible."
Martha set about to pass the time. Expenditures were cut down. They had to be, for there were many times when Washington, himself, had little money, and Martha was always ready to sacrifice. She wore on many occasions instead of brocade, cotton dresses striped with silk ravelings woven in her own loom. No more were elaborate meals served at Mount Vernon. There were days when Martha stood in readiness to flee, her china packed, her trunks ready to go. Friends often begged her to go, but she was determined to stay. Once rumors came that the British were to burn Mount Vernon and she went away overnight. About half the time that Washington was in military quarters during the Revolution, Martha was with him, living sometimes in simple luxury, and other times in cabins almost as desolate as those occupied by the soldiers. A story is told of how she came to spend an unusually cold winter with her husband. They were to live in one of the two frame houses in the settlement and some soldiers were commissioned to make a room in the upper story for Martha. When the soldiers started to work, Martha said: "Now young men, I care nothing for comfort here; I should like you to fit me with a buffet on one side of the room and some shelves and a place for hanging things on the other." When the work was finished, she told them that it was worthy of master workmen. To the soldiers she was known as "Lady Washington" and she was a favorite with enlisted men and officers. During the dreadful winter at Valley Forge she was with her husband. The Potts home was the center of attraction that winter and Martha was often seen knitting socks, patching garments, and making shirts for the half-clad soldiers.
The years following are too long and varied to be included. Martha was again mistress of Mount Vernon. Then came years of being the "First Lady," when she made traditions by which "First Ladies" will perhaps always be measured. It was her pleasure to witness the second inauguration of her husband. This time, instead of citizen's clothes, he wore a full suit of blue velvet with diamond knee buckles. A school boy who was standing before the Hall of Congress in Philadelphia wrote: "I stood before the Hall of Congress when the carriage of the President drove up. It was a white coach or rather of light cream color, painted on the panels with groups representing the four seasons."
Few women have had more colorful lives than Martha Washington. She knew deep sorrow?the death of her first husband and her two children, the tribulations of a country at war?but she knew much pleasure and joy. For eight years she was First Lady of the Land, and for forty years she lived happily with one of the great men of all time. After the years of the presidency she was permitted to go back to the beautiful plantation by the Potomac, where she was again mistress of the glorified tavern.
After Washington died, life at Mount Vernon was quiet indeed. Few guests came to disturb her sorrow. The room in which he died was closed, and she retired to an upper chamber where she could watch the spot where her husband was buried, close to the blue Potomac. Just before she died she destroyed almost her entire correspondence with George Washington. She did this, she said, to prove her undying love for him. These letters were sacred to her, and she did not wish to share them with other people.
WASHINGTON'S HOME
New Day, Lilting song, Day comes along Sunshine bright, After the night, In dewy fragrance gay;
Where peace and rest Held sway. Wonder born With each new morn. What will it bring today!
The Doctor Passes By
By Max Million
YOUNG Doctor Oniel hung up the receiver. He looked sick. "Eve," he said, "I know now why Doctor Rankin insisted on my taking that Sheldon confinement case last night and this school job of vaccination today."
The girl addressed looked up from the child's arm she was rubbing with alcohol. It was characteristic of her that she did not ask why. In the four years that she had been engaged to Robert Oniel and even in the long years of childhood friendship before she had learned that such questions were unnecessary. Robert Oniel made no accusations until he himself was sure, but when he said to Eve "I know now" she knew that whatever had been troubling him was soon to be shared with her.
Eve Hawthorn had known for months, ever since Robert had come home from medical school in June to build up a practice in his own home town of Trunkton that he and his work were being subtly attacked by Doctor Rankin, a man who had come in from the coast while Robert was away at school. When the little arm had received its cargo of vaccine and the child had gone whimpering back to its waiting mother Doctor Oniel spoke again.
"State Medical examinations begin in Laramie tomorrow morning at nine o'clock." He watched a sudden pallor deepen in her face. Dear blessed Eve, she perceived the seriousness as well as he.
"But these?" She indicated the adjoining room filled with waiting women and children.
"Why, it's over. For review. Half of these Cedar Valley women have driven through twenty miles of mud in farm wagons, and against their wills, too."
"Don't I know it? That's part of Rankin's damned plan?to force them here when scarcely one in the whole lot believes in vaccination, and then have me leave in the middle of the job. Fine reputation it will give me. I'd never hope to get a case with those people and I've got to have some of the practice up here if I stay in the valley."
"But no sleep last night. No time for review. Half of these Cedar Valley women have driven through twenty miles of mud in farm wagons, and against their wills, too. It's criminal. Robert, isn't there some law that requires sufficient notice?"
"Rankin is safe there. There's time to make it if I leave right away."
"Say," broke in a gaunt woman from the doorway. "Can you poison my Sammy next? I've a sick baby home and I've got to be gettin' back."
Dr. Oniel gave Sammy an encouraging pat. "Eve, while I fix this youngster, will you call Mattsonville and find out what trains make connections with the through train to Laramie?"
She turned to him presently. "No. 10 leaves Mattsonville at seven-thirty. It gets into Pontiac at ten, waits three hours for the special. It leaves Pontiac at one o'clock tomorrow morning and reaches Laramie at seven."
Dr. Oniel looked at his watch. One hour back to Trunkton. A half hour's preparation. Another thirty minutes to reach Mattsonville. Just time if he left now. But wait?if he finished the vaccination job, two full hours at the very best. The hand with the innocent looking needle paused in midair.
"Eve, you say that special doesn't leave Pontiac till one?"
She nodded.
"We'll finish the job," he said, "then instead of taking No. 10 in Mattsonville, I'll drive my car into Pontiac and catch the through train there."
A faded little woman in an antiquated coat held out her hand to Dr. Oniel. "You do have a way with children. This girl cried all the way down here. Plumb frightened to death and now look at her. Doesn't even want to go. I'm going to bring her down to Trunkton next week and have you go over her. She's been having worm fits lately and powdered egg shells don't seem to help her none."
They were on their way back to Trunkton when Eve announced, "I'm going with you, Robert. I'll drive your car to Pontiac, perhaps you can doze. At any rate you will be relieved of the strain of driving that two hundred miles and I'll bring your car back in the morning."
Dr. Oniel bent swiftly and kissed her. "I don't know what I've done to deserve such love. You've waited a long time for me, Eve, but as soon as these exams are passed and I'm a full-fledged doctor so I won't have to worry about what Rankin is going to do to me next, we'll be married, debt or no debt, and I'm going to make up to you some of the things you have done for me."
Eve took the wheel. Dr. Oniel, legs stretched well out in front, head against the cushioned back, was conscious of a pleasant lethargy. No use trying to think about the coming examinations. He was tired?more tired than he thought. He watched Eve through half-closed eyes as the wind sprayed soft hair about her face. Wonderful girl! If it weren't for Rankin he and Eve would have been married by now. Why couldn't Rankin be white. There was plenty of practice for both. The bitterness of his position swept over him. Six years at medical school. Six years of starvation! Never a pair of rubbers. A secondhand overcoat to fight off the raw coldness of those Chicago winters. Then graduation and a year as interne at the Cook County Hospital, with hopes high for an immediate marriage with Eve.
"Dr. Rankin," she had written, "who has recently been made chairman of the State Board of Medical Examiners is going East to some convention he tells me, and may stop in Chicago. If he does he has promised to hunt you up."
He had come and Dr. Oniel had asked him about the examinations. "Nothing to worry about at all," he had answered. "I'm sure we can arrange to have them about the time you get home."
Dr. Rankin had arranged to have them just two days before Dr. Oniel could get there, but that was after the older doctor had found out that the younger man planned to come back to his home town to practice. How well planned had been Rankin's first move, that offer of a place in his own office which Robert felt he must refuse. He must make good on his own. From then on it had been a petty stream of persecutions. First there had been the complaint against him for practicing without a license, instigated, he found later by Rankin. Thanks to dear old Bunkers that situation had been met. He had allowed his name to be put on Dr. Oniel's office window and though he had practice in plenty in his own city of Mattsonville, he had driven the twenty miles to Trunkton each day and there cloaked with legality the services Dr. Oniel gave to the many town's people whose presence brought them to his office.
"This practice with the operating Dr. Bunkers gives me at the Mattsonville Hospital is muffling the growl of the wolf at the door," he had told Eve, "But it doesn't drown it out enough for me to ask you to listen in on it until those state exams have been met."
A week ago when he had asked Rankin about the examinations the doctor had told him that the Board couldn't possibly meet until March. "And then suddenly out of a blue sky he insists that I take this maternity case that looked like a lost gamble from the first moment, and I'm fool enough to do it and hang on those seventeen hours and bring the woman through, and my thinking maybe I'd misjudged the man all the while I was doing it. It's his having advertised the school vaccination job for today that proves he had the whole thing arranged?the low down cur. He's subtle all right. Wear me out, get me in bad with those Cedar Valley people, then rush me to the examinations without a chance for rest or review."
An angry roar of thunder brought Robert up with a start. Eve shot a swift glance at him. "I thought you were asleep. Looks like a bad storm brewing up Pontiac way. I hope it doesn't break before we get there."
"Eight-thirty," he said, "we ought to be there by eleven-thirty."
From the north fiery fingers of lightning shredded the sodden storm clouds. There was a smart patter of rain against the wind shield. Darkness was on them in one great swoop. Here and there in the distance a lone light of some dry farmer shone out like a drowsy star lost in the blackness.
"Better slow down around this curve, Eve. The roads are getting slippery."
As he spoke, a car coming toward them veered suddenly. It was too far away for them to hear any sound above the humming of their own motor, but they watched the drunken movements of its head lights for a brief moment before it disappeared. They hurried to the place. Eve brought the car to an abrupt stop. Dr. Oniel was out in an instant, his flash light cutting the darkness around them. A thin wail brought him running to the left side of the road. There a short dugway fell abruptly away to a five foot gully below. He peered over the edge. Eve was at his side. Together they climbed down the embankment. It took but a few seconds to locate the child. His head protruded from what had been the top of a coupe. A man lay face downward, his arms entangled in the steering wheel. He neither moved nor spoke. Hasty examination revealed no pulse.
"We'd better work with the child," he said. They strained their eyes along the roadway but there was no sign of a car. Dr. Oniel focused his flashlight to the right. "Good. There's a fence." With a mighty wrench he pulled an aspen pole loose and with it propped up the car sufficiently to untangle the limp figure of what seemed to be about a six-year-old boy. Eve held the flash light while Dr. Oniel ran deft hands over the little body. "There's a badly broken bone in the leg and plenty of internal injuries. We'll drive to the first farm house, fix up the child so we can carry him and rush him to the hospital in Pontiac."
Eve was at the wheel again. Dr. Oniel held the limp little figure in his arms. A mile farther on they came to a farm house. Eve's frantic knocking brought a woman to the door. Gray hair streamed over a faded kimono that covered her long sleeved nightdress. "Let us come in will you? There's been an accident. Fix a place where I can examine this child," said the doctor.
The woman fumbled with the lamp chimney, and moved three milk buckets from the kitchen table. "Put him here," she said. Swift moving fingers removed the clothing. The leg bone protruded through the skin. "Eve, we've got to have some splints. Take the flash light and see what you can find. And you," he turned to the woman, "call up the sheriff's office. Tell them there has been a man killed and a child seriously injured at that dugway a mile back. Have them send some one out to take charge of the body and look up the car number 700350 W. They can notify the hospital at Pontiac where I'll take the child."
As Eve tore a bed sheet for bandages she watched the weird shadows cast by the smoking lamp. Like some queer pagan rite the woman stood at the head of the child holding aloft the light while Dr. Oniel bent and turned first to the head then to the feet of the unconscious child. "There," he announced presently, "That will hold him till we get him to the hospital."
THE clock in the city hall was striking twelve when Eve turned the car up the avenue that led to Pontiac's little hospital. "Thank God you've still got time to get him into the hospital and catch your train."
They hurried into the building smelling of anesthetics, through a long hallway that led to the office. The room was empty but at Dr. Oniel's ring a weary looking nurse made her appearance. "There's no one here but the house doctor and me," she told him. "Dr. Green and Dr. Blackburn are out at Milford. There's been a serious mine accident out there?four or five killed that we know about."
The telephone at the girl's elbow jangled. "Yes, yes I'll tell him." She turned to Dr. Oniel. "It was the sheriff's office. They have found that the dead man is a Dr. Rankin's chauffeur and the child here is the doctor's son. The doctor lives in Trunkton but left Pontiac this afternoon for Laramie. They will get word to him as soon as possible."
So it was Dr. Rankin's son, that poor broken scrap of humanity whose life depended upon what he alone could do. Dr. Rankin who had badgered and hectored him at every turn. What a queer mistress Fate was!
"Eve," he said turning to the girl at his side, "here's where we stay. I've got to get started on this operation. It's the most critical job I've ever attempted but it's the only thing that offers the slightest hope. While the nurse fixes the operating room see if you can rustle me a cup of strong black coffee."
Immediately the operating room sprang into life. Shining nickel gleamed against the dead whiteness of walls and furniture. When Eve brought in the coffee he scarcely noticed her. Mechanically he drained the cup and pushed it aside. His face was drawn from fatigue but his jaw was set grimly. Suddenly he looked up. "Are you good for the two hardest hours of your life, Eve?"
She nodded. "When I saw Winters do this same operation in Chicago last year it took two of the best doctors in the hospital to help him, so you see what we're up against."
She smiled back at him. "I'm a whole night more rested than you, Robert. We'll see it through together."
An unearthly stillness settled over the room. The nurse had been called back to her own patients. Eve handled the gleaming instruments. Somewhere in the distance came the shrill whistle of the Laramie Special.
At three o'clock Dr. Green came in. "Finest piece of work I've ever seen. It's nothing less than a miracle. How you ever managed alone I can't see."
"I didn't." Dr. Oniel's face relaxed into a warm smile as he looked at Eve. "Without her," he told Dr. Green, "I never could have done it."
"Well, you both look half dead to me. Better go over to the hotel and get a little rest."
"Thanks, but I think I'll not leave till the child's father comes. He ought to be here soon. Eve won't you go?"
The girl shook her head. "We're doing this together, I thought."
Dr. Rankin arrived at daybreak. As he opened the door Dr. Oniel dropped the little wrist in which a feeble pulse was growing stronger. The older man hurried to the bedside. What he saw wiped out the agony in his ashen face. He turned to Dr. Oniel. For a moment the two men looked each other squarely in the eye. Then Dr. Rankin put out his hand. "Forgive me," he said in a voice thick with emotion. "I've been a dirty cur."
"It's all right," answered Dr. Oniel quietly extending his own hand.
"A lot has happened in the last twelve hours," Dr. Oniel said later as almost asleep he piloted Eve into the hotel elevator, and then "What do you say, Sweetheart. If we don't wait for the exams after all?get married tonight before we go back?"
Eve's eyes were already half closed. "All right Robert dear. But we must get some sleep first."
Then she smiled drowsily. "We don't want to go into this thing with our eyes shut."
PLAY DON'T settle down. To the chair in which you sit. If you have never been young. You have missed it.
How old are you?not by the measure of years, but by the measure of play? If you have not experienced the joy of playing the game of life, you have never been young. Years.
The spirit of play is the spirit of youth?activity, imagination, romance. It is the breath of joy in childhood days, it is the elixir of youth in after years.
Most activity becomes a game to the child. Mother may be too busy to be actually playing the game, but she may be such an interested onlooker that she becomes a partner in the fun. Understanding and interest,?soul companionship which knows no age.
Water dashing over rocks in the sunlight purifies itself. Don't live the lives of others in books, and limit your own adventures to the chair in which you sit.
More character habits are formed through play than through sermons. Partners in fun, mean partners in character building.?Rachel G. Taylor.
What Christian Parents Can Teach Their Children
Address Delivered at Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1931
By Newell W. Edson Educational Director?American Social Hygiene Association
IF one looks into the history of the church from the earliest times about which we know anything concerning organized religion, one is struck with the fact that the church has always been interested in the family. Any study of the church during the Middle Ages, the Dark Ages, for example, indicates the fact that the church was the bulwark of the family during these difficult and trying times. The church is especially interested in the family at the present time.
It seems to me very fitting that I have chosen this subject this morning, the Inter-relationship of the Church and Christian Parents with Family Life, and what we, as Christian parents, can teach our children regarding family life.
It is astonishing that only recently have we begun to regard, in any degree, the importance of family life. We have long taken it for granted, along with the well known provisions which make for the future of the child, yet the family, until the child can look out for his own food, and for his own shelter, and for his own protection, and for his own inspiration, has been the cradle of inspiration and opportunity for his self expression.
We are just beginning to realize, with regard to child study, how children have come to accept, in the early years, family standards and family tastes, and family vocabulary and family emotional responses. Now modern child study indicates that the child is going through a long and a difficult process, which the family itself is responsible for. The school has recognized that for some time, but has not been particularly concerned about it, and I believe it has fallen to modern parent education to make us appreciate just what the family is doing to the young child by way of setting its stamp upon the child.
I had a young father come to me and say, "Mr. Edson, I did not appreciate what it meant to have a child in my home until this youngster, at two or three, came to me, climbed upon my knee, and I began to realize that he was talking and acting, and I believe, thinking, the way I talk and act and think."
When we realize the parental unpreparedness, and the inadequacy of parents to set their stamp on their children, we begin to appreciate the need for this new development of parent education. When we realize what divorce, and what drifting homes do to children, how they fill the lives of children with disappointment and uncertainty, frequently making the children themselves drift, again we begin to comprehend what the home means to the child.
I think, if we are perfectly honest with ourselves, and sense what the home is doing to the child we will begin to appreciate the fact that most of us, as parents, are utterly inadequate for this job of parenthood. It is a tremendously difficult thing to acquire a profession while one is on the job in that profession itself.
The usual family education of the child is approached much like this. Here is the family group ministering to the comforts of the child. In the earliest years that group is measured from the child's point of view to the extent that the members help the child. Mother comes in for a large share of understanding, and I suppose the mother influence and the mother ideals are the earliest things that come to the child, and along with the mother influence and mother ministrations comes affection as a natural instinct. That means from the earliest years, the early days, if you please, the child gets a taste and even a hunger for affection along with his home experiences.
We find many of our boys and girls today who confess that they have a desire to pet in their relationship together, and will bring up petting experiences as one of the things that they want to discuss in a boy-girl relationship group. I have yet to talk with a group of boys or girls who do not care to bring up the matter of petting. It is an emotional experience in life, and yet they are not at all sure that it is the kind of procedure they want. Don't you see how it goes counter to their experiences in the association from the earliest years of intimacy and affection, and here they are showing affection to a person that they cannot be intimate with, a boy whom they do not know, or a girl whom they are a stranger to. I believe there is a place at which we can begin to discuss the conduct of boys and girls in some of their relationships today.
Along with these experiences that the child has in the home, the child gets father-mother experiences, father-children and mother-children experiences, and gradually the child begins to develop these relationships which build up, quite unconsciously in this young child responses that are the real foundation of his family life later on.
The child has his curiosities answered or rebuffed. Among these curiosities is life origin. My boy at four had a perfect mania for questions about where things came from: where did iron, copper and babies (all the same to him) come from. I had an experience with copper. I had lived in a town where there is a copper smelter, and so I started and told him that the copper comes from rock; they dig the rock from the ground, and they put it on to cars and took it to the mill and crushed it. I gave simple sentences and ideas. I did not get into the smelter before he was lost, and was on to something else.
A mother told me (and she was a rather cultured mother) that she had long faced the idea of telling her child about the story of life origin. She thought it was most important that her child should start right, and therefore when the child was about two years old, the mother commenced to delve into nature study, and apparently she did a very fine job for about two and a half years, so that when her child was four and a half, and asked her where babies came from, the mother, according to her story, took the child on her lap and started in with the embryo, and went through the reproduction in the plants, fishes and birds, then in mammals and then in humans. She said it took her about an hour and a half, and she apparently did a very effective job, because the child, aside from looking astounded asked no more questions until she was seven, and then she said to her mother one day, "Was I born with feathers on?"
I congratulate that mother that she had succeeded in getting her child to the feather stage. Interesting, isn't it, what we use to hide our own emotional response. If we are honest with ourselves, and know anything about children, we know that they have no emotional responses, with regard to where babies come from, or father-mother relationships, or in regard to sex conduct in or out of the home, except as we older people set these emotional responses. If we are ashamed, or afraid, or if we are emotionally disturbed, our youngsters have like feelings. That means then that along with the vocabulary we are teaching emotions, and that we are setting the stamp of our emotions on the child as well as the stamp of our conduct on the child from the earliest years.
The child learns in the home that sex is a factor, a perfectly normal part of family life, a bond that holds mates together, a part of the family activity. He learns the fineness of the relationship between father and mother, and what the child means to the family. These things gradually seep into the child's mind, and make the background of his understanding of sex conduct. Then he gets out into the backyard and the street, and there sex is vulgar and nasty, and he goes absolutely counter to the home response. If he is a usual child he comes back to the family, and says in fact, "What about this?" There comes the first family test.
Now I am not blaming parents for their emotional up-bringing. We men who have had the street tradition or the street effect of sex education do not want it, not any one of us went out to seek the vulgarity of the street, not one of us wanted anything except the finest of interpretations, but because it has been the tradition for so long to allow this particular thing to live on, we men have been the victims of that type of education. On the part of men I protest. I see no reason why men should be allowed to have the street type of education in respect to relationships that mean more to us in character building than any other human relationships we have. And the tragedy of it is that these same men who have had this type of training just because you and I are afraid to meet this situation, are the men who marry your daughters, with the finest of training and spiritual ideals with regard to the family, and we are going to leave unhappiness to our sons and daughters when they in turn try to do a better job of home-making than you and I have done.
I am not surprised that our boys and girls are rising up in revolt. They have outgrown their childhood homes, and it is absolutely necessary that they should. They must be allowed to grow up; they must be allowed to assert their independence, even in sex conduct, because we have not definitely given them the ideals of the home and of the family, and what they mean to individuals and to the child, and yet these boys and girls, wise, scientifically minded, facing facts are more afraid of sex and sex conduct than they are of anything else because it is part of their up-bringing. They are getting their interpretation of sex, from the movies, from the magazines, from the front page of the newspaper, and from the exceptional conditions that are going on in our community. They want better homes than we. They come to me frequently and say, "Mr. Edson, if I have got to mess up marriage the way my parents, and the neighbors have, then I don't want anything to do with it." Some of our girls are considering whether they should marry or not. The old idea that the only vocation for a girl was marriage has gone, and with their economic independence, with their striving for sex equality, they are facing a totally different situation. Marriage is not a matter of economic support or social position any longer. Marriage becomes for the modern boy or girl an opportunity for self expression. These youngsters, brought up with the best of training that we can give them, are looking forward to a finer type of home partnership than you or I ever thought of. They are focusing their ideals on the home, and are saying "We must do a better job of home-making than you have done, now give us the best of your human experience."
A boy said to me, "Why in the world is it that we have all the wrong interpretation of sex, why can't they give us some decent stuff?" and I think he expresses the feeling in the minds of a good many boys and girls. They feel the inadequacy of present homes, and our present sexual codes. Of course sexual codes must change along with our other codes, and because we are not helping them to make sound sex codes or sound sex conduct, they make their own. Do you appreciate the fact that you and I have been brought up in a generation where we just could not talk about sex? Not so our youngsters. They are talking and thinking about sex as frankly as anything else, and so far as I can discover, as wholesomely. They want a family life that is a far more real thing than you or I have been able to have, because we did not know how to do any better.
The attitude and ideals and standards that they are picking up now, are the things that they will carry over into their home partnership. We, along with a good many feel that love governs the whole situation, and because they no longer depend on the idea of the family for economic support, they are looking forward to home partnerships in which love, freedom, and happiness are the important factors, and they do not know what love or freedom or happiness are. I do not believe that you and I as parents, have begun to analyze these things. When I talk to groups of parents about love, and the various love experiences that the child goes through before he gets to the stage where he does what we call "fall in love" (I have always wondered where the fall came), these parents are perfectly astonished, and yet you go into the history of any child, and you begin to realize that he has had many kinds of love experiences which have gradually brought him to an understanding of love, and to hunger for a certain kind of love. That is the thing that he carries into his mate relationship.
Isn't it obvious that nothing but the best of our human experiences in this situation, nothing but the finest interpretation we can give of the family is going to satisfy these boys and girls. Monogamy is probably the oldest human experience that we have had, the oldest human relationship. We have tested every other kind of human relationship, and we go back to monogamy as the most suitable human experience, and yet what have you and I done to attempt to sell monogamy to our boys and girls?
What can we do about it? I believe there are some rather definite things that you and I, as parents without any special training, but with a fine sympathetic attitude realizing that our boys and girls need help, can do. I want to give you some of these things this morning.
