[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 48 | Home | Our Little Nest Egg Helen | M. Peterson]
little nest egg" was to save one penny at a time. It was during the depression days. Father's income was very meager. Every cent he earned was desperately needed to buy necessities for everyday living; yet mother insisted we must save something for a rainy day. A day when an emergency might 48 arise and we would need available cash to meet the situation. So it was that we were encouraged to eke out a penny, a nickle, or a dime, whenever we could, and store it away in a little tin cup. Mother let us children take turns dropping coins into the little tin cup. We kept track of the money. Pennies were exchanged for dimes; dimes were exchanged for dollars. Slowly, but eventually, dollar bills turned into fives. When emergencies arose—and they did as they do in all households—the money saved came in very handy. Like the time Reggie fell and skinned his knee coming home from school. Normally, Mom would clean the injured skin—in this case the knee —with alcohol, put on a sterile dressing, and the wound would heal with no complications. But Reggie's knee didn't heal. Infection set in. The doctor bill, plus medications, came to over sixty dollars, and we were all glad that our nest egg had enough money to meet the obligation. Mostly the unexpected emergencies which arose were illnesses of some kind, but there were times when situations arose which called for a family council to decide whether or not the situation was important enough to be considered an emergency, and merited taking money from "our little nest egg'' to meet the expenses. I remember the day Julie came home and said, 'Mom, I won first in the 'Declam Contest' today, and I'm eligible to enter the regional contest.'"' There was no dissent among the family to take needed cash from the tin cup to pay for Julie's lunch and bus fare, for the contest was held! In a hearby city and didn't cost much. And when Julie won the regional and was eligible to enter the district contest seventy miles distant, all agreed that the few dollars needed to cover expenses could be taken from "'the nest egg." When Julie came. Home from the district contest, wearing the OUR LITTLE NEST EGG blue ribbon, and stating that now she' was eligible for the state contest, we were all very proud of her, indeed. Although the state contest was being held 300 miles away, Julie's expenses were quite nominal, for contestants were given a special rate for transportation and lodging. Now, there was no question of where the money was coming from to send Julie to that state contest. This was an emergency—and we had saved toward it. Two days before the planned departure for the state contest, Julie came home from school in tears. She had heard that all the other contestants were being accompanied by their mothers. That was the first time our "little nest egg'' was emptied to meet an emergency other than sickness. When Mother and Julie returned from the state contest, and Julie had won first in the declaration contest, we were all very proud that we, in a small way, had been a part of it. Many times, over the years, our coffer was emptied, and temporarily our feeling of security would wane, but always we started right over again saving our pennies so that we'd have a "'little nest egg"? To meet an emergency which might arise.