[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 2 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]
asient Colo | must write to thank you and tell you how thrilled | was to open the cover of my November Magazine and see our beautiful Mount McCaleb of the Lost River Mountains as the frontispiece. Our little town of Mackay rests at the foot of this lovely peak, and the mountain stands as a sentinel over our valley. The mountain is also my favorite view from my kitchen window. All of the Magazines are lovely and such an inspiration to all who read them. Leona B. Anderson Mackay, Idaho The wonderful Relief Society Magazine has been coming to our home for five years, and the teachings, both in love and spirituality, have helped tremendously in building our marriage and home. My husband has been attending school since we were married, and living on the kind of budget students live on, the Magazine has helped me greatly in figuring shortcuts, inexpensive food items, and sewing ideas, not to mention the uplift | receive from the Magazine when | need encouragement. Mrs. Marsha Ball Urbana, Illinois | am only twenty years old and single, but subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine. | think the Magazines would help the young women, for they could understand the appeal to the heart and to the personal being. They could learn of their roles as tomorrow's leaders of the women of the Church. Ailien Winn Smithfield, Utah | do love The Relief Society Magazine—the greatest of all magazines for women. Without it | would be lost. It gives me great inspiration each time | pick it up. It makes one feel close to the Heavenly Father. Its beauty, both inside and out, is beyond expression. Mrs. Ollie M. England Logan, Utah | would like to express my appreciation and thanks to a wonderful missionary sister from Utah. We had the pleasure of her company in our home, and we grew to love her very much. After she returned home she very kindly had The Relief Society Magazine sent to me, and | receive it regularly each month.
I enjoy reading it so much, especially the poems and serials. To Sister Beth McEwan and all the wonderful missionary sisters and elders I've had the pleasure of meeting and having in my home, I would like to say thank you most sincerely, and God bless you. Doreen Burrows Port Kembla, N. S. W. Australia The poem ''Yesterday's Gold," by Dorothy Roberts (September 1963) still stays with me. Rarely does a poem affect me as this one has. After two full years, I am unable to get it out of my mind. In this poem, as in a perfect painting, you catch the pathos of poignant grief. It is a touching poem, a great one. I have not read a poem in some time that I think can compare with it. The poem ''Requited," by Bertha Kleinman is also outstanding and beautiful. There is a delicacy about it not often found in poems. Rose A. Openshaw Mesa, Arizona I! Am happy to report that more and more of the young homemakers in our ward are reading the educational and inspirational Magazine and also participating in Relief Society meetings. This morning I was reading again the September 1965 issue. I enjoyed Frances C. Yost's story "A Dress for Sherry Lynn," just as much this morning as when I read it about three weeks ago. The warmth of family love, the joy of sharing and taking turns written about in this lovely story, are indeed heartwarming. Ida Andersen Soda Springs, Idaho I The Relief Society Maczzine 

 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 

Art Layout by Dick Scopes; Illustrations by Mary Scopes.
