[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 12 | Special Feature | Legacy — Second Prize Poem Julie | H. Beecher]
[Legacy — Second Prize Poem Julie H. Beecher]

LEGACY Julie H. Beecher Apart, those days and these, Great-grandma's nearly hundred years stretch thin with turning hours And lengthened days until the merest link remains. Apart, her life and mine This present brightness seen through dimming lens, her ageing eyes; The drifting colors blended low to soft pastels, There is no harshness here. All sight and sound are tempered, cushioned, soothed By senses slower now but still aware... So justly delicate, Made fragile by the twisting, tumbling, turning on and on of time, So many years alone spent cloaked in memories. How good that time is not all, But only part. And that's the harvest then The good thick grass, the golden crop Time is not all. We are not separate in the end, This woman from another world and I. The years affect us only now; She leans nearly double... Withering porcelain, I am yet tall and strong with beginnings. She has lived for all the years I'll live And has been many things I'll be; Some day my hours will be reflections, too, Another circle, different thoughts, but close Because the retrospect is quiet, inward, sacred Recalling birth and smiles and conversation, Holding these inside until expression is lost; It's all the same her world and mine. All, in the end is harvest. Only time's wedge is between us, And it, too, will be pried out. We're bound together not by only blood, But tied by tears and grief and growth As women sisters are. We are united, touching, reaching out and back, Below and upward, on past time, through layered years Toward eternity with all our kind How good that time is not all. 12 Julie H. Beecher Second Prize Winner. Eliza R. Snow e _— Poem Contest: )? A x ee rs A ' a ' "6; be j 7 * ' RS Julie H. Beecher, Martinez, California, is a first-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. She speaks of herself as a ''beginning writer."' "" 'Legacy' is the first poem I have ever submitted for publication, although I am deeply interested in writing and hope to improve and expand my ability in the future. 'Legacy' was inspired and is dedicated to my great-grandmother Catherine Heggie Griffith, who will be ninety-nine years old this spring. Her family helped to settle Clarkston, Utah, where they established their home soon after crossing the plains. My parents are Mr. And Mrs. M. D. Hammond of Preston, Idaho, and my sister Rhonda is the reigning 'Miss Idaho.' My husband is Dick H. Beecher, who is a music instructor at Diablo Valley College in Concord, California. We have a son Mark who will soon be three years old. We enjoy our Church activities in the Martinez Ward, where I am presently serving as education counselor in the Relief Society presidency."

13 Third Prize Poem Forming Adorning Delighting 14 PRELUDE OF PROMISE Pearle M. Olsen The boundless ocean groaned! Its heaving strength Moved restlessly with bidding will of moon And wind, in ever-changing tidal length! Waves whipped in furious widening typhoon While roots of future islands, being born In darkest layers rupturing earth's core Spewed high again! Only the ocean, torn And timeless, knew the forming on its floor! Relentless effort, claiming right to be— With inch by painful inch of straining birth; Volcanic base, fringed coral filigree— A subterranean chain of writhing earth! The child of violence, risen from the deep— Mature and willing, luring nature's leap! The youthful surfaces of earth's marred shell— Nude islands, raw and waiting, empty-armed, Were swept by winds without a parallel And pounded by the force of rain's alarm! Their milling acts, on lava newly born, Made fertile soil for growth of migrant seed Let fall by halting bird, long weather-worn, Into a niche where sprouting could proceed. A few insects, wind-borne from distant land, With fragmentary green, wilting from strife— Found ways to give sweet growth to bare, unscanned And pregnant soil's potential—beauteous life! While poised on far-off shores, hoping to span The ocean, strained the earth's exploring man! Ke & € We traveled into other lands where strange Unheeding eyes were set in alien clay. We sought for words within a bounded range Of verbal comprehension—to convey A strengthened lexicon in daily fare. We felt endearing warmth in cultures' ring; Considered remnant nations melting where East met West, in nature's subtle blending. We found within the cauldron those who knew The plan of life we cherished in our hearts. We loved and understood, as children do, The others whom a mother's womb imparts. Our love identified to kind—beyond The barriers of speech, in spirit bond!: Pearle M.