[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 9 | Special Feature | Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow | Poem Contest]
s awarded to Julie H. Beecher, Martinez, California, for her poem "Legacy."' The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem ''Prelude of Promise.'' This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader. January was her birth month. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.

Award winners Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Wangsgaard, beginning in 1939, has received an award in nine of the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contests. Mrs. Beecher is a first-time winner, and Mrs. Olsen placed second in the contest last year. Two hundred seventy-two poems were submitted to the contest this year, representing nearly every State in the United States and several other countries. Seventy entries came from Utah, forty-three from California, twenty-three from Arizona, eleven from Washington, seven from Colorado, and six from Oregon. Seven entries came from Canada; and England, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa were represented. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine.