[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 68 | Lesson | Social Science • "Seek and Ye Shall Find" Alberta | H. Christensen]
67 SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 4 (Lesson 16 in Series) — "'Seek And Ye Shall Find' For Third Meeting, April 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for June 1966 Objective: To emphasize our responsibility to prepare a personal record of our ancestors, and to motivate women of Relief Society to discover for themselves the many satisfactions of genealogical research. Follow-up on Home-Doing suggestions for Lesson 3 "Personal Standards." Lesson 4 on preparing a personal genealogical record logically follows Lesson 3. INTRODUCTION "Why didn't grandmother tell us where her father was born and where he died? Or even better, why didn't she leave us a written statement?" Such questions, frequently asked by present-day Latter-day Saints, lead us into one area of what the Doctrine and Covenants states is the "most glorious of all subjects belonging to the everlasting gospel, namely, the baptism for the dead" (D&C 128: 17). Very likely this anonymous grandmother knew where her father was born, and had she known how important this information would be to descendants, she would have left a written statement. The element of adventure has always been an inviting factor in the search for truth, for new knowledge. Whether the search be confined to earth, or extended to a stellar space, men have risked their lives in the adventurous search for the unknown. 68 The Savior often spoke in parable of the value of the search and the joy of finding—the search for the lost coin; the search for the one lost sheep, though the ninety and nine were safe within the fold. Genealogical research, which precedes the making of the record and specific ordinance work, is also a search for that which is lost. It is the search for one's own people, and it can become one of the great adventures of life. Adding to the importance of this search is the fact that it is motivated by the commandment of the Lord. Many Latter-day Saint women have been constantly engaged in all phases of vicarious work for the dead. They need no conversion. For the thousands of individuals, however, who are new or comparatively new in the Church, the following question might be a logical one, "Why are a few names, a few dates so important?" In addition to these members who are seeking to understand all the principles of the gospel they have so recently accepted, there are many Latterday Saints who have known about the work for the dead but who have never engaged in it and, therefore, are not familiar with the many satisfactions which can come from participation in this glorious area of gospel living. To prepare one lesson which might meet fully the needs of these three groups would be most difficult. This lesson, therefore, will accent one area only - that of preparing the record of our forefathers. This will include the exciting and rewarding experience of genealogical research, which is necessary in the preparation of all family records. A DIVINE COMMANDMENT Section 128 of the Doctrine and Covenants, among other things, gives instruction on the mission of the prophet Elijah, and baptism for the dead, as a welding link between departed fathers and the living children. It confirms other divine instruction to the effect that records kept on earth as well as those kept in heaven will be used in the final judgment. Referring to Revelation 20:12, the Prophet Joseph Smith writes: I want you to remember that John the Revelator was contemplating this very subject in relation to the dead, when he declared, "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." You will discover in this quotation that the books were opened; and another book was opened, which was the book of life; but the dead were judged out of those things which were written LESSON DEPARTMENT in the books, according to their works; consequently, the books spoken of must be the books which contained the record of their works, and refer to the records which are kept on the earth. Now, the nature of this ordinance consists in the power of the priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is granted that whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Or, in other words, taking a different view of the translation, whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not be recorded in heaven; for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the ordinances in their own propria persona, or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead (D&C 128:6-8). OF IMMEDIATE CONCERN The Lord has given us a commandment to seek out our ancestors and to do a vicarious work for them which they could not do for themselves. Relative to this divine commandment, the Prophet Joseph Smith stated: "The greatest responsibility in this world that God has laid upon us is to seek after our dead" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, 1938, page 356). This responsibility is not to be postponed until next year, or next generation. We must assume our share of this cooperative endeavor today. The Prophet Joseph Smith also said, "The Saints have not too much time to save and redeem their dead, and gather together their living relatives, that they may be saved 


 also, before the earth will be smitten, and the consumption decreed falls upon the world" (J bid, page 330). PERSONAL RECORD ESSENTIAL The commandment of the Lord regarding vicarious work for the dead involves two distinct areas of effort: 1. The obtaining of specific information which will identify and establish relationships of individuals in whom we have special interest. This information is to be recorded according to specified instructions and preserved. 2. The performing of required ordinances within the Temple, for these individuals who have had no opportunity to do the work for themselves. Many Latter-day Saints have believed that since records are kept in heaven and also kept by the Church upon earth, no more records are necessary. This, however, is not so. We are commanded to keep a personal record. In a letter to the saints (D&C 128:24) the Prophet instructs us concerning the need and nature of vicarious work, including the records to be made. He writes, 'Let us, therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his holy temple, when it is finished a book containing the records of our dead, which shall be worthy of all acceptation." This is the Book of Remembrance. What an impressive title for this essential record! A BOOK OF REMEMBRANCE In the sixth chapter of Moses, we read of records prepared and kept by Adam and Eve, "And a book of remembrance was kept, in the which was recorded, in the 70 language of Adam, for it was given unto as many as called upon God to write by the spirit of inspiration... And a genealogy was kept of the children of God. And this was the book of the generations of Adam" (P of GP, Moses 6:5, 8). From these quotations revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in December 1830, we learn of information which is essential to our Book of Remembrance. What it should contain. According to the Priesthood Genealogical Committee of the Church, a Book of Remembrance should contain two primary divisions: Division 1 - Genealogical information relating to the direct line of the family, and pedigree charts as far back as we have been able to trace them. This would include the seven family group sheets prepared as part of the Priesthood Genealogy Program of 1965. It should also include eight sheets (four for the husband and four for the wife) on the families of our great grandparents, which are to be a part of this program for 1966. As additional family group sheets on the direct line are completed, and as the pedigree line is extended, they should be added to the record. Division 2 - Biographical material available, relative to parents, grandparents, or any ancestor whose name appears on the pedigree chart. If personal accounts are not available, then we should write what is known of their life stories. Spiritual experiences that have been meaningful to the family might appropriately be included. There should be a personal record of the person or persons compiling the record, which would include such information as birth, baptism, ordination, marriage, special blessings, missions, etc. Have you prepared a Book of Remembrance? If so, does it qualify, according to the above requirements? OF HISTORIC INTEREST We know from scripture that vicarious work for the dead is not a new doctrine. The Prophet Joseph Smith states this "was the burden of the scriptures" (SMITH, JOSEPH ° FIELDING, Compiler; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 193). 'Salvation for the dead was understood in the days of the primitive Christian Church, and to some extent baptisms for the dead continued to be performed until A. D. 379" MCCONKIE, BRUCE R., Compiler; Doctrines of Salvation, Sermons and Writings of Joseph Fielding Smith, Vol. II, page 163). Supporting this assertion are the words of Paul the apostle in his epistle to the Corinthians: "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (I Cor. 15:29). That there was no work for the dead until after the crucifixion of Christ, is supported by scripture. There could be no baptisms or endowments or any other work for the dead before the death of Jesus Christ. He it was who carried the message of the gospel to the dead and bridged the gulf spoken of in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus. He it was who, in fulfillment of the prophets, opened the door of the prison house and permitted the prisoners to come free. Until that time the dead were waiting for their salvation or redemption, which should come through the blood of Christ (Ibid., pp. 164- 165). After the resurrection of Christ the doors were opened to the dead, and the vicarious work for the dead was instituted and the authority of the Priesthood held by Elijah was then extended to include blessings for the dead, who would have received the gospel, if the privilege had been LESSON DEPARTMENT granted to them on this earth (Jbid., page 164). THE REWARDING SEARCH Although systematic and consistent research is to be encouraged, much needed information may be obtained from unexpected sources. One need only to be genuinely interested and alert; willing to listen and to put forth the effort to follow through on any "leads" that are found. Diaries, or old journals, old letters, old newspapers, and also family Bibles may often contain valuable information for the present-day genealogist. Where a family organization exists, it is often profitable to ask all members to go through their homes in search of any of the foregoing articles mentioned, for possible use by any other family members. Family cooperation is one of the most rewarding of benefits of genealogical work, for it brings living families together in mutual interests and affection. Numerous individuals throughout the world also have been cooperating unknowingly. Motivated by the spirit of Elijah, they have been and are spending both time and money in preparing histories and records of their forefathers. By 1844 there were only about thirty-seven published family histories.... Family genealogies are now numbered by the hundreds of thousands... (BENNETT, ARCHIBALD F.: Saviors on Mount Zion, page 75). To find an unknown ancestor after years and years of search is an experience almost too thrilling to be expressed in words. Far too numerous to be recorded, are the rewarding experiences which highlight the road of 


 genealogical discovery —- a road which all Latter-day Saint families may travel, if they will. Fragments of conversation of individuals who are making this journey follow. They may kindle your own imagination and motivate your own resourcefulness. Woman #1 - Last month I found in a box of family mementos and relics a letter which has been unnoticed for over sixty years. It gave me the place and definite date of an inheritance settlement of years ago. I wrote to the Probate Judge of the city, for a copy of the court proceedings. As a result, I now have the name of a previously unknown second wife and child for the family group sheet. Woman #2 - While living in a large city a few years ago, I telephoned a home listed under the name in which I was interested. I inquired of the man who answered the call if he knew of any printed book on the family line. He said he did not, but suggested that I write his father. I did this. His father's prompt reply began, 'Indeed I do know of a book on that family in America and I am sending it to you as a gift."'" What a priceless gift, for a telephone call and a letter! Woman #8 - I have just discovered something interesting about cousin Jethro. He was born in March of 1720, followed the sea and became a wealthy ship captain. During the American Revolution he gave $20,000 to buy shoes and blankets for the soldiers at Valley Forge. He's no longer just a name on the family group sheet. Have you a similar experience you could recount? There are literally thousands of illustrations where genealogical research has brought the personal satisfactions of new and lasting friendships, deepened the interest in further research, and has resulted in faith-promoting experiences. Those who are busily engaged in research work, today, affirm 72 that earnest desire and prayerful effort are essentials which may bring into fulfillment that great promise of the Savior, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matt. 7:7). The followi: g words by President Wilford Woodruff given in General Conference, October 1891, are applicable: It is a great blessing that we stand in the flesh in this last dispensation and fulness of times; and where we can open our hearts to understand these blessings, all of us will labor, as far as we have opportunity, to attend to this duty for our dead. I do not want to go into the spirit world and meet with my progenitors and have them say to me, "You held the keys of my redemption and my salvation and you neglected to do this work, and I am. Not redeemed'" (1966 Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons, Lesson 38). FOR DISCUSSION Questions which arise in the class period. Have class members relate, briefly, some of their own personal experiences in compiling the seven group sheets during the past year. FOR HOME DOING: 1. Become aware of the names on your pedigree chart so that no unexpected opportunity to obtain information will slip by you. Enlist the cooperation of family members. Young people often have found important genealogical information. 2. Do you have any biographical accounts of your parents or other persons appearing on your pedigree charts? If you do not, but know of relatives who might have this data, write for a copy. 3. Become acquainted through the high priest group leader of your ward with brochures and printed books written by Latter-day Saint members as special help for beginning researchers. Very useful among these brochures and printed books are: Genealogical Research - A Practical Mission, by HOWARD S. BENNION, The Deseret Sunday School Union. This book contains names of individuals who are specialists in research in different countries who have authored books on genealogy; Saviors on Mount Zion, by ARCHIBALD F. BENNETT. These books may be found in ward libraries. LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. Become familiar, through your ward high priest group leader, with the Pedigree Referral Service of the Genealogical Society. 5. Add to the suggestions for individual home activity this: Thank your Heavenly Father that you were permitted to come to earth in the dispensation of the fullness of time, with the privilege of being a savior on Mount Zion.