[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 44 | Home | A "Quick" Quilt for a Child's Bed | Min VanBrandwijk]
43 A ""Quick'' Quilt for a Child's Bed Min VanBrandwijk ™ An inexpensive and handy quilt for a child's bed can be made quickly from used cotton material and discarded nylon stockings. The quilt can be entirely machine sewed. It is warm, but light in weight, and can be machine washed. Children find the quilt convenient to take outdoors for use when they are sitting on the lawn. It also makes a "cushiony'' mat for the floor when children are playing or watching television. Make 8"' x 8" squares from old sheets or other washed cotton material. Fold each square from corner to corner to make a triangle. Cut a nylon stocking down the back and fold and fit it into each triangle. Stitch the triangle by machine along the edges and down the middle. Do not turn in the edges of the padded triangle. Make a square by stitching four triangles together, lapping the thin edges on the machine. You may use a zig-zag stitch or a plain stitch for this. Then stitch into strips of as many squares as you need for the desired size of quilt. (Five strips of six squares each will make a quilt 40''x48''.) To cover the quilt, lay flat on the table a piece of new material or used material double the size of the desired quilt, with small allowances for turned in edges. Lay the padded strips, which have been stitched together into one piece, on one half of the covering material. Fold over the other half, and pin the edges. Mark a pattern (a series of rectangles in graduating sizes, or any design desired) on the quilt and stitch the pattern on the machine, or by hand, if preferred. Turn in the edges and finish with stitching. The quilt makes an acceptable gift for a baby shower or for a child's birthday. Bath mats can be made in a similar way, by using toweling for the cover. Ties of yarn or colored heavy crochet cotton could be used for attaching the cover of the mat, since the toweling might be too heavy to stitch on the machine. If preferred, the ''quilting'' for the mat could be done by hand. 8" 8" lay stocking in lower half make 4 of these fold over and stitch triangles into a square 44 A "QUICK" QUILT FOR A CHILD'S BED make strip of these squares to _ required size—all by machine BS Stitch pattern when covered RESPITE