[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 35 | Fiction | The Blue Crystal Vase Betty Lou | Martin Smith]
Opening the glass door, Elizabeth reached inside and tenderly touched one or two of the dishes; then her hand rested upon a blue crystal vase. She picked it up and held it to her. Such a lovely vase, she thought. It had had a great deal of meaning in each of its past owners' lives. It was a wedding present to her Grandmother Daniels. How she had treasured it in her comfortable home in the East. The vase had had a special place upon the mantel, its color complementing the rest of the room. Elizabeth remembered her Grandmother telling her of their conversion to the Latter-day Saint faith. They had left their comforts and their successful life in the East to come to Zion. There just was not room enough to bring luxuries, only the necessities. When the time had come to leave, however, Elizabeth's Grandmother had decided to bring along the vase. Many times in their journey West, Grandmother Daniels had opened the dusty trunk, reached down to the bottom, and brought out the vase. It grew to be a symbol of hope for a bright and beautiful future with their newfound faith. As a child, Elizabeth recalled seeing the vase standing on the table in the modest living room of Grandma Daniels' home. Always when she did her cleaning, Grandmother Daniels would dust the vase first. After Grandma Daniels' death, Elizabeth's mother took the vase. How it had survived the hands of little children wanting to touch it, Elizabeth marveled. Finally, in desperation, Elizabeth's mother had put it above the reach of small hands. It was too much a part of the family to risk having it broken. Elizabeth wondered to whom she should pass on the vase. Carefully she put it back in its place in the closet and gently shut the door. The ensuing days went by a little too slowly for Elizabeth as she anticipated her daughter and granddaughter's visit. Then, at last, the day arrived, and Camille and Lisa were walking up the sidewalk to the old two-story home. "At last you're here!" Elizabeth hugged her kin affectionately. "I thought that the time would never come. I've been eounting the days. Why, you both look wonderful!" "Thank you, Mom. It's wonderful to see you, and you get prettier every day.'"' Camille still had her arms around her Mother. Lisa walked about the living room. "This room never changes, Grandma, and I hope that it never does. I love everything about it." Elizabeth smiled at the words of her granddaughter. "I'm afraid that it is quite old-fashioned, but I like it. And more THE BLUE CRYSTAL VASE important to me, it is just as your grandfather liked it." The evening was spent reminiscing over past days, some happy and some sad. All too soon Lisa yawned and excused herself. "It has been a long drive, Grandma, and I worked extra hard at the office so that I could leave early to drive here. I think that I'll turn in. Goodnight, both of you." Lisa kissed her mother and then her grandmother. "You should be extremely proud of your daughter, Camille; she is a fine, young woman." Elizabeth gently touched Camille's hand. Camille responded in her warm way. "I truly am, Mother. She has been such a good daughter. I only hope that she will be happy in her marriage. You must plan to come to their wedding. They will be married in the temple and then have a reception later on that evening. I hope that everything works out. We are trying to make some plans, and I must admit that I am bewildered already." "Now, don't start worrying; you know that things will work out just fine," Elizabeth reassured Camille. Camille walked to the edge of the porch and looked up at the stars blinking at her. It seemed to Elizabeth that they, too, responded to this lovely lady's warmth. "TI know things are going to be fine. It is just that the family she is marrying into is so socially conscious and proper that it wolries me." Elizabeth walked to her daughter's side. "Do you remember what I always told you when 


 you were growing up? Just be yourself. People should not expect that you be any less or any more. I hope that Lisa will remember that." Camille's eyes met her mother's. "I am sure that she will. I don't think that this marriage will change her, but one never knows." "Oh, come now, Camille, you don't think that she has changed, do you?" Elizabeth questioned. Camille suddenly changed the subject in her known fashion. "It seems like only yesterday that she was born, and, just think, Sunday she will be twenty-one years old. Where does the time go, Mother?" "I don't know, Camille. It seems only yesterday that you were a little girl yourself. I can still see you running into the house excitedly from school with some earth-shaking news to tell me, or trying to beat your older brothers and sister out of the frosting bowl."' Elizabeth paused. "You see, my dear, this house is full of memories. I will be standing at the kitchen sink doing my dishes, and I can almost hear your Father's footsteps coming up the walk and his calling out, 'I'm home; where's my family?' " Elizabeth's voice suddenly became choked. It was more than she could bear to go over the past. It seemed so much a part of her present. "Let's go in now, Mother. It is getting chilly out here."' Camille sensed her mother's mood and took her by the hand. In the middle of the night when Lisa and Camille were asleep, Elizabeth tried to plan Lisa's birthday celebration. She 38 expecially wanted it to be pleasant for her granddaughter before they had to return to the city. They would start out the day with Sunday School and return home to a birthday dinner. I should give her a present, Elizabeth mused, but what could it be? I don't have the money to buy her anything elaborate, and I do so want to give her something which she will like. Pll have to find something tomorrow. Elizabeth dropped off to sleep. "Can't anyone ever get up before you do? I thought that you would sleep in this morning, Lisa." Elizabeth walked down the stairs to see her granddaughter admiring her dishes in the old china closet. Lisa turned to her grandmother. "I had such a wonderful rest last night, that I couldn't stay in bed another minute. There is just something about this country air." Elizabeth made her way to the kitchen. "Well, I'll have breakfast ready in a moment. I see your mother is still a late sleeper. I guess that we will have to eat without her." "May I help you, Grandma?" Lisa followed her grandmother into the kitchen. "No dear, but you can sit down and talk to me." The early morning light reflected upon Lisa's skin, making it appear almost transparent. ""You know, Grandmother, your dishes are just beautiful. I'll bet they mean a great deal to you." "You are right, my dear. Some of them belonged to your Greatgrandmother, and many of them were wedding gifts. They are beautiful." Elizabeth loved her pretty dishes, and she was always ready to show them off. "I am especially fond of the blue crystal vase you have. It is so elegant. It is almost too beautiful to touch," Lisa praised. "Oh, that is my favorite, too, Lisa. It belonged to my mother and to my grandmother. They both guarded it diligently. I was so pleased when my mother wanted me to have it." The rest of the day was spent leisurely with mother, daughter, and granddaughter going into town and meeting old acquaintances. Elizabeth still couldn't find anything that she felt was suitable for Lisa. She bought her a birthday card with a meaningful verse; however, none of the items that she looked at appealed to her. She did so want to give Lisa a gift. She would just have to find an appropriate present. Sunday bloomed bright and clear, and Elizabeth arose a few minutes earlier. She dressed carefully into her best dress, and slipped a cobbler apron over it so as not to soil it while she prepared breakfast. She walked to the dresser and gave her hair a last-minute touch here and there. Silently she went down the stairs. Camille and Lisa were still sleeping. She hoped with all her heart that Lisa would like the gift that she had chosen for her. Elizabeth had qualms about it as_ she wrapped the package beautifully. Maybe it wouldn't be good enough to put in Lisa's new home. I could just give her the card, Elizabeth rationalized. Lisa would understand her position. Elizabeth added the finishing touches to the package just in THE BLUE CRYSTAL VASE time. She could hear Lisa stirring in her room. "Grandmother, dinner was just scrumptious, and Sunday School gave me such a good feeling. The day has been one I'll always remember." Lisa pushed herself away from the table. "I am so glad that we decided to come. It would have been a_ lonesome birthday with Jack in the East and Daddy away also." "T hate the week end to come to an end, Lisa. You don't know what it has meant to me to have you and your mother here," Elizabeth expressed herself. "Oh, I have a little gift for you, my dear. I wish that it could be more.". Going to the buffet, Elizabeth reached inside and brought out the package wrapped in different shades of rose and handed it to Lisa. Slowly Lisa opened the present and then exclaimed. "Oh, Grandma, the blue crystal vase! I could never accept it!" Elizabeth felt herself sinking inside as she slumped into a chair, Lisa had changed after all. She 


 didn't want the gift. It was not good enough now. When she had been a little girl, she had always been so grateful for the least little show of affection. Elizabeth let her thoughts run rampant. "Mother, you shouldn't have," Elizabeth heard Camille saying as if she were somewhere in the distance. Lisa rose from her chair and walked over to Elizabeth, kneeling before the older woman. "Grandma, I couldn't take this beautiful possession from you. I know how much it is treasured by you, and how much you hold it dear." "Lisa!" Tears appeared in Elizabeth's eyes. "I wanted you to have it. I know that it won't compare with the gifts that you will receive at your wedding...." "Oh, Grandma, it couldn't be compared with the other gifts. It will be far superior to them. I have always wanted that vase, ever since I was a little girl, but I never dared hope that it would ever be mine. It will have a special place on the mantel in our new home for all to admire. You will see it, too, when you come to visit us." "Well," Camille said, "how do you like that? I have always wanted that vase, too." She laughed. ''But I am thrilled that you gave it to Lisa." The sharp ring of the telephone pierced the atmosphere. "That must be Jack; he was going to call me here at three o'clock. I can hardly wait to tell him about the vase." Camille walked over to the table and picked up the vase. "Mother, if this vase could only talk, it could tell quite a story, couldn't it?" Elizabeth stood by her daughter. "It is telling a story, Camille. Why do you think that it appears more beautiful as the years go on?" Camille held the vase up, and it seemed to reflect even more brilliantly than before. It did indeed have a story to tell, this blue crystal vase.