[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 4 | Special Feature | Teaching the Gospel Joseph | Fielding Smith]
[Teaching the Gospel Joseph Fielding Smith]

"This is an organization that was established by the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is, therefore, the oldest auxiliary organization of the Church, and it is of the first importance. It has not only to deal with the necessities of the poor, the sick and the needy, but a part of its duty—and the larger part, too —is to look after the spiritual welfare and _ salvation of the mothers and daughters of Zion; to see that none is neglected, but that all are guarded against misfortune, calamity, the powers of darkness, and the evils that threaten them in the world. It is the duty of the Relief Societies to look after the spiritual welfare of themselves and of all the female members of the Church. It is their duty to collect means from those who have in abundance, and to distribute it wisely unto those in need. It is a part of their duty to see that there are those capable of being nurses, as well as teachers and exemplars 


 in Zion, and that they have an opportuniy to become thoroughly prepared for this great labor and responsibility. I have heard of a disposition on the part of some of our sisters to become a law unto themselves in relation to these things. I would like to say that it is expected of the Relief Society, especially the general authorities of that great organization, that they will have a watchcare over all its organizations among the women of Zion. They stand at the head of all such; they ought to stand at the head, and they should magnify their calling, and see to it that error is not permitted to creep in, that cabals are not formed, that secret combinations may not get a foothold, to mislead the sisters. They should see to it that the other organizations of women in the Church correspond and are in harmony with their organizations. Why should this be? In order that the women of Zion may be united, that their interests may be in common, and not conflicting or segregated, and that the purpose of this organization may be realized and the organization itself be effective for good in every part of the Church throughout the world, wherever the gospel is preached.... [ commend the Relief Societies to the bishops and say, be friendly to these organizations, because they are auxiliary organizations and a great help to the bishops...." It is the duty of the Relief Society "to look after the interests of all the women of Zion and of all the women that may come under their supervision and care, irrespective of religion, color or condition. Today it 6 is too much the case that our young, vigorous, intelligent women feel that only the aged should be connected with the Relief Society. This is a mistake. We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence, and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women in their duties—domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them." The matter of teaching is one of the greatest importance. We cannot estimate its value when it is properly done; neither do we know the extent of the evil that may result if it is improperly done. The greatest qualification required of a teacher is that she have faith in the principles of the gospel; that she believe in the principles of revealed truth as they have come through inspired prophets in our own day as well as in times of old; and that he or she shall exercise their privilege as a teacher in the spirit of prayer and faith. I am in full accord with the commandment as it is written in this revelation. Unless a man (or woman) does have a knowledge of the truth, has faith in the word of the Lord and his power, and is guided by the Spirit of the Lord, he should not teach. We are commanded "to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life." For we "shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. For the word of the Wee cents Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ." I was handed a poem the other day by Sister Pauline Marie Bell which fits in with Relief Society and I would like to give it to you now: Ancient mothers, God has blessed you With a hope so mighty strong Thou didst give a glorious pattern, Courage filled our hearts with song— Relief Society in faith united Walking where the Savior trod, Gazing upward to that Giver, TEACHING THE GOSPEL Praising ever Israel's God. Daughters of those faithful Marys, Sharing woe with Christ so true, Faith undaunted, God has given— Blessings are fulfilled in you. Zion's daughters, meek and loyal, Children of that chosen band, True and faithful, God has called you, To assist his mighty hand. May we all strive to keep the commandments, and the Lord will bless us in our work, and may he bless each of you with a desire to follow in paths of righteousness, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen.