[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 16 | Special Feature | Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short | Story Contest]
[Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest]

16 FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest c > od I e Bart AKO cil Wd Witl aa 1! Ta I Love Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt Sudbury, Ontario, Canada @ Barbara took down the box of letters, choosing one carefully from the rather untidy collection within. The outer page was torn a little and beginning to take on the color of age. Opening the letter slowly, she began to read. "Darling, at last I can tell you where I am and why you haven't heard from me for quite awhile. This is D-day plus seven. I left England for the Continent on D-day plus three. (Isn't this a ridiculous way to describe time?) I keep thinking of that last night we were together at Winchester and the 'heavenly' meal of beans on toast at that old-fashioned restaurant. We had so much to say to each other and time was so short. "Darling, before I left England I mailed a book to you at your army address. Did you receive it O. K.? Will you read it and let me know what you think of it? Remember our discussions: on this subject and your utter amazement at my 'credibility'? "Do you recall our standing in the rain outside your billet, with your twelve-o'clock deadline, and so many words left unspoken? I told you I loved you and asked you to wait for my return. You touched my cheek gently with your lips and whispered, 'It's impossible, I've been so careful not to fall in love, especially with an American soldier!' "T love you, Barbara,. And we will have a future together. Because of this love, I want to share my thoughts, my dreams with you. Darling, you'll like America, and I'm sure you will be happy there with me. I have written my family and told them about my 'English sergeant.' I'm not going to write of the fighting here, or of the unspeakably sordid aspect of war. 7 "Thank you for your poem and for your overly kind comments on my poetry. I'll try to write often. Read the book I sent please. '"'Love me in absence as I love you. "Mac 9? Barbara brushed the tears almost surreptitiously away. Her thoughts went back to those war years. It was November 1943. Barbara and Monica, her closest friend, were planning their long week end in London. Monica, looking rather worried, turned to Barbara. "T hate to tell you this, but I got a letter from Cam—you know —the American I met on my last leave. He wants to see me this week end in London. I've been wanting to tell you all week, but I knew we had planned this week end together and." "Oh, Monica, don't feel badly about it, I can visit my aunt. She lives just outside London." Monica looked forlorn. "But I do feel awful! I know, why don't I write and ask if he has a friend a sort of blind date? That's what I'll do, I'll write tonight!" Barbara shook her head fiercely. "No, no, I really don't approve of blind dates, they often prove embarrassing to both parties, especially if they don't hit it off." She smiled reassuringly. Monica was insistent. ''Listen, Babs, Cam is a decent fellow, and I'm sure he will bring a nice friend. Do say you'll come with me!" Barbara thought of the longanticipated week end, and the prospect of spending it in Aunt Selina's huge, lonely house. "All right, but there's no obligation attached. Impress this upon your American friend."' Now they were both on their way to London, Monica bubbling with excitement, and Barbara feeling apprehensive at the prospect of the unknown blind date. Their room on the top floor of the Y. W. C. A. On Baker Street was small but spotless. Monica had arranged for them to meet their dates in the downstairs lounge at eight o'clock in the evening. Dressing was no problem, it simply meant a change of uniform, shirt, and shoes. Barbara felt a surge of excitement within her. This really was different, preparing to meet a blind date. Promptly at eight they descended the narrow spiral staircase leading into the lounge, Monica well ahead, eyes shining and anxiously scanning the room for the two American uniforms. Barbara hung back. "Monica, I don't see any American soldiers, they didn't turn up." Monica hadn't heard. Forgetting her lady-like descent, she streaked across the room and into the arms of a husky, dark-eyed American soldier, previously halfhidden by a reception cubicle. "Cam, oh, Cam how nice to see you again!'"' Monica hugged him joyfully. "Monica, honey." Cam _ held her at arms' length. ""We have an audience. This is Mac, full name, Glen McKinley.... By the way, where's your friend?" Barbara stepped shyly forward, extending her hand to meet Mac's.