[Vol53 | January 1966 | Page 42 | Home | Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions — Part III | Rosa Shurtz]
Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions Part III — BREAD AND ROLLS Rosa Shurtz BASIC PRIZE-WINNING ROLL DOUGH 4 c. Reconstituted dried milk, lukewarm 1 c. Sugar 4 cakes dried yeast 4 eggs 4 tsp. Salt 1 c. Cooking oil 14 c. Sifted flour Dissolve sugar and yeast in warm milk. When yeast becomes active, add wellbeaten eggs and enough flour to make a medium batter. Beat well and let set until bubbles begin to form. Beat in salt and cooking oil and add rest of flour, beating well. When too thick to beat, pour onto floured board and knead until smooth and elastic. The secret of this dough is to use only enough flour to be able to handle it. It should be as soft as possible, almost sticky. Place in greased bowl and cover with damp cloth. Let rise until double in bulk and punch down well. Let rise again. Divide dough into easily handled portions and let rest about 15 minutes. Pat out on floured board to about 14 inch thick. Cut with biscuit cutter. Place close together on greased flat pans. Let rise until light. Bake 12 to 20 minutes (depending on size) in 425° oven. Brush with melted butter when they come from oven. This dough can be shaped into any form desired. The rolls freeze well. VARIATIONS OF BASIC PRIZE-WINNING ROLL DOUGH HERB BREAD Add to basic mixture: 2 tsp. Nutmeg 4 tsp. Dried sage 8 tsp. Caraway seeds Let rise as in basic recipe, make into loaves. Let rise. Bake at 375° for 35 minutes. 42 THE HOME INSIDE AND OUT ORANGE ROLLS After second rising, roll dough into oblongs, spread with some of following filling. Roll as for cinnamon rolls. Place some of filling in pan and put rolls in cut side down. Let rise. Bake at 375° about 25 minutes. Turn out on large tray at once. Filling: 2 c. Sugar 4 tbsp. Grated orange rind 1 c. Orange juice and pulp 1 c. Butter Cook 2 minutes, cool until thick. CHRISTMAS CAKE When mixing basic dough add: 4 tsp. Powdered cardamon 1 c. Chopped citron 2 c. Golden seedless raisins Bake in round loaves 350° 30 minutes. STOLLEN After second rising of basic dough, turn onto lightly floured board and knead in: 2 c. Slivered almonds 1 c. Cut-up citron 1 c. Candied cherries 4 tbsp. Grated lemon rind Pat out dough into ovals 8 by 12 inches. Spread with soft butter. Fold in two, the long way. Form into crescents. Press edges firmly, place on greased, heavy, baking sheets. Let rise until double. Bake at 375° 30 minutes. Brush with melted butter. Fruity Filling 8 c. Chopped apples 4 c. Golden seedless raisins 4 c. Brown sugar 2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Cinnamon Boil one minute and cool. Use to fill tea rings, braids, twists, and kolach. Nuts may be added. BOHEMIAN BRAID After second rising of basic dough, knead in: 4 tsp. Grated lemon rind 14% tsp. Mace 2 c. Golden seedless raisins 2 c. Chopped nuts Divide dough into equal strips about 14 inches long. Place on greased baking sheets about an inch apart and braid loosely, beginning at the middle, working toward the ends. Seal ends well. Let rise until double in bulk. Bake at 350° about 30 to 35 minutes. Ice with powdered sugar icing while still warm.