Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN: In 1891, at the National Council in Washington, D. C., the Relief Society became connected with the National Council of Women of the United States. This entitles the society to an equal standing with all the great organizations thus federated in the Council, giving to each and all this broad system of representation, and of becoming widely known, not possible except by united efforts. —Emmeline B. Wells AUTUMN Thou burden of all songs the earth has sung, Thou retrospect in Time's reverted eyes, Thou metaphor of everything that dies, That dies ill-starred, or dies beloved and young, And therefore blest and wise— O be less beautiful, or be less brief, Thou tragic splendor, strange and full of fear! In vain her pageant shall the Summer rear: At thy mute signal, leaf by golden leaf, Crumbles the gorgeous year. —Selected LETTER FROM NAUVOO:.. Many times when reading or hearing about Nauvoo, I have wished in my heart I could visit that sacred spot of Earth... But here I am verily walking those very identical streets that our beloved Prophet and Patriarch while in life walked so many, many times.... Being shown the spot in the river, where Joseph Smith baptized for the dead. We then visited the cottage where the Prophet first lived then the Mansion of the temple there is not one stone left upon another, there are stores built upon the block, also vacant places sown in grass.... Surely the blessing of the Lord has not rested upon this place since the expulsion of the Saints. —E. J. S. WHO KNOWS Who knows we have not lived before In forms that felt delight and pain? If death is not the open door Through which we pass to live again? —Selected RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN CARDSTON, CANADA: The Relief Society of the Alberta Stake of Zion convened October 5th... Stake President Mary L. Woolf presiding.... President Sarah B Daines was called upon to report the Cardston Society over which she presides... Spoke of the unity that exists among them... The rearing of children and the necessity of teaching them strict obedience... Counselor Rhoda Hinman spoke on the life of Joseph the Prophet and the many excellent traits of his character... Sister Ella Nielson... Spoke on the subject of marriage —Jane W, Bates, Sec. Page 658 N The House of a Million Shells, a new art attraction for tourists in Laguna Beach, California, we heard a lady explaining a long wall map of Hawaii, made of beautiful, many-colored shells. '""This is the Island of Oahu, and this (pointing to a small, dark pattern) is the Mormon temple, a most beautiful building." The artist is Mrs. Ida Kuhn, who has lived in Hawaii most of her life. She has personally gathered millions of shells, creating from them remarkable native scenes, including a portrait of King Kamehameha I, with more than 200,000 shells in it, and this long mural map, which required six months' work. As a decor in the main room, she has portraits of two Latter-day Saints, a girl and a man, native entertainers, whose friendship she prizes. A great humanitarian, softspoken Mrs. Kuhn has taken into her home and, in most cases, loved into being good citizens, more than four hundred wards of the Hawaiian juvenile courts. She has also maintained a convalescent home for the poor, the blind, and other handicapped persons. WAN HARBRECHT, charming young Latter-day Saint lyric soprano who has won recognition in Italy and America, went as the soloist with the Tabernacle Choir on