[Vol3 | May 1916 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

LESSON in. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in June. GENEALOGY. CONCLUSION. The wonderful fact that 40,000 women of this Society have been spending some time, at least, this winter in the study and preparation of individual sheets, is the most stupendous happen- ing in genealogical circles for the year 1915. Naturally the ques- tion now arises, What shall the results of our wondrous work be? It may be well to explain exactly what these sheets are and why we have used them. They are sample sheets from the Mc- Alister Living Record Book. Our forefathers were in the habit of keeping family Bibles in which were entered the births, deaths and marriages of the family. The parish church kept a record also of the marriage, birth and death, but each family felt the vital necessity of preserving the family records in their own homes. If a question arose in legal or social matters, it was a difificult matter and sometimes impossible to secure the date re- quired from the parish clerks, for the various items of informa- tion would necessarily be scattered through different parish records, separated as the items would be by intervening years. The family Bible, however, kept that information compactly be- tween the lids of that sacred book which was guarded as a treasure above price. The family Bible has passed out of existence practically, es- pecially the keeping of records therein. What is taking the place of the family Bible in our homes? It is certainly important that v,'e shall get the records of our dead and record them properly, and then preserve them, but it is more vitally important that we shall record and preserve all data concerning ourselves and our children. Our descendants will be quite as disappointed in us if we fail to do this as we are with our grandparents who may have failed to preserve their records for us. The McAllister Living Record Book was prepared imder the direction and approval of the First Presidency of the Church for the express purpose of recording therein the data which usually went into the family Bible. More than that, very much more, for the author of the book, not only provided places where marriage, birth and death can be recorded, but has included the important items of baptism, of endowments, of missions, of ordinations, or in the case of women, where they were set apart for certain offices, of removal from place to place, and made a place for our educational records. In addition to all this the author provides for a few important eugenic facts such as the weight, the height, the color of the eyes and hair, and the physical habit. Think of the infinite value to our descendants, of these interesting facts. We say emphatically that every family in this Church should purchase and fill out a Living Record Book. All need it. All should have it. If there be any widows in the Church who are too poor to purchase this book, it might be suggested that they buy a dozen or more of the sample sheets and sew them together with a brown paper cover, taking just as good care of this as they would of the record itself. Every child that is born should be entered at once into this Living Record. As he is baptized and confirmed, these entries should be made with the names of those who officiate in the cere- mony; when he starts to school and the dates of all his ordina- tions in the priesthood, his missions and finally his marriage. Think how valuable that would be if you had such a record con- cerning all of your parents and grandparents whom you knew and loved. Then consider the joy and gratitude of yoiu- de- scendants if they possess that information concerning you. How many are there in this Society who have not the scratch of a pen in their own homes concerning the births, blessings, missions, etc., etc., of their children or themselves. This is a genealogical crime and should be remedied at once. Therefore, we close this sea- son's lessons with the earnest suggestion that as far as possible every member of this Society shall secure a Living Record Book and fill it up properly or at least as well as may be. Make birth- day presents and Christmas presents of these books to your family and friends. The Living Record Book is not at all like the record books which have been prepared for the names of our kindred dead and our progenitors. No doubt most of the students are aware of these facts, butwe state it for those who are not familiar witli this point. One more point remains before we conclude this sea- son's work. A great many ask what shall be clone with the sheets which have been filled out during this winter's work. \Yq would suggest that >'ou make duplicate sheets and keep your own as a sample by which to ])repare your book, and then deposit the dupH cate in tlie archives nf the sncietv \\Mien tlic great i?enealoiricnl. 
 library is opened in the new Administration Building in this city, there may be a call issued for all these duplicate sheets from the v\omen of the Society. So we suggest taking excellent care of them. QUESTIONS. What is the difference between the McAllister Living Record and the Record Book for temple work? What have you done about your own living temple record? Why does each family need a living record book? How would you proceed to fill up your living record book? Let such members of the class as may possess family Bibles with records in them produce them at this lesson. Also any who may have filled up their living temple books can exhibit them to the class. ART. SUMMER LANDSCAPE. The latter part of May, and the beginning of June show Nature's greatest profusion of flowers in our Intermountain region. As far as may be, Nature will now be robed in green. Take notice of the wide difference in shades and tints of green by sunlight, shadow, twilight, moonlight, and by starlight. These should be studied. Green is persistent, its color shows strongly at night, or by lamplight. Note the difference in sage-brush green with its blue tendency. The alfalfa in strong sunlight shows more yellow. The apple green also has the same warm tone of yellow. The sage and willow we call cool greens, the alfalfa and apple green in sunlight are the warm greens. Look out on the fields and note the cool green in oat patches, and try to analyze the difference of tone in the various kinds of grain. One has more blue, another more yellow or more purple than the others. Now the sky is filled with fleecy clouds, and the blue breaking through is very intense. A JUNE PICNIC. June is the time for summer picnics. Choose the most de- lightful spot for a walk on this the year's most perfect day. Per- fectdevelopment shows in all growing things. Now we see the promise of fruits and seeds, which will be harvested in the fall. — The air is warm, balmy, and pleas&nt the sounds are cheerful. The birds* young broods are talking to their mothers, the insects hum, color is fresh, strong, exciting, and pleasant. There is less of grey than at any other time of year, excepting brightest au- tumn. June feels joyous, full of hope, self-satisfied. a. Describe the fields from a high position. b. Describe your visit out to nature. c. Which is darker, the sky or the fields? d. Which are darker, the plowed lands or the g-reenpatches? e. What is the color of the plowed lands? f. Which are darker, the nearby fields or the far-away? g. Which are darker, the newly plowed fields, or those plowed last summer? h. What is most exquisite in May time? (Answer) May morning. i. What is most wonderful in June? (Answer) The noon time, and the June twilight. j. Describe a May morning. ARCHITECTURE. AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE —THE FORMATIVE PERIOD, THE COLONIAL OR GEORGIAN PERIOD. a. Let a native of England describe the land from which the American Colonists came. b. Describe America as the Colonists found it. c. What kind of architecture would the Pilgrims naturally use, and why could it not be exactly copies from that of the Mother country? d. In what other things were the Colonists interested than in houses, and why? e. What style of architecture or house-building did the natives employ? f. Have we a national style of architecture? g. Speak of the Formative Period. h. Show pictures of the first American buildings if you can. i. What materials were available for the American home? j. What materials became most popular among the Col- onists? k. What is the Colonial Period? 1. What are the reasons for the great beauty of Colonial style? m. Describe Christ's Church, Philadelphia. n. Describe the interior of Christ's Church — Hartford. o. Describe Shirley House — Virginia. p. Describe Craigie House — Cambridge.