[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | May | Issue: 8 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: EMMA J. T. ROBERTS,]

			R. S. REPORTS.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the 47th Relief Society con-
ference of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Vernal in the ward house, February 28,
1909, beglnning at 2 p. m.
	There were present on the stand Brother
Dan B. Colton of the Stake Presidency, and
several high Councilors, Patriarch Nelson
Merkley, several bishops of wards, besides a
goodly number of Relief Society presidents
of wards. President Nancy A. Colton pre-
siding. Singing, prayer and singing.
	Sacrament was then administered, after
which President Nancy A. Colton welcomed
the brethren and sisters; she reported the
Stake in good condition, all the wards in the
valley had been visited except Jensen. We
anticipate visiting those on the reservation
in the near future; she spoke of the Sabbath
day, charity, cheerfulness and cleanliness.
	A lecture by Mrs. Jean Merkley was given
entitled “Loyalty.” “To our country, to
our Church and people, to the priesthood,
to our homes and relatives and to ourselves,”
etc. The subject was ably handled.
	Song by Bathera Young and Mina Pack,
assisted by Miss Afton Pack.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett addressed the con-
gregation on the subjects of loyalty, charity,
the evils that surround us, the duties of
Relief Society workers, and of the mission-
aries that go to the nations of the earth.
She bore a strong testimony of the truthful-
ness of the Gospel.
	Song by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, assisted
by Brother Orson Calder.
	Brother Dan B. Colton, in behalf of the
Stake Presidency, felt to say amen to the
work which was being done in the Relief
Society of the Stake and he appreciated the
work of the Relief Society workers. He
encouraged the brethren and sisters to
gather and fight against the evils that are
in our midst.
	President Nancy A. Colton made a few
closing remarks, thanked all for their
presence.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing. Benediction by Elder Fred G.
Bingham.
			PNEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec’y.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference  of
the Relief Society of the Nebo Stake of Zion
held at the Benjamin Ward meeting house,
on Friday, March 25, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 a. m. Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presidlng.
	Singing, prayer and singing.
	Sister Bingham, president of Benjamin
Ward, spoke a few words of welcome, and
gave in a brief report of her ward.
	President Eliza J. Dixon made opening
remarks congratulated the people on their
efforts in coming out today, said we are in
need of spiritual food as well as temporal,
and we get fed both temporally and spirit-
ually in the Relief Society work, spoke of
early spiritual training in children.
	Sister Forcey gave in a good report of
Mammoth Ward. Sister Jenkins gave a
good report of the condition of Goshen
Ward, all working in harmony. Sister
Tietjen reports Santaquin as doing good
work. Gave some good instructions—we
should do the will of our Savior.
	Instrumental selection by Sister Oakle-
man. Sister Andrus spoke for some time on
the subject of charity, in a very able man-
ner.

[Column 2]
	Recitation, Josephine Shepherd.
	Sister Eleanor Hone read a paper on
child culture.
	After singing, and prayer by Sister Mary
Brown, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	At 2 p. m. the conference reconvened,
President Eliza Dixon presiding, Mary
Brown in charge.
	Singing and prayer and usual exercises.
	A paper was read on parents’ class work
by Sister Beck. Sister Hawkins spoke a
few words, having just returned from a three
months’ visit to California. Recitation, Sis-
ter Nora S. Hone.
	Sister Kapple gave a talk on lesson work
for the Relief Society, spiritual growth.
	Solo by Brother Charles Hawkins, entitled
“The Way of the Cross.” Sister Alis-
baugh gave a talk on our children attending
the various organizations, referred especially
to the Religion classes.
	Brother Swenson spoke of the work and
responsibility of the sisters and the mission
of Joseph Smith. Said to teach our children
the great sin of blasphemy. Bishop John-
son said it was good to carry sunshine in
our lives.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
and thanked all who had taken part in mak-
ing our conference a success.
	After singing, and benediction by Sister
Clara Evans, conference adjourned for three
months.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.
			TETON STAKE.
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened at Driggs, April 25th, 1909.
President Sophia E. Rigby presiding. The
morning session commenced by singing.
Prayer by President J. D. Killpack, Jr.
Singing. The sacrament was administered,
and during the passing of the sacrament
Jas. F. Griggs played an instrumental sacred
solo.
	Six wards were represented, six of the
Stake Board, the Stake Presidency, five
High Counselors present. There was a good
representation of members and visitors.
	Brother David A. Smith of Victor sang a
solo.
	President Sophia E. Rigby welcomed
those present and prayed for the Spirit of
the Lord to attend our conference.
	Sister Sadie Green of Driggs read a paper
on Relief Society work.
	President Martha Little reported Haden
Society.
	Duet from Darby.
	Geo. S. Young of the Stake Presidency
spoke of how Latter-day Saints are tested as
to their faith in our Creator. Cheerfulness
was also spoken upon, and how it helped
others as well as ourselves.
	Hymn, “All hail the glorious day,” by the
congregation.
	Secretary Olive M. Scott reported Victor
Society.
	T. R. Wilson of the High Council spoke
of the genuine work of the Relief Society.
	Darby was reported by President Louisa
Davidson.
	Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless Thee.” Benediction by Sister M. H.
Price.
	The afternoon session opened by singing.
Prayer and singing as usual.
	Silvia M. Thompson spoke on the great-
ness of the Relief Society work, also recited
“No room for the boys.”
	Quartette rendered from Pratt ward.
	J. D. Killpack, Jr., of the Stake Presi-

[Column 3]
dency encouraged the good work of the Re-
lief Society.
	Solo from Haden.
	Lecture, “Science of baby raising,” by A.
T. P. Durrant.
	President D. C. Driggs spoke on patience,
perseverance and cheerfulness.
	Maude Pratt Griggs then sang a solo.
	Singing, “When dark and drear.”
	Benediction by A. T. P. Durrant.
				LYDIA E. FULLMER,
						Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Alpine stake was held in the
2nd ward chapel American Fork, Friday,
January 29th, 1909. Stake Counselor Annie
C. Hindley presiding[-] Meeting opened at
10 a. m. with the usual exercises.
	Counselor Hindley greeted the Sisters.
Thought it the largest gathering since the
stake was organized. Extended the greet-
ings of the season in behalf of President
Standring, who had been called away to at-
tend two funerals of very dear friends. The
first time our president has been absent from
conference since the stake was organized.
Sister Hindley thought the sisters had done
well this year and the president was well
satisfied with their labors, and desired her
love to them. Invoked our Father’s blessings
would rest upon us, and that by common
consent we would hold a testimony meeting
this morning, and all who desired could take
part.
	Song, “Count your blessings,” by the con-
gregation.
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs bore her testi-
mony, and urged the sisters to not spend all
their time in temporal affairs. We must
feed our spirits and seek to overcome our
weaknesses. Set a good example to our
children and make a determination that we
will serve the Lord.
	Twenty-two sisters bore faithful, spirited
testimonies, interspersed with singing and
prayer from the congregation. The spirit
of the Lord worked so powerfully among the
sisters they could not keep their seats but
were on their feet two at a time, and it
seemed quite difficult to bring the meeting
to a close.
	Benediction by Sister E. D. Clarke.
	(Lunch was served during the noon recess.
300 sisters were present.)
	Afternoon Session: Sister Annie C. Hind-
ley presiding.
	After the opening exercises Sister Kate
Allred reported Lehi 2nd ward in good con-
dition. Have testimony meetings and les-
son meetings alternately. Have 850 bushels
of wheat on hand. Gave a report of the
Kirmess, given by the Relief Society for one
week, and had cleared something over four-
teen hundred dollars to finish paying off the
debt on the Tabernacle.
	Sister Louisa Halliday reported Pleasant
Grove. “We work unitedly and have quite
a few poor and elderly people, who feel
grateful for the help the Society gives them.
Have a new cement granary, with iron roof
and door, and feel that our grain will be safe
from mice and insects.
	Mrs. Maycock of the Agricultural College
of Logan was introduced to the sisters and
gave a lecture. Traced the growth of do-
mestic science and home economics, proving
that the educational system has been at
fault, and that professional training of girls
should be home making. They should
choose their profession early in life and all


their education should tend toward that of
home making, as ninety-nine girls out of
every hundred come to that some time in
their lives. The day is coming when we will 
realize the benefit of proper home making
even in the question of diet, if the mother
wishes to raise the standard of her family,
the community, the state and the nation,
she must look well to the diet in her home.
The boys and girls must be taught to be
home makers and home keepers. Teach
them how to cope with problems they will
meet in the homes they expect to make.
Girls should be taught to save time and
energy by knowing how to keep house prop-
erly, but to do so we must be alive, be
awake and progressive. The business man
knows that he must get out and converse
with people, read along his line of work and
be a wide awake, progressive man. The
home maker should do the same in order to
profitably use her time and energy.
	It is the duty of the mother to see that
the daughter is in full practice in all the du-
ties of home making, before she sacrifices
her time and energy to let the daughter take
so much text book and cultural work. More
household duties would be of more health-
ful benefit to the daughter and at the same
time prepare her for wife and motherhood,
and we would have fewer nervous wrecks.
Some mothers think that the daughter is not
strong and too delicate to perform the duties
of home, and so does that herself when nine
times out of ten the mother is the most un-
able, and it would be the best thing for the
daughter to drop some of her mental work
and perform more physical labor. Instead
of education preparing one for life, we should
be living the actual practical life while get-
ting this education.
	President S. L. Chipman enjoyed the spirit
of the meeting and also the ideas advanced
today. There is nothing that will bring more
comfort in the home than a little regularity
and arrangement. This is a fact in business
and it is in the home.
	We are living in an age of progress and
advancement. Our schools have been mak-
ing a mistake in training the head and not
the heart nor the hand. I hope the time is
not far distant when the training will be di-
vided between the head, heart and hand,
and make the education one of practical
work, so that our boys and girls will be
turned out practical men and women.
	Let us have our ideals and ambitions high
and work to that and reach it.
	We do not find such another organization
as the Relief Society. It is a labor of love;
so is that of the bishop. Stand by them and
do not allow any one to say anything against
them in your presence.
	Meeting closed by singing and the benedic-
tion was by President James H. Clarke.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA J. T. ROBERTS,
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


