[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | May | Issue: 8 | Title: AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN. | Author: Unknown]

AN IMPORTANT GATHERING OF WOMEN.
		Millennial Star, April 29, 1909.
	During the present week an important
congress has been holding daily sessions at
St. James’ Hall, Gt. Portland Street, Lon-
don. Two hundred delegates from twenty-
one different countries are gathered in the
quinquennial council of the International
Woman Suffrage Alliance. This is not to
be confounded with the movement popularly
known as the cause of the Suffragettes. That
is an independent organization of a militant
character, being neither a part of nor en-
dorsed or opposed by the International or-
ganization which has been holding its ses-
sions this week in London. The ladies in
charge of the meetings of the Alliance are
highly educated, earnest, devoted, well train-
ed in parliamentary usages and able to set
forth their views in a logical and interesting
manner. They do not resort to extremes,
nor fall into the ways of the militant women
who have made such a stir in the country
by violating police regulations and exposing
themselves to the penalties of the law.
	The Alliance moves upon legitimate and
lawful lines, and its influence is therefore
spreading throughout the civilized world. It
is presided over by Mrs. Carrie Chapman-
Catt, who on Monday last delivered a most
remarkable address, speaking extemporane-
ously and without notes for an hour, mak-
ing herself distinctly heard in clear, musical
tones which reached to every part of the
great building. The chair was occupied by
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, LL.D., and a number
of distinguished women took prominent
parts in the business meetings and in the
great demonstration held iu the Royal Albert
Hall. The four States in the American Union
in which woman suffrage has been estab-
lished, viz., Wyoming, Utah, Idaho and Co-
lorado, also Australia, New Zealand, Fin-
land and Norway were represented, and the
Isle of Man came in for its share of represen-
tation, the speaker for that rock in the sea
being Mr. Armitage Rigby.
	Utah’s delegates received recognition in
all the courtesies of the occasion, Dr. Roma-
nia B. Penrose being appointed by the Wo-
man’s National Relief Society, of which Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith is president; Mrs. Nel-
lie C. Taylor by the Young Ladies National
M. I. Association, of which Mrs. Martha H.
Tingey is president; and the editor of the
Star representing the Utah Woman Suffrage
Association, of which Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards is president. The proceedings have
been conducted with the best of order, yet
with enthusiasm and vigor.
	The speakers have evinced a determina-


[Column 1]
tion and zeal which show that their hearts
are in the work which they have undertaken
to perform. They ask only for what they
deem to be simple justice. They demand
for women the same rights to vote as are ac-
corded to men; equal pay for equal work re-
gardless of sex, representation to go with
taxation, a voice in the enactment of laws
which they are required to obey. They point
to the great progress that has been made
towards the uplifting of women through the
efforts of the promoters of the Woman Suf-
frage cause, such as the removal of many
disabilities under which women labored not
many years ago. Since that movement be-
gan, the right to hold property once denied
to married women had been obtained, pro-
fessions once entirely closed to women have
been opened to them. These opportunities
for female labor and independence are in-
creasing, and the conviction is fast taking
hold of the minds of thinking people that
the ballot should be an equal right to women
[-]s to men. 
	The peculiar reasoning that opponents of
woman suffrage use when they put women
forward to solicit votes and to employ all
the tactics and methods peculiar to political
movements, was exposed in a striking man-
ner by speakers at the congress, and it does
seem rather singular that political leaders
and applicants for popular favor are willing
to put women forward as political wire-pul-
lers and canvassers, doing the same work in
election schemes and tactics as men do, and
yet vehemently decry their right or privilege
to vote themselves while engaged in getting
votes for others. The so-called arguments
against woman suffrage that have been used
for many decades are still put forth as
though they were of some weight, when they
have been met and exploded with such force
that it would seem they would never be re-
vived again; such as that women cannot
serve as soldiers therefore they should not
be allowed to vote; the man is the head of
the family therefore the woman does not
need the vote, the family is the unit of the
state and the head represents the family,
etc., etc. 
	The same reasoning would shut out the
majority of men from the ballot. There are
millions of men not suitable for soldiers or
for policemen, or for other offices or posi-
tions. If the head of the family is sufficient
to represent the family, then the unmarried
sons, as well as the daughters and the moth-
er, need not and ought not to have the suf-
frage. The truth is that in a representative
government the individual is the unit of the
state, and the same principle by which the
male when of age is entitled to the ballot
would bestow it also upon the female when
of age or having any other similar qualifica-
tions as a citizen. These are among the
arguments used by women of brains and
culture in the great gathering of the Inter-
national Alliance, and they are set forth
calmly, rationally, without violent attacks
upon the male sex, and yet with force com-
ing from settled conviction and a determina-
tion to succeed. 
	The right of women to equal remuneration
for labor with that given to men when it is
as well performed is also maintained with a
logic that carries conviction to an unbiased
mind, and the need for the alleviation of
distressed and oppressed female laborers in
various capacities forms one of the reasons
advanced why woman should have the bal-
lot. With it she becomes a person of con-
sequence to the office-seeker and office-holder
and can exercise a force in the direction of

[Column 2]
legislation to relieve her from the disabili-
ties which oppress her sex and drive many
of them into ways of living that bring dis-
aster to the commonwealth, as well as ruin
to herself. There is no argument used
against giving the suffrage to women that
cannot be turned to act with squal force
upon a large number of men. 
	The equality of the sexes before the law
and in matters of religion has been recogn-
ized in theory and in practice by the Latter-
day Saints, or “Mormons” as they are gener-
ally called. In the Church both sexes stand
on an equality in voting upon all measures
relating to ecclesiastical affairs. This has
been part of the discipline of the Church
from its very beginning. As early as 1870,
the ballot was given to women in the Terri-
tory of Utah. When Utah became a State
in the American Union, her constitution
provided for equal political rights to women
with men. In this Utah has been a pattern
to surrounding States and has afforded a
most complete refutation of the fallacy so
generally accepted that in Utah women were
in bondage to men. 
	The march of civilization cannot be turned
backward. It is moving with steady strides. 
Proofs that the predicted evils to follow
woman suffrage are fallacious are afforded
by actual facts in the countries and states
where equal suffrage has prevailed for many
years, but prejudice dies hard and none are
so blind as those who will not see. Yet, all
error must eventually give way to mighty
truth, and the principle of justice will gradu-
ally bring forth the right and woman will
stand by the side of man, his companion in
all things, sharing with him every right and
privilege and honor and dignity which he
can lawfully hold and use, for the common
good and the uplifting of enlightened human-
ity.							C. W. P.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF LYDIA POND
				RICH.
	I was born October the 9th, 1834, at
Whitestraw, Wiltshire, England, and am
the daughter of Thomas and Ann Garrett
Pond who were of humble birth but strictly
honest and taught their children the same;
my father died when I was about eight years
old leaving my mother with seven children.
I being the youngest of them. In a few
years my mother was married again to a
man by the name of Isaac Pernell and we
moved to his home in Trowbridge, a manu-
facturing little town; they make some of the
best woolen cloth that is made in England.
After awhile I went to work in one of these
factory’s belonging to the firm of Potter and
Heywood, the same firm that my grand-
parents and parents had worked for, they
were weavers and kept others to help them
and when the weaving was done in the fac-
tory by machinery the old faithful ones still
continued to have theirs at home and the
children if they had any that were old
enough to work in the factory had the privi-
lege of going and working at the power
looms, and I was one of that number; it was
there I first heard of the Latter-day Saints.
Another young girl and myself went to their
meeting for a little pastime and we enjoyed
it very much and went quite often till we
became thoroughly convinced of its truth
and in November 1850 we went down into
the waters of baptism; I was only a girl six-
teen years old. My parents belonged to the
Baptist Church, so I had to depend on my
Father in heaven and he never has forsaken
me.

[Column 2]
	Soon after I joined the Church my step-
father died leaving my mother a widow
again. My home was very comfortable; I
could take the Elders home at any time
and leave them with the family, as I had to
go to work early in the morning and I knew
they would be well cared for, as my mother
would never allow bad rumors told in the
home about the Latter-day Saints. She told
us that we should not tell anything we did
not know to be true, and. we could not al-
ways depend on rumor and that home ought
to be the happiest place on earth. Some
time after I joined the Church I became ac-
quainted with a young man by the name of
John H. Rich and our acquaintance soon
ripened into courtship and in 1852 I became
his wife; we were married in the Church of
England, in January, 1853. We left our
home and turned our faces Zionward being
the only ones of our families that were in
the Church. We left Liverpool on the fifth
of February on the ship Jersey; Elder George
Halliday was our president. We arrived in
New Orleans in March being six weeks and
three days on the sea; we went from New
Orleans up the Mississippi River to St. Louis
and stayed there two months. My husband
went to work while we were there to help
get our living and also to get things for our
journey across the plains; many inducements
were held out to us to try and get us to stop
there; but we had started for the gathering
place of the Saints. We went from St. Louis
up the Mississippi River to Council Bluffs;
I shall never forget how the boat grated on
the river bed; and we camped at Kanesville
till the company was ready to start. The
captains name was Moses Daley; while there
a dear sister met with an accident and lost
her foot, it was shot off by her husband who
had been out hunting and was showing the
boys in camp how he lost his game; he pul-
led the wrong trigger and shot his wife in
the leg; she was getting her baby to sleep at
the time; but there was not much sleep in
camp that night; it was quite a trial for us
to leave her; there was an arrangement made
as soon as she was able for her to come on,
but she went back to St. Louis with her
husband, and they came to Utah the next
year and lived in the city for a while, her
name was Emily Halliday.
	In June we started on our journey across
the plains, August 24th, I gave birth to a
baby boy, we named him Franklin John;
we were at that time at what was called the
Black Hills; the company stayed over one
day for me; we arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 29, 1853.
	A few days after we came in, a brother
Thurston came to our wagon and offered us
a home for the winter at his house if my
husband would work for our board which he
agreed to do; we lived in with the family till
April the following year; when we moved
into a log cabin that we had used as our
bedroom during the winter; it was about fif-
teen feet square with no floor or window,
but it was the best they could do for they
had a large family of their own. It was
there I learned to make salt-rising bread; I
also learned to make butter while there,
Sister Thurston was very kind to us and so
were all of the family. In August, 1854, we
moved to the settlement or fort as it was
called; my husband was working days work
for our living and the Lord blessed us in our
labors and we got us a home, it was a log
house, we bought it of Brother Lyman Porter
and we were thankful to be in our own
house; in January, 1855, another son was
born to us, James Thomas. The following


[Column 1]
fall, in October, while my husband was
hauling wood from the mountain he had the
misfortune to break his leg; he was not able
to do any work that winter; we had some
wheat on hand and had it ground and we
sifted the bran and put one fourth bran and
three fourths flour and it made good bread
and by so doing we had enough bread to
last us till my husband was able to work
and during that winter we lost everything,
and had to make a new start. In September,
1857, a son was born to us, William Henry,
and in the spring of 1858 the call came for
the people to leave their homes and move
south; we were among the first ten that left
Centerville; we left our home not knowing
where we were going; we did not have any
team or wagon at that time, but Brother
Rollins, a man, my husband had done a
great deal of work for, offered him a yoke of
steers, and a light wagon, if he would haul
some of his things with ours which he did;
it was not much we had to haul at that
time; we went to Payson and stayed there
till the latter part of June when we returned
to our home again, and the Lord blest us
greatly for the sacrifice that we had made
although it looked rather dark at the time
and the cloud was hanging low, but there
was a silver lining under the cloud.
	October 31st, 1859, a baby girl was born
to gladden our home, her name was Lydia
Millira; in April, 1861, we moved from Cen-
terville to Weber Valley, now Morgan, in
Morgan County; my husband took up some
land and built us another home; we were
among the first settlers; there were many
hardships to endure, but it all gave us an
experience and taught us to be thankful to
our heavenly Father for the blessings we re-
ceive from time to time; in January, 1862,
another little girl was born to us, Louisa
Ann, but she did not stay with us long, not
quite two years and her spirit took its flight
to the better land.
	There are many lessons to be learned in
settling up new countries and in those days
there was not much to do with, making it
all the more difficult to build new homes;
now it is comparatively easy to do what it
was then, a great hardship, one can scarcely
realize it if they have not passed through it
in these days. We were glad to have a
spring seat in a lumber wagon to ride in but
that is almost a thing of the past now and
buggies have taken their place; in 1865 an-
other daughter, Lucy Jane, was born to us.
	In 1868, the Relief Society of Morgan was
organized and I have been a member of it
ever since; for which I am truly thankful,
for it has been a good school for me; it has
taught me to rely on my Father in heaven
for strength to do all things. In March, 1877,
I was chosen President of the Relief Society
of Morgan, and when the stake organization
was effected in 1878, I was chosen President
of the stake and held both offices until 1889
when I asked to be released from being Pre-
sident of Morgan ward; I am still laboring
as President of the Morgan stake. I shall
never forget how I felt when my name was
called out for me to take that responsible po-
sition. When I reached home I said to our
dear sister Eliza R. Snow; I fear I am not
capable of filling that position; she said you
will; and fill it with honor, and those words
have always been strength to me in the hour
of need, and before she went home she blest
me; and it has always been a help to me
with other blessings that I have received
from her and Aunt Zina and many others
who have gone behind the veil not forgetting
the many kind and encouraging words that

[Column 2]
I have received from many of the Sisters
that have visited our conferences; among
them Sisters Jane S. Richards and E. B. Wells,
many words of counsel have they given me
and they have been as land marks while
passing through life. In 1879 my eldest
daughter died leaving a baby girl four days
old, it lived one week and passed away. In
1886, my eldest son died leaving a wife and
six boys, they are all grown up to manhood
and are workers in the Church. I have pas-
sed through many trials; it has given me ex-
periences, that have been as gems by the way
side; and my faith has been increased and I
trust I will be faithful to the truth to the
end of my life.
