Guide Lessons LESSON I. Theology and Testimony First Week in June. The Ready Reference. AIM: Of learning to discover the value of focusing scripture evidence. A compilation of information is extremely useful to students whose memories do not carry necessary passages of notice. and who desire scripture Missionaries compact reference and a students a moment's alike haveat found great value in the study and use of the "Church Compendium," and the "Ready Reference." Both these books contain compiled references on the subject of baptism for the dead, and while our lessons have contained most of these references the students will be repaid by a study of these books. Both of them give a simple, condensed view of the subject of baptism for the dead, and either would serve as a storehouse of information for one who greatly desired the help. The "Ready Reference" introduces the subject with a brief argument, and then carries forward the subject with appropriate quotations. The reference closes with some quotations from contemporary writers and a brief argument in favor of the principle. (From Ready References, page 128.) Note. — Prof. A. Hinderkoper, a German writer, says: "In the second and third centuries every branch and division of the Christian church, so far as their records enable us to judge, believed that Christ preached to the departed spirits." — "Haley's Discrepancies of the Bible." Bishop Alford says: "I understand these words (I Peter , 19) to say that our Lord in his disembodied state, did go to the place of detention of departed spirits, and did there announce his work of redemption;  preach salvation in fact, to the disembodied spirits of those who refused to obey the voice of God when the judgment of the flood was hanging over them." "While there are many professors of theology who attempt to explain away the words of Peter, or deny their evident 
 meaning, there are many others who are willing to admit that they mean what they say. The "Apostles' Creed," so frequently recited by the Church of England, states that Christ after being crucified, dead and buried, "descended into Hell," and the third day rose again from the dead. The third of the thirty-nine articles of religion accepted by all Episcopalians also says: "As Christ died for us, and was buried;  so also is it to be believed, that he went down into hell." Why Christ preached to the dead, though, or how they, not being baptized, could be saved, theologians of the day do not explain;  the idea of a vicarious baptism being performed by the living in their behalf is foreign to their creeds. Even the Romish church, as Bishop Milner in his "End of Religious Controversy," confesses, does not pretend to understand the doctrine of baptism for the dead, which was evidently well understood in Paul's day. "It is not unreasonable to infer that the prayers and penance offered in behalf of the dead by professing Christians during later ages, or other means resorted to for the purpose of redeeming the souls of dead friends from purgatory are perverted relics of the vicarious ordinance incidentally alluded to by Paul, as an argument in favor of the resurrection. The vicarious principle is by no means exceptional in the Gospel. Indeed, it lies at the very foundation of the Christian religion. The Savior did a vicarious work in redeeming mankind from the grave. It was customary also among ancient Israel for the tribe of Levi to engage in ordinances and ceremonies in behalf of the people. The mention of the scapegoat in the sixteenth chapter of Leviticus is another illustration of the same principle. And when the preaching to the spirits in prison is considered in connection with the ordinance of baptism for the dead mentioned by Paul, the vicarious means by which the prison doors are to be opened and salvation extended to those who have died without conforming to the ordinances of the Gospel become apparent. In view of the fact that the ordinance for the benefit of the dead, which existed anciently, had become so entirely lost sight of or changed, and that no person living upon the earth could explain authoritatively what was necessary in this connection, the importance and necessity of revelation upon the subject, such as is promised by Malachi, must be plain to every reasonable mind. — "Ready Reference." "Origen, who lived in the second century, taught a universal restoration, saying that when each sinner shall have received the penalty of his sins, that God will, through Christ, lead the whole universe to one end. Later, this doctrine was condemned by the Church of England, but later again declared not contrary to her teachings. Prominent among the modern English divines who held out hope for the dead was Frederick W. Farrar, dean of Canterbury. He delivered five sermons in Westminster Abbey on 'Eternal Hope,' which have had wide publicity." QUESTIONS. 1. What is the value of focusing references on any given subject? 2. 3. Who Give the prepared table the "Ready Reference," and when? of contents? 4. What can you say of the article on baptism of the dead contained therein? 5. What are we told in the scriptures concerning the spirits in prison and their condition? Note. — It is well for us to inquire somewhat concerning the condition of those who depart this life without an opportunity of receiving the gospel. It is surprising the amount of evidence in the Bible and Doctrine and Covenants concerning this subject, and we recommend the class to read the whole article in the "Ready Reference." LESSON II. Book of Mormon— Bible Testimony First Week in June. SUBJECT: That day when the Book should come forth. TEXT: Isaiah 29:17-18;  Deuteronomy 28:15-68;  1 Kings 8:41, 42, 43;  "Millennial Star," volume 18, page 774;  volume 15, page 788;  "The Holy Land in Geography," volume 1, page 5;  "Popular and Critical Bible Encyclopedia," page 1276;  Zech. 2:1-5. AIM: Or central truth: All things, if we would understand their work together for the accomplishment of God's purposes. That the continuity, of this lesson, as well as the one to follow, may, without too much analytical effort, be perceived, and the stood dift'erent phases of each in their relations subject matter other, this be easily and lesson, under the one to follow, will be based upon the following propositions: 1. That the curse pronounced upon Israel and the Holy Land by Moses as recorded in Deuteronomy, chapter 28, has been fulfilled. 2. That the curse could be removed only by a power and 
 authority equal to or greater than that which invoked the curse. 3. That Solomon must have feared, and had reasons to believe that his people and their rich and fertile land were soon to feel the heavy hand of this curse as is evidenced by the dedicatory prayer of his magnificent and costly temple. (1 Kings 8.) 4. That Solomon in all probability foresaw the means by which the curse should be removed, and the redemption of the Holy Land insured, as is set forth in 1 Kings 8:41, 42, 43. 5. That Palestine, in the year 1841, was visited by Elder Orson Hyde, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, duly commissioned and clothed with authority and power to remove the curse and to dedicate the land for the return of scattered Israel. 6. That, since the dedication, the Holy Land has been and still is preparing for the reception of dispersed Israel. 7. That since the dedication particularly, Judah has been preparing for her return to the Holy Land. 8. That Isaiah specifically foreshadowed the time when the Book should come forth when he says: "Is it not yet a very little while, and Labanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest? And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the Book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness." (Isaiah 29:17, 18. 9. That Ezekiel is in perfect agreement with Isaiah when he foretells the bringing to light of the "Stick of Joseph in the hands of Ephraim," and the time when it should come forth, and the nature of the great event, the gathering of Israel, which should commence with the appearance of the Book. In Deuteronomy 28:15-68, there is recorded certain curses which were pronounced conditionally, by Moses upon the Israelites and their possessions, and also the land, whither they were going to occupy the Land of Palestine, or Canaan, and figuratively designated by Isaiah as Labanon. In verses 23 and 24 of the chapter, particularly, we get some idea of what shall befall the Holy Land because of the transgressions of Israel: "And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass, and the earth that is under thee, shall be iron. The Lord shall make the rain of thy land powder and dust;  from heaven shall it come down upon thee, until thou be destroyed." In other words, Moses gave the Israelites to understand that, if the time should ever come while they dwelt in the Promised Land when they would not hearken unto the voice of the Lord their God, and observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which they had been commanded to observe then, among other great calamities that should come upon them, their land should be turned into a desert;  the heavens would be as brass, refusing to yield the dew and the earlier and later rains for which the land was noted, in consequence of which their land would become as powdered dust and as unproductive and unyielding as though it were iron. Up to the time that Solomon reigned, particularly, the Land of Palestine was to the Israelites a land flowing with milk and honey, so diversified in its surface and climate, and so rich in its soil that it was capable of producing in abundance, practically all the good things of earth. The time came, not suddenly but gradually, when this people forfeited their right to God's blessings. That the curse did weigh heavily upon this land and its unhappy people is evidenced by the following disinterested testimony: "But although the natives, from exasperation against their foreign conquerors and rulers, and the invaders who have so often overruled this scene of ancient blessings, have greatly reduced its prosperity, still I cannot comprehend how, not only scoffers like Voltaire, but early travelers, who doubtless intended to convey the truth, represent Palestine as a natural desert, whose soil never could have been first for profitable cultivation." ("Popular and Critical Bible Encyclopedia," page 1274). "Thus the hills were clad in former times most abundantly, and enriched and beautified with the fig-tree, the olive, and the vine, and it is in this way that the cultivation which survives is still carried on. But when the inhabitants were thinned out, and cultivation abandoned, the terraces fell to decay, and the soil which had collected on them was washed down into the valleys, leaving only the arid rock, bare and desolate. This is the general character of the hills of Judea;  but in some parts they are beautifully wooded, and in others the application of the ancient mode of culture suggests to the traveler how productive the country once was, and how fair the aspect which it offered." ("Popular and Critical Bible Encyclopedia," page 1276). "Palestine was formerly anything but the barren country it now is. In the Negeib (south country), remains of large trees are still found. Jole's description of the products of Edom, where he probably lived, are beyond its present climatic possibilities. Whence the change? Originally covered with forests, on man's advent and the development of the civilization we find recorded on the monuments prior to Israel's 
 occupation nudation commenced. This progressed with extraordinary rapidity during the reign of Solomon. In the times of the Assyrians and after the fall of Jerusalem, its population was deported, irrigation was suspended, the rains falling on unproductive slopes washed the soil down into the valleys, and the hills became bare as today." ("The Holy Land in Geography," volume 1, page 5.) Here we have Palestine, barren and sterile, and its inhabitants these many centuries scattered among all nations. How shall these conditions be changed? How shall Lebanon be delivered from its barrenness and sterility? Not by any authority or power that man may possess in and of himself;  but by an authority and power equal to or greater than the power and authority that was responsible for the imposition of these conditions. About the first thing Jesus did when he entered upon his ministry was to abrogate or rescind the Mosaic law which was in force and which exacted "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth," and supplanted it by the law of love — doing good to them that bore hatred, loving one's neighbor as himself, and loving one another even as Christ had loved, which was to the uttermost. John, although he preceded the Master and prepared the way for his coming and had the power and authority to cry the world to repentance, to baptize those who brought forth fruit for repentance, and to bear witness of him who came after, did not possess the authority to make void the Mosaic law — it took a higher authority. And while good men like Luther, John Wesley and many others of their type, may have had the inclination and the desire to officiate in Palestine's behalf, they were powerless to do so because they lacked the divine commission. Solomon not only feared and had reasons to believe that his people and their rich and fertile land were soon to feel the heavy hand of the curse pronounced by Moses long since, but may he not also have foreseen, with a vision astounding in its clearness, the means by which the curse would eventually be removed and the redemption of the Holy Land assured as is indicated in his dedicatory prayer of his magnificent and costly temple. ( Kings, chapter 8.) This prayer was a long series of pleadings with the God of his fathers, in behalf of his unfortunate people to the end that God would not forget them when their long years of suffering and chastisement should be ended by their humility and repentance. More specifically it was a veritable wrestling with God that he would not turn a deaf ear to the prayers of Israel and that he would have respect for "a stranger, that is not of thy cometh out of a far country for thy name's people sake (for they but Israel, shall hear of thy great name, and of thy strong hand, and of thy stretched out arm; ) when he shall come and pray toward this house;  hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place, and according to all that the stranger calleth to thee for;  that all people of the earth may know thy name, to fear thee, as do thy people Israel;  and that they may know that this house, which I have builded. is called by thy name." The foregoing, some may contend, may be interpreted as applying to "strangers" in a general way. But the thought remains, nevertheless, that Solomon was specific concerning "a stranger" when "he shall come and pray toward this house," and he was just as specific and definite in his supphcation to the Lord, when that event should take place, "and do according to all that the stranger calleth to thee for." Be that as it may, "a stranger," duly commissioned and clothed with the necessary authority, did go to the Holy Land with the fixed purpose and definite mission to pray "toward that house" that the curse which was upon the land might be removed. This stranger came out of "a far country" and was not of the people Israel, but came by the way of the Gentiles. He had received his power and authority from the Prophet of the last dispensation, who. in turn, received it from Moses when the Law Giver of Ancient Israel visited the prophet and delivered to him the keys of the gathering, without which Judah must remain scattered throughout all nations and her ancient land of promise continue to be barren and sterile. On Sunday morning, October 24, 1841, before it was yet day, Orson Hyde, one of the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, went out of the city of Jerusalem, crossed the brook Cedron and went upon the Mount of Olives, and there, in solemn silence, offered up a prayer in behalf of this stricken land and nation. (See April "Relief Society Magazine," 1919.) On the top of Mount Olives, Elder Hyde erected a pile of stones as a witness according to ancient custom. On what was anciently called Mount Zion, where the temple stood, he erected another monument of stones and used the measuring rod as predicted upon his head and in fulfilment of the prophecy contained in Zech. 2:1-5: "I lifted up mine eyes again, and looked, and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand. Then said I, Whither goest thou? And he said unto me. To measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof. And, behold, the angel that talked with me went forth, and another angel went out to meet him, and said unto him: Run. 
 speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as towns without walls for the multitude of men and cattle therein." (Zech. 2:1-5). Note 1. Propositions 6, 7, 8 and 9 will be considered in our next lesson. Note. 2. It will be well to keep in mind that this lesson does not seek to dispose of the subject finally, but should be studied with the thought in mind that the subject will be conclusively embraced in our lessons next fall, and which, therefore, will be a continuation of this lesson. LESSON . Literature (Optional) "The Princess." Our first lesson told us that Tennyson was a past master at writing narrative. "The Princess" is an excellent example of the poet's skill with this important literary form. As this lesson is in course of preparation thirty-five states have ratified the suffrage amendment. When thirtysix shall have ratified the amendment, it will be part of the constitution of the United States. We devoutly hope that when this lesson is given, suffrage will have been obtained and the long struggle be over. In 1847, Tennyson wrote "The Princess," a poem that was regarded as extremely radical at the time. Indeed, Tennyson was heart-broken at the very cold reception it received at its publication. This cold reception, was due. in the main, to the fact that critics and readers of the old school dreaded any thought that advocated in any way the emancipation of women. A very attractive introduction, full of typical English atmosphere, leads to the story proper, which is the story of a princess who obtained her father's consent to use some castles belonging to his realm to found and build a college for women. Ida is the princess. When a mere infant she was betrothed by proxy to a prince of a northern clime. When the day drew nigh that the prince should wed, his father sent ambassadors with gifts to fetch her. The presents brought from Ida's father another present and a vague reply, confessing to the promise, but saying that his daughter had a will. When the prince's father received the letter, he swore, "that he would send a hundred thousand men and bring her in a whirlwind." The prince felt that there must be some mistake in the matter and pleaded to go and see what he might do. He went to the count, there feasted for several days, made his request, and from her father came this reply: "I would you had her, prince, with all my heart," but my daughter "begged a boon a certain summer palace which I have, to found a university." So the prince with two of his companions made up their minds to visit the college. For this purpose they purchased female apparel, and succeeded in this disguse in entering the college. They visited the classes, and for some time concealed their sex with fair success. They have a detailed account of lady Psyche's class and of the instruction given. In the course of her lecture, "dilating on the future," she said: "Everywhere, two heads in council, two beside the hearth. Two in the liberal offices of life. Two plummets dropped for one to sound the abyss." After the evening meal the students who had wondered somewhat from their castle haunts, began to sing for pleasure and for pastime. The princess inquired of the newcomers, "If they knew no song, the true growth of their soil, that gave the manners of their country-women?" Under the spell of her summons, the prince could not recall such a song • but Cyril, one of the prince's companions, began to troll a careless cavern-catch of Moll and Meg, a strange experience unmeet for ladies. The singing developed the secret that the new students were not young women but men. The princess, full of wrath and indignation Then she commanded at the imposition, women tocried out, their mount "Torbeau horses sex." and flee. She was "blind with rage," and when she attempted to cross the water, "missed the plank and rolled into the river." The prince, all gallantry, caught her, as he tells us, "Oar in one arm, and bearing in his left, the weight of all the hopes of half the world." After a severe struggle in the water, he gave her to her maids who with much care revived her and she lived. Then came the prince's father, impatient at such female foolishness, intent on storming the castle and laying bare the land. At his threat of war, the brothers of the princess took arms in their sister's behalf, and the prince was forced to enter in the lists against them. 
 In the combat the prince is wounded, and many others of those who fought. Then the princess throws the doors of the college open and tells the young women of the school to take the wounded and give them every care. The princess asks for permission to nurse the prince, and is at first refused by his father, who thinks she is unsexed and greatly to be feared. Later, he yields, and the princess nurses him through an illness of much delirium, fearing constantly his death. At last the prince roused, and uttered whisperingly: "If you be what I think you, some sweet dream, I would but ask you to fulfil yourself. But if you be that Ida whom I knew, I ask you nothing;  only, if a dream, sweet dream, be perfect, I shall die tonight, stoop down and seem to kiss me ere I die.' "And I believe that in the living world my spirit closed with Ida's at the lips." "I could no more, but lay like one in trance." "Deep in the night I woke, she near me, held a volume of the poets of her land;  there to herseif, all in low tones she read." Then the prince, realizing the things that had inflamed her soul, and all the weight of sorrow that she bore, said to her, "Blame not thyself too much, nor blame too much the sons of men and barbarous laws. These were the rough ways of the world till now. Henceforth thou hast a helper, me, that knows the woman's cause is man's;  they rise or sink together, dwarfed or godlike, bond or free." If she be small, slight matured, miserable, how shall men grow? But work no more alone: "Let her make herself her own." To give or keep, to live and learn and be all that not harms distinctive womanhood. For woman is not undeveloped man. But diverse;  could we make her as the man, sweet love was slain;  his dearest bond is this;  not like to like but like in difference. Yet in the long years liken must they grow. The man be more of woman, she of man. He gain in sweetness and in moral height, nor lose the wrestling the news that throw the world. She, mental breadth, nor fail in childward care, nor lose the childlike in the larger mind;  till at the last she set herself to man. "Like perfect music unto noble words." Then comes the statelier Eden back to men. Then reigns the world's great bridals, chaste and calm;  Then springs the crowning race of humankind. May these things be? Sighing she spoke, "I fear they will not!" Dear, but let us type them now in our own lives. Again she spoke — "A dream that once was mine! What woman taught you this?" The prince answers her by telling her all his life he has had such ideas. His last words to her are "My bride, my wife, my life." O, we will walk this world yoked in all exercise of noble end, and so through those dark gates across the wild that no man knows. Indeed, I love thee;  come, yield thyself up;  my hopes and thine are one, accomplish thou my manhood and thyself. "Lav thy sweet hands in mine and trust to me. "This poem is noted for its wonderful songs or lyrics. "Sweet and Low," "Blow Bugle," and "Tears, Idle Tears," are lyrics of the vey) highest order. During the early days of the fight made for suffrage in Great Britain, speakers very frequently made use of lines from "The Princess" in their addresses, but before the struggle was over they came to feel that "The Princess" was too mild and conservative for their purpose, so the poem fell into disuse on the suffrage platform. Nevertheless, it is only fair to say, that no matter how conservative some may think the poem is at this date, it is true that Tennyson was one of the very first men of consequence in Great Britain who asked that women be given extended privileges, whose voice was raised for their emancipation. Many of the lines, both in the narrative and in the lyrics, are most exquisite;  they are literary gems of a very high order. Note that these lines, while they carry on the narrative, are also replete with disappointment: But Ida, with a voice that, like a bell tolled by an earthquake in a trembling tower, rang ruin, answered full of grief and scorn. A lyric must be pronounced in its musical quality. Note the musical effect and the beauty of the imagery, in these lines taken from Tennyson's wonderful lyric: "The splendor falls on castle walls, And snowy summits old in story;  And the long light shakes across the lakes. And the wild cataract leaps in glory;  Blow, bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying, Blow, bugle, answer echoes, dying, dying, dying. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. L Have "Sweet and Low" and "Blow Bugle" sung during the meeting*. If that is not possible, have some good 
 reader, read them to the class. It will be easier to have "Sweet and Low" sung than "Blow Bugle." 2. How many years is it since Tennyson published "The Prince ss?" • 3. How many years since the women of Utah first voted? 4. What western commonwealth began its history the year of the publication of "The Princess?" 5. Has the civilized world pretty generally realized Ida's dream in the matter of opening colleges to women? 6. Are men and women co-operating in the world's work more in these latter days than formerly? 7. Do you think the Relief Society has broadened woman's sphere? If so, tell why, and give examples. 8. Ida loved Psyche's body;  read lines 175 to 179 in section six of "The Princess." 9. What three references are made to flowers in this passage? Tennyson was a keen observer of nature. Some of his critics say he never made a mistake in his reference to nature. 10. Beginning with lines 239, section seven, we have the prince's of plan think it? for righting woman's wrongs, what do you We wish that the lesson might inspire the reading of the poem at home, as these lessons permit only a brief outline of so long a lesson, LESSON IV. (Required.) Social Service Fourth Week in May. HEALTH. (School Lunches.) The Lunch at Home. The child whose school is so located as to admit of his going home to lunch every day is indeed fortunate, particularly so if the older members of the family can be at home also, as the middle of the day is thought to be the best time for the family dinner. But even if the older members of the family must be away it is still advantageous for the little ones to lunch at home since it gives an opportunity for the warm lunch so essential to the best nourishment of the child. A single warm dish is sufficient, provided it be a nourishing one, and is supplemented by bread and butter and fruit or Other simple dessert. Suitable dishes are the cream soups,