["And This Is Life Eternal" by Harold B. Lee]

'And This Is Life Eternal!" Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve HE subject heading for this written article are words quoted from the sublime prayer of the Master, a prayer such as only he could utter. 'This prayer is appropriately referred to as the Lord's High Priestly prayer or the great intercessory prayer just prior to his betrayal, trial, and crucifixion. The words of that prayer which give meaning to the words quoted above are as follows: "... Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee: As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent" (John 17:1-3). In these words, Jesus declares the Father as the source of his own power and authority to give to others of our Father's children this precious gift of eternal life even to as many as pass the test of worthiness to be numbered as sons and daughters of God.
Some explanations and definitions from Bible scholars might be helpful in considering the meaning of the words of that scripture.
Explanation of Verse 2: At the incarnation, the Father gave the Son authority to die for the sins of the whole world and to proclaim the Father's gracious offer of salvation to all mankind. 'Those whom the Father gives to Christ are those who freely accept the Page 222 offer of salvation which is freely made to all.
Explanation of Verse 3: Eternal life consists in obtaining a knowledge of God and of Jesus as. The Messiah sent from God, i. E., as a preexistent divine being.
Knowledge here is not intellectual knowledge, but knowledge based upon the religious experience of the devout Christian soul (Bible Commentary—Dummelow). (Italics are the author's. ) What is that knowledge of God and Jesus Christ which is essential to eternal life, and how might it be obtained? In some _ inspired items of instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, April 2, 1843, he declared that: Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (D. & C. 130:18-19).
From this statement have come two sayings which are often misinterpreted and misunderstood. One of these is a partial quotation from a revelation of the Lord: "The glory of God is intelligence," and the other, a coined expression from the above quotation, "A man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge."
These sayings have led some to suppose that these references relate more particularly to secular knowledge rather than to "knowledge based upon the religious experience "AND THIS IS LIFE ETERNAL!" of the devout Christian soul'—to use the words of the Bible scholar in the Commentary above referred to. The Prophet Joseph Smith has clarified the meaning of this essential knowledge which saves, by saying: The principle of knowledge is the principle of salvation.
This principle can be comprehended by the faithful and diligent; and every one that does not obtain knowledge sufficient to be saved will be condemned. The principle of salvation is given us through the knowledge of Jesus Christ....
Knowledge through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is the grand key that unlocks the glories and mysteries of the kingdom of heaven (D. H. C, V, pp. 387, 389). And again: A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge, he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth. Hence, it needs revelation to assist us, and give us knowledge of the things of God (D. H. C. IV, page 588). NE of the prime reasons for the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ is to give light and knowledge to the world; to the end that all might be saved. The restored gospel in this dispensation was to be a "light unto the world and a standard to my people" that they might seek to it, even as it was in the days of the Apostle Paul who declared a purpose of the organization established by the Master with prophets and apostles at its head to be "for the edifying of the body of Christ: Till we all come in 223 the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man" (Ephesians 4:12-13). It is a significant fact in every age when men have begun to apostatize from the truth that the sure knowledge of God and his Son begins to fade and the Supreme Being comes to be spoken of as a myth. To the mind darkened by sin and apostasy, God becomes merely a universal essence such as ether or electricity, without form and void, and "who sits on the top of a topless throne, large enough to fill the universe and yet small enough to dwell in one's heart." 'To those in darkness, likewise, the Son of God, even Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world is but a great teacher among men, shorn of his divine nature.
Evidences of similar spiritual decline are seen in our midst today when we hear teachings to the effect that "man makes his own god, who changes with the times and with the cultural and intellectual development possessed by the man creating him that the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and of Moses and of the Israel of the time of Moses and later, is not the God of the Christian world, not the God of today, but that now we have another, a more humane God, one of love and mercy." (See On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.) This dispensation of the fulness of times, as with all other dispensations, was ushered in by mighty revelations of the character, reality, and the personality of the Father and the Son. 'These divine personages presented themselves by personal visitation to the Prophet of 224 this dispensation.