[Unwrapping the Cancer Enigma by Wm. H. Kalis, Jr.]

Unwrapping the Cancer Enigma Wm. H. Kalis, Jr.
Prepared under the direction of the American Cancer Society N a darkened motion picture projection room this year, your family doctor will see a film that may help save the life of your wife or your mother or sister. The film will be "About Cancer: the problem of Early Diagnosis." It's an example of how the American Cancer Society is attempting to penetrate the riddle of cancer.
Early detection is the keynote of the society's program to inform the public of cancer's warning signals and to educate general practitioners in recognizing those signs. The point that the Society makes is that while advanced cancer is nearly always fatal, early cancer is one of the most curable of all diseases.
Cancer is the most pressing medical problem of our time because its cause is not known. We do know that it starts when one of the millions of cells that comprise the human body becomes an outlaw and attacks its neighbors. The nation's leading research scientists are hard at work seeking the key to the cancer mystery. In Philadelphia a woman scientist discloses that she has found fungi in every human and animal tumor she has examined over a period of eighteen months. Are almost invisible plants a factor in cancer? A team of scientists and _physicians in New York discovers that the new and extremely scarce hormones, ACTH and cortisone, cause some types of cancer to regress. In New Orleans famed surgeon Dr. Alton Ochsner, who is ACS president, continues to provide useful years of life for lung cancer patients by employing new methods of radical surgery.
Until sixteen years ago lung cancer was conceded to be 100 per cent fatal. In addition to supporting research and education, the Cancer Society carries on... A program of service to cancer patients. All of these programs are made possible by generous contributions made by the public each April during the ACS annual fund-raising campaign.
Cancer control starts with the individual.
Every man and woman should have a complete physical examination each year.
Women over forty should be examined twice a year Remember that early discovery means quick recovery. And don't forget this: Cancer can strike anyone. But you can strike back by giving generously to the 1950
Cancer Crusade of the American Cancer Society.  A