[A Chaperon for Miss Farry by Pansye H. Powell]

Chaperon for Miss Fanny Pansye H. Powell ISS Fanny awoke at five M o'clock. Her alarm clock on the table by the bed did not ring; it didn't need to, for Miss Fanny was always awake at five, winter and summer. For a few minutes Miss Fanny lay watching the light coming through the lace curtains at her east bedroom window. It was going to be another bright, hot July day, she could tell. No robins chirping outside, no soft morning breeze gently pushing the curtains back and forth, could deceive her.
After sixty years in one house, she was an astute weather prophet.
This would be another Missouri "scorcher 7? The curl papers that fringed Miss Fanny's round, pleasant face shook merrily as she sat up in bed and looked around her bedroom absentmindedly. Miss Fanny's bedroom was like Miss Fanny—old-fashioned, neat, and spinsterish.
Everything in it was older than Miss Fanny herself—the rag carpet that stretched from wall to wall, the walnut stand, with the marble basin, the highboy, the walnut four-poster. But Miss Fanny was not noticing all the heirloom setting in which she had awakened. Her thoughts were where they had gone when she first awakened—to John, her hired hand. She could hear John down in the _ kitchen, stirring up a brisk fire in the iron cookstove Miss Fanny still used. She knew that when she had  dressed and gone downstairs, John would be out doing the milking, but the fire would be just right for frying ham and eggs, and the oven just the right temperature for the hot biscuits Miss Fanny made for breakfast every morning.
John loved biscuits, with fresh butter and honey, or some of the strawberry preserves that won the blue ribbon for Miss Fanny every year at the county fair. In spite of all this comforting knowledge that the day had started in customary fashion, Miss Fanny frowned at her reflection in the long gilt-framed mirror.
Dressing methodically, like one whose thoughts were very far away indeed, she slipped on a starched green and white checked gingham dress that reached below her boot tops and a big red coverall apron. She was ready for the day. Her curl papers remained as they were, but a snow white cap was slipped over them, and her rosy round face appeared under the ruffle of the cap as though she hadn't a care in the world. However, the frown still hung on, and her blue eyes did not sparkle as they usually did. How, she kept thinking, how can I tell John today that I've decided to let Julie and Ralph live with me when they are married?
What will John do if I tell him I won't need him any longer to work for me?
After all, he's been here over twenty years, first working for Pa and then for me after Pa and Ma died. It just don't seem right somehow to A CHAPERON FOR MISS FANNY tell him, to explain that I won't need him any mote. Finally, Miss Fanny bustled down the stairs, and soon she had ham sizzling on the stove.
Biscuits went into the oven, and a clean spread on the kitchen table by the window. But Miss Fanny did not set a place for her niece Julie this morning, for Julie had left even before Miss Fanny was awake. 'Today Julie was going home to try on her wedding dress and help her mother with the finishing of it. Miss Fanny carefully set John's place and then stood for a moment looking at the plate. I won't tell him at breakfast, she concluded to herself, better to wait until noon. I'll think over this morning what Pll say. Vve already told Julie and Ralph what I've decided. I'll have to tell John today. Her thoughts were interrupted by the sound of John's steps on the walk outside her screened-in back porch.
While he strained the milk and set it to cool on the porch, she dished up breakfast.
John splashed at the washpan on the porch and soon appeared in the doorway, ready to eat. He was a thin, graying man, a little older than Miss Fanny. His sunburned face had a healthy glow, and his brown eyes were honest and friendly. "Come on, John,' Miss Fanny said in a cheerful voice, "everything is ready.' F'TER they were seated, Miss Fanny said grace for the meal.
This had been her customary action during the fifteen years since she had been mistress here. At the death of her father, who 261 had outlived her mother by five years, Miss Fanny's brothers and sisters had tried to convince her that she should rent or sell the place and move to town or else live with one of them on his farm. But Miss Fanny had independently declared that she did not want to live anywhere else. So her brother Fred had insisted on sending his oldest son to live with Miss Fanny. And, after the boy grew up and married, another nephew had lived under Miss Fanny's roof. Then, finally, Julie had come, and now she seemed like a daughter to Miss Fanny. It was right for her to have the farm and right for her husband to manage it, even though, in a way, it seemed that the fields belonged to John. For, as the years had gone by, Miss Fanny's farm produced good crops. 'I'wice she raised John's wages, although he didn't ask for more money.
John had never mentioned leaving, and Miss Fanny believed he was happy, living there in a comfortable home with an assured income. She thought she knew how much she had depended upon him, but now it seemed best to let him go, with Ralph coming to 'manage things.
Ralph would farm the land on a share-crop plan. 'They would keep her as long as she lived. It was all very clear in her mind, except for one thing.
What would become of John? You couldn't expect John, after so many years, and at his age, to find another good job. All this Miss Fanny thought as she and John companionably ate biscuits and ham and discussed the day's activities.
John spoke slowly, almost drawl- 262 ing his words with an unexpected care in diction, "Maybe I'd better cut those weeds in the west pasture," he suggested. "They're getting kinda tall." Miss Fanny agreed. One thing about John that she especially liked was that he never let things go. His harness was kept oiled, his machinery was put out of sight in sheds when it was not in use, his pasture fences and road margins were clear of high weeds. All this he did without being told, but he always asked Miss Fanny's permission, as though he were unwilling to assume authority. It was going to be hard to get along without John here to plan and oversee the necessary work.
Ralph wouldn't be too sure of himself to start. "Will you drive Daisy and Bell on the mower?" Miss Fanny asked.
Daisy and Bell were the oldest horses, always dependable. "T thought I might try the young ones this time," John ventured. "They're working into things pretty well.
Might as well get 'em used to all the farm work." "Be careful," Miss Fanny cautioned. " 'Course I know you will be," she added immediately. "You're always careful. If I had a dollar for every accident you've had on this farm, I couldn't even buy a sack of flour." The telephone rang just then and Miss Fanny took down the receiver from the old-fashioned box on the wall. A fresh young voice answered her hello. "Hello, Aunt Fanny!
This is Julie. We're getting along fine. I'll be home soon!"  - "Thanks, dear!" "Tl be on my way! "Bye now." OHN finished his breakfast during this brief conversation and now excused himself. Miss Fanny bustled around to do her dishes and her beds before Julie got back. She meant to make some yellow tomato preserves today.
Julie could help. She and Julie had done a lot of canning and preserving together this summer. Julie's wedding was to be in August, and Miss Fanny was enjoying the preparations as much as Julie's own mother, who lived only two miles away. As she hurried through the morning work, Miss Fanny couldn't get John out of her mind. She remembered hundreds of little errands he had done to save her steps—trips to the cave for bottled fruit or meat, churnings he had done on bad days when he couldn't get out to work at the barn, trips to find her turkeys when they strayed, times he mowed the lawn to save her the weary job. He couldn't have been more help if he had belonged here, she thought. Fiddlesticks, she scolded herself, get downstairs and get to work, Fanny Grover.
Mooning around because you're going to have to tell John he can't work here any more! | _ By the time Julie arrived Miss Fanny had brought up jars and lids from the cave where she stored such supplies, had dressed a chicken for dinner, and put it to cool, had a big pot of green beans on the stove slowly cooking, and had taken down her curl papers and combed her hair neatly, straight A CHAPERON FOR MISS FANNY back from her forehead, with a big bun at the nape of her neck.
Julie found her on the cool screened porch, surrounded by pans of ripe yellow tomatoes, and cheerfully working away at preparing them for the stove. "Yoo-hoo!
Julie called, her young voice a cheerful disturber of the warm summer morning. "Yoo-hoo!"" Miss Fanny answered. "T'm on the back porch, Julie." Miss Fannie loved Julie.
There was something so real, so young, so fresh about her. The old house seemed to shake itself and breathe more freely with Julie there. Now Miss Fanny looked up smilingly as the petite brunette appeared at the corner of the house.
Julie wasted no time getting down to business with the yellow tomatoes. She was a worker, Julie was, and she would be a capable farmer's wife. Now she chatted gaily as the pile of tomatoes in the preserving pan rapidly climbed. "Aunt Fanny, we almost finished my wedding dress today.
Just a little handwork left.
Then you can see it all done.
Ralph is counting so much on coming here to live. I hope you won't be sorry after he's here." "T won't be Julie. I've thought it all out for a long time. I'm not getting any younger, you know, and I want you to have this place when I'm gone, so why not start your marriage here? I've got some plans. Maybe I'll take a long trip. I've never been out of this State, except that time you and Carrie took me to Colorado for two weeks." "T do hope you will, Aunt Fanny. You deserve some good times. 263
You've nothing to hold you here, really. When Ralph gets here, you can be freer to go than you've ever been in your life." Miss Fanny piled tomatoes deftly for awhile in silence.
Over in the west pasture she could hear the steady whir of the mowing machine, punctuated now and then by John's voice saying, "Steady, there! Whoa! Giddap!" Finally, Miss Fanny asked, "Have you. And Ralph set the day for sure?" "Yes, August eighteenth for sure. We decided last night. We're going to drive to Yosemite and Banff for our honeymoon. But, Aunt Fanny, have you told John yet?" "No-o," Miss Fanny hesitated. "I hate to tell him. But I'll tell him at noon, sure." es came in at one-thirty for lunch, full of praise for the young team that he had been working. "They're the best young team that I've ever worked," he said, as he helped himself to fried chicken. "A little bit skittish, but not near what Daisy and Bell were when they first went to work.
Work together fine." "Good," Miss Fanny - said. "Course you're a good hand with teams, John. Pa always said a team's like its master, good or bad, nervous or placid, and I guess he knew." In her mind Miss Fanny was readying her speach to John. Let him finish his cherry pie, she thought, no use breaking such news in the middle of a good dinner. Then, as she saw the last bite of flaky crust disappear, she spoke, try- 264 ing to be casual: "John, you know we're going to have a wedding in the family."
This was no news to John.
Julie had shown him her ring three months ago. Now Julie dimpled happily, and John smiled at her. "T figured that was going to happen," he said, his gentle brown eyes looking directly at Miss Fanny's embarrassed face. He knew she had more to say than this. "T've been thinking, John, and I've decided to let Julie and Ralph live with me. He can farm for me, and we'll divide the crops." John's eyes did not leave Miss Fanny's face while she was speaking.
Then he asked, "But you— what are you going to do?" Miss Fanny did not fail to note anxiety in his voice. He was worrying about her, not about himself. "Oh, I'll live here, too," she said lightly. "Thought I might take a trip for a while.
Need to get away, and September would be a good time to travel. After Julie and Ralph get back from their honeymoon, I might go to California for a few weeks." "Well, that's mighty fine for you, I do declare. Well—when did you plan to be through with me?" Miss Fanny was somewhat taken back by his matter-of-fact tone, but she managed to say, "Julie and Ralph are going to be married on August eighteenth. 'They're going on a trip for two weeks, and they'll be back about the first of September. By then we ought to have things ready for Ralph to take over.", | —_— She wanted to ask him to stay until then to help her, but she  didn't have the courage to suggest it.
John spoke at once, however: "Then you'll need me until about September first. I'll stay until they get back." "Oh, thank you, John." Miss Fanny's relief was sincere. She had put off the day of John's going, and perhaps by then he would be able to find another job. She spoke again: "Of course, John, I'll be glad to try to help you find another place." He looked up at her, but said nothing. Miss Fanny dropped her eyes.
After all, what hope did she have of finding any place for him that would compare with this one? She felt for the first time that her plans were selfish.
After dinner Miss Fanny and Julie washed the dishes, put the preserves on to cook, and sterilized the jars. 'They could hear the mower now along the road where John was cutting weeds on the banks. The whir of the machine sounded now close at hand, now more at a distance, as he carefully clipped the offending plants. "You know, Aunt Fanny," Julie said once, while they were pouring the thick sweet preserves into clean jars, "you ought to have married. How come you never got married?" ISS Fanny was not a bit nonplussed by the question. Her answer came quickly and without rancor. "Well, Julie, dear, the fact is—I never was asked!" The chuckle that followed indicated that she had never worried about it. "But you're so kind and sort of— well, motherly.
Mother says you A CHAPERON FOR MISS FANNY were very pretty when you were young. You're nice looking now," Julie hastened to add, "but mother said you were slender and liked to dance and skate. It's too bad somebody didn't take you when dad took mother. You just stayed on here with grandmother and grandfather, and you ought to have had a family of your own." Julie's voice trailed off into indistinctness, as she carried a load of sealed preserve jars to a shelf on the porch to cool. But Miss Fanny wasn't listening to Julie, anyway. She was listening to the odd change that had come in the mowing machine rumble. It had suddenly accelerated and had become a clatter. She could hear horses' hoofs pounding the hard surface of the dirt road. "Julie," Miss Fanny called, "the team! It's running away!" She was running toward the front of the house as she called.
Through the open door she could see a cloud of dust hanging over the road. She could hear the sounds of hoofs and machine dwindling in the distance. Was John on the machine? John, good, faithful John, was he being carried to death by that fear-maddened young team? Miss Fanny started down the front steps to look after the vanishing team, but her eye lighted on an inert form lying on the edge of the road, not far from the house. "Julie," she called to her niece, who was not far behind her, "get Doctor Welch quick! John's hurt!" Miss Fanny ran across the lawn, her skirts held high out of her way, and across the road to that strangely quiet figure lying on the bank. Old car. 265 'John, John," she called, kneeling beside the unconscious form.
Blood was streaming from a cut on John's forehead. One arm lay grotesquely bent under him. Miss Fanny, with no thought of her appearance, ripped a wide band from the bottom of her white petticoat.
Yards and yards of material came off and were bandaged tightly over the bleeding wourd in John's forehead.
John made no sound and lay quiescent as Miss Fanny and Julie gently carried him across the road to the shelter of a maple tree in the yard.
Julie ran into the house for cold water as Miss Fanny eased John's position as best she could with pillows from the front porch | chairs. ' "John, John," she kept calling, but John made no response until Julie had washed his face with the cool water and held Miss Fanny's smelling salts under his nose.
When his eyelids quivered and a deep sigh came from his throat, Miss Fanny unashamedly cried, "Thank God. He isn't dead,' and wiped big tears away from her cheeks. Doctor Welch rattled up in his By this time John was conscious and suffering silently from the wounded arm. Doctor Welch, thin, wiry, and matter-of-fact, soon had a new, authentic bandage to replace Miss Fanny's extemporized one, and then set about the business of repairing the broken arm.
With only Miss Fanny and Julie to help him, and with his patient lying on the ground under the maple tree, Doctor Welch did an expert job of setting the broken arm and placing it in splints. All this John bore without outcry. Miss Fanny 266 moved dexterously at Doctor Welch's bidding, and John's eyes followed her ceaselessly. By the time the doctor had the patient easy and ready for sleep, Julie's father and mother were there, summoned by Julie.
John was placed on a cot and carried carefully into Miss Fanny's seldom-used downstairs parlor bedroom. Miss Fanny's brother dashed off then to follow the wayward horses, and John went to sleep, restful under Doctor Welch's opiate. Mss Fanny sat down beside the bed, her eyes never wavering from John's face.
Lying there swathed in bandages, he looked so helpless, so dependent, so—so— Miss Fanny did not want to think the word, it seemed so immodest under the circumstances—so lovable! Why had she never felt this way before about John? Why had she not more fully realized how likable, how devoted, how wonderful John was until today! Now maybe he had a bad concussion, maybe worse.
Maybe he'd have a blood clot or something. Miss Fanny did not realize it, but she was falling in love.
Suddenly the figure on the bed moved. 'The one eye that could open, the other being covered with the bandage, looked full into Miss Fanny's face. The lips that showed only partially under the bandage smiled, and John's good arm moved out toward Miss Fanny's hand lying on her knee. Miss Fanny sat in helpless silence as John's strong fingers pressed hers. A voice came out from the midst  of the white gauze: right?" | This was too much for Miss Fanny.
Such consideration for her when he lay there injured was too overpowering for even Miss Fanny's stolid sixty years. She wept unashamedly and managed to say between sobs, "Oh John! Are you all right?" "Sure," the muffled voice continued. "I'm all right. Where's the team?" "Fred's gone for it. Charlie Jones phoned and said they ran in at his gate and stopped—worn out. They're all right. Don't try to talk, John." "Must say," the voice in the gauze went on, "don't worry about how Pil do. I got money saved. Brother Sam's been trying to get me to be his partner for five years.
Good business, hardware store." "Five years," Miss Fanny ejaculated. "You could go into the hardware business and you've been staying on with me! Why on earth didn't you go?" John's good eye looked Miss Fanny straight in the face. "You needed me. Now that Julie's husband will be coming, I'll go." All this time John's hand had lain over Miss Fanny's. Now he did a strange thing. He lifted her hand and carefully raised it to his lips. 'Through gauze and tape, Miss Fanny felt the caress, warm on the palm of her hand, and she was happy—so happy she wasn't even conscious of how it happened that she was kneeling by the bed and her head was lying by John's and tears were streaming down her face as she said, "John, you won't have to "Are you all A CHAPERON FOR MISS FANNY go. We'll work it out somehow.
Maybe we can live in town near your brother.
Maybe we'll stay on here with Julie and Ralph. But you're not going away from me, ever—ever"' They were so absorbed in each other and the new-found wonder of love that Julie's mother cleared her throat three times before Miss Fanny realized they were not alone. She tied on her bonnet as she briskly said, "Fred and I are going now, 267 you won't need us tonight. The tomato preserves are all in jars.
Look very pretty, too. I'll say goodbye now. I'll call in the morning and come over if you need me." Miss Fanny suddenly realized what was happening. "Oh," she gasped, scrambling to her feet, "oh, of course, but Julie must stay." Then Miss Fanny knew that she was blushing like a young girl, and, for the first time in her life, she sensed the propriety of having a chaperon. Aie Renewal Grace Sayre Beauty renews itself each spring. See where the patched hillside, Mottled with the brown stain of loam, Shows through the melting snow. And see the streams assert themselves!
Willow catkins fluff, Trailing arbutus opens its fragile pink trumpet, Fragrance lies in the throat of the lily; Dogwood branches hold out their pure flame - Of green and white beauty, Lighting the roads and wooded paths; Beauty renews itself in the land.
Spring is here, -~ > Diamonds Katie Harris Lewis April is the month of diamonds, I can see them as I pass, After every April shower, Diamond stickpins in the grass. On each weeping willow finger, | Shadows slip a diamond ring, And on every April flower, Place a birthstone from the spring. Nothing So Lowly Margaret T. Goff The storm-pools in the hollows Look heaven in the face, While glory is reflected By the most commonplace. For nothing is so lowly Upon this earth of ours But ever is revealing The touch of higher powers.
Save the lNlagazines Cleopha ]. Jensen He' grateful mothers are at housecleaning time for the willing help of daughters with some of the heavier tasks! But these same lovely daughters, whose more limited experiences in life have not taught them to fully value or properly appreciate some of mother's hoarded relics, are sometimes bent on ferreting out and discarding from every corner what to them is only "old trash." "There will soon be a salvage paper drive," my daughters explained. '"This will be our chance," they said, "to rid mother's attic store of all those old papers and magazines!" I was rather reluctant to remonstrate—really I appreciated their helpfulness, but somehow I felt there were too many precious memories tied up in some of those old boxes of magazines just to be "junked." I kept a furtive eye on the several bales as they were carried out, and at length I spied the one box that I knew contained the last twelve volumes of my beloved Relief Society Magazine. Not that box! I winced, but refrained from any comment. However, I kept a careful eye on that particular box and, unobserved, I found my opportunity to rescue my treasure before the salvage truck arrived.
With the strength born of an emergency, I was able to tug the box back to the house, and there I again hid it away in the farthest dark corner of my stair closet—for safe keeping, all the while joyfully contemplating the time when I should bring it forth again and relive some of the pleasure and inspiration I had enjoyed in the past.
That time came during the long evenings of this past winter.
What a thrilling adventure was mince! JI lost myself for hours at a time as I brought forth from my box of Magazines one volume at a time, and again thumbed through each Magazine.
Some articles, especially checked, had been so dear to me. Now I selected and carefully clipped out each article I wished most to preserve. 'These were stapled separately, marked on the margin with date of the Magazine and the volume from which each was taken. The clippings, of course, included those particular articles which had held special interest and inspiration to me personally. I realized I could not keep all that I should like to, for soon I had a large stack of clippings.
Then came my problem of how to file them for keeping. I was fortunate in finding a nice loose-leaf ring binder the exact size of the Magazine.
With the aid of a paper punch, I could very nicely fit them into the binders. I then began to sort and classify my material under various headings and I now am assembling several scrapbook volumes of most precious and valuable reading for future reference and enjoyment. My first complete volume contains all the lesson outlines and notes of the past twelve years of literature study, that being my special department. I shall call' one voulme "Literature Lights."
This contains material relating to good literature, selective reading, and literature standards.
Another scrapbook volume, which I shall inscribe "My Inspiration," contains the many special articles Page 268 269