[Notes From the Field: Regulations Governing the Submittal of Material]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD" See also Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, page 123
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer (All notes and photographs are to be submitted through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. ) TS section of the Magazine is reserved for narrative reports and pictures of Relief Society activities in the stakes and missions. Its purpose is threefold: (1) to provide a medium for the exchange of ideas and methods for conducting Relief Society work which have proved successful in some organizations and which may be helpful and stimulating to others; (2) to recognize outstanding or unique accomplishments of Relief Society organizations; (3) to note the progress of Relief Society work in various parts of the world. It is recognized that personal accounts of individuals who have long served Relief Society, or who have otherwise distinguished themselves, are always of great - interest, but the space available for "'Notes From the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for reports on the work of the organization rather than that of individuals.
Wards and branches desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes From the Field" are requested to send them through the stake or mission presidents. It often happens that one or two wards or branches in a stake or mission will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide or mission-wide basis, and, in such instances, it would be to the advantage of the stake or mission to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine, with all participating wards or branches represented.
Reports and photographs should be submitted as promptly as possible after the events described have taken place in order that they may be published while the activities are still of current interest.
Where narrative reports are submitted, with or without accompanying photographs, the name of the stake and ward, or mission and branch, should be given together with the title of the activity reported, the date, and other pertinent data, including the name, address, and position of the person making the report.
Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction.
Black and white glossy prints reproduce most satisfactorily.
Pictures should have the following information written clearly on the back: Name of stake and ward, or mission and branch Title of picture, stating the activity represented or the purpose of meeting of the group Date picture was taken Name, address, and position in Relief Society of person submitting the picture | Identification of persons in the picture should be made on the reverse side.
Names should be given from left to right, written clearly, and spelled correctly. The given names of the women should be used, not their husbands' names (for instance, Sarah D. Erickson, not Mrs. James Erickson). The positions of the executive officers: president, counselors, and secretary-treasurer should always be listed with their names.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 279 If the photograph has reference to some particular activity, such as sewing, visiting teaching, etc., the name of the leader and her position should also be listed.
Material submitted for '"Notes From the Field'"' should be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society, 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.