Christmas in Old Mexico By Luacine Savage Clark
THOSE of us who spend our holidays in the States where Christmas is ushered in with snow flying and the merry jingling of bells, have no idea what problems must confront dear old Santa Claus in sunny Mexico, where snow is never seen only on the dizzy peaks of old volcanoes.
In the first place, he would not need his sleigh—the eight tiny reindeer that prance and paw on our roof-tops would find plenty of space on the flat roofs of Mexico, but poor Santa could not find a chimney large enough to admit his rotund little body if he spent the night searching, for fire places in the houses are almost unknown. What a lot of scheming he did—but being the wise old Philosopher he is, he just hearkened back to the first Christmas long ago, when the shepherds watched their flocks under summer skies, and the first gifts were carried on the backs of three camels guided by a Star.
At any rate the Christmas gifts to the little folks of Mexico are said to be brought to them by the Three Kings, who journey on camels, only these do not arrive until the 6th of January. I am sure to our little ones this would seem a very long time to wait for presents, but these little folks begin their fun days before we do, and are kept so busy they do not have time to worry about anything.
Nine days before Christmas they begin the Posadas, as they are called in Spanish. Posada means an inn or lodging house, and the nine parties or Posadas are all symbolical of the efforts of Joseph and Mary to find a resting place for the night. At the time that the decree went forth from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed, the Virgin Mary and Joseph went from Galilee to Bethlehem to be inscribed for taxation, but they found every place full, so were unable to find lodging. They were forced to wander around nine days without finding a place to stay in any house or tavern, but on the ninth day they finally found shelter in a manger where the Savior was born.
We were fortunate enough last Christmas eve to be invited to the home of an aristocratic old Mexican family on the ninth and last night of these interesting Posadas. We were told to be there at eight o'clock. Being Americans, we of course arrived on time—to find we were the only guests present. We were warmly greeted by two of the daughters and the father, a courtly old gentleman of the old school, all of whom spoke excellent English. Indeed, all of the old families of Mexico are equally at home speaking English, French, or Spanish. The family spirit is very strong; all parties usually include the entire family from the tiny babe to the grandparents.
On this evening, from time to time different members of the family would arrive, each one going first to the father, kissing him on both cheeks, and then shaking hands with the rest of the family or guests who were seated around the room. At ten o'clock, the mother came from upstairs; she was received with great ceremony by the thirty members of her large family, children and grandchildren who had finally arrived. Then the fun began.
The house was one of many facing on a court. Each person present was given a lighted candle; then we all went outside. We were told to form in line by twos and to march down the court. The host and his family who led the procession were singing or chanting a song telling of the trials Joseph and Mary had gone through begging for shelter day after day. As we marched, we stopped at each door, but no one would let us in. However, by the time the ninth door was reached, it was thrown wide open, and we were admitted. Joseph and Mary had at last found shelter.
This night we call Christmas eve is called in Spanish Noche Buena, or good night. The song ends by singing praises to Mary and shouting hosannas to the king of the heavens who has come on earth to rule and reign.
By this time, ten o'clock, we were all hungry and ready for the feast spread before us in the long dining room. All the courses, and there were many, were cooked in Mexican style. There were eight different kinds of tamales, a drink made from cereals with a terribly long Spanish name that tasted like our old-fashioned gruels of long ago, turkey, meats of all kinds, a delicious pink drink made from the Jamaica plant that tastes like lemonade, pies, tarts of all shapes and sizes, and lastly dulces, or candy, as we call it.
After this delicious meal we were ushered outside again, where we saw a large jar hanging from a wire stretched across the court. It was gayly dressed in red and green tissue paper until it looked like a huge tropical bird poised in the air. We were told that this is called a pinata, and that each person present was to be blindfolded and try to hit it. There was great excitement among the younger ones, as each was blindfolded RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and handed the stick. To us standing in the rear, it looked a very simple matter, as the jar hung low and the stick was long. But as the person began to strike, the pinata was instantly raised as if by magic high out of reach, so of course the stick failed to do its duty. This continued until each one had a trial. When the last one tried, the magic left, the pinata remained in its place —the force of the stick broke the jar, and fruit, candy, nuts, goodies of all kinds were scattered over the court, and were quickly seized by the young ones present. Some of the children were eating lemons as if they were apples. I asked how they could stand the acid, and found the lemons are very sweet, so this was just another of the surprises one finds in romantic Old Mexico.
By this time, all the clocks in the steeples were striking twelve, and we began our buenas noches, but we were told a program was still to come, so back we went into the Sala, or parlor. The Grandfather, our host, who was well over sixty and the father of this great family, sat down to the piano and played several selections from the old masters, besides some of his own compositions.
As we had two tiny stockings to fill at home besides six larger ones to complete our own Christmas preparations, we succeeded in saying our final Adios and hastened home. When I opened my door, saw the Christmas tree shining in all its splendor, watched our good old-fashioned Santa Claus filling the different stockings, I wondered. While I couldn't say that our way is best it did bring to us more of the sweet memories of the Christmases where snow flies, and Santa comes with his sleigh and reindeer and, dropping down each chimney, leaves his gifts of good cheer and love for all.

