Bringing Home Christmas By Lois V. Hales
"The time draws near the birth of Christ: The moon is hid; the night is still; The Christmas bells from hill to hill Answer each other in the mist."
CHRISTMAS is the rarest, the strangest, the most popular festival of the year. The word Christmas is no older than the twelfth century but from time immemorial, under different names and at different times this festival has been celebrated. Its spirit triumphs over all obstacles; breaks down all barriers; flourishes in all countries and in all hearts. For the spirit of Christmas fulfills the greatest hunger of mankind.
Elements pagan and Christian, gay and grave, mystical and matter-of-fact, historical and legendary, all blended together make our modern Christmas. The green garlands, the marvelous tree, the mystic fire and lights, the spirit of giving and receiving, and customs many which still cluster about this big midwinter feast descend to us from the pagan childhood of the race. Happy are they who know and garnish with ancient tradition this glorious holiday; for they are precisely those who enter abundantly into the kingdom of Christmas.
Is there really anyone so dead in heart, so blind to the sunshine of happiness that he doesn't enter wholeheartedly into this day? "If so, gone for him are the simplest, finest, sweetest, most precious things in life. Gone for him is the spirit of youth and all the 'olden, golden glory of the days gone by'."
Immemorial tradition has now irrevocably rooted the Holy Nativity in the heart of the cold and dark season of the year. As John Milton wrote, so the world is content to think:
"It was the winter wild, While the heaven-born child All meanly wrapt in The rude manger lies."
In early days different dates and significance were attributed to the Nativity. There were even those who did not believe that Christ was born divine. To them Christmas was the commemoration of the spiritual birth of Christ, at the age of thirty, when a voice from heaven said, "Thou art my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased." However, about the middle of the fourth century, December 25th was set aside by the Church in Rome for the observance of the physical birth of Christ.
At first it was a purely spiritual festival. It was a fast of the senses, and a feast of the soul. But through contact with the festive environments in which it grew up it has become material, happy and merry, ruddy and lusty; though never to the exclusion of reverent remembrance of Him who came to bless and save mankind.
Today we make the children happy in His name; we gather our friends about us as He loved to gather His, and share our bread and meat with them. The things of the mind concern us little on this day. It is the heartbeat that counts on Christmas. The same words are in every heart all over the world—peace, joy, good will to all men.
To those who doubt the day and its message Edwin Arlington Robinson says—
"Though other saviors have in older lore A legend, and for older gods have died— Though death may wear the crown it always wore, And ignorance be still the sword of pride— Something is here that was not here before, And strangely has not yet been crucified."
The customs surrounding Christmas are deeply rooted in tradition. The use of evergreens at Christmas had its roots in the profound reverence of the ancients for all natural phenomena. To them nature was everywhere alive. The garlands were carried indoors because with them came a blessing and they were never used for decorative purposes in early days. Holly, ivy, mistletoe and rosemary became entwined about this festive day for various reasons. Holly wreaths, ivy, and mistletoe were hung in the home because of their protective and curative virtues. Kissing under the mistletoe may have grown out of the "Kiss of peace," which was practiced in the ancient Church, in token of the divine embrace of man in Christ, which made of believers one loving household of faith. Rosemary was used because of its insinuating perfume which released in the mind "long forgotten trains of thought."
The tree, in its modern form, with its dazzling lights, shining fruits and glistening fillets, was slow in coming, and was the growth of centuries. Very likely it came to be associated with Christmas through the legend which told how, on the night in which Christ was born, all the trees in the forest, despite snow and ice, blossomed and bore fruit. At first blossoming trees were used. The transition from the trees of natural bloom to those artificially decorated was made in Germany through Martin Luther.
Today the Christmas tree in our homes is a symbol of Christ, as the Tree of Life who offers freely to all His gifts of light and life and wisdom.
Christmas Eve was the most hallowed night in all the year. The Yule Log burned on the hearth waiting for that moment of the Savior's birth when a great calm ensued, and Nature paused in reverent adoration. The log was kept burning through the twelve days of Christmas and its light was sacramental. It was a symbol of Christ as the light of the world. Thrice happy is the home that possesses an open hearth for a burning hearth fire is the living symbol of all the warm emotions and bright thoughts appropriate at Christmas time.
Charity to the poor was an essential element of Christmas. St. Nicholas, who grew out of a celebrated bishop who gave away his money secretly to the poor—particularly the young poor, became Santa Claus in the United States at the time of the Dutch settlers. Today he has recrossed the ocean and "gained many adherents all the way from gloomy Scotland to sunny Australia. Santa Claus is the bright and ruddy incarnation of the Christmas spirit, whose dissolution is no more to be desired than the star-spangled figure of Uncle Sam."
Christmas bells are the crowning glory of Christmas. They reiterate the songs of the angels. A widespread custom in early days was to ring the bells at midnight on Christmas Eve—at the exact moment of Christ's birth. Coincident with His birth Satan was supposed to sicken and die. "The great bell was tolled for an hour before midnight, as it might have been for any person who was dying. This was known as the Old Lad's Passing Bell, Old Lad being a popular nickname for the Devil."
In America today bells are with us more in symbol than in reality. But great changes are imminent. Church bells are notably on the increase and it will soon be possible to listen to the tones of Great Tom of Lincoln, Peter of York, the chimes of Old Trinity, and many others. Then old and young may say with John Keble—
"Wake me tonight, my mother dear, That I may hear The Christmas Bells, so soft and clear, To high and low glad tidings tell, How God the Father loved us well."
Yes, Christmas is the rarest, the strangest, the most popular festival of the year. Above everything it is Christ-mas. The Christ-child, and not the tree, nor the stocking, nor even Santa Claus, make it Christmas. And when all is said and done you might just as well try to "explain Christmas as the secret of a growing flower, the witchery of a laughing child," or "the love that casteth out fear."
"Strange that one simple story Should rush across the years, And blind us with its beauty, And hush our deepest fears."

