The Spiritual Life of the Children By Matilda Peterson S a person looks out of the A north windows of our beautiful State Capitol, she has but to lift her eyes, and there, only a mile or so away, she sees a massive rock profile on the lofty mountain slope west of Ensign Peak. This majestic formation has, through the work of mother nature's playfulness, been thrown together in such a position as to resemble the features of a human countenance. In gazing upward at the structure planned by mother nature, one readily compares it to the "Great Stone Face" in the narrative written by our noted American Author, Nathanael Hawthorne. And what was the Great Stone Face? Hawthorne describes it as. An enormous giant, or a Titan, who had sculptured his own likeness on a mountain which helped to inclose a spacious valley containing many thousand inhabitants. There was the broad arch of the forehead; a hundred feet in height; the nose with its long bridge; and the vast lips, which, if they could have spoken would have rolled their thunderous accents from one end of the valley to the other. It was an inspiration for the children to have the Great Stone Face before their eyes, for all the features were noble, and the expression was ' grand, yet sweet. A mother and her little son sat at the cottage door gazing and talking about the Great Stone Face. The lad came to love it, and loving it grew to be like it. Here the author gives us a picture of a boy growing up under the influence of high ideals. Such is always the results of companionship with the great and good, and the story with its underlying allegory is an incentive, not only to the young, to seek that which is noble, but to those who are responsible for the training of the young, to see that right environment is provided for their charges. This brings us to the home, the school, and the church鍟hree great institutions which have to do with the shaping of the child's future. Each of these institutions has its contributions to make. But it is in cooperative endeavor that they should bring to bear upon the child's life the very best they have that will develop the finest character in the child. Both parents and teachers are agreed that the true aim of education is character. So today we are hearing a great deal about character building through religious education. In order that we may know something of what the leaders in the great educational profession are doing, something of the problems which are considered most vital in the development of child nature, the writer brings to readers of this magazine a few of the outstanding features of the Deparment of Superintendence and allied organizations of the National Education Association held in Detroit, Michigan, the third week of February, 1931. The theme, in general, of this great meeting was that of character education, or training for citizenship. Perhaps never before in the history of the organization was the 696 spiritual life of the child given so much prominence. "Education and religion belong together. In the development of the highest type of character, religion is necessary. Therefore, the place of religion in education is of supreme importance. It is the business of the schools to teach morals, but it is the work of the church to teach religion. We are coming increasingly to see that religion is a vital element in human experience; that in the motivating of conduct and in the determining of character there is no greater force. This being so, religion cannot be disregarded in the process of education. We can not survive as a people unless we develop spiritually." One of the most impressive and inspiriational sessions of the Convention was the Sunday Vesper Service. Upon this occasion, the noted theologian, Dr. Lynn Harold Hough, addressed the assembly upon the spiritual life of the children. Space does not permit a detailed report of this wonderful sermon. A few excerpts, however, are given below: "A child must learn that the universe is friendly. He must come to know that it can be trusted. He must learn that truth and loyalty and love belong to the ultimate structure of things. And all this must be said in words which he can understand. If he heard young communists in Russia talking of the importance of finding cosmic support, he would not at all understand what they meant. But if he were told of a good and friendly Father of the human family he would understand quite well." "There are clouds and storms in the child's sky as well as in the sky of maturity. And as soon as a curious boy begins to question he is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ready for the thought of the Great Friend, the Giver of all, who brings good out of evil and makes that which is good even better than it is. The spiritual life is the constant fellowship of good thoughts. At its highest it is fellowship with good thoughts made personal as they shine upon us from the face of God. Children are quite capable of seeing and understanding that face. Coming back to our illustration of the "Great Stone Face", we are reminded again of the author, who once said, "Children can understand anything but hypocrisy." And it is at least true that children can respond to a noble spiritual interpretation of life. The "Great Stone Face" typifies this thought. In the narrative we discern that solidarity, permanence, fortitude, strength, stability, and many other noble characteristics influenced the boy's life until he reached his goal. Such a foundation must be built for the children of the present day. Perhaps there is no better way to establish this strong hold than through religious training. Recognition of the need for such preparation is evident. In the section of "Religious Education" of the Convention, Supt. F. M. Shelton of Springfield, Ohio, said this: "The fact that a majority of our boys and girls have been receiving no religious training has been a matter of concern to many thinking people. A number of plans have been tried to correct this situation. The most widely adopted is that of week day religious instruction on 'released time'. In general, the testimony of public school principals and teachers is to the effect that the pupils who attend the weekly religious instruction stand as high THE SPIRITUAL LIFE OF THE 'CHILDREN in their school work as those who are not enrolled. They cite many specific cases both of individuals and classes in which the religious instruction received has manifested itself in higher moral standards of thinking and acting." Much depends upon parents and teachers. Is it not incumbent upon us, that instead of "Growing up we grow down into perpetual understanding of childhood". The person who does that will be surprised: to find the still depths of spiritual 697 perceptiveness which lie waiting to be stirred far below the surface of the life of a child. Of course, she will not find maturity, but she will find the tiny seeds from which maturity grows. Let us then plant such seeds that will reap a harvest likened to the character of the "Great Stone Face." "Think truly and thy thoughts Shall the world's famine feed; Speak truly, and each word of thine Shall be a fruitful seed; Live truly, and thy life shall be A great and noble creed."
