How to Teach the Gospel at Home Address Delivered at Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1931 By Elder Joseph Fielding Smith
THERE never was a time in the history of the Church when we have been surrounded by so many evils, temptations and conditions that allure and entice the children of Zion from paths of righteousness as we find today. It behooves each one of us to be on the alert, and constantly keep in mind the fact that we belong to the Church, and the Lord has given unto us the fulness of the Gospel with all its promises, and that it depends upon our faithfulness and our obedience and integrity to these principles of truth and to the Church whether or not we reap the blessings.
The Lord, in an early day, had to rebuke some of the leading elders of the Church, because conditions were not as they ought to be in their homes. I wonder if most of us would not receive a like rebuke if the Lord should speak again in like manner.
In the 93rd Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord says, "But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth." All through these revelations we find this instruction that the parents are to bring up their children, to teach them in light and truth.
In another section, 68, the Lord says that if parents do not teach their children so that they will understand the principle of baptism, and teach them to pray, and to have faith in the principles of the Gospel, when they reach the age of accountability—8 years—that He will hold those parents responsible, and if their children, through lack of training, should grow up in ignorance of the truth, and deny the faith, that He will require it at the hands of their parents. So you see we all have a very grave responsibility.
The Lord said on this occasion to the elders: "But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth; But verily I say unto you, my servant Frederick G. Williams, you have continued under this condemnation; You have not taught your children light and truth according to the commandments, and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction."
We sometimes wonder why we have affliction. We wonder why we do not have the best of health. From this which I have read we may very properly infer that affliction sometimes comes upon us because we ourselves are not faithful in the performance of duty, and in keeping the commandments of the Lord.
"And now a commandment I give unto you if you will be delivered, you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house.
"Verily, I say unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, that in some things he hath not kept the commandments concerning his children; therefore, firstly set in order thy house.
"Verily, I say unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., in other words, I will call you friends, for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me.
"I called you servants for the world's sake, and ye are their servants for my sake;
"And now, verily, I say unto Joseph Smith, Jun., you have not kept the commandments, and must needs stand rebuked before the Lord.
"Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place."
That is just as binding upon us as it was upon these men who are here named. Although we are not mentioned, I may properly take that revelation to myself, and say it applies to me. You may apply it to yourselves, and say that the Lord has commanded me, has commanded you, and all of us, to bring up our children in light and truth.
What light and truth? If you will read this revelation through you will find what light and truth is. Our great Mutual organization has adopted as a motto "The Glory of God is Intelligence," and sometimes I have regretted that they stopped there. We have been teaching the people everywhere that the glory of God is intelligence and quitting in the middle of a sentence, and perhaps getting some misunderstanding out of it. But the Lord continues and says "or in other words light and truth." So, if we bring up our children in light and truth they will not be so much troubled with that evil one, because light and truth forsake him, and he has no place with light and truth. So that is a commandment that applies today, and is just as binding upon the parents in Israel now as it was when it was uttered one year after the organization of the Church.
In the 6th chapter of Deuteronomy, we have the word of the Lord as it was given to ancient Israel before the Lord would permit them to cross the river to possess their inheritance in the promised land.
"Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments, which the Lord your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go to possess it:
"That thou mightest fear the Lord thy God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son, all the days of thy life; and that thy days may be prolonged.
"Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily, as the Lord God of thy fathers hath promised thee, in the land that floweth with milk and honey.
"Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord:
"And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might.
"And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart;
"And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.
"And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.
"And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates.
"And it shall be, when the Lord thy God shall have brought thee into the land which he sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give thee great and goodly cities, which thou buildest not.
"And houses full of all good things, which thou filledst not, and wells digged, which thou diggest not, vineyards and olive trees, which thou plantedst not; when thou shalt have eaten and be full;
"Then beware lest thou forget the Lord, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
"Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, and serve him, and shalt swear by his name."
That was the word of the Lord to those people. The Lord was particular to tell them that they were to write it on the door posts; that they were to teach it morning, noon, and night; when they sat down in the house, at bed time, at rising time, as they walked forth they were to teach to each other, to their children, these things that Moses, by the inspiration of the Lord, told unto them that day.
Why all of this? Why keep it that constantly before them? Because you know that when we are constantly reminded of a thing we do not forget it. It is easy to forget anything if it is only heard occasionally, but here these things were to be placed before them so they would see them, so they would hear them all day long, every day, that they were to keep the commandments of the Lord. Is not that needed today, just as much as it was then? And is not modern Israel today following in the footsteps of ancient Israel?
We came into these valleys for one purpose. What was it? The primary purpose was to serve the Lord, to keep his commandments, to worship Him in spirit and truth without interference, according to the dictates of our conscience. That was the object which President Young taught the people; the elders taught it, and they were filled with the spirit of faith, and they guided the people, but as time went on other elements were developed; others came among us, other influences, and see what is the condition today.
We are outnumbered by people who love money, who are not a God fearing people, they are people who love this world, the things of this world, the pleasures of this world, the wealth of this world, and their minds are set upon getting it, and we are following very largely in their footsteps to the displeasure of our Father in Heaven.
I am reminded of the commandment of the Lord given anciently, and also in this dispensation in regard to what shall be done in our homes, and I ought to have read another verse, in which the Lord says, in regard to the children of one man, that they should be more concerned in regard to home. Home was not attractive, and so the Lord said unto this man that his children should be more concerned about the things of home. Are our children concerned about the things of home today? They must go here, they must go there, they have this to do, they are not interested so much in staying home; and that is largely true of parents.
Oh what is a home without the spirit of prayer? It is not a Latter-day Saint home. We should pray; we ought not to let a morning pass without thanking the Lord on our knees in the family circle, thanking Him for His blessings and asking for His guidance. We should not let the night pass away, should not retire until we have assembled the members of that family again and thanked the Lord for His protection, and asked for His guidance every day of our lives.
I go into homes where I am sure there is not the spirit of prayer—and good homes, that is, the homes of people who consider themselves pretty good Latter-day Saints. I travel up and down through these stakes with the rest of the brethren. I was staying at the home of a very good man, a man holding a prominent position in the Church. I was invited to stay at his home, and that night before we sat down to the evening meal all the chairs were turned around the table with the backs to the table. I knew what it meant—it meant prayer. We cannot fool a child. They could fool me, if I had gone there into that home and had seen that sort of thing, and they had invited me to kneel in prayer, and nothing had been said, I would have gone away with the impression that this was a custom in that house. But one little fellow in that home said, "Father what are you doing with all the chairs turned that way?" Well, if you think that was not a very embarrassing moment in that house, I assure you it was. What did I discover? That was not the custom, that was done because I was there, not because God was there. They did not place those chairs around that table for Him, nor in the spirit of worshiping Him, but because I had been invited into that home. I do not like people to honor me more than they honor my Father in Heaven.
I have seen other cases, but I just mention this to you. Isn't it a glorious thing in the home, when you come to the morning meal, when every child, and everybody there understands that the chairs are to be turned and we are to get on our knees and thank our Father in Heaven, and ask for His blessings. I have been in homes where they did not ask a blessing upon the food. Then at night, the same thing. I am pleased to say we do that in our home, and always have. I have a little neighbor boy whose parents are in the Church—a "Mormon" family—part at least. Sometimes he comes in our house just as we are ready to sit down to the table, and we all kneel and he looks at us in astonishment. We ask him to kneel with us, and he shakes his head, and does not know what it means. I know what it means—it means that that young boy is going to grow up without faith, and perhaps to be a menace in this community or wherever he goes, that is what it means. So we should have the spirit of prayer.
Let me call your attention to another thing. I think that perhaps fasting, that is true fasting, is one of the greatest things in this Church. We are taught by the Authorities in this Church that fasting should be from the evening meal until the evening meal the next day, and that Fast Sunday should be observed in the spirit of fasting and prayer—who does it? Ask yourselves that question. Now we are making it easy. We are making it easy in many parts of the Church by making the Fast Meeting a part of the Sunday School, and then the people go home to eat, and the rest of the day what are they doing? If you know you know more than I do—but they are not fasting.
Now in practically every home today we have radios. We get all kinds of music and speeches—everything over the radio. Are we particular at all as to what we listen to? I know even in my own home, some of the children question and wonder why I take the attitude I do. It is an understood rule in our house that when a tobacco program comes on, the radio goes off, or they can turn it to some other station. But sometimes one of the members of my family will say, "Well Dad, what is wrong with the music, it is good music." That is all right, it may be good music, but I am not going to support or sustain a program coming from such a source as that in my house.
One of the influences in the home that leads to faith and prayer and proper religious understanding is to have in the home the standard works of the Church, not hidden, but where they can be found, on a table or some place where they are in evidence and can be referred to, where they will be seen, and then the members of the family ought to be invited from time to time to read them. I go into homes sometimes where they do not have these things. I always like to know, when I go into anybody's home and they have books, what kind of books they have. If I have been in some of your homes you know that. I take a look at the books you have, and find out what it is that you are reading. I am glad to say that in the majority of the houses I find books that can be approved. We ought to have the standard works of the Church, and we ought to encourage the reading of them.
We should be as careful about the music we have in the home, and where we have those who are musically inclined we should encourage it; but there are so many things I would like to say that I shall have to hurry on.
I want to say something about Sunday and its observance. If you ever see me out in an automobile on Sunday on the streets of this city, or anywhere else, I want you to understand it that I am going to fill an appointment, and I am not going out for amusement. On the Sabbath Day, unless we have somewhere to go, that automobile stays untouched. No joy riding, running here and there, unless it is something where duty calls; because I think that the automobile, the enticement of it, is one thing that is drawing the people away from their duties in the home and in the Church on the Sabbath Day.
Not so many years ago in this Church the meeting that was the best attended on good days like this was the Sunday afternoon meeting. It is still so in some parts, out in the country districts, but you go into the larger centers and this is no longer true. I know, because we have the reports. Where are the people? Not at meeting—not at home. Allured by good weather, sunshine, pleasant conditions, in automobiles to do that contrary to what the Lord has commanded them to do, and that is not bringing up children in the spirit of light and truth. And then, Sunday has become a holiday, not a holy day. Even among Latter-day Saints it is not observed, and the Lord is not pleased with us.
I have said these things, and I might say a great many more. In our homes do we talk before our children and criticize the Bishop of the ward, or the President of the stake, or one of the General Authorities? Do we say things in their presence which ought not to be said? Do we make slighting remarks about the principles of the Gospel? If we do we are not bringing up our children in light and truth. Are we guilty of these little slight offenses in the home, and have been trying to teach our children to do something other than we do ourselves? If we do we are making a failure of it.
In other words, to be frank, and I must not say much about the Word of Wisdom, do you teach your children that they must not drink tea and coffee, and then you do it yourselves? Do the fathers use tobacco, and then try and train their boys not to use it? It does not work, you cannot teach one thing and do another. Example is the way we teach the Gospel.
Do you play cards? I have been criticized very severely because I have said that members of the Church ought not to play cards. I was informed just a day ago that I had offended a whole stake of Zion because I said that they should not play cards, and yet what I said was what the President of the stake had asked me to say, because it was a growing evil in his stake. Do you play cards—do you do it in your home? Do you sit down with your children and teach them to play Bridge, or some other game (I do not know the names of the games)? Do you do that? If so you are not bringing up your children in light and truth, and you are not walking in it yourselves.
I do not want to go into this matter and argue it, but good reasons can be given. I will give just one, and that is that the President of the Church said in the tabernacle about eighteen months ago in the conference of the Church, and pleaded with these people, and asked them to cease playing cards. He repeated it again later, and he was only asking you and all the members of the Church to do just what his predecessors, since the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, have said and requested us to do. That is all. If anyone takes offense because I called attention to it, I am sorry. Do you do that in your homes? If you are doing it you are teaching your children by example, and perhaps by precept, to disregard the counsels of the Authorities of the Church, the ones who have the right to speak. It is a disease, card playing. If you are doing that you are not bringing up your family in light and truth, and the Gospel of Jesus Christ cannot be in your homes because the spirit of the Lord is not going to be with me or you if we do not hearken to the counsel of the Priesthood when they speak by inspiration to the Lord. Who should be offended at what I have said? And yet people go away sometimes offended when I talk like this, and say it is none of my business whether they play cards or not. Perhaps not—I am only giving advice and counsel.
Our duty is to set proper examples. I know families where the parents wonder why it is their children turn away and are disobedient, and will not walk in light and truth. I know why. It is because the parents themselves have set them the example. They themselves have not been faithful. Do your children go to the Sacrament service? Yes, if you do, very likely. If you do not, why of course they do not. They do what you do, they follow you. To the little child his father is the most perfect being in the world—and his mother also. Oh, if we could only keep them thinking that, but they grow up, and when they get old enough to begin to reason things out for themselves, then they see that we are two-sided—that we have one face for the public and one for him, and we destroy forever his confidence in us, and his confidence in the world. That is what we do.
How many of you parents go to the picture shows on Sunday and take your children? I do not suppose anyone here does, but there are those who do it. I travel around in the stakes, and when the conference is through, and I can get a train home on Sunday night, I come home, because there are so many things to do, and if I can get home on the train I do not think the Lord is going to find fault with me for doing so, but I get on these trains in the summer time and when we stop at Lagoon I see fathers and mothers with their lunch baskets and their children. Some of them I recognize are members of the Church. Are they bringing up their children in light and truth? Are they going to have the spirit of the gospel in their hearts, or are they going to turn away from the truth? I know just what is going to happen, and who is responsible, and who is going to answer for it—the parents.
I do not want to speak of myself, but I believe in teaching this Gospel by example, and I do try to set it in my home. If the members of my family do not follow, it is not because I have not set the example—I assure you of that.
I have talked longer than I had a right. The Lord bless you, my sisters. Think these things over, and you set the example; build up and strengthen the members of the Church in faith in God; goodness knows we need it. There are so many influences at work to divide us asunder, right among the members of the Church, and there is going to come, one of these days in the near future a separation of the wheat from the tares, and we are either wheat or tares. We are going to be on one side or the other. Think it over. The Lord bless you. I appreciate this opportunity. I have a great deal of regard and admiration for this organization, I think it is wonderful—the work you are doing. There is nothing like it in the world. May the Lord be with you I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

