The Green Chair By Vesta Pierce Crawford
WITH Edna it was a case of love at first sight. The green chair stood modestly in a clutter of elaborate mohairs and velours. It was a medium-sized, well built piece of furniture, soft green, with a small design in sand-colored threads. Edna thought of the front room in her house with the tan and rose rug her father had given her and the new wall paper that harmonized with the rug. The chair would match beautifully.
She ran her slender fingers over the material. It was a new fabric, not tapestry, but a more attractive and durable modification. At the clerk's invitation, Edna sank down luxuriously into the cushioned depths. She sat there and thought how desperately she needed the chair. The front part of the house was a combination parlor and dining room, and there wasn't anything in it but some very necessary second-hand articles, a shabby table, and one leather-seated, uncomfortable rocking chair which was the only approach to elegance. But this new chair set in her room with the rose and tan wall paper and the tan marquisette curtains—this chair would transform the place!
Almost breathlessly she found herself going into the credit office. She would have to buy the chair on time as she had bought the bedroom set and the washing machine. When the pen was in her hand, just before she signed the contract she thought about John. He hadn't wanted her to buy any living room furniture. Still he had said that the household budget allowance was hers to distribute as she thought best. Edna thought it best to buy the chair. She could save the payments out of the budget, and all the time while she was paying for it the chair would stand in her house regally. She would say when friends came, "Try this chair. It is very comfortable!" And they would exclaim, "What a lovely chair! What beautiful material!" And she would smile and be ever so proud of this one and only bright spot in the bare room. How she would smile.
But what about John? She had told him that she had decided to buy a chair before Katherine came to visit. Katherine was her very best friend. She lived a thousand miles away and Edna had not seen her in seven years. She must have the green chair for Katherine to sit in. If she did that the chair would have to be purchased before John came home. He was in the mountains vacationing with the Boy Scouts. It didn't matter anyway. No one could fail to like the chair. And the budget would pay for it.
"Here," said the clerk. The small hand that for seven years had kept John's house wrote in small upstanding letters, "Mrs. John Harrington." Three dollars a month would pay for the chair and it would be delivered Friday. Saturday Katherine would come.
All the way home on the street car and all that day Edna thought about the chair and decided to put it in the corner between the window and the fireplace so that it would be the very first thing seen when the door was opened. Perhaps then, the guests, looking at the chair, would not notice the utter bareness of the other part of the room.
Friday the chair was delivered and it was even more wonderful than it had appeared in the store. Blending in with the wall paper and curtains, it was lovely. When the sunlight fell across the sand-colored threads nothing could be more charming. Katherine would be the very first guest to sit in it. Katherine, who had tramped with Edna on early morning hikes when the College biology class went out to see the birds; Katherine who had helped her make a pink taffeta dress for the Junior Prom; Katherine who had sat with her on winter evenings, after school-teaching days, sewing fine linen things for hope chests.
And then it all seemed as if it were not seven years ago at all, for Katherine stood in the doorway, her blue eyes shining. She was wearing a blue crepe dress and a blue felt hat. Katherine, the very Katherine of the old days.
"You look just the same," she said, critically surveying Edna's slim small form, her black eyes and unruly blonde hair. "You haven't changed a day."
"Oh, but I have. You should see my boys! Two of them and they are terrors! Charles! Johnnie!" she called at the back door.
"Sit here, Katherine, in this green chair."
"Cozy! What a comfortable chair, and just beautiful, too," Katherine said, sinking down into the cushions. "Your home is just lovely!"
After a moment Katherine went back out to the car. "My girls must see your boys. It won't take them long to get acquainted."
When Edna told Katherine that John was away for the week, she immediately suggested that Edna and the boys go with her to her mother's house and visit there until John returned. It would be so satisfying. No household cares for either of them. There was a flutter of preparation, rompers to fold and stockings to collect, fat little bodies to bathe and shoes and shirts to fasten. Katherine's blue-eyed girls, shy and eager, waited for the boys to get ready.
Edna patted the green chair just before she locked the door. On the dressing table in the bedroom was a note for John saying that they would all be back before he was expected. She didn't mention the green chair, but at the end of the note she wrote, "With love, Edna."
The days slipped by swiftly, filled with canyon rides and hours of reminiscing, when Katherine and Edna, sprawled comfortably on the cool porch, tried to imagine that they were girls again. Almost oblivious to the children playing on the lawn, the mothers talked about school examinations and "dates" made under the campus trees.
On Friday Edna went home. Followed by the youngsters, she walked up to the front door and unlocked it. Then she stood still in astonishment. The green chair had vanished. It wasn't there! Frantically she ran through the other rooms. There was no green chair. Someone had stolen it! Dumb with amazement, she sank down on the creaky old couch and tried to realize the situation. The chair was stolen. But that was impossible. Burglars did not steal chairs. Imagine a burglar carrying out a chair and escaping in the night. It wasn't possible. No burglar had taken the chair. In an instant of sickening dread she knew what really had happened. John had come home and he had sent the chair back to the store. She cried out as if someone had struck her. "He had no right!" The boys stood by with wonder in their eyes. Mama was crying. Only bad little boys cried, or frightened little girls. Not grown-up mamas.
"Go outdoors to the sandpile and don't come in until I call you," she managed to say, pushing them out in confusion.
Back down on the couch she sobbed. "He had no right!" Her head whirled with strange jumping thoughts. He hadn't wanted her to buy furniture. He had said that they would have to wait until the depression was over, until his work was more sure. But he had said that the household budget was hers. Hers. And again she sobbed, "He had no right!"
There was a step on the porch. John had come home early and had been to work that day. In an instant he would open the door. What would she say? It was beyond endurance.
John opened the door. There was only cold surprise in his face as a red-eyed, tumble-haired wife approached and barred the way, her small figure tense, all composure gone.
"The chair!" she cried, "the chair!"
John took off his hat with aggravating deliberation. He was very collected.
"I sent the chair back to the store. You can't use my name to run in debt."
"But I've bought on time before. Why is this sudden change in policy. The budget was mine. You had no right!"
She was furious.
"I didn't want you to buy furniture and you knew it. You cannot run bills without my consent."
Cruel! Imperious beyond measure. It was not endurable. Edna flung herself into the bedroom and locked the door. No man had a right to do such things. She would take her boys and leave. Then she looked out of the window. There they were in the sandpile and their father with them. Baby Charles was on his back, a bucket of sand in each outstretched hand. Johnnie cried in wild delight, "Giddap horsie, giddap!" Starved for their father, they were.
Edna passed a red hand over her face. She could pack up and go but she couldn't take the boys. One could endure hard things for two fine boys.
"I'll stop crying," she said. "I won't say any more about it. The children must not know."
In the days that followed Edna wavered between grief and resentment at the loss of the chair and a burning new resolve that she would possess it again. John was very considerate. He sprayed the roses and pruned the cherry trees and put screens on all the windows. He called Edna his "bonnie blonde belle." And once he talked to her seriously about the chair and said that they couldn't run in debt any more because times were hard and he might lose his work any time. One couldn't risk having his name blackened because he couldn't pay his bills. Edna could buy the green chair when she had saved enough from the budget.
By that time the chair would be gone, she thought bitterly, for it would take more than a year of ordinary saving to buy it. Another whole year when already for seven years she had been mistress of a house that contained not one comfortable chair.
How she wanted that chair! The determination hardened. She would have it by Christmas time. She would not take chances on waiting a year for it. Christmas was six months away. By then she intended to have the chair. But how?
She stretched the budget in every possible way. She burned less coal, bought cheaper cuts of meat, and forgot to varnish the kitchen floor. The idea had become an obsession. By Christmas she would possess the chair.
It happened that a neighbor wanted some cleaning done. She remodeled a dress for the woman who lived next door. Her sister sent her five dollars that she had borrowed weeks before. The little horde of savings increased. By Christmas she would have the green chair. She would not buy John the silk shirt he really needed for dress-up times. The children would have to get along with roller skates instead of tricycles. They wouldn't have a feast, just a plain Christmas dinner. She wouldn't buy a new dress. Instead of these things she would have the chair.
Two days before Christmas, hiding her pride, she went again to the furniture store and asked for the clerk who had served her at first.
"I have the money now. I want to buy the green chair. I will pay cash for it."
"Sorry," he said, "We sold the chair only yesterday."
Blindly she walked out into the snowy street. Holly wreaths and toys brightened the store windows and decorated evergreen trees lined the streets. But she saw nothing. The chair was gone. She would go back to the drabness of the house and no glory would come into it. There never could be another chair like that one—and it was sold. Someone else had it. And she had saved! How she had worked and saved!
Then as she walked through the deep snow and the cool white flakes struck her cheeks, calmness came over her, calmness and a regard for the practical things of the moment. She might as well get the silk shirt and the tricycles. She would buy a wine-colored dress and food for a real Christmas dinner.
Christmas morning comes all too soon for parents, but for children its advent approaches on leaden feet. The boys shouted joyfully from the tree in front of the fireplace before Edna had opened her sleepy eyes.
"Tricycles! Tricycles!" they called. "Father! Mother! Tricycles."
She put on the wine-colored dress and pulled a comb through her tangled blonde hair. A merry light came into her serious dark eyes.
"Hurry, John," she said, "It is already Christmas morning!"
Beneath the tree stood the boys looking up into the foliage where mysterious looking packages hung from the boughs. But Edna scarcely saw them, for there, between the window and the fireplace, was the green chair. The very chair that she had wanted for so long. The chair that had made her unhappy for half a year. Wide-eyed, she stared in amazement.
"John, it has come back! '? The green chair! "Tt is yours, Edna," he said, "and it is paid for!" She sank down into the cushions. "Oh, John," she said, "you are the best man in the world!" And seeing him there in the candle light, with dark head thrown back and his blue eyes flashing, she realized that there was more glory in the room than ever the chair had brought.
