Shall Christmas Giving be Dispensed with in Time of War? 
By Lucy Wright Snow.

When the Savior was born those who believed in him gave through their love of the Word, themselves, their wealth, their all.

Since that time, His followers have given some, their lives; some their effort, their time, their love; some have come to give merely "things;" some have denied Him entirely, but the spirit of giving, however it may have been previous to the time of Christ's birth, received at that time new impetus. With Christ's teachings came a renewed desire among the inhabitants of the earth, those who believed, to love one another, and the principle of Love is marked with a desire to give. The spirit of giving ebbs and flows, fluctuates as it were, directed by the amount of love that is within our souls, and when love is at its zenith, we find the desire to give at its greatest height also. And so when Christ the King was born, fulfilling the prophecies of God's holy men, the love of those who believed waxed strong and the spirit of giving was strong upon his followers. Throughout the centuries since that time the spirit of love and of giving has ebbed and flowed in proportion to the worthiness and understanding of Christ's subjects.

Shall it be dispensed with now, because we are being sorely tried and because war has forced us to economize time, money and effort? No! a thousand times no! Only let the gifts be more of love and necessaries and less of mere "things." Always, however, remembering the little children, for they could not understand nor be reconciled to the loss of their yearly holiday gifts.

Instead of spending hours and days in shops searching for notions to send out as Christmas presents, thereby using besides valuable time and money, strength and excessive nerve energy which might be used in actual service, consider if there would not actually be more good accomplished, less money expended and more service brought to bear, if the women of America would unite in doing good in some other way. Suppose each woman would take a portion of the money she has laid aside for gifts and buy stationery. Plenty of good lightweight paper and envelopes, a bottle of good ink, a goodly supply of stamps and then write messages of love and encouragement to the many who are in distress. There are hundreds of opportunities for every honest

694 .

and well-meaning woman now to become an angel of mercy, and they will multiply to those who show a willingness to seek for them. Shall the mothers in Israel lead the way in such a drive? A drive for giving comfort and solace and proving themselves soldiers worthy to claim their husbands and sons and causing such substantial gifts to supplant the smaller giving of mere "things"? Where is there a soldier who would not prize a written expression of trust or confidence more than a trinket? An encouraging uplifting letter from a good woman inspiring him to better and braver deeds, than a box of candy? Do not withhold the candy, but see that the message gets there and that it is not one of foolish sentiment; let it be one of real comfort, cheer and inspiration.

The excessive giving of "things" at Christmas time has introduced a new disease Christmas fatigue. This disease has caused a subordination of the real spirit of giving and we neglect our real duty of expression to our dear ones and supplant cold machine-made printed cards, which without some original expression of our own carry no message of consequence, other than that of a remembrance of address. And after each Christmas is over we with a tired sigh invite ourselves to believe that we have discharged our Christmas duties once more and are glad that event is twelve months away. No wonder! Remember our children are moulding their lives after our pattern. Shall we then cease to give or learn to give appropriately?

A beautiful book, beautifully written on the sublime truths taught by Jesus, prepared by Prof. O. J. P. Widtsoe, has been published by the Deseret Sunday School Union. The scholarly subdivisions of topics and the aesthetic values of the Master's teachings appear in these pages with startling clearness. Not a virtue nor a quality of the human mind and soul has been untouched by the divine Teacher. But we are particularly indebted to the clear-visioned author of this book who so simply and lovingly presents these truths in their many-sided aspects. It is a book to read on peaceful Sabbaths and to rest beside the gospels of the New Testament.