Current Topics. James H. Anderson. 
Chile seized all German ships in Chilean harbors on October 30. 
Public gatherings of every kind were stopped in Utah in October, owing to the prevalence of influenza. 
Austro-Hungary was broken by internal turmoil by the last of October, and was defeated, and surrendered to the Entente nations. 
Utah and Idaho over-subscribed their apportionments of the Fourth Liberty loan. The fifth loan comes in March or April next. 
Cross-country mail service with automobiles is being tried in the Eastern States, in sections off the lines of railway. 
The United States had over 2,000,000 men in Europe by the end of October, and more are being sent thither. 
Forest fires in Minnesota in October caused a loss of nearly 1000 lives and much property. 
The Lucia, a supposed "unsinkable ship" built in America, was sunk in mid-ocean in October, by a German submarine. 
Great tides swept the east coast of Central America in October, causing some loss of life and much destruction of property. 
The North American Review, in its current number, makes a conservative and strong protest against the steady suppression of the freedom of the press going on in the United States. The Review certainly has courage. 
Bulgaria surrendered to the Entente allies in October, thus breaking the eastern line of the Teutonic nations. 
Russian Bolsheviki, known as the soldier's and workmen's government in Russia, continued its thousands of brutal murders as a record for October. 

Belgium was virtually freed from German occupancy in October, the Germans retiring slowly before the victorious allied forces. Mexico yet has the revolutionary movement headed by Francisco Villa, and desultory fighting went on in October. German women were found operating machine guns when the American forces advanced against the Teutons near Metz, in October. Sugar in large quantities was at the Utah and Idaho beet sugar factories in October, awaiting shipment because railway facilities were insufficient. A coal famine in the United States for the winter of 1918-19 seems to have been precluded by the unusually good autumn weather this year. The "Mormon" Church subscribed $250,000 to the Fourth Liberty loan, making $750,000 purchased by the Church from the Government to date. Woman suffrage was defeated in the United States Senate by a vote of 53 to 31, in October, there not being the necessary two-thirds in its favor. It is hoped that it will come to another vote at Christmas time. American soldiers to the number of 366 were lost on the transport Otranto, which was sunk by collision in October, off the west Irish coast. President Wilson made an appeal in October for the election of a Democratic Congress, and was met by a strong protest for such action while he is chief executive. Mesopotamia has been freed from Turkish rule over its entire extent, and the British now virtually have an all-land way through Syria and Mesopotamia to British India. Turkey talked of surrender to the Entente allies all during the last three weeks of October, and surrendered unconditionally at the end of that month, to Great Britain. An explosion of TNT, the powerful explosive now used for war purposes, occurred at a munitions plant at Perth Amboy, New Jersey, on October 5, killing more than 1000 employees of the factory.

Spanish influenza, as the "overflowing scourge" prevailing throughout the world in the autumn of 1918 is called, claimed more than half a million victims in the United States up to the end of October, with approximately 25,000 deaths. Earthquakes occurred in several sections of the globe during October, the most disastrous being at Porto Rico, where a considerable number of people were killed and large property damage inflicted. A severe marine disaster, said to be the worst in the history of the American Pacific coast, occurred in October, at Lynn Canal, Alaska, when the steamship Sophia was wrecked in a storm, and 343 persons—all on board—perished. Palestine, cleared of Turkish rule and under English religious liberty, soon may be opened to the preaching of the gospel to Israel gathered there, and successively to Israel scattered through countries in Europe where hitherto there has not been religious liberty. At the October Conference, those in attendance were highly gratified at President Joseph F. Smith being able, notwithstanding his illness, to be present and address the assemblages for a short time on two occasions. Gen. Allenby's triumph in October, in driving out or capturing all of the Turkish and German forces in Palestine, and advancing his lines 200 miles north to the vicinity of Aleppo, the main Turkish and German base in Syria, was the greatest military victory in the world-war up to date.

Attention Agents and Subscribers: The first week in December will be known throughout the Church as Week, when every effort should be put forth to procure new subscribers for 1919. We ask our sisters to renew their subscriptions at that time. All hail Magazine Week, beginning December 1.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto: Charity Never Faileth

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Donnette Smith Kessler Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist

 

Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. V. DECEMBER, 1918. No. 12.

For five years the editor of the Magazine has talked to the readers behind a barricade of "we," and "our." I want to speak to you this Christmas time without any barrier of indirectness; for I want to tell you all, my readers, and those who do not read this page, but who love and work for Zion: I love you, I love you all. And O, how ardently I pray for you. You heavily burdened stake boards and ward officers, you faithful teachers, and you gentle, kindly women who gather into our Relief Society meetings weekly. My heart goes out to you every one; I see you working late, arising early, hurrying, hurrying over each task, now multiplied by our righteous war's demands, but always so anxious to do your part, so conscientious to fulfill your last and latest call and obligation. O, how I love you for it! And how our Father in heaven loves you! Surely never on this earth lived finer, nobler, sweeter women than you all are. My sisters, my dear companions, and sisters in Christ!

And then, my thoughts turn inward, and I say to my stumbling, heavily-burdened self what are you doing, how are you meeting the responsibilities placed upon you how are you facing this concourse of loving-hearted women-readers month by month? And O, do they love you? I hope so; I pray you, dear, noble sisters, and readers, try to love me and be patient with my

mistakes, kind to my faults, and let us love and serve each other truly. This, as I conceive it, is the throbbing heart of Christ's message to us all. And when the day breaks or the night shadows close around my evening pillow, and I think of my dear Savior, as He lay upon his mother's breast like my sons have rested on my bosom, I say to Him fondly, I love you, my Savior and my Friend. As lisping child, I love You. So must I love all lisping babes for Your dear sake. I love You working to bring mankind to learn obedience to law, yet pitying us all who cannot quite reach up to Thy perfection. And in that love for You, my soul thrills and my eyes fill with fond tears for these dear women, sisters and associates in the Relief Society, for we have all named Thy name, and we are Thy daughters.

This is my only Christmas gift, sisters, my love and prayers for you, and I lay it humbly on the altar of your forgiving companionship.

The General Board of the Relief Society organized, several years ago, a Burial Clothes Department, under the sanction and approval of the First Presidency of the Church. Recently the old offices were vacated, when the Presidency moved into the new building, and were turned over to the Burial Clothes Department. We hope our sisters will continue to build up, through their patronage and encouragement, this splendid enterprise. It is in charge of Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Counselor to Pres. E. B. Wells. She and her committee have already a complete stock of the most beautiful and delicately-fashioned burial clothes possible for anyone of human skill to prepare. All grades of clothing are here shown, from the best to the cheapest. No individual makes any profit out of the work done in the department. Those who engage in the actual labor are paid a modest wage, but whatever profits accrue belong to the Society itself, so that the sisters patronizing this department are building up the Society, and not enriching individual undertaking firms. The committee have not raised their prices in spite of the tremendous raise in every other direction which the War has necessitated. The clothes may be ordered by mail or otherwise. Address: Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Bee Hive House, Salt Lake City, Utah.