Guide Lessons.

January, Lesson 1. The Ministration of the Prince of Peace. February, Lesson 2. The Social Order of the Prince of Peace. March, Lesson 3. The Completeness and Detail of Prophecy in Relation to the Savior. April, Lesson 4. Children and the Book of Mormon. May, Lesson 5. The Doctrine of Inspired Ones as Set Forth in the Book of Mormon. June, Lesson 6. Miracles and the Book of Mormon. September, Lesson 7. Laws and the Nephites. October, Lesson 8. Legends and Book of Mormon Peoples. November, Lesson 9. Harvest Feasts and Book of Mormon Peoples. December, Lesson 10. Christmas Festivities and Book of Mormon Peoples.

January, Lesson 1. How a Great English Battle Started Surnames in England. February, Lesson 2. The Origin of Anglo-Saxon Surnames. March, Lesson 3.

People Surnamed Themselves from Places. April, Lesson 4. Surnames Derived from Offices and Professions. May, Lesson 5. Surnames from Trades and Occupations. June, Lesson 6. Nicknames Prefixes and Suffixes. September, Lesson 7. Scotch and Irish Surnames. October, Lesson 8. Welsh Surnames. November, Lesson 9. Pedigrees and How to Use Them. December, Lesson 10. Preparing Printed Records.
January, Lesson 1. Domestic Relations to the National Food Supply. February, Lesson 2. What is Public Health. (Old Customs and new Methods.) March, Lesson 3. Domestic Factors in Health Conservation. April, Lesson 4. Phases of Growth; Characteristics and Requirements.
May, Lesson 5. The Intelligent Observation of Children. June, Lesson 6. A Short Story of Adolescence. September, Lesson 7. National Aspects of Parenthood and its Problems. October, Lesson 8. The Influence of Home Conditions on Public Health. November, Lesson 9. Training in Personal Hygiene. December, Lesson 10. Dietary Needs at Various Ages.
Education is to lead out; to draw out. In the ideal lesson we should emphasize three p's: (1) Purpose; (2) Preparation; (3) Participation.
1. Purpose Purpose should be definite. a. What is the lesson for? b. Get at core or central thought. c. Lesson should be planned to focus on one main thought.
2. Preparation "You cannot teach what you do not know" Dr. Maeser. Preparation should include both teachers and pupils.
3. Participation. In an ideal recitation everybody must take part. To expand, the mind must have something to tie to. Active participation gives the mind of each individual a chance. Activity stimulates thought, arouses enthusiasm and secures attention. Ask questions frequently to focus attention, to impress points and to insure participation.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November.
Perhaps the most glorious book in the Book of Mormon is the Third Book of Nephi. It is most glorious because it gives a marvelous account of the ministry of the Lord Jesus on this continent. But the prelude to this great event was the period of dire calamity visited on the wicked and those who had sought the lives of the prophets. In the 8th chapter of III Nephi we read:
"And there began to be great doubtings and disputations among the people, notwithstanding so many signs had been given.
710 .
"And it came to pass in the thirty-fourth year, in the first month, in the fourth day of the month there arose a great storm, such a one as never had been known in all the land; and there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there was terrible thunder, insomuch, that it did shake the whole earth, as if it were about to divide asunder, and there were exceedingly sharp lightnings, such as never had been known in all the land."
When this terrible storm ceased a voice made announcement of all the great destruction that had taken place. In the 12th paragraph of III Nephi this voice declared:
"And many great destructions have I caused to come upon the land, and upon the people, because of their wickedness and their abominations."
Then came the wonderful plea:
"O all ye that are spared because ye were more righteous than they, will ye not now return unto me and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may heal you?
"Yea, verily I say unto you, if you will come unto me ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive, and blessed are those who come unto me.
"Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father from the beginning; I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name."
While these events were occurring, the people of this continent were enveloped by an indescribable darkness, a darkness that was so thick that it might be felt. But saith the inspired record, after three days of intense darkness, it was "morning and the darkness dispersed from off the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the rocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease, and all the tumultuous noises did pass away.
"And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood and the mourning and the weeping and the wailing of the people who were spared alive, did cease; and their mourning was turned into joy, and their lamentations unto the praise and thanksgiving of the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer.

"And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled which had been spoken by the prophets. 
"And it was the more righteous part of the people that were saved, and it was they who received the prophets and stoned them not; and it was they who had not shed the blood of the saints, who were spared. 
"And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destruction by fire and by smoke and by tempests, and by whirlwinds, and by opening of the earth to receive 
them, and all these things, are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of all the holy prophets." 
Does not that last paragraph of scripture seem as if it might have been written for our express benefit, in this very hour? Is it not most fitting to exhort today that "he that hath the scriptures let him search them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destructions about us, by fire and by smoke and by tempests and by whirlwinds and by opening of the earth to receive them, and all these things, are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of all the holy prophets." 
The history of the past month has furnished a parallel for nearly every detail in this paragraph. Many lives have been lost by fire and by smoke and by tempests. Lives are certainly being lost by whirlwinds, and only a few days have elapsed since we read the story of the ravages of the last earthquake. Pestilence and disease, deaths over the whole earth. With equal force may we not say with those who lived in that great period of the meridian of time; "See and behold if all these deaths and destructions are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of many of the holy prophets?" 
And, moreover, the terrible destruction of the fighting armies in the East and the West continues; gaunt famine has many millions of the earth in her grasp; disease has spread from continent to continent—disease claiming a larger toll at present, so far as the United States soldier is concerned, than the battle front. The might of the house of Hohenzollern, and the glory of the ancient house of Hapsburg is hourly fading as the mists before the sun. Surely history doth repeat itself, and like causes produce like results in all ages. 
But now we turn once again to that part of our record that imparts joy and hope. After all the dire calamities that occurred among the Nephites came the Prince of Peace with healing in his wings. And he ministered unto them and blessed them until their joy was full. The author of the Story of the Book of Mormon refers to this blessed era of peace in the following language: 
"When Jesus left the Nephites to the care of his disciples he had so thoroughly filled the people with the influence and the power of the eternal worlds that evil utterly ceased in their midst; they were united in all things temporal and spiritual, universal peace prevailed. Love, joy, harmony, everything desirable to make the life of man a perfect condition of unalloyed, holy happiness, reigned supreme. Indeed, it may be said that a type, a foreshadowing of the Millennium, for once found place and foothold among the sons of humanity." 
Once again the Latter-day Saints stand where stood those of old, waiting for the advent of the Prince of Peace. It is not given 
712 . 
to man to know the hour when he shall come, but that he will come in glory and power no person who has faith in God's holy prophets ever doubts. He will come unto the Jews in Jerusalem, and there upon the Mount of Olives, he will show them the wounds in his hands and feet and side. Do we not truly rejoice that all history is moving rapidly towards that glorious consummation? The Holy Land, now no longer in possession of the Turks, must soon surely be a safe abiding place for her ancient covenant people. Under the magic touch of the modern engineer, cool waters have been stretched across her parched and burning deserts from Egypt to Jerusalem. And this we may well believe is only the beginning of the story. This war-worn, weary world of ours that has cried, peace, peace, so long, and finds no peace, will rest at last; for the Lord of glory will usher in the great Millennium.

No matter how bitterly and completely the peace efforts of statesmen, philanthropists and scholars may have failed in the past; or how bitterly and completely they may fail in the future, one thing is sure, that when Jesus comes to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords, peace will cover the earth. 
1. Why would you naturally expect the part of the Book of Mormon dealing with Christ's ministry to be especially wonderful and glorious? 
2. How was the advent of the Prince of Peace ushered in to the Nephites? 
3. Read to the class the chapter announcing the calamities that had befallen them. (III Nephi 9.) 
4. Why had they reasons to expect these calamities? 
5. When do you recall the last deaths occurring from fire? From tempest? From whirlwinds? From earthquakes? 
6. Tell how this toll of death is being added to by war, famine and disease. 
7. With what country is the house of Hohenzollern connected? 
8. With what country is the house of Hapsburg connected? 
9. Find some scripture that refers to Christ's second coming and read it to the class. 
10. Read Orson Hyde's prayer dedicating the land of Palestine for the gathering of the Jews. 
11. Why is there larger hope that the scripture may soon be fulfilled in relation to the Jews, with Palestine in the possession of Great Britain and the allied nations, than in the hands of Turkey? 
12. How is the period of time following Christ's ministry to the Nephites characterized? 
13. What may we expect of that period when Christ shall come to reign as King? 
LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in November. 
LESSON III. Genealogy. 
HOW A GREAT ENGLISH BATTLE STARTED SURNAMES IN ENGLAND. (Chapters XI and XII in Surname Book.) 
Teachers' Outlines. 
England has always been a melting pot for the Anglo-Saxon races. (a) First came the Angles and Saxons. (b) Then came the Danes. (c) Finally the Normans came over under William the Conqueror in 1066. 
William the Conqueror, the great originator of English surnames. (a) He caused a list of his nobles to be placed in the Abbey built over his victorious battle-ground at Hastings. (b) He had a survey made of all his possessions and subjects which was recorded in a book called Domesday Book. (c) In these lists or records men were called by place names, nicknames, sire-names and trade names. Hence arose surnames, gradually and slowly until the habit was formed. By the 13th and 14th centuries most men had adopted surnames in England. 
Lesson Statement. 
England, like America, has been a melting-pot for the races and tribes of the earth; yet unlike America, England's various migrations were all from the Teutonic races, while America takes in nearly as many of the Latin, negro and oriental races as it has of the Anglo-Saxons. 
England first had Britons and Celts. Next came the Angles and Saxons. Then came the Danes and Northmen who were all called Scandinavians in those days. 
714 . 
Finally, the Normans, who were Frenchified Scandinavians came over under William the Conqueror in 1066. The story of William's coming over is very interesting, for he was a great character. We think of Cromwell and Washington, of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, when we think of comparisons for William the Conqueror. Yet William was a man of his times and he was also a brave soldier. Read his story in the histories. He fought a great battle and at Hastings conquered the Anglo-Saxons and had himself proclaimed king of England. 
The next day after the battle he told his clerks to make out a list of all his nobles and followers, especially those who had died in the battle, and to place them on an altar in a church or abbey, which he directed should be built on the very spot where he then stood; and this church was called Battle Abbey. He also made a law that at regular periods the priests of the new Abbey should pronounce masses for the souls of his followers who had fallen in battle at Hastings and at other points. We may say in passing that this custom of the Catholic Church is undoubtedly a relic or corrupted tradition of baptism for the dead. 
This Battle Abbey list will be found in some surname books as it was preserved in a pretty fair shape through the ages, and in recent years it has been printed by the English people. 
Men were known only by their first names at this period (1066 A. D.), but William wanted to make a census of his Norman nobles and his Anglo-Saxon subjects. 

Indeed, after he had divided up England and its rich lands and manors, seizing them from the Anglo-Saxons who had been conquered, he presented all the lands and properties in different amounts and lots to his barons and knights. In order to know just how much property there was in the kingdom and just how many men, he sent out a lot of clerks or heralds into every shire and had a census taken of the properties and of the men clear down to the last cotter in the kingdom. These names were written on sheets of parchment in Latin script and crowded together to save space, and all of them were gathered together and bound up in what is known as the Domesday Book. 
Now, in making this list William's officers often spoke of the various men with the nickname, or as the son of, or as of a certain place, so that one William might be distinguished from another William in the same parish, and one John from all the other Johns. There would be William Fitz James, who was William the son of James; or William le Young, who was William Jr.; or Roger de Bois, who was Roger of the Wood; or Roger Cruickshanks, who was the Roger with knock-knees or bowlegs or crooked shanks. 
Sons of these men found it convenient to continue the father's 
nickname, his place of residence, or maybe his trade name attached to his own, so that the deeds of places might be carried on legally without confusion and mistakes of title, because many men bore the same personal names in the same parish. That is, Roger Cruickshanks' son William would be William Cruickshanks, and Roger de Bois' son William would call himself William de Bois; thus avoiding confusion in legal matters and giving themselves an added name by which to distinguish themselves and their families in the shire and in the village. 
Thus it was that the Domesday Book and the Battle of Hastings started a custom in England of adding another name to the personal name and making it permanent. It might be said that a name did not become a surname until it had been borne by three generations, for men had inherited the custom of changing their names, both personal or surname very frequently for one reason or another. 
We are told by antiquarians, historians and genealogists that the same custom of taking an added name or a surname began to prevail in Europe at about the same period, that is about the twelfth century. However, not until the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries did surnames really become permanent and fixed. 
What races settled in Great Britain? Who were the Anglo-Saxons? What is the difference between the Danes and Norsemen? Who were the Swedes? Tell the story of William the Conqueror. What can you say of Battle Abbey? Describe the Domesday Book. When and how are surnames formed? What is a surname? 
LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in January. 
WHAT IS PUBLIC HEALTH. (Old Customs and New Methods.) 
Public Health may be defined as the maintenance of the highest standard of human efficiency, physical, moral and mental, by each individual in the population. But to realize an ideal standard of health necessitates not only a study of the means by which this efficiency can be attained, and maintained, but also a knowledge of the causes which interfere and prevent this satisfactory condition. 
716 . 
Health is regarded by most people as a purely individual affair, why then, should we consider it a public concern. Because ignorance of the one reacts upon the many. Want of care on the part of one member of the family may cause an accident or condition of ill health, which may hamper the remaining members for months or maybe years. Take the carelessness of a factory workman, an accident occurs, what are the results? (1) Wages lost to injured man. (2) Retrenchment, if not poverty to his family. (3) Service lost to the employer. (4) National loss in case of frequent occurrence. Industrial carelessness in the United States costs annually fifty thousand lives, or seventy-five million dollars, two million injuries, or fifty million dollars. 
One case of neglected contagious disease is responsible for thousands of preventable deaths and preventable ill health. 
Then this great verity, that there could not be health of mind, nor purity of morals, without bodily well being, was recognized by the old religious teachers in the ancient civilizations. These leaders, for instances, Moses, Zoroaster, or Mohammed, combined the triple office of priest or spiritual adviser, lawgiver or controller of intellectual and social activities, and physician or protector of the physical welfare. 

A study of their writings shows how intimate they considered the connection between these three sacred charges. In the great cities of Jerusalem, Babylon, Nineveh and Rome and in Egypt, recent discoveries reveal the wonderful provision made for the protection of health by an adequate supply of pure water, by burning of city garbage, by the construction of great sewers to carry off waste matters, and isolation in cases of contagious disease. Their instructions entered even into such intimate detail as the washing of hands before and after taking food. Old records show that, when these precautions were neglected, within a measurable number of years the great civilizations declined, because the strength of the people, as well as their moral standards, deteriorated. For a long period, probably a thousand years, little attention was given to these matters, and there is reason to believe that as much as two-thirds of the population of the then known world was destroyed by plagues, chiefly due to depraved morals and filthy surroundings. Nevertheless, the same weight of responsibility did not rest on these people as does upon us, who have for our assistance all the researches of modern science. They perished for lack of knowledge, we perish from disregard of knowledge. The stages through which man has passed in his efforts to attain a high standard of health may be briefly grouped as follows: (1) Unconscious self protection; comfort, rather than consideration of health furnishing the motive for shifting quarters, GUIDE LESSONS. 717 as food and water supply diminished or the accumulation of refuse became inconvenient. (2) Religious fatalism, or the period of acceptance of disease and disabilities as the direct acts of the gods for the punishment of men's sins or for purposes of discipline. (3) Awakened perception and knowledge of the real causes underlying human conditions. The realization that neglect to trace effects to preventable causes seriously interfered with human well being resulted in a return to laws for the control of members of a community, careless of the consequences of their own disregard of cleanliness, etc., and its effects upon their neighbors. Therefore, historical records in the middle ages reveal efforts to check detrimental conditions by means of stringent laws. Even half a century ago, there were many who thought that with the passing of a law all would be well. But laws alone will not maintain public health; unless an educated public opinion and practice support and enforce each law it remains a dead letter. To secure this, there must be an educated population, and an individual realization that each personal act may have very far-reaching consequences upon the whole nation. One ill kept home may form a focus of infection for a large circle of neighbors. The strength of a chain is its weakest link; therefore the health and prosperity of a nation must be estimated not by its most sanitary city and finest youth, but by its most ill-kept family home and its lowest type of human being. In our own day, we are seeing old methods give way to new ones in the light of the knowledge now at our disposal; for instance, fresh air once considered dangerous is now the physician's ally to secure recovery; bathing, regarded as injurious, is now looked upon as equally indispensable for the healthy and diseased. Twenty-four hours of starvation is now known to be better in many cases than drugs; in fact, the old faith in drugs is yielding to faith in giving Nature a fair chance, by keeping the sick person warm, quiet, clean and suitably fed. The four preventable wastes in human life are: (1) Preventable Deaths. What a loss to the country exists in the death annually of three hundred thousand infants; and while the death rates at subsequent ages are being lowered, there is a great increase at the age of 45 and upwards. (2) Preventable Sickness. It is estimated that ninety-nine per cent of deaths from all forms of infection are preventable. (3) Preventable Ignorance. It has been found that in every million persons only five thousand seven hundred are college graduates, and grade school education is not yet compulsory in every state. (4) Preventable Inefficiency due to want of training, 718 . though the material be good, or want of good material, though the training be good. The scope of Public Health Protection embraces: (1) Vital statistics; that is, careful registration of births and deaths. (2) Education of public opinion. (3) Control of patent drugs. (4) Care of the sick poor. (5) Protection of food, milk and water from adulteration, and by sanitation. (6) Control of nuisances privy sanitation, housing, plumbing, nuisances, refuse removal, fly and mosquito control, etc. (7) Control of Infant Mortality. (8) Medical inspection of schools.

(9) Control of diseases. Children should be early taught the proper care of the person and the right exercise of bodily functions. Just here it may be well to enumerate some of the essentials of right living: (1) Nutrition suited to varying ages and requirements. (2) Fresh air, night and day. (3) Adequate sleep under good conditions. (4) Suitable recreation at all ages. (5) Brisk exercise of mind and body. (6) The right spirit toward work. If work were regarded always as an opportunity for use of skill, it would annihilate that sickly self-commiseration which paralyzes so much effort. (7) Definite aim in life. (8) Good habits. (9) Self-control.

QUESTIONS. (1) Why is health a public concern? (2) Trace the stages of man's development in health standard (3) What are the preventable wastes in human life? (4) Give illustrations from your experience of the causes for such wastes. (5) By what means, public, domestic, and personal could these be controlled? (6) Enumerate the activities embraced in Public Health protection. (7) What is shown by the recent records of the death rate in this country? (8) Why is the registration of births and deaths essential to national health?

The 
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 

"May the enter upon its noble mission so firmly surrounded by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious.