[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | March | Issue: 17 | Title: THE RECORD OF A DAY. | Author: Unknown]

THE RECORD OF A DAY.

Once in a castle famed and old
With frowning towers brown and bold,
A lovely lady's jewels lay
Resplendent in the sunlight's ray,
And seeing them, a bird flew in,
And knowing not of wrong or sin,
She drew a necklace from the rest
And bore it to her own dear nest.

Not long ago, I listened to
A story strange yet sweet and true,
And I (another bird) did take
The story for its beauty's sake;
But now return it wreathed in rhyme
And ask his pardon for the crime.
For conscience sake and loyalty
To God and truth, with others, he
Had passed through weary months and days
Of prison life, yet still gave praise
To Him who rules through storm and calm,
And saves His own through every harm.

So like each other passed the years—
At length grew dull their hopes and fears,
And patience turned with faith's content
To lessons that its pages lent.

Then some one called. A moment more,
He stood outside the prison door,
And there—upon the great high wall,
That cast its shadow over all,
A heavenly host (to them it seemed)
As fair as e'er in sleep was dreamed,
But—real, living, with sweet voice
To bid the pris'ners' hearts rejoice.
And while they gazed—the children sang
Till all the cells in music rang;
Sweet songs of love and home and cheer
From those young lips, oh! doubly dear!
For tenderest thoughts upstarted then
Within the hearts of these true men;
And even those whose souls where not
Without sin's dark unfading spot,
In memory of desperate wrong,
Were touched, and wept at that pure song.

Soon as their voices hushed again
Responsive tones rose from the Pen;
The prisoners answered joyously,
As greatful hearts that day could be:
"Home Sweet Home" and songs of love,
And joyous waltzes rose above
The prison walls to that free space
Where shone each pure and lovely face.

Oh never happier were those men
Since first they entered that dark Pen,
Than answering the sweet benison
Brought by each dear and loving one.

Again the little singers raised
Their songs of love and faith and praise,

[Column 2]

And all seemed dream-life, fairy like,
And then the bell's deep tone did strike
The songs to silence, and they knew
That signal was for parting, tool

But e'er their footsteps turned away,
As the sun throws his brightest ray
Before he vanishes at night,
A lovely farewell met their sight!
Each gentle hand in parting threw
Blossoms of every scent and hue
Upon the trampled dust below—
Jewels upon the breast of woe.

With eager hands and tear dimmed eyes
They caught them up as precious prize,
And ne'er was purer token pressed
Unto a brave man's throbbing breast,

A moment more and all was still,
And each one with a strong, brave will
Turned to the duties of the place
With softer step and tenderer face.

When years have come and passed away,
And he who wrote that page is gray,
His children oft will gather near
That journal's stories still to hear,
And little ones will sweetly say:
"Did they keep dear Grandpa that way?"
And tender eyes will fill with tears
Hearing the record of these years.

O, treasured more than ancient sword
Will be the pris'ner's written word;
Though traced in prison's sunless day,
The gems of truth will shine a'way!

All honor to each tender heart
That bore its share at home, apart,
While he who was their light was gone,
And the stern world looked coldly on;
And blessings on each darling born
To wear the wreath of shame and scorn.

When waiting at the pearly gates
Each soul the voice divine awaits,
And reads the name upon each one,
THOSE NAMES—the Patriarch Jacob's sons.

Then shall their birthright honored be—
Passport to IMMORTALITY!
Then shall the prisoner's written page
