PORTRAIT AND MESSAGE OF COL. THEODORE ROOSEVELT. Vol. V.                           FEBRUARY, 1918.                           No. 2

Ex-President Roosevelt Congratulates American Mothers.

The Magazine presents the latest picture of the greatest soldier, and one of the greatest if not the greatest American, living or dead, with the congratulations which he sends to the Unusual Mothers of the West and of this Church. Copies of this Magazine were sent to Col. Roosevelt and we are proud and sure that our readers will share our pride and pleasure in his return message. Col. Roosevelt is not only greatly respected and admired in the West for his wisdom, his statesmanship, his courage and his supreme loyalty; he is as well loved for his humaneness and deep spiritual understanding of the common people's common problems. Many know and feel that Col. Roosevelt's generous toleration, his refusal to take offense at studied efforts to humiliate him, his unswerving loyalty to the flag, his consistent patriotism have done more to place the masses of the people in line with the war policies of this government than any other single factor. He still possesses the power to do more good, or more evil, to lead more people in right or wrong political paths than any other man in this nation. His star has not set, nor  we may hope  has it yet reached its zenith.

And now we continue with the presentation of our Unusual Mothers, women who have borne the heat and the burden of the day, and whose descendants are worthy representatives of the sturdy pioneer stock from which they sprang.

SARIAH S. MCDONALD
Of Wasatch Stake.
MOTHER OF TWENTY CHILDREN.

Sariah Shirts McDonald was born in St. Louis, Mo., Dec. 27, 1838, and was married to William McDonald, Jan. 1, 1854, when she was between fifteen and sixteen years of age, at Cedar


City, Iron County, Utah. She had four children when they moved to Heber City, and gave birth to sixteen more after her removal there, raised eleven to man and womanhood and buried nine in childhood. She worked hard until she was 72 years old. Her health is fair at present. She is a good Latter-day Saint, but doesn't attend meetings much on account of poor hearing. She always donated liberally whenever asked to help in a good cause; loves to talk on the gospel and passing events. She does her own

SARIAH S. MCDONALD.

sewing without glasses at the age of 79 years, has raised her sister from an infant after the death of her mother until she herself was seventeen years old when she was married to William McDonald as a plural wife. May her remaining days be filled with the afterglow of her full and generous experiences, and when she passes beyond may the change come as sleep to a babe upon its mother's breast.

JULIET D. BOHNE.
Of Cardston Stake.
MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN.

Mrs. Juliet Day Bohne was born Oct. 18, 1848, at Kanesville, Pottawattamie, Illinois. She was baptized in 1864.


Her parents came to Salt Lake, in the year 1852, and settled later in Springville. Soon after they moved to Mt. Pleasant where she met and married H. M. Bohne, in 1866, at the age of sixteen, where she lived till she moved to Canada. She buried six of her first eight children there, the first ones being twins. She also buried another child after their arrival in Canada.

MRS. JULIET D. BOHNE.

The oldest child if living would have been fifty years old and their youngest twenty-six. They celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary March 25, 1916. She was a brave and noble spirit and knew no fear. She died on January 28, 1916, at the age of 68, at Aetna, Alberta, Canada. She was the mother of seventeen children.

MRS. AMANDA WILLIAMS CLARK,
Of Panguitch Stake.
MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

Amanda Williams Clark, the mother of sixteen children, was born Nov. 24, 1835, at Lake Cork, Logan county, Illinois. She married Riley Garner Clark, March 20, 1850, at Provo, Utah. After twenty-five years and nine months he died leaving to her the sole care and support of this large family. She has resided at Panguitch, Utah, for forty-six years, becoming a mem-


ber of the Relief Society at the age of sixteen, and serving for twelve years as a teacher. All her life she has been very active and even now, at the age of eighty-one, she keeps up her own home attending to all the domestic duties herself, besides helping at times members of her family. She will always be remembered throughout the state by her many friends for her generosity, charity and kindness. Every year she travels in various parts of the states of Utah and Idaho visiting with her children. Following are their names with dates of birth: Riley Garner, Feb. 22, 1851; Sarah Jane, Jan. 28, 1852; Mary Elizabeth, March 3, 1854; Amanda, Oct. 17, 1855; Samuel, Feb. 7, 1857; Mary Ann, June 6, 1858; Ellen, Feb. 13, 1860; Joseph W., Feb. 14, 1862; Diantha, Dec. 14, 1863; Delethine Alice, July 10, 1865; Ada, Aug. 30, 1867; Guy Willison, Nov. 6, 1870; Blanche, Sept. 28, 1872; James Leland, Aug. 1, 1874; Austin, March 2, 1876.

AMANDA WILLIAMS CLARK.

EMMA HARDCASTLE JENKINS,
Of Cassia Stake.
MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

Emma Hardcastle Jenkins was born in Yorkshire, June 28, 1853. She came to Utah with her parents, in 1865, by ox team. She was married to Ralph Jenkins May, 1869, and is the mother of sixteen children, thirteen now living.

EX-PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT'S MESSAGE. 

Of Cassia Stake.
MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

Mary Ann Hudson was born April 17, 1845, at Nauvoo, Hancock county, Illinois. Her father's name was Wilford Hudson. Her mother's name, Julia Ann Graybill. Her people were driven from Nauvoo, in 1846. Her father joined the Mormon Battalion, leaving his family at Winter Quarters. After going out to California, he being the first man to discover gold in California, in 1848, he went back east to Winter Quarters and then removed his family to Utah. Soon after their arrival in Utah the mother died. Mary Ann was baptized, in 1853, by Wm. A. Martindale. She was married to Charles K. McMurray, April 20, 1867, and was the mother of sixteen children six boys and ten girls. There are six boys and seven girls living. She came to Idaho in 1882, and was a teacher in the Relief Society for many years. She died December 12, 1913, a faithful Latter-day Saint.

MRS. JULIA L. MCDONALD.
MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

Mrs. Julia L. McDonald was born in middle Tennessee, Nov. 25, 1865, and lived there until five years old. Then she moved

JULIA L. MCDONALD.


with her parents to Paulding, Mississippi, living there until Nov. 22, 1880, when she married William Wesley Morris. She was the mother of eight children when Mr. Morris was accidentally killed, in 1894. In 1895 she married Angus Marion McDonald. After marrying him she embraced the gospel that same year and emigrated to Utah in February, 1896. She became the mother of eight more children, and fourteen of her children are still living. She buried her oldest son in 1907, at Springville, Utah. He was killed by accident. Her youngest child she buried at Nampa, Idaho, in 1915, at the age of three years. She also buried her husband, in 1915, but notwithstanding all her trials and troubles Sister McDonald isa happy mother, and feels that through the Spirit and guidance of the Lord she has been successful in rearing a large family and keeping them all together. She has twenty-two grandchildren. This photograph of Sister McDonald was taken October 1, 1017. in Burley, Idaho. .SARAH JANE LEE ROWBERRY Of Bingham Stake. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Sarah Jane Lee Rowberry was born February 19, 1851, in Tooele City, Tooele county, Utah, and was the first white girl born in Tooele Valley, her parents being among the first settlers of Tooele City. She was the daughter of Thomas Lee and Harriet Wolkitt. When she was seven years of age she was taken by her parents with the Saints who went south when the Johnston army was coming. She walked with her brother, T. W. Lee, and drove cattle from Tooele to Lehi. They had no shoes, and I remember hearing her tell how sore her feet were and how they had to live on pigweed greens for weeks. When she was fifteen years of age, she married Joseph Rowberry, who was the oldest son of Bishop John Rowberry. They were married on the 28th of October, 1866, fifty-one years ago. There was born to this union sixteen children  eight boys and eight girls  twelve of whom are now^ living. In the year 1894, she studied and was granted a diploma as an obstetrician and has practiced since that time, being very successful, her work having been very extensive. Going to everyone who called her. and traveling about in all kinds of weather perhaps induced the later breaking up of her health. I have known her to get out of bed 
 many a time when she staggered as she walked to go to the aid of some sick sister. While in Utah she labored in the Batesville ward, Tooele stake, as a Relief Society teacher, from the time that Society was first organized until she was sustained as first counselor to Sister MRS. SARAH J. L. ROWBERRY. Margaret Bryan. She held this position until she moved to Iona. Bingham stake, in the year 1902, where she now resides. She is now a widow. Her husband died on the 16th of December, 1916. The general condition of her health at present is very poor, 'although her will power is as strong to do good and aid the sick as it ever was. May she live long yet, to do much good and enjoy life, is the sincere wish of the writer. Mothers in Israel. Here are additional items from our St. George heroine, Sister Burgess, too valuable to be lost from history: My father. Wm. Patterson Mclntire and my mother, Anna Patterson, were both born in Pennsylvania in the township of Wheatfield. Indiana county. Their parents were farmers, living three miles apart. The two families were very intimate and friendly, my father being named after my mother's father, Wm. Patterson. Her mother was Margaret Lynn Patterson; she had four brothers and two sisters, yet none of her family but herself embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ. She left them all and came to Nauvoo with her husband, my father. My grandfather was George Mclntire whose wife was Sarah Davis. My father had six brothers and three sisters. They were all born in Pennsylvania, yet none but him accepted the gospel. My grandfather Mclntire came to Nauvoo with my father, but didn't join the Church, yet he always thought everything of the Prophet Joseph Smith; he greatly admired his nobleness and truth although he himself was an unbeliever. He was a Presbyterian as to religion. Grandfather owned two large brick dwellings and a place called "The Brick Row." It was built to rent; there were eleven good sized rooms in the row. He was a moneyed man, and these brick buildings were mortgaged to him on borrowed money. My father's ancestors were Scotch on his father's side; he was the last male member and their names traced back to 1600. His name was Arthur Mclntire. He married a Miss Douglass of the famous Douglass family of Scotland. My grandfather George Mclntire was born in June, 1771. He had four brothers and three sisters. In the days of Nauvoo I remember President Brigham Young as a great and good man. He was on a mission in England. I remember his Nauvoo house as well as can be; it was a brick house and was on the northeast corner of the block above us, facing east. President Young was a great friend to my parents. valley in the early remember, fifties, not while a great while living we were after in wet he came Old to Fort. the President Young had a family party. He sent a sleigh down after my father and mother and it snowed all night, and they did not come home until morning. We children were snowed in, and every one else in the Fort was snowed in until they dug themselves out. We were glad when our parents came in the MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 71 morning to dig" ns out; it was like going up out of a cellar. At that time I was 12 years old and my brother was 14 years old. The dear little twins I told you of died in Nauvoo. They were seven months old at the time I wrote about them when the Prophet had one of them. One died when it was eleven months old and the one the Prophet had was fifteen months old when it passed away of a disease called black canker, and diarrhoea, which came among the babies and proved fatal generally. My father and mother both died here in St. George. My mother died in the year 1880, 27th of June, and my father died in 1882, the 7th of January. They were both 68 years old. They were both pioneers of 1861, among the first in camp, as also myself and family. It was a very barren and desolate place at that time, but it does not take long for the followers of Jesus Christ to make the desert blossom as the rose. The dear old arm chair, which belonged to the Young family, I would love to keep a little longer as it is all the arm chair I have. Truly your friend and sister in the gospel, Margaret McIntire Burgess. Mrs. Mary Elizabeth turner. A SELF-MADE WOMAN. The subject of this sketch is a Latter-day heroine. She was born in East Mill Creek. Feb. 1, 1850. Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Archibald Gardner. Married Wm. Turner, Nov. 25, 1865, at the age of fifteen, and says if she had it to do over again, she would marry at the age of fourteen. She wanted fifteen children, but the Lord only sent her ten. Lived in West Jordan until 1890, when she and her husband moved to Bedford, Wyo.. where, with their small family, they lived in a tent. Then a big snow storm came, and they could see it would be impossible to live in a tent all winter, so the men in the community cut a road over a big mountain and hauled logs ten miles to build a new home. Mrs. Turner and her husband hewed all of the logs, and Mrs. Turner, herself, made all of the window frames, all of the doors, and did all of the finishing, inside, of her new home. She made every piece of furniture but the stove, and today is using the same bedstead, cupboard and dresser. She made all of the carpet used, as well as all of the bedding. And she and her daughter took sheep skin in its crude state, sheared it, carded wool, and made forty yards of cloth. Mrs. Turner wore a dress made from this cloth for eleven years, and then gave it to a squaw for future use. 
 There were no schools in this country for a few years, so Mrs. Turner taught her children to read and write. She was president of the Bedford Relief Society for some time, and used to walk to Afton, Wyo., a distance of ten miles through four feet of snow to get to conference. She has been a member of the Relief Society ever since she moved to Wyoming, and during all of this time has helped the sick and needy whenever she could. When people were in trouble they would wave a flag in the day time and fire a gun off at night, and she has answered the call of a gun many a time, in all kinds of weather, and has thus traveled many miles through the deep snow.. Since her husband's death, she has operated a saw mill, living next door, she superintends every item, hiring men to do the actual labor, and has earned every cent of money for her livelihood, reared her children, schooled them, and married them off. She harvests her own crops, kills her own cattle, and is capable of keeping herself entirely, by creating personally the supply for every bodily need. This year she dug her garden with a spade and has raised enough wheat, vegetables, and fruit to keep herself and six men for the coming year. All of her surplus is used in 'doing temple work. When her crops are finished she spends what time and money she has in the Salt Lake Temple working for the dead. While Mrs. Turner was a resident of Utah, and during the time so many people were on the underground, she went every week for two years to the penitentiary where several of her relatives and friends were serving sentences for the cause of polygamy, got their soiled clothing, took it home, laundered it, and returned it to them. THE NOBLE WEAKER SEX. The weaker sex Is that portion Of the human race
Who goes down-town
In zero weather
In a half-masted lace waist
And pumps
To buy a muffler
And woolen socks
For her husband
So he can go to work.
 Arkansas Gazette.