[Vol1 | May 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Memories]

RELIEF SOCIETY MEMORIES.
The seventeenth of March has come to be recognized as a day set apart for special significance to commemorate the day; and occasion when the first woman's society of any great importance was organized, and more especially to emphasize the fact that the organization was effected under the Priesthood and by the authority of the same.
It is my idea that this society of women was established previous to any such organization of women in the world.
We know that the Prophet Joseph Smith at that time turned the key of knowledge for women, and the record of this edict, if it can be so called, is on the pages of history and the fulfillment thereof is apparent.
Since that time woman everywhere among civilized nations has been struggling for greater freedom from the conditions that had existed previously, and very much greater liberty has been brought about towards the elevation of womanhood, until greater progress and a higher civilization for all has been attained.
This fact has been proclaimed and reiterated until it has become established in the minds of all our own people, and many others have been convinced of its validity.
We need not now dwell especially upon this matter in its broad sense, but we do desire that our sisters in the Church should realize the great importance of this Society and appreciate its benefits, not only in a temporal service, giving relief to the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted; but also in its educational development spiritually, to those who come 2 within its influence.
Humility brings down the blessings of heaven upon all who really and truly seek to know the will of the Lord, and to observe the rule, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." While perhaps none of us in this mortal state can quite fulfill this commandment, we can at least come nearer to this condition by constantly improving our minds and following the example of the Master.
Kind words are like healing balm to those in sorrow or in trouble.
Smiles and a cheerful countenance are helpful.
In the seventy-two years since this organization was established thousands have been thus benefited but those who have ministered to the needy, the sick and the suffering have received even greater blessing in their own hearts and souls than have those to whom they have ministered.
We hold that the best education for women and girls is that which they gain through charity and benevolence; one cannot too deeply appreciate the benefits and results of mingling together in these works of love and usefulness.
To enter into any dissertation that would give even a faint idea of the work itself as a whole, would require pages of manuscript; "the half can never be told." But as a Society we are trying to gain from time to time more details of this work and to establish facts that will strengthen the faith of the younger generation and lead them to follow in the footsteps of those who laid the foundation upon which they may build more effectively in the future.
The first woman's jubilee that we have knowledge of was held in the great Tabernacle in this city March 17, 1892, when Zina D.
H.
Young presided and made the opening address.
Her counselors, Sisters Jane S.
Richards and Bathsheba W.
Smith, each spoke eloquently upon the beneficial work in which they were engaged and in the organizing of which they had traveled so extensively.
Some of us who were younger wrote papers that were read by Apostle Abraham H.
Cannon.
Previous to this letters had been sent to all parts of the world where the Relief Society had been organized, asking that the seventeenth of March be celebrated as a Jubilee day at the same time that we observed the day here in the United States.
We may truly say, therefore, that this Jubilee encircled the world.
There were present at the great meeting in this city and participating in the exercises.
President Joseph F.
Smith, who offered prayer at high noon Apostles John Henry Smith, ; Abraham H.
Cannon, James E.
Talmage and President Angus M.
Cannon, who also offered prayer.
There were many other notable men and women present.
BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 3 In three years from now will be another Jubilee, the seventy-fifth anniversary; and perhaps the event will be celebrated with greater magnificence than even the first jubilee.
Many of those who participated in that memorable occasion in 1892, even among the younger ones, have joined the innumerable company on the other side.
But we who are living should continue to testify and prove ourselves diligent in encouraging the generation of younger women, who have all the advantages of this wonderful age, to hold steadfast to the truths revealed through the great prophet, seer and revelator Joseph Smith.
Our 3'ounger women should be valiant in proclaiming the truths which have been revealed, in defending the faith and bearing record of those who laid the foundation of the principles for which we stand today.
It is a notable fact that as a people Mormon women have  always voted in a Church capacity the same as men whereas at that early time when the Church was in its infancy, no other people except the Quakers enjoyed that privilege.
Looking forward into the future years, with the larger opportunities and the enlightenment of the people, what may not be expected of those who are living today? "When one looks at the many activities in which Mormon women of the  present day are taking part social, political, intellectual and  religious one is compelled to believe that no agency has done more towards correcting the morals and awakening latent thought and promoting self-helpfulness than the Relief Society of "Mormon Women." Being among the first, if not the very first of its kind, it has rendered signal service from its inception seventy-two years ago.
Its founders an^ first members  have long since passed away not one now remains but the: writer of this brief paper has heard the story often repeated by those who were present at the time of the organization and were active in performing the works of charity and benevolence enjoined during the early stages of the work.
Perhaps there is no one now living more familiar with the work in the beginning than the writer; and it is her strongest desire that our young women of today be made to comprehend the work of the early members who, without the facilities of the present time, comforted the sad and distressed, visited the widow and fatherless, and were like ministering angels going hither and thither on their errands of mercy and compassion.
The Lord must have been very near to the women at that early period and braced them up for the new duty which had been given them of such great value to humanity.
Nauvoo the beautiful, on the bank of the Mississippi, was a swampy country.
Steamboats coming from New Orleans 4 brought the foreign emigrants, many of whom were sick when they landed and required constant care and special attention.
But great faith was exercised not only by the converts, but also by those who ministered among them; instances of the power of God were shown.
To be sure, the Prophet Joseph Smith assisted and advised the women workers, as did other great men of that day; and they officiated according to the pattern given them by the leaders of the Church.
In the light of the twentieth century it is difficult to realize what these heroines had to encounter; but the recollection of their experiences and a comparison with the advantages of the present should appeal to the better nature and higher aspirations of all now engaged in the glorious work, and fill them with determination to render even more active service working; heart and soul and without thought of ceasing for the betterment of the race. "Till the war-drums throb no longer, and the battle-flags are furled In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world." Emmeline B.
Wells.