Pictures Through Life's Window?A Girl Of Yesterday A Short, Short Story, by G. H. Williams
A lovely girl, small for her eighteen years, stood under the beech trees of one of England's beautiful, old estates. Her gaze wandered over the smooth lawn that reached down to a tiny lake sparkling and gleaming in the spring sunshine. Bright flowers and choice roses bordered the walks. Soft music drifted from within the fine, old house. The girl, dressed in lavender silk, with tiny lavender slippers and parasol to match, had just returned from a social engagement. She paused, as she so often did, to admire the lovely place of her birth?her home, the home of her father and his father's father. How she loved it! What treasured memories and traditions clung about it.
"I wonder if anything can ever tempt me to leave it," she murmured.
A tall, young man, wearing a "Prince Albert" coat and high silk hat, approached unnoticed. He carried missionary tracts and a Book of Mormon. His appearance startled the girl, and her small hands, like white butterflies, fluttered to her heart. He looked into violet eyes filled with laughter.
"I am sorry if I frightened you, but I have a message to deliver," he said.
A young wife, small to be pulling the heavy handcart with her husband, walked mile after weary mile over plains and mountains, until finally they entered a valley that looked barren and desolate in the heat of the summer sunshine.
"Will Father ever forgive me?" the weary girl asked her husband.
"I hope so, dear," he murmured, seeing the brave, violet eyes filmed with tears, the small hands brown and calloused, the clothes tattered and worn.
A young mother, dressed in rough homespun, rocked a homemade cradle in a crude, log cabin. Her hands flew like brown moths over her work as the shining knitting needles flashed in and out. Autumn sunshine slanted through the tiny window, making patterns on the earthen floor. The violet eyes were filled with faith and sweet contentment, as she sang an English lullaby to the sleeping babe.
Wild roses grew beside the door.
An old lady, small and bent with her eighty years, sat before an open fireplace. Flowers bloomed in a window box. Outside, the shrubs and flowers were covered with snow. Winter sunshine glimmered through a large window and formed a halo of her silvery hair. Her hands, like brown, withered blossoms, lay on an open book of completed genealogy. The eyes that had been violet were faded and dim. She looked at the aged man, dreaming before the radio that filled the room with soft strains of Love's Old Sweet Song. Closing the Book of Remembrance with a small sigh of contentment, she said, "It was worth the sorrow and hardship."