Index To Advertisors
Deseret Book Company Outside Back Cover
Larkin Mortuary Outside Back Cover
L. D. S. Business College Inside Back Cover
Relief Society General Board Inside Back Cover
The Fisher Master Bakers Inside Back Cover
Utah Power & Light Co Inside Back Cover
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 28 FEBRUARY, 1941 No. 2
Contents
Special Features
Tribute to Abraham Lincoln Robert G. Ingersoll 77
Frontispiece—Abraham Lincoln 78
Woman's Centennial Congress Julia A. F. Lund 79
Some Aspects of Child Welfare Leona B. Fetzer 87
The Old Order Changeth Ivy Williams Stone 91
Visiting Teacher's Individual Preparation (October, 1940, Conference Address) Ethel B. Andrew 107
Fiction
Formerly Hester Olive C. Wehr 098
Things More Important Mrs. A. H. Gibbons 109
Pictures Through Life's Window—A Girl of Yesterday G. H. Williams 145
General Features
Some Literary Friends ("The Inferiority Feeling'') Florence Ivins Hyde 102
Happenings Annie Wells Cannon 117
Editorial:
Appreciation 118
Washington and Lincoln 119
Washington's Prayer 119
120
Radio Program Recommended 120
Hymns to be Sung 120
Second Edition of Relief Society Song Book 120
Notes From the Field Vera W. Pohlman 121
Excerpts from the Sermons and Writings of President Heber J. Grant (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp) 125
Lessons
Theology and Testimony—Obedience—President Heber J. Grant 126
Visiting Teacher—Home Training for a Mission 129
Work and Business—Refreshing Refreshments 130
Literature—Song of Years and Summary of Entire Course 132
Social Service—Do Our Neighbors Like Us? 137
Mission—The Building of a Commonwealth 141
Poetry
Abraham Lincoln From the London Punch, May 6, 1865 76
Remembering Lincoln Vesta P. Crawford 86
Edith E. Anderson 106
Pearl H. Redford 108
Mabel Jones 116
Lucille Waters Mattson 146
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
Abraham Lincoln Foully assassinated April 14, 1865 (From the London Punch, May 6, 1865)
You lay a wreath on murdered LINCOLN'S bier; You, who with mocking pencil wont to trace, Broad for the self-complacent British sneer, His length of shambling limb, his furrowed face, His gaunt, gnarled hands, his unkempt, bristling hair, His garb uncouth, his bearing ill at ease, His lack of all we prize as debonair, Of power or will to shine, of art to please: You, whose smart pen backed up the pencil's laugh, Judging each step as though the way were plain: Reckless, so it could point its paragraph, Of chief's perplexity, or people's pain.
Beside this corpse, that bears for winding-sheet The Stars and Stripes he lived to rear anew, Between the mourners at his head and feet, Say, scurril-jester, is there room for you?
Yes, he had lived to shame me from my sneer, To lame my pencil, and confute my pen; To make me own this hind of princes peer, This rail-splitter a true-born king of men. My shallow judgment I had learnt to rue Noting how to occasion's height he rose, How his quaint wit made home-truth seem more true, How, iron-like, his temper grew by blows. How humble yet how hopeful he could be; How in good fortune and in ill the same; Nor bitter in success, nor boastful he; Thirsty for gold nor feverish for fame. He went about his work—such work as few Ever had laid on head and heart and hand— As one who knows, where there's a task to do, Man's honest will must Heaven's good grace command; Who trusts the strength will with the burden grow, That God makes instruments to work His will, If but that will we can arrive to know, Nor tamper with the weights of good and ill. So he went forth to battle on the side That he felt clear was liberty's and right's, As in his peasant boyhood he had plied His warfare with rude nature's thwarting mights. The uncleared forest, the unbroken soil, The iron bark, that turns the lumberer's axe, The rapid, that o'bears the boatman's toil, The prairie, hiding the mazed wanderer's tracks, The ambushed Indian, and the prowling bear. Such were the needs that helped his youth to train; Rough culture, but such trees large fruit may bear, If but their stocks be of right girth and grain. So he grew up, a destined work to do, And lived to do it; four long-suffering years' Ill-fate, ill-feeling, ill-report, lived through, And then he heard the hisses change to cheers, The taunts to tribute, the abuse to praise, And took both with the same unwavering mood; Till, as he came on light, from darkling days, And seemed to touch the goal from where he stood. Sribute Jo Abraham Lincoln The great infidel, Robert G. Ingersoll, paid the following tribute to Abraham Lincoln: Wl E know now that he not only stood at the top, but that he occupied the center, from first to last, and that he did this by reason of his intelligence, his humor, his philosophy, his courage and his patriotism. "In passion's storm he stood, unmoved, patient, just and candid. In his brain there was no cloud, and in his heart no hate. He longed to save the South as well as North, to see the Nation one and free. "He lived until the end was known. He lived until the Confederacy was dead—until Lee surrendered, until Davis fled, until the doors of Libby Prison were opened, until the Republic was supreme. "He lived until Lincoln and Liberty were united forever. "He lived to cross the desert—to reach the palms of victory—to hear the murmured music of the welcome waves. "He lived until all loyal hearts were his—until the history of his deeds made music in the souls of men—until he knew that on Columbia's Calendar of worth and fame his name stood first. He lived until there remained nothing for him to do as great as he had done. "What he did was worth living for, worth dying for. 'He lived until he stood in the midst of universal Joy, beneath the outstretched wings of Peace—the foremost man in all the world. 'And then the horror came. Night fell on noon. The Savior of the Republic, the breaker of chains, the liberator of millions, he who had 'assured freedom to the free,' was dead. "Upon his brow Fame placed the immortal wreath, and for the first time in the history of the world a Nation bowed and wept. "The memory of Lincoln is the strongest, tenderest tie that binds all hearts together now, and holds all States beneath a Nation's flag." From Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln, edited by John G. Nicolay and John Hay, which in turn was taken from the Dresden Edition of The Complete Works of Robert Ingersoll. ABRAHAM LINCOLN From a portrait taken from life by Charles A. Barry in Springfield, Illinois, June, 1860 | The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 FEBRUARY, 1941 No.