Literature THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 8
Song of Years and Summary of Entire Course (Tuesday, May 20, 1941)
LESSON TOPICS:
1. Brief review
2. The plot of the novel
3. The theme of the novel
4. Some selected quotations
5. Statements about the course
REVIEW
In the last lesson, the author of
 ?FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
Song of Years, Bess Streeter Aldrich, was introduced, and mention was made of others of her novels which have contributed to the pleasure and cultural growth of the readers. The setting of the story of Song of Years was discussed?the fact that the old home region of the author afforded the background for this story, and that the time was the important Civil War period in American history. The relationship between setting and character was mentioned, and the similarity was drawn between the pioneer setting of Song of Years and conditions in our own pioneer days in Utah. The chief characters were named, and some of their outstanding traits were mentioned: Wayne Lockwood who came from the East to find land he could call his own; Suzanne Martin, youngest of the seven Martin sisters, a tender friend, who, though a dreamer, had the courage to claim her own happiness when the great moment of Wayne's belated return from war came; her father, lovable Jeremiah, who was always talking, always helping someone, always working for American dreams; her mother, Sarah, who was sharp-tongued, scolding, but a genuine, capable, efficient helpmeet under pioneering conditions. Besides these, there are many minor characters in the book, each a distinct personality, contributing something to our knowledge of human nature and adding interest to the novel.
PLOT
Song of Years is the story of the growth of a part of America during a critical period in the history of the nation. It is also, fictionally, the
133
love story of Suzanne Martin. The novel begins with a description of Red Cedar Valley in which nearly a century ago lay the tiny settlements from which grew two modern cities. Then we are taken to a cemetery, between the two cities, where the first settlers had been laid to rest. The author says that because those buried there were all related by blood or neighborhood ties, the life of one in its bare outline was the life of all. "But what of those other things?the loving, hating, feuding?all of the emotions that were stilled when the last old settler was brought here?" In the light of those, "The life of one can never be the life of all." We are invited to read the names on the headstones. On one is the inscription: "Suzanne, Beloved Wife of," with the rest of the inscription overcovered with woodbine. "Reading the inscription chiseled long ago, it seems of such small consequence whose name is hidden under the vines. But, oh, to Suzanne it mattered so very, very much. This is the love story of the Suzanne who lies here by the side of the curving graveled path."
The story then begins with the coming to Red Cedar Valley, in 1854, of Wayne Lockwood, who traveled long miles with his dreams to a new land. Almost as soon as he claims his land with his unique marriage ceremony, he meets the man who is to be his antagonist throughout the story. Cady Bedson wants the same land Wayne has just "married." Later, he also wants the same woman?and he almost gets both. Suzanne rides with her father to welcome the young stranger to Red Cedar Valley, and from her first sight of the strong-limbed, clear-eyed young homesteader she begins to build castles in the air in which he figures. Wayne's acceptance of Suzanne merely as a little friend to whom he can confide even his infatuation for another girl and whom he can use as a messenger to promote his love for the aristocratic Carlie only adds to the intensity of Suzanne's inner conflict. Her discovery that her own sister Emily also loves him brings another element into her struggle. When Wayne's infatuation for a time dominates him so that it dulls his sense of patriotism to the point that he can see others going to fight for their country but will not himself volunteer, Suzanne is troubled.
The climax of the story comes with Suzanne's discovery of Carlie's duplicity, her use of Wayne as a blind to her parents in order that she may consummate an elopement with a former lover of whom they disapprove. Suzanne's desire to save Wayne from the hurt of his loss of Carlie reveals her depth of character and the quality of her own love. One of the highlights of the story is the scene in which Suzanne struggles through the terrific storm to get to Wayne so he can save his sheep. Half frozen and exhausted when she reaches him, she is forced, because of the wildness of the storm, to remain in his cabin all night. The delicate way in which the author handles this situation?Wayne caring for Suzanne as her father or brother would have done, despite the fact that he discovers that he loves her?shows Mrs. Aldrich's mastery of her art.
Then comes Wayne's awakening, symbolized by the theme in "The Song of a Thousand Years." He sings the song after the fundamentals of his character begin to shape themselves into their old unity following the chaos of his experience with Carlie. His enlistment and departure for war, the momentary pause of the train when he kisses Suzanne goodbye, later the report of his death, Suzanne's long months of silent suffering, her final consent to marry Cady, and the quick finale in which Wayne unexpectedly returns home on the night of her wedding and Suzanne eagerly rushes to his cabin to claim her belated happiness are the incidents which form the skeleton of the plot.
There are many other threads interwoven in the story. As the author says in the first chapter: "This is the love story of Suzanne... (but) the telling must include, perforce, the story of those others who lie beside her at the end of the trail." THE THEME By the theme of a novel is meant the central idea which the story unfolds or the center of interest around which it is built. In this novel, the title and the theme are climaxed in the song Wayne is heard singing when the story is more than three-fourths told, "The Song of a Thousand Years." The Martins are gathered around the lighted lamps, Sarah is sewing carpet rags, Martin is reading the news that more troops have been called for, the girls are busy at various homely tasks. "There was only silence now. Sarah had no acid to feed the monster that lay crouching there in the south.... Suzanne, leaning against the door, had been hearing for some time what suddenly they all stopped to hear, 

 ?FEBRUARY, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT Wayne Lockwood singing?Wayne who had not sung for so long a time: "Tell the great world these blessed tidings; Yes and be sure the bondsman hears: Tell the oppressed of every nation Jubilee lasts a thousand years. "What if the clouds one little moment Hide the blue sky when morn appears, When the bright sun that tints them crimson Rises to shine a thousand years. "Haste thee along, thou glorious noonday Oh, for the eyes of ancient seers. Oh, for the faith of him who reckons Each of his days a thousand years." To each of those listening, the song touched the spring of some hidden dream that linked them with the world of the ideal. To Jeremiah, it was a song of patriotism, giving faith that everything would come out all right. To Sarah, it was a song of memory, opening her eyes to a beauty in her hard life she had never seen before. 'Io Emily, it was a prayer that life would not pass her. By. To Phoebe Lou, it was a thanksgiving for her son and a dedication to his future. To the singer himself, it was a song of strength, stripping from him the weaknesses which had fettered him. To Suzanne, it was a song of love, exalting her emotion to any needed sacrifice. And so "The Song of a Thousand Years" brought to the characters who heard it, and brings to the readers who share their reactions, a realization of the idealism which is woyen in subdued colors all through the tapestry of this story. 'That is the value this book gives in a time when we are in sore need of such a value. ' Never has the world been in greater need of faith and dreams, of something above and beyond the terrifying surfaces of life to reach for and 135 cling to. Literature which helps to give that needed succor to floundering souls has a place beside the greatest. So when a critic declares this novel to be "a story of neighborly kindness, of simple faith, profoundly feminine fiction," perhaps he is unconsciously paying the book, and the women who like it, a real compliment. CHOICE QUOTATIONS There are many splendid passages in the novel worthy of note because of their sound and wholesome philosophy, their humor, and their stylistic charm. A few examples follow: Again and again Jeremiah says to his children: "This is what I always want you children to remember. Pull yourselves on through. No matter what you get stuck in.... Do your own thinkin'?your own decidin'... Then put your neck to the yoke and do your own pullin'." After Jeremiah has been nominated as state representative, he returns home from the convention and casually reports the other nominations. Sarah says she thought the most important office was that of the representative. "It was," he agrees. "Didn't they nominate?" "They did." "Well, is it a big secret? Did they make you promise not to tell?... Who is he?" "Madame, you have slept with him for thirty-two years,": The first break in the Martin family comes with the marriage of Phoebe. Suzanne thinks of this change in their happy relationships. "She could hear the prolonged plaintive wail of a mourning-dove, thinking again as she ran how you never noticed their call unless vou were sad.... Why, maybe they would never all be together again after tonight.... Never! Her hand was at her throat which was throbbing as though it were trying to answer the mourning-dove's call." SUMMARY OF SOME POINTS IN THE COURSE The eight lessons on the three novels which comprise the course suggest some of the values to be had from a study of literature. As was stated in the beginning, the great inclusive value we get from reading is a broadening of our limited experiences in life through the opportunity of sharing vicariously the experiences of artists who see more deeply and truly into life and feel more intensively than we do. The value of each such experience rests, ordinarily, upon its complexity ? whether or not it adds something to the experiences we already have had. Great masterpieces are said to have intellectual, emotional, and ethical values in the experiences recorded. That is, we learn facts which widen our intellectual horizons, such as facts about a past period of time, facts about the manners, customs, and ideals of people remote from us in time or space. We have our emotions deepened by sharing the feelings of characters who are stirred by the great fundamental passions we may never actually know, such as the agony of a misguided girl like Hetty Sorrel in Adam Bede or the remorse of a father who has embittered his own and his son's life because of a deformity, as did Matthew Howard in The Tree of Liberty, or the joy of a girl like Suzanne in Song of Years, who has mourned the loss of the dearest one in life and has him restored as from the dead. We have our ethical sense made more clear and meaningful by seeing the courage of men and women fighting and sacrificing for their principles, as did Jefferson, Peyton, and others in The Tree of Liberty, and as Adam Bede and Dinah Morris did in Adam Bede. As stated by Matthew Arnold, great writers "see life steadily and see it whole." Reading their transcriptions of life should help us to see it so. If literature is thus closely related to life, why not let it give us of its values? When we read a poem why not ask, "What value did I get from that besides the pleasure of the music or imagery?" Perhaps one answer would be, "It has given me an outlet for my own emotions. I have often felt that way, but I didn't know how to say it." Perhaps another answer might be, "It has helped me to see a new glory or a 'profound meaning in something commonplace. I would never have noticed this had the poet not pointed it out to me." When dramas and novels are read perhaps we can say, "I understand people better for having perceived the motives which made these created characters what they are. I even understand myself better, my prejudices and hopes." Maybe we may say, "This piece of literature holds up before me an ideal?if not a great ideal to guide my whole life, at least a lesser one, a little candle to light a day or an hour." Only if we consciously seek for the values to be found in the reading of good literature shall we find them. The same book may be read to fill an idle hour and forgotten, or it may be read with a purpose which may 

 ?FEBRUARY, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT give us a new meaning and appreciation for the best that life offers. Study Helps 1. A number of the most interesting episodes in the book might be assigned to be given in detail. Suggested: Wayne's determined trip to Dubuque to register for his land, related in chapters 2 and 3; the Indian scare, telated in chapters 8 and 15; hard times, told in chapter 17; Suzanne's experience in the storm, chapter 31. 2. Discuss some of the interesting evoThe following are | 137 lutions recorded; such as, lighting?from candles to gas, transportation, education, etc. 3. Describe some of the household tasks pictured in the novel, or other social customs almost unknown to us now; such as, weddings, Christmas festivities, etc. 4. Discuss the influence of such a book as Song of Years on the average reader as compared with that of some stark naturalistic novel of which there are so many. 5. What in the study of the three novels of the course has been particularly pleasing or stimulating to you?