Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Lesson 7 Family Relationships Do Our Neighbors Like Us? (Tuesday, May 27, 1941) THAT the attitude our neighbors have toward us is important is implied in our willingness to give serious consideration to the subject. Parallel with our concern as to whether our neighbors like us should come equal regard for the nature of our attitudes toward our neighbors, since the attitude of neighborliness is founded upon a relationship of interdependence and reciprocity. Unless we wish to live isolated lives, we must look upon neighbors as one of the inevitables of life much as we look upon taxes and death. At no period has it been more obvious than at the present time that we cannot live and let the rest of the world go by. E. A. Ross tells us that in more primitive times the neighbor (the nigh one) was looked upon as man's natural succor and defender. The greater the danger felt by householders from sheep stealers, cattle rustlers, horse thieves, robbers, etc., the sharper was their sense of dependence upon one another, the more united they became, and the stronger was their loyalty to the group. Nowhere can we find more appealing examples of genuine neighborliness than are recorded in the history of our own Pioneers. It is doubtful that they could have succeeded in laying so firm a foundation for our great state without the actual practices based on the true spirit of neighborliness, which was one of the outstanding characteristics of their daily lives. True, times have changed. The advancement in the means of communication and transportation have resulted in compulsory changes in all human relationships, and in none more than in neighborly relationships. Today instead of "running in" to chat with a neighbor for a few minutes, we get in our car and drive several miles to say "how do you do" to a friend, or we pass on some bit of news over the telephone to friends living miles away. 'The Lynds in Middletown report the wife of one of the workers as saying, "Our neighbors used to be good friends, and we had lots of good times together, but in the last seven or eight years all that's gone. People don't pay much attention to each other any more." We are not criticizing such practices and surely do not wish to imply a desire to return to an earlier period of cultural development, but we do wish to emphasize the fact that neighbors are inevitable; that they constitute an important factor in our environment; that they exert a powerful influence over the development of our children; that this influence may be harmful or beneficial according to whether the attitudes are positive or negative; that the influence exists in spite of the fact that we may not be neighborly with our neighbors, and that in every neighborhood there are problems that can be solved only through the cooperation of everyone. In a study made of the special problems of city living, sponsored by the Child Study Association of America, one-half of the 188 families interviewed reported that they selected their present dwellings because of the desirability of the neighborhood. A desirable neighborhood to most of these mothers meant one which provided children with whom they were willing to have their own. Children associate. Many families admitted that they had accepted several inconveniences within the house in order that they might live in a desirable neighborhood. As previously indicated, we may refrain from being neighborly with our neighbors by ignoring them or by showing antagonistic attitudes, but that does not alter the fact that they influence our lives. Living near people without neighboring with them is likely to beget bickering. If it is necessary for parents to explain to their children why they do not associate with their neighbors, it will probably be difficult for those parents to instill into the minds and hearts of their children the principles of cooperation, toleration, unselfishness, the spirit of community welfare, and other principles and attitudes fundamental to successful living in a democracy. Is there a neighborhood to be found in which there are not problems pertaining to health, housing, recreation, education, sanitation, beautification, and so forth? The extent to which any problem in a neighborhood can be solved depends largely upon the degree of cooperation of neighbors. Only through acquaintance may an understanding be built up among those who should cooperate in order to cope with neighborhood problems. We have attempted to establish the fact that neighbors are inevitable and that they constitute an important factor in our social environment. Now we suggest that of all our human relationships those which are most satisfying and which serve as a source of joy and pleasure in our lives are those in which we find 

 ?FEBRUARY, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT a generous offering of harmonious cooperation directed toward the common welfare.. Therefore, our neighbors must cooperate with us and we must cooperate with our neighbors if we are to like them and enjoy daily life in the particular neighborhood in which we live. In evaluating ourselves as neighbors we might ask ourselves the following questions: 1. Do I impose upon my neighbors either in appropriating too much of their time or material things? 2. Do I know how and when to accept favors from my neighbors and how to repay them? 3. Do I cause my neighbors to feel obligated to me by forcing favors upon them? 4. How do I get along with the children in the neighborhood? 5. Am I too intimate with my neighbors, realizing that too many of my neighbors' confidences may spoil friendship later on? 6. Do my neighbors think I am a snob? 7. Do I appreciate my neighbors for what they are, or do I tend to put them in a category according to what they have? 8. Do I forgive the trespasses of the children of my neighbors as I expect them to forgive the trespasses of my own children? 9. Do I "knock" my neighborhood and at the same time refuse to cooperate in attempting to improve conditions? 10. Am I willing to go fifty per cent of the way (or even seventy-five per cent if necessary) to become acquainted with my neighbors? These are only a few of the questions which we should consider if we are interested in and appreciate the values that we may enjoy from being a member of a neighborly neighborhood. Also, we may profit much from considering behavior that is responsible for the lack of neighborly relations. We suggest a few neighbor- 139 hood antagonizers sometimes perpetrated by thoughtless and inconsiderate neighbors: 1. Turning on the radio double forte volume late at night or early in the morning. 2. Honking an automobile horn late at night or early in the morning.. "Running in" to use the telephone while the family is having a meal or after the family has retired, or imposing upon the family by using the telephone too frequently. 4. Permitting our children to run across neighbors' gardens or porches, or to play in their yard uninvited. 5. Permitting our dogs or other animals to trespass on our neighbors' property. 6. Constantly reporting trifling misdemeanors of children to their parents. 7. Having uncovered garbage containers in our yard or throwing garbage about in the yard which draws flies and causes disagreeable odors. 8. Making an unnecessary noise when returning home during the late night or early morning hours. 9. Leaving the automobile in a driveway supposed to be used by others. 10. Criticizing the manner in which our neighbors manage their children and telling them how much better we do the job. 11. Eavesdropping on our neighbors and repeating what we hear or see to others. 12. Being careless by permitting unsightly and hazardous conditions to exist in our own yard which serve as a constant menace to the children in the neighborhood. The following are a few practices which have resulted in promoting neighborly good will: 1. Mrs. A reported that the group of mothers in her neighborhood whose children played together agreed that they would not report the little things children did, but the mother in whose yard the difficulty arose would handle the situation 2. Mrs. B's family has necessarily moved frequently because of the nature of Mr. B's occupation. She has followed the rule, when moving into a new neighborhood, of listening with great discrimination to what she is told about various people who live in nearby houses. She is very suspi- 140 cious of the neighbor who wants to tell her about all the other neighbors, because such a one usually has an ax to grind. 3. Mrs. C lives in a neighborhood in which there are no available houses for rent, few changes have occurred as far as mobility is concerned within the last fifteen years. The families are all friendly, and Mrs. C thinks the agreement they have in regard to borrowing contributes much to their friendly relationship. The rule they follow is: "Never borrow unless necessary and always pay back as soon as possible." 4. Mrs. D lives in a neighborhood similar to the one Mrs. C livesin. The unique practice in the D group is to have two neighborhood parties each year?a picnic party in the summer with parents and children, and a dinner party for parents only during the month of December. The December party is held at one of the homes, and everyone helps with the preparation of the dinner. Often neighborly "get-togethers" are held in addition to the two traditional events. 5. Mrs. E suggests that cooperation and uniformity among parents concerning the use of the automobiles by the children has increased unity and friendliness in her neighborhood. 'This particular problem was acute because five families who owned automobiles had sons and daughters between the ages of 15 and 17 years, all of whom were "pals." She said the result of coming to an agreement in regard to one problem stimulated similar action concerning other common problems. 6. An unusually interesting practice is that in the F neighborhood. Mr. F's inheritance was sufficient to provide opportunities for the proper rearing of four sons and a daughter. However, the reputation of the neighborhood in which he had to live was not very good. Because of the activities of a more or less unruly gang of boys who dominated a small park and playground located in the center of the district, it was known as an. Undesirable neighborhood for any youngster not a member of the gang. A careful survey of the situation convinced the F family that the advantages of living in their newly acquired home were greater than the disadvantages, since the negative aspects seemed to consist largely of a social problem which could be remedied. The task of handling the human relationship problems was assigned to Mrs. F. Briefly, this is 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY, 1941

 what she did: After securing all the information possible about each member of the gang and their activities, she contacted the gang through seeking its assistance in finding the parties guilty of using her backyard as a dumping ground for tin cans, etc. She stressed her inability to solve the problem because of her ignorance of things conceming the neighborhood, and the ability of the gang to handle it because of its knowledge of conditions and its influence in the area. Immediately good. Cooperation was forthcoming, and soon the problem was successfully solved. Thea she sought the advice and help of the gang in assisting her two eldest sons to plan and construct a tennis court in the back yard. Its cooperation was further sought in other things. Soon the two F boys had a rather high status of membership in the gang. Mrs. F cautiously moved step by step winning her way into the confidence of the gang. As soon as she thought it advisable, she suggested some kind of a junior community organization for dealing with neighborhood problems of all types. A plan evolved gradually as interest increased among adults as well as youngsters. Mrs. F contributed much time and energy in the beginning, but later her responsibilities were decreased, because the gang decided to elect one adult man and one adult woman every six months to serve as counselors in the respective positions designated as Big Chief and Great Dame. (These are probably not titles adults would have chosen, but they are titles that stand for dignity and respect as far as the youngsters are concerned.) It was not until the second year that girls were given any consideration and the position of Great Dame was created. Space does not permit a detailed account of the activities of the group; suffice it to say that Mrs. F says the atmosphere of the neighborhood has completely changed, neighborhood pride takes first rank as the outstanding attitude of each member of the gang, and no problem seems too great for them to concern themselves with. In addition to making the environment of the neighborhood safer and more desirable, the children are learning first hand a great deal concerning the art of living. In the interest of space, even though it be at the expense of unity, LESSON DEPARTMENT we conclude with a quotation on gossip from James Lee Ellenwood's book, There's No Place Like Home, pp. 113-114: "Should we gossip about our neighbors? Surely. Why not? Without malice, of course, but frankly. If somewhere a baby is coming, if Eddie has a new job... If... Company is visiting the Brown's... We should mention it. Most of us have some "Walter Winchell' in us, and I never believe people who say, 'I never gossip.' Nor is it true that the best gossip takes place in the rural community. City people are experts, too. In our house, Grandma is the most delightful observer and reporter. She has done more to interest me in the neighbors than any admonition on neighborliness.... She never gossips outside the family, and she punctuates her observations with chuckles, never sneers. Because we talk about our neighbors, we all know they talk about us, and that makes us a bit more careful." Problems and Questions 1. Give suggestions on how each of the ten neighborhood antagonizers listed might be corrected without causing neighborhood 141 friction. If you were the guilty neighbor, how would you react to the suggestions given by the class for correcting these problems? 2. If a neighbor is very undesirable to you, what course should you pursue? Why is it impossible to shut out his influence by merely refusing to be neighborly? What is our responsibility to the undesirable neighbor? 3. If a neighbor imposes upon your neighborliness, what may be done to prevent this and at the same time retain his friendship? 4. Select from your own experience a neighborhood problem that has been successfully solved and relate how this was accomplished. 5. What do you consider the outstanding characteristics of a good neighbor? How may these be developed? 6. Make a list of values that accrue from living among good neighbors. References St. Luke 10:25-37. James Lee Ellenwood, There's No Place Like Home, Chapter 9. "Are Neighbors Necessary?" American Mercury, November, 1936; Reader's Digest, December, 1936. "Eavesdroppers in Eden," Scribners, October, 1936; Reader's Digest, November, 1936. "How to Get On With Neighbors," American Magazine, January, 1936. "What My Neighbors Mean to Me," American Magazine, February, 1924.