PIONEER TINTYPE Edith E. Anderson
Before me now your likeness lies, Dim the years and overlaid With my unanswered questionings. Brave mother-face, you must not fade Unheralded into the past, You in your bonnet quaintly styled, Imprinted on this tintype, old And worn with loving handling, filed For still remembrance in a trunk....
Your slender youthful loveliness, Bright sea-blue eyes and raven hair; The trials and the great redress, And your unconquered gayety; Your faith in traveling so far, Your wisdom in relinquishing The past and following the star Of new-found hope and life belief....
You would not write of these; you did Not keep held safe in words for us Your triumphs nor your tears; you hid Yourself almost from all acclaim Beneath those elemental days, Those spinning, weaving, baking years And patient, serving mother ways.
Now I must ask your living sons To utter what your face implies— The unbroken secret of your strength, The substance of your unseen prize, What compass held you to your course, And how your anguished mother heart Continued beating when you watched, On ship, the boards rock-weighted start
Into the sea's oblivion with The still forms of your little ones; And how you turned your grieving glance From burying waves to face the suns Of a trail foot-marked and tortuous; Then how you built, to bear and rear Eight children more in faith sublime....
Should the sole remains, a voiceless bier, Of your nobility be this: One fading wordless print on tin? Not while I bless your heritage, Brave pioneer, I shall begin
To trace with a pen your pilgrimage, That my grandchildren, questioning, Shall not walk uninspired by you, Through darkness, always wondering.
Visiting Teachers' Individual Preparation Ethel B. Andrew Relief Society General Board Member (Conference Address, October 2, 1940)
DID Joseph Smith see the far-reaching possibilities for the women of the Church when he organized the Relief Society in 1842? When he told those eighteen women assembled there that day that they were to manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality, care for the sick and unfortunate, minister where death reigns, assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life, foster love for religion, education, culture, and refinement, develop faith, etc., did he realize how much that assignment would come to mean in the lives of Relief Society women?
Nauvoo at that time was growing fast. There were no telephones, no automobiles nor street cars, no paved roads. Naturally it was impossible for the Relief Society officers to visit all those who were ill or in need, so one year after the Relief Society was organized a system of visiting the homes was instituted. The city was divided into four districts and four women were appointed to visit the families in each district and report at regular intervals to Emma Smith. This group of sixteen friendly visitors was called the Necessity Committee.
This system of visiting the homes has now become a vital part of the program of each ward organization. Every Latter-day Saint family, regardless of station or wealth, should be visited once a month by the visiting teachers of the Relief Society, who are supposed to carry greetings of love from the organization and then present a special message for the month. Since 1923, these messages for the home have been printed in the Magazine.
Ward presidents choose their visiting teachers carefully. What are the requirements of a good visiting teacher? A strong testimony of the Gospel is necessary. A visiting teacher should be discreet and never betray a confidence; she should be sympathetic and friendly. Friendship is a sacred relationship which brings aid and comfort when needed. She should be tactful, for tact is the remover of all difficulties, the magic that enables her to get along with people. She should be humble and prayerful, and never should she go out to make her calls without first asking her Heavenly Father to guide and direct her in the situations which may arise, for hers is a great responsibility. She can be a real missionary. She should carry a cheerful attitude into the homes. She should cooperate with her leaders in trying honestly and sincerely to carry out the plans that have been adopted. She must attend preparation meetings 108.  so that she will be prepared to discuss the monthly messages and swer questions. The messages this year were written especially for Latter-day Saint homes. A wise teacher will know where her special message for the month will be applicable. A friendly visiting teacher is effective in gaining new members for the Society.