HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
Now troops the jester Harlequin along his courtly way, And yet—do we forget the world is full of sorrow and dismay?
BLESSED be the world of books, that the history of the ages is preserved for the generations. Only through the written word and imperishable works of art does man know of the glory and civilization of Alexandria, Athens, Rome, Nineveh and Tyre. Today's civilization stands on the threshold of a new epoch, and the time is expedient to preserve the story of London, Paris, Vienna, Warsaw, and other great cities which now in ashes and despair await the rise of a new era.
CROWN PRINCESSES JULIANA, of the Netherlands, and Martha, of Norway, both royal refugees, visited Washington this winter and were entertained by President and Mrs. Roosevelt at the White House.
JOANNA SPRAGUE, retired Salt Lake City librarian, was recently presented with a copper plaque by The City Commission, in honor of her exceptional service of 42 years. The plaque will be placed in the public library.
ELIZABETH FITZGERALD, one of Utah's most beloved educators, retired this winter after a service of 20 years. She holds a high place in the hearts of thousands of the youth of the community for her understanding guidance.
ALICE MARBLE, noted No. 1 woman athlete for 1940, polled the largest vote of any woman athlete in the last 10 years.
LEE QUINNEY, University of Utah coed, won both runs of the woman's slalom event in the national intercollegiate ski meet at Sun Valley. She is the second winner of the Mary Cornelia trophy.
EDITH CLAWSON, gifted actress, Annie Larsen Gillespie, former librarian of Brigham Young University, Emma Nield Goddard, M. I. A. Worker, Elizabeth Ann Mullett, pioneer, and Electa S. Dixon were among the notable Latter-day Saint women claimed by Death, the great reaper, this winter.
EVELYN WILLIAMS' "The Corn Is Green" has furnished Ethel Barrymore a great dramatic success. It is acclaimed by the critics "a masterpiece."
KATHARINE CORNELL, famous monologist, appears in a new role, giving a pint of blood for plasma transfusions for Britain's war wounded.
WILLA CATHER'S latest book, "Sapphira and the Slave Girl," of the period of 1856, with a Virginia setting, and Ruth M. Underhill's "Hawk Over Whirlpools" are two vital and interesting novels of the winter. Eva Willes Wangsgaard, of Utah, and Jan Struther, English novelist, have each published a volume of verse.
 
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman