FEBRUARY, 1941 Some Aspects of Child Welfare Leona B. Fetzer EFORE the Mayflower sailed the Atlantic, children were recruited from almshouses and destitute homes and sent to the New World under apprenticeship contracts. The Virginia and other companies early found child labor commercially profitable. In the Old World, for centuries before the founding of the Colonies, vagabond orphans and children of poor parents were sold; that is, their services were disposed of for "a smaller price than the value of a terrier." Boys as young as 5 years of age were apprenticed to chimney cleaning masters for seven years. In a legal report dated 1788, one man testified that "Boys are frequently sent up Chimneys while they are on Fire; and when a Boy, at first learning, is backward in going up, it is often a Practice to light Straw, and by that Means to force him up—That he thinks Boys ought to be washed at least Once a Week; but that he knows many Instances of Boys who have served Four or Five Years without being washed at all." The Old World means of forcing the employment of children to the neglect of opportunities for wholesome development was boldly repeated in the New World, as can be seen from such documents as the Watertown, Massachusetts, records of 1727, which show how the neglected, dependent, and orphaned children were apprenticed and indentured." For long years, opponents *Grace Abbott, The Child and the State, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1938, p. 106. *Ibid., p. 213. Of child labor regulation pointed out that leisure was the root of evil, and that if children were not employed, vice would be encouraged and industry would suffer. Alexander Hamilton, in 1791, urged the fur. Therance of industry because idle children could be given work. The famous Yates Report of 1824 disclosed that a popular method of "caring" for children was to auction them off and let them out to the lowest mill and factory bidders. Hundreds of boys and girls ate and slept in the buildings where they worked. As late as 1866, children worked at night, long hours, and overtime. "Even in Lowell, where conditions were particularly favorable, little mites of ten were on duty nearly fourteen hours a day and then did household tasks and went to evening school." One John Wild testified that mill owners would "take them at any age they can get them, if they are old enough to stand... I guess the youngest is seven." Because children who worked were denied education, and because equality of opportunity was accepted as the great goal of democracy, school programs were made universally more adequate after the Civil War. Even since that time, and within the life span of some individuals. Now living, small boys and girls were harnessed to trucks in mines doing heavy manual labor, because the thrifty mine owners found that this cost less than the upkeep of a good mule. As late as 1930, the United States Census Report showed that *Ibid. 29,765 children, ten to thirteen years of age, and 167,856 children, fourteen and fifteen years of age, were in non-agricultural occupations. Sweated industries still abuse child labor. Large numbers of children continue to be employed picking cotton and working in the corn and wheat farms to the exclusion of attending school. Although at times it has seemed that those who have pled for the protection of children from labor exploitation have been crying in the wilderness, momentous strides have been made. Whereas the child was formerly treated almost like a horse or like cattle, subject matter for his parent's contract or gift, the absolute rights of the parent have given way to the rights of the child. The school attendance age has been raised, and there is an accompanying tendency to raise the employment age. A shorter working day, no night work, and the prohibition of children under eighteen and twentyone in hazardous occupations is almost universal. The pending Federal Child Labor Amendment will enable individual states to be guided in avoiding labor abuses of children. The International Labor Organization has in the past planned for international agreement on labor legislation for protection of children against exploitation in industry. As yet, conditions are not perfect, but, through the Children's Bureau, industrial and labor commissions, welfare agencies, and other organizations, the child need no longer labor in the place of a mule to the sacrifice of his mental and physical endowments and the contribution he could make to society. HE history of child labor is in many respects comparable to the history of other major problems of children. Although in most areas much has been achieved, present conditions still present a challenge. For instance, let us view the health problems of children, especially those of children living in homes where the incomes are too low to provide a minimum standard of living. Some people say that because children from destitute homes are assisted by welfare and health organizations, they get better care than do the well-to-do. However, somewhere between 450,000 and 500,000 births occur annually in families in which the annual income per family does not total $500. Eighty-six out of 100 farm mothers have their children born in their homes because of insufficient incomes and inadequate medical resources, while 71 out of 100 women in the city have hospital care. In 1936, a quarter of a million mothers did not have a physician in attendance when their babies were born.' It is well known that infant mortality is high when economic status is low, and that "children in low income groups are sick more often than other children.'" This is so because of accompanying social disorganization, such as poor housing, inadequate food, unemployment, and other factors. The lack of adequate medical care during illness and for necessary corrections of children's defects is being increasingly 'Interdepartmental Committee to Coordinate Health and Welfare Activities, "Toward Better National Health," U. S. Printing Office, 1939, p. 16. 'Ibid., p. 21.  —FEBRUARY, 1941 SOME ASPECTS OF CHILD WELFARE alleviated through the Social Security provisions for grants in aid to the states for maternal and child health and services for crippled children. The White House Conference on Child Health and Protection pointed out that thirty-five million of the _ forty-five million children under the age of 16 years in the United States are normal, and of the remaining ten million, 6,000,000 are improperly nourished 1,000,000 have defective speech 1,000,000 have weak or damaged hearts 675,000 have behavior problems 450,000 are mentally retarded 382,000 are tuberculous 300,000 are crippled 32,000 are deaf or blind 200,000 are rated as delinquent 500,000 are alleged dependent Overwhelming, too, are the child's dental needs. "The White House Conference on Child Health and Protection reported that from 96 to 98 per cent of the child population of the country suffer from dental decay, while probably 85 per cent of children suffer from major and minor defects of dental occlusion. Nutritional deficiencies were held to be the major cause of dental disease."* According to dental authorities, the average corrections needed are 5 to 6 per child. Due to developmental defects, poorly balanced and inadequate diets, poor mouth hygiene, and lack of adequate dental facilities, there is universal need for *Katharine Lenroot, "The Place of Dental Hygiene in a Maternal and Child Health Program," Journal of the American Dental Association, Volume 26, February, 1939- 89 preventive and restorative dental services. The pronounced need for dental care for pre-school children from two to five or six years of age is now definitely recognized. 'The general inadequate care given children is strikingly portrayed in the naval service figures of the last World War. Twenty-six per cent of the rejections were due to dental defects, while the next greatest disability was flat feet, with 16.5 per cent. In some legal cases, the courts have arbitrarily set the value of each tooth at $1,000. In order to conserve this asset, such facilities as are available should be utilized for children. Educational programs in preventive dentistry should be continuous. This type of education is accomplished through hygienists, classroom lectures, toothbrush drills, and other means. Dental care for both pay and free patients is provided through mobile and stationary clinics, hospitals, boards of health and education, welfare organizations, dental societies, health associations, dental schools, county boards and so on. To prevent body and dental diseases is important, and to promote mental and social health is imperative for the individual's happiness and society's welfare. The physician and the dentist no longer are interested in the child's defects alone, but they view the "whole child." The maintenance of his well-being requires a team including the child, his family, teachers, and others vitally concerned with him and his development. The aim is always to free him from hurtful factors within himself and his environment. F great moment, before as well as after the child's birth, is his family. Mentally and physically healthy families are built upon factors developed in more than one generation. Roots are deep in the past. However, many characteristics formerly attributed to heredity—often thought of as being all-important—can now be explained by environmental conditions without resorting to "mental gymnastics" on the child's family tree. According to our best authorities, children learn more in the first five years than during any equal period of their lives. Laziness is not inborn. Our children learn to be lazy by not doing anything during long. Periods of idleness. They want responsibility. At the age of 3, they should dress themselves, brush their teeth, and perform other tasks. They should be taught early and often all we know of the right way of life, and they should be helped to get into it. To learn to good advantage, they should, be guided and not allowed to pursue their ways unaided and undirected. Development is also hampered if they are placed in ready-made molds prepared by adults who do not understand their individual interests. Guidance should be a continuous process, not a dramatic, spectacular fete coming into play at times of crises. This requires a thorough. Understanding of social and emotional development. Our focus should not be upon the child as an isolated entity or on his social environment alone, but on the interplay between the two. Some of the needs for the undisturbed growth of children and some of the deepest human wants cannot be supplied by unlimited dispensing of money. The child's environment also includes the community. | Children have sought opportunities that have not been provided by this vital environment. Some of our communities are actually delinquent because' they do not afford the tangible means of activity, adventure, and. Achievement that are a part of the abundant life. 'The atmosphere could be so developed as to make it more pleasant and easier to be decent than to be indecent. Many harmful and destructive conditions in our communities could be removed forever if our dreams were translated into action, and if we were afire with a deep sense of social justice. If we say that personality enhancement is the greatest end in life, the child's sense of the worth-whileness of life at present and in the future is best developed by living in a home with a religious background. In President Roosevelt's opening address to the Conference on Children in a Democracy, he said, "We are concerned about the children who are outside the reach of religious influences and are denied help in attaining faith in an ordered universe and in the fatherhood of God." Surely, religion is a dynamic, practical force in a child's life, providing guides and ideals for right living, affording vigorous incentives and inspiring motives for right conduct, and teaching the necessity for assistance from God in meeting the stresses of life. The Savior's great concern for children and His profound regard for their potentialities points the way for us. Truly, "of such is the Kingdom of Heaven."  —FEBRUARY, 1941