The Old Order Changeth Ivy Williams Stone WAS quite young when my older brother sailed off to Cuba, and the words "Cervera's Fleet," "Kissing Hobson" and "The Battleship Oregon" dominated all conversations. I was only six months older when he returned, shed his strange new khaki uniform for heavy furlined clothing, replaced his gun with shovel and pick and dashed off to the Nome gold rush. Then the words "Stampeder," "poke" and "sourdough" became our table talk. From these early impressions, I grew up thinking Alaska was a land of glaciers and waterfalls, Eskimos and walruses, mushing dogs and snow blindness, where no vegetation ever grew and summer was only a pleasant word. Today I have just returned from Alaska, where I took my daughter to be married. Enroute to Alaska, after only eight days of continuous, comfortable travel we arrived at Anchorage, having traveled three thousand miles via train, steamer and train. The benighted ideas I had concerning the privations my daughter would face were quickly dispelled. Anchorage, site of the new army air base, is a thriving little city of thirtyfive hundred people. It is situated on the flat, wide country at the head of Cook's Inlet, about one hundred twenty-five miles inland from the seaport of Seward. It cannot be reached by steamer, as the inlet is too shallow. Taxicabs met our train; we were whisked up a wide street to a good home, where a coal stoker (an exact replica of our own) was keeping a modern house warm and inviting. Reading lamps were numerous; a high-powered short-wave tadio brought the voice of Winston Churchill from London; a twist of the dial and San Francisco spoke; the telephone rang, and the refrigerator droned. The wedding ceremony was complete with wedding cake, salted nuts, fresh candies, candles, bride's bouquet, a buttonhole bouquet for the bridegroom and a corsage for me. THE Alaska so vividly pictured for us by Jack London, Robert W. Service and Oliver Curwood is passing into romantic history. I did not see an igloo, but I ate food cooked upon a modern electric stove. I did not see a lone prospector cracking his whip over the heads of quivering dogs, but I watched a huge airliner rise and disappear into the blue, cartying an assembled mining machine weighing one thousand pounds. I did not see a kayak riding into dangerous rapids, but I rode over wide bridges that span huge rivers. I did not see any Eskimo women chewing walrus hides to make parkas for their men, but I saw young, native gitls learning to sew upon electric machines. I did not have to hoard a precious last can of condensed milk, for a dairy left fresh bottles on the back step every morning. I saw no pack trains winding into roadless hills, but I rode in a good automobile over a wide, modern highway. I ate no food that had been stored in a remote mountain cache, but I sat at a lace-covered table and was served with food from a modern refrigerator. I saw no home-hungry miner trading his "poke" for an old newspaper, but I saw dozens of alert men unlocking their boxes in a modern federal building. (And I had tucked a kerosene lamp into her baggage! ) The grizzled, lonely prospector is no more. A man may prospect alone, but an airplane drops mail and supplies to him. The quick gold seems to be exhausted. Dredges now systematically work the river beds for gold, and the rhythmic chug of modern mining machinery echoes down the hillsides of Juneau, and the fishers annually produce more than twice as much revenue as is received from the gold of Alaska. Because it rises from an elevation of only 2,000 feet, Mount McKinley is the highest mountain in the world, towering 18,000 feet above its surroundings. All Alaskans are "air minded." Huge liners ply regular routes from Fairbanks to Anchorage, from Nome to Juneau, from Seattle to Fairbanks and intermediate points. Expectant: mothers patronize the airplanes to secure hospitalization. The wards of the Government, be they Indians, Eskimos or "Aleuts," receive fine medical care, either in their native villages or in hospitals where they are sent via plane. A nurse told me the story of an Eskimo who was taken away from his native village for an appendectomy. Upon his return, he gave such glowing accounts of his treatment that within a week every Eskimo in the whole village was holding his right side, declaring he had a terrible pain! THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH ANCHORAGE is the one city in Alaska that was methodically laid out by engineers. Wide avenues, numerically numbered, run east and west. Wide streets, designated alphabetically, run north and south. Churches and lodges, drug_ stores and bakeries, a printing office and a tri-weekly newspaper, jewelry and haberdashery stores, clothing and millinery shops, a public library and two modern school buildings, eight doctors, a hospital and two banks, two dairies and two confectionery stores, numerous grocery stores, a greenhouse, a dry-cleaning establishment, a fifteen-cent store, policemen, and weekly garbage collection all combine to give Mr. Citizen of Anchorage good living conditions. (And I had insisted that she take a dozen toothbrushes with her.) The schools are earthquake proof, fire proof, air conditioned and stoker heated. Every teacher has a college degree—almost every one has a Master's degree. Every child must have a medical examination before entering school.. I saw a man who had a Master's degree from Columbia teaching native boys how to handle 93 a saw; a lady with a similar amount of training was teaching cooking and sewing. 'The Association of University Women of America has a local chapter in Anchorage. There is only one moving picture show house, and although films are naturally late in arriving, they eventually show the same good films which we see at home. Nearly all the houses are frame. Few homes have flower beds, but every home has its vegetable garden. Cabbage, cauliflower, beets, turnips, radishes, lettuce, peas, strawberries and raspberries grow rapidly and are well flavored. Every home has storm windows and doors, and bathrooms are the accepted order for all homes. I had the rare good fortune to watch an aquaplane settle on a lake by moonlight, to inspect an ancient Indian cemetery around a primitive Greek church, to see Father Hubbard, the "Glacier Priest," to inspect the huge army air base on the outskirts of the city, to observe at first hand the social and economic life of this "frontier" city. But best of all was the afternoon I spent with Mrs. Sydney Lawrence, whose famous AIRPLANE PHOTOGRAPHY REVEALS THE GRANDEUR OF THE COLUMBIA GLACIER husband had just died in his beloved Alaska. Besides being the widow of so famous an artist, Mrs. Lawrence is a very charming lady. She is an artist herself and works every day from eight to three collecting, studying and painting the wild flowers of Alaska. Her work will soon appear in book form. She is full of fascinating stories about the career of Mr. Lawrence, who, in addition to painting Mount McKinley in all its frigid beauty and the northern lights in all their iridescent colors, was a war correspondent who covered four wars! | VISITED the much discussed Matanuska Valley, which lays about fifty miles north of AnchorSUCH SCENES HAVE DISAPPEARED, BEING REPLACED WITH AIRPLANE SERVICE. Age and can be reached by rail, plane and highway. The Daughters of the. American Revolution felt this highway to be of such significance that they erected a monument to commemorate its completion. The "Matanuska Valley Project'" has its defenders and _ assailants. There are people who praise its sponsors and the results accomplished. 'There are others who claim every radish costs one hundred dollars, that every ton of hay is worth a small fortune. Judge as you choose, it is a wide valley that opens out between high mountains that are dotted with waterfalls. Whatever their problems, irrigation is NOT one of them. "In May, 1935, two hundred colonists, with their families, were transported from the United States to Alaska, and established on land in the Matanuska Valley. At first there seemed to be considerable discontent among the colonists, but by 1936 the Government announced that the colony was firmly established. THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH The virgin soil was covered with a thick growth of poor-quality timber. The top soil is nowhere more than fourteen inches deep. Below that, a hard gravel becomes a foe to agriculture. 'The barns are large, well made, modern. The houses are built on cleared land, the individual colonist having exercised his own ideas of architecture. Some of the houses have window boxes of gay nasturtiums, white curtains, carefully-stored winter fuel, neat garages. Some of the houses are unfinished, forlorn and neglected; still others are vacant, with broken windows and swinging doors. Some barns are stocked with hay and fodder against the long winter; others are open and deserted, with the wind ripping off shingles and banging doors. Some fields have been well tended; others are fallow and forsaken. Even under the best weather conditions, only one crop of alfalfa can be harvested, and that can never be "cocked" for drying, as is done in the States. Each forkful of hay must be carefully draped around a stake, in order to speed its drying. As we drove along, we saw some late peas and unripened wheat that had been frozen by an early September frost. A few horses and cows and some sheep OLD-STYLE ALASKAN CACHE Time was when the miner had to resort to this contrivance to preserve his food supply. 95 grazed in wet stubble fields. Through it all, I saw only another example of that eternal truth — a thrifty man is a thrifty man, whereever he may be. The gift of a tract of land with numerous other gratuities cannot change shiftlessness into thrift. Paradoxical as it may sound, even the thrifty farmer of Matanuska does not find a ready market for his produce. Many of the people of Anchorage and Fairbanks—his two town markets—are "outside" minded. Even as we in the States have always thought of "imported perfumery" as superior, about fifty per cent of the housewives of Alaska feel imported vegetables are better flavored. 'This strange condition, coupled with the attractive wages now being offered at the army air base, is responsible for many a deserted farm, with the family moved into town, living on imported foodstuffs purchased with the high cash wages paid by the contractors. And the airbase! It is so large it is difficult to describe it. Large tracts of virgin, flat, wooded land were surveyed and purchased from the original owners. Here a thick stubborn moss sends its roots so deep that it takes powerful tractor plows to break the soil. Five large runways are being DOCK SCENES ALONG THE INLAND PASSAGE built, with a total of one hundred buildings under construction. Fifteen hundred men work in three shifts of eight hours each. There are soldiers living in tents, waiting patiently for the still unfinished barracks. Civil engineers are battling and winning the fight against the stern Alaskan winter, the ever-shortening period of daylight, and the long distance from the base of supplies.
Naturally the sudden influx of civilians into the peaceful town of Anchorage caused a flurry in real estate and housing. The humblest sort of "a roof over our heads" goes at a premium. In fact, they are now unobtainable. Apartment-house owners increase rents without notice and demand that four months' rent be paid in advance. When two or more women meet, the conversation is never social nor gossipy. Immediately, they plunge into the one all-absorbing topic, "Do you know where we can rent a house?" Men are sleeping on cots in garages; others have sleeping bags and lie on top of pool tables. Families move in together. The hotel never changes its one sign—"No Vacancy." The owner of a vacant room can name his own price. People watch the hospital reports—perhaps someone is ill and may have to go "outside." Real estate has soared to an exorbitant price. As a rule, the newcomer cannot buy it, but offers to rent a house if the owner will build. But with a determined shake of an experienced head, he refuses. He does not want to be owning vacant houses when the airbase is finished and the population returns to normal. He knows what happened in Cordova when the Kennicott copper mines were closed. He knows that a third of the people of Juneau have moved away.
THE town of Anchorage has an intricate, complicated social life. I saw more "formals" than I ever saw; I saw more chauffeurs, fur coats and automobiles; more manicures and permanents. Ladies make formal, brief calls, leaving engraved cards. Here is one place where the outside appearance of the home cannot be used as a yardstick to judge its occupants. An unpainted clapboarded house may contain a grand piano; a lady may emerge from the house in a valuable fur coat. Hospitality is quickly offered to the newcomer. He is accepted for what he is at the moment, not for what he may have been born to. What he may have done to his discredit elsewhere is never held against him in Alaska. All Alaskans are good friends, respond quickly to a friend's needs, make liberal loans and extend credit very freely.
The arrival of each train is an event. It brings new people, parcel post mail by the ton, news of boats, roadbeds, bridges and weather. Telephone numbers have no letter prefix or suffix, but a color prefix; thus, Green 354 or Brown 199. Imagine my surprise when calling Mrs. Wright to hear central answer, after two ineffectual rings: "Oh, I forgot to tell you. She goes to the beauty shop between ten and eleven o'clock every Tuesday." Thus, your private life is known to all—never maliciously, just neighborly and friendly.
Living is high in Alaska, but wages are correspondingly high. Here are a few prices on staple foods:
Ice cream soda................................................$.20 Bread, per pound loaf.........................................15 One apple pie..................................................85 Corn on the cob, one doz. ears.................................75 Cucumbers, each................................................20 Flour, per hundred pounds....................................8.00 Tomatoes, per pound............................................35 Bacon, per pound...............................................40
97
Sugar, per hundred pounds...................................9.00 Butter, per pound..............................................50 Eggs, per dozen................................................45 Milk, per quart................................................20 Stoker coal, per ton.........................................9.00 Fruit juices, canned...........................................20
Due to the availability of natural water power, electricity is nearly as cheap as in my home town. A haircut costs as much as one dollar. There is no daily mail or delivery, but the post office is a busy place, and it costs only three cents to mail one average-sized book back to the States. Current popular magazines are a week late, but the prices are the same as at home. As one goes into the interior of Alaska, conditions change a little. The price of living and even of electricity grows much higher.
Alaska, our last frontier, has been civilized. "Seward's Folly" has grown into the goose that lays golden eggs. Man's ingenuity has conquered the former natural resistance of this great country and its barriers to civilization. Although she is three thousand miles away, we will talk to our daughter this winter via short wave. Her letters are only a week away from us. She is only eight days from us by train and steamboat and much less by airplane. She has joined a glee club and has found a pipe organ where she may practice. She is happy and everything which she needs for her welfare is obtainable. (And I packed sad irons in her luggage!)