2 Woman's Centennial Congress Julia A. F. Lund FITTING climax to the A "woman's movement" of the last century was the Woman's Centennial Congress, held at the Hotel Commodore, New York City, November 25, 26, 27. This historic event was twofold in its purpose: first, to review the work of women and to do honor to the great women of the past; second, to provide an opportunity for women to "take stock of themselves"; to face the challenge to women of the world of today; to reexamine the role of women, their goals and the means which they wish to use to achieve these goals. In every great crisis of history they have been a force in the thought and action growing out of the crisis. Never before has the responsibility been so great and the problems so momentous as at the present time. Long and careful preparation was given to the Congress. The advice of experts in the various fields was sought, and women from all parts of the world were invited to relate their experiences. Representatives of all professions, walks and phases of life were listed among the sponsors. In addition to the women of distinguished service and the foreign guests, each state in the Union was Women realize that' allowed five delegates, chosen by a _ special delegate committee. In order to have a satisfactory working number, the delegate body was limited to three hundred. All the great organizations of women actively cooperated with the Congress. It was very fitting that the women of the Church be represented by the heads of two of their organizations—President Amy Brown Lyman for the Relief Society, who was also a delegate from the National Council of Women of the United States, and President Lucy Grant Cannon for the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Other delegates from Utah were Mrs. Burton W. Musser, Mrs. Arthur E. Graham, Mrs. E. M. Bagley, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, and Mrs. E. O. Leatherwood. There were many sub-committees responsible for working out the details. The two main committees were the Woman's National Committee with Carrie Chapman Catt as chairman, and the Men's Com-. Mittee headed by Nicholas Murray Butler. The following statement was made by Doctor Butler: "Surely the meetings of this Woman's Centennial Congress will be followed with great interest throughout the country. It is to remind us that it is one hundred years since a definitely organized movement began to give women not only an interest but participation in the guidance of public opinion and in the formation of public policy. The story of what has happened during those years is well known. The achievements of women in public service of every sort and kind have been in the highest degree remarkable, and this Congress will be hailed as marking the first long stage in the history of woman's new relationship to public policy and public life." The registration on Monday afternoon was important, as the delegates were presented with the material necessary for study in order to be informed for participation in the discussions of the Commissions —the study groups of the Congress. THE banquet, held in the grand ball room of the Hotel Commodore, was the formal opening of the Congress. A welcome to the foreign guests was extended by Mrs. J. Borden Harriman, former minister to Norway. From her recent experi- ° ences in war-torn Europe, Mrs. Harriman was able to eloquently express the sentiments of American women to these women from the ends of the world. Five guest speakers responded to the subject, "I Speak to American Women." Mrs. Sung IChung, Professor of English at the University of Peking, spoke for China. Young, brilliant, well educated, she gave a very graphic account of the horrors of war. Beginning with the seizure of Manchuria, she traced the progress of Japan through China. She stated that the only training allowed the Chinese is for political bondage. The place of Chinese women in the conquered sections is the lowest possible. In addition to seizing control of all © economic resources, the conquerors are seeking to destroy the Chinese people. The farmers are forced to raise opium, and this, with other narcotics, is cheap and made easily available. It is poisoning the common people, who in their misery resort to using it. The Japanese are forbidden under heavy penalty to use it. But China is now unified as never before and is, like England, fighting for the freedom of the world. The Chinese women in the unconquered sections are doing a magnificent work under the leadership of their great women and ate active in every phase of national life today. Madame Genevieve Tabouis represented France. She was an older woman and spoke with a tragic note. Never before had her beloved country been so humiliated! She traced some of the underlying causes that led to its collapse. Perhaps French women had not always been keenly alive to their responsibilities, but they had led in the demonstrations against the invaders. She declared that the soul of France will not die, and out of the sorrows of the present will come a determination to help build a society which will not tolerate war and which will provide a better and fuller life for all. The women of France look to the women of America to keep the light burning—that will lead the way. Mrs. George V. Ferguson spoke for Canada and the British Commonwealth of Nations. She was a very charming young woman who expressed deep appreciation for what the United States has done for her country. Women as well as men  —FEBRUARY, 1941 WOMAN'S CENTENNIAL CONGRESS are participating in "total war," for they are interested in everything concerned. She paid an inspiring tribute to the women of England and said Canada had freely chosen to work under their banner. She told of the war work of the Canadian women and their care of the refugee children. Drives for funds have always reached the quota, no matter what the privations of the people have been. A marvelous spirit of comradeship has developed. She concluded: "The ordeal by fire will not consume us! Canada is not interested in territorial claims or national boundaries but believes, as you did in a great war, that the world cannot endure half slave and half free.' Freedom is the stake for which she is fighting. That is why she can march by the side of England in war and work with the United States for peace—their ideals are one and the same." Senora Ana Roas de Martinez Guerrero, of Argentina, was a member of the Inter-American Commission of Pan-American Women. Beautifully gowned, young and attractive, she spoke for all the women of Latin America, and made an eloquent plea for sympathy and understanding between nations. Women must do their part in overcoming nationalistic jealousies and in creating an informed public opinion and a solidarity of interest in all the Americas. The standard of living must be raised, and, by consuming the surpluses, malnutrition must be eliminated. Economic stability must first be achieved, for the salvation of democracy is, to a large extent, dependent upon the well-being of all the people. Perhaps the most dramatic and 8] tragic of all the foreign guests was Senora Isabel de Palencia, now a refugee in Mexico, but a true Spanish Loyalist. She traced the history of her unhappy country from the overthrow of the monarchy to the present. She said that the women of Spain were asleep, but at last they awoke, and the first act of the Republic was to grant rights to women. The strategic position of Spain attracted the politicians of Europe, -and the Civil War was incited, followed by the alliance with Italy. The world did not understand Franco! The war in Spain was, in reality, not a Civil War but an invasion sponsored by other nations of Europe. The country was dominated by the troops of other nations. Today the suffering of the people is worse than it was during the war. Women are enduring great hardships; for example, in one prison camp alone one hundred and eighty-nine babies were born and christened in one month. Senora de Palencia said: "I am a woman with no land, no people, no resources—yet I am full of hope! I can still be a democrat, and that is too great an honor not to make some sacrifice to hold. Let us be unafraid and give ourselves to the new order of life!"
"I Speak For American Women" was the theme of Carrie Chapman Catt's response. It was appropriate that this veteran of more than eighty years should speak for the women of this nation. She referred to the status of so many of the women in the world today, with all rights and opportunities gone. To her, it seemed the whole meaning was "back for women." But she declared, "Well, I am not going back! We have rights still, so let us use them to reestablish the rights of men!"
THERE were two general sessions where all the delegates met together. Round-table discussions were held, and subject matter of equal interest to the five Commissions was dealt with by experts. Questions were permitted from the floor. Realities which women must face about themselves and about the world as it is now and as it might be were considered. These meetings resolved themselves into "a conversation among experts." At the first of these sessions, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt acted as chairman; at the second, Judge Florence E. Allen presided.
"The Woman's Century—Looking Backward" was the subject of the entertainment presented on Tuesday evening, November 26. It was the most commemorative event of the Congress, recalling that one hundred years ago a small group of brave women started an organized movement against the subordinate and unequal position imposed upon them by law and custom. This was expressed in the form of "Eighteen Grievances and What Became of Them." Foremost among these grievances was the denial of women's right to the franchise, but they covered the whole field of her inferior status—economic, political, social, domestic and even religious.
A group of students from Vassar College presented the "Grievances of 1840." This was followed by a statement of "Grievances of 1940." A very impressive feature was the introduction of the "Descendants of the Pioneers" and the "Roll Call of Careers—1840 and 1940." The spirit of the pageant was that "rights have been won, but responsibilities commensurate with freedom must now be undertaken." "May our character uphold our intellect."
Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning, November 26 and 27, were devoted to the meetings of delegates for discussion under the guidance of the five Commissions of the Congress. The delegates were urged to give careful attention to the selection of the group they desired to join, to study the material given at the time of registration, to follow the same group through and participate actively in the discussions. The chairmen were experts in the selected fields—which covered the most vital problems of today.
Economic and Social Welfare
This group took as the general subject for consideration the economic challenge to American women, who have a very important job to perform in every field. They must preserve and strengthen the American way of life. Democracy has given them much; now they must give much in return, for privileges entail responsibilities. Women's organizations are educating them to participate effectively in solving the problems of our country. Social and governmental institutions have not kept abreast of the scientific and industrial developments, and grave problems have been created. In the economic, as in any other field, the first thing for women to do is to arm themselves with facts—learn what the problems are. Homemaking is still women's greatest job, but it must be considered in the light of present conditions. Machines
 —FEBRUARY, 1941 WOMAN'S CENTENNIAL CONGRESS
have changed the homemaker's whole life. Women's Share of Wealth and Income, Women as Consumers and Purchasers, Women in Industry, Women in Education, the Professions and Social Welfare, Employment of Married Women, The Farm Women, Jobs and Wages, and The Use of the Legislative Tool are only a few of the subjects considered by this group. As Florence Hemly Schneider said: "Women must merge their fight for the American way of life, which defends them, with the fight to make this life better.... To do this double job, women must be socially productive within and without the home.... Women can truly progress only when human and material resources are utilized as fully as possible. These resources can be developed to the full only through the cooperative efforts of all individuals and groups.... The women of today will take up this challenge even as did the women of a century ago. With equal courage of body and mind, they will face forward to the frontiers of the future."
The Education of Women
This group considered some of the most interesting material of the Congress. Looking at the list of subjects considered at the conference, it is evident that the education of women had an important place in all of the discussions. If it be true that woman's history is humanity's history, certainly woman's education is humanity's education. It must today have a meaning, a purpose, and be a vitalizing force in our democratic way of life. Each woman cannot make the same contribution to the democratic way of
83
life, but she can make an important one, for democracy is maintained through the unique services rendered by all sorts of people under all sorts of conditions. Among the important objectives of education for women were listed personal development, including proper health habits, preparation for marriage and a home, preparation for earning a living, and preparation for citizenship. Not only technical skills and knowledge are needed, but also experience in the fundamentals of getting along with people. Much stress was laid on guidance in living, for guidance in living is even more important than guidance in working. Widespread education is the best weapon in the upward struggle of society, and this should include education in the constructive use of leisure time and in the development of the arts. The level of society is raised by raising the cultural level of all its members. Social service holds a vital place in any program of education in a democracy, for, in its broadest sense, the proper functioning of democratic government is social service. In order to carry the new responsibilities, women need a broad understanding of social trends and problems. Some of the finest material submitted was from The Farm Women and The Women of Industry, who were very articulate in all sessions. Nora Piore, of the New York Women's Trade Union League, made the statement: "The faith that the educated citizen is the best safeguard of the democratic process, remains the basic assumption of workers education.... We long ago learned the truth of the saying: 'Man cannot live by bread alone'... so besides aiding our members to gain a greater measure of the material comforts of life, we do all we can to make their lives fuller, gayer, and more cultured.... It is the primary function of worker's education to articulate the dreams and the hopes and the aspirations of American wage earners, and to guide the energy created by discontent, the evils of exploitation of industrial life into creative channels in such a way that they may contribute to the building of a safer, more secure and a more beautiful world." The objective of all the fine material submitted in this group might be summed up in the immortal words: "Know the truth and the truth shall make you free." After all, this is the keynote of education in a democracy.
Ethical and Religious Values
This group had for special study, "Women Take Stock of Themselves." Some very interesting material upon the status of women in some of the great churches of the world was presented. The chairman of this Commission began her report with the statement that: "Religion must be definitely related to all educational values." Patriotism is not enough; ethics is not enough; "God's Kingdom is Wider."... "Our day calls for new insight and new courage." What the world needs above all else is religion. In the words of Gertrude C. Bussey: "In this day of spiritual darkness, it is peculiarly the obligation of women to set before our minds afresh the vision of a new world centered in the constructive task of giving to all the experiences and opportunities for growth which we desire for our own families. Yet mere vision is not enough. No dream, however beautiful, can meet the needs of the present hour. What is demanded is well-grounded faith combined with realistic planning for concrete action."
Government and Politics
"Judge nothing in America by the point at which it has arrived. Judge all things by the direction in which they are moving." This statement opened the subject, "Some Highlights on Women in Government and Politics." The Commission had collected many facts on the participation of women in this field—and included in this collection was a list of the legal discriminations. Women, as a rule, are classed as a minority group in public service, and they must learn when to do what. Mrs. Roosevelt urged women not only to think of themselves as members of a Group and to act as such but to think of themselves as a part of the citizenry of the United States with a tremendous responsibility. It was agreed that women are well organized and have done much study work, but their education has been about politics and government, and this can never take the place of education in these fields. They must come out of the study room into the arena of action. The facts, compiled from the most dependable sources available, were rather startling and showed the very limited number of women who have actually served in national, state and local positions. On the basis of the findings, the following statement of principles was presented: "We regard it as essential in a democracy that all citizens participate in government and political life. Women have as great an obligation as men to do so actively. They have not
 —FEBRUARY, 1941 WOMAN'S CENTENNIAL CONGRESS
done so to the extent that their qualifications warrant. Those who are qualified should take their place:
"1. In all branches of government—executive, judicial and legislative, including membership in Congress, state legislatures, city councils and commissions, county and town boards and other local official bodies.
"2. In political organizations—partisan and nonpartisan. In all activities of professional, labor or business educational, philanthropic and religious groups influencing government action.
"Those women who are not yet qualified should prepare themselves immediately to be so. All women, at whatever stage of service, should continuously study the principles and development of our democracy and appraise all current proposals and measures in relation to them."
World Peace Through World Organization
In view of the present happenings in the world, it is evident that "sooner or later, if mankind is to survive, some form of world order will of necessity be established." A very full report of this Commission was submitted, but the outstanding questions were: "What shall be our guiding principles in the chaos which has come upon us?" and, "What is the challenge to women?" Plans were suggested for future study and thought. The real message given to this group was expressed in the conclusion: "Let us preserve faith in the ideals of liberty, peace and cooperation throughout this period of distress and disillusionment. Assume a personal responsibility as women for preserving and bettering the human race which we have
85
borne and nurtured. Let us pledge ourselves to the eradication of war, and dedicate our hearts and minds to the building of a human society in which peaceful progress may become an enduring reality. Let us make this the task to which we give our constant effort and unswerving devotion."
At 2:00 p. M. On Wednesday, November 27, the last general session of the Congress convened. The reports of committees and the findings of the Commissions were presented to all the delegates. Many questions were asked and much discussion followed the reports of the chairmen. After the reports and recommendations were accepted, the Congress was ready for its final action. As the women of a century ago had announced to the world their convictions through a "Declaration of Sentiments," so their followers today issued "A Declaration of Purpose," this to be signed and sent to the Library of Congress as a closing chapter in this century of the "women's movement." Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt brought the Congress to a close. She referred to Lucretia Mott, who had hesitated to sign the "Declaration of Sentiments," as she feared it was too radical. Mrs. Catt said: "I hesitate to sign the 'Declaration of Purpose,' as I fear it is too conservative! Women of America, you cannot carry guns, but you can create public opinion—and public opinion can beat any army in the world." The following excerpt from the "Purpose" expresses its spirit: "The supreme task which now confronts all men and women who are still free is to establish throughout the world those social, economic and political conditions in which peace, freedom and social justice will have a chance to live.... We advocate no fixed pattern of progress to be followed, but shall advance step by step using in each decade the means appropriate to our objective. We shall strive to develop the educational methods and situations which will forward the fulfillment of our purpose.... We shall work side by side with men, for it will be from the common endeavor of all men and women of good will that the goal will be reached."