Things More Important Mrs. A. H. Gibbons NIGHT had settled down with concealing comfort. A cool spring hush covered the houses and trees and paths as Don, content: in the everyday living that God had allotted him and feeling unconsciously the beauty of nature's early April days, walked home. He had the complacent feeling that Hannah had been greatly helped by his visit to her father. Her father didn't seem to be doing very well. "Poor kid," Don thought, "she's never had a good break in her life. She must have been the very last one in line when everything in the way of good-looking faces had been passed out." Don came in quietly. It was late, and Eileen would be sleeping. He had asked her not to wait up for him. But he found her sitting by the low fire, her firm, energetic little body clad in the blue house coat he had given her for Christmas. Eileen was not reading. She was not mending.. In complete, deep indignancy, she sat waiting for him. A faint, sly grin bent the corners of Don's mouth. He made no inquiries but moved to lay his hat on the mantle shelf. Then, catching the fire-like gleam in her eye, he made an unperturbed retreat to the closet in the hallway. Always, there was a pleasant calmness about Don; but Eileen was like a busy, efficient little factory whose whistle must sound off in an explosion of nerves and exasperation, and then when the sound died away serene peace would reign again. "It's been quite a while at that," mused Don to himself, coming back to the living room, a very thin hint of a smile lingering again for an instant on his face. Life was good to Don. Eileen stood up as Don came in, her eyes so sharp and bright that they looked like bits of sparkling glass set in black satin. With effort, she spoke calmly. "Don, don't the contracts for next year come out sometime the first of April?" "About the fifteenth, I believe. Why?" "And if one—I mean one of. The teachers in the system—wants a better position, doesn't he make an appointment with the superintendent and ask for it about now? Anytime now?" "Right, honey, but what's the idea of the cross examination? Who's going to make an appointment and ask for a better job?" Don sensed the threatening earnestness in Eileen's words and remained standing. "You are!" Her lips were trembling, and she bit them hard. "You are going to make an appointment with the superintendent and ask him for a position in the senior high school." "Oh, no. I like my job fine, Eileen. I know all the little shavers, and..." "I don't care if you do like your job," she interrupted sharply, regarding him with determination, "there are other things more important to be considered! How do you think I feel when I have to say that my husband is just an elementary-school teacher—with a Master's degree?" "Oh, but that isn't the important _ thing. I like to work with youngsters of that age. That's the time to give them the right lease on life, especially those youngsters who seem to have gotten off on the wrong track. Why you can do more with them at that age than..." "Well, how about giving me a new lease on life—me and Jackie and Junior and the baby?" She spoke with suppressed heat, and Don imagined he could see firecrackers sputtering under ice. He sat down and calmly drew from his pocket the customary pencil and the duebill from Thatcher's, upon which he began making decorative "A's" and "O's."; "Don, I went to that safety meeting for the P. T. A., and Mrs. Killan was there—you know, the lady you graduated with, the one whose husband got that job as cashier in the bank. Did she rise and shine! The little snob! She came up very ladylike and held out her finger tips for me to touch and then said clearly and distinctly and snootily so that everyone turned our way, 'And is your husband still teaching in the elementary schools?' And I said, 'Yes. He is very well satisfied with his work at the Washington school.' And she stuck her abbreviated nose a little higher, and said, 'Oh, I expected so much of him.' "Well, then the storm broke. I said, 'He loves the little folks,' and she said, "Well, every man to his class.' She was so sarcastically gallant about it. I looked murderously at her and said right to her face, 'Well, he likes it!' Then she stared at me just like she was seeing a kangaroo for the first time and was going to make the most of her opportunity." Don tried to hide a grin behind his hand but was unsuccessful. "Oh, the kettle called the skillet black in no weak language," he laughed. Eileen smiled, too—a smile like a piece of steel on a frosty morning. "That isn't the first time I've been humiliated," she snapped. "People are always making some belittling remark, Oh, you can put up with it for a few years, but people expect you to go on up. You don't get paid enough teaching the fifth grade. Being hard up for so long hardens the heart, too, Don, and makes one bitter. I looked as old as Methuselah's first wife tonight in that outfit of mine." "Now, honey, let's get this straight." Don pulled Eileen's rigid little figure onto his lap and felt her tense muscles begin to relax. "I know, Eileen. I know it's hard sometimes. Occasionally I meet people whom I knew a few years back, people with whom I went to school or under whom I studied. Almost invariably when I tell them I am teaching in the elementary school, I hear an 'Oh'—the kind people use when someone doesn't turn out so well. But I don't mind—not too much. As much or more skill is called for in teaching little people of ten and eleven years of age as in teaching your college people. In the elementary school, we can lay the foundation for all that is to follow, and education, like houses, must rest on solid footing if it is to endure. I'm learning things, and some day the people who count, the real, worthwhile, simple people, will find out that we—you and I and the family—do really matter after all." He said it with quiet authority, and Eileen couldn't help admiring
 —FEBRUARY, 1941 THINGS MORE IMPORTANT
him, a little; he was so kind and understanding and good-natured, accepting other folk's ideas, maybe, but clinging like a true old hickory tree to his own. But she was too wrought up to agree with him then.
"Listen, Don. Let me be your problem case for a while. Go talk to the superintendent before the contracts come out for next year. Ask him for a job in the senior high school. You'll have a chance for advancement there, and you can still keep one eye on Hannah and Allen Day and Francis and Bim and all the rest. If you will, I'll... I'll help you teach Mervin his fractions." Eileen laid her head coaxingly against Don's.
"I don't want a job in the senior high school!"
"I do. I want you to have a better job, so that I can look superior, too, and feel as important as Mrs. Killan. Don't you care how I feel, Don?" She sat up straight and stiff. Her eyes flung anger into his.
"I don't want us to feel so superior that all the time we're wondering loftily how those 'lower' classes exist!" He pursed his lips in sophisticated imitation.
"Don! It's a sin to try to rear a family in this day and age on what you make," Eileen said acidly, struggling to get off his lap. He held her firmly.
"A sin is it? Because I want to live my own simple life, it's a sin is it?" he asked quietly, soothingly. "And when a good woman gets into a state of indignation because of her husband's job.... Gracious sakes, honey, I have a good job. What wouldn't a lot of men give today for as fine a one? It means our security. And I like it. I like the kids. I like my room on the north, because I don't have to worry about sun glare, and the temperature is more constant than in any other room in the system."
"But I'm tired of this staying just a little out of the reach of... of... starvation and..."
"Now I'm starving you, huh?" Don tightened his arms about her, but her bitterness still remained. She glowered at him. "That's what people think of us. Besides, there are plenty of 'problem cases' in the higher grades if you must have them."
"I guess there are," agreed Don, "but by that time it's too late to do much with them. These 'misfit cases' need to be handled earlier."
"Well, if that's what's ailing you, then go ahead. Wherever you are you'll find a 'problem case' to work on—one of your own maybe if you don't stop making other kids happy while your own hardly ever see you. They're still young, work on them for a change!" Eileen stiffened and stood away from him. The air about her was electric with battle.
"But, 'Mrs. Solomon'," Don teased, "you're doing swell with the kids. They're O. K." He continued his argument. "The pay I receive isn't so bad, and the important thing is that I like to work with children of that age, and sometimes I'm able to give a child a new slant on life. That helps a lot to make a job worthwhile. Besides, if I stay a year or two and learn all I can and keep case records on the side, it may lead to..."
"...to your going to the superintendent and asking for a better job! Maybe you can act heroic about it, but I can't—not any longer." She glared at him. "If you
 —FEBRUARY, 1941
don't go, I will!" Don noticed that she was trembling with anger.
"O. K., Mrs. John D. Rockefeller. I guess I am sort of slow when it comes to accumulating wealth." If his job hurt Eileen that much he certainly must change it. "I'll make an appointment as soon as I can. Now let's get some 'shut-eye.' It's almost midnight."
DON was leaving the house for school the next morning when the phone rang. "It's for you." Eileen lifted her voice, one hand over the mouthpiece. "Must be Hannah again. She called a few minutes ago. Probably wants you to pedal her to school." Eileen went into the kitchen where she hurried Junior and Jackie with their preparations for school, removed Sister's bib and lifted her to the floor. Through the doorway, she heard Don's startled voice: "He did? I'll be right over."
"What's the matter, Don." Eileen came close.
"It's my little 'carrot-top,' Hannah. Her father died this morning, and she just called to tell me. Poor kid. She's only ten and is left an orphan with two little brothers. Gosh! I'm going right over to see her."
Don didn't return home as usual at 12:15 for lunch—or at 12:30. At 12:40 Eileen called him at school. "Shall I send Junior with some lunch?"
"No, never mind. I wouldn't have time to eat it now anyway. I meant to call you, but I didn't get around to it. I went over to see Hannah. She's taking it like a little brick, and I thought I ought to help her keep her courage up."
"While you were thinking, did you make that appointment with the superintendent?"
"No. I will though. I've been so busy this morning, I just..."
"Never mind. I'll make that appointment for you. You're so busy!" It was a positive declaration. "Hurry home after school. You'll be starved."
The hands on the clock marked the hour as 7:15 when Don came thoughtfully through the door that evening. He came in without speaking. Impulse laid his suit-coat on a kitchen chair, but experience picked it up and hung it in the clothes closet.
"I'm sorry, dear."
"Sorry for what? For not coming home to dinner? For keeping supper waiting two hours, or for almost not hanging up your coat? Never mind about the coat." His cheeks wrinkled in a brief smile as he kissed her. "Where are the kiddies? Not in bed?"
"Just in."
"I'll go up and tell them good night. Didn't think they'd be to bed this early."
"Their bedtime hour is seven, you know." He was back punctually to attend to his delayed meal. "And now suppose you tell me that you've been over to Hannah's since 3:30; that the poor kid has been left an orphan at age ten, and, in spite of the fact that she has a hundred relatives including a grandfather and grandmother right in the same town, you think she needs you around."
"Eileen, you don't understand. The poor kid looks to me. I did go over there after a two-hour meeting at the school. You know we've been
THINGS MORE IMPORTANT
quite the pals. She's called me every day since they took her father to the hospital. I asked her to. She's suffering more now, and I can't let her down."
"It's all right. I understand." That was the trouble with Don. His sympathies were so broad; they took in all sorts of people and problems. Eileen informed him, "I made an appointment with the superintendent for you. It is for day after tomorrow at 3:30—that's Friday. Hear me, Don? This is one thing you must not forget." Her voice sounded a warning note.
"Those poor little fellows over there!" Don said in answer. "The house was full of relatives, most of them strange. They seemed to take to the more attractive little brothers; but Hannah, skinny and sensitive, just sat in one corner and stared." Don rose from the table. "I don't feel very hungry. I had a couple of sandwiches over there. I meant...."
"Yes, I know. You meant to call me, but you forgot."
"I'm sorry. I guess I remember so well when my own father.... You know, Eileen, those kids have a great need for the psychological vitamins of love and affection—of patient, tolerant understanding and reassurance. Every kid does, but those more especially now, and among strange relatives."
"Will you please stop talking about those people," pleaded his wife. "With all those relatives they ought to be able to make out until morning, at least."
"Let's see, you said I'm to speak to the superintendent day after tomorrow. Thanks, Eileen, for making that appointment. I've been rather
113
occupied." Eileen hunted about in the magazine rack and handed him his Post. Suspicious and worried to distraction with fear that he would be rather unimportantly occupied at the important hour, she took the leather-backed date book from his small pile of school materials that were always about. In it he kept artistically designed "O's" and "A's" made with unconscious effort, and also items that needed his daily attention. In bold, inked letters she wrote and underlined: "IMPORTANT! 3:30! FRIDAY! SEE SUPERINTENDENT!"
THE next evening, supper for Don had waited not too patiently but still not too disastrously for only one hour. Eileen was a good wife and planned for his convenience. "You see, it's like this, dear," Don explained in his own good-natured tone of voice, "Hannah came in just before I left the building. She said the folks were trying to decide what to do with the children, and she wanted me to come over. She was very disturbed. She didn't like the way they were deciding things. I thought, of course, I'd be there only a minute.
"They were in an awful mess. All those folks were ganged together trying to decide what to do with those little children. They had about as much sympathy for the kids' side of the problem as if they were pawns on a chess board. They all wanted the boys, plump little fellows who could be dressed up to look well, but they didn't want them badly enough to take Hannah too. Her buck teeth, freckles, and carrot-colored hair were just too much for them."
"I should think so," offered Eileen.
"You know, they wanted to separate those children. Finally, after two hours, they agreed to have them live with their grandparents here and all help with the expense until the children were older. I hate to think what might have happened!" Eileen said, "Well, I'm happy that's settled." Don's reasonableness had soothed so many storms and comforted so many distressed. He must have been meant for that. He was so darned whole-hearted about it!
Before sleep dimmed his consciousness, Don made a remark simply to remind himself of his duty on the morrow and to assure Eileen that he would not forget. Then he added, thoughtlessly, "Even if the funeral isn't out by 3:30, I can get up and leave. I'm taking the class over in a group."
At this suggestion, sleep for Eileen, which had been stealing so peacefully near, jumped back several leagues. If that funeral were Friday and at two o'clock, and if by any good fortune he did get up and leave, was there any assurance that other problems would not engulf Don? That appointment had to be kept. He must keep it! After all she had gone through, it just had to be. Too many bright plans for the future had been born for any mistakes now. It hadn't occurred to her that the superintendent could say no. Far into the night, after Eileen had decided upon a certain action, sleep came.
THE day of the appointment arrived. At 1:30, unnoticed by Don and the majority of the children, Eileen slipped into his school room. She settled quickly into a low chair close by a large cupboard and, in amazement, she watched. Was this the way Don kept school? A group of children were seated at a table cutting and pasting clippings into books; others, working individually or in groups of two, were poring over big books and charts. There was a reading circle going on in one corner of the room. One little girl with great, brown eyes was straightening up the library. They were all dressed for the funeral in their spring frocks and made a lovely picture—or would have if they hadn't been so disorganized. One lad, dressed in his Sunday best, with a rather pale, expressive little face and warts on his hands, was washing at the small sink tucked away in a little cove in the wall. From his pocket he extracted a half comb and manfully strived to make his bulldog haircut go back into a pompadour. Then the next in turn stepped up to do likewise. It was just like a little ant bed of busy people, carefree, natural, sympathetic with one another. After the oppressive dignity of her literary club, this was a rare treat. It seemed to Eileen that Don had made the children feel that everybody was somebody here. The amiability and friendliness thawed her heart. In a magically short time, tables, desks and cupboards were put in order and two by two the little folks left the room. Don picked up a magazine and his little date book of reminders, and followed. Then he noticed Eileen. He gave her a swift, mischievous and understanding smile. "So glad to see you, Mrs. Whiting. Always glad to have mothers. Yes, Mrs. Whiting, Don is doing
 —FEBRUARY, 1941 THINGS MORE IMPORTANT
very well and keeps all his appointments to the minute." He slid his arm about her as they went out together.
"Well, to be honest, Don, I did come to remind you about 3:30. I'll run back home now." The tenderness of her words almost startled him. He went on with his boys and girls, but he was thoughtful.
Eileen watched the little procession of brightly-clad children with Don in his prim black suit bringing up the rear. The new spring day, warm and soft, made the scene enticing. After walking a few paces toward home, she turned and followed the people who were going toward the little church—those people who can be so cruel and yet at times so kind to their fellow sufferers.
In the church, she took her place just behind the reserved benches; it seemed to be the only place vacant. She was surprised to see such an abundance of flowers. The absolute stillness was soothing to Eileen's always taut nerves. Then came the sound of casket wheels at the outer entrance, and the organ began the low sweet chords of "Nearer My God To Thee." The audience stood in respect. It was impressive. And then Eileen saw Hannah, Don's little "carrot-top," with her old, yet oddly wistful little face, buck teeth protruding over her lower lip and freckles everywhere, as though they had been painted on with tiger-lily powder. She was holding a little brother's hand in each of her own. Eileen's heart seemed to turn over in her throat at this picture of trag-
115
edy—three little youngsters left without the two people they needed most. No wonder Don was a friend to Hannah. As they reached the front rows, each of the little boys was claimed by an aunt's arm about his shoulders. Hannah sat between the two, trying to cover her face with her handkerchief. Eileen had noticed in her wide, hazel eyes the unmistakable signs of many tears. Now she could see only the top of her head—her "carrot-topped" head. The procession of more distant relatives and friends followed. Next came the group of marble-eyed, wondering little school children and Don, seating themselves on the two benches just in front of Eileen.
The choir sang, "Abide With Me." A prayer followed and then a duet, "That Beautiful Land," with its inviting words:
"In that beautiful land, On that far away strand... There awaits us a palm and a crown;... And the sunshine will never go down."
The minister rose to his feet. Eileen noticed some confusion toward the front. Hannah must be in difficulty. The aunts looked her way from either side. Eileen, sitting tall, saw Hannah look up quickly and turn her eyes backward, searching. She saw Don's head nod slightly. Then suddenly and without warning, Hannah jumped to her feet, turned down the aisle and slipped in close beside Don. For that short moment the minister's words hung in the stillness, then he went on with his consolation. Pillowing her carrot-red hair on Don's shoulder, the child buried her face in her hands and sobbed as though her heart would burst. Eileen would have taken off her hat to him then, if she had been a man.
The service was lengthening. Hannah was quite comforted. Eileen saw Don glance at his watch, saw him shift to one side and then to the other. He looked at the speaker. From where she sat, she noticed that the large clock on the wall marked half-past the third hour. Don was becoming restless and began to squirm again. Once he looked as if he were going to rise to his feet, but he settled back. Eileen motioned for the child just behind Don to slip her the little black book by his side. Opening it to April 5, she read: "IMPORTANT! 3:30! FRIDAY! SEE SUPERINTENDENT!" Quickly she scratched through the words and wrote beneath in brave letters: "DON'T SEE SUPERINTENDENT! OTHER THINGS MORE IMPORTANT!" Opened, she handed it back.