?FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
warm, non-stimulating beverage taken just before retiring has a relaxing effect on some people. Rich pastries or other heavy foods served late at night keep most people from going to sleep quickly or from sleeping soundly after they go to sleep.
Party refreshments are sometimes a drain on family budgets, due to the attempt to serve more elaborately than has a previous hostess. Refreshments can be attractive and inexpensive. They really should be incidental to the party and not be the major feature of it. This is particularly true as far as children's parties are concerned.
Refreshing drinks can be made at home at little cost. Fruit drinks are far more desirable made from fruit juices than from a powder bought at the store and stirred into sweetened water. Rhubarb, plums, cherries, berries, apples, or any home-grown fruit which is tart can be made into juice and canned with very little sugar to be used as fruit drinks, either alone or mixed with other fruit juices. These fruit drinks may be served either hot or cold. Chicken broth or other meat broth with the fat removed makes a good hot drink to serve on a cold day. It may be mixed with tomato juice or seasoned with celery salt, bay leaves, or any desired flavoring.
Salads made from fruit or raw vegetables served with French dressing are appetizing. Heavier salads contain too many calories for this extra meal. Open-face sandwiches made with a thick sandwich paste on a thin slice of bread or a wafer will cut down the usual high starch content of party refreshments.
131
Fruit desserts which are not too sweet or frozen desserts which do not contain too much thick cream provide fewer surplus calories than do the rich pies, cakes, and puddings which are so frequently served.
RECIPES
HOME-CANNED FRUIT JUICES
Prepare fruit juices for beverages from berries, cherries, currants, or plums. Use only sound, well-ripened fruit in such quantities that the canning process can be carried through promptly. To avoid overcooking and to preserve the original flavor and color as much as possible, check the temperature with a thermometer as the fruit is precooked and the juice pasteurized Sugar also helps to preserve color and flavor, but it may be omitted if an unsweetened juice is preferred.
Wash the fruit, drain, and crush. Add water, if desired, to thin the juice?about ? cup of water to each pound of fruit. Heat to 170? or 180? F., and hold for several minutes or until the juice can be separated from the pulp. Extract the juice with a fruit press or strain through several layers of cheesecloth. A second straining without pressure makes the juice clearer. Add sugar if desired, using about ? to 1 cup of sugar to each gallon of juice. Heat the juice to 160? or 170? F. and then pour into hot, sterilized glass jars or bottles; fill bottles to within an inch of the top. Seal and immediately process in water bath. Where elevation is 4000 feet, 9 minutes are required for processing. Increase time one minute for each 500 feet above 4000 feet.
HOT TOMATO JUICE COCKTAIL
1 quart tomato juice 1 tablespoon butter ? teaspoon salt
Combine ingredients and heat. Ten servings.
Variation 1: Add 2 bay leaves, 6 peppercorns, and 1 teaspoon of sugar to the above recipe and heat. Remove bay leaves and peppercorns and serve.
Variation 2: Combine 1 pint bouillon with three cups tomato juice. Heat and serve.
MULLED FRUIT JUICE
2? cups canned apple juice 12 whole cloves ? teaspoon nutmeg 1 cup cherry juice 1 3-inch stick cinnamon
Empty the juice into a saucepan and add the spices. Heat to boiling and simmer for 5 minutes. Strain and serve piping hot. Eight servings.
Variation: Other canned juices may be combined and used, or a single juice may be mulled.
APPLE-SAUCE SHERBET
? cup sugar ? cup water 1 tablespoon corn syrup Few grains salt 2 egg whites 1 pint apple sauce 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon vanilla
Combine the sugar, water, corn syrup, and salt, and boil until syrup will spin a thread. Beat the egg whites until stiff; pour the syrup into them beating all the time. Fold the apple sauce, lemon juice, and vanilla into the egg-white mixture. Pour into a freezing tray of mechanical refrigerator. Turn the regulator of the refrigerator to lowest freezing point and freeze mixture to the mushy stage. Remove and beat (in the tray) with a rotary beater until smooth. Return to refrigerator and finish freezing. May be frozen in an ice-cream freezer. Six to eight servings.
SANDWICHES
Sandwiches may be made of two or more layers of bread sliced extra thin, cut in interesting shapes. Three-layer, finger-length sandwiches, alternating brown and white bread, are attractive. Open-face sandwiches omit the top slice of bread. Rolled sandwiches: Cut a thin slice of not-too-fresh bread, spread with filling, roll and tie with narrow ribbon. Pinwheel sandwiches are made by removing the crust from a sandwich loaf, spreading the entire top with a bright-colored cheese mixture, then cutting a thin slice the entire length of the top of the loaf. Roll, wrap in a damp cloth, chill. Slice in round, thin discs. Canapes are made from stale, white bread cut in small, fancy shapes, saut?ed or simply toasted on both sides, then spread with some piquant mixture.
SANDWICH AND CANAPE SPREADS
Deviled Chicken (or Ham)
? cup minced chicken (or ham) 2 chopped, hard-cooked eggs 3 tablespoons minced, green pepper ? teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 2 teaspoons mayonnaise
Piquant Mixture
2 tablespoons chopped pimientos 2 tablespoons chopped, sweet pickles 4 tablespoons chopped celery 1 teaspoon mayonnaise 1 tablespoon prepared mustard