Y Mission LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired) Lesson XVII The Building of a Commonwealth (Tuesday, May 20, 1941) OW would you like to perform a little experiment that will help you in your study of this lesson? You live in a civilized land. But you inherited most, if not all, of the things which surround you in your town or state or nation. And now you are to learn how one of the important commonwealths in the United States was established. How was it done? How was your own commonwealth built up in the beginning? Suppose, then, you take a pencil and paper and set down one by one the things you think should go into the making of a commonwealth like the one you are living in. What would be the very first necessity? The second? The third? And so on. It would be better, of course, if you would join with some others to do this, for then you would have the benefit of their thinking and judgment. The items should be set down on paper, because that would impress them on your mind. This experiment would give you two benefits: first, it would enable you to understand and appreciate what is to follow in this lesson more than you could do otherwise; second, you would be in a better position to tell what is important as compared with what is unimportant in community life. Should you do what is here suggested, it would be better for you to do it before you read the rest of this lesson. ET us first get straight in our minds some of the facts concerning the early population of Utah, the new mountain home of the Mormon people. In the lesson just before this, you were told that during the winter of 1848-49 there were between four and five thousand people in the Salt Lake Valley. The population did not stay at this figure very long, as you may know, for there were tens of thousands of men, women, and children along the Missouri and between the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers, waiting for an opportunity to go to the new home. But it was not advisable for them to go there too fast, for reasons which you can easily guess. Three companies arrived in the Valley from the East in the fall of 1849, and several companies during the following year. The immigration continued till all the temporary settlements on the Missouri River were abandoned. But it took many years to accomplish this, because as fast as one group left for the mountains, its place would be taken by converts from England, Scotland, and Wales. In 1849, for instance, eight ships, carrying 1,720 Latter-day Saints, arrived from the Old World. At first, of course, the immigrants came across the plains in covered wagons. 'This cost money, and many of the Saints were poor. So, in 1849, what was afterwards known as the Perpetual Immigration Fund was established. It had for its purpose, first, the removal to the mountains of the Saints exiled from IIlinois, who desired to gather to the main body of the Church, and afterwards to extend aid to the poor Saints throughout the world. It was called by this name because it was a revolving fund?loaned to and then paid back by the borrowers. Some of the Saints were even too poor to take advantage of this Fund; hence, handcarts were devised for use in crossing the plains. These cartied what provisions were needed, and they were either pushed or pulled. The men, women and the larger children walked all the way 

 ?FEBRUARY, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT to the new home. As a matter of fact, many women and most of the men walked the entire distance to the Valley even when they traveled with wagons. The Handcart companies got along very well on the whole, but one company, which started late, got caught in the mountains by a severe storm and many of the Saints perished. 'Those who survived the storm were rescued by men and teams from Salt Lake City. Thus the State of Deseret, or Utah, was peopled. "THE first necessity of the Saints in the Valley was food. The settlers had to raise their own food and make the cloth which went into their clothes. It early became necessary to send people into other parts of the country to settle and to cultivate the soil. Salt Lake Valley was near the mountains and about seventeen miles east of Great Salt Lake. Much of the land, however, was too dry and alkaline to cultivate. But north of this valley was another, the Weber, and north of that was Cache Valley. South of the Salt Lake Valley was the Provo Valley, and south and east of that other valleys?the Sanpete and the Juab, for instance. West and south of Salt Lake Valley was Tooele Valley. One of the first things done, therefore, was to send people into these and other places to colonize. In all these valleys, people set to work raising grain, hay, and vegetables for themselves and their animals. They had to irrigate the land sometimes before it could be plowed, but always afterward. To do this, they had to dig canals and ditches to carry the water from the mountain streams on to the land. On more than one occasion crickets and grasshoppers threatened the crops; but with the cultivation of several valleys at the same time, the settlers were able to raise enough food for themselves?more than the pests could destroy. Sheep furnished wool for clothing. The wool was treated by hand and then made into suits of clothes for the men and dresses for the women. Women in many parts of the Territory made their own hats, coloring them with homemade dyes. Gradually, however, factories and mills were built in all the valleys where the people had settled. It was the policy of the Church authorities to urge the Saints to become as self-supporting as possible under the circumstances.
We have learned that the first winter the Saints were in the Salt Lake Valley, a government was set up and that it was mainly religious. In 1849 the State of Deseret was established. "Deseret" is a Book of Mormon word and means "honeybee." Brigham Young was elected governor. Two years later, however, the State of Deseret was made into a territory?Utah?by the Federal Government. The word "Utah" means "high up," and fitted the place and the object of the Saints in coming here. Again the governor was Brigham Young, but some of the officials were from outside the Territory?which caused trouble later. The Mormons wanted statehood, but for various reasons they did not get it.
The Deseret News began its publication in June, 1850. About the same time, the University of Deseret, now the University of Utah, was established. It is the oldest school of its kind west of the Mississippi River. Its first president was Orson Spencer, a former Baptist minister and a college graduate with a Master's degree.
Already a home dramatic organization had been created in the Salt Lake Valley to furnish amusement for the public and to provide an outlet for dramatic talent. The first public building in the Valley was a bowery. This was made of upright poles and covered with tree branches and leaves. In it were held religious services, political gatherings, and plays. It was, therefore, a church, a courthouse, and a theater all in one. This was also true of meeting places in other settlements. Schools were conducted also in all of the settlements. Some of the communities had brass bands. In Salt Lake City there was Pitt's band, an organization that had furnished music in Nauvoo. All its members had been converted to Mormonism in London at the same time.
Such, then, in brief, was the course of development in the Mormon colony established in Utah: first, food, clothing and shelter; then, government and schools; last of all, amusements and entertainment.
Religious matters were not neglected. It was religion that had brought the Latter-day Saints to what they called "the valleys of the mountains." Brigham Young was made President of the Church in December, 1847. He chose as his counselors Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards. All three had been in the quorum of Apostles. This left three vacancies in that group. As one of the Apostles had not thought enough of the Church to go West with the body of the organization, he was dropped from his position. These four vacancies were filled by Charles C. Rich, Lorenzo Snow, Erastus Snow, and Franklin D. Richards.
A council house was erected in Salt Lake City in which the authorities met for consultations. Other offices, too, were filled; for instance, the position of Presiding Patriarch was filled by the selection of John Smith. Then the Church abroad required attention. At a General Conference of the Church, held in 1849, missionaries were sent to Great Britain, France, Italy, and to the Pacific Islands. Some of these?France and Italy, for instance?were new fields; others, like Great Britain and the Islands, were old fields. Missionaries were also continuing to preach in all of the states of the Union. Thus the spreading of the Gospel abroad and the establishment of it at home went on at the same time that the Saints were trying to found a new state in the mountains under hard conditions.
Questions
1. Tell about the various companies that came into Utah during the first years of its settlement.
2. How much can you tell about the way they traveled?
3. Describe the Handcart companies. Why was the handcart mode of travel adopted? For what purpose was the Perpetual Emigration Fund created?
4. Tell about some of the valleys to which the immigrants went.
5. Tell about (a) the Deseret News, (b) the University of Utah, (c) the Dramatic Association.
6. What does the word "Deseret" mean? The word "Utah"?
7. Tell about what was done at home and abroad religiously.
Hymn to be Sung or Read It is suggested that the hymn, "Ye Elders of Israel," be sung or read. This poem was written by Cyrus H. Wheelock. He was born in New York State, in 1813, and became a member of the Church when he was twenty-six. He lived to be eighty-one years old. The hymn has always been a favorite with the Saints because it expresses the idea of gathering. In the early Utah period, the Saints were advised to gather to the new home. The hymn speaks of (1) the need for gathering the righteous, (2) the ripeness of the harvest, and (3) the places to go for converts.
(Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.)