Vol. XXVIII FEBRUARY, 1941 No. 2
EDITORIAL
Appreciation
IF, like Benjamin Franklin, I were to make a list of the virtues worthy of cultivation, foremost among them would be the ability to appreciate?the ability to be conscious of the significance, the desirability, the value of a person or thing; the ability to place oneself in the position of another and sense his problems, recognize his strengths and perceive his virtues; the ability to prize each thing according to its worth.
The word "appreciation" evades definition. It is a living experience. Sometimes one's heart is so full of it that he cannot speak; in the intensity of his appreciation words seem paltry and inadequate. Sometimes one is so stirred with it that he would have some outward expression of it?he would praise; he would send a gift; he would render a service; he would offer thanks. Sometimes it stimulates one to conquer his weaknesses and impels him to more worthy endeavor. Appreciation has driven many a person forth to great accomplishment.
Rich as this experience may be, and far-reaching as its influences are, it is all too rare in the lives of most people. The average person today lives such a whirlwind existence, and the struggle for survival is so great that he seldom pauses long enough to understand, to evaluate, to appraise either things or people. He becomes selfish; his sense of appreciation becomes dull, and much that is fine in life is lost to him. Most of us have fleeting moments of appreciation, but we do not fan the flame or carry sufficient fuel to the fire to have it blaze up in our lives and give forth warmth and cheer.
Everyone has need for appreciation, the mightiest as well as the lowliest. There is none so great but that it is important to him and none so mean but he is made better by it. Outward expressions of appreciation are good for the soul. They bring joy and encouragement to the recipient and growth and happiness to the giver. We sometimes hesitate in our expressions because of a sense of modesty or because we feel the expression should be lavish, such as an expensive gift or costly entertainment. But more frequently than not, those expressions which cost only a little thought and a moment's time are the most highly valued. It
is not the cost in dollars and cents that makes the expression of appreciation valuable but the sensitiveness to kindness, effort, or achievement which has motivated the expression.
The expectation of appreciation is human. To desire recognition of our acts of kindness, to hunger for the simple justice of a return of good for good is natural. But thoughtless thanklessness has ever been the characteristic of man. Saint Luke tells us that when the Savior was upon the earth, He entered into a certain village and there met ten men who were lepers, who stood afar off:
"And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
"And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed.
"And one of them when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God.
"And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.
"And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine?
"There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger."
Ten were healed; nine departed. One only returned to give thanks. Though we all hunger for and need appreciation, it must be genuine, otherwise its value is lost. Only sincere appreciation encourages us and impels us to further effort. The flatterer is soon discovered; the insincere is early exposed.
Appreciation leads to abundant living. It builds personality; it draws friends; it brings out the best that is in us; it encourages us to greater achievement; it creates a bond of understanding love. It is a virtue worthy of cultivation.