The Lord bless you; the Lord bless you.'" (May, 1939, page 319)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION Lesson 8
Obedience?President Heber J. Grant (Tuesday, May 6, 1941)
"And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." (I Nephi 3:7)
ON June 1, 1919, during a special conference held for the ratification of his nomination to the office of President of the Church, Heber J. Grant declared:
"I shall do the best I can to fulfill every obligation that shall rest upon me as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, to the full extent of my ability.
"I will ask no man to be more liberal with his means than I am with mine in proportion to what he possesses, for the advancement of God's kingdom.
"I will ask no man to observe the Word of Wisdom any more closely than I will observe it.
"I will ask no man to be more conscientious and prompt in the payment of his tithes and his offerings than I will be.
"I will ask no man to be more ready and willing to come early and to go late and to labor with full power of mind and body than I will labor, always in humility."
In these words is found the keynote that has characterized the administration of President Grant during more than two decades?absolute obedience to the word and will of God.
EARLY LIFE OF HEBER J. GRANT
Our seventh president of the Church was born on November 22, 1856, at Salt Lake City, a son of Jedediah M. Grant and Rachel Ridgeway Ivins. Nine days following his birth, his mother became a widow. A woman of strong character and independence, she set to work to make a living for herself and child rather than accept charitable aid. These characteristics, as well as her deep religious convictions, became indelibly impressed on the mind of the youthful Heber. Many are the stories told by President Grant concerning their struggles against adversity and poverty in his childhood years.
When about thirteen years of age, he became impressed by the story of Nephi, as recorded in the Book of Mormon. The accomplishments of
LESSON DEPARTMENT
this ancient prophet-leader, because of his obedience to the commands of the Lord and the admonitions of his father, became an inspiration to Heber J. Grant. He decided that he also would make implicit obedience to the Lord's injunctions and his mother's teachings the guidepost of his life. He became a dutiful and obedient son, and at an early age was actively engaged in Church service.
But obedience meant more to him than merely doing what was advised or requested. He conceived obedience to be intimately connected with improvement or perfection. This led him to strive for improvement in whatever he was assigned to do or in whatever he undertook to do. At an early stage in life, he commenced to manifest the invincible determination that has characterized his thought and conduct up to the present day.
PUBLIC LEADERSHIP
At an early age, Heber J. Grant embarked upon a career of business and public service that has placed him in the front ranks of state-builders in the Intermountain West. During the days when the Church was staggering under a great burden of debt, intensified by nation-wide depressions, he was sent by the First Presidency on financial missions to the East and West Coast to borrow large sums of money for the benefit of the Church and its membership. So prominent had he become in the public mind through his business, charitable and public-service activities in the last decade of the nineteenth century, that it appears certain he would have been nominated as candidate for the position of first governor of Utah. He con-
127
fesses that nothing would have pleased him more at the time than to have had this honor; but when he asked President Woodruff if he should accept it, no reply was forthcoming. Heber J. Grant then realized that the Church needed him more than the State, and, subordinating his own desires to his determination to obey his calling as one of the Twelve, asked that his name be withheld from the convention.
CHURCH ACTIVITIES
In October, 1881, when not quite twenty-four years of age, he was called by President Taylor to take up his residence in Tooele and preside over that stake. Acceptance of this call meant a great financial sacrifice to the young business man, but true to the precept that guided him in his life, he devoted himself to the task with admirable success. Two years later he was called to the apostleship. He opened and presided over the Japanese Mission from 1901 to 1903, and later presided over the European missions from 1904 to 1906. These mission experiences occurred in days when the Church was maligned and persecuted on all sides. President Grant has lived to be received with ovations from the press that formerly abused him and the Church he represented as a missionary.
THE CHURCH DURING PRESIDENT GRANT'S ADMINISTRATION
The last words that the late President Joseph F. Smith spoke were to Heber J. Grant. He said, "The Lord bless you, my boy, the Lord bless you; you have a great responsibility. Always remember that this is the Lord's work, and not man's. The Lord is greater than any man. He knows whom He wants to lead His Church, and never makes any mistakes. The Lord bless you."
Throughout the years that he has since directed its destinies as the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, he has endeavored to make this admonition his guide. The policies of his predecessor have been continued. The Church has continued its expansion in missionary work with the opening of new missions and the erection or purchase of numerous chapels for the Saints in these lands. Wards and stakes have increased greatly in numbers and extent. Temples have been erected in Hawaii, Canada, and Arizona, and sites have been selected for temples in Idaho and California. In addition to these physical manifestations of Church advancement, there has likewise been a great deal of teaching concerning public and private morals, with President Grant in the vanguard of the advocates of righteous living. The most recent noteworthy development has been the organization and functioning of the Church-wide welfare plan, which manifests the marks of true religion and pure brotherly love.
PRESIDENT GRANT'S RELIGIOUS LEADERSHIP
Perhaps the burden of the message of the now venerable Church president during nearly sixty years of leadership can best be summarized in his oft-quoted phrase: "Latter-day Saints, keep the commandments of God!" The words, "keep the commandments," epitomize his personal life. His public preaching has more often been directed toward temporal affairs than purely spiritual concerns, because he clearly perceived that no man can soar to the realms of spirituality as long as his personal life is burdened with violations of God's laws or is at variance with the admonitions God has given. Therefore, personal righteousness must precede the higher spirituality toward which we are striving.
It is because of this attitude that President Grant has so long and nobly championed the cause of more rigid observance of the Word of Wisdom. During the October conference of 1883, the year following his appointment to the Quorum of the Twelve, he stated, "But in order to understand it (Mormonism), it is necessary to live it. God has laid down certain laws for our guidance, and has made promises as the result of obedience to the same. One of these was the Word of Wisdom, through obedience to which some of the greatest blessings would accrue." Some have argued that the Word of Wisdom was "To be sent greeting, not by commandment or constraint...". To such, President Grant has said, "But what else does it say? It says, 'by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth...' What? '...showing forth the order and the will of God'! That is sufficient for him, and should be for every one who calls himself a member of the Church.
CHARACTER OF PRESIDENT GRANT
As the father of a family, he is generous, kind and patient; as a son he was considerate. His honesty and industriousness are proverbial. Money has been and is now attractive to him only for the good he can accomplish by using it for the wel-
 ?FEBRUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
fare of others; he has never made it an end in and of itself. Long years of experience have caused him to formulate his philosophy of life in the statement: "That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do, not that the nature of the task has changed, but that our capacity to do has increased."
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. What great prophet-leader inspired the youthful Heber J. Grant to place absolute faith in obedience to God's commands?
2. Upon what has President Grant based his firm testimony of the divinity of the work of Joseph Smith and the Latter-day Saint Church?
3. What significance do you attach to the farewell message of President Joseph F. Smith to Heber J. Grant?
4. What influences motivate President Grant in preaching so strongly the need of more rigid observance of the Word of Wisdom?
Topics for Study and Special Reports
1. Have someone read and report to the group some of the articles dealing with the family life, missionary labors, Church activities, civic leadership, and business enterprises of Heber J. Grant, as found in the November, 1936, Improvement Era. (This issue is a treasury of information
129
regarding the intimate and public life of our President.) 2. In every ward, stake or mission will be found many books that President Grant has given to friends. What significance do you see in his hobby of giving away books? 3. Have someone make a report of James H. Wallis' article, "President Grant, Defender of the Word of Wisdom," in The Improvement Era, November, 1936, pp. 696-698. 4. Read the biblical verses quoted on pages 485-488 of Vol. VI of the Comprehensive History of the Church that explain President Grant's view of practical religion. 5. Read President Grant's testimony as related on page 62 of Heroes of Truth, prepared by Maude Beeley Jacob. 6. Have someone make a report on President Grant's personal interest and work in the temple. (The Improvement Era, November, 1936, page 660)
References
Heber J. Grant, Editorials in recent issues of The Improvement Era. Heber J. Grant, Sermons in the annual and semi-annual Conference Reports of the Church. Improvement Era, November issue, 1936. (This is a special number commemorating the eightieth birthday of the President.) B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 479-505. Relief Society Magazine, November, 1936, pp. 671-683; December issue, 1940, pp. 727-728.