Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275.
Relief Society Parties
Carbon Stake (Price, Utah)
ON the afternoon of March 3, the Carbon Stake Relief Society Board entertained the ward officers and class leaders at an annual party. Instead of an afternoon of games, the stake board members demonstrated to the ward officers their idea of an ideal work-and-business meeting. The program was carried out as follows:
Singing Prayer Community singing (songs on nutrition composed by the stake board members) Talk by stake Relief Society president, Belle Johnson Dramatization, "The Old Woman in the Shoe." Demonstrations of handwork and homemaking Reports of visiting teachers Singing Benediction
For the dramatization, a large shoe was used made of heavy cardboard. It was about six feet high and between twelve and fifteen feet long, with a door and window in it. One of the stake board members was the old woman, and a class of eighteen kindergarten children represented her children. The children recited little rhymes on nutrition, such as:
"There was an old woman who lived in a shoe. She had so many children, she knew just what to do: She gave them pure milk and plenty of bread, Then tucked them all warm and snug in their bed."
Following the dramatization, the time was spent at the five booths. At one booth, demonstrations were given on rug-making, quilting, and remodeling of suits, dresses, capes, etc. This booth was arranged and the demonstrations were given by two of the board members. A baby quilt was on frames, and the officers of the wards were taught how to quilt. A candy booth was conducted by an expert, who gave a demonstration on how to make candy. This booth was decorated beautifully by two of the stake board members. At a lovely flower booth, a woman from a floral shop gave instructions on the care of flowers, the proper conditioning of the soil, and how and when to plant flowers. Another booth was related to hospitality, table service and etiquette. This was arranged by two stake board members. There were three tables properly set with silverware, dishes and centerpieces, for breakfast, luncheon, and dinner, respectively, and suggested menus were given. A fifth booth was devoted to personal appearance and care of the hands, with a licensed operator giving instructions on care of the nails. She demonstrated her instructions by giving a manicure. A recipe for home-made hand lotion was also given. While the demonstrations were in progress, the visiting teachers quietly handed in their monthly reports to the secretary at a side table. A dainty Saint Patrick cake, beautifully decorated in white and green, was served to all, accompanied by green mint punch.
Smithfield Stake (Smithfield, Utah)
THE Relief Society presidency of Smithfield Third Ward sent the accompanying pictures of a recent pageant featuring the youth of the Church. They wrote: "April conference was an inspiration to the officers of our organization. We desired to bring about a closer relationship between the parents and youth of our ward, so we worked out a youth pageant using as many of the young people as possible in musical numbers, choruses and other parts. Truly parents and youth worked unitedly in a program which was a challenge to everyone
FROM THE YOUTH PAGEANT, SMITHFIELD THIRD WARD
present to uphold the banner of purity." The characters were costumed in white and were effective against the blue back curtain on which was lettered in white and gold the words: "The worth of a soul is great in God's sight." The pageant was based upon one of the Relief Society objectives?"to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life." It was also a salute to youth, their achievements and their future, and offered a challenge to parents to maintain homes which foster righteousness. One feature of the pageant was the ship scene where a small trumpeter announced: "Relief Society is sailing along?won't
 ?FEBRUARY, 1941 NOTES FROM THE FIELD
you join our happy crew?" which was concluded by the audience singing the Relief Society rally song, "A Hundred Thousand Strong." Annie M. Farr is stake president of Relief Society in Smithfield Stake.
123
temple. About 275 people participated. Plans have been made to make this excursion an annual event." Clara A. Wickman is president of the Relief Society in this stake.
THE CONCLUDING SCENE OF THE PAGEANT, SMITHFIELD THIRD WARD
Emery Stake (Castle Dale, Utah)
MYRLE B. JOHANSEN, secretary-treasurer of Emery Stake Relief Society, sent the following account of the observance which marked the close of the Relief Society educational year in this stake in 1940: "At the close of our season's work, June 25, 1940, the Emery Stake Relief Society sponsored an excursion to the Manti temple. Members of Melchizedek Priesthood quorums and all members of Relief Society were invited to attend. Enroute to the temple, the excursionists assembled at the top of the mountain at 6:30 a. m. for a short program and breakfast. Our stake Singing Mothers sang at the morning program and later rendered two selections in the
Bear River Stake (Tremonton, Utah)
ELLA M. PECK, secretary-treasurer, reports that "the stake officers of Bear River Stake Relief Society, of which Clara H. Fridal is president, entertained the ward presidents at a breakfast, June 1, at the beautiful new church in the Tremonton Second Ward.
"Different phases of the work were discussed, and topics were given by stake officers and ward presidents, such as: What are we doing to get new members?to hold them and to decrease the "C" roll? The educational program for 1940 Church welfare plan Work-and-business Anti-liquor and tobacco control
124
The Magazine Membership Singing Mothers The Relief Society Song Book The instructions to stake secretaries given at April general conference.
"A crystal bowl of roses formed the centerpiece for the table, with tall tapers at either end. Favors de-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY, 1941
tended by 300 members and guests. The party was unique in the fact that every member present from the various wards participated in the program. Each ward brought its own lunch, arranged its own tables, and presented a part on the program. The accompanying picture shows
RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN OF ADAMS WARD, LOS ANGELES STAKE, IN GYPSY COSTUME
picting the Magazine were made by our stake Magazine representative.
"This breakfast was a very enjoyable affair, and we feel that much good will come from it."
Los Angeles Stake (California)
THE Los Angeles Stake, of which Mary S. Jordan is Relief Society president, closed its 1939-40 season with a picnic sponsored by the stake board and held at the stake center, May 24, 1940. The party was at-
Relief Society women of the Adams Ward in gypsy costume, who were awarded first prize for their outstanding performance portraying a gypsy camp with singing and dancing around a bonfire. The music furnished by this group, and directed by Minnie Eckert, was exceptionally fine. The Wilshire Ward received first prize for its beautiful and unique table decorations portraying a jungle scene.