[Work Meeting: Girls' Clothing by Jean Ridges Jennings]

Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Girls' Clothing Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, February 14, 1950 T'S fun to make clothes for girls.
There are so many lovely materials and clever styles from which to choose. Here's a place where you can exercise your hidden talents and ambitions as a designer by using onginality and individuality. Here, too, is much opportunity for fine handwork and dainty trimmings. In the opening lesson we talked of choosing becoming and appropriate styles and materials. 'This, of course, is most important. For small tots it is also vital that clothes be launderable.
There are so many attractive and dressy materials available from which to make little party dresses that can be freshened as often as need be by washing, that it seems unwise to make clothes that LESSON DEPARTMENT can't be laundered for children.
Dainty dotted Swiss, organdie, or the fine silky cottons in pastel shades can be made into dainty frocks that are as lovely as any taffetas or other silks and have the advantage of being tubbable.
Thus they can be worn oftener and with less worry and expense for upkeep.
While children's clothes should be made roomy enough to allow free movement, they should fit Properly when new. If too much room is allowed for growth, they may be old and shabby before the child grows into them.
When making girls' dresses, have them fit well when made, allowing a generous hem to be let down as the child gtows taller. A wide hem looks well and gives body to the skirt and is one Place where a dress can be readily adjusted for size.
Make dresses wel] and finish them neatly.
This may require more time at the beginning, but anything Which keeps them out of the mending basket is economy of both time and clothes. In Places where the greatest stress will come iN wearing, reinforce them with a double stitching.
This includes waistlines, around the armholes, and the bottom of It is always a good plan to provide a pocket, if the design allows, for conveniently carrying a hand- 775 kerchief. Have Pockets located at a 800d level so that the hands can rest in them without dragging them down.
Reinforce the corners of the Allowances must be made in the design for unusual full.
Many times a little "hikes" allowance has not been made in cutting for a chubby figure. A simple color scheme and plan of decoration are desirable.
Prints to itself.
There are many little details of workmanship that, while not fussy, add materially to the general appearance of dresses.
Instead of a plain scam at the waistline insert 4 narrow covered cord between the Waist and skirt. Try cording the edge of a yoke or the top of a cuff.
Trim the neckline and bottoms of sleeves with tiny well-made scallops.
Accent collars and cuffs with Tows of stitchIng or a very narrow binding. If you are having a collar, don't let it be too bulky.
Large collars are usually unbecoming to tiny tots. -~ > Star Nlustc Grace Sayre Sunset flung upon the sky, a measure Where all the latter notes of day were placed Upon a staff across the west—their music In golden chords—waiting the vesper song f evening's star-filled theme—serenely Spaced. 
776 
Literature— 'he