[Pioneer Recipe by Anna Prince Redd]

Pioneer Recipe Anna Prince Redd I remember a very old and a very respected, early pioneer of Panguitch, Utah. She lived alone in a log-room home on the edge of town.
Every day at exactly four P. M. A townswoman, taking her turn, would arrive (or her child would) at the cabin with a hot dinner for 'Aunt Mariar," as she was fondly called. One day when it was my mother's turn, she fixed the tray and sent me to deliver it. "Tell Aunt Mariar,'"' Mother said, "that I didn't have any eggs to make a cake today, but I'll make one tomorrow and send her two pieces. And be sure to tell her before you uncover the tray, or she'll be offended and won't eat any dinner. She loves cake."' Standing just beyond ''Aunt Mariar's" exactly.
Reaching hands, I delivered the message, Still living in her days of pioneer hardship, she leaned forward and cried out in a high-pitched voice: "Land sakes, child, you don't need eggs to make a cakel Just tell your Ma to add a little more soda to give it that yellow cast." A Customer in 4 STOcery store once In Practically a, €d the stor Keeper yj; t he had ~very phase of nature, if we In th Shape of bananas, « nly will only learn to find jt. But so Cucumbers * the y ply. | SupOF us rush 4Tound in the dail ~ POoSe neithe; f the stopped to Ine of our Ives and miss half the think that BENG on Jags Out of a un that Mothe Nature intended StOcery store Is there Another fryj} 8lve us.
Take vegetables, for jnthe 5
Ape of a ana. At least I've stance, D hey mean to you Just ne T seen one, have YOu? And it's "the edible Portion of plant" the same th vegetables. Each one Which you, 4s the house fe, mus IS as differe t from the Others in con. Prepare for the family year in an OUr as it is in Color and flavor year out because of heir foog value When hat Mythica] Character and Vitamin content? Or are the Mother Sured out vegePart of nature', Wealth in S°rgeous tables, | think she ust have been Colors and intriguing shapes? In a whi sical mood Else wh an yo imagine MOre vivid eo]. Would she have hidde the kernels Ors than the "{ lly green" fap Pof com—, W on 10
Per or the Orange of Carrots? | could be I ttle green balls Ore gorgeous than We call peas Inside their 4; deep Purple of an Cseplant which has a satiny sheen "ny pods? AS she so Pleased whe she de. €n that makes Ou veloped a Cabbage that she decided want to stroke it? If] WeTe an artist tO make it | Miniature SO creI'd like to Choose Such a Subject as ated Brussels SProuts? Ang then dig " §'0uping of Tuby-req Tadishes she get the Idea of having an atistoanked by bunches of fresh lookin Crat in the Cabbage family ang SO Water cress and hite Spting onions gave us cauliflower?
With their long steen tops. Fo; In- "1 she created Onions and terest I'q add a Couple of artichokes tomatoes Mother Nature Must have and Pethaps g ead Cauliflower, been in a "designing 00d." Some. He pure hite of its interesting time when you have an NON sto flowerets nestling in thei; Own green 4 ™nute and nop the somewhat Caves, d, for Contrast, J'g Put intricat, design of the center and in the deep, deep red of bunched See ho IS surround by rows ets. OF circles jn Imost perfec geomet 758 rical perfection. And speaking of design, note the intricate one which a tomato cut in half makes.- The dictionary says the tomato is "the fruit of a garden vegetable." Be that as it may, it is a vegetable to me and always will be. I wouldn't think of arranging a nice basket of fruit and putting a tomato right in the middle of it. In fact, I think the tomato would feel very uncomfortable. And now I'm going to tell how this article came to be written. I was invited by the Park Stake Relief Society board to represent the general board at a luncheon at the Lion House given in honor of the ward presidencies and secretaries of Relief Society in Park Stake. HE long tables were decorated in vegetables, and so well had the hostesses, under the able direction of Sister Janet Kirton of the stake board, caught the beauty and interest, as well as the humor, which vegetables afford, that it was one of the most unusual table decorations Simmons Photo Art Studio THREE ONION-HEADED MEN IN A BANANA-SQUASH BOAT  I have ever seen.
Right then I received permission to share this idea with other Relief Society members.
Asked where they got the idea, they said they had heard of such a table and had seen some pictures, but as they worked it out, innumerable ideas came to them. I shall describe as many as possible and hope you will try at least some of them, for such a table certainly puts your guests in a jovial mood the minute they see it. No doubt you will think of other unusual combinations according to the particular vegetables you have at hand.
Through the courtesy of Sister Ruby Karpowitz, President of Park Stake Relief Society, we are printing a picture of the decoration that centered the main table. For the background effect some unique branches dipped in harmonizing Shades of bright paint in fall colors were used. (See article in the June Relief Society Magazine by A. J.
Neff as to how to obtain and treat these odd-shaped pieces.) Cattails were added in the background and autumn leaves in the foreground of the arrangement. 'The place cards were small green tomatoes with a slit in the top to hold the card. The vegetables used, reading from left to right were as follows: A washer-woman whose head was a small onion, eyes were cloves, nose and mouth bits of finger peppers. Her cap was half of a red pepper, arms of string beans, bodice a whole red pepper with an acorn squash as her skirt. The wash tub was a tiny summer squash supported on tooth picks and the washboard was a piece of cardboard.
That queer looking bird that comes next was a crooked-necked squash with fancy buttons for eyes.
There were half THE INTEREST AND BEAUTY OF VEGETABLES
759
Simmons Photo Art Studio
A VEGETABLE FAMILY DECORATES THE TABLE a dozen other smaller birds, whose eyes were made of corsage pins, and identical with the first one, all of which were made from the same crooked-necked squash which come in a deep orange color.
In front of the birds was a nest of heavy grasses holding their make-believe eggs. The toadstools were summer squash, their stems being cardboard covered with fancy paper. The boat in the picture was a good sized one made of half a banana squash. The rowers were made with carrot bodies, onion heads with clove eyes, and arms of beans. The oars were straws and the sails corn husks.
Another quaint woman's figure had an onion head, summer squash bodice, acorn squash skirt, string bean arms, and a parasol made of half of a small green tomato, supported by a piece of macaroni for the handle.
Other figures not shown in the picture were smaller boats made of scooped out cucumbers. In this case the rowers' bodies were made of radishes with tiny onions for heads, and string bean arms. A sweet potato made a realistic fish, and queer-shaped Irish potatoes represented covered wagons. A realistic wheelbarrow had been cut from a green pepper, with carrot slices for wheels. Then there was a somewhat grotesque head made from an eggplant with Swiss chard turban
(held in place with toothpicks), onion eyes, red finger-pepper nose, and corn kernels for teeth, placed in the slit cut for the mouth.
I only hope that my readers will try out some of these ideas for their family gatherings on Thanksgiving day. The children will be especially pleased.

760
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER 1949
The Loving Friend of Children
(Continued horn page 729) take our baby any more, but often came in to caress her and play with her {Ibid., page
67).
We are able to fix the approximate date of the above incidents by reading Joseph's history. There we learn that his infant son, Don
Carlos, died at Nauvoo in August
1841.
I shall close this article with a brief statement by Bathsheba W.
Smith, wife of George A. Smith, the Prophet's cousin, who was well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith in Nauvoo. Regarding him she states:
In Nauvoo, at his home, while playing with my baby boy, he said that children were the "honor, glory and royal diadem of woman!"
I Saw Paricutin
(Continued from page 741)
We wound our way through the hills built of ashes, over the sawtooth lava ridges and then past the skeleton trees. As I slid and bobbed up and down, according to the terrain over which we passed, the grotesque, ghostlike figures with distorted bodies and twisted arms, assumed the mocking motions of my jolting and swaying body. Wearily I closed my eyes only to hear the weird incantations of their smothered young souls. Incredible! I called to Salvadore, "Are you there,
Salvadore?"
In a calm voice and from a short distance, he answered, "Si, si, Senora, I am here." Closing my eyes again I now recognized the muchacho's low, minor tones.
We stumbled on, arriving at San
Juan de las Colchas and our waiting pony owners. While I was being helped down, the little guide extended his hand and in the only
English word he ever uttered, he said, "Teep?" He clenched the proffered "teep" in his tiny fist and fleetly ran to his father. Apparently the parent was pleased for he said
"bueno'' to the lad.
Wearily I entered the waiting car.
The others followed. We settled down for the arduous return journey, but no one spoke. All of us were completely spent from having witnessed the Great Mother's magnificent travail. Thus I saw Paricutin—the earth's youngest and most obstreperous child.
Ujeautii in iorown
Josephine J. Harvey
There is warmth and loveliness that lies,
Within the depths of dark brown eyes.
My hands have touched velvet of soft cattails.
My feet have walked on brown earth trails;
I love Autumn for its bronze and gold
And all the beauty that my heart can hold.

Ancient Rites at a Modern Wedding
(Continued horn page 737) men came in and sat on the other.
Under no circumstances do they sit together. Even the bride and groom sat on opposite sides. The church was quite plain, having no elaborate statues or paintings. The walls were sparkling white, with only a border of yellow and black design, in the village motif used on the costumes.
The ceremony began with a strange, but delightful religious chanting, after which the minister stood and called for the couple to stand before him. He gave a lovely sermon to them on the meaning and holiness of marriage. The actual ceremony was very simple, with the bride and groom answering only
"With the help of God, I will," when the minister asked the question of love, honor, and obey. After that, the two went to their separate places again until the end of the service. Only after the service, and out in the street, did the two walk together in a procession to the home of the bride for feast ing. We went back to the home of the groom's parents, where we feasted along with the rest.
There was so much food that we just couldn't eat all they offered us.
These delightful country folk still eat in the same tradition of hundreds of years ago. The table was set with a series of large bowls in the center of the table.
Each person had his own spoon and they all ate from the common bowl. It was new and very interesting to watch, because they were gracious and courteous about it all.
Each took his spoonful 'as he wanted, and when the bowl became empty it was soon filled with more of the same until the next course.
They sat at the table almost all afternoon, eating and feasting. At about four in the afternoon a new ceremony took place at the home of the bride. The groom now took advantage of his rights, and asked the bride's parents if he might take her to his home to live with his family. The parents agreed and gave their blessing, but were very sad at the parting. The gitl took leave of her parents and, with her, she took her dowry, which consisted of a whole wagon load of feather beds and pillows. The wedding guests all accompanied them "home." On the way, they were stopped by a villager who had stretched a chain across the road.
Many villagers were gathered at this spot to watch the fun and join in the merriment.
This man stopped the wedding party, told the couple of their folly, and tried to bargain with them for the pillows. He was finally defeated in his attempts to make them unhappy, and so was satisfied when they paid him a few crowns in tax to go on. The couple entered the home of the groom, and the bride went immediately to his parents, and asked them if they would accept her into the family as one of their daughters.
This was a very touching ceremony, and tears of joy were shed as she was welcomed and blessed by the head of the household.
Thus being accepted, the feather beds were moved into the house by the maidPage 761 762 ens in the group. The feasting continued until midnight at which time the bride discarded her maiden's headdress, and donned one of a matron. The wedding cake was brought in at this time. It was a colorful one with a hole in the middle.
This was passed around and all present put money into the hollow cake, and each said something like this: "I bequeath you this money that you may remember to be a good and careful mother to your children."
Others gave money for the cradle, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1949 others gave some to help buy a first animal for their flocks and so on. The celebration and feasting lasted for three days and, all the while, the villagers helped with the cooking, with the chores in the fields, and with the cattle and flocks so that no time was lost by those celebrating. It was a real example of brotherhood, love, and cooperation. The whole world could gain a lesson by observing this good, simple, God-fearing people who love their neighbors as themselves. >