[Beauty in Brown by Josephine J. Harvey]

Beauty in (Brown Josephine ]. Harvey There is warmth and loveliness that lies, Within the depths of dark brown eyes. My hands have touched velvet of soft cattails, My feet have walked on brown earth trails; I love Autumn for its bronze and gold And all the beauty that my heart can hold. Ancient Rites at a Modern Wedding (Continued from page 737) men came in and sat on the other.
Under no circumstances do they sit together.
Even the bride and groom sat On opposite sides. The church was quite plain, having no elaborate statues or paintings. The walls were sparkling white, with only a border of yellow and black design, in the village motif used on the costumes. The ceremony began with a strange, but delightful religious chanting, after which the minister stood and called for the couple to stand before him. He gave a lovely sermon to them on the meaning and holiness of marriage. The actual ceremony was very simple, with the bride and groom answering only "With the help of God, I will," when the minister asked the question of love, honor, and obey.
After that, the two went to their separate places again until the end of the service.
Only after the service, and out in the street, did the two walk together in a procession to the home of the bride for feasting. We went back to the home of the groom's parents, where we feasted along with the rest.
There was so much food that we just couldn't eat all they offered us.
These delightful country folk still eat in the same tradition of hundreds of years ago. The table was set with a series of large bowls in the center of the table.
Each person had his own spoon and they all ate from the common bowl. It was new and very interesting to watch, because they were gracious and courteous about it all.
Each took his spoonful 'as he wanted, and when the bowl became empty it was soon filled with more of the same until the next course.
They sat at the table almost all afternoon, eating and feasting. At about four in the afternoon a new ceremony took place at the home of the bride. The groom now took advantage of his rights, and asked the bride's parents if he might take her to his home to live with his family. The parents agreed and gave their blessing, but were very sad at the parting. The gitl took leave of her parents and, with her, she took her dowry, which consisted of a whole wagon load of feather beds and pillows. The wedding guests all accompanied them "home." On the way, they were stopped by a villager who had stretched a chain across the road.
Many villagers were gathered at this spot to watch the fun and join in the merriment.
This man stopped the wedding party, told the couple of their folly, and tried to bargain with them for the pillows. He was finally defeated in his attempts to make them unhappy, and so was satisfied when they paid him a few crowns in tax to go on. The couple entered the home of the groom, and the bride went immediately to his parents, and asked them if they would accept her into the family as one of their daughters.
This was a very touching ceremony, and tears of joy were shed as she was welcomed and blessed by the head of the household.
Thus being accepted, the feather beds were moved into the house by the maidPage 761 762 ens in the group. The feasting continued until midnight at which time the bride discarded her maiden's headdress, and donned one of a matron. The wedding cake was brought in at this time. It was a colorful one with a hole in the middle.
This was passed around and all present put money into the hollow cake, and each said something like this: "I bequeath you this money that you may remember to be a good and careful mother to your children."
Others gave money for the cradle,  others gave some to help buy a first animal for their flocks and so on. The celebration and feasting lasted for three days and, all the while, the villagers helped with the cooking, with the chores in the fields, and with the cattle and flocks so that no time was lost by those celebrating. It was a real example of brotherhood, love, and cooperation. The whole world could gain a lesson by observing this good, simple, God-fearing people who love their neighbors as themselves. >