[Ancient Rites at a Modern Wedding by Martha Toronto]

Ancient Rites at a Modern Wedding Martha Toronto President, Czechoslovakian Mission Relief Society N this modern, rapidly changing world, there is a small village in Slovakia, Javornik by name, that still lives and abides by old and ancient customs. The good people of this village are very proud of the fact that there have been no changes in their customs or costumes for many centuries.
They live, in many respects, exactly as their fathers and great-grandfathers lived before them.. | A group of us had an opportunity to visit this strange and interesting village, as wedding guests at the marriage of a young man whose family is a substantial part of the citizenty of this town. We saw and learned of many customs that I, for one, had never dreamed still existed. 'The first and foremost is that the people live to a marked degree according to an old patriarchal order. In one house live four and often five generations. The old, old father is, of course, the head of the house. All the children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren abide by his counsel and his advice. At his death, the oldest of his sons inherits that position just as in ancient patriarchal days. As the family grows, the house is extended, to add rooms for further posterity. The houses become quite large, and many people live under the same roof, The most wonderful part about  it is that they live in harmony and righteousness, according to the laws and words of the Bible as they understand it.
They do not seek entertainment in dances, theaters, or picture shows, but rather spend their evenings in a family circle, reading the Bible and singing religious songs.
They study and sing from handprinted scriptures, many hundreds of years old, dating back to the time when the holy scriptures were forbidden outside the church. The songs they sing are scriptures set to a chanting music, different from anything I've ever heard before.
They sing a blessing on the food, as well as one of thankfulness after each meal. 'They seem to have a song for every occasion. The wedding to which we were invited was very interesting, first because of the costumes. The everyday dress here is a national costume. For the wedding, however, they wore their Sunday best. 'The women wear short, finely pleated skirts that are a bright yellow, worn over many full petticoats so they stand out and swing as they walk.
Over the skirt is a white gathered apron with handprinted flowers all over it. 'They do this hand printing themselves, and weave all the cloth for their costumes at home. 'They wear white blouses with heavily embroidered collars and sleeves and over this a white wool waistcoat, also embroidered in yellow, black, red, VILLAGE MATRONS IN THEIR NATIVE COSTUMES unmarried women Picturesque head. It is an attangement of smal] tibbon bows and flowers, with small round spangles forming the center of each flower.
These flowers completely cover their Christmas tree, ddress, and hanging to the several wi | down as the girls walk by. She carries no flowers. The bridegroom is dressed entire. Ly in light Blue.
Neckband and down the front. On his hat is also a bespangled decoration in g fan shape with a few feathers sticking out. The other men wear blue trousers, with white wool fingertip coats, flared around the hips.
Like the groom, very man in the wedding party wears the decoration on his hat. 736 void of inhabitants except for a flock of geese waddling about. We assumed that the people were inside their houses because of the heavy snow falling. We soon learned differently, however.
Upon entering the home of our host, we found that the house was full of not only relatives, but half of the villagers, feasting at long tables. 'The womenfolk were all in the kitchen pteparing the main meal of the day. On three or more work tables, one could see great pans full of veal cutlets, steaks, and pork roasts all in preparation for the big celebration. The women stopped from their labors long enough to give us a warm handshake and welcome us into the home. We were led into the main living room where about twentyfive men were seated at the long tables eating, drinking, and enjoying a good chat. 'They greeted us warmly, and we sat down with them in the large, low room, whose rafters nearly touched the heads of these tall men who had come to the wedding. 'The clean, nicely painted rafters serve as cupboard space for bedding as well as for colorful hand-painted dishes.
Even the large, fluffy feather beds, and pillows that are stuffed up into the ceiling have a colorful strip of handmade lace holding the ends of the white pillow cover together. In one end of the room is the large, fancy stove that reaches to the ceiling, looking very much like a monument.
After we sat down on the long bench behind the long table they brought us thick slices of country bread, cach slice about a foot long, with country-made smoked bacon fat, that looks like salt pork, which  we ate with the bread.
That is the greatest gesture of hospitality among the peasants in this country, and it is surprisingly tasty.
After this, they brought up plates of home-baked! Cookies, cakes, and pastries in every' form and shape and decorated with frostings, fillings, and whipped cream. 'They were delicious. As we met these people, one by' one, it seemed to me that everyone had the same name.
Upon inquiry, I was told that the inhabitants of this village use only four male names, and four female names. To me, it was very confusing, but to them it is very sensible. For generations, the men here have been known as either John, Thomas, Martin, or Paul, and the women as Eva, Katherina, Anne, or Elizabeth. In case there are more than four male or female babies born in a family, they start naming them over again as John II, Thomas II, Eva II, and so on. ' At about eleven o'clock, the bridegroom came into the room, dressed in his light blue costume, accompanied by his goodman, or advocate, who does all the talking for him. 'The best man, as we would call him, asks the parents of the bridegroom to give him their blessing. 'This, of course, is granted, and the words used throughout the ceremony both by parents and best man are Bible verses, and some of them are chanted.
After this little ceremony in the house, we all went outside to form a wedding procession, which was to march down the village street, to the strains of the town band, to the home of the bride. T was a strange procession, led by a group of the young male rela- ANCIENT RITES AT A MODERN WEDDING tives of the family.
These young fellows, dressed in their light blue pants and white, fingertip-length coats, flaring slightly from the waist, embroidered in red, blue, and green, made quite a picture as they danced and sang along the snow-covered country road.
Behind them came the town band attracting as much attention as the group ahead, but with the help of a drum and brass horns. It was the kind of an oldfashioned country band that one only reads about. It was interesting to actually see and hear one.
Following the band, came the bridegroom, very solemn and setious, accompanied by his best man, who, in a respect, acts as his lawyer, and his advisor.
Behind them walked the colorful group of young girls, with their bright costumes and gay headdresses. As they walked with light, almost dancing steps, their bright yellow skirts swung from side to side.
Even the tiny girls, some only five or six years old wore these costumes, and they looked so sweet with their little feet in boots, and their yellow skirts swinging.
Following the young girls came the matrons, whose dresses were somewhat more subdued and practical. The rest of the parade was made up of the wedding guests, including us, the foreigners, who must have looked strange in our modern dress of the western civilization. In this fashion we marched down the road to the home of the bride, where we found that more feasting and celebrations had been going on all morning. We entered the house, where the representatives or advocates of the bride and groom did all the talking, arguing back and forth 737 about the advantages and disadvan'ages of the marriage state.
During their somewhat heated discussion about the merits and disadvantages of marriage, they spoke in Biblical terms, using quotations from Paul, and various prophets.
They each quoted passages from the Bib. E on the subject, pro and con. Finally, the groom was quizzed on his knowledge of the Bible, which he knew very well, as does every inhabitant of this town. 'The advocates agreed that he was worthy to take a wife from the family and suggested that he choose his bride.
First an old, old lady was brought in, but he said she was not the one.
Then another, younger one, appeared, but she again, was not the one. In a moment the real bride was brought in and, upon the groom's request, the advocate asked the parents for her. 'The father gave his consent, upon which the girl went to her father, thanked him for the home, education, and all he had given her, and asked to be forgiven of all her wrongdoings. He gave her his blessing, and it was a very tender scene between father and daughter.
Then everyone came out of the house, and the parade started back again towards the small white church on the hill. The groom still walked alone with the men, and the bride walked in the group of maidens. The gaiety continued, but the bride and groom were very solemn and serious. At the church we sat in the visitors' balcony where we could view all the proceedings nicely. 'The women entered the church first, and sat on one side of the room. 'The (Continued on page 761) | Saw Paricutin Ann Rich VER since the morning paper flashed the news that a fire- — and-brimstone-hurling — volcano was being born in the flat cornfields of Paricutin, Mexico, I was possessed of an insatiable desire to see it. My husband listened indulgently whenever I dreamed aloud about such a journey. Our young son smiled superciliously, advising me to go into training before contemplating so rugged a trip. Our daughter was totally unimpressed. In spite of the indifference of my family, the idea of seeing Paricutin continued to smolder.
Four years later I was able to consummate my plans for the trip. As late as 1947 it was still possible to observe the prolonged birth throes of Paricutin, the Western Hemisphere's youngest volcano. On the 20th of February 1943, to the peaceful little farm village of Paricutin, Mexico, came the bewildering, disturbing, and soul-searing experience of witnessing the writhing agony of Mother Earth in labor. For these simple people it meant destruction of house, home, and field. The great Mother.
Trembled and they were frightened. She knocked at their doors and they knew not what it meant. She gathered her mighty forces and warned that her time had come.
Room and more room was needed for the birth, the birth of a baby volcano. And so, for these peasants, birth brought destruction. The four,