[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | November | Issue: 10 | Title: UNWRITTEN LAWS FOR OFFICERS | Author: AMELIA K. WING]

UNWRITTEN LAWS FOR OFFICERS
OF WOMEN'S CLUBS
BY AMELIA K. WING.
THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
	The requisites for a recording secretary not
set forth in the books are a clear, distinct
voice and manner of reading, and an orderly
and impartial habit of thought. Very simple
minutes can be made interesting by effective
utterances, and elaborate reports are often
sadly marred by a hurried manner, or a voice
that is pitched too low.
	Money decisions, elections and every
subject decided by vote, should always be re-
corded, but matters that are simply discussed
without, may often be omitted, unless the
subject is tabled for future consideration.
	In reporting papers that are read, a secretary
should avoid prolixity, entering only the
general line of thought.
	Club members are usually impatient during
the reading of a lengthy review of the
previous meeting, considering it a waste of
time.
	A secretary’s duty is simply to record, not
to express her own opinion; an annual report
however admits of more latitude. Her books
should be neatly kept, without crowding, with
full date, year, month and day preceding each
meeting, and with marginal notes to facilitate
references.
	THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
	It is understood that the corresponding
secretary should write a legible, business-like
hand, absolutely correct in style. Notices of
meetings and all notifications may be as brief
as possible and give the required information;
but let not the secretary be tempted by the
accumulation of notes to a discourteous brevity
in other correspondence.
	A personal note written with evident pains
to suit the individual case, is often a source of
great satisfaction. and reflects credit on the
club.
	THE TREASURER.
	A prompt, correct and efficient treasurer is
difficult to find, owing to the lack of training
women usually receive in this direction.
	Accuracy is, of course, the first requisite.
The bills for annual dues should be sent
promptly,in accordance with the requirements
of the by-laws,and the receipted bills returned
at once on receiving the money, the date be-
ing affixed to everything. Strictly business
methods seem to give the best results in money
matters.
	If a member is delinquent, simply sending
a second bill when the time has expired will
usually give the least offense.  Any attempt
[column 2]
at a courteous request might say too much or
too little. Whereas the purely business
method is absolutely impersonal, and carries
the idea of a like treatment for all.
	Should the second notice fail to secure a re-
sponse, the matter may then be refered to the
board of directors, to be treated according to
the constitution.
	The treasurer should not consider it an in-
terference on the part of any officer or member
to be asked the condition of the finances, and
in her annual report the expenditure should be
given in detail.
	THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	All the business of the club should be
decided by the board of directors, except such
subjects as require the co-operation of all the
members. The chairman should come to the
meetings with a full knowledge of the business
to be transacted, but she should never decide
any matter without first submitting it to the
full board, and she should report the proceed-
ings to the club meetings.
	The stationery and postage of the above
officers should be supplied by the club, as it is
manifestly unjust to require this expense in
addition to the time and labor given.
	CUSTODIANS
	If the club has well attended meetings,
custodians are most desirable, to have charge
of the arrangement of the seats, ventilation,
seating, etc. If possible they should be
familiar with the faces of the members, they
should welcome guests, and should always be
present half an hour before the opening of the
meetings.
