[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | November | Issue: 10 | Title: WOODLAND Y. L. M. I. A. H. | Author: Unknown]

WOODLAND Y. L. M. I. A. H.
				———
	Minutes of Annual meeting of the Y. L. A.
held in Woodland Ward, Sept. 28th. There
being present on the stand Bishop Moon and
Counselors, Pres. Hatch and Duke, Sister
Duke President of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations of Wasatch Stake and Counselor
Alexander, also Sister Ruth Hatch and Sister
Nicholson.
	Meeting opened by singing "Now let us re-
joice." Prayer by Brother Nephi Thayne,
continued, singing "Do what is right." The
roll was called showing an attendance of 18
members. Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	The programme was then proceeded with
as follows:
	Bible reading by Amanda Moon, Hattie
Neiber then read "A glass railroad," in a
very commendable manner; a correspondence
between Pres. Hanson and Ida Hoag, subject
"Goodwill and charity to one another."
	"People will talk," was then read in a very
pleasing manner by Lydia Moon. Pres. Han-
son and Lois Benson sang "Oh! how lovely
was the morning." The regular programme
then being finished.
	Pres. Duke then spoke a few moments say-
ing she was well pleased with the programme,
hoped we would continue in well doing, ad-
vised the young girls to select a partner in
life who was of the same faith as themselves,
and to always make a confident of their
mother; she thought it would be well for two
or three members to get together and visit
those that did not attend, some little good
might come of it.
	Sister Nicholson gave some good advice and
counsel, said she was pleased to see the ad-
vancement in the young ladies as they once
belonged to the Primary.
	Sister Alexander then called upon the Lord to
bless us.
	Sister Ruth Hatch said it was pleasant to
be with the young ladies in the capacity of a
meeting and to note their well doing. Felt it
was a noble work.
	Brother Duke said he felt pleased to be
numbered with the Saints, was pleased to see
each one take their part so well; advised all to
study that which was elevating to the human
mind; each one taking their part when called
upon all could be mutually benefited.


Pres. Hatch said the development of the
past will be no comparison to the develop-
ment of the future.  That it would do no good
to talk on honor, virtue and other good sub-
jects unless we let them sink down into our
hearts.  He liked good intellectual feasts, ad-
vised all that could to go to school; and all to
strive to gain intelligence. Felt pleased with
the proceedings of the day.
	Bishop Moon said he felt pleased and edi-
fied with the remarks from the visitors, hoped
each one would try to put the good counsel 
into practice.  That all ought to do their best
to attend the meetings as there we could gain
knowledge if it was sought after with a pure
humble spirit.
	Meeting then adjourned by singing “Praise
to the man.” Prayer by Coun. Ephraim Lam-
bert.
				Murzie Hanson, Pres.
				Ida Hoag, Sec. Pro tem.


[column 1]
