[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: HOSPITAL. | Author: Unknown]

HOSPITAL.

    IT was a  very  unpretentious  old  adobe
building, but it was there my life was saved
on March 18th, 1891.
    Through the kindness of the Gunnison
R. S., to whose credit some donations in
years past had been placed, I was sent
there for treatment.
	Drs. J. M. Benedict  and S. B. Young
performed an operation which relieved me
of two large ovarian tumors,  weighing 35
pounds; and so skillfully did they do their
work that I not only did not feel the oper-
ation in the least, but in ten days I was up
and improved right along; and through the
excellent nursing and diet I received there,
in 25 days after the operation I was able to


walk out of that, to me, so memorable
place.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt was resident phy-
sician at this time and was very able and
kind to the sick. The nurses and attend-
ants were both cheerful and helpful. I
remember there was a young brother there
his name was George Blanton or Blan-
thorne. He would sing for and pray with
the sick, as the case might be, and was of-
ten called to the bedside of the sick to
administer to them.
	It is to be hoped that in some future day
we will have another Deseret Hospital, or
some such institution where the same spirit
reigns, established again.
	And I feel that I must give Drs. Bene-
dict and Young, this all too tardy acknow-
ledgement. They knew, for I had told
them, that I had nothing to pay them with.
But that made no difference to those two
noble men. They treated me with as much
delicacy and consideration as if they had
been prepaid a royal sum.
	The hand of Dr. Benedict may tremble
now—but that same trembling hand has
done much to bless the poor as well as
those who were able to pay.
	Once of my boys was struck in the
face by a horse, receiving a large ugly
wound. He was taken in the patrol
wagon to one of the large hospitals in Salt
Lake City. He lay there for many hours
without anything being done for him, as
they did not know who was going to pay
for it. After he regained consciousness he
called for Dr. Benedict, who took his case
in hand and charged nothing. The same
boy was stricken down with typhoid fever,
and the same kind Dr. Benedict went every
day in his own conveyance to 12th East,
until he (to use the Dr’s. term) “pulled
him through. ” But he charged nothing
for it.
	I have heard the names of Drs. Bene-
dict and Young mentioned in connection
with such other deeds of unselfishness and
benevolence, which none but God can fit-
tingly reward. And they know that such
reward is sure.
	And our sweet gentle Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
I shall never forget her kindness to me in
my distress. To those who may be afflict-
ed as I was, let me say, do not hesitate to
call in surgical help. For although we
have no Deseret Hospital, and we may
have very few Benedicts and Youngs
yet we have able and efficient physicians in
all our cities and towns, who are able if
called upon in time, to save a life, which
in my case was very near too late.
			THOMINE EINARSON.
Gunnison, July 27, 1896.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


<div>[Column 1]</div>LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Synopsis of the Minutes of the meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Satur-
day, May 15, 1896, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Our God we
raise to Thee’’, prayer by Sister M. O.
Brown, singing, “Welcome best of all
good meetings’’, Minutes of the previous
meeting read and approved. President
Horne addressed the sisters a short time;
spoke of the power of the adversary, but
felt we must be humble and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all His dealings
with His people; called upon Sister Alder
to give a description of her visit with the
Tabernacle choir to San Francisco. The
secretary of the Primary Association of the

[Column 2]
15th Ward then read her minutes. Sister
Alder told of her anxiety to go to Cali-
fornia as she had never visited there and
her parents at one time resided in San
Francisco. When the company pulled out
of the depot they were a happy crowd, and
felt the Spirit of the Lord was with them.
The reception of the choir at Oakland at
the first concert when they sang the
Hallelujah Chorus, was an ovation, the
audience rose to their feet. It certainly
seemed to be appreciated there more than
here at home; thought the prayers of those
at home were being answered. Refered to
the sermon of Apostle Heber J. Grant,
had never heard anything like it—it was
grand; some of the choir had remarked
that if no one in San Francisco was con-
verted, that they themselves were, and
they wanted on their return home to live
their religion. The speaker refered to the
great good the missionaries there were
doing; urged the sisters never to forget that
the Gospel is true.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of trusting
and sustaining our leaders; refered to the
little babe whose mother had died on the
Islands and who had been brought home
by the returning missionaries; felt that
there was a great destiny for that child.
She also exhorted the sisters to greater
diligence, and urged them to take more
interest in Temple work, and to keep the
Sabbath day holy; asked the Lord to bless
us all. Sister Alder added a few words
about the sisters in California who were
desirous of having an organization of the
Relief Society.
	Counselor Stevenson made a few re-
marks and spoke of her trip to Europe
several yeare ago, and of the
treatment she received from the pilot’s
wife when she found out that she was a
Mormon; remarked there was great need of
missionary work here at home, she had
given up every thing for her religion; felt
the need of our prayers for our young mis-
sionaries. Realized that God had changed
the hearts of the people of the world to-
wards us; knew that trials were to make
us humble, fasting and prayer would bring
a blessing; urged all to be faithful.
	Some other sisters in the congregation
bore excellent testimonies. The sisters
joined in singing “The Spirit of God” etc.
Sister Elizabeth Paul bore testimony that
while the hymn was being sung she felt
the influence of the Holy Spirit powerfully,
and a voice spoke to her, and she bore a
strong testimony of the truth of the Gospel.
Another sister bore testimony of the Word
of Wisdom, and Sister M. J. Smallie also
testified of the truth and refered to her
early experiences in the Church in Scot-
land. Related a dream she had about
a young man who had died and who ap-
peared to her and wanted to be officiated
for in the Temple; felt she wanted to
acknowledge God’s blessings to her.
	Presldent Horne closed with a few words
of blessing, Singing Doxology, prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
