Lillie Chipman Adams Isabel B. Callister Member, Relief Society General Board work ye see me do,'" are the grand keywords of our wonderful humanitarian organization, the Relief Society. An unwavering faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and strict obedience to all the gospel principles and to the Savior's teachings of righteousness, love, and service, are the grand key ideals of our new General Board member, Lillie C. Adams. To serve diligently, lovingly, and abundantly is the prime joy of Sister Adams' life. A strong testimony of the gospel and loving service have endowed her with these rare gifts: richness of spirit, unselfishness of heart, and peace of mind. She has always shown a high degree of culture and refinement. 'Through a blending of the important prerequisites, spirituality, wisdom, understanding, enthusiasm, and charm, she has developed leadership and an ability to inspire others. Her appointment to the General Board is the culmination of faithful performance in all Church auxiliaries in which women have the privilege and honor to exert their influence, 66 SAID Jesus, Ye shall do the LILLIE CHIPMAN ADAMS and give of their time and talents. For the past three years, she has served as president of the Emigration Stake Relief Society; prior to that time, she was president of the University Ward Relief Society. She served on the Relief Society and Sunday School boards of the Alpine Stake, and on the Y. W. M.1. A. Board of the Ensign Stake. LILLIE CHIPMAN ADAMS 27 She was a teacher in the Primary Association, and for eight years, was a principal of the University Ward Junior Seminary.
Sister Adams was born in American Fork, Utah, a daughter of Henry and Sarah Binns Chipman, true Latter-day Saints, who enriched their home with a spirit of harmony, industry, and reverence. Sister Adams' fervent prayer, as a child, was that she might be able to retain a knowledge of her studies. Our Heavenly Father has indeed blessed her with a great power of memory. Beautiful gems of scripture and literature are always at her command.
After graduating from the University of Utah, she taught school in American Fork. She married Arthur Adams, who was in the sheep and wool business. Their life together is a perfect example of devotion and co-operation. They were blessed with an outstanding son, Howard C. Adams, a graduate of Annapolis Naval Academy, and a Commander in World War II.
In prayerful humility, Sister Adams has always sought first the "kingdom of God and his righteousness," and all the precious things of life have been added unto her.