[Vol24 | June 1937 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Literature | Title: Trifles Light As Air]

Trifles Light As Air
A Play in Two Scenes and a Foreword
By Rosannah C. Irvine

CHARACTERS*
GOSSIP, an attractive young woman, fashionably dressed.
WISDOM, a wholesome, sincere young woman dressed modestly, but in excellent taste.
FRANCES, a typical young wife and mother.
ELIZA, commonly called Lide. A true friend, and peacemaker.
DAISY, knows everybody's affairs and talks all the time. When the girls interrupt her, as they do constantly, she continues talking in an undertone to herself until she catches someone's eye, when she uses a louder tone to hold the attention.
BELLE, kind and friendly, but listens to gossip.
SADIE, good-natured, carefree, irresponsible, and always laughing.
EVE, sweet, gentle, and considerate.
KITTY, sometimes malicious, always likes to create a sensation.
JOHNNY JUNIOR, four year old son of Frances.

*(The names of the characters in this play are fictitious, chosen at random. If they are the names of any persons, it is merely a coincidence.)
†(These seven girls have known one another since childhood. There is a deep and sincere affection established through long association. This feeling must be apparent to the audience, in spite of the sharp, ill-natured things they say. Just as children in a united family sometimes quarrel without disturbing the love existing among them.)

FOREWORD

GOSSIP, (enters, left, in front of the curtain). I am Gossip. I need no introduction. You all know me. I am the most popular person in any group. I am the center of attraction. I am a particular favorite among people of leisure. I am theatrical. I love to startle people. I have many moods. Sometimes I am pleasant and amiable. However, I am frank to say, I do not enjoy being kind and gentle. It's too innocuous. I prefer to be dramatic and fascinating. The most dull and inoffensive story can be made attractive by the addition of a little spice. And the more one has of spice the more one wants. Many people pretend not to like me. Usually it is only a pretense. My experience is that most people like a touch of slander. Some people try to avoid me. That is because they are afraid they may become too fond of me. Even people who honestly dislike me yield to my fascination if I can win their attention. I am really in my glory if I can attract such people and distort an innocent piece of news into a hateful bit of malice. That is spice, and I love it. Most of you here know me and like me. You see me often. You meet me on every street corner, and at all your parties. I shall be at your next social gathering, I hope. If you are all there, I'm sure I shall be there also. (Exit, left.)

WISDOM (enters, right, as Gossip disappears), I am Wisdom. You all know me, I think. Most of you are my friends. Unlike Gossip, I cannot say that I am always welcome in every assembly, especially not where she is holding the center of the stage. I am neither amusing nor theatrical. I am more soothing than startling. I do not seek the lime light and seldom am I in it. Many people think I am unfriendly and austere. I am neither; but I am too reserved and shy to force myself upon the attention of anyone.

It is the part of wisdom to counsel those who desire justice and truth; and I am always eager to assist those who seek me, (exit, right).

SCENE I

(The curtain rises on the well furnished living room of Frances Moore. The room is attractive with plants and flowers. The seven girls, Frances, Eliza, Daisy, Belle, Sadie, Eve, and Kitty are discovered sewing and chatting. They all seem to be talking at the same time.)

DAISY (speaking above the din), Did you know that Jane and Harvey have broken up? I saw her last night with Tom. She looked gorgeous. She had on a— (She goes right on talking after the others have taken up the thread of her theme.)

BELLE, Well, I don't blame him. In spite of her lovely clothes, she's a flat tire.

KITTY, Harvey's chasing after that little Jones girl, now. That is, when somebody else gives him a chance. (Kitty, Daisy, and Belle exchange significant glances. Eliza glares at them. Frances does not notice.)

SADIE, (hastily), Say, Fan, I haven't seen Junior for months. Can't I just tiptoe out on the sleeping porch and take a peep at him?

FRANCES, I hope he's still sleeping. Be careful not to disturb him.

EVE, I want to go, too. I won't waken him.

DAISY, Oh yeah! I can't imagine either of you looking at that child without kissing him. Don't let them go, Lide. They'll be sure to— (She goes on talking.)

EVE, Don't be a crab, Daisy. Of course we won't disturb him.

SADIE, Speaking of crabs, don't you dare to crab my chair while I'm gone (Exeunt Eve and Sadie.)

DAISY (continuing in a louder tone, as if she had not even stopped for breath), Fan, you shouldn't have let them go. Of course they'll wake him. Well, I'm going to take her chair anyway, here by the window. I don't care what she says. She can't have everything, the best chair, the best light, and seeing the baby and everything— (She takes Sadie's sewing and puts it on the chair she has just vacated, and seats herself in the other one.)

BELLE, Fan, doesn't Johnny come home to lunch?

FRANCES, He usually does, but he's doing some extra work at the office right now. And, besides, I didn't want him around today.

KITTY, I'll wager he didn't want to come home today, anyway. I have a hunch that he isn't especially fond of this club. Come on, Fan, fess up. He doesn't like us, does he?

FRANCES (laughing), Well, to tell you the truth, Kit, he says that individually you are all just grand, but, that collectively he thinks we're the worst gang he's ever known. He says we ought to be ashamed to call ourselves the Pleiades. He calls us the Sensational Seven. He says that's more appropriate than naming ourselves for stars whose business it is to shed light and beauty on this dreary world.

KITTY, I get it. He not only doesn't like us, he thinks we're a menace.

DAISY, Do you really think he thinks that? I'm sure I'm not a menace to—

ELIZA, Of course you aren't, Daisy. Kitty was just fooling.

DAISY, Well, I don't care. If he told Fan—

(Sadie and Eve enter each holding a hand of Junior.)

DAISY, There! What did I tell you? You girls ought to—

FRANCES, Junior, darling!

SADIE, Fan, he was lying there wide awake.

EVE, Fan, he has the most angelic smile. He smiled at us, and then clambered out of bed. He says he's a Pleiades, and wants to see the party.

DAISY, I suppose you rocked him bye-bye again like the good nurses you are—not! You just wait till your children—

(The girls all make a fuss over Junior, each giving him a hug and handshake. He is friendly and polite and quite self possessed. Sadie and Daisy have a good natured squabble over the chair. Sadie finally wins and seats herself smiling.)

DAISY (grumbling), I always get the worst of everything. I wish I—

FRANCES (taking Junior on her lap), Darling, why didn't you have your nap?

JUNIOR, I don't have to have no nap when I'm four years old.

FRANCES, Dearest, you mustn't say that. You should say, "I don't have to have any nap when I'm four."

JUNIOR (with conviction), All right! I don't have to have any nap when I'm four.

FRANCES, But darling, you do! You have to have a nap every day, so you'll grow big and strong like Daddy.

JUNIOR, But, Mommie, you said I don't have to have any nap when I'm four. (Laughter.)

BELLE, You certainly did say that, Frances. He got you that time. You'll have to watch your step with that child.

FRANCES, Run into the bedroom, sonny, and put on your shoes.

JUNIOR, All right, Mommie. (Exit.)

BELLE, Fan, he's the sweetest thing I've ever seen.

DAISY, You always talk in the superlative, Belle. You'll have to be more careful around this crowd. Most of us have little darlings of our own. My Jean is the cutest thing. Yesterday Charles asked her—

EVE, I'd like to steal him, Fan. Suppose you let me have him. I'll give you our house and lot, and a note for a million dollars.

DAISY, Just when could you get a million dollars? You know that Styers woman? Well, she went to—

ELIZA, Oh, Daisy, we've all heard the story. I don't believe there's a word of truth in it . . .

DAISY, Well, it is true whether you believe it or not. You never believe anything, Lide. You're always on the defensive when—

FRANCES (looking fondly at Junior who is sitting on the floor near her struggling with his shoes), Not a chance, Eve, much as I think of you. It's almost a sin the way Johnny loves that child. I tremble when I think—if anything should happen—

(Kitty and Belle look at each other.)

ELIZA (belligerently), Nothing's going to happen! He's as healthy as a young cub. And you and Johnny are healthy, sane, and in love.

(Kitty and Belle again exchange glances. This time Frances catches the look. She is surprised at Lide's tone.)

FRANCES, Of course nothing could happen.

DAISY (with a heavy sigh), You never can tell! Such atrocious things happen nowadays. Men fall in love with other—

SADIE, Now, Dismal Daisy, remember your failing.

ELIZA (speaking sharply, at the same time Sadie speaks), Daisy, if you would think more and talk less, you'd be better off. Why must you vocalize every thought that pops into your head?

DAISY, Well, what on earth have I said now? You don't need to all jump on me every time I open my mouth. I only said—

FRANCES (uneasily picking up Junior and hugging him), Death is the only thing that could separate us. (then lightly), Who started this anyway?

DAISY, There are lots of things worse than death. You know that Dale man? Well, he and—

FRANCES (jumping up), Oh girls, I forgot the candy. I made some this morning. Excuse me a minute.

GIRLS (all together), Fan, how lovely! Your delicious candy!

FRANCES, Junior darling, you be a good boy. (Exit.)

JUNIOR (climbing on Lide's lap), All right, Mommie.

DAISY, Isn't Fan the innocent one! She's either a mighty good actor or the most simple—

ELIZA, Daisy, if you don't keep quiet, I'll brain you.

DAISY (grumbling), I never can say anything without you all jumping on—

SADIE, Why don't you try it sometime—not saying anything?

DAISY (aggrieved), You girls all say such mean things to me, sometimes I think you don't like me. I don't talk half as much—

KITTY, Well, I must say Fan must be both deaf and blind not to see what's going on.

ELIZA, Kit, you ought to be muzzled. You're not a kitten any more. You're grown. Johnny's a grand person, and he's devoted to Fan.

BELLE (pleasantly), Lide, being an old maid, is still an optimist.

SADIE, Meow! Meow!

(Frances enters with a plate of candy which she passes around. The girls all take some, and exclaim with delight.)

ELIZA, Junior darling, do you want a little of it?

JUNIOR, No, Aunt Lide, I want a big of it. (Laughter.)

ELIZA, All right, Sweetness. May I give him a big of it, Fan?

FRANCES, He may have a very small piece with no nuts. Here's one for you, Precious.

(She gives him a piece. The telephone rings. Frances leaves the room to answer it. The girls all begin to talk at once. Above the hum of voices only the following is heard.)

DAISY, It's terrible the way Johnny is carrying on with that Jones girl. If Frances had her wits about her—

EVE (Sweetly), Daze, you talk too much, if you know what I mean.

DAISY, Oh, I know what you mean all right, but you needn't preach. I saw them the other day and he was—

SADIE, Did you know that that Jones girl is flying to Chicago this afternoon? They say she's going to be married.

BELLE, And will Johnny be disconsolate. It's disgusting the way she runs after him.

SADIE, The eternal quest, you know. I feel sorry for Fan. She's too grand a person to have that happen to her.

KITTY, Lide, you ought to put Fan wise to what's going on. He's making an awful fool of himself.

ELIZA, Kit, you ought to be more careful with your tongue. If you love Fan as much as you ought to, you couldn't spread such lies. And besides, (indicating Junior) "Little pitchers have big ears."

JUNIOR, Am I little pitchers, Aunt Lide? That's what my Daddy says sometimes.

ELIZA, Yes, darling, I'm afraid you are.

JUNIOR, But, Aunt Lide, they hang pitchers on walls. I don't want to be hung.

ELIZA (laughing and hugging him), Heaven forbid! It's pictures they hang on walls, Precious, not pitchers.

JUNIOR, Are my ears very big, Aunt Lide?

KITTY, I'll say they are!

JUNIOR, (putting his arms around Lide's neck, he whispers in her ear. The girls all stop talking.)

DAISY (in an aggrieved tone), Just look at that! I can shout at this gang till I'm black in the face, and nobody pays the least attention. But let even a baby whisper, and every last one of you—

SADIE, What's the secret, Junior?

ELIZA (laughing), May I tell them, Junior? (Junior nods his head) I don't believe it is a secret. It is a pretty wide spread belief. He asked me if all women are liars.

(The girls all shriek)

JUNIOR (solemnly), My Uncle Bill says they are.

BELLE, What does your Daddy say?

JUNIOR, My daddy says he 'sposes they are, all but Mommie and Aunt Lide.

KITTY, Ho-ho! The two perfect women.

JUNIOR, Aunt Lide, when I grow up, will you marry me? (Laughter.)

ELIZA (seriously), I couldn't, Honey. By the time you're a man I'll be an old lady. Probably I'll have false teeth, and a wig and walk with a cane.

JUNIOR (with a heavy sigh), Then I see where I'll be a bachelor (Laughter)

SADIE, There's a poser for you, Lide. Why break the heart of this gallant lover?

FRANCES (entering, excited) That was Johnny on the phone. He's just had a call to meet a man in Chicago. He's flying this afternoon. The plane leaves at five. I'll have to pack his bag. Will you girls excuse me for a few minutes? (exit. The girls look at each other significantly. After a moment's silence they all begin to talk again.)

DAISY, Well, ain't that sumpin'! I've heard of quick work, but this—

KITTY, What do you say to that, Lide? That Jones hussy is going to Chicago on that plane. (Junior takes a box of toys and plays with them on the floor. He pays no attention to the conversation.)

ELIZA, It is the merest coincidence.

BELLE, Of course Johnny's hurry up trip to Chicago doesn't prove anything; but it certainly doesn't look so good.

SADIE, Why be hard on the poor man. Every dog has his day.

EVE, I don't believe half they're saying, but I do feel sorry for Fan. She's such a darling.

KITTY, Darling but dumb. If she would only wake up, she might stop all this before it goes too far.

DAISY, That's just it. I said to Mrs.—

ELIZA, For pity's sake, girls, hush! Fan will hear you.

KITTY, That's the best thing that could happen to her.

ELIZA, Do you have to believe and repeat every vile thing you hear? That's a queer way of showing friendship. Slander repeated, is like a snow ball rolling down hill. It gains momentum and volume with every turn over.

BELLE, It's my friendship for Fan that makes me want her to know what's going on.

KITTY, Even you believe it, Lide. You know you do. You can't deny it.

ELIZA, Deny it? Of course I can. Is travelling on the same train with a woman sin? Johnny is the soul of loyalty.

(Frances enters unobserved. Hearing the last remark, she backs out hastily.)

BELLE (significantly), Well, you ought to know.

KITTY, It's enough to convict him in my eyes. I saw them together last night. I bet they cooked it up then.

SADIE, Kit, I'd hate to be you. You spend only part of your time with other people. But you're always with yourself. Imagine having to live every minute of your life, night and day, with such a disposition.

KITTY, You keep out of this, Sadie. You know perfectly well, Lide, that he's crazy about that little snip. He's with her every day.

ELIZA, Kit, I tell you you're a kitten no longer. You're grown up, and have full grown claws.

KITTY (angrily), Say, Lide, you smile when you say things like that to me! The trouble with you, Eliza, is that you're in love with him yourself. Everybody but Fan knows that, too.

ELIZA, That's the meanest thing you ever said, Kitty. And it's utterly false. Just because I'm not married, why do you think I'm in love with the husband of my dearest friend?

BELLE, Everybody thinks it's true Lide.

DAISY, Everybody but Fan. She's so innocent that—

EVE, Well, for one don't believe it, Lide. I never even heard it before.

SADIE, Every man is innocent in the eyes of the law, until proven guilty.

KITTY, Well, Johnny's guilty if you listen to me.

ELIZA, Kit, I wish, sometime when you're saying disagreeable things, that you would look in a mirror. It would make you change your hateful expression and overcome your mean disposition.

KITTY, It's the truth that hurts. And some people can't take it.

DAISY, Well, I know that Johnny and that little minx are—

EVE (Sweetly), As I often tell you, Daisy, you talk too much.

ELIZA (harshly), Daisy, you're worse than Kit. Did it never occur to you that silence is a wonderful attribute? (picking up a book from the table) Let me read you something that Fan has marked. Here it is, (reads) "Do thou thyself but hold thy tongue for one day; on the morrow how much clearer are thy purposes and duties; what wreck and rubbish have these mute workmen within thee swept away, when intrusive noises were shut out!" That is from Maeterlinck.

DAISY (indignantly), Intrusive noises! Well, I like that! As a matter of fact I don't talk any more than any one else. I only say—

BELLE, I believe that Johnny is in love with that wench, but I really don't know anything.

EVE, There's mighty little we do actually know in this world, when it comes right down to it. So we should be very careful what we say.

DAISY, Well, I know that if Charles did anything like that to—

ELIZA, Johnny hasn't done anything, I tell you. Why are you so anxious to destroy the happiness of this family?

EVE, Yes, girls, put up your hatchets.

DAISY, I only said I thought Fan ought to—

KITTY, Where there's smoke there must be some fire.

SADIE, I think we had better call this the Tomahawk Club. Or better still, let's lay off other people's faults and try to correct our own.

EVE, Today we've certainly lived up to Johnny's opinion of us,—a gang of scandal mongers.

KITTY, That's his defense, in case Fan gets wise.

(Frances enters. She is pale and trembling. She speaks with cold calmness.)

FRANCES, I think I'm wise now, girls. You've left nothing unsaid.

(The girls are overwhelmed with what they have done. They all talk at once.)

ELIZA, There isn't a word of truth in what has been said, Fan dear.

BELLE, We were just on a gossiping jag, Fan. I'm sorry.

DAISY, I didn't say anything, Fan. Johnny's grand. He only—

SADIE, Johnny's all right, Fan, and everybody knows he's crazy about you.

EVE, It was contemptible to repeat such silly chatter. Don't believe a word of it, Fan.

KITTY (feeling truly guilty and penitent), I'm sorry, Fan, for what I said. Please forget it, and forgive me. We'd better go, girls.

(They gather up their sewing. Eliza goes into the bedroom and brings out their hats, etc. All but Eliza seem hurried and looking chagrined and unhappy. Junior has been playing on the floor. Frances takes him on her lap. He sits rocking nervously.)

ELIZA, Fan dear, don't mind their gossip. Even Kit doesn't believe what they said. I love you, dear.

FRANCES (interrupting her coldly), You're too ardent a champion to be convincing, Eliza. You are only hurting his cause. You had better go, too.

ELIZA, Fan, I'm your best friend. Please don't believe what they said. I love you, dear.

FRANCES (losing her self-control) Will you please go, and leave me alone! I don't need your love nor your pity.

(Eliza prepares to go. Junior, realizing that something is wrong, tries to comfort his mother. She hugs him tightly, rocking silently.)

ELIZA (leaving reluctantly), Good-bye, Frances. I'm still your friend, darling.

(Exit. Frances, still rocking silently with her boy in her arms, begins to sob violently as the curtain falls.)

SCENE II

(It is the same room several months later. There are no signs of festivity. Most of the chairs have been removed. There is one small bunch of flowers on the table. Frances is sitting by the window sewing. She appears older and less carefully groomed. She is unhappy and worried. Eliza enters as the curtain rises. There is excitement under her studied calmness.)

ELIZA (cheerfully), Hello, Fan. How is he today?

FRANCES (coldly), He's about the same, thank you.

(Eliza lays a package on the table and then takes her things off.)

ELIZA, I brought some oranges for Junior. Shall I peel one for him?

FRANCES (in a low, hostile tone), No! He's asleep. Lide, I don't see why you keep on coming here.

ELIZA (sitting down near Frances), Because, in spite of your unfriendly attitude, I believe that you need me. I'm sorry for you, Fan, and I'm terribly interested in Junior.

FRANCES (harshly), I don't need you nor your pity. I know why you come. So does everybody else. (wildly) You come to gloat over me.

(Eliza starts up angrily. Then she gains her self control. She goes to Frances, but does not touch her.)

ELIZA (sternly), Frances, you must listen to me. You're letting a crazy idea get possession of you. And if you are not careful, it will drive you insane. You've accused me of loving Johnny. I do love him. I've always loved him. He and I played together when we were babies, and we've been the dearest friends all our lives. I've known him longer than I have you, Fan. I think he's one of the grandest persons I have ever known. But I've never loved him in the way you think. I'm not in love, with him, and never have been. I've never told you a falsehood, Fan, and you ought to believe me now. As a matter of fact, I'm in love with someone else. (She shows Frances a ring on the third finger of her left hand.)

FRANCES (suddenly interested), Really, Lide, are you engaged? That's wonderful. Who is he?

ELIZA, Arnold Travers. I don't believe you know him. But he and Johnny are good friends. We were engaged once before, and broke up because of a silly misunderstanding. That's when we were in college. Johnny and he and I were there together. We've both been terribly unhappy ever since, but neither would make the first move. It was only when we realized how unhappy Johnny is that we came to our senses. Arnold and Johnny have been together a good deal lately. He wrote me a while ago, asking if he might come to see me. I wired him to come.

FRANCES (weeping), Oh Lide, forgive me. I'm glad for your happiness, but I'm so unhappy.

ELIZA (sitting down by her.) Of course you are, you foolish girl. (Earnestly,) Fan, I'm going to talk to you, whether you like it or not. You see now that you were utterly wrong about me, and you are dead wrong about Johnny.

FRANCES (hotly), Lide, I've asked you never to mention his name to me. The least you can do is to let me forget.

ELIZA, I have something to say to you, Fan, and I'm going to get it off my chest before I leave this house. (Frances starts up indignantly), Hold your horses, Fan, and sit down. You might as well listen, for I'm going to keep right on talking. I tell you Johnny is the soul of honor, and loyalty. Even if he were as guilty as you try to make yourself believe he is, he would still deserve a chance to make good with you, because he loves you. You are not perfect yourself, you know. I like loads of other people you wrap yourself around with your saintly hypocrisy. You don't give a hoot what becomes of Johnny, just so long as you preserve your precious dignity. You banish him from home and family, and ruin three lives, because your silly pride has been injured. You turn against the man you love and who loves you far more than you deserve, and the father of your boy. And what's it brought you? Unhappiness! And you deserve all you'll ever get of that. Good people,—people who are truly good, are kind and forgiving. But you're hard and selfish. I'm like Sadie, I don't want to go to heaven if it's going to be full of your kind of good people.

FRANCES (who has been restless during this tirade, springing up indignantly), You can't talk like that to me! I won't stand it! You're a shrew. You talk of kindness. You claim to be my best friend. And when I need friendship and kindness you come here and scold me. You don't know how I feel. You never will know till it comes to you. I won't stand your meddlesome interference in my affairs. If you were as kind as you pretend to be, you wouldn't

ELIZA (sternly), Frances, you must listen to me. You're letting a crazy idea get possession of you. And if you are not careful, it will drive you insane. You've accused me of loving Johnny. I do love him. I've always loved him. He and I played together when we were babies, and we've been the dearest friends all our lives. I've known him longer than I have you, Fan. I think he's one of the grandest persons I have ever known. But I've never loved him in the way you think. I'm not in love, with him, and never have been. I've never told you a falsehood, Fan, and you ought to believe me now. As a matter of fact, I'm in love with someone else. (She shows Frances a ring on the third finger of her left hand.)

FRANCES (suddenly interested), Really, Lide, are you engaged? That's wonderful. Who is he?

ELIZA, Arnold Travers. I don't believe you know him. But he and Johnny are good friends. We were engaged once before, and broke up because of a silly misunderstanding. That's when we were in college. Johnny and he and I were there together. We've both been terribly unhappy ever since, but neither would make the first move. It was only when we realized how unhappy Johnny is that we came to our senses. Arnold and Johnny have been together a good deal lately. He wrote me a while ago, asking if he might come to see me. I wired him to come.

FRANCES (weeping), Oh Lide, forgive me. I'm glad for your happiness, but I'm so unhappy.

ELIZA (sitting down by her.) Of course you are, you foolish girl. (Earnestly,) Fan, I'm going to talk to you, whether you like it or not. You see now that you were utterly wrong about me, and you are dead wrong about Johnny.