[Vol24 | June 1937 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Sheepskin on the Bowen]
"They didn't want us to have enough time. It would have broken their hearts and spoiled all their plans if we'd had enough time. That shyster bunch had tricked us greenhorns into biting off more than we could chew, and got us there, sixty families working thirty sections of land, with houses, barns, plowed land and everything started fine, just so they could take it away from us and bleat 'contract broken'. I guess my education had been napping when I let them put that over in the first place.
"But I woke up, you can bet. I got right busy, passed the bar examinations in that state and sat down to get us out of the mess we were in. The company had the nerve to offer
THE SHEEPSKIN ON THE WALL
to let us buy our own farms at ten dollars an acre. You can imagine how mad that made us. It took me over two years to clear our titles and put that bunch of crooks where they belonged. All good solid law work, you might say, but still I wasn't practicing my profession exactly; wasn't using my education the way I'd thought to when I graduated.
"By that time we had a little town there. Other families had moved in and we'd built a church and a schoolhouse. It looked as though the time had come when I could quit farming and put out my shingle. So Martha and I sold our half section, built us a little town house and got busy on plans for the office. Somehow, I wasn't so happy about it as I'd expected to be. I'd been a sort of public prop for so long I scarcely knew how I'd go about the process of simply minding my own business. But as it turned out, I didn't get a chance to try it."
Mark had been listening with his mouth half open, and now he gave a deep sigh and slumped back onto the bench. "I see. You'd been out of touch with your profession so long you couldn't take it up when you did have the chance. That's what I'm afraid of, myself. That's why I won't take just any old thing."
"Not so fast, son. You jump at conclusions too handily," the old man interrupted, out of patience, "I didn't say I was out of touch. I was all ready to go, as you young folks say, but people all over our state had heard of me by that time. They made me senator and sent me to Washington, and I've been so dratted busy these last twenty-five years I haven't even had time to think of my own affairs."
The old man ho-hummed, rearranged the red carnation in his buttonhole, and prepared to get up.
Mark looked at him for a dazzled moment, and then burst out, "Why I know who you are now sir. You're Senator Gray, and you're one of the guests of honor here today. How did you get away from them, to stroll off here by yourself?"
Senator Gray chuckled. "You learn how to give 'em the slip, son, so you can enjoy yourself once in a while. They owe me a little time to myself, don't you think, seeing they never did give me a chance to use my education? Well, it's been a pleasure, chatting with a young fellow like you, just out of college, all eager for a chance to get started and show the world how it's done." He lifted his hat jauntily as Mark sprang to his feet, and strolled down the path humming a little tune in pleasant off-key.
All eager for a chance!
Mark forgot to be sarcastic about that. He was eager for a chance, and perhaps that little store down in the desert was it. You couldn't tell anything about blind alleys, it seemed, if farms and moldy old irrigation projects were roads to glory. A light came into his blue eyes as he gathered up his hat and suit box and strode down the path. He could reach Sue on the 'phone by now. If not, he'd get hold of someone's car and drive out to her place. He'd get there.
Everything was suddenly possible. She must know about him, at once. And it didn't matter how small that store was, or where it was. The thing was, to get started doing something.
