poetry in his teachings, and humor, and pathos. There is much of artistry, too, for he paints pictures with words, using illustrative stories with marked effect. Whether in the pulpit, in the homes of the saints, in his office, or while walking down the street, he is always a master teacher. When he sits in council with his brethren, President McKay is an inspired adviser. His long experience in the Church provides an invaluable background. His devotion to the Lord merits the inspiration of the Spirit. He is wise and just, considerate and merciful. In him the Golden Rule is. A working principle. One side of a question is not enough. All phases must be known to permit wise and fair consideration. He is fearless in defense of right. To the repentant sinner Page 802 OTIS: PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY he is kind and forgiving, but there is no compromise with sin itself. As an executive in the highest ranking group in the Church, he does his work in a pattern of efficiency. Full days and hours mean nothing to him. From his boyhood he has worked hard and long. He likes it. This was a by-product of his farm life at Huntsville, Utah. Then, too, he is a man of ex ceptional vision. Forward looking always, he plans for the future. His grasp of the mission of the Church PRESIDENT DAVID O. MCKAY is all-inclusive. He gives it detailed attention. His interest reaches into every activity of the Church. Its progress means growth for the kingdom of God on earth, to which he gives undivided allegiance. His consideration for President George Albert Smith, whose counselor he is, and for President ] Reuben Clark, Jr., his associate in the counselorship, is remarkable, and demonstrates true greatness in the man. He contributes continuously to the spirit of unity which characterizes the First Presidency. His attitude toward the Twelve is like that of Peter or Paul of old. The modern Twelve are grateful for him. As a husband and father, he has surrounded himself with a true Latter-day Saint family. If every husband showed his wife the kindness and consideration extended by President McKay to his life's com- 803 panion, there would be no need for sorrow in any wife's heart. If every father provided for his children the high type of companionship and example given by President McKay to his family, the world would not fear for the rising generation. Such is the man who became President of the Council of the Twelve Apostles at the last general conference of the Church. President McKay came into this position because of his great worthiness and through his rank as the senior apostle in the Church, following President George Albert Smith. His appointment meets with the universal satisfaction of the authorities and membership of the Church. All welcome it with gratitude. Everywhere his people revere him for, like his file leader President Smith, he too, is an "apostle of love." ~—_o