She Spiritual Power of Music Florence Jepperson Madsen one group in the Church: "Your job is to interpret spirituality in terms of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ." 'This statement may well be applied to all organizations of our Church, including our own Relief Society, for there is a crying need for spirituality in the world today. _ The pages of history reveal that hk Mark Petersen said to where music has been allowed to' function in its purity, spirituality has followed. History also shows that in many instances where it has seemed necessary to increase spirituality among the people, music has been employed.. ~ In the Book of Mormon we read: "Men are that they might have joy." Joy is one of the highest spiritual experiences known to man; and music is fundamentally an expression of joy. Note these words spoken by the Lord himself, when he challenged Job: Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth.... When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? And again these words from the Doctrine and Covenants: And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy (D. & C. 45:71). In a revelation given through the. Prophet Joseph Smith to Emma Smith, the Lord directed her as follows: And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (D. & C. 25:11-12). Since prayer is one of the greatest of all spiritual powers, and since the song of the righteous is a prayer, we must conclude that music is a spiritual force and, therefore, has a definite place in the home, the Church, and the community. Music generates courage, unity, and strength. 'This was experienced by our pioneers in their long trek across the plains. The hymn "Come, Come, Ye Saints" was especially written to give them needed cheer, help, and support to continue their journey westward. The songs and hymns sung by our great Tabernacle choir and the selections played on our famous Tabernacle organ in the regular Sunday morning broadcasts, enter homes throughout the Nation as faithful missionaries, and leave the gospel message of truth and spiritual uplift. Spirituality and culture are also taken into the homes by the sisters who participate in the Singing RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Mothers choruses. The joy and inspiration derived from singing together is reflected in the home and the community as a refining influence and becomes an invaluable and far-reaching power for good. The other fine musical organizations within the Church and those throughout the world are also making their contribution to the spiritu- 'al well-being of humanity. In a letter written by the apostle Paul to the Colossians we read: Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord (Colossians 3:16). In the singing of congregational hymns we are afforded the oppor- 831 tunity for self-expression, a means whereby we may affirm our religious convictions. As long as we can appreciate beautiful flowers and radiant sunsets, the laughter of children, and inspiring music, we may know that spirituality is still alive within us. These lines are from an unknown author: Servant and master am I: Servant of those dead, and Master of those living. Through my spirit immortals speak the message that makes The world weep, and laugh, and wonder, and worship. For I am the instrument of God. I am music. May we become more and more aware of the spiritual power of music, I pray. "