[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | October | Issue: 6 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society Conference minutes
will be concluded in the next number of the
paper, and the story ‘‘IN Rural England’’
continued. We have much matter laid
over, the minutes of several Conferences in
different places, organizations and re-
organizations of branches of the Relief
Society and meetings in different localities,
all these will be given as soon as con-
venient.
	OUR readers will be delighted to know
that Utah has taken three medals for her
silk exhibit, and it is ardently hoped by the
patrons of home industries here that this
success will give an impetus to sericulture,
and that another season will show some
good results in this direction in all parts of
the country where there are mulberry
orchards, and that the people will not be
slow in planting out mulberry trees, and
trying to make this industry remunerative.
	THE Chicago tragedy resulting in the
death of Mayor Harrison has cast a gloom
not only over the closing of the Fair, but
the whole city; all anticipated festivities are
postponed temporarily if not permanently.
After the wonderful brilliant pageantries of
the world that have been enjoyed by the
people during the Exposition, that all
should close with a pageantry of sorrow and
woe seems almost unaccountable, but such
things prove how uncertain are all the
calculations made by men; that there is a
spirit of destruction abroad in the world
seems a foregone conclusion.
	Zious Home Monthly edited by Henry
W. Naisbitt after some months delay, makes
its appearance again in a new dress with
very creditable outside cover, illustrative of
its aims and contents No. 1 volume 2 was
issued October 1, 1893, and contains much
excellent reading matter suited to the times
and circumstances. The special article of
the issue is “Woman’s Education in a New
Light,” from the pen of one of the ablest
writers and educators of his time Horace

[Column 2]
Mann. A number of fine poems help to
make the magazine more desirable, and cer-
tainly home literature should be sustained,
as well as home industries and other home
manufactures. Success to the enterprise.
	OUR readers will be pleased to know that
one of our most esteemed poets and faith-
ful contributors Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron
has had an addition to her family: a
beautiful little grand-daughter, born to her
daughter Zina E. wife of Sylvester Walker
of South Bountiful, Davis Co. on October
7, 1893, the first-grandchild, and of course
there is great rejoicing, in the family, and
the EXPONENT extends most sincere con-
gratulations to the parents,  and grand-
parents of the little one, who is we believe
to be named Caroline in honor of the moth-
er’s sister and it was also the name of the
great-grandmother Caroline Jackson of St.
George, who was so well known among our
people for her good works and labors of
love. 
	WEDNESDAY Oct. 4th, there was a very
interesting Art Exhibit at the studio of Miss
Kate Wells in the McCornick Building in
this City, by our home artists, Messrs
Clawson, Harwood, Culmer and Lenzi, also
Mesdames Harwood, Carson, Sloan, Camp-
bell and Miss Hartwell. The original
painting of the picture by J. W. Clawson
exhibited at the World’s Fair, “Santa
Maria della Salute,” Venice, was among
the collection at Miss Wells studio, the
picture is very fine and the people would be
well repaid in visiting the studio on such
rare occasions. Miss Wells expects to
have another art exhibit on Dec. 1st, at
which time she will be glad to see all lovers
of art come and view the collection, which
will be enjoyable and educational so far,
even if one cannot afford to buy. Other
artists are expected to be represented at that
time. Miss Wells is very painstaking in
her own line of work, coloring photos, and
takes delight in explaining the pictures ex-
hibited to visitors.


