[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | October | Issue: 6 | Title: THE CHILDREN. | Author: Unknown]

THE CHILDREN.
	WE can never give children too many
legitimate pleasures. Childhood should be
made as sunny and happy as unlimited love
and tenderness and wise indulgence can
make it. The shadows fall soon enough
in the most fortunate lives. Yet we can-
not, with all our endeavors, make the hard
paths easy for the little feet we long to save.
The children must learn to fight their be-
setting sins, each for himself, if they are to
be strong men and women in the days to
come.
	Is there no reward that we can safely
offer to cheer them in the contest beside the
abstract satisfaction that comes from a
sense of duty done? There is one very
potent one. In a household where love
rules, and there is perfect confidence be-
tween parents and children, it is stronger
and more compelling than any that can be
devised. This is the warm approbation
and loving approval of those in authority
freely bestowed when it is deserved. We
have all felt our hearts thrill at a word of
praise from those we love. No effort has
seemed too great to win again the smile of
pleasure, or the expression of satisfaction
that gave such deep delight, weariness
we count as naught, trouble we do not
recognize as such while we are striving to
call it forth. A few syllables of apprecia-
tion and gratitude, one look of love, repay
us a thousandfold for all that we have done.
If we fail, if there is no recognition of our
efforts, no response to our mute appeal, if
we are met with silent indifference, or per-
haps even impatient criticism of something
we have left undone in our haste to do all,
we are apt to feel for the moment that life
is not very well worth living. Worse than
this it requires a greater effort than most of
us are capable of to rise above our crushing
disappointment, and take up our daily
burdens in that spirit of patience we ought
to bring to them. Our hearts harden as
the conviction forces itself upon us that
those we love do not care for anything we
can do to please them, or do not think that
we can do sufficently well to merit their
commendation. Few of us realize what a
mighty spur to well doing is contained in
words of loving praise, or how we sin
affainst those nearest to us in with-holding
them when they are deserved.—SELECTED.


