Sketch Of My Life' ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH I WAS born in Becket, Berkshire Co., Mass. Jan. 21, 1804. My parents were of English descent?their ancestors were among the earliest settlers of New England. My father, Oliver Snow, was a native of Massachusetts?my mother, Rosetta L. Pettibone, of Connecticut.
In my early childhood, my parents moved to that section of the State of Ohio bordering on Lake Erie on the North, and the State of Pennsylvania on the East, known as the "Connecticut Western Reserve," where they purchased land, and settled in Mantua, Portage County.
I am the second of seven children?four daughters and three sons?all of whom were strictly disciplined to habits of temperance, honesty, and industry, and our parents extended to us the best educational facilities attainable at that time, without preference to either sex.
Although a farmer by occupation, my father performed much public business?officiating in several responsible positions, and, as I was ten years the senior of my eldest brother, so soon as I was competent, he employed me as Secretary in his Office. This experience has proved of great benefit to myself and to
The Relief Society General Board is pleased to be the first to publish "Sketch of My Life," an autobiography of Eliza R. Snow, prepared upon request of Mr. Hubert Howe Bancroft, American publisher and historian. This autobiography was completed in 1885. The original manuscript, written in the beautiful and legible handwriting of Eliza R. Snow, is now in the Bancroft Library, University of California, Berkeley, California. This valuable historical material is made available to Relief Society through courtesy of the Bancroft Library and LeRoi C. Snow, nephew of Eliza R. Snow. Mr. Snow first heard of this life sketch in the fall of 1943. Through his efforts, photostatic copies of the forty-nine large folio pages were obtained, together with publishing privileges. In submitting the manuscript to Relief Society, Mr. Snow included the following statement:
"During the early 80's, Mr. Hubert Howe Bancroft, the historian, spent considerable time in Salt Lake City gathering material for his great library. While here, he became well acquainted with my aunt, Eliza R. Snow, who assisted him in his work. Before leaving Utah, Mr. Bancroft asked Aunt Eliza to write a biographical sketch of her life to add to his collection. This she did, finishing it in 1885. I believe it is her only autobiographical sketch. Some of the most important experiences in her life are related exclusively in this sketch.
"Because of Aunt Eliza's close association with the Relief Society of the Church, I think it very fitting that this important manuscript be published in TheI learned of its existence only very recently and am loaning a photostatic copy to the Relief Society General Board for its publication."
The centennial of Eliza R. Snow, first secretary and second general president of Relief Society, and one of the most illustrious of our early-day women leaders, is always of interest to Latter-day Saint women, but when told in her own gifted writing style it becomes fascinating. The comments and observations which accompany the recital of events by Sister Snow add charm and value to her story.
"Sketch of My Life" will be published, with illustrations, in six installments, beginning with this issue of the Magazine and concluding in the August issue.
132 others, at different periods of my variegated life. Whether my mother anticipated or originated the wise policy of Queen Victoria, concerning the training of girls, does not matter? at all events, my mother considered a practical knowledge of housekeeping the best, and most efficient foundation on which to build a magnificent structure of womanly accomplishments?that useful knowledge was the most reliable basis of independence. Hence her daughters were eatly trained to the kitchen and housekeeping in general; then to various kinds of needlework etc. Two years in succession, I drew the prize awarded by the Committee on Manufactures, at the Portage County Fair, for the best manufactured Leghorn. My parents carefully imprest on the minds of their children, that useful labor is honorable?idleness and waste of time disgraceful and sinful; and, with us, book-studies and schooling were ever present? intermingling with every other industry, not omitting music and singing: Thus we never knew what it was to be idle. I mention these items as constituting a key to my subsequent life, showing that the impressions made in childhood and youth give indelible stamp to character. My apparently inherent fondness for reading was encouraged by my parents. I was partial to poetical works, and when very young frequently made attempts at imitation of the different styles of favorite authors. In school I often bothered my teachers by writing my dissertations in rhyme, thereby forcing from them acknowledgements of in ability to correct my articles, through lack of poetical talent; and yet, my teachers were uniformly too indulgent to protest against my rhyming practice. On one occasion, my versatility occasioned me intense mortification. I was a small girl in a "Grammatical Institution" of young gentlemen and ladies, taught by a Presbyterian clergyman. Up to this time, the Professor had uniformly read before the school, the compositions written by students; but it so happened that a change was to commence that very day, and each student must read his and her own production. Unfortunately for me, without surmising any change, I had indulged my mirthfulness in a humorous poetical article, written in a peculiar measure, which I copied from a wat-song in one of the periodicals of the day?the extreme oddity of the measure rendered the article so exceeding amusing, I was well aware that it would create laughter among the students, and | should break down if I attempted to read it. I could have listened composedly had the Prof. Read as I anticipated; but for me to read it before that audience! How could I? I tearfully told the Prof. I could not. But an equitable law must not be sacrificed to my timidity, and the Prof. Compassionately helped me out of the dilemma by proposing to excuse me for the present, provided I would come the next morning, before the students assembled, and read it to him; to which I responded with all promptitude. When quite young, I commenced writing for publication in various journals, which I continued for several SKETCH OF MY LIFE years, over assumed signatures ?wishing to be useful as a writer, and unknown as an author. During the ever memorable contest between Greece and Turkey, I watched with deep interest, the events of the war, and after the terrible destruction, by the Turks, of Missolonghi, I wrote an article entitled "The Fall of Missolonghi." Soon after its publication, the deaths of Adams and Jefferson, almost simultaneously occurred, on the Fourth of July [1826] just at the time when, in honor of the glorious day, the nation was chanting songs of Liberty. I was requested, through the Press, to write their requiem, to which I responded, and, to my regret found myself ushered into conspicuity, and not long after, eight volumes of "Godey's Lady's Book" were awarded me for a first-prize poem published in one of the journals. That "men are born poets" is a common adage?I was born a patriot?at least, a warm feeling of patriotism inspired my thoughts as evinced in many of the early productions of my pen. I can even now recollect how, with beating pulse and with fond emotion I listened when but a small child, to narratives of the Revolution. My grandfather on my mother's side, when fighting for the freedom of his country, was taken prisoner, and confined in a dreary cell, and so scantily fed, that when a fellow prisoner, incarcerated with him, died from exhaustion, he reported him sick, in order to obtain the usual amount furnished for both?keeping him wrapped in his (1) Some of Eliza R. Snow's nom-de-plumes: Tullia, A Mormon Girl. 133 blanket as: long as he dared to remain with a dead body. This with many other incidents of Revolutionary sufferings recounted by my grandparents, so deeply impressed my mind, that, as I grew up to womanhood, I fondly cherished a pride for the Flag which so proudly waved o'er the graves of my brave and valiant ancestors. My parents were Baptists in their religious profession?free from bigotry and intolerance, their hospitality was proverbial, and their house a welcome resort for the honorable of all denominations. As a natural result, my acquaintance became extensive. I was early taught to respect the Bible, and in Sabbath Schools recited much of the New Testament ?at times reciting seven of the long chapters in the Gospels, at a lesson. When studying those interesting narratives, my mind, many times, was filled with reflections of the deepest type, and my heart yearned for the gifts and manifestations of which those ancient Apostles testified. Sometimes I wished I had lived when Jesus Christ was on the earth, that I might have witnessed the power of God manifested through the Gospel; or that I could see, and listen to a true Prophet of God, through whom He communicated His will to the children of men. But, alas! That day and those blessings had