Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, Mar. 1, and Mar. 35, 1884. "The RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL Nations" Extract of a Letter: (To Mrs. Rachel R. Grant] City of Mexico, Oct. 13th 1883 I have seen something of the world since leaving home, its vanity, hypocrisy and infidelity, and when I compare the condition of the Saints with that of the people with whom { come in contact every day,! Cannot feel thankful enough that the Lord led my parents to cast their lot with that people despised of the world, and that I have had strength thus far to follow in their wake. ] would rather be the most humble Latter-day Saint with the blessings of the Priesthood, and the hope which the Gospel gives, than all the luxuries of life that wealth and power cat give without those blessings.*** I suppose cousin Heber is in Arizona, love to his family and yourself. * * Editorial: Washington Convention, N. WS. A.?The National Republican of Washington City has published full particulars of the Woman's Convention held in Lincoln Hall, March 4, 5, and 6. Miss Susan B. Anthony presided in the absence of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Speeches were made and papers read by the most noted and active suffragists from the different states. Letters were also read from various parts of this country and Europe, and a general discussion of the question of political equality was the sentiment of the entire convention..
* * * Relief Societies Abroad: Swiss and German Mission]?Berne, Switzerland Bo As yet there are no Societies organized in Germany, but they will, Tam told, be speedily introduced into the branches there as well as in many parts of Germany where it has heretofore been neglected. - - - The first Relief Society organized and this mission was that of Berne. It was organized by Elder P. F. Goss, on the 3oth of June, OR.. The last evening of the Conference Dec. 24th; [1883] the sisters held their meeting? Sister Steimer of the Berne Society presided, and did so with coolness and ease. Good and interesting testimonies were borne, and words. Of encouragement offered by the sisters in three different Languages?the English, French and German. Annie W. Cannon Ornamental Work: We have seen some very handsome specimens of natural flowers from the funeral of the late Presiding Bishop E. Hunter, preserved for the family by Mrs. EF. D. Roundy, 16th Ward. Flowers preserved by her retain their perfectly natural appearance and color..* Relief Society Report, Ogden: The ladies of the Relief Society of Weber County held their conference in the Ogden Tabernacle, Dec. 7th, 1883.--- Sister Zina D. H. Young.. - then spoke to us upon a variety of subjects - - - - Counselors Hattie C. Brown and Sarah Herrick and Apostle F. D. Richards also addressed the congregation. - ?? Monta Harris. A Please Take Notice: Secretaries in the foreign branches, on the Islands and in the States, should forward their statistical and financial reports to the Secretary of Relief Societies, instea sof to the Editor of EXPONENT. It is necessary that the reports be received here two weeks prior to each general conference. Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Secretary Central Board Page 166