	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened
in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
March 23rd, 1894. President M. I. Horne
presiding. On the stand with President
Horne was her Counselor E. S. Taylor,
and Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W.
Smith and E. B. Wells of the Territorial
Board. Meeting opened with singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” etc. Prayer was
offered by Sister S. B. Gibson. Singing
“Glorious things are sung of Zion” etc.
Roll called and responded to as follows:
twenty-six branches were represented by
Presidents, eleven by Counselors, one by a
teacher, one by a Secretary making in all
thirty-nine branches, leaving nine without
representation. Sisters Julia C. Howe and
Lydia D. Alder were then voted in and
unanimously sustained as aids to the Stake
Presidency of the Relief Society and Ella
W. Hyde as Asst. Sec.
	President Horne said she would like
the sisters to hand in their returns for the
Temple pictures as it was time for the
business to be settled up, said she wished
to explain the object of the organization of
the Relief Society. It was not to help any
that could help themselves, or encourage 
pauperism. Only the needy and afflicted
should be assisted. Thought charity was

[Column 2]
frequently given to those who did not need
it, found in her own experience many un-
worthy poor, Presidents should instruct the
teachers in regard to these things; referred
to the liberality of the people in donating
during the winter and made other remarks;
in regard to conducting the affairs of the
Relief Society we should be practical as
well as spiritual and should not lose sight
of the object of the first organization of
the semi-monthly meetings which was re-
trenchment. Spoke further on this subject,
and of the necessity of obeying counsel,
and the performance of every duty.
	Counselor E. S. Taylor pointed out the
necessity of officers and members of the
Relief Society being united and working
hand in hand with the Bishops. Spoke of
the evils of fault finding, those who did so
were the ones who never did anything to as-
sist the cause. Said some of the needy
were too proud to ask for help, teachers
should have the spirit of discernment to
seek them out and minister to their wants.
Urged all to be generous in giving to the
poor and it should be returned to them
seven fold. Gave other excellent
instructions.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said we had learned
many useful lessons in these meetings.
Urged the importance of having uniformity
in our work. Spoke at some length in re-
gard to the funds in the treasury getting
low. The fifty cents due from each society
had not been handed in. Wished to remind
the sisters of this fact that they might act
accordingly.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the undivided interest and unity in the
hearts of the sisters, and of the necessity
of being practical. We should inform our
selves in regard to the best time to set out
mulberry trees, and dwelt on the impor-
tance of advancing the silk industry and
awakening an interest in the same, spoke
of the good it would do in employing
children, and helping the poor.
	President Horne made some closing re-
marks continuing the subject of wheat.
The sisters should have bins made and
store it up, the time was not far distant
when it would be needed. Conference ad-
jorned ’till 2 p. m. Singing “Lord dismiss
us, with Thy blessing,” etc. Benediction
Elizabeth Pixton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—On the stand
with President Horne was her Counselor E.
S. Taylor, President Zina D. H. Young
and her counselors Bathsheba W. Smith
and President Angus M. Cannon. Meet-
ing opened by singing, “O say what is
truth,” etc. Prayer by President Angus
M. Cannon. Singing “Our God we raise
to Thee,” etc.
	President Horne in her opening remarks
exhorted the sisters to cease dealing with
outsiders, and sustain and build each other
up. It was unavoidable that our children
should go to school to those not of us, but
mothers should instil into their minds the
principles of the gospel that they may not
be led astray by the influences that surround
them. Spoke of Christian Science and
other evils that exist. Also exhorted those
present to patronize our home institutions.
The Woman’s Store should receive more
patronage in order to make it a success.
Spoke of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
other home journals, and of the importance
of sustaining these industries.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson felt to endorse all
that had been said we should live in
humility and seek to know the mind and

[Column 3]
will of the Lord. Spoke upon the subject
of home manufacture, and of the impor-
tance of teaching our children to be in-
dustrious, and watching over their interests.
	Sister Elizabeth Pixton thought the in-
structions that had been given were timely.
Continued the subject of home manufacture.
Said we should be thankful for the bless-
ings we enjoy and not complain of hard
times, made other interesting remarks.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt blessed in
istening to what had been said. Urged
the necessity of avoiding extravagance,
and educating our children in habits of
economy and industry. Also spoke upon
the subject of home manufacture.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder expressed her
pleasure in listening to the instruction that
had been given and spoke upon the topics
that had been touched upon by the previous
speakers, said we should not let new
comers get the start of us in the move that
was being made. Spoke further on the-
subject of home industry.
	President Angus M. Cannon addressed
the meeting for a short time. Said he
endorsed all that he had heard. The in-
structions that had been imparted had a
tendency to do good. Spoke at some
length on the duties of wives and mothers,
and encouraged the sisters to go forward in
their good work.
	President Zina D. H. Young made a few
remarks dwelling principally on the im-
portance of fostering industries and em-
ploying our time. Referred again to the
planting of mulberry trees and the making
of our own silk. Encouraged the idea of
knitting and of gathering mustard, and
many other things in which we could use
our lives and energies to the building up of
Zion.
	President M. I. Horne hoped we would
treasure up the good instructions we had
received and be benefited by them, made
other closing remarks. Conference was ad-
journed for thee months. Singing “The
time is far spent,” etc. Benediction by M.
W. Wilcox.
			ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Sec.
		
