ADDRESS BY M. HUGHES CANNON M. D.

	Madame Chairman, Gentlemen and
Ladies.
	An old powerful and influential oppo-
nent to Woman's Suffrage relates the fol-
lowing little story with the attempt to
discourage women favorable to the cause of
suffrage—
	"Once on a time in Ormudz there was
a Peri with tiny feet and glittering wings,
who was passionately fond of diamonds,
her crown, drapery and shoes were solid
with the purest gems. She herself ap-
peared at a little distance, like a wee dot of
a flying diamond. Yet there was one
precious jewel which she discovered one
day by the river, and which she coveted
more than all she had before collected. It
was very heavy and bright as the sun; too
heavy for her atomic head and far too bril-
liant to be becoming to her. The name of
the rare jewel was Somethingmore. Her
friends urged her to avoid the display, and
warned her against her vain desire to be-
come conspicuous. But she was not con-
tent. She thought that she only needed
this precious Somethingmore in her crown
to make her supremely happy. So she
commanded the gem to be set in her crown,
and started in a blaze of light to visit her
humbler neighbors. But alas! the new
jewel was so bright, that its fiery rays
melted her diamond robes, blistered her
feet and scorched her wings—soon her
crown itself was dissolved by the heat, and
she herself fell dead from suffocation.
When her sisters found her, Something-
more had scorched the grass about her;
and to this day the people of Ormudz
show the barren, ashy hillside, burned and
crisped so long ago by the fatal Something-
more."
	The moral to be drawn from the little
story of the noted gentleman is that wo-
men now have all the legal rights they re-
quire—deprived only of the ballot, which
is the fatal Somethingmore and might result as
disastrously to the women possessing it, as
did the diamond to the Peri.
	This story might do to tell the women of
the east or west who have never had the


[Column 1]
franchise, but not for the women of Utah,
who exercised this privilege for seventeen
years, without the scorching of a single
wing.
	“To make men and women happier or
purer, or more intellectual is the aim of
every laudable enterprise, political or
social, and without such a purpose, or with-
out the adaptation of means to the
that end, every accomplishment of
undertaking should fail.
	There must be a combination of motive and
work, a blending of intellect and emotion,
a strong desire with a firm hand, a right-
eous purpose with competent skill, to ac-
complish any permanent good or to carry to
success any needed reform.”
	That reform and purification in the exer-
cise of the franchise, is needed at the
present day is undoubted. Women with
the right to vote would be a strong phalanx
in assisting to bring about this needed re-
form. Home and kindred are too dear for
them to place in office men whose honor
integrity, and efficiency to control are
doubted. “There are yet many realms of
silence to be made vocal, many scientific
truths to be discovered, many arts to be
perfected, which require the hands and
minds of women—she must begin as other
noble women and nearly all great men have
begun, and give herself soul and body to
the acquisition of wisdom and skill, and
her very opposition and difficulties will be
gain. There is natural ability enough and
the persevering will only is needed.” Wo-
man must throw off her bondage to fashion
her submission to folly, says a well known
writer. She must defeat the enticements of
pleasure, the flatteries and censures of
others; all prejudices all notions of
propriety bend to genius and culture. A
well disciplined mind, and a generous heart
will look the Lion opinion in the Eye, and
move on, he will quail before her and will
assail her no more. Let a woman endowed
with natural genius, and assisted by years
of persistent culture appear in public, in
classical hygienic and elegant apparel, how
soon will she influence the fashions of those
who recognize her value; her dress, her
books, her manner, her, language, all
would have disciples and earnest followers.”
	The forgoing remarks are addressed to
women who could crystalize into realism,
“Queen of the household” who have suf-
ficient revenue at their command to reign
as veritable Queens over that basic and
most important realm of all government,
the home, who would have time and health
to become the best of all object lesson in-
structors of the plastic minds of that realm
—the children—as well as time for their
knowledge and influence to extend into the
halls where laws are framed for the con-
struction and management of Orphan
Asylums, Children’s Homes and Hospitals—
prison matron work and scores of other
avenues which today sadly need the ad-
mixed psychology of woman.
	Show me a nation where the machinery
of every household is conducted by an intel-
ligent woman, who is its superintendent—
Queen if you please—and not its drudge,—
assisted by the advice and counsel of the
masculine element, and I will show you a
nation that has well nigh reached the
Zenith of its glory; for where the basic
element or foundation of a government is
healthful and sound, there is good pros-
pect of the superstructure nearing perfec-
tion.

[Column 2]
	One of the principal reasons why women
should vote—is that all men and women
are created free and equal. No privileged
class either of sex wealth or descent should
be allowed to arise or exist. All persons
should have the legal right to be the equal
of every other.
	“The difference in the natures of men
and women, is not a difference in value, but
the kind of merit. He has qualities which
she has not; she possesses traits and genius,
he does not, they differ from each other, and
yet in their worth to the world, and to God,
they are equal with each other.” The
genius of each should blend in the basic
element of government the home, as well
as in the plans and machinery of its super-
structure.
	"In these modern times the standards of
value have been readjusted, and whereas
once physical strength and reckless courage
were held in the highest and almost ex-
clusive esteem of mankind—now the gems
of wisdom, culture, purity, beauty, love
and skill have a value which may out-
weigh and purchase that brute force once
so priceless. Once to be born a female was
to become a plaything or a slave; today in
the best most cultivated, and most power-
ful circles woman is the peer of the noblest
man.”
	If women are granted the privilege to
vote, it is not going by any means to sweep
away all existing wrong in the world, but
it will be one more step toward equality
before the law. “There will still be some
drunken, brutal husbands, there will still be
parsimonious and contemptable heads of
families, there will be poverty, aching heads
and hearts; there will be fraud and wrong,
but the skirts of the law will be clean on
this one point and not compelled to bear
the blame.”
	To secure just laws and then execution
will require the exercise of much common
sense and at this point woman’s foresight
and quick judgment would be an aid in the
construction of good government.
	“If women orators desire to speak to the
masses, they must show they are ready to
sacrifice themselves to the cause, sufficiently
to sink every personal ambition or desire
for fame, and study the cause and those in-
fluences, which will assist in its advance-
ment.” And may the day be hastened
when women will know all their rights,
and knowing dare maintain.
	In the enrollment of members in the suf-
frage cause Utah stands second in the
United States. New York State taking the
lead, and while we rank among the first in
numbers, we bring up the rear in the mat-
ter of enthusiasm and it is for the purpose
of arousing more interest and energy in the
cause that this and similar meetings have
been inaugurated;—so in order to secure the
necessary enthusiasm we will

	“Ring the bells, and fire the guns
	And fling our starry banners out,
	Call freedom! ’Till our little ones
	Give back the ringing shout."

	Mrs. Bessie Dean Allison, who came down
from Ogden specially to be present, then
sung, in her usual finished style, “The
Journey is Long,” which was highiy ap-
preciated, and called forth generous ap-
plause.
	The President apologized for the absence
of Mrs. Emily S. Richards on account of
illness.
	Dr. Hasbrouck next briefly addressed the
meeting. He realized the prejudice that

[Column 3]
existed upon the question of woman suf-
frage, and expressed the opinion that the
only way to overcome this prejudice was to
talk upon the subject intelligently whenever
occasion offered. He was heartily in favor
of the object of the meeting, and hoped
when Utah was admitted into the Union
the women would be allowed to exercise
the right of voting.
	Mr. George D. Pyper next sang a
beautiful solo, “Songs of Araby” his
high notes were particularly delightful; and
altogether the music was an excellent
feature.
	MRS. LUCY A. CLARK, president of the
Woman’s Suffrage Association of Davis
County, was the next speaker, and, after a
few introductory remarks, said that, in so
far as woman’s suffrage was concerned,
their sole weapon upon which to convert
the world of mankind was the Declaration
of Independence. To substantiate her as-
sertion she referred to several paragraphs in
that instrument to show that women should
have all the rights and privileges of an
American citizen. She objected to the
word “male” in regard to the qualifications
of voters, as contained in the 14th Article
of the Constitution—and asserted that
that word (“male”) should be stricken out
of the Constitution. She then referred to,
and paid a high compliment upon, the sev-
eral eminent lady leaders in the woman
suffrage cause, among whom were Elizabeth
Cady Stanton &c. Aunt Zina D. Young—
wno stood up in the Congress of the
Representative Woman in Chicago and de-
clared herself a woman suffragist, and, in
her travels east, west, north and south in
Utah, has earned the title of one of the
“mothers in Israel”—and maintained that,
in such an array of talent, no one should
be ashamed even to be a private in the
ranks of the woman Suffragists. The
speaker then called attention to a resolu-
tion passed by the Legislature of Wyoming
in which it was stated that, by the influence
of women holding the franchise, and
exercising voting and official power, for a
quarter of a ceutury, the poor houses had
been depleted, peaceful and orderly
elections had been maintained, and good
government was in the ascendancy through-
out the whole state. The leaders in the
Colorado campaign were also mentioned,
in reference to the woman suffrage
question; and the speaker concluded by
urging all to do their utmost, by trying the
key in the right direction, for the cause in
which they were interested.
	Samuel Richards Esq. was the concluding
speaker. He felt it an honor to be invited
to appear before them on that occasion, and
judging from the large assembly present,
and the intelligence that had been displayed,
he thought the cause of woman suffrage in
Utah was upward and onward. He had
always been in favor of women having the
privilege of the franchise, and of taking
part in the government of local affairs.
Their influence for good was admitted on
every hand, and it was a mystery to him
why people should be afraid of that in-
fluence. He had not appeared publicly to
any extent in regard to this question; but
if ever the opportunity should occur where
his vote would aid the cause, that vote
could be depended upon.
	The President then made a few conclud-
ing remarks, and the meeting adjourned.

	(Reported in shorthand by John Irvine.)


