FANNY M. ALLEN HUNTINGTON.

	FANNY M. ALLEN HUNTINGTON was born Oct.
26th, 1810 at Jefferson County,State of New York
and was the daughter of General Clark Allen and
Martha Thompson, She was a direct descendent
of General Ethan Allen, she joined the church


[Column 1]
in the early days with her husband the late
Dimick B. Huntington, they having endured all
the persecutions of the Saints driven from their
home again and again to seek new ones. She
accompanied her husband in the famous Mormon
Battalion there enduring all the hardships of a
soldier’s life and arriving in the valley of the Great
Salt Lake four days behind the Pioneers, here
having all to endure that human beings could
endure. She was four months without tasting
bread before her youngest daughter was born
living on roots and anything that would sustain
life. She helped pioneer the new settlements
south, being in Provo during the Indian trouble
there, not knowing what moment herself and
family would have to be sacrificed to the wily
and cruel savages; also at Manti in the early days,
from there returned to Salt Lake City in 1851 here
she joined the missionary field with her husband
among the Indians, where it required all the
patience and faith that only a Latterday Saint can
acquire but never doubting the mercies and
goodness of God, and His promises to the faith-
ful; was at the first organization of the Relief
Society by Joseph Smith the Prophet when Emma
Smith was elected president. Sister Huntington
was the mother of eight children all of whom
had preceded her to the other shore except
a son and daughter who remain. She went
with her daughter Sister Julia Mellen out to
Pleasant Green in 1890, where she remained up
the time of her death, which occured Dec. 14 1894,
she passed peacefully away, surrounded by kind
friends, and all that loving hands could do for
her to make her last moments happy.
Sister Zina D. H. Young her sister in law, was
with Sister Huntington much of the time during
her last illness, and heard her fervent and earnest
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel and also
witnessed her patience in suffering the pains of
mortality. To her, death must indeed have been ,
a happy release, and those beautiful words of
Elizabeth Barrett Browning seem singularly ap-
propriate.
	“He giveth His beloved sleep,
		Sleep soft beloved! we sometimes say,
		Who have no time to charm away
	Sad dreams that through the eyelids creep;
		But never doleful dream again.
		Shall break the happy slumbers; when
	He giveth His beloved sleep.

Editor Exponent:
IT is my painful duty to inform you of the
death of our beloved President Harriet Amelia
Lee, after a long and lingering illness she died
January 21st, 1894. Sister Lee was born Nov.
25th 1831, in Rutland Co. State of Vermont. and
was the daughter of Clarissa and Daniel Carter,
her parents becoming members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, at an early date
moved to Kirtland, Ohio, and later to Missouri,
and from there to Nauvoo, Ill. She experienced
all the hardships encountered by the Saints, also
resided for a time on little Mosquito Creek, which 
is near Winter Quarters: at this place, she be-
came acquainted with William H. Lee and was
married on the 11th of March 1849. She was
well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She came to Utah in 1850, living at Cottonwood
until 1855, when the family moved to Bountiful
where they resided until 1873, then moved to
Woodruff, Rich Co. Her vast experience and
willingness to do good together with her natural
abi ity made her a fit leader in the social sphere
in which she moved. She was president of the
Relief Society, counselor to the president of the
Primary and a Sunday school teacher at Wood
ruff up to the time of her death. Her death
was caused by heart failure, the funeral services
were held in the meeting house at Woodruff,
where the largest audience assembled that has
ever met in that house. The remains were
interred in the Bountiful cemetery.
	She leaves a husband, six children, twenty
eight grand-children and one great grand-
child to mourn her loss. 
								COM.

