	MRS. URSULA N. GESTERFIELD, of New
York is the author of the much discussed
novel, “The Woman who Dares.”
	DR. SARAH C. HALL, of Fort Scott Kan.,
has been elected President of the County
Medical Association. She has also received
the appointment of Medical Examiner for
the Degree of Honor.
	IT was eminently appropriate that the
youngest and least experienced member of
the Massachusetts House of Representatives
should make the most elaborate speech
against equal rights for women. Young
Mr. Dallinger, of Cambridge, is just out of
college, and will probably live to grow
wiser.
	MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD has written
a biography of her mother, Mary T. Hill
Willard. She has been assisted in the
work by her kinswoman. Mrs. Minerva
Grace Norton, and Lady Henry Somerset
has written an introduction. The book
will be entitled, “A Great Mother.” It
will be issued by the Woman’s Temperance
Publishing Association of Chicago.
	MRS. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY lately re-
signed her position as corresponding sec-
retary of the National-American Woman
Suffrage Association, and nominated Mrs.
Ellen Battelle Dietrick as her successor.
This nomination was confirmed by a major-
ty of the Business Committee and Mrs.
Avery was made auditor in Mrs. Dietrick’s
place.
	A LETTER has just been received from
Mrs. Elizabeth Andrew and Dr. Kate
Bushnell, on their way to Maulmain, Bur-
ma. The ladies remained in India but a
few days, during which they spoke before
the Methodist Conference by invitation of
Bishop Thoburn, and had an interview
with Pundita Ramabai, whose school for
high-caste Hindu widows at Poona is now
housed in excellent buildings and doing
well. Mrs. Thoburn is president of a
thriving W. C. T. U. in Calcutta, a meet-
ing of which was called during the visit of
the White Ribbon missionary, Mrs. Hauser,
of Lucknow, president of the India W. C.
T. U. She has succeeded in establishing
twenty local auxiliaries, and spreading
through the press and private cor-
respondence much information about the
society.


