LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the fourteenth Ward, Feb. 10th,
1894, President M. I. Horne presiding.
The congregation sang the hymn: “Oh!
happy souls who pray.” Prayer by Sister
Julia Pack, continued by singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Also
minutes of second and fifteenth Ward
Primary Association.
	President Horne said “I am pleased to be
with you today. My heart rejoices in
listening to the minutes of the Primary As-
sociations. I had not the privilege of at-
tending such meetings when young; but
was always a faithful Sunday School at-
tendant. All these meetings are calculated
as blessings for us. The Relief Society
was organized for the blessing and benefit-
ing of the poor. We come to meeting to
gain spiritual blessing. There are many
temptations to lead our youth away. If
they were faithful to their meetings and
other duties, they would have more power
to resist temptation. We are promised if
we will seek first the Kingdom of God; all
things else will be added unto us. We
should be careful at all times not to speak
evil of, or judge our fellow beings. There
is one above who will judge all. Let us
seek him in prayer continually. The
calamities we read of daily are necessary. 
We must fortify ourselves against all evil.
All are trials, still we can see how well
the Lord has blessed his people, in living up
to the spirit of God; think of the wonderful
work the Prophet Joseph accomplished, and
the many trials he endured. I love to
testify of him. There are not many now
living who have met him face to face.
Much more might be said but I want to hear
from my sisters.
	Counselor E. Webb “I know the spirit
of the Lord is with us, how greatly we are
blessed, in being privileged to come here
in peace, and testify of the goodness of
God to us, his children. If we could realize
that it is not for our much speaking, but
for the humility and meekness of our
hearts, I do think we would pray to our
heavenly Father to keep us humble at all
times. We should prepare ourselves for
our work in the Temple, the attendance is
increasing, which proves there is a wak-
ing up in this great work for our dead.”
Made other good remarks.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul—“I am very much
interested in the Primary Association, my
children have nearly all acted as secretaries
in the Primary Association. I know they
have been greatly benefited by their as-
sociation with the Primaries, I know the
Lord hears and answers our prayers. I
have been healed many times. Have re-
ceived many blessings. The Gift of
Tongues was bestowed upon me, many
years ago in Wales. Sisters I feel that
angels are present with us today.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young—“My thoughts
have dwelt on the subjects touched upon by
my sisters this afternoon. These meetings
were established by President Brigham
Young, for the benefit of the daughters of
Zion and for the blessing of the poor.
This Hall was dedicated and set apart for
these and other meetings. President John
Taylor stood here, he was a martyr to the 
cause of truth. He laid his body down
with bullets in it. If we would read in the
Doctrine and CovenantsSec. fifth and sixth,

[Column 2]
it would be a benefit to us. Let us cling
to the spiritual gifts. Let go some of the
temporal. The more humble we live the
more of the Spirit of God we will enjoy;”
gave other good counsel.
	Sister Sarah Phelps exhorted all present,
to be faithful to their duties and not lose the
spirit of the Lord. Closed by speaking in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Paul.
	Many sisters in the congregation bore
testimonies of the goodness of God to them
when tempted and tried, and of having
been healed by his power. All spoke of
the good Spirit present, desired to con-
tinue faithful, and aid in the building up of
the Kingdom of God. 
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson, made some
excellent remarks, advised those present to
put their trust in the Lord. “Stand upon
your feet and testify of his goodness, my
heart is full of love and peace. I love to
meet with the Saints of God. I think it a
good thing to meet often in sociables. We
dont want to be extravagant in our refresh-
ments. We should be plain and simple in
all our ways.” 
	In her closing remarks President Horne
said “I dont wish to dampen the good
Spirit of the meeting; but there is an item
of business I wish to mention. At the last
meeting of the Board of Directors of the
Woman’s Coop, it was decided to give re-
ports only once a year. We are doing very
well considering the dull times. I know
the Lord has blessed our efforts. We have
not had the support we should have had.
Some seem to think it too small an affair,
will give their patronage to other stores.
They think our stock is too small. We
could carry a much larger stock if we had
the support we should have. I hope my
sisters will consider these things. Be awake
to their duties and sustain all Home In-
dustries. Sister Phelps made a request
that a special prayer be offered for our
missionaries abroad.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang
the Doxology. Beneediction Sister Lydia
D.Alder.
