WOMAN SUFFRAGE?

	To vote or not to vote! That is the
the Question. Shall we drift with the
sluggish tide of Custom, and in our Or-
ganic Act rivet the fetters of perpetual
minority upon the mothers of so hardy a
race of men as Utah can boast?
	Shall we mar our onward progress as a
Commonwealth and clog the footsteps of
half our citizens by locking in the faces of
our daughters the doors of honest public
responsibility, and then, as from time im-
memorial, endeavor to shoulder upon them
the blame for the misdeeds of our sons?
Shall we swear at the nuptial altar to love
and cherish, to endow with all our worldly
goods the woman who forsakes father and
mother for her love's sake, and then pro-
ceed to take by force of law her time, her
strength, her conscience, her money, in
fact, her whole being, body and soul, into
our individual service, leaving her not
even her identity to call her own?
	Shall we boast of our free condition if
our mothers are in bondage?
	Shall our sons be untainted with servi-
tude and degradation if their mothers be
not free, any better than they could be all
white if we gave them African mothers?
Could our children be as great economists,
as far-sighted statesmen, as wise jurists,
from such sources as if sprung from
Cornelia or Portia?
	Who dares to say women are not
capable of self-government, should never
dare place a child of his own in the care
of a woman, because it is a self-evident
truth that he or she who cannot control
self is not fit to have the control of another;
particularly an unformed, undeveloped
soul.
	Shall women themselves, under the veil
of their traditional modesty, stand silently
by in a crisis like the present, and let this
great wrong be done to them and their
children, to their country and civilization?
	Mark this, sister women! To do so
would make us accessories before the fact
to nothing less than a great crime. You who
walked side by side with your pioneer
husbands out of civilization into desola-
tion, you who bore more than an even
share of hardship and danger in subdueing
this stubborn, unfriendly clime, you who

[Column 2]
toiled, hoped, prayed but wept not, can
never be persuaded, that you and your
daughters are not equally concerned in all
that pertains to this hard-won home, equal
heirs to the grand estate.
	All men know it is not in us to boast;
but we do not deny that our record of the
past gives us room to boast of every
requisite to honest, useful citizenship; and
we look with confidence to our husbands
and fathers, to see that our claims be not
ignored, and our rights not abridged, when
the crown of Statehood shall rest upon the
brow of our beloved Utah.
