	TO THE PIONEERS.

	I DO feel to congratulate you all and all
the Pioneers who are permitted to meet on
this occasion at the Bee Hive house: and 
regret that I cannot be one of the number.
	I feel that I am also a Pioneer, having
arrived in this valley Sep. 12th 1847.
This is the date our Captain George B.
Wallace gave of the time of our arrival
here. Is not this a pretty quick time for
ox-teams to follow the mule teams which
started from Winter Quarters the 1st, of
April 1847; our company a month later the
1st of May. We arrived at the valley in
one month and nineteen days later than the
first company did.
	(Would like to tell you much more if I
only felt able to write it.)
 I must say, however, that it is indeed
wonderful to reflect upon the past forty six
years of our lives, how often our afflictions
have been sanctified to our good: and many
if not all have been a blessing in disguise
even as that of the Battalion being called to
go to Mexico.
	But we have had joys as well as sorrows.
Was it not indeed a joyful sight to see our
President and company meet us at Pacific
Springs the last of August, when we were
journeying hither. They were on their re-
turn to gather up the rest of the families at
Winter Quarters. They stopped with us that
day, and one more day then each company
went on their opposite way rejoicing.
	Again we rejoiced to see Great Salt Lake
Valley, my heart it seemed jumped in my
mouth and tears in my eyes, saying ‘‘here
is our resting place, thank our Father.”
We saw it in the distance from the top of a
high mountain two days before we reached
the fort. Joy again, when we got into
the Fort built of logs, doors inside and only
a port hole on the outside to watch the
Indians from. Then a joyful meeting with
Sister Ellen S. Kimball and Sister Clara
Young and her mother Sister Harriet
Young, who came with the first company.
	Only think, we also found quite a
few of the Battalion who had just re-

[Column 2]
turned from Mexico. And did not we have
joyful meetings and interesting times that
winter; and this is not all, the weather so
much finer and much warmer than any
Winter I ever saw in the State of New
York.
	It is with feelings of gratitude that I re-
flect upon the past but I cannot tell it all.
This party has awakened feelings more
than I can express; hoping this may be
acceptable from your aged friend,
	MARY ELLEN KIMBALL. 
March 27th, 1894.

