	VILATE YOUNG, Sec. 

	SYNOPSIS of minutes of theSemi-month-
ly Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Saturday Feb 24th, 1894. Counselor
E. J. Stevenson presiding, opened by sing-
ing, “Come come ye saints.” Prayer by
Sister E. Paul. Continued by singing
“Do what is right.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved. Minutes of
the sixth ward also the fifteenth ward
Primary Associations read by their
respective Secretaries. Secretary asked to
be excused; and President Horne called on
Sister Alder to take the minutes.
	President Horne spoke of the many
blessings we have received, said she had
not been quite as well as usual, but hoped
that the sisters would arise and bear testi-
mony. 
	Sister Snow spoke of being sleepless at
night, but that her mind would constantly
take up her life from the present time and
carry her backward to her youth. Said she
had done this so much, that she come to
think that her Heavenly Father, was show-
ing her, her long life and bringing things to
her remembrance. Why she did not know
Whether because she was soon to go and
commence a new life, or not. She felt 
thankful for the restrospection and desired to
to be faithful during life.


President Horne introduced Sister
Townsend, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Cache Stake who said “I love to mingle
with my sisters. I feel to rejoice in the
work of this church. I desire to so order
my life as to gain the approval of my
Heavenly Father. I had good times in
these meetings years ago, while I lived in
Salt Lake City. I have noticed with
pleasure the many young people who attend
Professor Talmage’s Theology class. I
hope that we will be able to save them with
a glorious salvation.” Gave other good in-
struction.
	President Horne spoke of a visit of her-
self and President Z. D. H. Young, to the
Relief Society at Lehi, where, they had a
delightful meeting. Some of the brethren
met with them. Spoke of a brother who
testified that just before he was called on a
mission, he had felt to go to the Relief
Society meetings and after he had gone in-
to the world, how thankful he was that he
was able to tell them of these meetings of
the sisters. Teachers meeting was held in
the evening, and never before, had the veil
seemed so thin between this world and the
next as now, others testified to this also,
she closed by saying, “May God give us
strength to do our work, and come back in-
to His presence.” A sister in the congrega-
tion bore testimony of the power of prayer.
Sister Riddle bore a faithful testimony.
	Sister Morris spoke some on Book of
Mormon history. A Sister in the con-
gregation testified to having been healed
many times by the power of God.
Sisters Bidgood, Hazon and Sister E. Brown
bore faithful testimonies. Sisters sang a
hymn. Sister Morris of the 8th, Ward,
“I pray that my faith will be strengthened,
and that in the end it will be well with all
of us.” Sisters Forsythe, Mary Silver, a
sister in the congregation and Sister Work-
man, each bore a faithful testimony of the
goodness and power of God. Sister Tate
of Tooele also bore testimony and Presi-
dent Horne made closing remarks. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks. Sang “We
thank thee O, God for a prophet.” Bene-
diction Sister Maria Wilcox.
