IN MEMORIAM.

	SISTER SARAH B. CARTER FOSS died at East
Bountiful, Davis county, at 8:45 a. m., March 4th,
1894, of old age. She was the daughter of Ezra
F. Carter, and was born at Limerick, Maine, Sep-
tember 30, 1800, and was therefore 93 years, 5
months and 4 days old at the time of her demise.
With her husband, Calvin Foss, and Sister Phebe
Carter Woodruff, she was baptized by Elder
John F. Boynton, in September, 1834, and in
February, 1835, Brother Foss died, leaving Sister
Foss the responsibility of the care of seven
children, five of whom were baptized by Elder
Woodruff and came to Utah in his company in
1850. They settled in the Fourteenth ward of
this city, where Sister Foss resided for 36 years.
She was 34 years of age when she was left a
widow. By her industry, frugality and economy
she reared her seven children, who grew to
manhood and womanhood. They all honored
and revered her for her amiable example and
devotion, and in return she shared the confidence
and love of not only her own children but of her
grandchildren and great grandchildren. She had
38 grand-children and 72 great-grand-children.
	Sister Foss’ home in Maine, was the home of
the Elders when on missions in that vicinity; and
many of those who were on their way emigrating
to Zion, remained over at her hospitable home to
rest and make further preparations for the long
journey in covered wagons over land.
	Sister Foss was one of the first Teachers in the
Relief Society at its organization in the 14th,
Ward, August, 24th, 1869. On July 31st, she was
chosen First Counselor to Sister Phebe Woodruff,
who was appointed President of the Teachers of
the above Society at its reorganization, after the
move South and continued Counselor until
February 1885 when she resigned on account of
illhealth.
	The funeral of this veteran saint was held in
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms March 8th,
the services were conducted by Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor and the speakers were President Wilford
Woodruff, President Jos. F. Smith, Apostle F. D.
Richards President Geo. Q. Cannon also Sister
Zina D. H. Young who in her remarks referred
to its being the anniversary of the birthday of
Sister Phebe Woodruff. Each of the speakers
bore testimony to the diligence, endurance and
faithfulness of the deceased her many admirable
qualities as a woman and a saint. The funeral
was largely attended by the friends and neighbors
of Sister Foss, who had enderred herself by her
amiability and uprightness of character to all with
whom she was associated.
COM.

	THE way was long and tedious
	And the wind blew loud and fast
	Huge mountains rose before thee
	Dark waters went surging past
	But thou did’st wade through the waters,
	Clinging to the Iron Rod
	And thou did’st climb the mountains
	With thine eyes fixed on thy God.

	Now, the way is smooth and fairer
	The silvery streams glide by
	And step by step advancing
	Thou shalt reach the throne on high
	The dark waters and the mountains
	Have all vanished into air
	And thou dost know the reason
	Why great sorrows thou should’st bear.

	The mysteries of the Father
	Are much plainer uuto thee
	His wisdom and His justice,
	Methinks thou now can’st see
	Thy rest is sweet and glorious
	Thy companions fair and bright
	Oh! listen to the greeting
	Praise God! she’s won the fight.
