THE PRESENT CONDITIONS.

	THE many difficult problems which arise
out of the condition of the country in con-
sequence of the financial depression are
hard to solve, various temporary remedies
for existing evils are suggested but none
are sufficiently practical or far reaching
enough to cover the ground. The present
outlook is by no means bright considering
things naturally, but to those who put faith
in God there is a consolation, knowing that
He careth for all. Man however is ex-
pected to exert to the utmost the ability
with which He is endowed by his Creator,
not only for himself individually but for
his fellow countrymen. The Savior’s in-
junction “Love thy neighbor” would help
things very much, but on the contrary the
application is made only to one’s own, in-
stead of one’s neighbor. The great good
of humanity is very little considered by the
masses. The rights of each individual in
relation to each other and to the great world
of mankind is not sought out. To get at
the root of the matter and seek out the
cause of the differences between capital and
labor, or between the government and the
governed were a Herculean task, and even
then were the case analyzed what sort of
Doctor could prescribe. And as we can-
not revolutionize the world at large, it
might be well to commence at home.
	If the people of this Territory had heeded
the counsel of its first Governor Brigham
Young, they would be self-sustaining to-
day to a great extent. There would have
been more manufacturing, and more paid
laborers, and there would also have been
more land under cultivation,and consequent-
ly more bread for the hungry.
	By this time the people might have ad-
vanced far enough to have established the
United Order which far surpasses all the
schemes and inventions of the modern
novelist. Bellamy’s ‘‘Looking Backward”
is as a cob house compared to the strong
substantial structure on a firm foundation,
which the united order presents, to the
student of ways and means, by which to
better'the condition of the human family.
	The Single Tax people think that a great
reform in the financial and material ele-
ments of the world can be brought about
through the practice of the methods ad-
vocated by them, indeed they are very
sanguine upon the subject, and it is pos-
sible perhaps for some improvement to be
made, were they able to educate the masses,
or the majority of citizens in the ideas they
are promulgating.

[Column 2]
	When in Chicago during the World’s
Fair the writer attended a meeting and re-
ception given by some of the advocates of
the Single Tax, and heard the matter dis-
cussed on its merits. It is not likely
people will accept this new doctrine very
readily, but in New Zealand where it has
had partial application it had such good ef-
fect that the vote was overwhelming in
favor of its continuance, and it is given in
proof of its benefit “That New Zealand is
the only country within the limits of our
so-called civilization which felt no financial
depression and was unvisited by panic dur-
ing the past year.”
	In brief the few important points are
these. First—“Land in political economy
means all natural opportunities, farms, villa
sites, city lots, fisheries, mines, lumber re-
gions, water power etc.
	Second “Man cannot live without land;
without land he has neither clothes, food,
shelter, nor the thousand and one things
necessary to life, since none of these things
exist except by the application of labor to
land.”
	Third. “Thus the right to life involves
the right to land.”
	Fourth. “Therefore every man has an
equal right to land with every other man.”
	The grand question involved in all this
is, how to secure the land to which one is.
entitled without infringing upon the sacred
rights of others. This will no doubt
hinder the conversion of many as it will
be years before any amicable adjustment
could be reached.
	In the meantime our advice would be to
cultivate the land that lies waste under such
laws and regulations as now exist instead
of idling away one’s time in dispute over
capital and labor, or in tramping over the
country in defiance of decency and good
order.


[Column 1]
