IN MEMORIAM.

MARY MOOR SCHULTHESS was born in Zurich,
Swiizerland, April 8th, 1839, was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in 1865, emigrated to Utah in 1879, and died Feb.
24th, 1894. While in her native land, Sister
Schulthess an[-] another sister, who were the only
members of the church in the immediate neighbor-
hood, traveled twelve miles to meeting on foot,
and many times fasting.
She was alone for thirteen years but she always

[Column 2]
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the
gospel, and through her zeal and integrity, all of
her family, were added to the church, and some
others also.
	After coming to Utah, she labored faithfully as
a teacher in the First Ward Relief Society which
position she honorably filled until death removed
her from our midst, and she was called by our
Heavenly Father to more extensive usefulness in
a higher sphere.
	Just previous to her death, she bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the gospel, and exhorted
each member of her family, to be diligent in the
performance of their duty, and desired that they
do not grieve for her, as she was willing and
anxious to labor on the other side of the vail.
	“Oh! call it not death, it is life begun
	For the waters are passed, the home is won;
	The ransomed spirit hath reached the shore,
	Where they weep and suffer and sin no more
	She is safe in her Father’s Home above,
	In the place prepared by her Savior’s love.”
	Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has re-
leased our dearly beloved sister, from the cares
and sufferings of this world, and extended her
field of labor, therefore be it
	Resolved, that while we sympathize with the
bereaved family, and feel that we have lost an ef-
ficient worker, yet we realize that our loss will be
her gain and we feel to humbly bow to the will of
Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved that we emulate her noble examples
of charity and patience, and
	Resolved that we give a copy of these resolu-
tions to the bereaved family, that a copy be sent
to the EXPONENT office for publication, an[-] that
they be copied in the record of our Society.
	MARGARET F. STEEL, President.
	AMY A. THOMAS Secretary,
	ANNIE L. KAMMERLE, Asst. Sec.
First Ward, Salt Lake City March 6th, 1894.


