		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	MRS. NELLIE GRACE late Secretary of
the Relief Society upon the Sandwich 
Islands called at this office on her way
home from her mission with her husband,
her little girl accompanied them. Brother
and Sister Grace have returned well, and
testify that they enjoyed this foreign mis
sion very much indeed. Sister Grace told
us many interesting things concerning the
native women in the several branches of
the Society over there. The sisters on
those far away Islands are anxious to learn
and to be in conformity with our organiza-
tion in the land of Zion. Brother and
Sister Grace have returned to their home in 
Nephi, after nearly three years sojourn in a 
foreign land where Mrs. Grace has been en-
gaged in teaching and her husband in
preaching the Everlasting Gospel to a
benighted people.
	BY invitation of Mrs. Jennie Hyde of the
22nd Ward in this City several of the
sisters met at the residence of Bishop Solo-
mon on Thursday at 5 p. m. March 22nd,
in honor of the fortieth anniversary of the
birthday of the Bishop’s wife. The affair
was perfectly arranged and Mrs. Solomon
had no idea of it until some of the invited
guests arrived. Everything passed off very
pleasantly and the refreshments were both
delicious and abundant and in great variety.
After a social hour or two enlivened by
instrumental music and songs, a program
was carried out under the management of

[Column 2]
Mrs. Hyde consisting of music by the
young ladies and songs by Mrs. Julia Druce
Pugsley, an original poem by Miss Carrie
Smith addressed to Mrs. Solomon, recitation 
“Only A Girl” by Miss Abby Solomon and
speeches by several of the guests including
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith,
E. B. Wells, M. L. & Elizabeth Nebeker,
Bishop Solomon, his wife and others,
Sister Mary Ann Hyde spoke beautifully
in the gift of tongues, Sister Zina D. H. 
Young gave the interpretation, there were
quite a number of young sisters present
who had never before heard the gift of
tongues; the evening was a delightful one
in every respect. The EXPONENT joins
with the many friends of Mrs. Solomon in
wishing her many hapyy returns of the
day, with the blessings of health happiness
and prosperity.

	REV. B. B. NAGARKER, of Bombay,
India, is here on a visit to our City, and
expects to remain several days and it is
understood (or stated) that he intends to
make a study of the principles and doctrines
of the Latterday Saints. Mr. Nagarker
is a priest of the Brahmo-Somaj and was a 
Delegate to the Parliament of Religions in
Chicago. The First Presidency of the
Church gave a reception in honor of Mr. 
Nagarker at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas Jennings where he had the op-
portunity of meeting not only the First
Presidency of the Church but several of
the Apostles, and a few of the most dis-
tinguished women of the Church, Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, Mrs. George Teasdale, Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow and several other brethren and
sisters. Mrs. Jennings house was artistical-
ly decorated with flowers and trailing vines,
and the dining room was tastefully ar-
ranged. The refreshments were certainly
delicious and graciously dispeused by 
charming young girls. In fact the re-
ception was a success, the instrumental
music of Miss Celia Sharp and the vocal 
by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley added, as
good music always does to the enjoyment of
the guests. Mrs. Pugsley besides singing
a difficult opera, in which she reached the
higher notes, the simple, sweet, old ballad
“The Last Rose of Summer,” in her very
melodious voice and graceful manner.

	THE Woman’s Mass Meeting held in the
theatre March 29th, 1894 was a perfect
success numerically, and we hope and trust
it will be in the furtherance of the practice
and promotion of the object and sentiment
of home industries and manufactures.
Mrs. W. S. McCornick presided. Seated
on the platform beside the speakers were
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Maria Y. 
Dougall, Mrs. M. B. Salisbury, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. George A. Lowe and others.
Dr. Ellen B. Furguson was the first
speaker, making a very able effort in the
interest of home products and the work
to be done in promoting the various enter-
prises. Mrs. Kinney’s was a written paper
and dealt with the ethical. Mrs. Froesieth.
was forcible and very much in earnest, Mrs.
Elmer B. Jones was a very able address
and has been highly spoken of. The last
speaker Mrs. Emily S. Richards was born
in Utah and consequently was familiar
with the efforts made in the early days,
and was well prepared to speak understand-
ingly  upon a subject which she had been
taught in her childhood. The ladies ac-
quitted themselves creditably and it is ar-


dently hoped the meeting will prove bene-
ficial and the result of the great endeavors
being made will strengthen the movement.
	The following resolution was voted upon
	RESOLVED—That the women of Utah are
heartily in sympathy with the home industry
movement and with the efforts of the manufactur-
ers bureau, and that they will support the move-
ment in thought and deed.


