FUNERAL REFORMS.
	A DISPATCH from London says,—One of
the largest conferences in the interest of
funeral reform ever held opened at West-
minister. It is under the auspices of
the Burial, Funeral, and Mourning Reform
Association, and its object is to advocate the
exercises of economy and simplicity in all
funeral appurtenances, and the disuse of
crape scarfs, feathers, velvet trappings and
similar emblems of mourning. It is also
sought to create a sentiment in favor of the
early interment of bodies, and the use of.
coffins of such material as will rapidly de-
cay after burial, on the ground that this is
in accordance with the laws of nature and
avoids sanitary evils, while the practice of
burying in almost imperishable coffins is
fraught with great danger. The conference
will consider the feasibility of securing the
aid of Parliament in the direction of secur-
ing the passage of a legislative enactment
regulating funerals.


PARENTS and guardians of children of
school age and persons who own taxable
property—not necessarily tax payers, as two
hundred and fifty dollars worth of property
is exempt—are voters for members of School
Boards in Michigan.
	The requirements are the same for wo-
men as for men. In the country, in vil-
lages, in Flint and some others, incorpor-
ated city registration is not required. As
all jewelry (gold, silver, brass, etc.) and all
musical instrutnents, (jewsharps, mouth
organs, etc.) and money at interest (one
cent or more) are assessed as personal
property every person of legal age and
residence may vote. Women may be
elected members of country, village and
city School Boards and they may be elected
Township School Inspectors and County
Superintendent of Schools. Four hundred
and thirty-seven women voted April 2nd in
Flint, Michigan.


MRS. LIZZIE H. SHIPP, professor and
practical teacher of obstetrics, will open a
school of obstetrics and nursing in Sal
Lake City the first Monday in May. A
half yearly course will be taught for the
unprecedented low terms of ten dollars.
All persons desiring to avail themselves of
this opportunity will please consult me by
letter or in person at No. 34 S. 7th, East
Street, Salt Lake City.
DUNFORD’S
	Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
	FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday January 29th and continuing for
				30 days.
	DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
		57 SOUTH MAIN ST.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
		The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
Will commence her next class in Ob-
stetrics and Nursing on Monday, April
16, 1894.
Office: 34 East 5th South, 
	Telephone 383.
Woman’s Co-operative Inst’n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
	ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
		AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
			POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, Iates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No.41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
	Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
	Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Will begin her next Class April 9th. Reviews
given to former students free of charge. For
particulars enquire personally or by letter at No.
18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


