[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Magazine | Author: Sharp]
["Magazine" Subscriptions for 1953 Marianne C. Sharp]
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1954 
as  crushed  and  bruised  as  the  flower 
in  her  fingers.  She  thrust  the  svm- 
bol  upon  the  ground.  Then,  push- 
ing the  tears  back,  she  entered  the 
rear  door  of  her  home. 
Margaret  could  hear  the  chil- 
dren's voices  above  the  rat-rat  of 
the  ping-pong  balls  in  the  base- 
ment. She  decided  to  take  a  brisk 
shower.  Then,  perhaps,  her  family 
wouldn't  notice  her  swollen  eyes. 
But  the  shower  was  not  refreshing 
as  she  had  hoped,  for  the  needles 
of  hot  water  kept  prickling  into  her 
flesh  as  if  tattooing  the  word  school. 
She  donned  a  robe  and  went  to 
their  room  to  put  on  something 
fresh.  As  she  entered  their  room,  she 
usually  took  renewed  pride  in  the 
chintz  curtains  and  the  spool  bed 
in  a  white  petticoat,  but  tonight 
she  noticed  none  of  this.  John  had 
crawled,  as  if  exhausted,  into  bed. 
Poor  dear,  Margaret  thought,  if  he 
goes  to  college,  he'll  never  know 
what  it  is  to  sleep  early  evenings. 
Somehow  Margaret  managed  to 
plow  through  the  evening  tasks  of 
undressing  the  little  children,  listen- 
ing to  their  prayers,  and  tucking 
them  in  for  their  dreams,  but  the 
feeling  of  brooding  menace  never 
left  her. 
It  was  past  her  usual  bedtime 
when  she  brushed  her  teeth,  jerked 
the  window  open,  and  crept  be- 
tween the  sheets.  Hours  later  she 
awakened  shaking.  She  rolled  her 
head  from  side  to  side,  but  her  body 
remained  rigid,  conscious  of  the 
sharp  pain  deep  inside.  Sleep  must 
have  taken  possession  of  Margaret 
again,  for  when  she  opened  her  eyes 
it  was  a  new  day.  But,  for  Mar- 
garet, it  lacked  the  usual  anticipa- 
tion which  a  new  day  brings. 
1UIGHT  followed  day  and  day 
night,  and  it  was  Wednesday 
afternoon.  Margaret  stood  gazing 
into  their  cold  unused  fireplace  as 
she  listened  to  the  petulant  drip  of 
an  autumn  rain  on  the  roof.  Her 
hands  were  clammy  as  she  churned 
inside.  The  hurt  bewilderment 
still  clouded  her  eyes.  The  very 
thought  of  years  ahead  with  John 
at  school  stretched  like  a  vast  gray 
ocean— monotonous,  endless  empti- 
ness. John  had  said  she  would