[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Say it | Author: South]
["Say it with Flowers" Norma W. South]
Norma W. South HE words so often used by the florist industry bring an intriguing thought to me. What has been said to me by way of flowers? What have I tried to say to others? When I was a little girl, no taller than a window sill, my world seemed to be made up mostly of flowers. Dozens of flowering house plants lined our windows. My view of the outside world was always framed by flowers and, as I grew taller, by lovely foliage and flowers. October, there was often wind and sleet and snow, but inside it was always summer. Mother's geraniums were deep red, bright red, old rose, pink, white, and salmon color. 'The Martha Washington geranium, with its gray-green leaves, had single flowers of old rose, with deep rose throats. 'The fuchsia was the wonder plant, with its delicate stems and _ lavender-red blossoms which hung down like bells on a Christmas tree. 'The Marguerite had fern-like foliage and large white daisy blossoms. 'Then there was the California pink which had a blossom of fine pink fringe and no leaves at all; it had queer needles like those of an evergreen! Every night through the long winter months, mother patiently carried her plants from the windows to the kitchen table where they would be safe from frost. Every morning she gave each plant a drink. One year she took new slips and repotted all the plants, using rich loamy soil from under the wild English willows. I have never learned any more of her secrets of Page 304 growing house plants; that is why I cannot grow them as well as she. Perhaps Mother was never conscious of saying things with her flowers; we were not conscious of receiving the messages. But they told us many things just the same. They told us that here was love and patience, not only for the plants, but for the children who lived with them. They told us that home was beautiful and warm and safe. As the plants cost mother not a cent, they told us that there are many beautiful and wonderful things in the world which have nothing at all to do with money. 'The blossoms cheered us through childhood illness and gave us courage when father was away at the hospital for three whole months. They taught us that God can do some very remarkable things. I can close my eyes and see the flowers and people marching through my girlhood. It is the junior prom. There are new formals, flowers, ecstasy! Now I am returning from a college spring formal. The young man in the tuxedo takes the rose from his lapel and presses it into my hand. 'The little flower tells the sweet message for which he cannot find adequate words. My wedding... There are flowers everywhere. Mother is saying, "Norma, the pink double hollyhocks have bloomed early this year, just for you." She is so happy including her flowers in the plans. "We'll decorate the table with glads, the white and pink coronas." I see again my wedding bouquet. SAY IT WITH FLOWERS The years are rushing on. There are flowers for birthdays, weddings, a funeral... My father's. Now I am lying in a hospital, not ill at all, but rejoicing over the safe arrival of our third child, a dear little boy. The door opens and a sweet little girl of nine enters, carrying a small bouquet picked from my own garden. Her blue eyes fill with tears; she is unable to speak, but the flowers tell what she has come to say. I reach joyfully for the flowers, and the little blond head goes down on my pillow. It is so lonesome at home without Mommie. I am again in a hospital, standing beside a white bed. It is a crisis in our lives; our daughter is very ill with pneumonia. I lay a cool hand on her feverish brow. "Darling,' I begin, trying not to 305 let my voice betray my fear, "remember how our sweetpeas looked last summer on the fence? 'They were so pretty when a cool breeze stirred them." It is my way of saying, "Don't be afraid, dear. God will watch over you and make you well, even as he can change a very small seed into a beautiful flowering plant." She smiles and closes her tired eyes in sleep. It is a very good sign. Today a spring shower has refreshed my flower garden. 'The bleeding heart is blooming beautifully. 'The iris, narcissus, and tulips are waiting to be made into a bouquet for our table. 'Through the spring, summer, and fall, I will find things to say to my family and friends, and I will say them with Howers. Oi Preserving
