[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Coronation | Author: Hase]
[Coronation Roxana Farnsworth Hase]
290 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1954 
What  stories  this  picturesque 
river  could  tell  if  it  were  able  to 
speak!  But  surely  none  would  be 
more  inspiring  than  the  events  of 
that  Sabbath.  Only  on  one  other 
such  occasion  has  an  event  at- 
tracted people  in  their  thousands, 
and  that  was  the  visit  of  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  who  unveiled  the 
plaque  on  the  27th  of  July  1937, 
commemmorating  those  first  bap- 
tisms a  century  before.  Preston 
Branch  holds  a  firm  place  in  the 
British  Mission,  and  proud  are  the 
Preston  saints  of  their  heritage  and 
their  lovely  new  chapel. 
-K 
-K 
-
oronation 
Roxaiia  F^Tnswoith  Hase 
/^UT  of  doors  Spring  stretched  her  graceful,  fragrant  fingers  almost  across  the  peb- 
^^  bled  walk  leading  up  to  the  white  house.  It  was  as  though  she  wished  that  she 
might  venture  clear  inside.  Yet,  a  bit  of  her  glory  was  there,  for  the  second  daughter 
had  gathered  enough  lovely  white  blossoms  to  fill  the  blue  vase  on  the  table  in  the 
room.  She  had  taken  them  in  quietly,  and  no  one  had  bade  her  stay.  Perhaps  they 
thought  her  too  young. 
The  room  was  hushed,  as  though  church  might  be  about  to  begin.  Yet,  this  was 
not  a  church,  but  a  small,  clean  room.  The  people  there  were  assembled  for  a  par- 
ticular purpose.  Each  one  was  busy  with  his  or  her  own  thoughts  and  tasks.  This 
was  an  eventful  day. 
The  world  at  large  had  never  even  heard  of  the  woman  who  was  soon  to  be 
crowned  a  queen  there.  She  was  young  and  beautiful,  with  a  certain  radiance  of 
countenance  hard  to  describe.  Her  coronation  was  not  a  sudden,  spur  of  the  moment 
thing,  as  though  someone  had  abdicated.  It  had  been  in  preparation  for  almost  a 
year.    The  principals  had  been  well  instructed  as  to  what  to  expect  and  do. 
The  preparations,  while  adequate,  were  by  no  means  elaborate.  The  queen's  gown 
was  of  snowy  white  cotton.  It  boasted  no  fine  handmade  imported  lace  or  golden 
threads.  There  was  no  mile-long  train,  no  ermine  robe,  no  richly  accoutered  retinue,  no 
high-stepping  steeds  with  rich  trappings.  Missing  was  the  martial  music  and  gay 
aplomb,  yet  the  expectancy  of  the  moment  filled  all  the  room. 
The  one  person  who  could  make  the  coronation  a  certainty  had  not  yet  arrived. 
It  was  this  momentarily  expected  presence  which  gave  such  a  somber  air  to  the  pro- 
ceedings. 
Off  to  one  side  an  elderly  lady  was  praying  with  bowed  head.  Sh-e  was  the  queen