[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 01 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: Portrait of Mother Vesta P. Crawford]
Nerth Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Tlaytime in the Valley Beatrice K. Ekman The sun has climbed the morning stair And myriad insects strum the air; Out of the meadow lark's smooth throat Melodic strains of rapture float Across the valley's pulsing breast. From mountains east to mountains west, The emerald robe of spring is laid, Dappled with sunlight and cloud shade. The sego-lily chalice spills Gold pollen on the kneeling hills; From rock-walled canyons, clear streams flow To the lush pasture lands below, Where spiders weave a silver loom On wild rose hedges, pink with bloom; And blossomed plum adds nuances of grace With airy petals of white lace. The Cover: Channel Drive, Santa Barbara, California Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: White Carnations, Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen Mother's Influence Edith Price Backman Member, General Board of Relief Society Her children rise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her (Proverbs 31:28). FE, are commanded to: Ifonour thy father and thy mother, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee; that thy days may be prolonged, and that it may go well with thee, in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee (Deut. 5:16). It is gratifying that our nation has sought to encourage and cultivate every sentiment which binds men and women to the home and which exalts motherhood. There cannot be homes without mothers, for they are the homemakers; and without homes the nation cannot long endure. A man's success and triumphs mean more to his mother than to himself. She never loses faith in him; she never forgets him; she never forsakes him. Her implicit faith in him is one of the beautiful things in life and a great influence in the world. Joseph Smith said, "The love of a true mother comes nearer being like the love of God than any other kind of love." Mothers had a great influence in establishing The Church of Jesus Christ in this dispensation. 'They experienced the hardships, persecutions, and privations incident to pioneer life. Because of their true testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ, they were able to brave the many hardships which they encountered. From the lives of these great women may we learn to sacrifice more, to give more of our Page 284 real selves to the work of God, to instill in our children an abiding testimony, and a desire to serve him and keep his commandments. Many widows' sons have achieved nobly in the earth, and have attributed their success to the teachings and influence of their mothers. President Heber J. Grant gave us this burning testimony of what his mother meant to him: I live today as one whose mother was all to me. She set an example of integrity, of devotion and love,. And of dctermination and honor second to none. Her life was a sermon that rings through my soul to this day. One of the main reasons I am President of the Church today is that I have followed the advice and counsel and the burning testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ, which came to me from my Mother. During the troubled war days of George Washington, Mary Ball Washington, mother of the First President of the United States, in order to keep her faith strong would often say, "The mothers and wives of brave men must be brave women." She also said, "George is apt to succeed in anything he undertakes. He was always a good boy." This is an example of the implicit faith and confidence a mother has ~ in her children. Nancy Hanks, mother of Lincoln, was a woman of simplicity and strength, living in the poorest kind of shack in the wilderness of Kentucky. Even though she may have MOTHER'S INFLUENCE felt the pinch of poverty, she did her duty toward this boy tenderly. As she spoke some of her last words to her nine-year-old son, this was her plea, her hope, "Be somebody, Abe." His kindness, humor, humility, and his hatred of slavery came from his mother. His love and affection for her were expressed in the statement he made saying, "All that I am or all that I ever hope to be I owe to my angel mother." N our own Book of Mormon, when the Nephites and the Lamanites were warring among themselves, they were given certain promises if they would keep the commandments of God, and told if they did not, destruction would follow. 'Then we have the marvelous record of two thousand Lamanite boys—just boys—who joined the army of the Nephites in order to help preserve themselves and their families. But they had been taught by their mothers that God would protect them if they would do their duty. These two thousand boys, part of the army of the Nephites, went into battle repeatedly, and the last struggle was so terrible that, we are told, all were wounded. When Helaman, their captain, saw their enemies driven away he was anxious for his young charges (he called them striplings, just boys) and he went among the dead and gathered them to find out how many were living. He found everyone of them alive, although many had fainted from the loss of blood. When Helaman, who was amazed at their miraculous preservation, questioned them concerning it, 285 their response was one of the greatest compliments to motherhood to be found anywhere: ". We do not doubt our mothers knew it" (Alma 56:48). They believed what their mothers taught them. 'They had faith in God. They were preserved, and they helped save their homes and families from destruction. Some mothers have fallen below these standards, and some have exerted but little influence in_ the world. 'There are many women, who because of riches or other influences, have become idle, selfish, and miserable. 'They are not the mothers who inspire their children to become the leaders of men; but the overwhelming majority of mothers are brave, pure, sincere, and selfforgetful. The observance of Mother's Day has created an opportunity to express the love and gratitude we feel toward our mothers. Many beautiful tributes and honors are heaped upon us that day. Have we magnified our greatest of all callings, motherhood? Are we, as mothers in Zion, worthy of all these beautiful tributes? Are we living up to our obligations as mothers in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints to teach our children the truths of the gospel, and to be living examples of its principles? We read in Proverbs 22:6: Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it. If we teach our children to honor the Priesthood, the sanctity of eternal marriage, to keep the Sabbath day holy, to observe the law & 286 of tithing, to hold family prayer, to be honest, truthful, and virtuous, to have love in their hearts for one another and for their Heavenly Father, we know they will not depart from these teachings. Every day will be Mother's Day, and our children will grow and develop to be useful men and women, upholding the highest ideals and principles of the gospel. A report was given in a recent stake conference that only one half of the missionaries interviewed in that stake to go on missions for the Church, reported family prayers were being held in their homes. Think what a priceless opportunity the parents of these young men are losing by not having family prayers, *K *K RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 where the bonds of love, unity, and security could be established _permanently in the home. President David O. McKay said: One of the greatest needs in the world today is intelligent, conscientious motherhood. It is to the home we must look for the inculcation of the fundamental virtues which contribute to human welfare and happiness. Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. May we as mothers be that potential influence for good in our families and realize the highest ambition of true mothers, that of rearing families of noble, successful, righteous children, who will arise up and call us blessed.