[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Bunker]
[A Mother's Prayer for Her Son Wilma B. Bunker]

She is particularly skilled in crocheting, and her many exquisite designs reveal a keen sense of artistry and color. She is an excellent quilter, her nimble fingers always flying on Relief Society work meeting day. Her Church services have included many years as a teacher in Relief Society where she has served in varied capacities, becoming a member when she was fifteen years of age. Now a member of the Mesa First ward, and still a visiting teacher, she brings joy and comfort to many homes. She has also been Religion Class, Sunday School, and Primary teacher. ~~ <-> Come Gently. Spring Christie Lund Coles Come gently, Spring, Upon this street, Where youth once ran With jet-swift feet. Come gently, Spring, To mark the years, Where youth once shed Its war-dark tears. Come swiftly, Spring, Peace thread your rain, For youth is coming Home again.

Page 317 The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 8—CONCLUSION Alice Morrey Bailey ARGARET was waiting for M Steve on the steps of the nurse's home. He _ rushed up to her, gripped her elbows in his palms, and searched her face. Her eyes were enormous and brilliant in her chilled face. She looked near hysteria. "Steve!" she said through stiff lips. "Steve, I've broken my engagement." Light splintered in Steve's brain, cut he held his physical reactions calm. He put her wordlessly into his car and headed for the mountains. "Relax," he told her quietly. "Don't talk, but lean your head back and rest." She leaned her head against the cushions and closed her eyes, but her set features told Steve she was not relaxing, and she was not resting. He drove on, praying silently for the right words to say, the right things to do. When he had reached a point high above the valley, he turned the car into a sideway and switched off the engine. 'There was no sound there except the gentle sighing of the pines, and no light except the moon, which was shining full and bright. He turned to Margaret. "Tell me about it," he commanded. "It wasn't just one thing, Steve," she said without moving or opening her eyes. "It was many things—first the way I felt about him, and the way I felt about you.