[Vol41 | May 1954 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Thou | Author: Miner]
[Thou Shalt Never Cease to Grow Caroline Eyring Miner]
ous record  of  two  thousand  Laman- 
ite  bovs— just  boys— who  joined  the 
army  of  the  Nephites  in  order  to 
help  preserve  themselves  and  their 
families.  But  they  had  been  taught 
by  their  mothers  that  God  would 
protect  them  if  they  would  do  their 
duty. 
These  two  thousand  boys,  part  of 
the  army  of  the  Nephites,  went  in- 
to battle  repeatedly,  and  the  last 
struggle  was  so  terrible  that,  we  are 
told,  all  were  wounded.  When 
Helaman,  their  captain,  saw  their 
enemies  dri\'en  away  he  was  anxious 
for  his  young  charges  (he  called 
them  striplings,  just  boys)  and  he 
went  among  the  dead  and  gathered 
them  to  find  out  how  many  were 
living.  He  found  e\'eryone  of  them 
alive,  although  many  had  fainted 
from  the  loss  of  blood. 
When  Helaman,  who  was  amazed 
at  their  miraculous  preservation, 
questioned     them     concerning     it, 
their  response  was  one  of  the  great- 
est compliments  to  motherhood  to 
be  found  anywhere:  ".  .  .  We  do 
not  doubt  our  mothers  knew  it" 
(Alma  56:48). 
They  believed  what  their  mothers 
taught  them.  They  had  faith  in 
God.  They  were  preserved,  and 
they  helped  save  their  homes  and 
families  from  destruction. 
Some  mothers  have  fallen  below 
these  standards,  and  some  have  ex- 
erted but  little  influence  in  the 
world.  There  are  many  women, 
who  because  of  riches  or  other  in- 
fluences, have  become  idle,  selfish, 
and  miserable.  They  are  not  the 
mothers  who  inspire  their  children 
to  become  the  leaders  of  men;  but 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  moth- 
ers are  brave,  pure,  sincere,  and  self- 
forgetful. 
The  observance  of  Mother's  Day 
has  created  an  opportunity  to  ex- 
press the  love  and  gratitude  we  feel 
to\^ard  our  mothers.  Many  beauti- 
ful tributes  and  honors  are  heaped 
upon  us  that  day.  Have  we  magni- 
fied our  greatest  of  all  callings, 
motherhood?  Are  we,  as  mothers 
in  Zion,  worthy  of  all  these  beauti- 
ful tributes?  Are  we  living  up  to 
our  obligations  as  mothers  in  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  teach  our  children  the 
truths  of  the  gospel,  and  to  be  liv- 
ing examples  of  its  principles? 
We  read  in  Proverbs  22:6: 
Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should 
go:  and  uhen  he  is  old,  he  will  not  de- 
part from  it. 
If  we  teach  our  children  to  honor 
the  Priesthood,  the  sanctity  of 
eternal  marriage,  to  keep  the  Sab- 
bath day  holy,  to  observe  the  law

286 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1954 
of  tithing,  to  hold  family  prayer,  to 
be  honest,  truthful,  and  virtuous,  to 
have  love  in  their  hearts  for  one  an- 
other and  for  their  Heavenly  Father, 
we  know  they  will  not  depart  from 
these  teachings.  Every  day  will  be 
Mother's  Day,  and  our  children  will 
grow  and  develop  to  be  useful  men 
and  women,  upholding  the  highest 
ideals  and  principles  of  the  gospel. 
A  report  was  given  in  a  recent 
stake  conference  that  only  one  half 
of  the  missionaries  interviewed  in 
that  stake  to  go  on  missions  for  the 
Church,  reported  family  prayers 
were  being  held  in  their  homes. 
Think  what  a  priceless  opportunity 
the  parents  of  these  young  men  are 
losing  by  not  having  family  prayers, 
where  the  bonds  of  love,  unity,  and 
security  could  be  established  per- 
manently in  the  home. 
President  David  O.  McKay  said: 
One  of  the  greatest  needs  in  the  world 
today  is  intelligent,  conscientious  mother- 
hood. It  is  to  the  home  we  must  look 
for  the  inculcation  of  the  fundamental 
virtues  which  contribute  to  human  wel- 
fare and  happiness.  Motherhood  is  the 
greatest  potential  influence  either  for  good 
or  ill  in  human  life. 
May  we  as  mothers  be  that  po- 
tential influence  for  good  in  our 
families  and  realize  the  highest  am- 
bition of  true  mothers,  that  of  rear- 
ing families  of  noble,  successful, 
righteous  children,  who  will  arise 
up  and  call  us  blessed. 
-^ 
^ 
^ 
J/l    ifiothers  irra^er  for  uier  Son 
WiJma  B.  Bunker 
P>UILD  me  a  son,  O  Lord,  wise  enough  to  know  the  right  and  brave  enough  to  do  it. 
'-^  May  he  be  as  strong  in  defeat  as  in  victory.  Rear  him,  I  pray,  not  in  the  ways 
of  ease  and  comfort,  but  under  the  stress  of  difficulties  and  challenges.  Give  him  the 
strength  to  meet  these  challenges  with  courage  and  resolution. 
May  his  daily  life  be  clean  and  triumphant,  his  goal  high  and  worthy.  Teach  him 
that  mastery  of  self  always  precedes  mastery  of  others. 
Build  me  a  son  who  will  have  compassion  for  those  who  have  failed  and  forgiveness 
for  those  who  have  hurt  him.  Help  him  to  realize  that  true  happiness  comes  from  serv- 
ice to  others — to  forget  oneself  in  a  great  and  good  cause. 
And  after  all  these  are  his,  add,  I  pray,  enough  of  a  sense  of  humor  so  that  he 
will  not  take  himself  too  seriously;  enough  optimism  so  that  those  around  him  are 
lifted  up;  and  enough  humility  so  that  he  will  never  cease  to  be  modest,  humble,  and 
unpretending. 
And  help  him,  O  Lord,  to  remember  that  thou  art  ever  present  if  he  will  but  seek 
thee,  I  pray.

The  Birth  of  a  Heritage  —  The 
Gospel  in  England 
Elsie  Scott 
M 
EMBERS  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  who  visit  Preston, 
England,  whether  they  be  from  oth- 
er towns  in  Great  Britain  or  from 
America,  almost  invariably  express 
the  pleasure  and  interest  they  feel 
in  being  privileged  to  visit  this  his- 
toric town  and  to  see  the  places 
which  played  such  a  vital  part  in 
the  propagation  of  the  gospel  in 
this  land. 
It  was  about  four  in  the  after- 
noon of  the  22d  of  July  1837  ^^^^ 
Heber  C.  Kimball,  Willard  Rich- 
ards, Orson  Hyde,  and  Joseph 
Fielding,  with  three  brethren  from 
Canada,  John  Goodson,  Isaac  Rus- 
sell, and  John  Snyder,  arrived  in 
Preston.  They  had  landed  in 
Liverpool,  but  lingered  there  only 
long  enough  to  seek  guidance  from 
the  Lord,  and  in  answer  to  their 
prayers  were  directed  to  continue 
their  journey  to  Preston,  another 
thirty  miles  —  a  much  longer  jour- 
ney then  than  it  is  today. 
Elections,  commanded  by  the 
new  Queen  Victoria,  were  taking 
place  with  much  celebration  as 
these  weary  men,  strangers  in  a 
strange  land,  entered  the  town  of 
Preston.  They  were  heartened  by 
the  message  on  a  banner  unfurled, 
almost  above  their  heads,  which 
stated  in  gilt  letters  'Truth  Will 
Prevail."  An  omen?  A  message 
to  the  messengers?  Truth  did  in- 
deed prevail. 
It  was  opportune  that  one  of  the 
missionaries,  Joseph  Fielding,  had 
a  brother  in  Preston,  a  minister, 
and  while  Joseph  went  to  visit  with 
his  brother,  the  other  brethren 
found  lodging  in  Wilfred  Street, 
but  visited  with  the  Rev.  James 
Fielding  on  the  evening  of  arrival 
where  they  discussed  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel.  An  invitation 
to  attend  the  Vaux  Hall  chapel  next 
day  was  speedily  accepted,  as  was 
the  later  invitation  to  address  the 
congregation.  This  was  a  direct 
answer  to  the  prayer  of  Heber  C. 
Kimball  that  the  Lord  would  open 
the  way  for  them  to  preach. 
Viewing  the  sadly  forsaken,  di- 
lapidated chapel  today,  with  its 
rows  of  empty  seats,  it  is  difficult 
to  imagine  the  large  congregation 
that  gathered  on  that  Sabbath  day 
to  hear  these  strange  men  who 
spoke  of  angels  again  visiting  the 
earth,  restoring  the  gospel  in  all  its 
truth  to  men. 
Of  that  first  public  meeting  to 
be  held  in  Great  Britain  on  the 
23d  of  July  1837,  Elder  Kimball  has 
this  to  say: 
I  declared  that  an  angel  had  visited  the 
earth  and  committed  the  everlasting  Gos- 
pel to  man;  called  their  attention  to  the 
first  principles  of  the  Gospel;  and  gave 
them  a  brief  history  of  the  work  which 
the  Lord  had  commenced  on  the  earth; 
after  which  Elder  Hyde  bore  testimony 
to  the  same,  which  was  received  by  many 
with  whom  I  afterwards  conversed;  they 
cried,  "Glory  to  God,"  and  rejoiced  that 
the  Lord  had  sent  His  servants  unto 
them.  Thus  was  the  key  turned  and 
the   Gospel    dispensation   opened   on    the 
Page  287