SINGING MOTHERS.

	As night began to spread her shadowy wings
over the great throbbing world about us, from the
open doors and windows of the houses near came
the sweet sound of voices in song. They were
mothers' voices, and no one who heard the wealth
of love throbbing in every line and word could
doubt that some one was being rocked to sleep,
that some little restless head was pillowed upon
a loving arm, that some one's eyes were droop-
ing nearer and nearer the rosy cheek. Yes, in
every house in my immediate neighborhood the
noise and prattle of little children are heard all
day long, and the sweet bedtime song at night.
	Hark ! "Bye O Baby, Bye O Darling." Ah,
 es, that same old song sung to us, I ween, and
to our parents before us. Then in the little white
house just across the way the words, "Jesus Keep
Me Near the Cross," came so soft and low I bent
my ear to catch the words. I fell into a reverie.
How strong and loving and hopeful the voice
sounded, and yet I knew some heart must have
its burden. But burdens must not be laid upon
the little hearts, to sap the sunshine and happi-
ness there. So whatever trouble the mother
knows, the trusting eyes only see a patient, lov-
ing face bending over them. It is ever so. The
papers say, "Meet your husband with a smile;',


and our own hearts say "Meet your children with
a smile;" so we must go on smiling and smiling,
letting the agony at our hearts down, down,
smothered perhaps by and by, by the very smiles
that were so hard to give.
	Ah, what does the world owe to the mothers,
the patient, loving, song-singing mothers? Who
can tell? How many lives have been turned,
changed completely-by the encouraging smile of
the mother, or the song, coming full of love and
gladness to win her child back to the path of
righteousness.
	A lady once lived beside a new house that was
just going up. The workmen were very profane
and as she had a little daughter she feared the
example, as the great oaths followed each other
in quick succession. There were so many of the
men that she could hardly summon courag[-]
enough to ask them to desist, so she thought o
another way. She sang—sweet religious songs
in her clear, strong voice—sang with new en-
couragement as the profane voices were all
hushed, as if listening. As long as she sang
there were no voices, and when the swearing be-
gan and she broke into the sweet old strains of
"Jesus, Lover of My Soul" the voices were all
silenced.
	In the roughest heart some soft spot still re-
mains, and if an old sin-hardened heart can thus
be made different, think of the influence on our
babies. So,dear mothers,let us continue to sing;
sing gladly if you can, even though we do not
feel altogether so ourselves. But let us sing any-
way.
		BERTHA PACKARD ENGLET.
Belmond, Ia.


[Column 1]

