A SKETCH FROM LIFE. 

	Old memories and thoughts of other days
are crowding on my mind tonight; thoughts of
childhood’s companions, and old scenes and
friends who have long since passed away their
looks and words return with vivid force. Why
is it scenes so long passed from the stage of
time have power to return with such force to
the mind that we can almost imagine we are
looking in a mirror where pictures come and
go, or looking upon a scroll on which is
recording the events of the past.
	One of these pictures is that of an old house
situated in one of the most pleasant parts of
old England, a house large and roomy with its
front windows facing the bay where the stately
ships lay in the harbor. Not the steam ships
of to-day, but the great ‘‘Ships of the line,”
each one with a history in itself, there lay the
Britannia, and the Thunderer, and the great
Victoria on which Lord Nelson won his last
battle and received his death wound in the
moment of Victory, things as familiar to the
children that lived in that house, as are the
street cars and the mountains that surround
our children’s nomes today. The house stood
in the midst of a garden filled with fruit and
flowers with evergreens on every side; then
there were the meadows at the back where the
children gathered the primrose, the snowdrops
and the violets in the early days of Spring,
that later in the season were covered with the
daisy and the blue bell and great yellow butter-
cups, with which the happy children weave
garlands, tell one another’s fortunes, and try
whose face will best reflect the golden beauty
of the flowers: haypy days of childhood passed
away all too soon but leaving a trace upon the
heart that bears an influence on all the alter
life. Yes happy children gather your flowers
while you may for soon, the stern realities of
life will be upon you, and in place of the
flowers you gather now your tender fingers
will soon be torn by the thorns and briers of
life’s-wilderness, and your young hearts be
saddened with the knowledge of the evil and
sorrow that exists in the world, that to you is
now a sealed book.
	I recall a day in the month of April when
the voices of the children are not heard shout-
ing to each other in the garden,for though the
cookoo has returned to the old oak tree and is
loudly proclaiming that Spring has come, its
voice is disregarded; they are not searching the
meadows to see which can first discover where
the sky lark is building her nest, or watching
the flight of her mate as he ascends far out of
sight trilling his song of praise to the great
Creator. On the day of which I speak they
are doing none of these things they are within
the house and their voices are hushed in awe
and grief, for the Angel of Death is hovering
on their threshold and is about to claim for
his own, him who is the head, and support of
that house the loving husband, the tender
father is about to pass away.
	It was the month of February preceding
the time of which I write when he returned
to his home with dripping clothing having
been exposed to a violent storm while in the
execution of his duty, he being Captain of the
Earl of Chatham, and it was his duty to meet
the returning ships before they entered the
bay to receive their stores and see that they
were properly deposited in the Magazines; a
responsible position which he filled with
honor.
	Though usually in the enjoyment of robust
health, before retiring for the night he com-
plained of feeling ill, but thought that rest and
warmth would restore him; he said I shall not
leave the house tomorrow but will stay at
home and rest. While undressing a strange
thing happened to him; he sat upon the side
of the bed and seemed to lose consciousness for

[Column 2]
a few minutes, then said to his wife, I could
see inside of myself, and there is a black spot
at the pit of my stomach, I do not know but
the Lord is about to take me away from you
all. He lay down upon the bed from which
he never rose, for although the best medical
skill was called in, and the loving wife and
family had spent weary days and watchful
nights all had been in vain. The strong man
has become as weak as a child and all know
that the end is near. The elder children
have been summoned from their distant homes
and though two are still absent, yet there are
twelve around that bed of death the husband
and father there awaiting the last great change
fears not death, for though he has not had
the privilege of hearing of the restoration of
the Everlasting Gospel, he has striven his best
according to the light He had, to do his duty
to God and man he has ever given good
counsel to his family and been charitable to
mankind; in the days of his strength and pros-
perity he has endeavored to serve his God and
in the hour of His extremity he has not been
forgotten by Him. And now the Angel of the
covenant stands ready to convey him through the 
dark vale of death.
	His eye is growing dim and his voice faint,
he looks around the room and misses the
younger children, who have been banished
from the apartment a short time before, and
makes the request that they be brought in,that
he may look upon their faces once more and
take a last farewell. They come with fear and
trembling and some of them give vent to their
grief in tears and sobs. He looks at them with
eyes filled with love, he speaks their names
and says a word or two to each, and one a child
of ten whose naturally rosy cheeks have grown
pale with watching by that sick bed which no
calls of companions, or thoughts of play could
induce her to leave that sick room, and has
scarcely ever left it except when compelled by
her mother, and often after being sent to her
bed she has waited till her sisters slept and
then crept back and begged to remain, which
she was often permitted to do, notwithstanding
the remonstrauces of friends who rightly con-
sidered that her health would suffer. She it
was who never wearied of reading to him, and
could most readily turn to his favorite passages
of scripture, those words of comfort that he
loved so well, she approaches the bed suppress-
ing every sigh of emotion, for though so young
the child has thoughts and feelings far beyond
her years, and understands but too well the
loss she is about sustain the dying father
makes an effort to raise the hand that lays
upon the coverlet and turning those eyes of
love that she would never again behold in life,
pronounced in a distinct voice the words, “my
poor little daughter the Lord bless you,”
words that thrilled through every nerve and
fibre of the child; words never to be forgotten
by her. The scene is drawing to a close and
when one of the youngest of the children is
borne from the room in the arms of a friend
turns and with quivering lips says the simple
words “goodbye father,” the fountain of tears
are unlocked and none present can restrain
their weeping.
	How plainly 1 recall the scene. I seem to
hear the dash of the waves upon
the beach, the sighing of the wind in the
trees; to see the sunlight shining through the
open windows, the dying man upon the bed,
the fainting wife, the sobbing children.
	Many years have passed since then and
the children who then mingled their tears
together have been separated from each other
and some have gone to solve the problem of
their existence behind the vail; but the one
that received the sweet “God bless you,” from
the lips of her dying father, still remains,
though separated from all her kindred.
	Many and vivid have been the sorrows and

[Column 3]
trials of her life, but the blessing she received
has been as a beacon light in her path, and an 
anchor to hold her amidst the storms of life.
(She still waits.)
