SUFFRAGE.

	But it is said that our election processes are
unfit for her partaking. I suppose that is
largely true. I suppose the violence or the
cheating which prevail in some parts of this
country, and which have their allies and
apologists in other parts of the country, are
totally inconsistent with the purity and th


delicacy of women. They are totally incon-
sistent also with the honor and honesty of men.
	We propose when woman suffrage is estab-
lished, if not before, to put an end to these
things. I should not like to have any lady of
my household jostled by the rough crowd in
the criminal parts of a great city, or cast her
vote through a shutter of a beer shop. I do
not think that I ought to be asked or com-
pelled to be exposed to the same thing myself.
But I can not see why we can not easily
change all these things where they exist, so
that a woman can go to the polls as comfort-
ably and agreeably as she goes to church.
The Australian ballot, where it has been in-
troduced, has gone far to accomplish all this
already.
	But I believe that the Republic will never
reach the lofty ideal of the conception of our
fathers; it will never attain the high moral
quality which will be alike its strength and its
safety, until that quality shall be given to it
by the help and co-operation of woman. She
who

	"Stays all the fair young planet in her hands."

will then contribute all her full share to what-
ever of glory or honor shall be found in our
story. The moral temperament, which de-
termines permanently the history of any com-
munity, is given to it by its women. Whether
it be true, as physiologists tell us, that as a
rule the mental and moral qualities of chil-
dren come from the mother and the physical
only from the father, it is at least true that
children learn to follow what is excellent in
the example of their fathers from the teaching
of their mothers. If our children in future
generations are to imitate whatever there has
been of heroism in their ancestors; if they are
to love their country; if they are to be brave,
free, generous, gentle, they must learn the
lesson as their fathers learned it at their
mother's knee. No nation, no city, no house-
hold ever took a lofty place, where the influ-
ence of woman did not inspire it with the
heroic temper. But this influence can only be
exerted by woman to its fullest extent when
she shares the responsibility, and takes her
proper and fair part in the conduct of the
State which she is to influence.


