KIRTLAND.

	In the early days of the Church in Kirtland the
Latter-day Saints were generally very zealous in
good works, and very united; they were as
humble as little children, and loved one another
with that peculiar love that the Gospel always
creates, inspires and fosters; and they were de-
sirous of being united, and on an equality one
with another, so that no feeling of disunion should
arise on account of position or circumstance.
	At that period in the history of this people the
organization now known as the Relief Society,
had not been thought of, but the spirit of minist-
ering to those who were in need of either tem-
poral or spiritual help seems to have pervaded the
hearts of the Saints who were possessed of means
and they gave liberally of their substance. Re-
cently some of these things have been recalled to
mind, and the sayings of Bishop Newel K.
Whitney and his venerable wife, who were among
the first baptized into the Church in Kirtland
have come vividly to the writer. Do the
Latter day Saints in this day need to be reminded
that they are all of one great family, and that the
Lord is not a respector of persons, because of
wealth or station; but the humble and meek ones
though poor and in straitened circumstances are
as near to Him as the rich, and popular, and the
learned, who are wise in the things of the world.
Wealth brings with it greater responsibility, for
we understand men and women are only stewards
over these things in this world for the good of
humanity, therefore the wise steward remembers
to put his wealth to good usury, that he may
render a good account to the Great Master when
he shall appear before Him.
	This season of the year when the weather is
cold and work is scarce in many places, and
countries, there is great need of Charity that dis-
penses gifts to the poor and distressed, but here
the people are and have been greatly blest in this
respect and there are few who suffer for want of
the necessaries of life; but there are many cir-
cumstances that are sorrowful and distressing
even when well supplied with substantial comforts,
of these things all are aware and yet many are
neglectful in remembering to do little kindnesses,
and extending sympathy and love when it might
be a stay and solace to the lonely and sorrowing
ones, whose lot in life is not a path of roses, and
who have not been favored by ties and associa-
tions of kindred and friends upon whom they
can lean, for guidance and tenderness at all times.
Blessed indeed are those who are thus surrounded
even though the home is lowly for where love
abounds and binds together human hearts, there
is true happiness.
	Among the Saints gathered as they are from
many lands and of many families, there are many
lonely ones; we often hear the remark, "I am

[Column 2]

here alone," or "l am the only one of all my
father’s house who has received the Gospel,"
these sayings are common, and then there are
many aged and widows and orphans, and many
infirm and afflicted who need kindness, comfort
and sympathy. In a word they need love, the
love that the Gospel teaches, the love spoken of
in John, where the Savior said, "This is my com-
mandment that ye love one another." In the
world and surrounded with temporal cares one is
apt to lose sight of the little duties and get
swallowed up completely, as it were, in what is
seemingly of greater importance and yet it is not
really so, and it is good to be reminded of the
tender charities and ministrations of our Savior
that we may do the works He did, that we may
grow more like Him.
	The incident to which we alluded in the first
paragraph of this editorial, we will give here now
in the words of Sister Whitney, as she herself re-
lated it and after it was written, she approved it
and said to the writer, "that is as near as I can
remember." At this later time we wish most
sincerely that we had taken more, and no doubt
had she been minutely questioned, she could have
recalled other facts in this connection.
	That which we give here was published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT in No's. 9 and 11. Vol. 7.,
dated Oct. 1. and Nov. 1, 1878, under the title "A
Leaf From an Autibiography."
	"We had always been in the habit of entertain-
ing our friends and acquaintances generously
and hospitably, but after we received the Gospel,
we did not feel like using our means and time in
a way that would only benefit those who had an
abundance of this world's means. According to
our Savior's pattern and agreeably to the Prophet
Joseph's and our own ideas of true charity and
disinterested benevolence, we determined to make
a 'Feast for the Poor,' such as we knew could not
return the same to us; the lame, the halt, the
aged, and infirm."
	'This Feast lasted three days, during which
time all in the vicinity of Kirtland who would
come were invited, and entertained as courteously
and as generously as if they had been able to ex-
tend hospitality instead of receiving it. The
Prophet Joseph and his two Counselors being
present each day, talking, and blessing, and com-
forting the poor by words of encouragement and
their most welcome presence; some are now liv-
ing who were present at that Feast; and many
have passed behind the vail."
	"The Prophet Joseph often referred to this
particular Feast, during his life-time, and testified
of the great blessing he felt in associating with the
meek and humble ones whom the Lord has said
"He delights to own and bless." He often said
to me that it was preferable and far superior to
the elegant and select parties he afterwards at-
tended and afforded him much more genuine sat-
isfaction; and to me it was 'a feast of fat things,'
indeed, a time of rejoicing never to be forgot-
ten."
	These words of "Mother Whitney" as we love
to call her, are simple but expressive and the
spirit of them seems even now to testify of her.
She has told the writer many little things that
transpired in those early days that are not set
down in the books so to speak, and in fact are
not on record anywhere except it be as they are
engraven on memory's tablets in the mind of
those who participated therein, or have heard them
from the lips of the Prophet and those associated
with him. Those who were intimately associated
and acquainted with the Prophet, are fast pass-
ing away, and ere long there will be none, who
knew him personally.
	Another generation has come, and many of them
gone since the days of Kirtland, and those who
are aged now were children at the time when the
circumstance transpired which is recorded here.
The only ones we remember hearing speak of it

[Column 3]

were Bishop Whitney and wife, Sister Eliza R.
Snow and Brother and Sister Billings and these
have passed away; but no doubt there are others.
	According to the remembrance of the writer
this Feast was held soon after the Prophet
Joseph and Bishop Whitney's return from the
Eastern Cities and States, whither they went pre-
vious to the completion of the Kirtland Temple,
but the exact date or even the time of the year,
we have been unable to find.


