OF WOMAN.

This little sphere, in pristine youth, 
	Tho’ to perfection nearly brought
Still something lacked, to make, in sooth,
	That perfect home the Maker sought.

Transplanted from the realms above,
	Adam, of godly form and mind,
Reigned o’er his kingdom new, with love,
	Yet longed for that he could not find. 

With sympathy the Architect
	Divined his cause of dire distress—
And sent an helpmeet to perfect, 
	His earthly peace and happiness.

A helpmeet mind you not a slave;
	A queen, a priestess if you will:
With him to stand, with him to brave,
	Whate’er betide of good or ill.

Though to perfect a noble plan,
	She fell from favor; Grace Divine
With justice free, removed the ban
	And bade her found a royal line.

"Thy seed,’’ take note, the woman's seed.
	"Thy seed shall crush the serpent’s head;”
By her enslaved—by woman freed!
	Mankind to life e'er-lasting led.

Descended David's royal line,
	Mary, thrice blest of all thy sex;
We count thy mission all divine,
	And to thy cause ourselves annex!
 
The cause of woman! Her to raise
	To equal plane with brother man,
As helpmeet, friend; with meed for praise,
	According to the great, first plan.
JULIA A. MACDONALD.
Dec. 30, 1891.


[Column 1]
﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.
VII.
	The morning dawned dull and heavy, after
that eventful evening when Lady Walton, the
proud aristocrat had stolen into the grounds
of her former lover, and for many years bitter
enemy, to intercede for her darling son at his
particular request. The young man believed
that had it not been for the interposition of
his sweetheart’s prudish cousin all would have
gone on well with him but she had raised an
[Column 2]
insurmountable barrier, had watched her
cousin, followed her wanderings in the green
fields and shady groves, and had intercepted
the letters, and closed the doors of the old
castle against him. Something must be done
he was in despair, he appealed to his mother
for he knew full well her intense love and de-
votion to him would give her the necessary
courage "to beard the lion in his den;" but he
knew not what he was asking, he was not
aware when he entreated her to go to Sir Ed-
ward and use her persuasive eloquence, of the
hatred between the two families;he had supposed
that the Baronet's idiosyncracies were the cause
of the estrangement between Sir Edward and
his neighbors, as none of the gentle folks round
about were on intimate terms at the Castle.
Sir Edward and his daughter lived in such ex-
clusive retirement that little was known of his
home life.
	When Lady Walton decided to go and ask
Sir Edward's permission for her son
to visit there as Lady Anna's suitor, she felt
no apprehension of her clandestine visit being
discovered,she knew her own purity of motive,
and her husband was away on business, and
was not expected to return for some days, and
she had no forebodings of evil on his account.
In fact though he had been very jealous the
first few years of their married life. he had
never had the slightest occasion to mistrust
her fidelity in thought, word or deed.
	Lady Walton gave her orders to the coach-
man and he drove rapidly across the bleak
strip of country that lay between the estate of
Sir Edward and her own, on that night after
the painful and embarrassing interview, and
reached the Hall almost immediately after her
husband's unexpected return; in fact she had
noticed a carriage a short distance from their
gateway, but had not observed it closely, so
much was she absorbed in her own thoughts;
she was therefore much disconcerted when on
entering the hallway she found a gentle-
man's traveling bag and wraps, and was met
by her maid, who informed her that his lord-
ship had just arrived and finding her from
home, had inquired whither she had gone, and
was met by the reply, that they did not know;
he had found the young master and questioned
him. Lady Walton was in a quandary,
'what had Maitland told his father how could
she ascertain?" but she did not have long to
consider, for the impatient husband having
heard the carriage wheels sent word for her to
come up to his room, she threw off the cloak
and vail she had worn as a sort of disguise to
conceal her features,and hurriedly entered her
husband's presence, not like one who feared
him, but with a face beaming with smiles and
greeting him most affectionately said, "Dear
Henry how delighted I am to see you, I was
thinking how lonely I should be here tonight,
and now all my fears are dispelled, but are
you not well, that you have come so soon?"
Lord Walton had been uncomfortable and in
fact annoyed when he found his wife out on
his coming home, as most men are, for how-
ever uncertain the coming may be, men always
anticipate the wife waiting for them, and she
had entirely disarmed him of any complaining
by her sweet manner and self-possession. All
his misapprehensions vanished and he
answered her question as he would have done
had he found her sitting alone with her needle-
work.
	Later on in the evening he noticed how


[Column 1]

quiet she seemed and taking her in his arms
he looked into her face and said "Helen have
you been crying, your eyes are heavy and
swollen, is there anything the matter? Are
you not glad I am safe at home once more?,'
She answered him confidently, "Yes Henry I
am truly glad you are here again in our own
happy home-nest, I think I am not very well,
your coming is indeed opportune, for I am in
some anxiety about our boy, he is restless and
dissatisfied and needs a change." The father
loved his son with a pride as great, and as deep
as such a man could, but it was the pride of
name, of rank of honors, not the tender love
that seeks the true happiness of the beloved
object.
	He knew that in him the hope of succession
to title, wealth and estates centered when he
should pass away. Like Sir Edward with
Anna he thought him still a child, and now
when his mother had spoken of him; he laughed,
"foolish, fond, over fond mother," he said, "why
the boy is well I have seen him tonight, and
strange enough now I remember he spoke
similarly of you, said you needed a change,
was restless, had gone for a drive across the
country, and when I asked why he had al
lowed you to go alone, replied it was your
own wish to go unattended. It struck me
curiously at the moment I confess, but when
I heard you come in directly after I forgot
everything in the joy of meeting." Lady
Walton was relieved, she knew now the excuse
that had been made for her absence, and she
realized that she must make some further ex-
planation. The servant announced supper and
Lady Walton ordered it brought up here,
for she was weary and troubled, strive to dis-
guise it as she might. She was glad even of
this little break in the conversation, it gave
her time, and her head ached and her temples
throbbed painfully, she wondered at herself
that she could bear up at all.
	Finally she asked "Henry how did you
find your business in London, was everything
satisfactory? Did you see any of our friends
there or were you too much occupied?" "I
saw very little, did not make any calls, but
heard a piece of news that surprised me greatly
in which you may possibly take some interest,
it was about Sir Edward Hilliard, our old
neighbor over there, I saw his lawyer, Burke
of the firm of Burke and Hemenway, he told
me the story, and all about the family; we who
live almost within a stones's throw know less
about our neighbor's affairs than those at a
distance, you know the old saying. Helen 'go
from home to hear the news,' well it proved
true in this case, for I was not aware the
Baronet kept up such an elaborate establish-
ment."
	At the name of Sir Edward, Lady Walton
had trembled, but as her husbaud rattled on she
gradually recovered herself, so much so as to
inquire with self-complacency, what this
strange story was about, and her husband who
was now busy with his supper, stopped to tell
her what he had heard; the substance of which
was, that as the old gentleman had been so
penurious, he had managed to save quite a sum
of money, but had been seriously ill recently
and had made his will, for he had no son and
was fearful lest his daughter should on coming
into possession of the estate, be induced to ac-
cept the hand of some fortune-hunter, etc., be-
sides added the speaker he never has cared for
the daughter and he wanted some other dis-
posal made of a portion of his means while he
was of sound mind, for it is said, he might die
at any moment or lose his mind, he goes into
such violent paroxysms of passion whenever
he is crossed in any thing; his sister died not
long ago, did you know her Helen?" but with-
out waiting for his wife to reply to his question
continued "she married a poor man, a clergy-
man, I think named Conway, they lived in

[Column 2]

Hampton somewhere, and he brought his
niece back with him after the funeral, a deuced
clever young woman, Burke tells me, a fine
manager, and a capital nurse, and the cranky
old man is quite taken up with her, thinks he
can't do without her at all, in fact he is going
abroad, and intends to take her with him."
	"And his daughter too?" inquired Lady
Walton as unconcerned as possible. "O, I sup-
pose so, but his friends say he has no affection
for her never has had, he was so disappointed
when she was born because she was not a boy.
I can't blame the old fellow though I think
I should have been wofully disappointed if our
first had been a girl, and especially now as
there seems no prospect of any more."
	A lull in the conversation followed and the
supper table was cleared, when the door was
closed after the servants, Lady Walton and
her husband talked a little of trifles, home
matters of no particular importance and
the lady began to feel as if she must speak of
Maitland to his father knowing that on the
following day he was to go to the Baronet, and
that as his father had just returned, he would
wonder at his leaving home. Very little more
was said that evening and Lady Walton had
no opportunity of mentioning Maitland except
in a casual way, but she expressed herself
quite enthuiastically on the subject alluded to
by her husband concerning male heirs; for
although she lived long ago she held the
opinion that girls should inherit equally with
boys; in this she was in advance of her time,
and yet she knew that no such advantages of
education were given to girls as the other sex
enjoyed. She was somewhat relieved when
the hour for retiring came, she excused herself
temporarily to get away for a few minutes to
to speak with her boy, knowing how anxious
he would be to know the result of her inter-
view at the Castle. She found him in his
room pacing up and down as men are wont to
do when perplexed or vexed, and related as
briefly as possible what had taken place and
that he was to call on Sir Edward on the
morrow. The young man was elated with
what seemed to him good tidings, but his ardor
cooled when his mother spoke of the probable
difficulty he would have on account of his
father's being at home.
	"I'll be off early and look after some busi-
ness in town and return that way and it will
not take so very long, I hope that the Baronet
will look favorably upon me, and, there is no
reason why he should refuse me is there?"
"Only you are both so young only children,
but good night, and success to you my boy,"
and affectionately embracing each other,
mother and son parted for the night. Lady
Walton's love for her boy amounted almost
to adoration. He was a fine looking specimen
and his gentle blood was easily distinguished
in his manly bearing and magnificent presence.
She knew he could marry the most beautiful
and accomplished lady in the society of which
she herself was a central figure; but this young
creature who had not even made her debut had
so fascinated him, that he had no eyes or ears
for the many dazzling beauties that thronged
the fashionable places where Maitlaud was al-
ways a welcome favorite.
	Lady Walton was a conscientious woman
notwithstanding her love of pleasure and of
popularity, and she queried in her own mind
whether it was right after all to encourage
Maitland in going farther with this affair, now
that his father was at home; she had taken the
initiative step on the impulse of the moment
as it were because of his intercession, but look-
ing at it now in a calmer way, it seemed wrong;
and she slept little that night in consequence.
	The morning found her still undecided as to
what her duty in the matter was, and she was
ill at ease. She wished her husband would
tell her something further of Sir Edward's

[Column 3]

plans, it might open the way, but she had not
the courage to venture upon the matter her-
self, for they had not mentioned his name be-
fore for years, though their lands were not far
apart. Her husband had asked if she knew
Sir Edward's sister, how well she remembered
her, what a lovely character she was, and un-
til now she had not known of her death; it
brought back many tender memories. And
now she knew who this independent young wo-
man was who had obtained the interview for
her, and that had refused to allow Maitland
entrance to the house. "What will she think
of me, this scrupulously exact young woman,"
she asked herself; but it was all in vain she
had no advisor, she was afraid to go to her
husbaud and tried to justify the part she had
taken in the affair. Looking from the window
she saw Maitland ride into the court below
and dismount, she watched him coming toward
the house, his eyes were downward and his
manner thoughtful, she feared he had met with
disappointment; on the way to his mother's room
he encountered his father, she heard their
voices but could not distinguish words, a few
moments later he came up and before Lady
Walton could speak he poured out to her such
a tale, she would fain have silenced him but
her pride forbade her. After listening to his
recital the mother said, you have not told me
Maitland if your visits to Lady Anna are to
be continued or if you even saw her." "No
mother I have not told you, nor do I know
myself, but I saw her for a brief moment,
knowing I was there she waited for me out-
side the gate. Her father will take her to Italy
soon, and mother I must contrive to go there
too." "Poor boy," said his mother despond-
ingly "you must open your heart to your father
I cannot do more, he must know your inten-
tions."
	Meantime all was bustle and noise at the
Castle preparatory to leaving on a long
journey. Jane was as delighted as a child
with the anticipation of travel in a foreign
land, and Lady Anna would have been, but
for her pining and longing for young Walton.
That morning when he came to the house she
had heard her father's voice in loud tones, and
alarmed lest he was too much excited, had in-
quired of his valet who was with him? on being
told it was a dashing, young man she guessed
the rest, though she was not aware of the
stolen visit of the unknown lady the night be-
fore; determined to see him, as well as to ascer-
tain the result of his coming, she wrapped
herself up, and went out into the grounds un-
observed to watch for him. She was utterly re-
gardless of "the proprieties" her cousin Jane
talked of, and when she reached the park
through which she knew he must pass on his
way home, she flew along under the great trees
that swayed and sighed mournfully, filling her
faint heart with vague apprehensions of com-
ing evil.


