DECEMBER 23, 1891.

	This day is the anniversary of the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was faithful to the
last. The Saints know his earthly history, but I
have heard him say we did not know him.
Through the inspiration of God he organized the
Relief Society on the 17th day of March 1842, in
Nauvoo, Hancock Co., Ill., of which I had the
honor of being a member, and a few yet remain to
testify to his words. We also have some written
at the time by our dear Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith which are much appreciated.
	The 17th day of next March it will be fifty
years since, and how shall we best commemorate
the day? The Prophet said, "we did not conceive
the greatness of the work we were laying the
foundation of." The Gospel has blest us in so
many ways, and an unselfish love is a lesson we
are learning but are not yet perfected in; we wish
all to mutually participate in the Jubilee of the
fiftieth year of the Relief Society. We can esti-
mate means donated, but who can sum up the
deeds of kindness and words of love that comfort
the sorrowing and afflicted, that the faithful sisters
have bestowed. Every faithful saint should aspire
to the honor and privilege of doing good, and as
the word Mormon signifies more good, let us con-
tinue to do more. Some blessings are obtained only
by fasting and prayer, in this way our spirits may
be strengthened and health given to continue our
labors, and as great responsibility rest upon the
mothers there is need of union between the
parents; bow the knee to God as a token of
reverence, thank Him for all the blessings of life,
set this example in your household, that the
children may follow it, and thus claim the bless-
ing of happy homes.
	The Relief Society is to help us to
improve in every virtue, love, kindness, humility
and obedience; we go forth to look after the
needy, to strengthen the faith and cheer the
spirits of the sisters, but let me exhort you never
to neglect the children, our precious gifts. May
we be blest with more wisdom in all things. We
can unitedly pray on the 17th of March and re-
turn thanks to God for raising up a Prophet in
our day, to instruct us how to direct our lives


that we may again behold the face of our Father
in heaven, and may we be filled with charity con-
tinually, as these are days of blessings and trials.
	We desire to extend greetings to all the sisters'
gatherings of every branch of the society through-
out the world,that the spirit of God with love and
union, and forgiving all, may permeate every sonl,
and be assured sisters we have nothing to fear
knowing that God rules. May we be true and
faithful, and our fasting and prayer and rejoicing
be acceptable to God, that Zion may prosper.
The humility of the soul is true wealth.
