FIFTY-SECOND CONGRESS. U. S.

	The Congress of the United States assembled
at the Capitol building in Washington D. C.,
on the first Monday in December 1891—in
the Fifty-second Congress which opened at
12 m. The first business before the assembly
was receiving the resignation of Senators Geo.
F. Edmunds of Vermont and John H. Reagan
of Texas, two very influential members of the
Senate. Credentials were received of Charles
N. Felton to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of Senator George Hearst and of
Charles H. Gibson caused by the death of
Ephraim N. Wilson of Maryland, also of
other new Senators.
	The House was called to order by the Clerk
of the preceding Congress, roll called and
house adjourned.
	On the following day Dec. 8, after reports
of various officers the Vice President laid be-
fore the Senate a number of petitions and
memorials, Colorado asks that all public lands
except mineral lands be given to the State.
Montana prays for removal of mineral re-
strictions upon school lands, and both Colorado
and Montana memorialize in favor of Pad-
dock's pure-food bill. The Ladies Missionary
Society of the First United Presbyterian
Church of Kansas City Mo., petition that the
World's Fair may not be opened on Sunday.
New Senators were sworn in and both Call of
Florida and Dubois of Idaho took their seats
though papers had been filed contesting their
places and referred to the Committee on Privi-
leges and Elections. Then names were pre-
sented for Speaker of' the House by their re-
spective parties Charles F. Crisp of Georgia,
Democrat, receiving the highest vote; this
vote shows the Democratic majority in the
House. Quite a number of deaths have oc-
curred according to the vacancies that had to
be filled in the House. W. B. Cochran suc-
ceeds General Spinola of New York, Charles
E. Belknap, Ford of Michigan, John C. Hank,
L. C. Hank of Tenn., John J. Jolley, Gamble
of South Dakota. James Kerr of Penn., was

[Column 2]
 
elected Clerk; In the drawing of seats Ex-
Speaker Reid of Maine, Holman of Indiana
and O'Neill of Penn., were allowed to make
the first selection of places, these gentlemen
having occupied seats there for over fourteen
years.
	Dec. 9, the only business was listening to
the reading of the President's message, when
the House adjourned until Saturday.
	Dec. 10. Six hundred and twelve bills
were introduced in the Senate, No. 1. being
Paddock's bill to prevent the adulteration and
the misbranding of food. General Mandersen
introduced a bill to establish postal savings
banks and to encourage small savings. Mr.
Sherman to establish a public health depart-
ment. Mr. Voorhees to erect a statue in the
Smithsonian grounds to Robert Dale Owen.
Mr. Peffer to amend the naturalization and
immigration laws. Mr. Plumb to grant a pen-
sion to members of the State militia of Kansas
who are incapacitated for manual labor. A
large number of religious bodies presented
petitions asking that the Worlds Fair be
closed on Sunday. A number of petitions ask
for the prohibition of the slave and rum traffic
on the Congo.
	Dec. 14, Bills of importance introduced into
the Senate; Sen. Squires to erect a monument
to Gen. U. S. Grant at Washington; Sen.
Hale to establish a permanent census office;
Sen. Mitchell to prohibit absolutely Chinese
from coming into the United States whether
Chinese subjects or not; Sen. Frye to provide
for a commission on the alcoholic liquor traffic;
Sen. Manderson to provide for the survey of
Alaska.
	Dec. 15, Bills introduced, Sen. Morrill to
endow Howard University, to erect a bronze
statue of Prof. Baird, of the Smithsonian; to
erect a bronze statue of Columbus in Wash-
ington; Sen. Cullom to amend the interstate
commerce act; Sen. Pettegrew to furnish
rations for the G. A. R. at its next annual
convention in Washington. Sen. Mitchell for
the development of silk culture.
	During the week before Christmas the
House was in session only a part of the time
and was occupying itself mostly with the dis-
position of committees.
	Many petitions for closing the World's Fair
on Sunday were received, two of them from
Congregational Churches, New Gloucester, Me.
and Rock Falls, Ill., ask that Congress loan
$5,000 000, to the Fair,conditional upon Sun-
day closing. It is decided the Committee on
World's Fair be known as Committee on
Columbian Exposition.
	Senator Mitchell presented a numerously
signed petition praying Congress to take action
to invite a conference of the governments of the
world to meet during the Columbian Exposi-
tion, to devise, discuss and recommend
measures by which arbitration may be incor-
porated in treaties, international laws har-
monized, an international court established
that shall have jurisdiction in cases which gov-
ernments fail to settle by negogiation.
	Sen. Daniel for the completion of the monu-
ment to Mary the mother of Washington.
	The shaft which is at Fredericksburg dates
back to 1833, owes its origin to Gen. Jackson.
The pedestal is a wreck and the shaft is bullet-
ridden and has suffered still worse from relic
hunters. It is the opinion of notable women,
who should certainly have their opinions
recognized, "that the statue be erected in
Washington, where it may be felt as the prop-
erty of the whole nation, and appreciated by
multitudes.
	Other bills are; to extend privilege of free
postage to historical societies; to purchase S.
W. Price's portrait of Gen. Geo. H. Thomas,
and Wm. Mathew's portrait of Abraham
Lincoln; to provide for the safety of switch-
men, brakemen and engineers. Sen. Cullom


who presented this bill said they had not de-
cided what kind of legislation was necessary,
but this bill was to ascertain if possible life-
saving devices for coupling etc. Sen. Hoar
explained that Mass., had organized the first
railroad commission in this country and this
matter had been considered but they were met
by the fact that the jurisdiction over railroads
engaged in interstate commerce is national
and not a State jurisdiction. Pension bills to
provide for pensioning militia and telegraph
operators engaged with the Union forces in the
civil war.
	Dec. 17, Sen. Stewart made a speech on the
silver question answering the President's objec-
tions to the free coinage. Sen. Dawes pre-
sented a petition of citizens of Mass., signed
by Harriette N. Shattuck President of the N.
A.W. S. A. of that state and many others
praying for the adoption of a sixteenth amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United States
providing for woman Suffrage which was re-
ferred to the Select Committee on Woman
Suffrage.
	The sudden death of Sen. Plumb of Kansas
on Sunday cast a gloom over the Senate ses-
sion on Monday the 21st and when the fact
was announced the Senate took a recess to
allow preparations for the obsequies which
were held at 1:30 p. m. The President and
Cabinet, Diplomatic Corps, members of the
Supreme Court and House of Representatives
were present. The Chaplain read the burial
service of the Lutheran Church and the hymns
"O, Be Ready" and "Nearer Home." The Senate
went in a body to the station and Senators
Peffer Paddock, Dolph, Ransom and Palmer,
with a delegation from the House accompanied
the remains of the dead Senator upon his home-
ward journey.
	Stephen B. Elkins has been confirmed Sec-
retary of war in place of Hon. Redfield
Proctor resigned.


