FAITH, HOPE AND CHARITY.

	Faith Hope and Charity, these three are
one, but the greatest of these is Charity.
	Thus saith the Apostle Paul. The same
Apostle also says "without Faith it is
impossible to please God This saying is
quite consistent, quite reasonable, for without
faith in the promises of God we question His
veracity. To doubt His word and promises
we impute to His character both deceit and
falshood. Is it reasonable that the Creator
aud Ruler of the universe would be pleased
with such unjust imputations? Holy Writ in-
forms us that God is truth that it is impossible
for Him to lie. Why not then—if a believer
in the scriptures—place implicit confidence in
His word and promises contained therein?
also if a believer in the Gospel and work of
the last dispensation, why not give credence
to the promises given through God's servants,
the prophets and patriarchs, ordained and
holding the holy priesthood? surely their
word should be as the word of God unto us;
surely the Lord will not hold us guiltless if we
treat lightly His promises.
	St. Paul said "Abraham believed God and
it was accounted unto him for righteousness,
he staggered not at the promises of God
through unbelief"
	Jesus said, "if ye have faith as a grain of
mustard seed you should say to this mountain
be ye plucked up and cast into the depths of
the sea and it would be done."
	No doubt many—like the Apostles of old—
would exclaim this is a hard saying who can
believe it. But who dare accuse the Redeemer,
the Lord of light and glory, with uttering a
falsehood. All things are possible with God.
The framer and controller of the universe is in
possession of laws,natural laws, which of course

[Column 2]

mortal man has no knowledge of whereby all
things are obedient to His will.
	What is all the wisdom of finite mortals
compared with the Infinite? scarcely a drop in
the vast ocean. What folly then, who
presumes to question the omnipotent power of
the Deity? rather seek for knowledge and
faith coupled with wisdom to comprehend more
of the power and laws of Him whose wonderful
works and power are manifest in all we behold
and which—although incomprehensible to our
narrow,contracted minds is sufficient to silence
the most obstinate sceptic and cause every
rational being to exclaim nothing is impossible
with such immense illimitable power. Why then
doubt any blessing of Divine favor promised
to weak erring mortals? however improbable
or impossible it may appear to our benighted
minds. Especially we who have espoused the
name of Saint, who profess to believe in direct
communication with heaven; such should seek
earnestly for the faith once delivered to the
Saints. Paul said, "faith was the gift of God,
he also said, "He is the same yesterday, to-
day and forever. Therefore it is our privilege
to seek and obtain the faith the ancient Saints
enjoyed the faith of a Daniel and the three
Hebrews, who were cast in the fiery furnace
and many more too numerous to mention. As
the same Priesthood is restored to man with the
same power, the same gifts, and promises it
is our privilege to avail ourselves of the same
blessings.
	The arm of the Lord is not shortened neither
is He slack concerning His promises. The
Apostle said, "covet the best gifts."  Now
if faith is not the best gift it certainly seems
the most essential for us in these days of
tribulation, judgments, and persecution.
These, are the days of the Lord's controversy
with the world, and the adversary is sowing
the seeds of disease and death broadcast
throughout the entire Universe. Diseases new
and terrible, baffling the skill of human
wisdom laying low the infant and the aged; no
earthly power is adequate to grapple with
the various and dire diseases which are
bursting forth from time to time,and wrest its
victims from the power of the grim destroyer.
	Therefore we can realize the necessity of
that which is attainable through faith in the
promises of the Gospel.
	They are a glorious heavenly boon proffered
on conditions of obedience to the requirements
of the fulness of the Gospel, without money
and without price, whereby we may be able
through the gift of faith to wrest from an
untimely grave our loved ones and prolong
our own existence also. It is not only the
privilege of the Saints but a duty, we owe to
our children, for are they not the Lord's
heritage? how very precious then should they
be in our care. Pure, innocent spirits right
from the bosom of the heavenly parent, com-
mitted to our charge to preserve their
lives and rear them to love, honor and
reverence His holy name and walk in the
paths of truth and righteousness. Thus might
we have the unspeakable satisfaction of return-
ing them to their Heavenly Father unsullied
and without blemish, saying here Father are
the heavenly gems intrusted to my charge; and
receive with what ineffable joy the divine
plaudit, "well done good and faithful servant
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."
	Hope is also a great blessing which we
should ardently seek for, it should be cultivated
and cherished by every individual, without it
we could not endure the various and almost
unmentionable ills,that beset us at nearly every
turn throughout life's thorny pathway. Hope
is the boon of every son and daughter of afflic-
tion and can be cultivated to a great extent in
order to sustain us under the many trying
vicisistudes we are called to pass through. It

[Column 3]

is an old adage but a true one, "if it was not
for hope the heart would break. 
	Pual speaking of hope says, "faith is the
substance of things hoped for, the evidence of
things not seen."
	He further says, "by faith we stand and re-
joice in the hope of the glory of God." He
also says, "tribulation worketh patience, and
patience experience, and experience hope, and
hope maketh not ashamed." Yet there is
quite a difference between faith and hope.
	Hope according to Webster is a desire with
expectation.
	Faith in God and His promises is a desire
with an as urance of obtaining. Yet faith
without works is dead," so sayeth the Apostle
Paul. St. James also says, "Abraham was
justified by works, when he offered his son
Isaac upon the altar; thus by works was faith
made perfect." Paul says "though he had all
faith so he could remove mountains and had
not charity he was nothing." "Charity never
faileth, suffereth long and is kind, is not puffed
up,seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked,
thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not iniquity, but re-
joiceth in the truth."
	Much more might be said in regard to
charity, but it is evident it does not exist only
in giving to the poor, for Paul said, "though
he bestowed all his goods to feed the poor; and
had not charity he was nothing. There is
one kind of charity which is very essential
for us all to cultivate. It is charity in over-
looking the faults and weaknesses of one
another. It is too much the habit to judge
others, as the saying is, by our own standard.
	Such judgment is not just. We cannot
understand all the surroundings of our fellow-
beings, we know not the circumstances and
temptations with which they may have been
environed. Instead of judging let us rather
thank God that He has preserved us and ours
from such faults and follies, and reach out to
our brother, or sister the helping hand and
assist and encourage them to reform. In so
doing we will show our faith by our works.
Otherwise if we denounce those who err, and
stand aloof from them, saying in our hearts
I am better than thou, the Lord may bring us
into circumstances that will show us our own
weaknesses.
	Thus it is quite important to cultivate a
spirit of humility and charity to all poor fallen
humanity.
	Therefore beloved sisters, contend earnestly
for the faith, gifts, and graces of the Gospel,
which were once delivered to the Saints. They
will prove a bulwark in every time of need.
in the hour of affliction when the sombre
clouds of despondency close around you and
the evil genius of despair stands ready to
clutch your heartstrings, then will they, like
so many sentinels at their post be ready to
come to your relief, with the balm and gentle
influence of the spirit of the Gospel, and in a
still, small voice rebuke the demon of despair
and command him to depart.
	Like the rays of the morning sun after a
dark and tempestuous night, will the effulgent
rays of peace and the spirit of God illuminate
your soul and dispel the clouds of despond-
ency. They will also prove an anchor to the
soul 'mid every stormy blast when tossed to
and fro on the turbulent ocean of life. Like 
a beacon of light in the darkness they will
guide and pilot you into port, like a lamp to
the feet illuminate the straight and narrow
path, that leads to the beautiful haven or
eternal peace and rest.
