DEAR EDITOR:
	Noting you wish to hear other views upon
those articles on the Woman Suffrage question
given in the Exponent of Nov. 15th, I will
give my opinion as it occurred or rather was
presented to my mind, but think probably be-
fore this you have heard from those who are
better able to treat upon this to me interesting
subject. I was proud to hear from such an
observer as D. P. Felt, upon this question and
consider his ideas very good treating upon
Mother's sphere and her ability to do good,
and her God-given right to stand side by side
with her husband in all that pertains to theirs
and their children's welfare, and I say chil-
dren's children and humanity generally and
she should have a voice in making the laws
that are to govern her and her family and to
be privileged to cast her vote for the President
of the nation whose citizen she is woman is
capable of exerting great good, we can see
what she has done, is doing, and is likely to
do.
	I differ a little from D. P. F. in thinking
that woman has not already laid a good
foundation for the emancipation of her sex.
it may not be of such massive proportions as
we are sanguine it will attain to, but it is
nevertheless constructed, and upon a firm
basis for are we not living in a dispensation of
the fulness of times when God has revealed
himself and all that was lost is being restored,
on reliable ground? did not the Prophet Joseph
turn the key showing wherein woman can be
exalted with her husband and work just as
intelligently?
	Not wishing to trespass too much upon the
columns of our paper I will briefly refer to
the communication of Mrs. Etta L. Gilchrist,
which plainly sets forth what has been
achieved by the united effort of women in this
the nineteenth century see if a pretty solid
foundation has not already been established
towards freeing woman from the shackles of
benighted ages, and placing her where her
light can shine; the main branches fruitful
with leaves opening in various fields and avo-
cations for her further advancement; the read-
ing and cultured woman knows her proper
place by intuition and natural instinct; if her
brother will only take her by the hand she
knows where to plant her footprints.
	The work has begun and in an enlightened
age, that is to revolutionize the world and
contempary mankind man is not without the
woman nor the woman the man in the Lord
Notice what has been accomplished by women
in the United States and elsewhere, and you
cannot convince me it has been done without a
foundation, read the statistics in Mrs. Gil-
christ's article and find that a firm foundation
is laid and the structure surely being erected
that other generations can add to and substan-
tiate, that will reflect credit upon this our age
we are to go on to perfection, laying one stone
upon another until the perfect day hoping to
hear from others upon this important and
never to be lessened project.
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
			M. A. T.
	Provo, Dec. 7th, 1891.


