	EDEN WARD.
	Minutes of the Relief Society organization
of Liberty, Weber Co., held in the Liberty
school house Aug. 14, 1891. Pres: Jane S.
Richards presiding on the stand were Sister
Harriet Brown first counselor to Sister
Richards, also Josephine R. West Pres. of the
P. A. of Weber Co., and her counselor Eliza-
beth Y. Stanford, Sister Mamie M. Richards
Pres, of the Second Ward Primary, Ogden,
Brother Richards, Bishop Ferren and Martha
Ferren were also there.
	Meeting opened by singing “Come, come ye
saints.” Prayer by Joshua Judkins, singing
“Hail to the brightness." Sister Richards
said “my dear sisters I am glad we have come
up here to the end of Ogden Valley to or-
ganize a Relief Society, I feel glad that you
have such a nice looking place up here, your
crops are looking nice you must feel thankful
that you have no saloons up here When we
go to meeting in Ogden or Salt Lake we don’t


know half of the people. I do hope the sisters
feel united here in this place; do all you can
and the Lord will bless you, I have been go-
ing to a Relief Society in Ogden in which all
sects are joined, their meetings are a matter of
business, to see after the poor.
	I told them if they saw any of our
poor to let us know, we did not wish them to
take care of our poor for we had plenty to take
care of them; you must try and have your
meetings as often as you can, I think you
should have your meetings every two weeks,
and if you have them regular the Lord will
bless you;” made other good remarks and gave
good advice to all.
	Sister Brown said, this is a great deal
larger place than I thought it was, I am glad
to hear that you are going to organize a society
here, made a few good remarks, asking the
Lord to bless us all.
	Brother Richards, “I feel delighted in meet-
ing with you this morning, I can tell by your
looks that you are feeling well your duty is to
attend your meetings, so as you can speak to
one another, and before you go to meeting
ask the Lord to help you, and when you go
home you can work with less trouble, and be-
determined to come to your meetings and the
Lord will bless you; I have seen the time
when the sisters used to have such good
meetings that the brethren were jealous of
them. Brethren hitch up your teams go with
them to meeting and help them along as much
as you can, let me tell you brethren they be-
long to the Church as much as you do, and
have a right to administer to the sick. I
must not take any more of the time so I will
give way asking the Lord to bless you, Amen.”
	Bishop Joseph Ferren, I was at a Relief
Society a few months ago in Eden there were
some sisters from here, they said they would
like to have a Relief Society in Liberty so that
they could attend meeting oftener, so we in-
vited Sister Richards to come and organize a
Society, and after the organization if there is
any feelings go and make things right.
	Sister Richards said it had been moved and
seconded that Sister Mary A. Judkins be Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Liberty, a full
vote was given; moved and seconded that
Sisters Mary A. Chard and Mary Campbell be
her Counselors, full vote; moved and seconded that
Sister Mary A. Ferren be Secretary, full
vote; moved and seconded that Sister Christina
Marshall be Treasurer, full vote.
	Sister Martha Ferren of Eden, said “I am
glad to be with the sisters today, we shall try
to meet with you in some of your meetings as
often as we can.”
	Sister Mary A. Judkins,“I was surprised for
the sisters to call on me to act as president,
but with the help of the Lord I will try and
do the very best I can, and we will try and
have our meeting next Thursday at 2 o’clock.
Singing “How will the saints rejoice to tell.”
Benediction by James Ferren.
	P. S. We are holding our meetings every
Thursday at 3 o’clock.
	MARY A. JUDKINS, Pres.
