505 Gail A. Jorgensen ¢ The sound came again, sharp like the sound of. A gun. I paused, while loading my arms with fruit bottles to carry into the basement, to listen. I told myself, it must be my imagination. If anyone was outside, Rags would be barking his head off. I will just take the rest of these bottles into the basement before I go looking to see what is wrong, I thought. If I stop now I may not get them downstairs for some time. It surely can't be anything or Rags would be barking. I picked up the last bottle from the floor, and started back down the basement stairs. Halfway down, I paused, remembering. Rags had been barking. His bark had sounded muffled and far off from the basement. | I put my armload of bottles down on the stairsteps and started back upstairs to investigate. A heavy footstep sounded on the porch. The kitchen door crashed into the wall. Footsteps crossed the kitchen and entered the living room. Paul never slams doors, I 506 thought. Besides, he went to town for milker parts. He can't possibly be back this early. It is. Too early for the school bus. It will not be here for another hour. A feeling of apprehension filled me with fear. Goose flesh covered my arms, and my spine was pricked by a cold chill. I stepped backwards down the steps. The footfalls grew fainter as the intruder searched through the boys' room. I knew where he was, for I could hear the closet doors bang. Realizing that in a few moments our bedroom, where the trap door to the basement was located, would be entered, I moved instinctively. Reaching up, I undid the leather thong that held the trap door upright against the wall. Holding the door with both hands, I backed slowly downwards, lowering the door into place, where it became part of the floor above me. Automatically, I snapped out the electric light globe. It is lucky he didn't come into this room first, I thought. In the semidarkness, I moved cautiously back into the basement until the fruit shelves on the east wall let me know I had gone as far as I could go. I felt along the - shelves until I reached the southeast corner. Moving a stack of bushel baskets away from the corner, I made a place for me to hide. Gradually my eyes became accustomed to the eerie half-light the small window in the west wall allowed. That window is awfully small. We need more light down here. Still we were lucky to have room enough for even one this size when we dug this basement. Old houses don't take easily to remodeling, I mused, while my ears searched diligently for any sound upstairs. Overhead, I heard the footsteps return to the kitchen. A masculine voice said, ''Nothing in there. Keep a sharp lookout while I search the rest of the house." The words of the morning's news commentator came vaguely back. "Two convicts have broken out of the penitentiary. One guard dead. These men are dangerous." It can't be they. We are a long way from the penitentiary, my thoughts protested, while admitting to myself that this is the day of fast cars. My reflections were cut short by a squeaking hinge on the bedroom door above. The feet advanced to the wall closet. Hangers squealed as they were shuffled about. Then a man's gruff laugh sounded. A second pair of feet hurried across the floor to join the first. Mentally, I could see our guns Trapped racked up on the back wall of the closet. On the shelf above were our boxes of shells. There was a good deal of chuckling going on overhead. Suddenly, the floor door creaked and light from the room above fell on the basement steps. "Well, what do you know, a ready-made hiding place." A man's feet began descending the stairs. One foot struck some bottles of fruit I had left on the steps. The bottles rolled and thumped their way to the bottom of the steps. "Someone left bottles on the steps." "Ain't no need of you going down there. It's just a fruit cellar. When the door's down it's a floor. You close and open it from the top. Won't be nobody down there,' a second voice said. The feet hesitated. I held my breath. "'Close the door. Ain't no need of us hiding anywhere. We'll wait up here where it is comfortable and catch the family when they come home. With them as hostages, we can make our plans later. Maybe even make them drive us clear out of the country." "Say, that's right. They won't even know we are here till they walk in on us. I'll go hide that dog we shot. Dead dogs tell no tales if they can't be seen."' Chuckling, he let the door drop back into place. The feeling of relief, at being unnoticed, was quickly replaced by a greater fear. Poor Rags! Then, as the helplessness of our position became clear, I thought, poor us! My thoughts began to race— hostage, my family for a hostage! How can I warn them without giving my hiding place away? This window is away from the road, so I cannot hope to attract anyone's attention. The boys will be coming home on the school bus within an hour. Paul won't be home till later. It is up to me to protect the boys, but what can I do? One thing I was sure of, I would have to warn the boys, but how? Feeling my way carefully, lest I trip over some unseen object, I made my way to the window. It was new pinewood, freshly painted, a proud addition to our new basement. The cement wall we had added fit the window like a glove. The metal chain that let the window fall forward, for ventilation, was securely fastened to the frame. If I had a knife or something to work with—all the tools were upstairs in their cabinet. We had stated, firmly, that the basement was too damp for tools. A feeling of complete helplessness engulfed me, defeated before starting, because I had nothing with which to work. I leaned against the cement wall, and tears of rage and hopelessness cruised silently down my cheeks. IT hung onto the window, tried pulling and shoving, to no avail. The screen would have to be cut. All I could see were fruit jars and empty baskets. I had to have a knife. A knife? A sudden tap on the stair frame, and I held the jagged top of a fruit jar in my hand. I felt on the floor for pieces. They were sticky and slick with fruit juice. Upending the fruit baskets on 508 each other to make a platform of sorts, enabled me to get closer to the window screen. Pushing with all my strength, I drew the jagged edge of glass across the screen. The screen gave a low sigh of protest, not loud, but definitely a sound. I would have to chance their not noticing the noise. Again and again, I drew the glass edges over the wire. The glass crumbled away in glass sawdust. The screen took on a shine from the repeated rubbings. Seconds ran away with themselves, while minutes seemed to drag. I worked on, not daring to think of time, nor of its passing. The blood from my cut fingers mingled with the fruit juice and made the glass hard to hold. Just as I despaired of ever getting out, I noticed a tiny hole, a hole which grew larger as I rudely forced the jagged glass into it. Gradually, the hole grew large enough to let me stick my thumb out. "Heavenly Father, help me," I prayed. "I have to get out faster than this." I had no idea how long I had been working. It seemed like ages. I grabbed the screen to tear it. My hands slipped off, leaving a bloody smear. Why, I am bleeding, I thought. Funny you could cut yourself and not really notice it. The hopelessness of my situation hit me with full force, and I sank to the floor and buried my face in my hands. I prayed silently, but the feeling of relief and hope did not come. Shifting my weight on cramped legs, I put my hand on the floor to steady myself. A cold thin object touched my fingers, the broken blade of a hacksaw. In my mind's eye, I saw our nine-year-old son's woebegone face. "I was being awfully careful, Daddy." Then I heard his Daddy's reply as he inserted a new blade in the saw for his son, "Well, try a little harder." He ruffled up the tousled hair before he turned back to finish the basement window. The six-inch piece of blade made short work of the screen. A few moments longer, and the chain was in two pieces. It took a great deal of effort to pull me up through the window. Halfway out, I froze. The sound of our old truck starting, sounded loud in my ears. I lay there, half in, half out, my hands grasping the dirt in front of me for support. "Hey, we don't have to wait for anybody. There is a key in this truck." "Get back in here," called a sharp voice. "We wouldn't get anywhere before somebody would report it stolen. Come on, here comes a." Then I heard it, the school bus, its motor pulling heavily as it climbed the hill to our place. With superhuman effort, I pulled myself free and stood up. I heard the kitchen door slam. The bus turned into our drive. The door opened and the largest boy stepped out. Then I was running and screaming, "'Get back in. Get back in!" across the lawn, directly in line of a shot, should they choose to shoot. "Get in!' I shoved in the startled boy, and noticed the bloody smear I left on his jacket. "Get in, and hurry and go." I sank down on the bus floor and Trapped pulled a little schoolgirl off the seat into my lap. "You children get down off the seats; they might shoot." _ There was a great grinding of gears and racing of the motor, as the startled bus driver seemed to get the gearshift into all the gears at once. The bus backed slowly out of the drive, then shot forward down the road, the bus door still partly open. "Somebody had better tell Paul," I said. "He has gone to town." The roar of the engine sounded deafening in my ears. "I don't believe they are going to shoot," I murmured, and promptly fainted. Somewhere, a long way off, I heard voices. Why, I was in bed! What a nasty dream. I moved restlessly, running my hands up over my face. '"'I have gloves on." A voice said, "She is coming out of it. Everything is fine. A handful of cuts, but mostly shock. She will be all right." "You left the keys in the truck."' The daylight was blinding. "Thank goodness!" Paul said, "The truck is gone." "But your insurance won't cover cases where keys are left in stolen cars." "Old trucks don't move very fast. They will get picked up somewhere. Besides, you're safe, and they aren't holed up in our place any more. We could have wrecked the place getting them out." A feeling of contentment and thanksgiving flooded over me. "I did wreck the basement window." Then I added hastily, "But it is nothing that you cannot fix." 509 510 The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness EDITORIAL The woman whose "'price is far above rubies' (Proverbs 31:10), the costliest gems, ''looketh well to the ways of her household"' (Ibid. 27). For years the Brethren have taught the value of family preparedness. Much emphasis is again being laid upon the need for families to plan the use of their incomes to provide for savings, for storage of food, clothing, and other items necessary to meet any emergency. The conservation and wise use of resources, the need for family members to make the most of educational opportunities, the development of a forward-looking approach to living are constantly being stressed. Women have a role in implementing these teachings as they carry their household responsibilities. Of more value than emeralds is a woman who creatively can plan, with her husband and family, for the present and the future. While family preparedness is in reality a project for the whole family's planning together, with the father in the guiding position, still it is the mother who brings many of the plans to fruition. It is necessary to work the plan that will enable the family to have the security of being prepared to meet what may befall. To use her talents and discover new ones, to bring to the fore her innate abilities and add to them, to listen to words of counsel and implement them, this, too, is the: role of a woman. Of greater desirability than diamonds is the ability to buy wisely. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her..."' (Proverbs 31:11). Frequently, the actual spending of the food and clothing money is entrusted to the wife. While the guidelines for spending are laid in a carefully planned budget, deliberately tailored to the income, needs, and desires of her particular family, she must use wisdom in every expenditure. Family preparedness requires storage of food, clothing, and other items for future use. One of the cardinal rules in storage is that each family decide what to store. Another rule concerns use and replacement, rotation of items to keep them in good condition. A wise woman plans her shopping with these rules in mind. Of more worth than pearls is a woman who ''worketh willingly with her hands"' (Proverbs 31:13), who uses her talents to make her home a heaven and a haven. She who seeks to increase her knowledge of homemaking skills, who learns the basic arts, is prepared to meet the contingencies. Proverbs explains her security in these words, "She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet." | Better than silver or gold is her ability to save. To economize, to be thrifty, to make do, to keep her yearnings within family earnings, bring the goal of being prepared within reach. Often it becomes the lot of the mother to exercise a restraining hand in the matter of acquiring luxuries. A provident housewife is a blessing to her family. Better than the whole galaxy of precious gems and riches is a woman who knows her responsibilities and fulfills them, who uses her capabilities and increases them, who hears the counsel of those in authority and follows it, whose desire is her family's good and she works for it, and who seeks to be a helpmate to her husband and achieves it. L. W. M. Ramona W. Cannon Dr. Patricia Marie Smith of Seattle, Washington, has practiced medicine among the Montagnards of South Viet Nam since 1959. She now operates a forty-bed hospital, and in the past three and a half years more than 12,000 patients have been treated in her hospital, and thousands of ''out patients" have been cared for. Among the Montagnards, she is known as 'Ya Pagang Tih—Big Grandmother of all Medicine."' Dr. Mary I. Bunting, President of Radcliffe College, has a Ph. D. In microbiology, and advocates continuing education for mothers and homemakers. Herself a mother, she believes that home study can be combined successfully with motherhood. She emphasizes the need for trained women in many fields of social service work, and in such positions as members of school boards and in other organizations having influence on the welfare of children. Jean Saubert, former Olympic ski champion, regarded by many as the best woman skiier in American history, is now a schoolteacher in the mountain resort town of Vail, Colorado. A graduate of the University of Utah, and a native of Idaho, Miss Saubert was rated as the second best woman skiier in the world in 1964 by the International Ski Federation. Peggy Fleming, eighteen, Colorado College freshman, won the women's crown at the world figure skating championship events in Vienna, Austria, in . In this second year of her championship award, she won the decision of all nine judges. Berta H. Christensen, a member of the General Board of Relief Society, in April, placed first in the Utah State Poetry Society Annual Book Manuscript Award Contest. Her manuscript, ''Walk the Proud Morning,'' also won the Linnie Fisher Robinson $100 cash award. The book will be published during the summer and will be presented at a poetry concert in Salt Lake City, Utah, in October. Bethany Beardslee, soprano, has won international fame through her premiere performances of vocal works by Stravinsky, Berg, Schoenberg, and Webern. She has ''a superb voice of pure color and lyric inflection." A graduate of the Juilliard School of Music, she has sung with the New York Pro Musica, and the Boston, Minneapolis, and St. Louis symphonies. Her 1966 concerts at Stanford University, California, during the summer, will include a lecture on 'Vocal Techniques for 20th Century Music." Marjorie Merriweather Post May has re-_ ceived medals and awards from six nations and more than thirty associations for her charitable work. Among the recipients of her philanthropies are the Red Cross, the Washington National Symphony, and a number of colleges. She is a world traveler, a horticulturist, and a noted antiquary. She is a daughter of Charles William Post of the famous food company which made the first recipe for Postum (from wheat, molasses, and bran), and developed many other wheat products known throughout the world. Lenora Hansen ¢ The hospital had a large waiting room downstairs, where "Information" sat behind a high marble counter and visitors gathered in groups and were strangers to each other. But, in the little waiting room upstairs, people sat beside each other and smiled and shared case histories and small talk. I remember when the lady with gold hair came in. I was sitting toward the left, on the long couch, thinking that the world outside the hospital seemed muffled and shadowy and that only the world inside seemed real. I was thinking that I felt close to each of these people, whose names I didn't even know, but with whom I shared that little room—the man with the mustache, whose wife had cancer; the lady with gray hair, whose husband was paralyzed; the parents and the grandparents of the child who had had an operation on her throat; and the very young couple, she like a blond child, crying about her baby, and he, with a scant dark beard, trying awkwardly to comfort her. As the lady with the gold hair came in, the father of the girl with the chest case moved to a chair, leaving space on the couch for both the woman and the man who followed her. She sat, not on the couch, but in the chair by the door, apart. She crossed taut, slender legs and laid her hands together in her lap. She sat still and straight. The man who followed moved the remaining chair out of its corner between the long and the short couches, and placed it in the narrow walking space, facing the woman. They seemed withdrawn, as if a blanket of air insulated them from all the others in the room. The man looked at the woman quietly. "Can I...?" "No!" she cut him off—cold and flat. What was it. He had meant to offer? They sat in silence. Conversation resumed around them. After a little time, she stood up and walked out into the hall. He followed. The father of the burn case was telling us how to feed roses to get the largest blooms, when I heard the voice of the Gold Lady again. Her words were knifeedged, like her "'No." "Someone ought to care about me!"' "I care about you," the man answered. "I love you, but both of us have to think about the boy now. After all, you're an adult." '"'Why do I always have to be an adult? Why can't he be an adult for a change? Oh, ['m sorry! I didn't mean that!" Then, more quietly, 'All right, I] am an adult, but what can I do?" "You can sit by his bed and tell him you love him." "And have him laugh in my face?" "You say you love him." "Tt do—I would...." The words seemed earnest and sincere. "'Oh, what's the use!" I found myself straining to hear more of this private conversation, forgetting that it was none of my affair. Only nothing more was said. Finally, the man walked down the hall to the right, toward pediatrics. The woman went with him. It was not until night that I saw the Gold Lady again. At night, the people of the little waiting room went down the hall, to the right or to the left, for a last word with the patients. Then they gathered up their wraps and their magazines, said goodnight and, one by one, went down the elevator. The hospital had given me a pillow. I used my coat for a blanket and slept on the couch, to be near Mike. Mike was only five years old. He lay, burned, in a white room down the hall—a sterile room, where a nurse in a gauze mask was on duty night and day. Visitors were kept outside the room, but someone of the family always stayed in the little waiting room, in case Mike 514 should wake up and be frightened by the strangeness. I went into pediatrics to look at Mike once more, before I lay down. In the doorway of the room directly across from Mike's stood the Gold Lady. Her lips were closed and her stance was rigid, but her eyes held hurt. Since I could not go inside Mike's sterile room, I opened the door a little and stood there while the nurse counted the drops as they went from the bottle into his arm. I watched her put another blanket, tent-like, across the frame that was his bed. I spoke to him, but he didn't know that I was there. When I closed the door and turned again, the Gold Lady was gone. The door where she had stood was open, and the upper half of the wall was glass. The gentle husband sat by the bed and held the hand of a boy that had to be his son. They both had dark hair—the man's receding— the boy's tightly curled. Both had eyebrows that grew out across the nose. The man's nose was long—the boy's half-formed, but they both leaned toward the left. The boy looked to be about eight, the man near thirty-five. They seemed held in silent searching. The man's face was anxious and the boy's withdrawn. I saw pain in the boy's eyes. Then I realized that it was not a physical pain. It was the same hurt that I had seen in the eyes of the Gold Lady. I knew the nurse at the desk, so I stopped and asked her what was wrong with the boy across the hall from Mike. "A car hit his bicycle," she said. '"The doc- tor had to do an operation." "Ts it serious?" The nurse said, "No." Then she looked away and said, ''Yes!" Her eyes came back to mine. 'He shouldn't be serious, but he is. A person has to want to get well." She went back to her bookkeeping, then looked up once more. "The boy is his, but not hers." In the little waiting room, I turned the lights out, took off my shoes and lay down. In the dimness from the hall light, I sensed the couch, beneath me, like mottled moss. The weight of the walls pressed — massive. Three narrow, slatted windows reached up and up, forever. I slept—slept and awoke and slept again—and walked down to stand at the door of Mike's room. I put a sterile gown and mask on about one o'clock and sat with him while the night nurse went down to the cafeteria. As I went back down the hall, a painted elephant looked at me from the wall and swung his trunk over toward a monkey, balancing himself above the open door of room number 213. All the doors in pediatrics were open, except special cases like Mike's that had to be kept sterile, and the upper half of all the walls was glass so that nurses could keep watch over the children. On the wall across from 215 a pink baby hippo winked one eye. Farther on, two tiger kittens tumbled near a striped zebra. Where the camel knelt, I stopped to watch three nurses turn another patient on a frame like Mike's. After that I went back into the waiting room. I lay awake for a long time, wondering about the Gold Lady