QUILTS THAT TELL A STORY Elizabeth Hales Hammond, Springville, Utah, makes original and effective use of form and color in making quilts, then she adds a new dimension——a design that tells a story. For a child's bed, animals appear upon the quilt, or faces of children, dolls, or toys. A ''Nature'' quilt presents birds and flowers, or a stylized design based upon a sunflower pattern or a tulip cup, with various leaves and tendrils. Sister Hammond is skillful in applique work and in piecing quilts, but the art that gives her the greatest sense of accomplishment is her work with fabric paints, which she uses for radiant color and pleasing harmony. Her butterfly wall hangings and her intricate smocking work for pillows, as well as netting and crocheted articles, have given her much admiration as a ''most versatile artist.'' Sister Hammond has held positions of leadership in the Church auxiliary organizations since 1918, and her devotion to her three daughters, her grandchildren, and great-grandchildren reminds those who know her of the Biblical description of a woman whose children ''arise up, and call her blessed." Synopsis: Nora Blake, a schoolteacher in Banner, Idaho, lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latter-day Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a _ local rancher, and is astonished to learn secretly that he cannot read. She offers to teach him, and Jed accepts her instruction. Being informed that good virgin land is available, Nora takes up a homestead. One of her neighbors is Old Free, a mysterious hermit, and a non-Mormon. When Trudy Shepherd dies of influenza, Nora learns significant gospel principles from the funeral talks and the aititude of the Shepherds. "T came as soon as I could," Jed said. "'Ben was sick today. He said you wanted to drive out to the Lang place. Hope you won't mind riding with me instead of Ben." "Why, no, that is stopped, flustered. She pretended to busy herself in her top desk drawer. As she did so, her hand came upon the scrap of paper she had picked up, following the spelling match. She held it out to him. Jed glanced at it, crumpled it tighter, and tossed it into the wastebasket. "'Here,''she cried. "Don't throw that away! That's my proof."."' Nora 522 wy ihe > Golden Chain Chapter 6 "Proof? Of what?" "That you really did know how to spell obfuscate." She glanced at him. Something in his eyes stopped her from pursuing the matter further. "T'll get my things," she said. "T'll only be a moment." On the road, the May afternoon sunshine was delightful. A slight breeze stirred Nora's brown hair, curling it around her face. Jed kept his team to a walk. "T've been waiting for a chance like this, Nora," he said. Nora! Not Miss Blake, but Nora! "T want to tell you a story. You probably have no idea what you have done for me, in teaching me to read. I want you to know how it was that I never learned before." Nora was silent, waiting for him to begin. Jed reached down into the bottom of the buggy and pushed an empty grain sack under the seat. "TY remember doing that as a boy a good many times," he said, "pushing the grain sack down out of sight. Once when it was about half empty, I hid it under my saddle in the bottom of the wagon so Pa wouldn't be tempted to sell if for a grubstake. I'd seen him start off in search of gold often enough. I knew it meant trading something for food, but it wouldnot be' the seed grain—not if I could help it. "One spring, my corn and wheat had come up real fine. Pa was tramping the hills from top to bottom around Dry Gulch. Then the news swept through our camp that there was plenty of gold that could be had somewhere farther west, in a place called Banner Canyon. I knew when I heard it that Pa wouldn't wait around for any corn patch to ripen. "The camp in Colorado began breaking up. Most of the men in Dry Gulch were prospectors, except a few like the Moffitts, who had come looking for farming land. Their two boys had been good friends to me. When we left, they jumped at the chance to cut my wheat along with their own. I was glad to know that someone would benefit from all my work. At least my crop wouldn't be a total loss. "The Moffitts had helped me plant. I remember Mr. Moffitt lifting a handful of wheat and letting it run through his fingers back into my sack. I remember what he said. " "This is the real treasure of the land, Jed. A man can spend his life looking for the other kind. Often, by the time he finds it, he has lost most of the worthwhile things along the way. This is the kind of gold that brings a man contentment.' " Jed continued, "I liked my days measured out. So much work planned for the day, and so much The Golden Chain work done when the day came to an end. I liked knowing that seeds were in the earth and would respond to my care. I liked living and working among friends. I would have liked going to school, but Pa either did not stay long enough in one place, or where we did stay, there wasn't any school. When we finally came here to Banner I thought I was too old to go." Roan Jed paused, but Nora said nothing, happy in sharing this closeness, this confidence with Jed; unwilling to do or say anything that might break the spell. "There was one thing I could be sure of wherever we went. Freedom Lang would show up. I mentioned it once to Pa. " 'Funny, how Old Free always comes to the same diggings we do.' "But Pa didn't say anything, but still I wondered about it. I remember leaving Dry Gulch. Pa was busy working the nicks out of his axe with the whetstone while I loaded the wagon. He was whistling as he worked. He was always in real good spirits whenever we headed for a new gold field. "T closed the cabin door and wondered who would live in it next, wishing we could stay on at least until the harvest. "T usually drove the team. That left Pa free to search the countryside as we drove past. Often we would stop for him to inspect a ledge of rock or break a stone up with his hammer. '"'We came to an Indian trading post, and I saw Pa's eyes going over the contents of the wagon. We had the bedroll, the plow, packsaddle, a couple of pans, and a few dishes wrapped in two coats, my saddle and bridle, and the prospecting tools. And my two sacks with the seed corn and wheat Mr. Moffitt had given me. "" 'We'll need some grub, Jed boy,' Pa said. "T just sat there, holding the lines in my hands. " *There's enough corn and wheat to trade for a slab of bacon, and some beans and a bit of jerky,' he went on. "Still I sat. Finally he said, 'I want that seed, Jed.' """And I say we've got to keep the seed, Pa.' "T kept my voice real quiet, but Pa was raising his. " "What do you expect me to trade?' he asked. 'My pick? My sledge hammer? My packsaddle?' "* No, Pa,' I told him. "Take my saddle, my bridle, too, if you need it.' *" "Jed, boy!' He was so eager I could hardly believe it. 'You mean it?' he asked. "T just nodded. Pa lifted the saddle and bridle out of the wagonbox and stood there a minute, holding them. " "You won't be sorry, Jed. This time we're bound to find gold.' "IT told him I didn't need a saddle to plow with. I wouldn't be riding the horse. I had to get some ground broken up before the fall storms set in. "T remember thinking it was strange that, no matter how hard up we were, Pa never did ask for the little gold piece that I had worn around my neck on a piece of buckskin during all the years while I was growing up. 524 '"'When we started on again, Pa said, 'I want you to ride with me this time, Jed.' ""T'll be plowing, Pa,' I told him. 'Besides, you won't be alone. Old Free will travel faster than we do. He'll probably be at Banner Canyon waiting for us.' "I spoke better than I knew, for that was exactly what happened. We drove right up to his camp. I knew it was Free's. His burro was staked out behind his tent. " "Probably staked himself out the best claim already,' Pa said. 'Beats me how the old codger got ahead of us again.' "| didn't bother to mention how many times we had stopped along the way, with Pa clambering over this pile of rocks, then calling for me to pull the wagon ahead a-bit and wait for him while he looked at the next ledge. "Pa decided to go on up the canyon a ways before we set up camp. He didn't say it, but I knew he wanted to get farther away from Old Free. Myself, since there were only the three of us, I would have preferred to camp together, but not Pa. 'Some days he insisted that I ride with him, saying we could cover a lot more territory when there were two of us. On other mornings, he had me take the pan to the creek to see if I could wash out any gold from the gravel on the bottom of the stream. The only gold that appeared was one afternoon when Free was helping me, and then it was he who found the little nuggets, not I. It made Pa just as happy as if I'd found it myself. "* 'T knew there was gold here,' he cried. 'We'll move the camp back down into Banner Valley now. We'll be staying here. We had best choose our piece of land. Soon as word gets out there is gold here, the place will swarm with people. Start your plowing, Jed: I'll prospect alone from here on.' "I could understand that. If there really was any gold to be found, Pa wanted to do the finding himself. Now that he felt he was getting close, he left me alone pretty much to my farming. "The valley grew a good stand of sagebrush. I knew it was good land then, and it still is. Took a lot of work, though. I burned the sages off at first, then had to plow the roots up. "But there was still something about Old Free finding those nuggets that bothered me. I thought of it often, as I went up and down the furrows, shaking the dirt off the roots of the sages. "TI had washed the gravel in that particular spot over and over. Of course, they could have turned up, just at that moment. They were so smooth and shiny, about like the piece I wore around my neck, but I got the idea that they were shiny because Free had carried them for a long time inside a pocket. "TY worked on through the summer and into the autumn. Pa The Golden Chain came late at night and left early the next morning. Sometimes he stayed through the night, his craze for gold taking him higher and higher into the mountains. * After one such trip, he came back to tell of a strange sight. "' 'Tt must have been a giant of a landslide,' he said. 'Yet it's hard to tell where the land slid from. It has almost filled the canyon with gray, sharp-cornered rocks. Banner Creek disappears completely and comes out at the bottom of the slide. It's impossible to describe. You've got to see it, Jed.' "So I went. There was a weird beauty about the place. It's up there, Nora. Sometime I should like to show it to you." Jed motioned toward the canyon. "I should like very much to see it,' said Nora softly. Jed continued as if there had been no interruption of his story. "Old Free had moved his camp right up near the top of the slide, which was almost to timberline. He had built a cabin, and Pa said Free must be intending to stay through the winter. "" "Ain't that a sight?' Pa asked. 'I knew you'd like to see it.' "Creepy. That's how it made me feel. I was glad to be away from the slide. It had a treacherous appearance, but my curiosity was aroused. As the stormy season came on, and the plow would no longer scour in the mud, and the ground began to freeze, then I took to making long rides into the canyon, keeping an eye out to watch the old man. "Free still made his occasional trips to town and continued to pay for his supplies with gold. This kept the interest in Banner Canyon at fever pitch, and I knew Pa would stay on the hunt until snow forced him to stay in camp. Miners, with less hope of finding gold, were becoming discouraged and began taking up more and more of the land near the little town of Banner by our tract, or else moved on. "On one ride into the canyon, I took my two bags of seed grain, figuring to put them where Pa couldn't be tempted to trade them off before spring came. I found a place near the bottom of the slide. I lined the bottom and sides with smvoth rocks, put the sacks in, then covered the top with heavy, tight-fitting stones. "TI was about ready to go back to where I had tied my horse, when I saw Old Free step out of his cabin and walk a short distance out on the mass of gray rocks. He had not seen me. I stepped back by the trees and watched. From among the rocks, Free lifted an old copper teakettle. I stood there while he replaced it and then I waited until he passed by me on his burro down the trail. He didn't even notice my horse. "By the time I reached the kettle, my heart was pounding in my throat. Before I even took off the lid I knew that this was the source of Free's gold. What I had not known was that the kettle would be almost empty. I put everything back as I had found it, then turned and ran like the wind down the trail to my _ horse, hidden among the trees. "I debated with myself that winter as to whether I should tell Pa about the kettle. I knew that if he found out Free's gold came 526 out of an old teakettle, we would be on the move again. While there wasn't much gold left, maybe, for Free, it would be enough for another year. That would mean a whole growing season, a planting and a harvest. Maybe even Pa would realize then that this was the best land we had ever had. "One morning when winter had not quite gone, I woke up and found that Pa had already left the house. I dressed in a hurry and ran outside. There he was, on his horse, anxious for his first day back on the trail. I knew the winter had been a drag for him. '"""*T'm going up on the slide today, Jed,' he said. "IT watched him ride away. Why, Pa had combed every foot of the hills near the slide. There was no use going over it again. His words came back to me, 'I'm going up on the slide!' "TI was scared. I was good and scared. With the ice melting from among the rocks, even a jack rabbit crossing the slide would set some of them in motion. I knew I had to tell. I ran behind him and caught hold of his leg. ""*Pa! Pa!' I cried, 'there isn't any gold, Pa! Free gets his nuggets out of an old teakettle!' "T guess I was almost screaming the words out, but Pa shook me off as he started away. "" "So he's got you in cahoots with him, has he? Well, it won't work. He's got gold all right, and I mean to find it. Not in any tin pan, either.' "I just stood there, looking after him, until he disappeared. "But I couldn't eat breakfast. I couldn't do anything around the cabin. Finally, I got the halter rope and went for my horse. I could ride faster than Pa could, and maybe, somehow, someway, I could get him to change his mind. I didn't dare even call to him, thinking maybe even the sound of my voice might start the rocks: sliding. "It was when I crossed the creek in the bottom of the canyon that I heard it. Or maybe I didn't actually hear anything above the roar of the spring runoff. Maybe I just felt it under the horse's feet. When I got there it was all over." Je pulled the team to a halt, his eyes on the hills of Banner Canyon. Nora put her hand on his arm. He covered her hand with his own. She could feel his struggle to finish his story that he was, for the first time, putting into words. "TI could see the dark strip of rocks where they had slipped. I seemed to know that Free would be waiting for me. "T tried to tell him I knew about the kettle, but he wouldn't believe me. " 'Don't blame yourself, Jed,' he said. 'He wouldn't believe me, either. I even showed him the kettle, but he said it was just a trick to keep all the gold for myself. I tried every way I could to stop him, but it only made him mad. Told him only a fool would go out on that slide. He said he had been a fool all right, to take my word that there was no gold out on the slide, and he didn't intend to be one any longer.' "' Jed cleared his throat. Nora drew her hand gently away from his. "At the bottom of the slide I found two pieces of wood. There was no telling where Pa was, The Golden Chain under all those rocks. That seemed as good a place as any to mark his grave. I needed something to tie my boards together. I looked around, but there was nothing to be found, so I opened my shirt and took the piece of buckskin from around my neck. I untied the ends and slid the small gold piece into Old Free's hand. Then, with the buckskin thong, I tied the crosspiece together. Free stood for a long time with his old hat in his hand. "He still held the small gold piece, turning it over and over. Then he reached inside his own shirt and brought out one just like it. I saw him fit the uneven edges of the two pieces. They matched perfectly. "*T cut this myself,' he said, 'made the holes, too. Gave the one to my daughter when she left to marry your father. I never saw her again. Next time I heard of her, it was only to visit her grave.' "He held the gold pieces as though they were very precious, as if he had been waiting to do so for a long, long time. ""We had bitter words, your Pa and I,' he said. 'I told him she'd still be alive if he had settled down. He said I was a fine one to talk since I had spent my life on the gold trail.' " "But why, why?' I asked. " "Why didn't I claim you as my grandson?' He understood my question without its really being asked. """T really wanted to,' he said. 'Through the years, I wanted to. But your Pa threatened me. Said if I ever did he'd take you so far away I never could find you.' "There was one more thing I had to know. ""Why did you try to make them think your gold came from the mountains?' I asked. " "Tt did,' he said, 'from many mountains. A bit of dust here, a small nugget there. I gathered it a little at a time from lots of mountains. When I learned I had a grandson, I vowed a vow. I wanted more than the gold trail for you. I decided to use my gold to bring settlers into some valley. It worked, too. They'll stay on here now, in Banner Valley, and build a church and a school. I want you to stay on here, Jed, among the Mormons. The things they believe are true.' " Jed's voice stopped. The story was over. Nora felt the moment of nearness passing, as Jed spoke to the horses, urging them forward. "He believes in the Mormon Church, and yet he has never joined?" mused Nora, almost to herself. "No, he has never joined. And he has never wanted anyone to know that we are related. Says he isn't worthy of either, of a grandson or baptism. You see, long ago, on a day at Carthage, he was there. He was very young, only a lad, but he was there, and he has never been able to forget that he was." Nora felt a surge of encouragement that Jed had confided in her to this extent, but she could feel the same old barriers returning to come between them. She was never quite sure just what the barriers were, only that they were there. Perhaps, perhaps—if she were only patient. She did not finish the thought, but a new hope began to grow within her. As he drew the team to a halt in front of Freedom Lang's cabin, Jed spoke again. "So now do you understand, Nora? Do you understand why I never learned to read, and why I like the land? It was Pa's wandering that did it, made me want to stay in one place. The rest of my life won't be too long. Traveling is not for me. I'm content to spend my life right here in Banner." Oh, Jed! Jed! I would be, too, if you would include me in that life! Nora's heart cried out. "Do you understand, Nora? Do you?" His persistent questioning intruded into her thoughts. "Yes, Jed,' she answered quietly, 'I think I do." (To be continued) a