[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 703 | Home | Spiritual Living . . . Light and Truth | Roy W. Doxey]
SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 75 — Light and Truth (Text: Doctrine and Covenants 93:24-26, 30-53) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman molds -her. Life INTRODUCTION We have learned in the last two lessons that Section 93 of the Doctrine and Covenants gives considerable understanding about the Savior and also man. TRUTH—ABSOLUTE From this wonderful revelation, Section 93, we learn the following definition of truth: And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come; And whatsoever is more or less than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning (D&C 93:24-25). In accordance with revealed truth. Truth is knowledge! Truth is constant—absolute! Truth never changes! Men may change as to their concepts of truth, but truth, never. It is that which was, is, and will continue to be. Expressed in another revelation— "truth abideth and hath no end" (Ibid., 88:66). Men of science consider the. Understanding of truth to be relative; that is, it changes. What is looked upon as "true" today may change tomorrow. This belief concerning man's_ research is necessary in order that man's investigations may continue. The scientist builds upon the findings 


 of others and thus advancement is made in discovering additional fragments of truth. But what about religious truths, as contained in the gospel of Jesus Christ restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors? Men may know about God and their relationship to him through revelation. Man's environment will not provide the answer; it must be revealed! The acceptance of this truth will bring this understanding. The Prophet stated: We take the sacred writings into our hands, and admit that they were given by direct inspiration for the good of man. We believe that God condescended to speak from the heavens and declare His will concerning the human family, to give them just and holy laws, to regulate their conduct, and guide them in a direct way, that in due time He might take them to Himself, and make them joint heirs with His Son. But when this fact is admitted, that the immediate will of heaven is contained in the Scriptures, are we not bound as rational creatures to live in accordance to all its precepts? Will the mere admission, that this is the will of heaven ever benefit us if we do not comply with all its teachings? Do we not offer violence to the Supreme Intelligence of heaven, when we admit the truth of its teachings, and do not obey them? Do we not descend below our own knowledge, and the better wisdom which heaven has endowed us with, by such a course of conduct? For these reasons, if we have direct revelations given us from heaven, surely those revelations were never given to be trifled with, without the trifler's incurring displeasure and. Vengeance upon his own head, if there is any justice in heaven... (DHC 11:11). CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss the consequences of admitting a truth and not living according to it. All truth has not been re- 704 vealed. Some truths are withheld because men lack faith. (Alma 12:9-11.) Our ninth Article of Faith declares that God "will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God."' We have, nevertheless, all that is necessary for the attainment of exaltation in. The celestial kingdom. Men continue to acquire further knowledge in the spirit world. During the millennium, the living will receive more knowledge. (D&C 101:32- 34.) TRUTH—DIFFERENTIATION Is all knowledge of equal value? Not all knowledge is of equal value. The knowledge that constitutes the wisdom of the heavens is all embraced in the Gospel as taught by Jesus Christ; and wilful ignorance of this, the highest type of knowledge, will relegate its victim to the inferior order of intelligences (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 edition, p. 267). We lived with God before we were born upon this earth. We are here for the purpose, ultimately, of advancing through faith toward godhood. The most important knowledge is_ that knowlelge which teaches salvation. If we learn all of the information about secular things in a given field of endeavor, important for this life, and yet we do not measure up to the purpose of our existence, we have lost our opportunity for the greatest blessings. TRUTH IS OF GOD "The Spirit of truth is of God" (D&C 93:26). How may one receive truth? President Stephen L Richards answers, as follows: '. We must, of necessity have God's aid in the acquisition of truth. His aid comes through faith and prayer. Faith contemplates the acceptance of the spiritual reality of a world outside the domain of science. It involves methods and _ processes different from those of scientific research. It postulates humility and dependence on divine power, the antipathies of egotism and self-efficiency. A contrite heart is the fertile field for planting the seeds of truth. In such a field they come to fruition in a knowledge, understanding, and conviction of the great concepts of life which defy the reason and philosophy of the arrogant, and self-sufficient, who will not stoop to the methods of the humble (Conference Report, April 1939, p. 41). THE POWER OF TRUTH There is a quality about religious truth that makes it different—the power to testify of itself. The Prophet Joseph Smith said:... In relation to the power over the minds of mankind which I hold, I would say, it is in consequence of the power of truth in the doctrines which I have been an instrument in the hands of God of presenting unto them, and not because of any compulsion on my part (DHC VI:2738). There is a spirit about truth that captures the attention and allegiance of those who are prepared for it. Elder Orson F. Whitney told the following experience with the bishop of another denomination who had written against the Book of Abraham in The Pearl of Great Price: I met the Bishop, with whom I was quite well acquainted, and he said to me: "Why have you not answered me?" "I have," was my reply; "I have been answering you all over the country, but it hasn't gotten into the papers." "Oh, indeed, and what have you ben saying?" he inquired. "I have been saying this: LESSON DEPARTMENT "Truth is truth, where'er 'tis found, On Christian or on heathen ground.' "And whether it be taken from an ancient hill in North America, as was the Book of Mormon; or from the catacombs of Egypt, as was the Book of Abraham, if it's true, it's true, no matter who translated it, or how many supposed flaws appear in the translation. The character of the content and the spirit that goes with it, determines better than all else its truth, its authenticity. We know Shakespeare's writings by the very sound of them—they have the Shakespearean ring. Literary experts can tell the difference between these writings and all others. We recognize Milton's poetry by the Miltonic ring; the poetry of Byron and Tennyson by the Byronic and Tennysonian ring. Then, if God speaks, why should it not have a Godlike ring, something that no man can counterfeit, nor any but a spiritual expert fully appreciate?" [He] agreed with me. Not as to the Book of Abraham, but as to the best way of testing any book. "I am one with you," he said, "in the belief that the highest evidence of the truth of any work is the spirit that it breathes and the wisdom that it inculcates," "Then," said I, "this Book of Abraham needs no defense from me, nor from anyone else. It speaks for itself; it defends itself. By the majesty of its language, by the sublimity of its teachings and the Spirit that permeates them, it proclaims itself divine" (Conference Report, April 1926, p. 34). LIGHT AND TRUTH The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth. Light and truth forsake that evil one (D&C 93: 36-37). The divine essence in man, intelligence, is light and _ truth. What is light? In discussing faith and knowledge, Alma mentions faith, that it was dormant until the word swelled the soul and then, he said,. It hath sprouted up, that your understanding doth begin to be en- 


 lightened, and your mind doth begin to expand. O then, is not this real? I say unto you, Yea, because it is light; and whatsoever is light, is good, because it is discernible, therefore ye must know that it is good (Alma 32: 34-35). Light, then, "is the wisdom and ability to forsake everything 'more or less' than truth" (RomNEY, Marion G.: BYU Bulletin, May 31, 1957). Because man is_ intelligence ("light and truth'), he is capable, by reason of his nature, to recognize truth and, by his free agency, reject error. Men may cloud their ability to discern light and truth because of sin. The greater the sin and the longer the continuance in sin, the less power one has to distinguish between truth and falsehood. It is probable, however, that few men lose all of this power. THE WAY OF TRUTH Jesus declared that he is the way of salvation, the Spirit of truth, and that he has a fulness of truth. (John 14:6; D&C 93: 26.) The Holy Ghost is also known as the Spirit of truth. (John 15:26; D&C 50:17.) Truth, light, and Spirit, are the Spirit of Christ which is given to all men, and he who hearkens to this Spirit is enlightened: (D&C 84: 45-46.) This Spirit is also called the "light of Christ." (Ibid., 88: 6-13; Moroni 7:14-19.) We have learned of the functions and place of this Spirit in our world. (Lesson 65 Relief Society Magazine, July 1965.) It is through Jesus Christ that truth is made known to man. Various means of revelation are used, such as dreams, visions, pure intelligence into the mind, 706 but always it is through the Savior. (D&C 76:12-13.) To be obedient to the teachings of Christ—having faith in him, repenting, being baptized, and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and keeping the commandments, bring the Holy Ghost as a constant companion. (Jbid., 121:46.) These powers and influences— the "light of Christ"? And the Holy Ghost—guide men _ into "light and truth." All of them come from Jesus Christ to bless men that they may succeed in the journey back to the Father's presence to receive a fulness of joy after the resurrection. (Jbid., 93:33-34.) STANDARD OF JUDGMENT Moroni said that the Spirit of Christ, which is given to all men, is the means by which God has provided that men may know truth from error. The way to judge is to realize that everything that persuades men to do good and to believe in Christ, is of God. If the idea persuades men to do evil and not to believe in Christ, it is of the devil. (Moroni 7:14-19.) Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve comments as follows on Moroni's words: In applying this test, that everything that persuadest to believe in Christ is of God and that everything which persuadeth not to believe in Christ is of the devil, we start with the assurance that whatever the Lord has revealed is truth, "diamond truth" to borrow a phrase from the Prophet, that it is consistent with all that is, all that was, and all that is to come. This is and must be so because God's wisdom is infinite, being founded upon complete knowledge. "All things," said the prophet Lehi speaking [of] things of the works of God, "have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things" (2 Nephi 2:24). Implicit in this text is the assumption that wisdom is dependent upon knowledge and that God's wisdom is infinite because He is omniscient. "He knoweth all things, and there is not anything save he knows it" (2 Nephi 9:20). He possesses with respect to all matters that knowledge which is truth, the object of our search, "knowledge of things as they are as they were, and as they are to come.".. - Does what you have learned persuade you "to do good" and "to believe in Christ?" If so, it is "of God," and being of God it is truth. It will never be repudiated (BYU Bulletin, May 30, 1957). To elucidate upon this standard of judgment, Elder Romney provides this example: That you may understand more clearly what I have in mind, let me give you an illustration or two. One of the fundamental doctrines of revealed truth is that in the garden of Eden, God endowed men with free agency. (Moses 7:32.) The preservation of this free agency is more important than the preservation of life itself... For without it, "there is no existence." (D&C 93:30.) It is, therefore, clear that everything which militates against man's enjoyment of this endowment persuades not to believe in Christ, for He is the author of free agency.. Truth and error cannot be reconciled. All you need to do is distinguish between them, accept the truth and forsake the error. That is what the Lord has always done. In fact, His ability to do so is, as we have seen, inherent in the intelligence which is His glory. The error of Lucifer and the truth of Jesus could not be reconciled even in heaven. Error had to be cast out (Ibid.). WHY MEN ARE ACCOUNTABLE As indicated above, man is a free agent with the right to choose. (Helaman 14:30.) BeLESSON DEPARTMENT cause he enjoys this right, aided by the "light of Christ," he is responsible for his acts. The additional truth is given in Section 93 that since man is intelligence, this divine essence, "light and truth," makes him responsible. All truth is independent in that sphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also; otherwise there is no existence. Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light. And every man whose spirit receiveth not the light is under condemnation (D&C 93:30-32). Because of the power in truth, man should be able to recognize it; for part of his being is "'truth and light." In the beginning, every spirit was innocent, but, in the war in heaven, Lucifer rebelled, taking many with him. These spirits lost their innocence, but those who kept their first estate come to earth in mortal bodies and are innocent. (Ibid., 93:38.) This innocence continues until the age of eight is reached, and then each person becomes accountable for his sins. (Ibid., 68:25-27.) THE VOICE OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD Light and truth are lost by men as they disobey the commandments. When it comes to accepting the truth of the gospel, men may not understand them because they have lost the ability to comprehend, due to the traditions of their fathers and of individual sin which have darkened their susceptibility to truth. (Ibid., 93:39; 76:75; JAMES E. TALMAGE, The Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 269-271.) The voice 


 of the Good Shepherd becomes too dim to be understood. Latter-day Saints may know the voice of the Master as they observe all the commandments. (John 10:1-14, D&C 50:17-22.) President Brigham Young asks and then answers the question: "How are we to know the voice of the Good Shepherd from the voice of a stranger?"... When an individual, filled with the Spirit of God, declares the truth of heaven, the sheep hear that, the Spirit of the Lord pierces their inmost souls and sinks deep into their hearts; by the testimony of the Holy Ghost light springs up within them, and they see and understand for themselves.... I have said to the Latter-day Saints, many and many a time, and I say to them now, live your religion, that the Spirit of God may be within you like a well of water springing up to everlasting life.... Be prepared that you may know the voice when it comes through the servants of God, then you can declare for yourselves, "This is the word of the Lord." My caution and counsel to the Latter-day Saints, and to all the inhabitants of the earth is—''Live so that you will know truth from error" (Journal of Discourses 16: 74-75). CHILDREN—LIGHT AND TRUTH The Lord has commanded Latter-day Saints to rear their children in "light and_ truth." (D&C 93:40). No person in the Church is beyond this commandment. Even members of The First Presidency, in 1833, were told that they had not kept this commandment. This was said of Presidents Frederick G. Williams and Sidney Rigdon, Counselors to President Joseph Smith. Unless they were obedient in setting their houses in order Satan would continue to have power over them. (Ibid., 93:41-44.) Even 708 the Prophet lacked in this matter also. An important truth was also taught regarding his family. Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place (Ibid., 93: 48). In other words, responsibility is not only the parent's but also the child's. But the major obligation is with the parents who are to teach their children principles of righteousness. (Jbid., 68:25-31.) The Family Home Evening program in use throughout the Church is one means by which this commandment can be lived by parents and children. No other people have as much opportunity to rear children in "light and truth" as do the Latter-day Saints. It is also true that no other people are under the same responsibility as the Latter-day Saints. When one considers the truth that children come from our Father and that what parents do or do not do for them here determines, in a large measure, their eternal future, the weight of this responsibility is better appreciated. CLASS DISCUSSION: What would happen in the world if parents brought up their children in "light and truth''? Latter-day Saint families are intended to be eternal. The association of parents and children I throughout the eternities is the desired goal of every faithful member of the Church. Eternal marriage is the qualifying ordinance, together with keeping the commandments and obligations received in the House of the Lord. The words of President Joseph F. Smith are especially pertinent to these thoughts: We are living for eternity and not merely for the moment. Death does not part us from one another, if we have entered into sacred relationships with each other by virtue of the authority that God has revealed to the children of men. Our relationships are formed for eternity. We are immortal beings, and we are _ looking forward to the growth that is to be attained in an exalted life after we LESSON DEPARTMENT have proved ourselves faithful and true to the covenants that we have entered into here, and then we will receive a fulness of joy (Gospel Doctrine, 10th edition, pp. 277-278). FOR CONSIDERATION Do you think a discussion on the kind of a life each member of the family should live in order to have the Holy Ghost as a constant companion would be helpful to them? Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 75 — "Obtain a Knowledge of History, and of Countries, and of Kingdoms, of Laws of God and Man, and All This for the Salvation of Zion'' (D&C 93:53). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To help us realize the importance of continued study by The land had to be cleared, and new houses and barns built. There was the restored Church to develop, leaders to train, renewed faith and perspective to acquire and unfold, missionary work to be done. It must have been staggering when the Lord, in the face of these tasks, instructed the saints through the Prophet Joseph Smith, to study, to obtain knowledge, to seek truth — "knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come" (D&C 93:24). Learning is an eternal process. The leaders obeyed this admonition. Learned and unlearned ourselves and our children. Sat down together to study the vast, all-inclusive course of study that the Lord detailed to the Prophet. Teachers and professors, some not members of the Church, were called to teach. Throughout the ages God has attacked the old and chronic social problem of ignorance. Through Hosea, almost three millenniums ago, the Lord said: ""My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge" (Hosea 4:6). During his earthly ministry Jesus stated that ''... The truth shall make you free' (John 8:32).