[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 647 | Special Feature | International Council of Women Conference | Belle S. Spafford]
International Council of Women Conference May 14-26, 1966 PE ER TL ID AEP IE ORR NOT OTT LE ROO EE ELEN DLE GLI LL, President Belle S. Spafford @ The International Council of Women (ICW) held its 26th Triennial Conference May 14-26, 1966, in Teheran, Iran, at the invitation of the Princess Ashraf, chairman of the High Council of Women of Iran and twin sister of the Shah. Queen Farah, the beautiful wife of the Shah, was patron of the conference. She gave the opening address, followed by an address by the Princess. The Queen and the Princess attended a number of the meetings and entertained the delegates at an elaborate buffet dinner at the historic and lavish Golestan Palace. The dinner was followed by a colorful program of native music and dancing, presented from a glittering stage in the palace gardens, with participants dressed in native costume. The invitation to hold the conference in Teheran had been accepted by the ICW in recognition of the Iranian women having been granted suffrage in 1963. Prior to 1936 the women were veiled. The liberation of the women is regarded as one of three major programs of the Shah, Reza Pahlavi, designed to promote progress and advance the nation. The other two programs are land reform and a crash program to correct illiteracy. Today several women are in the Iranian Parliament. Iran is predominantly a Moslem country, with Friday observed as the Sabbath. The United States delegation arrived on a Friday and had difficulty getting someone to help with luggage. Iran is a country of sharp contrasts. Teheran, the capital city, retains much that is ancient in character; yet amazes one with much that is new and modern. Many women still wear the Chadorr (a shawl-like wrap which covers the head and body). It is not uncommon to see students with their books and papers studying at night under the street lamps. Yet the city boasts a modern airport, modern hotels, and new _ business __ buildings. Much of the intricate and beautiful ancient Persian arts and crafts has been preserved, such as carpet weaving and ornamental engravings on beautifully designed brass objects. Iranian women are pretty, intelligent, and socially gracious. The conference was attended by approximately 600 women representing national councils of 647 INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE sixty nations. During the conference, seven additional councils were accepted as members. Each participating national council is allowed a number of voting delegates according to the size of its membership. The National Council of Women (NCW) of the United States, one of the largest councils and the oldest member of the ICW, was allowed ten voting delegates with ten alternates. Distinct recognition was accorded the Relief Society and the YWMIA in the appointment of the presidents of these two auxiliaries of the Church as voting delegates. President Spafford was assigned to the section on Social Welfare and President Florence S. Jacobsen to the section on Youth and the Family. Other sections and the voting United States council delegate assigned to each were as follows: Education—Judith S. Randall Health—Dr. Katherine Merritt Housing—Edythe F. Bull Music—Dr. Grace H. Spofford Handicrafts—Vanderbuilt Webb Migration—Valodejmyr Pushkar Finance—Hope Scherry Cinema—Dudley Seldon Press and Public Relations— Countess Alicia Paolozvi International Relations—Mrs. Talbot, wife of Ambassador to Greece Trades and Professions—Dr. Dorothy Gregg Home Economics—Mary B. Wood The announced theme of the conference was "'Ancient Values in a Changing World." As the conference progressed, this theme seemed to become submerged, however, with a new theme, of "Community Development," gaining ascendancy, spearheaded by an impressive address by the chairman of the Danish delegation in which she advocated programs and action that would afford greater opportunity for women in community life, indicating a need for this even in the developed countries. She pointed out that women, in turn, would then be able to make more constructive contributions _ toward community development. The ICW, at its triennial conferences, has always aimed to present factual data in its efforts to focus the attention of organized women on matters related to family and community life and to encourage efforts to correct unfavorable conditions, as well as to chart courses aimed toward improving family and community life. Resolutions designed to aid in the accomplishment of these purposes are drawn up in the respective sectional meetings and adopted, amended, or rejected in the plenary sessions. No national council, however, can be committed to any cause or project recommended by the ICW except by its own vote. The right to vote or abstain from voting on any resolution is an inherent right of national councils holding ICW membership. The delegates were informed, public-spirited women, holding positions of distinction and influence in their respective countries. Many were members of General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford and President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association departing from New York City to attend the meetings of the International Council of Women. 


 their parliaments. Each seemed eager to understand the problems of the others and to work unitedly in a spirit of friendship for goals of common _ importance. Traditions, cultures, degrees of development, differing social, economic, and political conditions made it difficult, at times, for delegates to come together on resolutions that all could fully support. In the plenary sessions, program participants spoke feelingly of the importance of good home and family life; but, at the same time, they advanced ideas and made proposals for programs that would increase the participation of women in community life and take them more and more from their homes and their children. The discussions in the Social Welfare Section assumed a definite aspect of moral welfare, with the varied social implications. The Convenor, Madame Droin of Switzerland, summarized reports of the participating councils on birth control and prostitution, which had been designated areas for study and factfinding for the last three-year period. The study of birth control had been initiated at the Washington Conference three years ago because of the inadequacy of production and economic resources in some countries to meet the demands of a rapidly growing population. Prostitution seemed to be of importance to organized women in view of the increases of venereal diseases in many countries, and the problem, in some of the developing countries, of girls being attracted from rural areas to urban centers by the seemingly better opportunities there, only to find themselves in- 650 adequately equipped to take advantage of the job opportunities and to cope with life in the cities while separated from families and friends. Under these circumstances, a number of them were turning to prostitution. Reports of participating councils indicated that prostitution is declining. Delegates admitted, however, that sex promiscuity appeared to be on the increase, creating serious social problems in its wake. The Social Welfare Section discussions led to a motion, in the section that the study of birth control be no longer pursued by the International Council of Women. It was the opinion that this matter would be best left to the respective national councils to deal with in their own countries according to needs and circumstances, taking into account religious viewpoints. It was further decided no longer to pursue the study of prostitution. A resolution finalizing the study of this subject was adopted. Delegates were aroused over the increase in sexual promiscuity. It was agreed that recommendation be made to the plenary session that the next three-year study center around the following general divisions: Promiscuity—contributing factors, and related social evils and treatment programs. Community Development, including emphasis on productive leisure-time activities. Also, the legal aspects of child placements would be considered by the Laws and Suffrage Section. Delegates in the Child and Family Section talked of ways of making the home the honored Her Majesty Queen Farah; Mrs. Erwin M. Schuller of Great Britain, President, International Council of Women; Princess Ashraf of Iran. Place in the community, how to establish family stability, and home problems arising where a mother works outside the home, and the need of care for children. Three codes of conduct worked out by parents and children in three United States communities on standards of dress, dating, morals, driving, and school studles were presented, President Jacobsen said. The Section of Health was of particular interest and national health and medical programs, including the Medicare program of the United States, were explained. Discussions followed, which pointed up a need for more hospital and nursing home facilities; more nurses—both professional and_ semi-professional (licensed practical nurses); more effective use of available nursing resources; more training programs in home nursing; more intensive public health education programs. The variance in nurse training programs was very pronounced, ranging from a few weeks in one of the developing cquntries to four years in some of the developed countries for socalled registered nurses. On the whole, the resolutions passed in the plenary sessions were based on factual information, thoughtfully prepared, and worthy of the support of the international women. The entire conference had excellent official recognition. Delegates were entertained, in addition to the dinner given by 


 the Queen and the Princess, by the Mayor of Teheran, and by distinguished Iranian women in their homes. A highlight of the visit to Iran was the party given by the wife of the American Ambassador and the American women attached to the Embassy. The party was held in the American Embassy garden where Persian rugs were spread over the lawns. The tables were beautiful and abundantly laden with American food. Each American delegate was assigned an American woman attached to the Embassy as hostess. Mrs. Preston Cannady, the wife of Colonel Cannady, Chief of the Iranian Gendarme Mission, was hostess for President Spafford and President Jacobsen. She proved a blessing to us— generous in providing a car and driver for our convenience, entertaining us a number of times in her spacious and beautiful home, advising us regarding food and water, and showing countless other considerations. A_ Protestant herself, she took us to the Protestant Church on the Sabbath (Sunday). Later, she located for us, through the Catholic priest, a branch of our Church, which gave us the opportunity to attend sacrament meeting and to meet with Relief Society and MIA sisters. This was a great joy to us. One especially interesting experience came during the conference when an Iranian woman, Mrs. Hadjar Tarbiat, a member of the Parliament, privately told Sister Spafford of her efforts on behalf of unveiling Iranian women and later in achieving suffrage for them. She said she did considerable research on the sub- 652 ject of suffrage. In her research she read of the activities of Utah women (Mormon) in obtaining national suffrage in the United States. She gave Sister Spafford her card and urged that they communicate with one another in the interest of the proper use of the franchise. It is impressive to contemplate the power inherent in the conference through its connection with sO many important organizations of women of the world. Participation was a great experience for Sister Jacobsen and Sister Spafford. Our trip was made more pleasurable and profitable through our visits en route home to the Southern Far East, the Korean, and also the Northern Far East Missions. We had opportunity to meet with the Relief Society and MIA leaders located conveniently near the meeting places in Hong Kong, Taipei, Korea, Tokyo, and Manila. We attended Sunday School in Taipei in a beautiful and comfortable new meetinghouse. We also attended a district quarterly conference in a beautiful new meetinghouse in Manila. Generally speaking, we found the Relief Society and MIA functioning well. We were pleased with the good quality leadership of these two auxiliaries. We had a number of choice and deeply moving personal experiences, which bore witness to the fact that the Lord is watching over his work in these faraway lands; that his protective care was about us, and that the gospel and what it does for the individual who accepts and lives it, is the greatest miracle on the face of the earth today. * —. Ah Korean Mission Relief Society District Board I Seated, left to right: Sister Lee; Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford; Shirley Palmer; President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association; Louise Roos; Sister Kim. Standing, left to right: Sisters Choi, Pak, Kim, Chung, Chung, Kim. Seoul (Korea) May 30, 1966 MW coh Faery "eee 1 < ' hy a 4 na '& = => y * -: —s ht dot, —. 2 oe" — as, 3 Southern Far East Mission, Baguio (Philippine Islands) Branch Bazaar May 28, 1966 Left to right: Aida Huliganga, Susana Hiyon; Ceil Jenson; Wilma Galimba; Lilian Mac-Nae; Josephine Willis; Tuesita Colar Ganio; Cely Ceba del Rosario. ' Northern Far East Mission, Tokyo (Japan) Branch Relief Society Assembled at the Mission Home, June 2, 1966 Second row, beginning third from the left: President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association; Judy N. Komatsu, Supervisor of the women's auxiliaries, Northern Far East Mission; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Toshiko Yanakido, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society. For éenturies — tost, — ' ~~ This tured stone 'Has told' me What I. Should have While li ing in this quiet wood To sounds I have not understood; Fo the stealthy pad of a hunter's feet -~On vanished trails. 2) And now we meet Beneath this ancient witness tree That shadowed him, and shelters me. The measured bending of the bow, The zinging as the arrows go Straight and final, the heavy breath Of fallen deer, the gasp of death — I hear — - How could I not have known? Orest's memory is my own.

vention months ago. She would have, but Con never liked her to leave him, even to see her folks for a few days. When she returned he welcomed her warmly and everything was heavenly until she mentioned going someplace again. So Maurine had dreamed of this art convention and made minute, detailed preparation without bringing up the subject. Yesterday, on Monday, she had finally found courage to mention it. Tomorrow, Wednesday, she would have to leave, if she were going. Con didn't know how important art was to her deep inside. Last night when she had brought up the subject of going, Con had been annoyed. He became stoney. Maurine wondered what the day would bring. Well, she must pull herself from the warm bed and meet the day, whatever its problems. The Martin home was attractive. It was the farm home that Con had always known. It was a good farm, and, since Con was an only child and his father and mother were both dead, it belonged to them entirely no mortgages, no debts. They had much to be thankful for, and they still had their youth, and the hopes of a family of their own. Maurine slipped on a pretty housedress, primped a little in front of the mirror, and went to the kitchen. The old farm kitchen resembled a cheery Currier and Ives print, fragrant and wholesome. Maurine started making French toast. Con especially liked her French toast. Someone 656 had said the way to a man's heart was through his stomach. A person could try. But Maurine was rather certain it would take more than food to break through Con's cocoon of silence. ".. Maurine glanced out of the window. Con was coming toward the house swinging the milk buckets, but he wasn't whistling as he usually did. She went to the back door and held it open for him. "Good morning, Con darling." Maurine smiled with affection. Con washed and sat down at his place. Usually he showed her the courtesy of holding her chair for her. "How is everything outside this beautiful moming?" No reply. "Any new little calves?" she asked with sparkling eye transmittance. No contact. "No." Con's eyes reflected the sour grapefruit before him. "I made French toast!" "Didn't need to put yourself out."' Mournful facial expression. "Why no trouble at all. I simply love to cook for you," she said with a wasted smile. "Are you plowing today?" with deepest interest. "No. Planting." Sulkiness darkened the depths of his eyes. "Then you'll be really hungry at dinnertime. What would you like?" "Too busy to stop," he mumbled. "Then I'll bring lunch to the field!'" Her voice was helpful. "Don't bother. Too busy to stop to eat." Con took his hat from the hanger behind the door and was gone. Maurine stood in the doorway and watched until he mounted his tractor and rode off. Arms akimbo, she muttered to the great outdoors in general: 'What does one do when a man just won't communicate?" Maurine did the dishes and made the bed, and tidied up in general.