[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 678 | Home | Blossoms for Lasting Beauty Myrene | T. Alvord]
Alvord BLOSSOMS FOR LASTING BEAUTY Lois S. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society Formal Arrangment of Flowers Double cups of simple egg carton flowers are dipped in pale blue cold water paint and edged with gold. The frosty beaded stamens and delicate leaves and flowers are wired together in a tall and elegant arrangement. Floral tape covers the stems and the places where the flowers, leaves, and stems are attached. The ornate antiqued vase accenting this arrangement is made from a glass bottle. Cover with cold water paint in a color darker than that desired for the finished vase. Don't be afraid to leave brush strokes. Apply as many coats of paint as may be needed thoroughly to cover the bottle, allowing each coat of paint to dry thoroughly, about one day for each coat of paint. From a bottle of gold paint, pour off nearly all the oil, and stir the remainder thoroyghly. Dip a small brush in the gold paint and edge off the surplus paint by pressing the brush against the top of the bottle, and stroke out the wet brush on a soft cloth. When very little gold paint remains in the brush, begin brushing on the edges, ridges, crevices, and round the top of the bottle, working the brush in a horizontal direction, always brushing the bottom edges first. When the complete bottle has been brushed horizontally, repeat the process with perpendicular strokes. Seal with clear, "flat"? Enamel. To decorate the antiqued vase, use liquid steel or clearseal, both come in tube—no funnel needed. Add beads, pearls, jewels, or small gold chains in scrolls, loops, circles, medallions, or floral designs. Candle Holder Remove rim from open end of can, cut 2 strips of paper about 1/2" wide, exactly the length around the can. (Do not overlap.) Divide each strip into 6 or 8 equal parts and mark evenly with a pencil. Scotch tape each strip at bottom and top of can, matching penciled divisions perfectly in line with each other. These are - guidelines for cutting the can I evenly. Following the guidelines through the paper, top and bottom, cut can to bottom. Continue around can. Next, cut top I half off of every other section and, using longnosed pliers, bend down each of the half sections to I form legs for the candle holder. Cut each section into an un-; even number of '"'slits'' about an inch long (7 to a section makes f a nice design). With long-nosed pliers curl "'slits' for design in graduated curls. Curl all sections in like design. Spray with gold, let dry, and decorate with gold doilies, braid, lace, bows, rhinestones, or jewels. To prevent your candle holder from tarnishing, paint lightly with coat of treated plastic resin when you are dipping flowers or make special preparations. 679
BLOSSOMS FOR LASTING BEAUTY Lois S. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society Formal Arrangment of Flowers Double cups of simple egg carton flowers are dipped in pale blue cold water paint and edged with gold. The frosty beaded stamens and delicate leaves and flowers are wired together in a tall and elegant arrangement. Floral tape covers the stems and the places where the flowers, leaves, and stems are attached. The ornate antiqued vase accenting this arrangement is made from a glass bottle. Cover with cold water paint in a color darker than that desired for the finished vase. Don't be afraid to leave brush strokes. Apply as many coats of paint as may be needed thoroughly to cover the bottle, allowing each coat of paint to dry thoroughly, about one day for each coat of paint. From a bottle of gold paint, pour off nearly all the oil, and stir the remainder thoroyghly. Dip a small brush in the gold paint and edge off the surplus paint by pressing the brush against the top of the bottle, and stroke out the wet brush on a soft cloth. When very little gold paint remains in the brush, begin brushing on the edges, ridges, crevices, and round the top of the bottle, working the brush in a horizontal direction, always brushing the bottom edges first. When the complete bottle has been brushed horizontally, repeat the process with perpendicular strokes. Seal with clear, "flat"? Enamel. To decorate the antiqued vase, use liquid steel or clearseal, both come in tube—no funnel needed. Add beads, pearls, jewels, or small gold chains in scrolls, loops, circles, medallions, or floral designs. Candle Holder Remove rim from open end of can, cut 2 strips of paper about 1/2" wide, exactly the length around the can. (Do not overlap.) Divide each strip into 6 or 8 equal parts and mark evenly with a pencil. Scotch tape each strip at bottom and top of can, matching penciled divisions perfectly in line with each other. These are - guidelines for cutting the can I evenly. Following the guidelines through the paper, top and bottom, cut can to bottom. Continue around can. Next, cut top I half off of every other section and, using longnosed pliers, bend down each of the half sections to I form legs for the candle holder. Cut each section into an un-; even number of '"'slits'' about an inch long (7 to a section makes f a nice design). With long-nosed pliers curl "'slits' for design in graduated curls. Curl all sections in like design. Spray with gold, let dry, and decorate with gold doilies, braid, lace, bows, rhinestones, or jewels. To prevent your candle holder from tarnishing, paint lightly with coat of treated plastic resin when you are dipping flowers or make special preparations. 


 - Informal Arrangement..- -- Multi-colored Flowers High and low center egg cartons can become a whole garden bouquet, using manicure scissors, paintpots, and imagination. Low center egg cartons make poppies, and tulips; high centers make daisies, daffodils, lilies, and cold water vinyl paint, and plastic leaves for greenery, and stamens. Use white-wire from 'clothes hangers for stems and green florist tape for covering stems. For low center carton flowers, you will use the cup that holds the egg. With cup separated from carton, using manicure scissors, cut a small V in between the 4 corners of the cup. Round or shape petals as desired. For high center carton flowers, you will use the high center rather than the egg cup. Trim edges off, leaving as much carton as possible. Cut down each high center at the corner of center. Round off each petal to desired shape. For daisies, cut slits all the way around the cup about 14," apart and down to the base. Round off ends. Put 3 of these together—graduating each down to center. For daffodils or lilies, do not cut down the corners, but scallop the edge of the cup. For buds on stock or stems of flowers, wrap 4 piece of cotton in a sheath of toweling, wire at the bottom and tape to the stem. Stocks are made from tiny cup at top of high center of the egg carton. After you have cut out the flowers, paint them with poster, vinyl, or any cold water paint. For variety, outline the edges of some petals with contrasting color or white. These may also be dipped in plastic resin (with catalyst) to make a bright, weatherproof patio table decoration. To assemble, put 2 or 3 cups together (according to flower), alternating petals. Punch hole straight through all bottoms, insert stamen. Place stamen wire along cut white-wire, and wrap with green florist tape. Add plastic leaves along the stem as you wrap the wire.