[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 695 | Poem | September Snow | Beulah Huish Sadleir]
SEPTEMBER SNOW Beulah Huish Sadleir First snow fell on a summered lake, Restless water, water opaque: Snow fell lightly, lent heart-content, Acceptance of winter, and summer spent. 695 FROM THE FIELD Roy Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''The Charms of Music'"' April 29, 1966 Glenda G. Thompson, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: 'In celebration of our fifth birthday, we wished to do something special and really nice. We thought we would like to include all our families and friends to enjoy this special event with us. We presented a musical program "The Charms of Music.' This program was very well received, and was well attended. Ninetytwo sisters in the Singing Mothers chorus were wonderful, and the guest artists were outstanding. We were happy to have with us Sister Cleone Rich Eccles of the General Board of Relief Society. The excellent program was arranged by June Heiser, chorister, with Feola Barton as organist." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention April 28, 1966 Front row, left to right, visiting teachers honored for the most years of service, left to right: Kathleen Reese; Alice R. Rich; Ruby Forsgren; Lavina Thomas; Aurilla Hansen. Members of the Box Elder Stake Relief Society Board are seen standing in the second row; in the back row are the characters from the Brigham City Eleventh Ward who presented the play "Beyond Each Door." Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The play 'Beyond Each Door, by Alberta H. Christensen, was presented under the direction of the Eleventh Ward Relief Society President Vonda Cheney. The play was enjoyed by a large number of visiting teachers. We were all thrilled with the Singing Mothers from the Sixth Ward who sang 'God Is Ever Beside Me,' and 'A Visiting Teacher's Prayer.' They were under the direction of Marie M. Hyde, accompanied by Juanita Steffen. The visiting teachers honored for many years of service were each presented with a corsage. The stake board served refreshments to all attending." Beaver Stake (Utah), Minersville Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers at Birthday Party March 17, 1966 Left to right: Cassie McKnight; Lucy Williams; Effie Marshall; Albateen Roberts; Ileen Jameson; Inez Carter; Edith Brad