[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 642 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

We are presently serving as missionaries in a small town in El Salvador. Several weeks ago we organized the Relief Society here in our branch. Every month when we receive the Magazine, the sisters are anxious to have us translate new recipes into Spanish so they, too, may enjoy the wonderful food ideas that are found in the Magazine. Of course, the missionaries receive their share of the benefits, as the sisters always want to try out their new dishes on us. We just received the good news from the mission president's wife that the Magazine will soon be available in Spanish for the sisters here in Latin America. We have received several subscriptions already, and the women here are really enthused about the idea of having the Magazine written in their own language. David F. Corrigan Erick Ronnie Soto Sonsonate, El Salvador In the May 1966 issue, Sister Leah Green expressed' beautifully the "Thoughts of a_ Latter-day Saint Mother.'' May I add my agreement to her heartfelt prayer. We are truly blessed sisters to have the opportunity to seek and receive guidance through the Holy Spirit towards being good wives and rearing our children as our Father in heaven would have us do. Being a convert of three years, and mother of four precious spirits, I am thankful for the gospel plan. Mrs. Laretta Johnson Napa, California I must thank Sister Margery S. Stewart for the heart-warming, inspirational story ''Wheat for the Wise'' (serial concluded in July 1966). I! Am sure if she realized the joy she has given so many, she would know, indeed, that she has stored up rewards in heaven. Verna V. Rogers Barstow, California 642 I am delighted with the lessons outline (in the June Magazine) for the coming season. I stand to be improved 100 per cent this year through the lessons. Every lesson is just what I have been needing. Mrs. B. V. Peterson Ottawa, Canada They say everyone has a "'look-alike," and after reading in the July Magazine the article "Songs My Mother Sang," I realize we may have, also, '"'doalikes."" The way this mother sang and the songs she sang were identical to the favorites of my family. I recall at Christmastime, I was training my daughter to dry the silverware, and the tune 'Silver Bells' was very popular. My lyrics went like this '"'Silverware. Silverware it's drying time in the kitchen...."" These melodious tones brought my young one running and smiling. Song had made work a joy. Mayda Reeves Idaho Falls, Idaho I thank you with gratitude and happiness for the article on "The Gleaners'' (June 1966, by Floyd Breinholt). It was one of the bright spots of my day, and I have turned to it many times since. One need of the women in the world today is a re-emphasis of the cultural aspects in this life of ours. We truly need to ponder more deeply the gentle beauty found in art. Kay Peterson Los Angeles, California Every month a Relief Society Magazine is being sent to me since years ago. I do love it, and today!I feel overwhelmed with joy receiving the Magazine from unknown sisters. Reading it improves my English language, and best of all, it leads me into a fine garden of heavenly flowers. Margarida Christina Larsen Londrina, Parana, Brazil
