[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 659 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
Birgit Nilsson, Swedish soprano, is rated by world-renowned critics as one of the greatest living vocal artists. She has sung in most of the world's famous opera houses, and her roles have included a wide variety of impersonations: Salome; Leonore (in ''Fidelio'); Amelia (in ''Ballo''); Lady Macbeth: Isolde; Brunhilde; Electra (in 'Idomeneo'); Elektra (by Richard Strauss); Elisabeth (in ''Tannhauser''); Agathe (in ''Freischitz''); and many others. She has mastered _ several languages, and her voice has been described as ''soaring and dramatic, supreme in tone and emotion. She has been placed in classification with such artists as Lehmann, Fremstad, Flagstad, and Nordica. Helen Klos, Long Island, New York, is noted for her driving skill and for her high safety record.
Each school day she drives a bus with sixty kindergarten children aboard. She insists that all the children sit quietly and keep their hands inside the car or bus. She is careful to adjust her speed to road and weather conditions. "If you are late, you can make it up,"' she says, ''but if someone is killed or injured, there will be no chance to make it up." Stephanie Sebastian, nineteen, Hollywood, California, is a featured pianist for the New York Philharmonic Young People's concerts, with Leonard Bernstein conducting. Carolyn Sadow, a librarian at the reference desk at the New York Public Library, is enthusiastic over her work in the field of ''facts and knowledge.'' She contrasts her present career with her former position in fashion advertising, as a change from a ''make-believe'' world to the challenging realm of reality. The Life of Emily Dickinson, by her brother Austin (Atheneum Press), is a delightful account of the home life and characteristics of a well-loved and much-admired poet, a biography '"'intended for all kinds of intelligent, perceptive people.'' Austin's appraisal of his sister is intensified by his consideration of her ''not only as a writer of poetry, but as a speaker of instant poetry." Nancy Larson, formerly of Magna, Utah, is assistant press attaché at the American Embassy in Rome, Italy. In order to improve herself for her position, she studies Italian two hours a day. Before going to Rome, Miss Larson was a White House secretary. Mary Hemingway, formerly a war correspondent in England, is a journalist of wide experience. Having lived in many parts of the world, she has concluded, about her fellow American women, that they are not 'gentle enough.'"' She feels that they would succeed better if they gave their menfolk ''more affection, support, and admiration." She also feels that all women should become expert cooks.