[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 713 | Home | Social Relations . . . From Virtue to Virtue | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 8 (Lesson 20 in Series)—From Virtue to Virtue Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons—1966: Lesson 18) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To point out that we attain perfection by progressing INTRODUCTION This December lesson, which is concerned with the _ spiritual growth of the individual, may appropriately be associated with Christmas time. At this season, when all Christendom memorializes the life and teachings of the Savior, we are reminded of the need for more spirituality in our daily lives. Latter-day Saints have an additional reason for contemplating upon the mission and teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ at Christmas time, for Joseph Smith, the latter-day Prophet who restored the gospel to earth was born in the month of December. FAITH AND SPIRITUALITY In any discussion of spirituality, faith in God is basic, for spirituality and faith are interrelated, inter-dependent, and inseparable. They constitute a cycle of enlightenment and power. As our faith deepens, we become more perceptive to things of the spirit; as our spirituality is thus increased, our faith is strengthened, becoming more positive as a guiding influence in our lives. The extent to which this faith Spiritually, from virtue to virtue. Leads to spiritual power is dependent upon our willingness to be led by the Holy Ghost and by our willingness to obey the commandments of God. FROM GRACE TO GRACE (Used in its meaning of virtue to virtue) We know that Jesus was with the Father in the pre-existent world as one of the Godhead, yet he was born in the flesh to live among men. It is relevant and of interest to know that, according to scripture, Jesus progressed from grace to grace. '"And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man" (Luke 2:52). "John [the apostle] thus attests the actuality of natural development in the growth of Jesus from childhood to maturity: 'And I, John, saw that he received not of the fullness at the first.... But continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness, "' (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, page 119). (See also D&C 93:2-18.) We note how the Prophet Joseph Smith, whose life and work are well known to all Latter-day Saints, also grew from 


 grace to grace. An early indication of his later capacity for a spiritual fulness is seen, perhaps, by the faith which led him to seek his Heavenly Father for spiritual guidance when only a youth. A study of the Prophet's life reveals the years of preparation —from the time of the First Vision through repeated visits of the angel Moroni, and to the completed translation of the ancient record. The Prophet's willingness to follow the instructions of the angel and other divine counsel, kept him in tune with his Heavenly Father. '""When he first began his work, he received his revelations with the aid of the urim and thummim. As he grew in spiritual power, he laid aside the aid. He, himself, had become a suitable and competent receiving apparatus. Thereafter, he enquired of the Lord, without outside aids, and he _ received answers" (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.:: An Understandable Religion, pages 8-9). EXPECTED OF US Our Heavenly Father expects us to grow in spiritual stature until perfection is _ ultimately achieved. He does not expect perfection in a day. Constant striving toward this goal is to be the road to perfection. Nor can we expect to attain perfection at once. We can, however, overcome our imperfections and progress virtue by virtue. In some areas of our living, we can achieve perfection now by obeying particular commandments to the full. For example, we can be perfect in the payment of our tithes. Thus step by step, virtue by virtue, we will 714 grow spiritually as we accept precept upon precept of his revealed word and that of his prophets and willingly keep these commandments. QUESTIONS 1. Do you think there is a greater need for spirituality in our personal lives today than in the time of our parents? Give reasons for your answer. 2. What are the temporal rewards to the individual of increased spirituality? 3. Is your own faith in God stronger today that it was five years ago? 4. How do experiences cause faith to fluctuate rather than remain stationary? THE QUALITY OF FAITH That there may be periods of greater and of lesser faith in one's life seem evident in the following case study dialogue: Woman A: I wish I had the faith you seem to have. If I did, I'd go to church regularly, too. Woman B: If you did go, perhaps you'd have a greater faith. Would you like to know about the growth of my faith? Woman A: Do you mean that your faith hasn't always been as strong as it is now? Woman B: I think that I have always had faith, but it has not always had the same quality that it has at present. I hope to keep it always as sustaining and strong as I feel that it is at present. [ll tell you about it. About three years ago, I felt that I wasn't growing spiritually. Although I knew the gospel was true, I felt that I was living in a valley of little faith, so to speak. I know now that my faith needed nourishment. Today, I feel substantially stronger spiritually. Woman A: Just what did you do to bring you to this state of greater faith? Woman B: First, I appraised my activities, and found that I was becoming lax about attending church. I was associating with good women, but they were not religiously inclined, simply not interested in_ spiritual matters. I listed these facts and then proceeded to correct them. Woman A: Specifically, what did you do? Woman B: (1) I renewed my acquaintance with some of my former friends who were active in the Church with whom I have much in common. (2) I began to attend church regularly, noting the commitments I was making as I partook of the sacrament: that I was willing to take upon me the name of the Son, whose blood was shed for us; that I might always remember him and keep his commandments. This made me consider my activities in relation to those commandments. Incidentally, I am now putting a number of them into full practice. (3) I listened to the testimonies borne by others and realized that I, too, shared blessings for which others expressed gratitude about which I remained silent and unresponsive. Strengthened and more confident from bearing my testimony in Relief Society, I, at last, gained courage to bear my testimony in sacrament meeting. (4) Wanting to know more about the gospel I heard about in church, I checked through our library, to find a number of books relating to the Church which I had never read. I have since spent many luxury-hours reading in these books, and I am amazed at the spiritual insight this reading is giving me. Woman A: Does a strong faith require so much cultivation? Woman B: I would say that it all depends upon the quality of faith you wish to have. A deep and sustaining faith in God does require much nourishment and dedication. Woman A: Do you consider it worth all the effort and dedication you are giving? Woman B: For me it is most rewarding. And I have felt sometimes of late, as one, who having climbed a high mountain, breathes in, for the first time, the fresh, exhilarating air of higher altitude. I look back with much regret upon those former years, although I always believed the gospel was true. At present I am experiencing a spiritual buoyancy,. Completely unknown to the unbeliever, and not to be found in the lowlands of mediocre living. LESSON DEPARTMENT CLASS ACTIVITY Suggest several activities, not mentioned by Woman B., which might build a stronger faith. Discuss other circumstances which might strengthen one's faith or otherwise influence the quality of one's faith. SPIRITUAL BUOYANCY What is this spiritual buoyancy which characterizes the follower of Jesus Christ, but which may not be found in the unbeliever? It is the compass of faith giving direction to a man's life, with courage to meet its vicissitudes. It is the expression of hope, sustaining in time of sorrow: the knowledge of life hereafter that bridges the barrier of death. It is the peace of mind that comforts those who share, one with another. It is the faith that led a boy of fourteen to pray for wisdom in a woodland grove; the dedication to belief that pushed a handcart over miles of prairie sand and over mountain pass to a desert valley. It is the testimony of the humble, filled with gratitude for the blessing of life. It is the song of Zion, triumphant and rejoicing. It is the knowledge that those who keep the divine commandments may know the glory of family continuity in the celestial kingdom. This is the spiritual buoyancy that the Latter-day Saints may radiate to the world! CLASS ACTIVITY From the foregoing paragraph, we list the following, as basic to spiritual buoyancy. You may wish to suggest others. Faith Obedience Courage Hope 


 Knowledge of eternity Peace of mind Dedication to belief Testimony Gratitude THE SPIRITUAL CHRISTMAS What has spirituality to do with Christmas, one might appropriately ask, seeing the rush and flurry of Christmas preparation, seeing the mercenary aspects so definitely emphasized? It has this to do: The Christian celebration of Christmas is based upon that most significant of spiritual happenings—the birth of the Son of God. Although the gospel is designed to bring temporal as well as spiritual blessings, when the materialistic and tangible are excessively emphasized, we may become blind to the spiritual world, deaf to the words of divine counsel, and indifferent to the joys of the more abundant life. The Christmas season may provide incentive for adults seriously to appraise the direction in which their lives are moving, and to discover the values that are important to them. What are you worshipping? Many today worship the golden calf. This appraisal may lead one to see that mere earthly pursuits often may lead to disillusionment and even to moral disaster. The Christmas season provides a very excellent opportunity for mothers to implant religious faith in children. With scenes of the nativity of Jesus, hearing again the story of angel voices that heralded the birth of the Christchild, their believing minds are receptive to the truth that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Savior of mankind. To keep this fact 716 uppermost in the minds of children, during the festive celebration of Christmas, is the concern of the mother. CLASS ACTIVITY Suggest ways by which you can keep the central theme of Christmas from being submerged in the materialistic activity of the holiday season. How can you open the hearts of children to the real spirit of Christmas so that Christ's teachings may speak to them and admonish them to: 1. Be a peacemaker. 2. Think kindly thoughts. 3. Be charitable with others—kind to those who may not be their particular friends. 4. Be true to what they believe. 5. Be courageous against wrongdoing and injustices wherever they see them. 6. Believe with all their hearts that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is Christ the Lord. For eyes that can see beyond the ribboned gift and _ tinseled tree, there is a wide horizon for the spirit, where the real significance of Christmas is revealed in truth and beauty. The mother whose spirituality impresses her with this truth, may lead her children to see that the gift of gifts, which cannot be _ tissuewrapped and placed beneath a Christmas tree, is the gift of immortality, made possible by the sacrifice of Jesus, who is the Christ, the Savior, the Redeemer of mankind. Does not the entire family become spiritualized where the mother takes time, even during the rush of Christmas preparations, to share with her children the wonder of the star, to help them better to know the Boy who stayed within the temple court among the rabbis, when the feast was done? There is need for faith to fortify our youth, as well as to sustain those of mature years in today's world of war and stress. Might not the mother say to a departing, patriot son: My son—if ever you should stand As one alone, upon an alien hill While nuclear weapons threaten and confuse, Thinking of home, the long night white and still— You need not stand—a cynic, need not see How doubt cuts deeper than the Herod blade, Or know how dark the skeptic's world can be. Turn back the parchment page and memory-trace His gentle steps beside an inland sea, Follow the multitude on Jordan's plain Who know his healing power; there observe The sick made whole and breath renewed, at Nain. His every word, in each familiar place— Nazareth... Bethsaida Jerusalem— Will fall into a pattern of belief, The outline luminous and stencilclear, Bright as the noon on hills of Ephraim; A testament of truth in bold relief. Hold his words close, my son, and you will be Faith led, as shepherds were, when roused from sleep LESSON DEPARTMENT By angel-words, above the folds of sheep. (From "Christmas Words—for Today and Tomorrow," by ALBERTA H. CHRISTENSEN ) FOR DISCUSSION How do Lesson 3 "Personal Standards" and Lesson 4 "Seek and Ye Shall Find" relate to this lesson on spiritual development? (See the Relief Society Magazine, December 1965 and January 1966.) FOR HOME DOING 1. Read the 1965 Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum lesson No. 18, if available. 2. If possible, have an old-fashioned Christmas Eve, by reading aloud the story of the first Christmas Eve, as found in Luke, Chapter 2. 3. Give the gift of yourself, in a manner you have never before done, to someone less fortunate than yourself. 4. Make your home happy this Yuletide season with the sound of Christmas music that will help set a spiritual climate and leave the heart spiritually refreshed. NOTES TO CLASS LEADER All ideas and illustrations appearing in this lesson contribute to the general objective. The class leader, however, may wish to emphasize some of them even to the exclusion of others as she adapts the lesson material to her particular group. Those residing in the Southern Hemisphere who will study this lesson in May, may resolve to follow the suggestions personally at Christmastime in 1967, when the 1967 educational year has been completed. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season.

717 SEE THE WITH Cleon Skousen OCT.
