[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 660 | General Feature | Editorial: Development Through Service | Marianne C. Sharp]
[Editorial: Development Through Service Marianne C. Sharp]

EDITORIAL 

 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Etna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner trene C. Lioyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Beilva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West @ At the organization of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "*... It is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms." Some Latter-day Saint women looking at the work of Relief Society decide, ''I'll not join Relief Society for they expect too much of the members." It is true that membership in Relief Society, whose motto is "Charity never faileth,'' does impose on all members a dedication to service. Wise is the woman who joins relief Society joyfully, who has accepted the obligations and is prepared to perform the duties requested of her, whether it be calling on sisters in the homes as a visiting teacher, comforting the sorrowing and assisting at funerals, accompanying someone to the doctor's office, caring for children whose mother is sick or hospitalized, serving in the Relief Society nursery, cooking, or decorating tables, washing dishes, visiting the sick and homebound, sitting up at night with the sick, sewing for a Through S a oo? Ervice bazaar, demonstrating teaching a skill she may possess, singing in a Singing Mothers chorus, canning or sewing for Welfare, or teaching a class. These and other duties come to members as directed by the Relief Society president. They all involve work, some of it hard work, some wearisome. Some duties tax the abilities of the giver and cause her to go beyond herself. But after the work come the blessings. A warm glow of satisfaction for the work accomplished, a deepened awareness of the viewpoint or even suffering of others, a fulfilling of the need of another. Greater understanding leads within the door of wisdom. The grand key words for the Society to act upon, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, are, ''Said Jesus, Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'' Can one imagine any service which the Lord, who gave his life for man, would refuse to give — the Savior who said "'... Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant'"' (Matt. 20:26)? Experience teaches that the best way for a woman to overcome her own sorrows and trials is to turn her attention to one less fortunate, to serve others. Service brings healing to the heavy heart. The sympathies which God has planted in his daughters' bosoms are enlarged through serving the organization which the Lord has given to his daughters. Sympathy expressed in a tangible way buoys up the spirit of the giver. Each unselfish service, each comforting assurance, each labor of love to lighten the load of the unfortunate, distressed, sorrowing, needy, the disheartened, strengthens character and raises a bulwark and a safeguard against sins so prevalent in the world today — sins of indifference, insensitivity, callousness, and selfishness.

Consecration to service brings personal growth and refines, develops, and nourishes the soul of a woman. —M. C. S. 661 VISUAL AIDS—SPIRITUAL LIVING COURSE A picture kit has been prepared to correlate with the Spiritual Living lessons at a cost of $1.25 postpaid (not air mail). Orders are to be placed direct with the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110. CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEXTBOOK AND AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS A one-year textbook, Out of the Best Books, Volume Il: "'Love, Marriage, and the Family,'"' by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas is now available for use with the Cultural Refinement course. Orders for the textbook should be placed direct with the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and will be filled as soon after the first of September as possible. The price of the textbook is $2.95 postpaid. (not air mail) A kit (containing four colored pictures 11" x 14'') and a 33-4 LP record, which will contain musical selections that correlate with the Cultural Refinement course, are available for purchase at the Division of Communications Services, 291 HRCB, Brigham Young University