[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 688 | Home | Woman With Plants Grant Wood 689-690 Commentaries on Paintings Floyd | E. Breinholt]
Courtesy Cedar Rapids Art Center, Cedar Rapids, Iowa "Woman With Plants" by Grant Wood This painting is to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7—'Wisdom Teaches Right," for the fourth meeting in May 1967 (Northern Hemisphere); and September 1967 (Southern Hemisphere). See discussion of painting on page 689. 688 "Woman With Plants' by Grant Wood (1892-1942), American (Cedar Rapids Art Association, Cedar Rapids, lowa) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7— ''Wisdom Teaches Right"' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University One cannot look at the "Woman with Plants" without feeling that here is a woman who exemplifies the statement, 'the salt of the earth,' and showing greatness, strength, wisdom. She seems visually to portray Dr. Bruce Clark's definition of wisdom at its highest: "It is knowledge, experience, and insight combined, anchored in faith, and enlightened by inspiration." We are advised diligently to seek wisdom from all sources—''knock and _ it shall be opened unto you, seek and ye shall find." We are not told that it will be easy to find, but we are told that it will be of great worth. It is interesting to note that the life of Grant Wood seems to follow this injunction. He worked hard as a youth, supporting himself from the age of ten. He taught himself to draw. When he decided to become an artist, he was plagued with a feeling of inferiority culturally because of his background, and felt that he was not proceeding properly because of his lack of training. But he worked. He studied in Europe a number of times, trying to acquire the culture and methods of the Impressionists, each time falling short of his goal, but continually trying to find himself. Then, suddenly, as if by a flash of revelation, he became a painter of the American scene and its people who has no equal. He used his own rural background, he discovered the beauty and truth which had always been around him, and of which he was a part. He struggled, he worked, he looked, he sought, and, finally, it was given to him. This painting is a portrait of his mother, a pioneer woman. We see in it his affection for her, her stately humility, experience, forbearance, and one who has lived much, learned much, given much, received much, and is wise. No doubt Grant Wood was not aware at the time he painted this portrait that it would achieve fame. Yet one cannot help but sense that he received much personal gratification from the fact that he now knew he could be true to himself, could exercise the gift that he had received, and in his own peculiar manner present that which was his alone to give.,