[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 692 | Home | Ellis F. Nielsen— Maker of Toys, Pillows, and Quilts | Lesson Department]
_; + wed r¢ nie Ellis Farnsworth Nielsen, El Paso, Texas, daughter of pioneers who were creators of beauty in the wilderness, has made hundreds of handicraft articles which represent her love of beauty, and the exactness of her artistic techniques. A recent specialty has been the making of pillows, baby quilts, and beautiful! Dolls to delight the children and decorate the nursery and the bedrooms. As a quilter and designer of quilts, Sister Nielsen has contributed hundreds of hours of time and many quilts to Relief Society. She has taught the fine art of quilting in several wards and has served as quilting chairman. Sister Nielsen has developed her outstanding leadership and executive talents by serving as counselor and as president in ward Relief Societies, and her long years of devotion as a visiting teacher have been a comfort and an inspiration to women in many wards. She has also been a teacher in MIA and in Primary. Always sensitive and obedient to the needs of her numerous friends and relatives, she has rejoiced in her abundant opportunities to be useful, as she says, ''among the daughters of Zion,'' and in further fields of service. - 692 @ As though sensing my need of something to divert me from my afflictions and tiredness, little birds of various kinds and colors gather daily to frisk about and feed just outside my north window. Here they eye me speculatively. Countless seeds have been scattered here from weeds that have been allowed to creep closer and closer, encroaching upon my dwelling through the long period of my illness. Yesterday I had the good fortune to witness a one-bird drama, when a large dove, alone by itself, waddled in on the scene. What a fat bird! Was my instant reaction. What a meat pie for the hunter! Never had I seen a dove before that appeared so strangely and uncommonly buxom. Its feathers were a trifle ruffled, as if through a slight contact with a cat or other foe. Its tail feathers seemed slightly separated from the pinions of its body. A fluffy row of off-white feathers was revealed, protruding daringly from under its left wing.