[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | May | Issue: 20 | Title: ELIZABETH ALLRED. | Author: Unknown]

ELIZABETH ALLRED.
	In loving remembrance of Sister Elizabeth
Allred, wife of Bishop J. A. Allred, and a faith-
ful Counselor in the presidency of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, associated also with
Sister Sarah Peterson, which place she filled
honorably until her death; she was ever a wise
Counselor. Her demise occured February
22nd, 1892, of pneumonia, at her residence in
Spring City, at the age of 69 years. As a kind
neighbor, faithful counselor and a true friend,
I regarded her with the utmost love and affec-
tion, and on my return home after an absence
of four months I shall miss her society and
companionship more than I can tell, as she was
always one of the first to welcome me whenever
I had been absent.
	Sister Allred was also my Counselor in the
Relief Society at Spring City, Sanpete Co., in our
first Society there many years previous to the
Stakes organization, and I mourn her loss most
deeply and sincerely though I feel assured she
has gone to a better world where all care and
suffering is over and the weary are at rest.
	She has left a host of friends, for whom she
always had a smile and a kind word, whatever
her own troubles might be. She never ceased
to mourn the loss of her only son, Stephen, who
was accidentally killed by the train at Thistle
Station in Dec. 1890, more than a year previous
to her death, leaving a very numerous family

[Column 2]

to whom she was much attached and for whom
she had the tenderest sympathy.
	She was always a faithful wife and mother,
seeking every opportunity to promote the hap-
piness and comfort of the family of her hus-
band, ever their true nurse in sickness, affliction
and trials, watching over them with all the
care and anxiety of a true mother and wife,
ready and willing at all times to sacrifice her
own comfort for their benefit. Together with
her husband, she entertained their friends and
neighbors in the most hospitable manner.
	Sister Allred will be greatly missed as a
representative woman in Sanpete Stake, having
been in the habit of traveling and meeting
with the sisters in the various localities for the
last ten or eleven years; but she has gone from
our midst, and we will see her dear face no more
in our assemblies; but let us, my sisters, emu-
late her noble example that we may be pre-
pared to dwell with her and the many loved
ones who have passed behind the vail. Rest
in peace, dear sister, and may we meet again
where there shall be no more sad partings.
		M. A. P. HYDE.


