[Vol10 | February 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April - Lesson IV - Social Service - The D]
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth week in April) THE DANGERS IN COURTSHIP To protect their sons and daughters from sin is the greatest concern of parents. MODESTY AND DIGNITY IN COURTSHIP The. Modesty with which our parents have always treated the matter of sexual life has been in itself a protection against vice and immorality. The present tendency to discuss openly the great reproductive function should by no means lead to the breaking down of the taboo which has in the past prevented dangerous familiarity in both words and acts. It has prevented improper stories from being told by men in the presence of women. It has prevented women from improperly exposing their bodies. It has suppressed vulgarity of every sort. Modesty and dignity are virtues inasmuch as they protect the sacredness of the human body, guard the mind against immoral thoughts and keep the soul unspotted from the sins of the world. "Certain abstinences," says Drake, "that might not seem in themselves important, are necessary. Little familiarities, kisses and caresses, must be avoided; they are a playing with fire; and the youth never knows when the electric thrill will vibrate through his being, awakened by a touch, that will summon him to a new world wherein he must not yet enter. The finest men do not take these liberties, nor do well-bred girls permit them nor respect those who seek them. Vulgar jokes and stories must be despised, as well as all allusions to vice as a natural or amusing thing.' "—Drake, Problems of Conduct. Pp. 218. THE STRANGER... So frequently has our indignation been aroused by the conduct of men who come into our communities and prey upon the ignorant 
 and innocent, that we have sometimes been led to question the moral character of all strangers who come to our towns. Perhaps - a small minority only of strangers are a moral menace to our communities. The wholesale condemnation of a class of people is no solution to the problem. What parents must insist upon is that the stranger be not given a place of confidence until his character ls known. As long as he is a. Stranger, he should not receive unrestricted privileges in the association of our daughters. High regard for the reputation of our daughters will dictate reasonable precautions. For example, it is certainly improper for parents to permit their daughter to go out for an evening auto ride with a man who has been in the community one, two, or three days and. Of whose character nothing really is known. In fact, we may very properly question the advisability of inviting a stranger into our parties unless one is there to vouch for his character. The fact that a man is a stranger in a community makes him feel less responsible for his conduct. He is there for a short time; in two or three days he may be many hundred miles away. He may never see the result of his conduct. He does not expect to see again the people whose lives. He may have injured. INSINCERITY IN COURTSHIP One reason why young people treat courtship too lightly is the fact that insincerity has been accepted as a sort of necessary evil. A flirt, for example, is thought to be clever and is admired by her friends. Frequently we hear men boast of their success in winning the hearts of young women for whom they care very little. "But why," says Henderson, "should a sacred tree be planted and made to grow until its tree form is necessary to the mind and its roots are deep in the earth, only to pluck it up, bleeding away its life, and leave it to perish. Is there anything honorable in the boast of conquest?"—Henderson: Social Duties, p. 26: To break a human heart is indeed a sinful act, but flirtation leads to a more grievous sin. When dishonesty and deceit is once admitted by a young man as proper in the sacred field of courtship, it may not be long before he will go further. The man who will treat lightly a woman's heart, deceive her to satisfy his own fickle nature, may sacrifice even higher womanly values to promote his own selfish impulses. When we trust a man or woman it is because he or she stands for principle and lives above selfish interests. Courtship has revealed virtues of the highest order in the form of devotion and self-sacrifice. But, on the other hand, it has also revealed some of the most cruel and selfish acts that human nature is capable of. THE WAGES OF SIN IS DEATH "Death" is a mild term to express the consequences of immorality. Many times worse than death are the physical and mental defects which follow such a life. Many times worse than death is the sorrow that comes to innocent wives and children. Besides this there are many thousands of children who are blind or physically deformed because of sexual disease contracted by immoral parents. Many go through life cursed with the disgrace of illegitimacy. Thousands of homes are broken up and children deprived of parental protection. The finer moral sentiments, the higher spiritual interests of life are deadened in this way. The word of the Lord in modern revelation concerning those who commit the sexual sins is indeed true: According to revelation they, "shall be destroyed in the flesh and shall be delivered unto the buffetings of Satan unto the day of redemption." Doc. And Cov. 132:26. THE SWEETNESS OF A PURE LIFE Contrast the misery of a life of sin with the blessing of pure lives so beautifully described by Drake: "When the veil of mystery is not too rudely drawn aside, the ability to respond to the charm of girlhood and of ripe womanhood may be long retained; the pleasures of sex that count for most in the end are not the moments of passion, but the daily enjoyment of companionship with the opposite sex, the assurance and comfort of mutual fidelity, the love that feeds on daily caresses, endearing words, and acts of tender service. And these lasting joys do not accrue to the man or woman who ls not willing to wait, or who squanders his potentialities of love in reckless and fundamentally unsatisfying debauchery. This is the paradox of love; whoso find its best gifts must be willing to deny himself its gaudest. The old love of twos, the loyalty of man and wife that bring fo each other pure hearts and bodies, is best."—Problems of Conduct, Drake, p. 216-217. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Why is modesty so important in courtship? 2. President Joseph F. Smith once said that the kiss is a sacred act and belongs exclusively to the family. Justify his position. 3. What attitude is generally taken toward the flirt in your community? 4. Show that insincerity in courtship may lead to unchastity. 5. What is the proper attitude toward a stranger who seeks fo take your daughter out for an evening automobile ride?
