[Vol19 | July 1932 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi Vilate Elliot]
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi By Vilate Elliot
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was born in 1868 in Western India, he is a Hindu of the Jain faith. The term Mahatma, by which he is known, means Great Soul. It is a title of reverence conferred upon him. Gandhi's father was a chief official in his native state, he came from a family of well-to-do middle class people. At eighteen Gandhi went to London to study law, he passed his examinations, and was admitted to the bar and returned home to practice, but he disliked the methods used by most of the lawyers of his time.
He was called to South Africa. Previously some one hundred and fifty thousand Indians had moved to South Africa; they were in difficulty with the native people and called upon Gandhi to defend their legal rights. Gandhi remained in Africa for twenty years; he says it was the turning point in his life. He believes religion is service and his should be service to India—this would bring self realization and a knowledge of God. He practiced his doctrines of non-violence and passive resistance in Africa, and in the end was victorious. These events shaped his career and his philosophy of life.
It must be remembered his spiritual roots go back to Indian religious traditions which are derived from Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism. The cardinal tenet of these religions is a reverence for all life, sexual restraint and abstaining from intoxicants. A major influence in his life came from two women—his mother and his wife.
Gandhi became comparatively wealthy, while he was still a young man. He had an income of $20,000 a year but he gave it all away and took a vow of poverty. He says his lifelong quest is for self-realization and a desire to identify himself with his poor and downtrodden fellow countrymen. He wears a loin cloth because so many Indians cannot afford to wear more. The British judge who sentenced him to imprisonment said, "Those who differ from you in politics look upon you as a man of high ideals and of noble and saintly life."
His philosophy is service to truth as he sees it. It includes: (1) Ahinsa, which means love, (2) Chastity, (3) Restraint of the palate, (4) Abstaining from the possession of things for themselves, (5) One's bread must be earned by the sweat of the brow, (6) Services to his neighbors is man's primary duty, (7) Belief in equality of all mankind, (8) Belief in the equality of the world's great faiths, (9) Fearlessness.
Professor Wadia says that Gandhi's greatest service to India is teaching them to conquer fear. The people have been paralyzed with fear—fear of police, fear of the military, fear of public opinion, fear of social ostracism, fear of ghosts, fear of shadows; political and social reforms have been paralyzed from fear.
Gandhi says there is only one God for us all, whether we find Him through the Bible, Koran, Gita or Talmud,—He is a God of love and truth. He says he does not hate the British, he likes them but dislikes their system in India. He has many influential friends in England, among them Ramsay McDonald, Sir Gilbert Murray, Josiah Wedgewood and a score of others.
Dr. Sherwood Eddy, an English member of the National congress held at Lahore, India, says, "I went to say good bye to Gandhi, the multitude thronged about upon him, I saw men's faces alight with a love I have never seen for any other human being."
One day a week Gandhi devotes to uninterrupted silence, he meditates all day. His six working days are spent thus—prayer at four a. m., work until nine, bath, breakfast of goat's milk and fruit, more work, an hours nap at noon, spinning until five p. m., more goat's milk and fruit, a walk, prayer at seven, meditation until ten when he retires.
Gandhi's house is extremely plain; it is surrounded by a simple garden, a few trees, a little grass and a few flowers. The inside is simpler still. His own room contains nothing but a little table about ten inches high, this is his writing desk at which he works squatting on the floor.
Spinning is his favorite pastime. Gandhi says, "Every Indian peasant must spin, it is through the spinning wheel that I keep in touch with the poorest of the poor and through them with God."
Gandhi favors more liberty for women, he says, "The barbaric custom of purdah, which prevents a woman from showing her face to any man except her father and her husband must be stopped."
Gandhi has no bodyguard, he says, "God alone keeps vigil over me." "The day that my inner voice tells me my country no longer needs me I will starve myself to death * * * the day India abandons the principle of non-violence, I shall let my fragile body perish."
This picture of Gandhi shows us a mixture of humility, asceticism and passionate sincerity which makes him a difficult person to be dealt with by hardheaded British. While he is gentle, modest, unassuming, courteous, and abhors violence, yet he has stirred three hundred million people to revolt and has shaken the foundations of the British Government.
The five rules of Mahatma Gandhi are:
1. The vow of truth.
2. The vow of non-violence,—you must not be angry with the unjust, you must love them. Oppose tyranny. Do not hurt the tyrant, conquer him by love, suffer punishment even unto death for disobeying his will. Sacrifice and willing suffering is the spirit of Ahinsa.
3. The vow of non-stealing. It is theft if we use articles we do not really need.
4. The control of the Palate. Regulate and purify the diet, leave off food that may tend to stimulate animal passions.
5. Vow of self-control. It is not enough not to look upon a woman with a lustful eye. Animal passion must be controlled, so it will not even be in thought.
6. Vow of non-acquisition. It is not enough not to be acquisitive, but it is necessary not to keep anything which may not be absolutely necessary for our bodily wants. Think constantly of simplifying life.
Gandhi has taught the Hindu to endure blows from police and to fold their arms and take their blows without protest. He is breaking down religious and race prejudices, Hindu, Moslem, Christian, Jew and Parsee lie side by side in the hospitals all suffering from the wounds of police, eating from the same dishes and drinking from the same vessels. He has also taught them to boycott all British made goods such as machinery, automobiles, drugs, radios and above all English made cottons.
Gandhi's methods are a two-edged sword of non-cooperation and non-violence. Where force would lose, gentleness wins. He symbolizes the terrific might of meekness. One of his first announcements after being released from prison was that the campaign of civil disobedience against British rule must go on.
Caste originally meant color, it is said the Aryans erected it in remote ages to protect their people from the earlier races in India. The Aryans were fair haired and blue-eyed. The primitive races were very dark so in this respect the Aryans were the first white race to conquer India.
There are four castes:
1. Brahman or priestly caste.
2. Warrior caste.
3. Caste of traders and tillers of the soil. These three castes are known as the Twice-Born and are entitled to wear the Sacred Thread.
