[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: MAGAZINE CIRCULATION Vol]
572 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1947 
vances.  The  real  strength  of  that  institu- 
tion rested  in  the  honesty — the  absolute 
integrity — of  its  clerks   (pp.  13-15). 
What  Statement  Do  We  Have 
Which  Shows  the  Lattei-day  Saint 
Belief  in  Honesty? 
As  Latter-day  Saints  we  believe  in 
adhering  to  honesty  in  all  its  varied 
phases.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
in  giving  a  brief  summary  of  our  be- 
liefs, stated,  among  other  things, 
"We  believe  in  being  honestf  true, 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in 
doing  good  to  all  men  .  ..."  (13th 
Article  of  faith). 
What  Does  It  Mean  to  Be  Honest 
With  One's  Self? 
Being  honest  with  one's  self  is  a 
noble  ambition.  It  means  living  up 
to  one's  highest  ideals.  It  means 
not  succumbing  to  petty  practices 
(even  though  they  might  never  be 
discovered  by  others )  that  may  jeop- 
ardize one's  reputation  or  character, 
or  that  may  injure  someone  else.  It 
was  Shakespeare  who  said:  "To 
thine  own  self  be  true,  And  it  must 
follow,  as  the  night  the  day,  Thou 
canst  not  then  be  false  to  any  man." 
No  matter  what  the  world  thinks  of 
us,  we  must  live  with  ourselves  and 
a  clear  conscience  is  worth  more  than 
all  the  money  or  power  in  the  world. 
The  business  man  who  misleads  or 
overcharges  and  then  salves  his  con- 
science with  the  doctrine  that  such 
practices  are  necessary  in  business,  is 
untrue  to  himself  and  to  others.  The 
politician  who  shifts  and  stalls  to 
keep  in  the  good  graces  of  different 
groups,  that  he  may  benefit  personal- 
ly, is  a  menace  to  society.  The  person 
who  adroitly  phrases  a  statement  to 
give  the  wrong  impression  is  un- 
truthful in  a  very  cowardly  way.  Wil- 
liam George  Jordan  says: 
He  who  is  careless  of  his  appointments 
is  the  thoughtless  thief  of  another's  time. 
The  man  who  makes  truth  his  watchword 
is  careful  in  his  words,  he  seeks  to  be  ac- 
curate, neither  understanding  nor  over- 
coloring.  He  never  states  as  a  fact  that  of 
which  he  is  not  sure.  What  he  says  has  the 
ring  of  sincerity,  the  hallmark  of  pure  gold. 
If  he  praises  you,  you  accept  his  statement 
as  "net,"  you  do  not  have  to  work  out  a 
problem  in  mental  arithmetic  on  the  side 
to  see  what  discount  you  ought  to  make 
before  you  accept  his  judgment.  His 
promise  counts  for  something.  .  .  .  His 
honesty  is  not  policy.  The  man  who  is 
honest  merely  because  it  is  "the  best  pol- 
icy" is  not  really  honest,  he  is  only  politic. 
Usually  such  a  man  would  forsake  his  seem- 
ing loyalty  to  truth  and  would  work  over- 
time for  the  devil — if  he  could  get  better 
terms. 
Man  is  usually  loyal  to  what  he  most 
desires.  The  man  who  lies  to  save  a  nickel, 
merely  proclaims  that  he  esteems  a  nickel 
more  than  he  does  his  honor.  He  who  sac- 
rifices his  ideals,  truth  and  character,  for 
mere  money  or  position,  is  weighing  his 
conscience  in  one  pan  of  scale  against  a 
bag  of  gold  in  the  other  (The  Power  oi 
Truth,  pp.  5-8). 
Can  the  Golden  Rule  Be  Used  as  a 
Guide  to  Honesty? 
The  Savior  gave  us  a  yardstick 
with  which  to  measure  honesty.  It  is 
so  simple  that  even  a  child  can  under- 
stand it,  and  yet  the  whole  world  is 
suffering  today  from  the  lack  of  its 
application.  It  is  stated  in  what  is 
commonly  referred  to  as  the  Golden 
Rule:  "Therefore  all  things  whatso- 
ever ye  would  that  men  should  do  to 
you,  do  ye  even  so  to  them. . ." 
Is  it  a  Form  of  Dishonesty  to 
Neglect  Church  Obligations? 
One  phase  of  dishonesty  is  re- 
vealed in  the  matter  of  how  we  carry 
out  our  obligations  to  the  Lord, 
although  many  do  not  look  upon  it 
in  that  light.  When  we  become  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  we  are  under  ob-