[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1887 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE Women of ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or ALL NATIONs" THE LAND OF YESTERDAY Alas, we never, never more may stand Again within the Land of Yesterday  Never may hope to clasp with eager hand The days that were too bright, too sweet to stay! But, lest our sinking hearts should wholly die, There comes the promise of a dawn so bright That all the mists and all the gloom will fly, And all sorrow pass in golden light.  A. L. B. CHARITY: Why is it that women have so little charity for one another?.... The God who measures our charities is able to look beyond the action to the motive which first prompted that action. In his eye, the widow's mite counted for much, simply because it was given freely.... Giving our goods is only one way of showing that we possess charity. To me, it seems that generous sympathy, freely expressed in time of sickness or trouble, where no material help is needed, will be accounted to us for charity.  Emma M. Myers. SCHOOL: In the last century wonderful improvements have been made in regard to establishing and improving the system of schools... The diffusion of knowledge, through the medium of schools, has now become general in all enlightened countries.  Selected.
EDITORIAL THOUGHTS: The first great prophet of this dispensation said, in language not to be mistaken, get knowledge from the best books. The Latter-day Saints should certainly be the best informed of any people on the face of the earth, but it is not expected that knowledge will be gained without an effort on the part of the individual.  E. B. W. Fear not, ye Saints you who indeed Are living as the Lord requires, To sacred cov'nants giving heed, And every word which God inspires. E. R. S. S. ITEMS FROM UTAH STAKE: The Relief Society conference of this stake was held last week. We had good meetings, good and timely instructions. Much was said concerning our children. I feel it is a day of warning to the saints, as well as to the outside world, and we should be on the alert in word and deed to forward the cause of the kingdom of God on earth Mary John. -  a It is better to be nobly remembered than nobly born Ruskin.