[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Choosing a Jennings]

work, whatever it was, to attend meeting, where they opened their hearts to one another in testimony, and were comforted and uplifted. Conferences, ward, stake, and general, provided opportunity for broader experiences, for widening horizons, and for general standardization of work. Most of the pioneers were familiar with the Bible. It, with other Church works, was found on the old center tables in the parlors. One of the vivid memories of the writer is that of her mother reading aloud 
  SEPTEMBER 1947 LESSON DEPARTMENT from the large, attractive, old "Family Bible," with its heavy cover and large print, and quoting lovely passages from it to fit any conversation. The "Family Bible" was sacred, not only because it was holy scripture, but because it contained the vital statistics of the family, such as marriages, births, and deaths. With all the duties and heavy responsibilities of the pioneers, they did not forget nor overlook the importance of missionary work, in accordance with the command of the Savior, "Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature" (Mark 16:15). 641
Men responded promptly to calls to serve as missionaries, even in their darkest, most trying days, leaving their homes and their families, at a time when they seemed to be in desperate need of life's bare necessities. The faithful, understanding wives and children, however, supported their husbands and fathers in this great and vital service. Suggestions for Discussion Let the teachers: a. Tell of religious activities in their own pioneer homes and communities; b. Tell of early missionary experiences of members of their families.  Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2
Choosing a Pattern Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, November 11, 1947 CHOOSING a pattern for the garment to be made is a very important step in the process of acquiring something to wear, and, as many women have discovered, can be a very difficult task. A pattern well selected goes a long way toward insuring the success of the finished article. It is often very difficult for an inexperienced person, and sometimes even for one who has had extensive training, to visualize just how a certain fashion feature will look on her.
Often the attractive drawing of a dress on the figure in the fashion magazine bears little resemblance to the picture of the finished garment on oneself. We must remember that the pictures portray ideally proportioned figures which may be taller and slimmer than our own.
Unless you know how well you can wear a flared peplum, a cutaway jacket, a barrel sleeve, the new tiered skirt, or similar fashion foibles, you should, if possible, first try on garments that have these details before buying a pattern which features them. You may discover that your dreamed of dress is not for you. No matter how much you admire certain styles, you must leave them alone if they do not become you.
Strive always to suit your own personality in selecting your clothes.
When you go to the store to choose your pattern, keep in mind the following points: 1. Be sure the style you choose is appropriate to the occasions for which the dress is to be worn. 2.
Select a style that will be suitable for the material to be used. 3.
Suit the pattern to your figure type.
When we tell you to choose a style appropriate to the occasion, we suggest that you first take into consideration the type of life that you lead.
Simplicity is the keynote to a well-balanced wardrobe. By selecting simple lines and avoiding the pitfalls of too many intricate details, you can save yourself many disappointments and insure yourself of more happiness in wearing your clothes. In selecting a style appropriate to the material to be used, we suggest that you remember that cottons and washable materials should be made up in styles that are simple and easy to launder.
Soft silks, sheers, and jerseys lend themselves nicely to the currently draped and softened lines. Stiffer, heavier materials must be used for the more tailored styles and they depend largely on self-trim for interest. Last, but most important, is to suit the pattern to the figure type.
Strive to play up your good features and minimize your bad ones.
Large figures should avoid slick, shiny, heavily figured fabrics. 'They should also avoid styles with a great deal of detail or too many lines.
Slight figures can better use more elaborate features. If in doubt, be moderate. The first rule of good fashion is suitability and becomingness to you as an individual. Be true to yourself. If the current trends are unsuited to your particular type, stay in the conservative middle lane, and you will always appear more attractive.
Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 3
Types of Literature Found in the Doctrine and Covenants Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, December 16, 1947
Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of the various forms of literature contained in the revealed word of the Lord.