[Vol34 | September 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Rhythm Larkin]

Essentials in Home Training No social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine, as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season. IE RHYTHM Rosella F. Larkin The rhythmic beats of life go on, _ As waves upon the sea, And human life must play in tune In God's immensity. Molding Dems The University of Utah, this autumn quarter, will offer study in more departments than ever before. It is equipped and staffed to give your son or daughter an excellent background for a meritorious future.
Autumn quarter registration begins September 25
For information about autumn quarter classwork, address your inquiries to: Office of the President. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Salt Lake City 1, Utah NOW READY FOR DISTRIBUTION "Wist Ye Not That | Must Be About My Father's Business?" By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age An Important Reference in the Theology Course for 1947-48 $1.50
Postpaid Sold only at: General Board of Relief Society 28
Bishop's Building Salt Lake City 1, Utah All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society by the author Forward-- with Trained Hands Thorough business training is a profitable investment... Paying dividends throughout your working career... And you'll find excellent training facilities at the L. D S. Business College. Veterans: Accredited G. I. Training. Returned Missionaries: You are allowed special rates. Fall Term begins Tuesday, Sept. 2
Write for detailed information L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70
North Main = Salt Lake City 1, Utah A CCOMPLISHMENT should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top, many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished by the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is te help clients to plan printing that builds sales to take copy and dramatize it, make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a@ position to print your sales story so that it will get results. Y ow Kees Paws 29
Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah Page 648
You will marvel at the rich tones, easy control, full volume and handsome style Guaranteed  _ (Puce one forl0 years, too!
MAIL THIS COUPON
Please send full information about the Lester Betsy Ross Spinet and the $66.80 down payment plan. NAME ADDRESS).... Ccscocerencnccsucnsoen-00ne-tteneeane DAYNES MUSIC CO. 45-47 S. Main St. Salt Lake City 1
When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine _  For a Lifetime of Daily Reading Easy-To-Read.  @ CRYSTAL CLEAR No. 452. Leather, limp, gold edges lapping covers $12.50 KING JAMES VERSION National Bibles" SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE For New Pioneers... The Church University welcomes young Latter-day Saints who seek high standard university training in the finest social and spiritual environment. For admission to the University a new student must request an application blank and return it to the Admissions Committee one month before the opening of school. APPLICATIONS For Autumn Quarter, due now For Winter Quarter, due Dec. 1
New Students Orientation Sept. 26
Registration Sept. 29 and 30 BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH games and entertainments. CHURCH. *Plus 2% sales tax in Utah. LEARN CHURCH HISTORY WITH P/CTURES! Never before such an interesting array of colored pictures of events and characters significant in Church History. The set includes 96 colored 8" x 10" pictures, including the presidents of the Church, famous missionaries and pioneers, the Mormon Battalion, dramatic scenes, places and events of Church History, temples, monuments to L. D. S. Achievement, These pictures are excellent for teaching in Sunday Schools, Primaries, M. I. A.. Relief Societies, Priesthood classes; for personalized picture collecting hobbies, for writing your personalized history of the Church, for fireside attractions and for house