Charity Never Faileth THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Vol. VI. JUNE, 1919. No. 6. EDITORIAL. THE MOTHER OF GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. The Relief Society Magazine is pleased to present to its readers this month a sketch of the life of Sarah Farr Smith, the mother of Elder George Albert Smith, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. This sketch is written by Elder Smith himself, and is a beautiful tribute to a noble mother. It is a fitting addition to the series of articles on "Mothers of Our Leaders," which has been running in the Magazine for some time. The life of Sarah Farr Smith is a splendid example of the pioneer woman, who, with her husband, helped to lay the foundations of the Church in the West. Her life was one of industry, economy, and devotion to her family and to the Church. She was a woman of great faith and endurance, and her influence for good was felt not only in her own family but in the community in which she lived. The Relief Society Magazine is proud to honor her memory and to present her life story to its readers.

Charity Never Faileth

THE GENERAL BOARD

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President  
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor  
Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor  
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary  
Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary  
Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer  
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon  
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon  
Dr. Romania B. Penrose  
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox  
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde  
Mrs. Emily S. Richards  
Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley  
Miss Sarah Eddington  
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune  
Miss Lillian Cameron  
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie  
Miss Edna May Davis  
Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler  
Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry  
Miss Sarah McLelland  
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director  
Miss Edna Coray, Organist  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor........ Susa Young Gates  
Business Manager...... Janette A. Hyde  
Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman  
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah  

Vol. VI. JUNE, 1919. No. 6.

RECONSTRUCTION.

The result of any cataclysm such as the world has just passed through, necessarily leaves in its wake a vast trail of difficult problems and unsettled conditions. It is true that our own country has not been devastated as France and Belgium have been, nor have we approached the verge of bankruptcy, as perhaps England is doing. Yet the calling of 5,000,000 men from regular avenues of domestic and civil life, thrusting them into the preparation and conflict of war involves no light process of readjustment in order that these men shall be returned to social life without injury to themselves and their interests, and without loss to the people of the country. Moreover, the changing of manufacturing plants from the peaceable pursuits of ordinary life into institutions for the manufacture of strictly war materials, and vice versa, constitutes another problem in readjustment which statesmen must face. Added to this is the unbelievable increase of the credit system, which means that everybody is buying on credit — for that is what paper money is — which has caused prices to soar beyond the wildest dreams, while everybody clamors for lower prices on what is bought, yet all the workers want higher wages and salaries than has ever been earned in the history of the world. This reconstruction need is the foundation of our Fifth Liberty or Victory Loan, and there may be another in the future; while the vexing and difficult process of administering needed relief to families robbed of their wage-earners, through war's necessities, and finding profitable jobs for returned soldiers, hangs like a threatening cloud over the heads of civic relief workers and public officials. Then there is the sex problem. Women have crowded by the hundreds of thousands into the ranks of the wage-earners, and they are very loth to go back into their homes and become a seeming burden on the shoulders of men. They have tasted the sweets of financial and social independence and in most instances refuse to return to old conditions. The biggest problem of all, that which contains the germ of world-suicide, is the dissatisfaction of the working classes everywhere with existing conditions. Labor is not satisfied with more wages and shorter hours. Men feel that the crux of the labor problem lies in the ownership of the producing industry. They find themselves without power or influence in the matter of governing industries which they themselves create and continue. The human spirit, when released from the pressure of fear, rebels against any form of authority which is not delegated from itself; yet the masses of the people are the masses because they lack the initiative and creative governing power to organize and control human and mechanical forces. The whole world, therefore, is whirling around in this vortex of confusion and dismay. It may well be that all the prophecies made concerning this people shall be fulfilled in a shorter period of time than we now realize. We have all the foundation of truth with the basic principles which underlie the government of the world. The reconstruction question with you and me, however, is an individual question. Always keep that in mind, my sisters. The people in this Church and kingdom are the Church and kingdom, as the citizens of this Government are the Government. No stream rises higher than its source, and the strength of the chain is its weakest link. Look well to your individual link, that it shall be strong, not corroded with evil passions, rusted with envy, nor ground upon by the friction of sordid ambition and the lust for the vain things of this world. This is the message of reconstruction for this people: learn to construct and adjust all your own life-forces so that you shall be ready, not to drive and force men into the true Church and kingdom of God, but to lead them by loving them, to win them by serving them. The gospel is the plan under heaven by which men can be saved.

Germs and Disease.

Dr. Martin P. Henderson, Professor of Biology, B. Y. University, Provo.  
(This takes place of Guide Work for July.)

The existence of a world of microscopic life with its wonderful manifestations, was but vaguely suggested at the beginning of the Nineteenth century. Fermentations and decay were not understood. Disease was a mystery. Epidemics came and went without any apparent cause. Decaying organic matter had been observed to swarm with bacteria, but these were supposed to arise spontaneously as a product of the dead cells, and to take no part in causing the decay. Similar structures had been seen in the tartar from the teeth, but it was not supposed that these tiny organisms normally grow and reproduce in the human mouth. About the middle of the century, however, the question of the origin of these lowly forms engaged the attention and genius of the leaders in the fields of chemistry and medicine, and out of their controversies and experiments came a recognition of three fundamental facts: first, that these simple organisms do not arise de novo, from the air or from any other substance either organic or inorganic, but like all other living things must have their origin in antecedent parental forms; second, that fermentation, putrefaction and decay are results of the life activities of these forms; and third, that they are causative agents in diseases of plants and animals. Despite this information, which has been current for almost sixty years, and in the face of the certainty that a majority of our common contagious diseases are caused by germs, and that others on very good evidence are believed to be thus caused, the idea seems to prevail in the popular mind that an epidemic of disease, such as that of the past season, may arise spontaneously out of the air or have its origin in some other intangible manner. The disease germ is thought of as a mysterious something which as mysteriously transports itself from one person to another without the intervention of any material mediator. A germ is either a minute plant or animal. It differs from the higher forms of life primarily in its size and simpler organization. Usually it is a single cell, so small that hundreds or even thousands of them would have to be grouped together to form a mass of sufficient size to be visible. Germs are subject to the same laws of the universe and dependent upon the same principles of life as are higher organisms. Their need for food is no less imperative and their necessity for right conditions of temperature and moisture is just as real. They take food, grow and reproduce their kind. What constitutes them disease germs is the power which they have acquired to operate upon and within the human body and to draw from it the nutrients requisite for a complete cycle of life. They may be simple saprophytes such as the colon bacillus, which is always present but does not cause specific disease, active parasites which are able to wrest their nourishment from the living cells, or less virulent forms such as the pneumonia germs which attack the host only when he is weakened from some other cause. Germs may attack and destroy living tissues, as in the case of diphtheria bacteria in the lining of the throat, or the typhoid bacillus in the walls of the intestinal tract; they may remain localized as to place of development but in their operations produce poisons which are distributed by the blood to all parts of the body, as in diphtheria and lockjaw; or they may get into the blood stream and be carried to various parts of the body, as in syphilis and typhoid fever. Contagious germs develop normally only in connection with the body or its immediate wastes. When a person "catches" an infectious disease it means simply that the germ causing it has been transferred from an infected individual to a vulnerable portion of his own body, and finding there requisite environmental conditions, has established itself and is continuing its natural processes of growth and reproduction. The germ is not at fault any more than the weed is at fault in growing in the choicest spot of the garden. It is merely satisfying the greatest demand of its existence — the perpetuation of its kind. The transfer of germs from one individual to another takes place in a variety of ways all of which might be avoided, and which would no doubt be avoided, were the true significance of germs realized. But their small size makes them very difficult to study and entirely inaccessible, so far as the unaided senses of man are concerned. If it were possible to see them as they are in their normal places of growth, many of the practices of the present would be substituted by more sanitary ones, and many thoughtless acts would be discontinued. Suppose for example it were possible to see and recognize the myriads of living forms that swarm on the lips and in the mouth of a person infected with influenza, diphtheria, "colds" or tuberculosis, or suppose the individual could thus see himself. What would be the possibilities of quarantine? What would become of the habit of promiscuous kissing? Suppose such an infected individual could see these same forms swimming in the droplets of saliva as they issue in clouds from his mouth and bespatter his friends whenever he sneezes or coughs. Would he be guilty of performing these acts except behind his handkerchief or some other adequate screen? Imagine the possibilities, could a tuberculous individual see that the sputum from his mouth is filled with a writhing mass of living forms, the germs of this terrible disease. Would he be willing to take the risk of expectorating indiscriminately about him, either in private or public places, or would such a thing be at all permitted? Assume the results, were it possible for us all to really see the various forms of life which adhere to our hands, and recognize among them those that produce typhoid fever, diphtheria, tuberculosis or syphilis. Would the deplorable "hand to mouth" habit be continued? Would careless handling of articles touched by others particularly those infected with contagious diseases, continue? Suppose the possibility of seeing the millions of typhoid germs with their numerous whip-like swimming appendages, as they writhe and swarm in the feces of a typhoid patient, of watching these same germs as they are washed by the rains into the well or other water supply, and finally as they would appear in the glass of clear cold water on the table. Or imagine watching them taken up by the thousands on the body and feet of a fly and carried direct to the nearest kitchen where they are deposited on baby's "comfort," on his hands, on his lips, on the dishes, on various articles of food and finally washed off the insect by a bath in the milk. Would human excrement be left exposed? Would open privies be maintained? Would decaying or putrefying filth of any sort be permitted to encumber the premises? These are the things that are happening around us every day, but due to the natural limitations of vision, the majority of us do not see them except through the eyes of others. Shall we for that reason reject them? The day of preventive medicine is rapidly approaching. Will we hinder its approach by dogmatic persistence in theories and traditions of the past, or shall we rather hasten its coming by an intelligent acceptance and application of the truth as it is now known?

The House Fly.

Dr. Martin P. Henderson, Professor of Biology, B. Y. University, Provo.  
(This takes place of Guide Work for July.)

The fly is too cosmopolitan to require introduction, but in common with many other individuals often encountered in "polite society," it will probably be the less appreciated the more its history and habits are understood. Of the various kinds of flies commonly found in houses but one really deserves the name of "house-fly," since it represents rather more than 95 per cent of the entire number. A careful examination of its body reveals the fact that it could hardly have been better designed for the role of filth distributor. The head is composed mainly of two large compound eyes. These at first appear to be smooth but closer observation proves them to be dotted with myriads of fine hairs. In front, between the eyes are the antennae, the last joint of which bears a short feathery brush. Other parts of the head are provided with bristle-like hairs of varying lengths. From the under side of the head arises the proboscis. This is an elongated, fleshy tube covered with hairs on the exterior and expanded at the tip into two broad membranous lobes provided with many fine corrugated ridges. This structure is admirably fitted for sucking, and through it food is taken in a liquid or semi-liquid form. When hard substances, such as sugar, are to be taken up they are first moistened and dissolved "with vomit which is regurgitated from the crop" laden with germs and filth which have previously been sucked up. The body is densely covered with bristles and hairs of varying lengths, so arranged that they carry with them large quantities of any dirt or germs encountered. The wings, although apparently bare, have a very dense covering of fine hairs admirably suited to the collection of germs and filth. The legs are provided with bristles arranged in rows and interspersed with denser mats of fine, short hairs. The last joint of the foot bears at its tip two large curved claws and a pair of sponge-like pads from which project myriads of glandular hairs which secrete a substance by means of which the fly adheres to polished surfaces, a most admirable provision also for the collection and distribution of any kind of foul matter encountered. The fly's breeding habits likewise fit it for the role of filth distributor. Its eggs are laid in filth, the larvae or maggots wallow in filth, the pupae spend their "sleeping" period in filth, and the adults emerge laden with filth to begin their duties in a nearby household. Horse manure appears to be the favorite larval food, but when this is not immediately available it does not hesitate to appropriate to its needs any corrupt mass of organic material. It has been observed to breed in pig-, cow and chicken manure, in human excrement, in dirty waste paper, decaying vegetation, putrefying meat, slaughter-house refuse, sawdust sweepings, slops, fermenting vegetable materials, such as spent hops, bran and ensilage, and in rotting potatoes. The rate at which flies increase is astounding. A female deposits an average of one hundred twenty eggs at one time, and will produce at least two, and frequently four, such batches between April and September. In twelve to fifteen days the new adult generation is also ready to lay eggs so that ten to twelve generations may result from a single individual during a season. It has been estimated that the progeny of one female under favorable conditions would amount to hundreds of billions in a summer. The omnivorous habits of the "house-fly" are matters of every day observation. It has a keen sense of smell without any sense of decency — so is attracted alike by the delicate odors from the kitchen and the foul-smelling stenches arising from putrefying organic wastes. It does not hesitate to eat its fill from and wallow its body in the filthiest germ-laden mass, and then at first opportunity to plunge its reeking feet and "snout" into the most delicious cream cake on the pantry shelf. It will feed ravenously on excreted wastes of the typhoid patient, suck up with avidity the sputum from a tuberculous individual, wallow in the pus of an open sore, and then pass directly to any food upon the table, to the nipple of baby's bottle, to healthy mucus membranes or uncontaminated wounds. "There is nothing to tell whether the fly that comes blithely up to sup with you is merely unclean, or whether it has just finished feeding upon dejecta teeming with typhoid bacilli." That the fly is a distributor par excellence of all kinds of filth and disease germs, has long since passed the stage of experimental demonstration. It has been repeatedly examined not only for surface contamination, but also as to the number of germs that may be carried in the digestive tract. The number of surface forms on a single fly has been known to vary from about five hundred to more than six millions, and those of the digestive tract from one hundred to more than three millions. The number of germs carried varies with the season and the quantity of exposed filth of the district in which the flies are collected, in fact the quantity of filth carried by the flies as well as the number of flies in any locality seems to bear a definite relation to the habits of the people and to the conditions of their surroundings. In one experiment in which the fly was permitted to fall into a vessel of sterile water and swim about for several minutes — just as sometimes occurs in many households — the number of surface germs washed off was five hundred million, and those from the digestive tract over three hundred million. This perhaps represents extremes as to number of germs, but it is often repeated as to the bath, except that milk serves as the medium and an unsuspecting child as the incubator. As to specific germs of disease, the evidence is no less certain and convincing. Flies fed on material contaminated with the typhoid bacillus have been found to distribute this germ in their feces for two days after feeding. From flies naturally infected, this germ has also been repeatedly recovered, so we know that the typhoid bacillus is carried not only accidentally on the surface of the insect's body but within its alimentary canal. Similar results have been reached in experiments with other disease germs, notably that of tuberculosis, and there is abundant evidence that infantile diarrhea, dysentery and cholera may be so spread. Consider the possibilities of the fly coming in contact with these germs in nature. Typhoid bacilli are abundant in the excrement and urine of the person suffering from the disease, and are often in the dejecta for months or even years after the individual has recovered. Human excreta is very attractive to flies both for feeding and egg-laying. It is frequently carelessly exposed in waste places or open privies and left to contaminate myriads of insects not only with typhoid bacilli but with the germs of other intestinal diseases. The sputum of tubercular individuals is also greedily devoured by flies, and they have been shown to distribute the germ for several days after feeding on infected material. The fly, then, is most admirably adapted in bodily construction, breeding habits and life activities, to the nefarious practice of filth and disease distribution. But is the fly to blame? Is it not merely responding to environment in the only way in which nature permits it to respond, and incidentally turning back upon man the natural results of his own unclean habits?

"O My Father."

Adapted to the tune of "The Nephite Lamentation" as arranged by Professor Henry E. Giles.

HISTORY OF "THE NEPHITE LAMENTATION."

The melody of the "Nephite Lamentation" has a very interesting and impressive history. It was given to Thomas Durham of Parowan, Utah, in a dream. Because of its connection with Book of Mormon history it is of special interest to Latter-day Saints. The history of the melody and the story of the dream as given to the publisher by President Canute Peterson of Sanpete Stake are as follows: A promise had been made to Thomas Durham that he should be visited by heavenly beings. In fulfilment of the promise a young man, who proved to be one of the twenty-four Nephites surviving the last great battle between the Nephites and Lamanites at the Hill Cumorah, came to his room and played this melody on a brass horn. Apparently for the purpose of impressing the tune upon Brother Durham's memory, it was repeated three times. In its rendition it seems that the high note in the second strain of the melody was beyond the range of the instrument but by the expression on the face of the young Nephite it was apparent that he was trying to reach a higher note. Brother Durham, being a musician, readily placed the missing note to complete the melody. The rendition so impressed him that he was awakened and immediately arose and wrote the music of the tune to preserve it. The history of the melody, as given to Brother Durham, connects it with the battle of the Hill Cumorah, as related in the Book of Mormon, Mormon, sixth chapter, eleventh verse: "And when they had gone through and hewn down all my people, save it were twenty and four of us, (among whom was my son Moroni, and we having survived the dead of our people, did behold on the morrow, when the Lamanites had returned unto their camps, from the top of the hill Cumorah, the ten thousand of my people who were hewn down, being led in the front by me." Fifteenth verse: "And it came to pass that there were ten more who did fall by the sword, with their ten thousand each; yea, even all my people, save it were those twenty and four who were with me, and also a few who had escaped into the south countries, and a few who had dissented over unto the Lamanites, had fallen, and their flesh, and bones, and blood lay upon the face of the earth." (There were 230,000 slain.) When the twenty-four had gathered at the Hill Cumorah the morning after the battle, the young man who appeared to Brother Durham played this same melody as a lamentation for the dead. As he played, he was sitting on the bank of a stream, facing the west, probably overlooking the battle field of the previous day. The melody, having been preserved by Brother Durham after the dream, he later adapted it to the words of the favorite "Mormon" hymn, "O, my Father," and frequently sang it in public. When the melody was given to the writer who, on one occasion at Cedar City, heard it sung by Brother Durham, he arranged it in its present form and has frequently used it as an organ solo for sacramental music. It has created a deep impression whenever played, and is now very frequently requested. The melody is now published as choir music for the first time, and it is hoped and believed that it will be widely used throughout the Church:

O MY FATHER.

Tune—Nephite Lamentation.  
THOMAS DURHAM.  
Eliza R. Snow.  
Arr. by H. E. Giles.  

Solo. Andante moderato.  
For a my Father, Thou that dwellest  
In Thy high and glorious place!  
When shall I regain Thy presence,  
And again behold Thy face?  
In Thy holy habitation,  
Did my spirit once reside;  
In my first primeval childhood,  
Was I nurtured near Thy side.  

CHORUS. Very distinct.  
I had learned to call Thee: Father,  
Through Thy Spirit from on high;  
But until the Key of Knowledge  
Was restored, I knew not why.  
In the heav'ns are parents single  
No; the thought makes reason stare!  
Truth is reason, truth eternal  
Tells me I've a mother there.  
When I leave this frail existence,  
When I lay this mortal by,  
Father, Mother, may I meet you  
In your royal courts on high?  
Then, at length, when I've completed  
All you sent me forth to do,  
With your mutual approbation  
Let me come and dwell with you.  

"DON'T WORRY"

While there are no meetings  
is a good time to read  
"Love By and O. F. The Whitney Light"  
$1.25 at the  

SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION  
BOOKSTORE  
The Book Store of Salt Lake City  
44 E. South Temple Street  

S. S. Dickinson Co.  
676-680 East 2nd South Street  
"THE CLEAN STORE"  

Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes  
Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes  
FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS  

KEISTER Ladies' Tailoring College  
"THE SCHOOL THAT TURNS OUT DRESSMAKERS"  
Established 1904  
Skilled instructors. Most advanced methods. Strictly money-back to every student.  
Desirable Location 291 Center Street  
SALT LAKE CITY  

AN ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANER  
LET MEARDLEY BROS. DO IT  
Salt Lake City Utah  
37 East First South  

Your Photographs Should Come From  
AMUNDSEN'S  
249 MAIN STREET  
Better Work Because Better Equipment  

Established 1877  
Phone, Was. 1370  

STAR PRINTING CO.  
SUPERIOR PRINTING  
35 P. O. PLACE  
SALT LAKE CITY  

THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO.  
Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request.  
55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah  

"Say It With Flowers"  
Order from our ever fresh supply. Prompt delivery. Courtesy our motto. Funeral Designs our specialty.  
CHILD FLORAL CO.  
With DRUEL DRUG CO.  
2nd South, and Main. Busy Corner.  
Phone W. 700  

A NEW BOOK  
The Vitality of Mormonism  
By Dr. James E. Talmage  
This work, consisting of 360 pages, is published by the Gotham Press, Boston, Mass., and comprises the articles written by Dr. Talmage and published in many of the great and influential newspapers of the country. The book contains all the articles published up to the time of its issue.  
Bound in Cloth, $1.50 postpaid  

DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE  
News Building 6 Main St.  

THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK  
of SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.  
Sufficient quick and service.  
One feature is the Unit System, which greatly simplifies transactions.  
Officers  
Heber J. Grant, President  
Henry T. McEwan, Cashier  
George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier  

THREE REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD ATTEND  
The Big 1919 Summer Quarter at the:  
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE  

1. Courses meeting all requirements of the new Health Education Act will be given.  
2. Teachers and prospective teachers will find courses that meet all certificate requirements.  
3. A full quarter's work toward a degree may be secured.  

Spend your summer on the U. A. C. campus, the prettiest spot in one of the most beautiful valleys in the West. The Summer Quarter begins Monday, June 9, 1919. The second term begins Monday, July 21. Students may enter at the opening of either term. Many courses will run for six weeks only, and many will begin with the second term. The U. A. C. Summer Session will be the biggest quarter in the year. Complete catalog now being prepared. Write for it.  

Address: Director of Summer School, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah.  

A SUMMER AT THE U. A. C IS A VACATION  

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  

FROM GOSPEL DOCTRINE  
Sermon of President Joseph F. Smith.  

President Young once said to Eliza R. Snow: "Tell the sisters not to raffle. If the mothers raffle, the children will gamble. Raffling is gambling. Then it is added: 'Some say what shall we do, we have quilts on hand, we cannot sell them and we need means to supply our treasury which we can obtain by raffling for the benefit of the poor?" Rather let the quilts rot on the shelves than adopt the old adage, 'The end will sanctify the means.' As Latter-day Saints, we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principle to financial gain."  

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  
No. 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah  
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy 10c  