PRISONERS OF THE PIT. Mabel Gardner Pancake.
"Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free" (D. & C. 128:22).
Arise! Awake! fresh courage take, Ope wide the prison — See! The numerous prisoners in the pit; Redeem them, set them free.
Why hold them back, why shirk or slack? 'Tis work that must be done, That they may be through eternity, With the Father and the Son.
ON THE WATCH TOWER. James H. Anderson.
Congress met on May 19, and proceeded to transact business with unusual promptness.
Mexico's internal warfare increased in May, and now threatens the states of Chihuahua and Durango.
Woman suffrage is receiving general acceptance, through legislative action in Great Britain in May.
Austrian peace terms cover the division of that empire, and the limit of its standing army to 15,000 men.
An eruption of the volcano of Kaput, island of Java, the last week in May, caused a loss of 15,000 lives.
10,000 Dogs, of all varieties, were used with the entente allies' armies in France, said to be with excellent results.
Turkey is to be carved into very small states, instead of being upheld as a "buffer nation," as it has been for centuries.
17-inch "hobble skirts" for women is announced to be the coming fashion. Pity the poor woman with the 8½-inch feet.
An electrical workers' strike throughout the United States, to compel recognition of the labor union, has been called for July 1.
Ruth Law (Mrs. Oliver), who made a record aeroplane trip from New York to Chicago, now proposes to attempt a transatlantic flight.
Moslem women in Egypt and Turkey now go about in ON THE WATCH TOWER. 419 public without veils, the war having swept away the custom of centuries.
Sixteen distinct wars were being waged in Europe and Asia, during the month of May, chiefly growing out of the results of the great war just closed.
The Joseph F. Smith memorial building on the L. D. S. university grounds in Salt Lake City is being completed, and will be dedicated in September next.
Four hundred thousand American troops in Europe has been figured out as the number necessary to maintain there, under the preliminary workings of the league of nations.
Great Britain is to have Mesopotamia as well as Palestine, in the peace settlement, and thus secures an all-land route to British India from the former Turkish Mediterranean coast.
A great strike, centering at Winnipeg, almost paralyzed business in Western Canada in May. The demand of the strikers was for recognition of their labor union by the employers.
The American League is the name adopted by an organization of American soldiers in the great war. The cardinal principle of the league is to uphold American government ideals.
Railway operation by the U. S. government continues to be very expensive, Congress being asked for a total of nearly one and three-quarters of a billion dollars for the deficit up to the end of 1919.
Bolshevism in the United States is being belittled by many publicists, but it nevertheless is rife and demands the overthrow of the existing order of government, although not in the precise line of Russian Bolshevism.
League of Nations as a separate measure from the treaty of peace appears to be assured, as the action of the United States Senate, from declarations made on the assembling of Congress in extra session in May.
Palestine has been definitely assigned to control by Great Britain, and the building up of that land, with the freedom of the Jews who gather there, is reasonably assured, for the first time in more than twenty centuries.
420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
Constantinople is being figured on as becoming an international city, under the mandatory of the four great powers, Great Britain, France, Italy, and America. The latter does not wish to accept the responsibility alone.
Church union of various denominations, in some way not yet worked out, is demanded by eminent religious leaders throughout Christendom as the only way to cope with moral conditions which have arisen from the great war.
The "luxury tax" in the revenue law passed by the last Congress— the tax on soaps and various toilet articles, etc. — is causing so much dissatisfaction that Congress is expected to repeal that provision at the extra session.
David O. McKay as commissioner, and Stephen L. Richards and Richard R. Lyman as assistants, comprise the new commission of education organized in the "Mormon" Church, for its schools. All are members of the council of apostles.
German women in Germany have made a big organization among members of their sex, by which each one is pledged to do something in the line of social and domestic economy that will be of benefit in the community where they reside.
Sending of bombs through the mails, as was done in the United States in the latter part of April, is to be made punishable by death, according to a bill introduced in the United States Senate by Senator W. H. King of Utah.
Japan has been awarded by the peace commission in Paris a sphere of influence in northern China, which is the direction in which the Japanese empire seeks expansion. The Japanese also are taking in large areas of eastern and northern Siberia.
Greece is being made a comparatively important nation by the Paris peace conference, in extending that nation's territory so as to include Smyrna, formerly in Turkey. This movement may be a bone of contention in future developments.
Italy returned her delegates to the Paris peace conference in May, to meet the German and Austrian peace delegations, but the close of that month did not see a satisfactory conclusion to the dispute regarding the disposition of the port of Fiume.
The equal suffrage amendment to the American Constitution was passed by the national House of Representatives in May, ON THE WATCH TOWER. 421 passed also in the Senate, June 4, and its submission to the various State legislatures for ratification is now in order.
Germany objects strongly to the peace terms submitted, which require her to give up territory, pay heavy indemnities, and restrict her standing army to 100,000 men. Notwithstanding the objections, the probability is that the Germans will sign the treaty.
Baptists and Presbyterians, as well as Catholics, have refused to engage in a great combination of the churches under one head, yet the cleavage between Protestant and Catholic seems the likely permanent line of demarcation, from developments and discussions in those quarters during May.
Labor strikes occurred in several states of the Union, including Utah, in May, the chief demands being for higher wages and the recognition of the unions to the exclusion of other workers. The tendency becoming clearly manifest is to seek power and gain for the labor unions in the disputes that arise.
President Wilson asked Congress, in his message to that body, to repeal the wartime prohibition of the manufacture and sale of beer and light wines. The mass of the people in the United States seem so well satisfied with the results of the prohibition that they have not taken kindly to the President's recommendation.
Transatlantic air-flights were shown in May to be possible, by the flight of three American planes toward the Azores, the longest lap in that ocean passage. One of these, the NC4, was successful on May 16 and 17, under Lieut.-Commander Albert S. Read. The other two were disabled when near their destination, and the crews rescued. Later the NC4 made Lisbon, and America holds the honor of having passed the Atlantic by air flight.
Harry G. Hawker and McKenzie Grieve, an Australian aviator and British naval officer, who made the daring attempt on May 17 to go in an airplane from Newfoundland to Ireland, went 1100 miles on their way, when a pipe in the machine became clogged and they were compelled to descend in the sea. They were then 800 miles from the Irish coast. They were picked up ninety minutes later by the crew of the Danish ship Mary, but their rescue did not become known to the people on the mainland until six days later.
Construction and Reconstruction in the Home.
CONTINUATION OF MAKING OF TAILORED SKIRT.
Basting.
The type of seam used will make some difference in how we should proceed to baste the skirt. In all cases, however, two points must be carefully kept in mind (a) Baste from the top of the skirt down so that all unevenness will come out at the bottom of the skirt, (b) as you baste be careful not to stretch the material in either side of the seam. The latter results in an ugly drawn seam and no amount of pressing will remedy this fault.
The two most used types of seams at the present time are the plain tailored seam (in this the two edges of the seam are turned the same way on the wrong side and the stitching is done on the right side) and the ordinary seam with the edges separated and pressed apart on the wrong side (see figures a and b).
In basting for the plain seam proceed as already suggested on the wrong side, from the top of the skirt to the bottom, being very careful to take up as much material as you have allowed for seam. In the previous number one inch seams were suggested. This you will find makes it very much easier to keep from stretching either side of the seam as you are working far enough back from the raw edge, for the material to retain its firmness.
3. In the tailored seam, first baste back one inch of material on the edges of the front gore. When basted press with a damp cloth over so as to give a decided fold on the edge. Then place this folded edge one inch over the edge of the side gore and baste together from the right side. This can best be done flat on the table and lessens the danger of stretching the material. When you finish basting each seam hold it up against you and look down at it to see if the material is properly adjusted. Fitting the Skirt. Before fitting the skirt hem the ends of the belting and sew the hooks and eyes on it, so that it just comes together. With 423 CONSTRUCTION IN THE HOME. the present styles a two inch or inch and a half belting should be used. Pin the.skirt to the upper edge of the belting so that the hooks and eyes come even with the placket of the skirt. Then make what changes are necessary and, as in fitting a waist, do not try to make changes without unbasting the seam to be corrected. If the fullness falls too much to the front of the skirt it is generally the result of the front being hollowed out too much and to correct this raise the back up until the folds in the skirt fall in the proper place. On the other hand, the reverse of this effect will result from the front not being cut low enough to be in accordance with the back. The placket comes on the left side and is usually about eleven inches long. It is not necessary to trim the bottom at the first fitting, in fact it is much safer for a beginner in dressmaking to entirely finish the top of the skirt before trimming the bottom. About 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. five inches from the floor is the proper length at the present time for a tailored skirt. The Seam. When the fitting is completed sew up the seams with sewing silk. One of the most vital points in skirt making is the proper adjustment of the tensions of the sewing machine. If you do not know how to loosen or tighten the upper and lower tensions have an agent explain it to you at once. Both threads must pull evenly and for skirts seams must be loose or the seam will be drawn in spite of all the pressing one might do. See figure C and D. Next thoroughly press the seams with a damp cloth and hot iron. The method of finishing the wrong side of the seams can be determined only by the weight of the material. The best methods are as follows: (a) Clipping in points — this is very suitable for extra heavy materials that do not fray. (b) Binding— great care must be taken in this to avoid making the binding too bulky and cord like. (c) Turning the edge back and stitching. (d) Stitching on the edge by machine and then overcasting. In all these methods the seams must be carefully trimmed to an even width. The Placket. The placket is probably the most difficult of all parts of the skirt and there are several good ways of finishing the placket. The main point, however, is to make it neat and invisible. Figure E and F will give you some idea of one method I have used a great deal and found very practical. The Bottom of the Skirt. A hem is always preferable — usually in tailored skirts about three inches deep. If the material is heavy, bind the upper edge instead of making a second turn. Figure G will give you some idea of placing the little plaits in the hem where the bottom of the skirt is curved. In case you face a skirt — use the same material if possible and if a substitute is necessary have it as nearly as possible of the same quality. The facing should always be cut in the true bias of the material. This is preferable to a facing cut to fit the curve. CONSTRUCTION IN THE HOME. 425 The hem of facing should always be sewed by hand and made as nearly invisible as possible. I know of no material used for tailored skirts which does not look much better hemmed by hand. The Belt. The belts to tailored skirts are usually made separate when they go all the way around the waist. A small belt across the fullness in the back may be lined with a silk to match the material and then tacked in place, or if so desired, may be left separate and adjusted when the skirt is worn. Figure A. Tailored seam, stitched on the right side. Figure B. Plain seam — wrong side — edges pressed apart and bound. Figure C. Illustrates how both the upper and lower threads in machine stitching should pull evenly. The center line represents the cloth. Figure D. Illustrates an improperly adjusted tension where one thread is tight and one loose. Figure E is the right side of placket. Figure F is the wrong side of placket. Figure G shows how to adjust small plaits resulting from a curved hem. CAUTION. Grace Ingles Frost. She walks not in the dark, with firm-set feet she steps, Nor hinders she her progress by crude haste, As she plods onward toward the goal ambition points. Upon her lips is placed the seal of silence, Which locked remains, save unto voice of wisdom. Her deep set orbs, alert with visual power, See life as it exists in verity. Nor read into its meaning esoterics. Her ears attuned to every key existent, Select the strain which guides to fuller knowledge, And ends upon the perfect note of peace. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth: THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells...... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor........ SusA Young Gates Business Manager...... Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VI. JULY, 1919. No. 7. TEACHERS' TRAINING COURSE. The Church authorities delegated to a large committee, chosen from the auxiliary boards, the task of improving the methods of our various class leaders and teachers in Relief Societies, Sunday Schools, the Mutuals, Primaries and Religion Classes. To this end a book was printed, and classes have been arranged where all these religion teachers may meet for study and discussion of teaching methods. It is expected that they who are already familiar with such methods in public schools will acquire a needed religious application of their pedagogical ideas; while those who have never had that inestimable privilege, will acquire, to a greater or less degree, ideas and modes of imparting information which are, and forever will be, a dominant part of every Latter-day Saint's life here and hereafter. Fathers, mothers of children, grandparents, guardians, men in active priesthood quorums, women in auxiliary official positions, of any sort, in short, the whole membership of the Church need to teach, for we are sent to teach rather than to be taught of the world, and if we need to teach, we ought to know all we can know about how to teach. All of us, the least educated or the best, the toiler or the teacher, the mother or the school student, we all have stores of information crowded together in our minds. It may be information of a limited nature on a few subjects; but Latter-day Saints are Saints because they think on religious topics, and match EDITORIAL. 427 thought with action. That information, whether it pertains only to daily, temporal duties, or broadens out to include vast stores of mental and spiritual truths will lie huddled together in our minds, like great masses of unsorted merchandise in a storehouse, unless we discover how to classify it, sort it, and to use it in logical sequence suited to the time and the occasion. The teachers' training course aims to give clues by which system and order may supercede the chaotic condition of many otherwise well stored minds. Parents have to teach, they do teach, daily, hourly, whether they will or not. And too often, because of the lack of the fundamentals of inspired pedagogy, they teach lessons exactly the opposite of what they aim to, while class teachers in our women's organization, many of them school teachers with more or less pedagogical proficiency, use what they have learned from uninspired sources to the actual detriment of those to whom they address themselves in our auxiliary organizations. Another class, the great majority of them being good former missionaries, or men and women of much natural ability but without training, stumble along, now hitting the mark and occasionally missing it. To all of these, this teacher's training course comes like a staff on an upward climb. The point of the whole matter is that the course is founded on the teachings of the Christ, its corner stone is his gospel, and the whole superstructure, faulty as human vision is fallible, yet bears the impress of divine ideals. The Prophet Joseph, we are told, instructed his friends to acquire all possible information, adding that he himself, if confined to one study would choose "natural philosophy," as it was then called: while President Young organized the Church school system, giving Dr. Maeser, as his only advice, "Don't try even to teach the multiplication table without the Spirit of the Lord." We shall never learn too much, nor know facts and truths enough. We may well fear to achieve knowledge, to receive what we term education, under the tutelage of skeptics and unbelievers in divine revelation. But when, as in the present instance, our instruction comes through the channels of the priesthood, and the knowledge of truths taught are informed and inspired by Latter-day Saint teachers and instructors, we shall do well to become willing pupils, eager students. We welcome, therefore, this effort to give better methods, more definite results, to the teaching necessities of the Relief Society class leaders and all officers and members of our great organization. Sisters, let us support this movement with all our power. Summer Lesson in Hygiene. HOW TO KEEP WELL. Dr. Samuel H. Allen. We have appreciated that man is a dual being ? one part of the human Ego is spiritual, and the other part purely material. The material part of us is in every sense of the word a machine, following all the mechanical laws of machines. It is true that many of the processes of this wonderful machine are beyond our power of comprehension, but many of them we have learned to comprehend, and the science which deals with the processes of the human body we call physiology. For a machine to work well, there are certain rules that have to be observed in managing it. The man who would keep his automobile in first class condition must know the kind and quality of gasoline to use. the points where lubrication is necessary, and the amount of water to keep his radiator from boiling. He must appreciate also that bolts and bearings must be kept in proper adjustment, and everything up to a certain degree of perfection. He must know also, that if he would have his machine do its best work and work continuously over a long period of time, he must go gently over the rough places and not subject it to undue strain. Exactly the same reasoning applies to the human body. This human machine is a much more intricate apparatus than any mechanism which the intelligence of man has contrived. If we would have it work to its highest degree of efficient and continuous service over a long period of time, we must apply the rules which govern its activity as a machine. Abundance of fresh air is necessary to supply the tissues with oxygen to carry off the carbonic acid and other waste products. When I was a medical student a quarter of a century ago, we used to speak of tuberculosis as one of the incurable diseases. In the vain hope to do something, we gave tubercular patients cod liver oil and creosote, and other nauseating substances, which we imagined had curative power in them. Today we regard tuberculosis as a very curable disease in the great majority of cases. We have learned that God made the medicine which cures these people if they will only put themselves in a position to appropriate it. We say often to an early tubercular patient, "Get away from the habitations of man into the great ocean of atmosphere, get your air unimpeded by walls, and uncontaminated by other SUMMER LESSONS IN HYGIENE. 429 human beings, and rest in bed when you have fever, take abundance of nourishment; and the whole structure of our tuberculosis problem has been changed. The same thing is true of other infections. Patients who are lingering and not doing well will often improve rapidly when they are placed out in the open air. The over anxious mother was wont to close the windows on cold winter nights for fear her children might get croup or bronchitis or pneumonia from the damp night air. She did not appreciate that she was doing the very thing with vitiated air that predisposed them to the diseases by lowering their vitality. If she would cover the child up warm in bed, and throw the windows wide open, she would be much more likely to prevent the child from taking cold than by the reverse process. We have all seen people who remain perfectly well out on camping expeditions, living in the open air, who contracted a cold immediately when they came home and subjected themselves to the contaminated air of sleeping apartments. The modern sleeping porch is one of the best adjuncts to our home that has been developed in recent years. When we learn to use it continuously, we will find a great many of the respiratory troubles will disappear. A great law of life which the medical profession has slowly learned to appreciate is that the body cells have power to resist disease and to cure themselves of disease if they are kept up to a high degree of vitality. Daily we are all subjected to possible infections of all kinds, and do not contract them because our vitality is up to the resisting point. When, by overwork, or long continued exposure to cold or through breathing vitiated air, we lower our vitality, then the infection has a chance to take hold of us. The quantity and quality of food is also a thing that is of vital importance. A great many people eat too much, and some people eat too little. Physiological chemistry has shown that we need a proper proportion between the proteid and the fats and the sugars in our food. A great many people have eaten altogether too much meat. The scientific world is demonstrating that many chronic conditions result from the excessive use of meat. In the consideration of appendicitis, it has long been known that an excessive amount of meat in the diet is one of the common contributing factors. Lithemia, rheumatism, gout, and high blood pressure are all conditions resulting from excessive meat diet. We are all in the habit of swallowing our food whole, without proper mastication, and as a consequence, consume much more food than is good for us. If the man who runs an engine kept his stoker ever filling the fire box with coal, we can imagine that his engine would 430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. soon fail to do good work, and the same thing is true of the human machine. Food if not assimilated, ferments and produces trouble. "Leave the mark of every one of your 32 teeth on each mouthful of food before you swallow it" is a very good rule. You will have satisfied your appetite without excessive ingestion of food, and the food itself is in a condition for active chemical change when it comes in contact with the digestive fluids. You see the ox when he goes out in the morning and devours a great quantity of grass, he seeks some shady place and lays himself down and brings the food back into his mouth and masticates and masticates until it is thoroughly reduced to a condition of easy digestion. The human being who has not half as much sanitary sense as the ox, has to get the pepsin from his stomach to purchase absolution from the digestive sins he has been guilty of committing. Abundance of water is necessary, but it should be taken between meals rather than at the meal time. Imagine how quickly the sewerage system of the city would become clogged if it did not have abundance of water to flush its conduits. The same thing is true of the human body. The best activity of the brain, the strongest, most efficient activity of the muscles, or the freshest functioning of the moral faculties results from keeping our bodies healthy. It is a study worthy of all people alike to keep this machine running to its highest degree of efficiency, and over the longest period of years that it can be made to function over. HOW TO KEEP BABY WELL. Dr. Raphael S. Olsen. The following suggestions on how to keep the baby well are particularly adaptable to the hot summer months, since it is at this period that so many babies are lost. Mothers have originated the saying that the second summer is the most difficult one for the child ? that if he gets through this period no great difficulty will be experienced later. This idea has grown out of the fact that the child's second year of life is one of the important transition periods. During the first year his body needs are met by the mother's milk, which, so far as he is concerned, is a perfect food. Towards the end of this year, foods from outside sources are introduced to maintain the growth. It is this transition from the mother's milk to a variety of foods which makes the child's second summer a difficult one. Added to this are the troubles attendant on the cutting of incisor and molar teeth. Introduce the proper foods, however, and establish proper habits, and no fears need be entertained as to the outcome. SUMMER LESSONS IN HYGIENE. 431 Do not attempt to wean the baby during the summer months, and what is still more important, do not attempt to nurse him through the second summer. In some cases, it becomes necessary to nurse longer than one year but even with these exceptional cases the breast must not be the only food relied on. Mother's milk is deficient in iron. Up to one year of age there is sufficient of this mineral stored in the child's tissues to meet the needs of the body growth, but after this time iron must be supplied in the food or anemia will develop. The percentage of children having anemia is alarmingly high. In many of these the beginning of the trouble has been in faulty diet during the first two years. It is at this period that we are laying the foundations for physical manhood and womanhood. Our ultimate results will depend entirely on the material we put into that foundation. It is not too much to say that the child's future success in life is dependent on the care his stomach gets during infancy. Poor food means a lowered vitality and a lowered vitality means susceptibility to infectious dysenteries and other troubles of more or less serious nature. It is not enough to satisfy the child's appetite. This is too often done by permitting foods that not only do not meet the body needs but actually lower resistance to disease. Foods that meet the child's needs must contain all the various food ingredients, not forgetting the "growth determinants," on which so much stress is being laid. The suggestions here made will help mothers only in so far as they are faithfully carried out. Detailed instructions are impossible owing to limited space. Foods for the second year: Milk ? one quart daily. Cereals without sugar. Bread ? particularly whole wheat or graham. Fruits ? Baked or stewed apples, prunes, fresh, bottled or canned fruits, oranges, bananas if real ripe or roasted. No berries, cherries, melons, overripe or green fruits. Vegetables ? baked or boiled potatoes, juices from stewed vegetables, particularly spinach, peas, string beans, or puree (thickened gravies) of stewed vegetables. Eggs ? not more than one daily, unless ordered so by your physician. Meats and meat soups should be used very sparingly or not at all. The child does not need them at this early period unless some malnutrition present requires their use. Foods to avoid: Tea, coffee, pastries, candies, fried foods, highly seasoned foods. 432 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Remember that dysentery is the most frequent cause of death during summer. Usually the fatal cases are the bottle fed babies. Rarely does the breast fed baby die from this cause. This is very likely due to the contamination of milk. "Raw milk is responsible for more sickness and deaths than perhaps all other foods combined." Mothers do not realize the need for keeping it ice cold until fed. Many do not take ice. The bottle of milk stands on the pantry shelf or is even allowed to stand on the porch in the sun for an hour or so after delivery. Milk so exposed will develop millions of bacteria within a very short time and these, with the poisons which they produce, bring on the bowel trouble that so often results fatally. Absolute cleanliness in milking the cows, cleaning pails, cans, bottles and nipples, must be observed if we would protect from dysentery. Filthy nipples and "pacifiers" are responsible for much of the trouble. Flies come from the outhouses where they have crawled over human and animal excreta, alight on the "pacifier," and thus transfer directly to the child's mouth the organisms of disease. From our carelessness the only wonder is that more babies do not die than do. Some don'ts: Don't feed milk that has been once warmed. If the baby does not take all that is offered, throw the rest away. Don't think that pasteurizing milk makes it safe ? organisms will grow as rapidly in pasteurized as in raw milk. Don't think it economy to be without ice in summer. You will pay more out for doctor bills than the ice will cost, as a result of contaminated milk. Don't let your baby "piece." Feed only at regular periods. If he won't eat, make him wait until the next period. Don't let your baby stay awake until late hours. "Early to bed and early to rise." Don't take your babies to the "movies." The foul air and exposure to disease may prove serious. Don't fear fresh air. Keep babies on the sleeping porch winter and summer. It will increase their resistance and promote health. Don't permit baby to be kissed in the mouth. Think of the foul breath, decayed teeth, pyorrhoea, catarrh, tonsillitis, and myriads of other diseased conditions that may be present in the adult mouth. Don't toss in the air or play roughly with the child, his nervous system may be seriously injured. Don't give baby soothing syrups, cough mixtures, worm medicines, teething powders, paregoric, except on the doctor's orders. SUMMER LESSONS IN HYGIENE. 433 Don't wait to call a doctor until the child is dying and then expect him to perform a miracle. Remember that every serious condition of childhood has a simple beginning. Don't think that constipation can be corrected by "Castoria," "Syrup of Figs," etc. These only give temporary relief. Only through foods can we correct constipation. Don't overdress the child. There is just as much danger from this as from not enough clothing. DIET NEEDS. Few people realize how much the human system depends on iron in the blood. There is less than one-tenth of an ounce of iron in the entire body of the average person, yet a slight reduction in this amount will cause serious trouble and a considerable reduction will result in death. Most of the iron in the body is in the blood and since there is no reserve store of iron as there is of calcium, in the human system, the amount of iron required for normal metabolism must be supplied each day in the food eaten or else the system will suffer and finally develop serious disease. Experiments have been made with giving inorganic iron to people and the results of these scientific experiments are not very satisfactory. A number of rats were fed on a diet poor in iron, while others were given the same diet to which had been added iron in solution. The rats were found, when killed, to be in about equal condition; other animals, such as rabbits, mice and dogs, were improved in health through the introduction of iron sulphate. The modern disease of anemia which used to be known as "thin" or "poor blood" troubles, and chlorosis, which is a hardening of the arteries, have been helped by using inorganic preparations. The mice which were fed iron oxide were found to contain twice the number of red blood cells that the other animals had which were not so treated. Certainly the best and safest mode of securing iron in the system is through using a proper diet. Certain foods contain iron and the best way to be sure that we have sufficient iron is to use some of the following foods containing at least 15 milligrams of iron per day. This amount can be obtained from vegetables and fruit, meats and nuts, while if the diet is composed largely of white bread, potatoes, milk and pastry, general deterioration ensues. 434 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Iron Food. Per Cent Almonds 0039 Asparagus 0010 Barley, entire 0044 Barley, pearled 0020 Beans, dried 0070 Meat 0030 Bread, Graham 0025 Bread, white 0009 Buttermilk 0002 Eggs 0030 Figs, dried 0030 Hazel nuts 0041 Oatmeal 0038 Peanuts 0020 Peas, dried 0057 Peas, fresh 0017 Pecans 0026 Potatoes 0013 Prunes 0030 Raisins 0021 Rice, unpolished 0020 Rice, polished 0009 Spinach 0036 Walnuts 0021 MISCELLANEOUS LESSON During peach season, collect the peach stones ? dry and crack them, using the nut for candy and flavoring of cakes, etc., instead of almonds. When watering the house plants in the windows, use a small funnel, hold close to the roots, then pour water into it. This prevents the water from splashing on the window sill, wall paper or floor. Paraffin oil, which can be purchased at any drug store for about twenty-five cents per quart, is excellent for water-proofing kitchen floors. It is applied cold, with a soft rag, dries instantly, and so is easily removed. It has been used very successfully on old kitchen floors, which had originally been painted, and from which most of the paint had been removed by wear. The oil works better on new floors. A quart of oil is sufficient for a medium sized kitchen. A most convenient and helpful hint to those preparing a large amount of potatoes for church suppers or parties, is to mash them in a bread mixer. They are as light and creamy as if whipped by hand, and only require a few minutes work. Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS The Department for renting Temple Clothes at the Bishop's Building has been closed. Hereafter people desiring suits for rent may secure them at the Salt Lake Temple. EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY & AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES EARDLEY BROS. 1st SOUTH & 3rd EAST Phone Hy. 670 Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDS 249 East Main Street Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. Handsome bound in cloth, $1.50 postpaid. Get the "Guide" to go with it. Price 15c. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 631 MAIN STREET The Utah State National Bank features quick and efficient service. One feature is the Unit System, which greatly simplifies transactions. Officers Heber J. Grant, President Henry T. McEwan, Cashier George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier THREE REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD ATTEND The Big 1919 Summer Quarter at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 1. Courses meeting all requirements of the new Health Education Act will be given. 2. Teachers and prospective teachers will find courses that meet all certificate requirements. 3. A full quarter's work toward a degree may be secured. Spend your summer on the U. A. C. campus, the prettiest spot in one of the most beautiful valleys in the West. The Summer Quarter begins Monday, June 9, 1919. The second term begins Monday, July 21. Students may enter at the opening of either term. Many courses will run for six weeks only, and many will begin with the second term. The U. A. C. Summer Session will be the biggest quarter in the year. Complete catalog now being prepared. Write for it. Address: Director of Summer School, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. A SUMMER AT THE U. A. C.