
"ARCH MIA AS SEARCH GA Z INTE " he" eee, A'. %: ies 4 a hace Promise Dorothy J. Roberts The apple is but a pearly promise now Inscribed in petals over twig and bough— A word, revived by springtime's alchemy, It scents the soft wind filtered through the tree. Each blossom drawn above the wakening earth Foretells the wonder of an apple's birth. Spring fashions change and change again, save these Worn each new season by the orchard trees— This white replacing now the scentless snow; This nest growing loud where the leaf-buds blow. A promise is unfolding over leaf and wing As syllables of summer climb the stems of spring. The Cover: Brandywine Park, Wilmington, Delaware Photograph by Fred H. Ragsdale, Free Lance Photographers Guild Frontispiece: Apple Blossoms, Photograph by Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press From lear and Sar We are delighted with the cover picture for the February Magazine, the inside pictures, the article by Brother Nibley, and the recipes which were used. We are grateful for the privilege of having our mission featured, and we hope others will enjoy this issue as we are enjoying it. The Relief Society Magazine means so much to us here in the mission. Our sisters have an added feeling of sisterhood with each contact we have. —Lovell W. Smith President Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society Roanoke, Virginia I wish to express my gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine which was sent to me six years ago by Mrs. Leslie Burt, my daughter's mother-in-law, as a Christmas gift. I really think it is a wonderful Magazine, and I enjoy reading it very much. I like all the articles that are in it. I wish to congratulate all for the time and effort it must take to prepare such a good, instructive, and spiritual Magazine. I admire the cover for the November issue, "Plaque in the Relief Society Building," with the picture of three nice looking ladies. —Emona Jones Tamburini Buenos Aires, Argentina It's peculiar, but the Magazine has always been ours in my mind. I can hardly wait for the moment to come when I can sit down and read it from cover to cover, enjoy the thoughts of other women who have the same way of life as mine. I especially enjoyed the story "Not of This Fold," by Frances C. Yost in the March issue. Since I saw her first story in the Magazine, I always scan the pages quickly to see whether or not she has a story in the current issue. She tells of such human situations, it seems as if you might be reading about yourself or someone in your town. —Jere Scott Thatcher, Arizona So many lovely comments on our Magazine I have received from poet friends to Page 282 whom I sent the January issue! Poets from New York City, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Los Angeles, and from the states of Minnesota, Mississippi, Iowa, etc. — one a poet laureate — have given high praise for the quality of the poems and stories, and for the scope of living and education covered by our lessons. One commented very favorably on the lesson. On Jonathan Edwards and said she didn't expect to find such material in a church publication. JI am happy to report these reactions, for I am proud of our Magazine and thankful to be represented in it. —Mabel Law Atkinson Salt Lake City, Utah Reading The Relief Society Magazine is like finding an oasis in a desert after reading many other magazines. I think that all the prize stories and poems were especially fine this year. Mrs. Hill's ""The Telling" is unique in technique. Its apparent simplicity — which is not simple at all — combined with its spiritual essence, makes it outstandingly beautiful. I don't know what I would do without the Magazine. I have written for it ever since "Aunt Susie Young Gates" was called to be the editor. May it continue on in its great mission. —-Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah I am grateful for the lesson on discipline "The Restraining Hand," by Elder John Farr Larson, in the November 1958 issue of the Magazine. It helped my husband and me better to understand the problems of our child and gave us new courage towards our goal of making ¢ a real home for our little family. —Bessie L. Abbott Kearns, Utah I have taken The Relief Society Magazine almost ever since 1921. I have surely enjoyed reading it and hope I can continue taking it until my days are finished on earth. I do enjoy the stories and the lessons. —Bertha G. Brown Grants Pass, Oregon 
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp President First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - a. | See Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Winniefred S. Manwaring Editor Edith P. Backman Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Irene B. Woodford Marianne C. Sharp Associate Eom 7 - - - - - - -:. Vesta P. Crawtford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 46 MAY 1959 No. 5

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES

Abraham Lincoln—A Study in Adversity by A. Hamer Reiser 284
The Eastern States Mission by Preston R. Nibley 290
Contest Announcements—1959 292
Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 292
Relief Society Short Story Contest 293
Would You Write Poetry? by Sylvia Probst Young 294
What's in a Story? by Norma A. Wrathall 299
The Right Circles 310

FICTION

Louise by Helen M. Livingston 303
Gem of the Hills by Lydia M. Sorensen 314
The Silver Leash—Chapter 9 by Beatrice R. Parsons 320

GENERAL FEATURES

From Near and Far 282
Sixty Years Ago 306
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 307
Editorial: Books—Recorders for the Ages by Vesta P. Crawford 308
Magazine Honor Roll for 1958 by Marianne C. Sharp 325
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by Hulda Parker 335
Birthday Congratulations 343

FEATURES FOR THE HOME

Recipes From the Eastern States Mission by Florence S. Jacobsen 311
Weed by Celia Luce 316
You Can Sew—XV—Children's Clothing by Jean R. Jennings 317
Maggie Richards Wood Specializes in Making Lace Tablecloths 319

POETRY

Promise—Frontispiece by Dorothy J. Roberts 281
To My Daughter by Camilla Woodbury Judd 298
Dream Come True by Ida Elaine James 309
My Mother by Elsie McKinnon Strachan 309
Grandmother's Pinks by Maude Rubin 316
Old Fishermen by Ethel Jacobson 319
When Deserts Bloom in Arizona by Ruth H. Chadwick 334
The Temple by Winona F. Thomas 338
Spring's Golden Web by Grace Ingles Frost 340
Sun in Bloom by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 340
Temple Marriage by Ann Barber Fletcher 343

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Page 283 Abraham Lincoln A STUDY IN ADVERSITY A. Hamer Reiser Assistant Secretary to the First Presidency made me, I have not made them." This is attributed to Abraham Lincoln as an explanation of himself. As a creature of adverse circumstances, Abraham Lincoln and his life offer a rewarding study. It is instructive to make a tally of the successes and failures of his life, to total them, and then to strike a balance and ponder the outcome. Another way to see him is as one wrestling with the dramatic forces of conflict inherent in his times and circumstances, to observe the preponderance of hindrances and the tardy achievement of success. If he had been notable for moral cowardice, self-pity, or neurosis, he would have succumbed early, drowned in the deluge of adversity which constantly washed over him. He stood, however, like a seabattered rock, lashed by storms of hurricane force, and survived the elements of defeat. He reduced himself to his lowest terms and has survived to the greatness of one who would "lose his life"' and save it. He wrote: "I was born February 12, 1809, in Hardin County, Kentucky. My parents were both born in Virginia, of undistinguished families — second families, perhaps I should say. My mother, who died in my tenth year, was of a family of the name of Hanks, some of whom now reside in Adams and others in Macon County, Illinois. My paPage 284 66 eet) ae have ternal grandfather, Abraham Lincoln, emigrated from Rockingham County, Virginia, to Kentucky about 1781 or 1782, where a year or two later he was killed by the Indians, not in battle, but by stealth, when he was laboring to open a farm in the forest. His ancestors, who were Quakers, went to Virginia from Berks County, Pennsylvania. An effort to identify them with the New England family of the same name ended in nothing more definite than a similanty of Christian names in both families, such as Enoch, Levi, Mordecai, Solomon, Abraham, and the like. "My father, at the death of his father, was but six years of age, and he grew up literally without education. He removed from Kentucky to what is now Spencer County, Indiana, in my eighth year. We reached our new home about the same time the State came into the Union. It was a wild region, with many bears and other wild animals still in the woods. 'here I grew up. There were some schools, so called, but no qualification was ever required of a teacher beyond readin', writin', and cipherin', to the rule of three. If a straggler supposed to understand Latin happened to sojourn in the neighborhood, he was looked upon as a wizard. 'There was absolutely nothing to excite ambttion for education. Of course, when I came of age I did not know much. Still, somehow, I could read, write, and cipher to the rule of three, but ABRAHAM LINCOLN that was all. I have not been to school since. 'The little advance I now have upon this store of education, I have picked up from time to time under the pressure of necessity. "T was raised to farm work, which I continued till I was twenty-two. At twenty-one I came to Illinois, Macon County. 'Then I got to New Salem, at that time in Sangamon, now in Menard County, where I remained a year as a sort of clerk ina store. 'hen came the Black Hawk war, and I was elected a captain of volunteers, a success which gave me more pleasure than any I have had since. I went the campaign, was clated, ran for the legislature the same year (1832) and was beaten— the only time I ever have been beaten by the people. The next and three succeeding biennial elections I was elected to the legislature. I was not a candidate afterward. During the legislative period I had studied law, and removed to Springfield to practise it. In 1864 I was once elected to the lower House of Congress. Was not a candidate for reelection. From 1849 to 1854, both inclusive, practised law more assiduously than ever before. Always a Whig in politics; and generally on the Whig electoral tickets, making active canvasses. I was losing interest in pollitics when the repeal of the Missouri compromise aroused me again. What I have done since then is pretty well known. "If any personal description of me is thought desirable, it may be said I am, in height, six feet four inches, nearly; lean in flesh, weighing on an average one hundred and eighty pounds; dark complexion, with coarse black hair and gray eyes. 285 No other marks or brands recollected." THE foregoing was written by Abraham Lincoln himself in 1859 to a friend, Jesse W. Fell, of Bloomington, Illinois, who wanted the information to promote his champion among his friends in the Fast. They had become curious about the homespun debater who had aroused the people during the epoch-making Lincoln-Douglas debates. Fell had told his friends: "We have two giants in Illinois; Douglas is the little Giant, and Abe Lincoln is the big one." The debates with Stephen A. Douglas mark a convenient meridian before and after which Lincoln's life can be divided. Before the debates, observe how the tally of adversity versus good fortune appears. His ancestry and parentage he described as "undistinguished." At eight he was taken by his fortune-hunting, land-hungry, farmer father, into the Indiana wilderness, where he grew up, with a minimum benefit of school and without the normal amenities of children. At ten he was orphaned of a mother, and for a time was mothered by an older sister, Sarah. In his book Abraham Lincoln, James Daugherty describes the lonely cabin where the sweet spirit of Nancy's love seemed to linger in the midst of a sorrow that was slow to heal. Yet, the children, without the tender munistrations of their mother went unkempt and undirected, except for the efforts of Sarah Lincoln, only fourteen years old. Tom Lincoln, sometime after Nancy's death, left the children in the Indiana woods and returned to 286 Kentucky where he found a friend of his youth, Sarah Bush (Johnston) then a widow. She became the children's stepmother. Abraham Lincoln throughout his life, in simple, thoughtful ways and visits expressed his gratitude to this compassionate woman for the care she gave the forlorn children. By 1830 the growing family was beginning to scatter. Sarah married and died in childbirth. Other Lincolns and Hanks had found fairer fields in IJlinois and 'Tom, ever the wanderer, sought greener fields. At twenty-one, Abraham was emancipated and on his own. He hired out to run a flatboat down the Mississippi to New Orleans for Denton Offut and later returned to be Offut's storekeeper at New Salem. It was on the flatboat voyages that Abe suffered the shock of observing the slave market where men, women, and children were bought and sold. During the New Salem days, Abraham Lincoln's popularity grew. His friendly good humor and his seemingly natural gift as a storyteller and spinner of tall tales won him a reputation which advertised him and brought him easy and attentive audiences wherever he went. 'This should be counted on the "asset" or "advantage" side of the tally sheet in this battle of adversity versus advantage. Good storytellers have a natural affinity for politics; or politics has magnetic power to attract tellers of tall tales. Abraham Lincoln's natural affection for people and his sincere interest in the well-being of his fellow men made him a natural champion of the rights and benefits of man in the arenas of law and politics. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 "THE story of his subduing the bully, Jack Armstrong, affords another glimpse of the force which won him respect among the hardy frontiersmen of the western wilderness. Self-taught Abraham, now an adult, acknowledged guidance and encouragement in learning from — Mentor Graham, the frontier schoolmaster; John Allen, the country doctor; Old John Berry, the revivalist preacher; Judge Bowling Green, and of Jack Kelso, Robert Burns, and William Shakespeare in about equal proportions. From such as these, Abe gleaned the rudiments of a love of learning. Abe was defeated in the first election at which he sought an office in 1832. Offut's store failed and Abe tried storekeeping in partnership with young Berry, the minister's son. They borrowed money to buy out Bill Greene, but the business was scant and the mounting debts inexorable. Adversity drove his partner to drink and early death, and left Lincoln in debt and out of business. For fifteen years he struggled to pay off the debts of his lone venture in business. He was appointed postmaster of New Salem and later deputy county surveyor. In 1834 he was elected to the State Assembly of Illinois. Here he had his first contact with the boisterous buffetings of frontier politics and democracy on the loose. The following year, legend says, Abraham Lincoln and _fair-haired Ann Rutledge, daughter of James, the mill owner, the tavern keeper, became engaged, but sudden, fatal illness took her away and thrust Abraham into the gloomy depths of despair. ABRAHAM LINCOLN It was in this era of his career that he began the practice of law as junior partner to Judge Stewart and in 1841 to Judge Stephen T'. Logan. The next year, November 4, he married the ambitious, much soughtafter Mary Todd, who had vowed that she would choose for her husband "the one that has the best chance of being President." In 1860, eighteen years later, her estimate was fulfilled, when he was nominated to run for the office of President of the United States. Amidst the rejoicing of his friends, he said: "There is a little woman at our house who is more interested in this dispatch than I am." In November, after the election returns were in, he announced to her, "Mary, we're elected." Joy to her; gloom and sorrow for him. He could discern the darkness of civil strife by that time, and the gathering storm clouds on_ the horizon. For one term — 1847-1849 — Lincoln was a Representative from [linois in the House of Representatives. Mary and the family had a brief taste of what life was in the Nation's capital. Here he was thrown into the midst of the political conflicts seething around the issues of slavery. His outspoken opinions on the subject brought his defeat and froze his immediate political future in [linois. He returned to the practice of law in Illinois. For nine years following 1849 he devoted himself to his profession and built his fame as a lawyer, riding circuit. The Missouri Compromise of 1850 he thought would "lay the ghost" of the slavery issue until by moderate, gradual means of educa- 287 tion and freeing the slaves by Government purchase the issue could be permanently buried. THIS idea of "gradual emancipation" of slaves by Government purchase had evidently become a deep-seated conviction with him. Repeatedly he tried to win his supporters to the idea. In February 186s, he made one last great attempt to use the principle to avert the further disaster he could see for the country. ~ To his cabinet he proposed that "Congress be asked to appropriate $400,000,000 to compensate the owners of slaves in such of the Southern states as should have ceased resistance by April 1," but the proposal was unanimously disapproved by the Cabinet. He was defeated again. Among his papers was found a note dated February 5, 1865: "Today these papers which explain themselves, were drawn up and submitted to the Cabinet and unanimously disapproved by them. A. Lincoln." Twenty-one years earlier, May 1844, in Illinois, less than two years after Abe had married Mary, and while he was practicing law in Springfield, another young man in Illinois, just four years Abe's senior, was nominated by his friends for the Presidency of the United States. He had announced as one of the principles of his political faith "to rid so free a country of every vestige of slavery and give liberty to the captive by paying the Southern gentlemen a reasonable equivalent for their property, that the whole nation might be free." In his address to the American people on that occasion, among other things, he said, "Pray Congress to pay every man a reasonable price for his slaves 288 out of the surplus revenue arising from the sale of public lands, and from the deduction of pay from the members of Congress" ("History of Joseph Smith," D. H. C. VI, pp. 197-209). The great debates with Stephen A. Douglas brought Lincoln before his countrymen where he expressed in simple, clear, and forceful language the convictions of millions that the extension of slavery would cause the collapse of Government of, by, and for the people. It was the essence of the betrayal of that principle of government, he thought. The Supreme Court decision of 1857 in the Dred Scott case, and the repeal of the Missouri Compromise by the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act projected him again into the political strife, which achieved its clearest expression in the debates with Douglas. Hf these debates are to be appraised as furtherances or hindrances to his career, it is well to consider that the outcome of the presidential election, though nominally a victory for him, showed that he had _ received 1,866,452 of the popular vote: Douglas, 1,375,157; Breckenridge, 847,953; and Bell, 590,631. 'Though he received a plurality, he was nearly a million votes short of a majority. He profited this time by the split in the Democratic party. His political career to this point had been notable for defeats and now at its peak, he barely squeezed through. Ahead rose the specter of bloody civil war with embarrassment, rebellion, calamity, and military reverses. 'These are the connotations of Fort Sumter, of the Battle of Bull Run of July 1861; the vacillations of General McClellan; the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 usurpation and premature actions of General Fremont in the West; the Trent incident, and the resulting embarrassment of making amends by the return of the Confederate envoys Mason and Slidell on the demand of Great Britain. E had painfully and impotently awaited inauguration in 1861, | while the Union was disintegrating under the bungling and inaction of President Buchanan, who turned over to him a Government and country in the shambles of rebellion. For four bitter, dark years the menace of the disruption of the Union haunted him and the American people. He was to taste the bitterness of defeat in the outcomes of the battle of Manassas, near Bull Run; of the campaigns of Stonewall Jackson in the Shenandoah Valley; Lee in the defense of Richmond; the empty victory of Antietam; the slaughter at Fredericksburg; the shock of Lee's victory at Chancellorsville; the desperate and costly triumph at Gettysburg, and the escape of Lee, to fight again. When the tide began to turn with the success of the Union Armies under Grant at Vicksburg, and later with the congregation of victorious Union generals at Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge, the stage was setting for the fall of Richmond. Yet there were tense days of awful suspense while Sherman's army assaulted Kennesaw Mountain, then marched through Georgia, disappeared for thirty-two newsless days, and at last reached the sea. Final victory at a staggering cost came with the fall of Richmond and Lee's surrender at Appomattox, April 9, 1865. Victory in sight, political conflict, bitter criticism, and opposition ABRAHAM LINCOLN swelled to a loud crescendo. The Nation, exhausted, spent, and destitute, in mourning, and crushed by the ravages of civil war, in the South, harbored the bitterness of defeat, and in the North and everywhere, empty victory and staggering losses, which rebellion and successful resistance had brought. The bleeding, sorely wounded Nation gasped its way painfully and slowly back to life. Abraham Lincoln had been renominated and re-elected, this time by a popular vote of 2,330,552, to McClellan's 1,835,985. The war was over. Armed resistance had ceased. 'The destruction of war was everywhere, in the lives of the people, in the cities, and in the war-torn countryside. Grief had visited millions of homes. 'The bitterness of defeat and the widespread suffering had taken heavy toll. Sorrow and sacrifice had drained the spiritual reserves of the people. When President Lincoln was inaugurated the second time he expressed the spirit and purpose now well known throughout the world, in the classical statement of good will: 289 With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the night, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan — to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations. In a moment of relaxation when he was about to take up the tasks of rebuilding the shattered and broken parts of the sundered Nation, an assassin took his life. Adversity again snatched away his opportunity, but spared him the knowledge in mortality of the tragic madness which followed his Mary to her grave. Though stalked by hardship, failure, defeat, and tragedy through the greater part of his life, with preciously meager respite in a few successes, Abraham Lincoln, the American Job, is remembered and_ revered throughout the world for vast patience, good will, and affection for mankind, and for monumental firmness in the night as God gave him to see the right. These everlasting qualities have survived the hatred of men, the havoc of war, and death. Ae: compassionate service which Relief Society women universally render so generously and stoically must bring them constantly into situations where adversity of many kinds is suffered by the people they serve. I expect that they observe that adversity has a mellowing effect upon some people and an embittering effect upon others. 'The reaction of people to adversity, I have long thought, is a manifestation of spiritual maturity. Abraham Lincoln is one of America's most eminent examples of the spiritual power required to overcome adversity. Joseph Smith is America's pre-eminent example. I offer this as an explanation of the reason for writing about Abraham Lincoln in the somber, tragic vein of this essay. I think his life is a classic of inspiration for all of us who must at some time face adversity in some degree. —A. HAMER REISER She astern States ll lission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Eastern States Mission may be said to be the oldest mission in the Church. Shortly after the Church was organized, in April 1830, missionaries were sent out and branches were established in New York, Pennsylvania, and in the New England States. In January 1832 Orson Hyde, Samuel H. Smith, Orson Pratt, and Lyman E. Johnson were called to preach the gospel "in the eastern countries." When the Twelve Apostles were called in 1835, they filled their first mission in the Eastern States. In 1837 a branch of the Church was established in New York City by Parley P. Pratt. In May 1839 John P. Greene was appointed by the Prophet Joseph Smith "to go to the city of New York and preside over the Saints in that place and in the regions round about." From that time on active missionary work in the Eastern States was continued, until the coming of Johnston's Army to Utah in 1857, when all the Utah missionaries in the United States were called by President Brigham Young to return home. 'Then, following the Johnston's Army episode, came the great Civil War, which prolonged the crisis. In fact it was not until 1893 that a new mission president was appointed for the Eastern States, Elder Job Pingree of Ogden, who established headquarters in Brooklyn. ": BE icclisa LP ina Courtesy Pennsylvania State Department of Commerce DUTCH BARN "DECORATED JUST FOR FANCY" SOUTHEAST PENNSYLVANIA Page 290 EASTERN STATES MISSION 291 Photo by Roger L. Moore Courtesy New York State Department of Commerce VIEW OF THE BATTERY FROM STATEN ISLAND FERRY NEW YORK CITY Since the return of President Pingree in 1895 the following brethren have served as presidents of this mission: Samuel W. Richards, 1895-97; Alonzo P. Kesler, 1897-99; William H. Smart, 1899-1900; Edward H. Snow, 1900-01; John G. McQuarrie, 1901-08; Ben I. Rich, 1908-13; Walter P. Monson, 1913-19; George W. McCune, 1919-22; Brigham H. Roberts, 1922-27; Henry H. Rolapp, 1927-28; James H. Moyle, 1928-33; Don B. Colton, 1933-37; Frank Evans, 1937-40; Gustave A. Iverson, 1940-44; Roy Doxey, 1944-48; George Q. Morris, 1948-52; Delbert G. Taylor, 1952-55; Theodore C. Jacobsen, 1955-59; Gerald G. Smith, 1959—. In 1937 the great Cumorah Pageant was inaugurated, and since that time it has become an important annual event in the Eastern States Mission. In January 1959, there were 8,726 members of the Church in the Eastern States mission, located in fifty-five branches. 'There were 547 converts baptized during the year 1958. Sixty-four Relief Society organizations, with 1287 members, were reported in December 1958. Florence S. Jacobsen is former president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society, and Olive Lunt Smith is the present president. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Brandywine Park, Wilmington, Delaware," is reproduced from a color transparency by Fred H. Ragsdale, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. See also 'Recipes From the Eastern States Mission," by Sister Jacobsen, page 311. Contest Announcements— 1959 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1959 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who | qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on story writing and poetry which appear in this Magazine and similar articles in the May issue 1955, 1956, 1957, 1958, and in the June issue for the preceding nine years. Eliza &R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1959. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize -.2-2-2-+----$40 Second prize ----+--$30 Third prize 2..-2-----$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1960 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birthmonth of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the nght to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Page 292 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poems. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement ls to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The ELIZA R. SNOW POEM CONTEST Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published.. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a A.0 293 recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1959. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1959 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1959. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize -2.---2------$75 Second prize 2 ------$60 Third prize ---------$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1960. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement ls to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or ac- 294 cepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is closed. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1959. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Would You Write Poetry? Sylvia Probst Young ATCHING a setting sun \¢ streak the summer sky with crimson and gold, a friend exclaimed, "If I could put such beauty in a poem!" "Have you ever tried?" I asked her. "Once," she told me, "but it didn't sound right." A good poem is never written with one trial. If you would write poetry you must know what to strive for, and then practice and practice with the technique you have gained. To be a writer of poetry, I believe that one must first of all be a reader of it. Read the poetry of the ancient writers, the poets of the Bible, early English literature, Shakespeare's poetry and other Elizabethan masterpieces, poetry of the romantic period, the great flowering of Victorian literature, American literature, from colonial times to current poetry. Analyze the types of poems appearing in great variety in modern magazines — literary pubhcations, women's periodicals, and Church magazines. Try to find the elements which make poetry appealing and significant — find the secrets of the art of poetry writing. Poetry, you will find, makes many kinds of appeals, through the pictures it creates; through the feelings it stimulates; through its rhythm and sound. It is a kind of window that has power to illuminate the commonplace. It is a lifting, inspirational thing, and through reading it, many of our own thoughts are born. The inspiration or idea for a poem comes first; it precedes everything WOULD YOU WRITE POETRY? Else; and every day brings inspiration for poetry writing. It is all around us, in the most ordinary things — a baby's shoe, a favorite chair, a child's upturned face. It is in remembered experiences, and those of which we have read. The thoughts for a poem may come through emotions we have experienced, and, most surely, from the fabric of imagination. "Sometimes I have such beautiful thoughts for poems," a neighbor once confided. "But when I get time to write them down, I've forgotten what I wanted to say." Get your idea down on paper, don't let it slip away, if you have to turn off the iron or even get out of bed at three a. M. Write it as it comes to you, don't worry about the meter or rhyme, you will come back to that. I like to keep paper and pencil always with me because I never know just when the idea for a poem might be born. After the inspiration, a poet must transform the raw material for a poem into a poem itself. FURST, let us ask, "Does the poem I am writing have substance?" A poem should tell something. It should give a new light on something people already know. It must be more than a description. It should reflect life. Could anyone possibly say after having read it, "Well, what of it?" "Does this poem have beauty?" is the next thing we might ask. It should be beautiful in its selfless sincerity, a clear, crystal showing of what has been experienced. It should satisfy and content the heart by the precision of its wording. 295 Emily Dickinson's choice of words is one of her greatest charms. And she often chooses words that have become worn to a shadow in minor verses, but she reveals them in new strength, and allows them to perform duties which the poets have not assigned to them for years. I would recommend her works for your reading. Many times in The Relief Society Magazine I have found poetry that gave me heart contentment by the beauty of its wording. Mabel Law Atkinson's "December Violets," The Relief Society Magazine, December 1958, is such a poem: Love does not wait till blue wings flash To bid the heart to sing; Till fluting larks and swelling buds Announce the proof of spring, Love knows no season boundaries, Gives lilacs in November And gathers April violets In crystal-cold December. A good poem never generalizes. Mrs. Atkinson does not say "Gives flowers in November," she says "Gives lilacs." She does not say "fluting birds," but "'fluting larks." Be specific. When you say tree you mean silver birch or oak. It makes a significant difference whether you see in your mind's eye a wisteria or an ivy when you say vine. Strength in a poem is often diminished because the author is too fond of adjectives. How overworked and trite are many of the adjectives we use day by day—stately lily, endless eons, winning ways, azure sky, beautiful day. These are but a few of the timeworn expressions that will brand your poem as the work of 296 an amateur. 'Try something new! Much better than roaring stream ls furious stream. Better than pale moon is chalk-white moon. Red wings of dawn is better than crimson dawn. Whenever possible substitute an adjective with a verb. Verbs give a poem strength, they put subject material into action. Choosing the tight verb is very important, too. Freshness of conception makes itself known by our choice of verbs. Look at these two lines from the song, "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot': A band of angels comin' for me, Comin' for to carry me home— Leave out the verb carry and use take instead. At once you will see that take does not have a tenth the power that carry has. Robert Louis Stevenson's "Windy Nights" is a very good example of the power of verbs in a poem. Nouns are necessary in a poem, adjectives — sometimes. "But by their verbs shall ye know them." Outdated words should never be used in a poem; they will brand it as the work of an amateur. Guard against such words as 'tis, 'twas, 'bide, o'er, yon, neath. Your poem will gain in effectiveness if you let it speak the natural language that you and your readers understand. [MAGERY is another means of making poetry poignant and appealing. Note the use of imagery in these lines from Vesta P. Crawford's prize - winning poem "Drought" (The Relief Society Magazine, January 1935.) And hollow like the dry and wrinkled fruit, I grew to be as withered as the field. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Beholding the desert that leered untamed After its ancient way and gave no yield. Images are always based on memory. Ask yourself, "Of what does it make me think?" There are three musts in imagery: 1. Images should be true, true to what most of us would feel under similar circumstances. 2. Images should be vivid. To make them vivid is to make them appeal to the five senses, five senses, not just sight alone. Give your readers not only pictures to look at, but sounds to hear, fragrance to smell, textures to touch, and even things to taste, and they will enjoy your poems with compounding interest. How appealing to the sense of smell is this little poem by Grace Barker Wilson (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1951): FRAGRANT MEMORIES Remembered things are poignant as today: The scent of violet, The young, green odor of a fresh cut lawn, Essence of mignonette; Elusive sweetness from the orchard trees When apples are in flower, The clean smell of a forest glade After a summer shower. 3. Images should also be concrete; no generalization is successful as an image. By using similies and metaphors, we can make our images interesting, vivid, and concrete. HE reader's point of view is very important to the writer of poetry. Ask yourself, "How will the reader interpret this?" When you are trying for a solemn mood in the reader avoid words which have gay connotations. Many times a word which jars in a line is merely a word in the wrong place. WOULD YOU WRITE POETRY? Repetition of pleasing vowel and consonant sounds is an effective way to attract attention to a particular phrase, and provides a compelling, haunting quality. Note the repetition of sounds in these lines: The singing of a swallow on the summer air. Above the ruffles of the surf Bright striped urchins flay each other with sand. But do not overuse repetition in your poem or the mind of the reader will be carried only on the surface of the sound. Rhythm, we are told, is fundamental to all the arts. In poetry the thythmical pattern consists of various arrangements of stressed and unstressed sounds. 'The meter, or measurable rhythm of a line of poetry, is characterized by a repeated pattern of stressed and unstressed sounds. A stressed sound combined with either one or two unstressed sounds in called a foot, and a description of a line of poetry is given in terms of the basic metrical foot and number of feet in the line. The rhythmical pattern of poetry must be studied to be understood. You can teach yourself this technique. Any good book on the art of poetry writing (I have recommended several at the end of the article) contains practical information. If you are willing to study and practice, you can learn to count the feet of your poem and make it rhythmically patterned. The rhyme scheme of a poem may fall into any one of many patterns, from simple couplet rhyming to complex stanzas, and a poet may try 297 almost any pattern that seems to suit her subject material, and which harmonizes with the mood and effect she wishes to convey. While rhyme is an important and effective embellishment of poetry, care must be exercised in the selection of rhyme words. Do not permit the rhymes to falsify the message of the poem. Be very careful of inversions, and do not use them for the purpose of achieving rhyme. When we say meadows gay, instead of gay meadows, the reader knows that we were forced to make the inversion for the sake of rhyme. Then is the time to revise. Omit the entire stanza if necessary and try another rhyme pattern, but do not use the inversion. Obvious thyming makes a poem commonplace and uninteresting. Such thymes as dove and love, wing and sing, bliss and kiss, have grown stale from overuse. Many significant and enduring poems have been written without regularly recurrent rhyme, without any rhyme, and without definite metrical pattern or stanza form. Poems written "free of traditional limitations" are somewhat loosely classified as free verse. 'The great poet Milton (1608-1674) referred to this type of expression as "thoughts that involuntary move in harmonious numbers." Some moderm poets have spoken of their "free'"" compositions as the "inevitable movement of emotion and meaning." Many unpatterned poems rely for their effect upon cadence, or phrasing within the poem. 'The Englishman, Matthew Arnold, wrote some of his best poems in free verse, and Walt Whitman, in America, is often cited as an example of pro- 298 ficiency in the wide range of free verse. Others who might be studied in this connection are: Amy Lowell, Archibald MacLeish, Conrad Aiken, T. S. Eliot, and Carl Sandburg. The Biblical Psalms, the Song of Solomon, parts of Isaiah, the magnificent chapters thirteen and fifteen from First Corinthians, and many other parts of the Bible are written in free flowing poetry of great strength and spirituality. However, the amateur poet, who is interested in experimenting with free verse, should be sure of his background in poetry, and sure of his purpose in a particular poem. Writing free verse does not give a poet license to express his thoughts in prose and call it poetry. Free verse, in spite of its freedom, places great responsibility upon a_ poet, and makes demands which are less RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 definable and perhaps less easy to attain than the well-defined requirements of traditional patterns. If you would write poetry, you must be willing to study, to accept the disciplines it involves; to be critical of your own work; to revise and revise, until you express to the full intensity and creative rhythm. That which you felt. Never ask yourself, "Is what I've experienced important enough to write about?" Of course it is! Poetry writing is soul satisfying, and an effective poem in print ls worth all of the effort involved. Why don't you try it? Of the books I have found helpful, I would most particularly recommend How to Revise Your Own Poems. It is a practical and helpful book on poetry writing. With it you can begin to teach yourself. REFERENCES Briacxmuir, R. P.: Form and Value in Modern Poetry, Doubleday Anchor Books, 575 Madison Avenue, New York City 22, New York, $1.25. Foucnaux, Mapeine: First Aid for Limping Verse, Camas Press, P. O. Box 3857, North Hollywood, California, 75c. Hamitton, ANNE: How to Revise Your Own Poems, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $1.50. Hittyer, Rosert: First Principles of Verse, Writer's Digest, $2.00. > So My Daughter Camilla Woodbury Judd I have grown old, my daughter, since you went away, Missing the radiance of your shining hair, Missing your face of heavenly sweetness, cameo chiseled; Your skin like velvet flower petals, Your laughing eyes, your lips so tender; The saucy tilt of your nose, the little dent in your forehead; The long expressive hands, so deft and beautiful; Your arms about me — your rare, sweet confidence. Missing all these so much, My heart grows young again at your returning. What's in a Story? Norma A. Wrathall HY don't you write a story \\) for The Relief Society Magazine Short Story Contest? Maybe you have already started one. Or maybe all you need is to get started. Let us begin with a definition, and then consider some of the ingredients of the short story. A short story has been defined as a prose narrative which depicts characters in processes of struggle and complications. 'The narrative usually centers around a principal character, with a special problem, against a specific background. A dominant purpose or theme should be in evidence, and the effective short story is marked by dramatic interest, involving significant human experience. In every story, six elements are present: setting (place); persons (characters); events (plot); idea (theme); emotion; and style. I have not listed them in order of their importance, for in any given story one element may predominate over the others. But in every story, all are present to some degree. There are three main steps in building the story: (1) finding the story; (2) building the plot; and (3) developing the narrative. Perhaps you have noted an expression on someone's face showing great joy, strong anger, or deep sorrow. 'The emotion seemed so intense that you kept thinking about it. You wondered what could have caused anyone to feel that way. You may remember a similar feeling in yourself, and recall the circumstance. You may wonder what events might have led to it, what had happened to the person to cause him to react in that way. And you have the germ of a story. Or, you may know of a series of events in which everything worked out rather smoothly, eventually turning out as planned. But you might wonder, what if something had happened to change those plans? What if, at a certain point, things had gone wrong? What then? And you would begin to have a story; you would think what the people (characters) might have done in the emergency, how each would have reacted to disappointment; what would have been the outcome. Or, you may have visited a place that fairly teemed with a story, such as a remote house; an abandoned farm; a seemingly peaceful village with an undercurrent of turmoil. Or, you may have a belief that you want to portray in dramatic action. I have read much discussion as to whether one should begin with theme, character, or plot. It is like trying to decide the old question of the chicken or the egg? As far as we are concerned, perhaps we should begin with the element that suggested the story in the first place, and then build in the other parts. This means that if we start with character, we decide on a certain characteristic in the person (such as truthfulness). We then portray this quality by presenting the character in incidents to which he will react to reveal this quality. If we start with plot, we have in mind a series Page 299 300 of significant incidents, then decide what characters would be necessary to bring to pass these events. In the same manner, one might begin with theme or setting. We can't have a story at all without people. N the short story, there is room for only one leading character. This person must be in focus most of the time in the story, if not in actual fact, then by reference. He should be rounded out as much as possible by his thoughts and feelings, his reactions to certain events, his reactions to other people, his appearance, the way he moves, walks, and talks. One or two minor characters, not so fully characterized, may be used to bring out the main character. But they must always be subordinate to him. Don't have any "scene stealers" in your dramatic situations. If you do, the story will be muddled and the reader confused. The character should be made sympathetic to the reader, so that the reader can identify himself with the story-person, and will care what happens to him. And before you can cause the reader to identify with the character, you, the writer, must identify with him yourself. You must be able to feel as he feels, think as he thinks, before you know how he will react to certain situations. Make your character natural and human. Even an evil character must be shown in such a way that the reader will think, "Well, I guess that's what I'd do, if I were that kind of person!" Everything that you write about the character must bring out the characteristic that you are trying to portray. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Here are some steps in character development: (1) Seleet an outstanding characteristic and show (as early in the story as possible) how the character acts to portray that quality. (2) Characterize by telling or showing the thoughts and feelings of the person. (3) Develop character in dialogue, ° which includes the speech of the characters in conversation, and also what other people in the story say about the main character. In writing dialogue, train your car to listen to your characters speak. Speech is one of the most difficult things in writing. For it one is not careful, all the characters will be talking alike, and chances are, in the same way as the author! (4) Appearance is important, especially so if appearance can be made to show, by comparison or contrast, the inner feelings of the person. For example: Aunt Sade's hair had always been held tightly at the sides by two brown combs. It wound into a smooth coil at the back, always in the same place, with the same thickness and smoothness. A lock had never been known to escape either of the combs and curl upon her high white forehead; it would not dare! (5) You can individualize your character by some little trait— such as pulling at his ear while thinking. (6) Movement is a language in itself, and sometimes shows far more than any of the other ways. Examples: Diana's bare toes skimmed over the dew-wet grass, a naughty elf fleeing from the prosaic morming ritual of getting dressed. Old Ernst placed one foot ahead of the other with such calculated economy of motion that one had to watch him a moment to know if he really moved. Remember, you cannot characterize your actor and then have done with it once and for all. You must keep on characterizing him right up to, and including, the end of the story. Now that you have the idea for your story, and the characters WHAT'S IN A STORY? Well in mind, it is time to begin on step two, building the plot. Don't believe it if someone tells you that she is not interested in plot. As well try to bake a cake without a recipe, or sew a dress without a pattern. The plot is the framework of the story, the skeleton upon which is placed flesh and skin and coloring. It consists of a series of dramatic happenings, arranged in climactic order, and containing struggle or complication. The first part of the plot is the situation. It contains the want of the principal character, and the problem which seems to prevent him from getting it. This part may end with the dramatic climax (the point at which the character despairs of attaining his desire). 'The second part is the solution, in which the character brings about, by his own effort or decision, the solving of the problem. To avoid a "forced result," it is well to have treated in the situation every factor used in the solution. 'The want should be introduced as early as possible in the story. It must be strongly motivated, so that the reader will be interested in knowing how it turns out. By complication is meant not merely a series of obstacles or stumbling blocks which can be rather easily overcome. For instance, we might be writing about a young girl who is going to college. We give her a strong motive for wanting to earn her degree in June. To do so, she must get credit in French. She is not linguistic, and the subject is hard for her, but by studying late at nights, and taking many notes, she thinks she can pass. But she loses her notebook just before the test. However, she finds it again in time 301 to "cram" for the exam. These things would hinder her, but they would not be complication. Suppose that when the girl found her notebook at the last minute, she stayed up nearly all night to study. But she was so tired and unnerved that right in the middle of the test she began to weep and ran out of the room, thus flunking the course. So, according to the rules, she would not be allowed to graduate in June. Now, based upon what you might have shown about her, what will she do? Will she accept meekly the ruling of the committee? Or will she find some way out of the dilemma? 'This would be complication, because it would change the course of action, and it would involve emotional conflict in the leading character. SOMETIMES the character may attain his original want, only to find that it is not what he needed or wanted after all, and a substitute goal is found. 'This usually grows out of, or is a variant of, the original want; it may be in the nature of a decision. Sometimes the struggle exists almost entirely in the mind of the character, and a decision is the outcome. But in any case, the pattern is the same: the well-defined want; the complication which seems to prevent its attainment; the solution to the problem. Write out your plot in outline form, in whatever way you like. I usually write in short sentences, double-spaced typing, then go over it and see if the incidents lead logically into each other. After I have written my outline, I often write the end of the story, rapidly, just as it comes to me, and 302 sometimes the first two or three paragraphs of the beginning of the story. Then, even with all the interruptions which happen to my writing, I can go back and get into the mood of it again. Each writer must decide what is the best way for her. Now we have finished for the time being with steps one and two. We are ready for the final step, the actual writing. Well, nearly ready. Who is to tell the story? If a character tells it, you will write in first person—the "T' story. If the author tells it, you will write in third person. 'Think it out in several ways. Now write your story. Write. Keep going, to the end, if possible, without thinking of wording or construction or technique. When you have finished, put the story away for several days, or even weeks. Forget it. This step is just as important as any part of the writing. When you are ready to begin again, read it entirely through from beginning to end as if you had never seen it before. Now you begin the real work of writing, the revision. Be sure that you have your writer's tools at hand, including your Roget's 'Thesaurus, a good dictionary, and a book of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 English grammar and composition for reference. Ask yourself these questions about the story: (1) Would the narrative move along just as well and be just as true and interesting without this incident? If so, leave it out. (2) What is the purpose of each incident? Does each one carry out, or lead toward, the general purpose of the story? (3) Is each incident, and the act of each character, properly motivated? (4) Does the story have suspense and emotional appeal? Cutting and shortening the story are also a part of revision, for you will always have to meet certain word-length requirements. As you see, there are many things to consider. But the best way to learn to write is by writing. Read published stories, and see how our principles of the short story are carried out by the authors. Read and study good reference books and articles in writers' magazines. And be sure to keep a notebook of ideas and characterizations, scribbled in quickly as they come to mind. Now put this article away. Write your story. You will work, and dream, and despair over it. But whatever its fate, if you have given it your best, you are a winner; for ahead of success is achievement. You have achieved something, and the result is uplifting and rewarding. REFERENCES Bares, E. H.: The Modern Short Story, $3.00 Extwoop Maren: Characters Make Your Story, $4.00 MirriELeEs, Eviru M.: Story Writing, $3.50. The books listed above may be purchased from The Writer, Inc. Publishers, 8 Arlington, Street, Boston 16, Massachusetts RoGET's THESAURUS, $1.90 Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio. Louisa Helen M. Livingston HE long train of handcarts pushed on through the dusty afternoon. "Keep moving. Fight miles yet to go. We'll make the Sweetwater tonight." This word came down the line from the leader of the Enoc Company. Louisa pushed along. The extra sack of flour from the provision wagon made the pushing harder. Sometimes it seemed that that extra fifty pounds were right on her shoulders. But she mustn't look tired or Brother Thames next to her would take the sack on his load. Brother 'Thames was small and wiry. He had supervised linen looms and was not fitted for heavy pulling and his load was twice as big as Louisa's. He carried for a family. His wife was ill and hardly able to get herself along, and three-year-old Melinda had to sit on the load much of the time. So the sun beat down. This was strange dry country. When a breeze came it was not salty, nor cool, nor damp from the sea. It was dry and crisp and took all the moisture out of your skin, and out of your mouth. Louisa saw buffalo tracks at the side of the trail. It might have been wet when the huge animal walked there, but those tracks were hard and dry now. A scaly lizard at the side of the trail looked at her with startled, beady eyes, then slithered away in the shadscale brush. Louisa touched her hand to her face. Her own skin felt as brown and rough as the lizard's. She pulled her big bonnet closer over her face and pinned the neck of her dress a little higher. If only her foot would stop hurting, Louisa thought. 'The sturdiest shoes she could buy, too, and all out at the sides! She had come on that cactus so suddenly the other day. She had sat at the side for awhile and taken out the spines. But it still pained. It was getting worse. The heated rays of the sun shot right down through her broken shoe like sharp knives, and her whole foot was throbbing. It felt like the great wheel of the cart was turning on her foot. Once they came to a spring; no, not a spring, just a bog. But they dug deep holes until the water oozed in, then they gathered around in groups and drank the water. Little Melinda broke loose from her father's hand. She rushed toward the water and didn't wait until she reached the hole. She just caught up a handful of black mud and thrust it into her mouth, sucking the moisture onto her dry lips and tongue. Louisa, cupping her hands, brought water to Melinda. As it seeped through her fingers she put out her throbbing foot to catch the cool drops. But time couldn't be wasted at the spring. Soon the Fnoc train was pushing on again. "Keep your own place in your own company." Each person tried to follow the directions, but every now and then a cart would be stopped at the roadside. One cart Page 303 304 had a cover that fell over at the side, making a little tent. As the carts pushed past, Louisa heard the cry of a new baby. She thought of her own mother back in England. She thought of her younger brothers and sisters. She wanted to leave the line and rush into the crude tent, but she moved mechanically on, looking into the dry distance. If you walked this far in England you would come to ocean, but there were no oceans here, just desert and the far distant mountains. But she mustn't think of England. It was best her father and mother had stayed. They could come later. How her foot throbbed, but she remembered the words of the prophet, "Let them gird up their loins and walk through and nothing shall hinder them." She lifted her head higher. 'The load seemed lighter. Her sore foot eased. HE afternoon wore on. Another cart was stopped at the side of the trail. It was Levi Andrus. Louisa brushed the dust from her navy alpaca and _ straightened her brown hair under her bonnet. Levi had danced with her the first night they had camped. "Tl have to save the axle," Levi told Brother Thames, as he fitted his only leather jacket around the axle. "You need something Lad. Here, take my belt." Louisa untied the big bow under her chin and jerked off one of the ties. "Take this, as well.'' Her bonnet fell back from her face. Levi's quick eye saw the white skin on her forehead where her bonnet had covered. It made a pale border around the deep brown of the freckles on her nose and chin. To tie it, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 "Looks as if you need your bonnet held tight." But Levi didn't give the tie back. They left him tugging at his axle. The sun dropped behind the western horizon. There was no singing along the long lines now. The tired bodies bent forward, pushing and pulling. 'The slow creaking of. Wheels continued. "No stop until we reach the Sweetwater." They kept doggedly on. But when the sun sank the heat went, too, and a cold chill came over the plains. "There are three graves to be dug when we stop." The word came to Brother Thames, but it was passed along up and down the lines and settled with the cold evening on the company. Word came that snow was already in the mountains. 'There was no time to waste. Brother 'Thames murmured, "May the Lord in his mercy preserve us." The words were repeated like a prayer down the line sounding much like a chant as it echoed back. "May the Lord in his mercy preserve us." At last the handcart company could smell the Sweetwater River. Dry nostrils sniffed the damp breeze, and the train picked up speed. Shoulders lifted and pushed harder, finally a shout went up from the front. The bank was soon lined with carts. The people were drinking and dipping their hands into the water. Many fell upon the bank not wanting to move. It was dark and the water was cold, but the sacks were removed from the feet of those whose shoes were gone and they dipped their feet in the cold water. Louisa removed what was left of LOUISA her broken shoe. Her foot was swollen. It looked as if a fire were inside it. She washed it and sat holding it. The carts that had lagged were pushing up into their own places. Levi's cart with the leather-wrapped axle came creaking into view. He stopped and dropped down by Louisa. He noticed the swollen foot. "It needs to be opened." Brother 'Thames bent over, too, and examined the swelling as if it were a flaw in a length of lovely linen. "Best get it cared for tonight, so you can be on it tomorrow." OUISA looked helpless. Levi comforted, "It's not so bad. If the pressure is relieved it will be better." He slipped out his sharp knife and handed it to her. She shook her head. "Would you?" she asked. He hesitated. Then slid over to the water. He scoured the knife in the white sand. "Now," he said, "put your foot here. Then I can't see your face, and you can't see your foot." It was done in a second. Blood stained the white sand. "Do you have something with which to wrap it?" Louisa shook her head. Levi took from his pocket a neat, folded, bonnet tie, and with quick, skilled movements, he wrapped the foot and tied the bandage. Many of the carts were already being unloaded. The tired train of emigrants was just getting ready for the night when a loud call came from behind. "We _ will push through the river tonight." Unrest filled the train. Sighs and 305 complaints filled the air. '""We've come fifteen miles today." "It's cold; we can't take icy water tonight." "Our cart is already unloaded." "It's dark; we'll slip on the rocks." "Our feet are already bleeding." No one moved toward the water. "How is your foot?" Levi asked. He took her broken shoe and went to his cart. "We'll push through the water tonight," the call re-echoed from the captain. No one moved. 'There was just a low cough of complaining. Then an axle squeaked. A cart moved into the river. Then a clear, vibrant voice rose over the water. "Come, come, ye saints, no toil nor labor fear." Other carts were moved. More voices were singing. The whole company came in on the chorus, "AI] is well, all is well." The air vibrated. The carts were moving on through the water. 'The emptied ones were being filled. 'The last verse echoed joyously out through the valley. The large camp fire was burning on the other side as the last carts came up the bank from the water. Steam rose from wet clothing. Camps were set for the night. Levi brought her shoe back to Louisa. "Did your foot make it through the water?" He called her Louesa. She corrected him. "Louisa. My mother is named Louisa. My grandmother is. Louisa. It has always been Louisa. It has to be Louisa." Levi looked deep by the light of the dying fire. Right," he said, "Blue-eyes." into her face, "All Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" OBEDIENCE WITHOUT SEVERITY: Law is the governing force of the universe.... Nevertheless there are persons who hesitate to compel obedience lest they might injure the child's will power. But we think this is not so. Too frequently where there is strong will power displayed it is a manifestation of selfishness. Children do sometimes have strong instinctive desires in the right direction; therefore their motives should be most cautiously considered.... A stubborn, unconquered child is sure to develop into a man so self-centered and determined to have his own way that he will forego pleasures and even success rather than retract, and will be as he was when a child, his own greatest enemy.. —Amy Brown Lyman EDUCATION AND MOTHERHOOD: The knowledge stored in days of youth can be brought forth from time to time, to enrich the minds of the children. 'They must look up to the mother; feel that she possesses the very acme of wisdom; then they are willing and respectful subjects. Mothers, live with your children, answer all their manifold questions... You must retain and add to the education of early years. The education obtained in school days, is only the foundation on which to erect the life structure. —Lydia D. Alder Am el "LC a Religious freedom on thy soil, Was born 'mid struggling bands, And Liberty to light the world, In New York harbor stands. Shine on thou incandescent light, Nor let thy rays grow dim, Bring joy to earth's inhabitants, With thy effulgent gleam. —Lucy A. Clark A FLOURISHING BRANCH: San Diego, California. In this far off, beautiful southern city of between twenty and twenty-six thousand, there is a little band of Saints organized, numbering probably thirty-five souls, all told.... The Relief Society is under the able management of Sister Amelia Jewell, at whose home the sisters convene... For the purpose of testifying of God's goodness and blessings, and to lend themselves physically for the relief and succor of those in need. —Rhoda Celestia Nash NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY: This society is so perfectly organized that it is comparatively easy to carry out any plan formulated by the General Board.... Thus there are divisions and subdivisions of the society, which consists at present of thirty thousand members and more than six hundred branches scattered through this and other countries and on the islands of the sea. —r. B. W. Page 306 MR> MARY M. ROBERTS, who died in January 1959, was editor of the American Journal of Nursing from 1921 to 1949, and editor emeritus until her death. She regarded nursing as an "all-encompassing service in response to a universal human need." She was cited and decorated for distinguished service in many fields of nursing. HE Women's State Legislative Council of Utah has received international recognition because of the Commitment Law, which it spearheaded six years ago. 'This legislation makes it easier for mentally ill people to be admitted for observation or treatment at the state hospital on a voluntary basis. It also deletes the word insane so frequently used in former legislation and makes several other enlightened improvements. 'This law, it is said, will be the basis of similar legislation in India and has been copied by Arizona and New Mexico. RS. KATHERINE G. CAPT is survey statistician, Division of Statistical Research, United States Bureau of the Census, Washington, D. C. It is her responsibility to find, through the research and experiments of various workers, the most accurate and effective ways of making surveys to form a basis for governmental action. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. CATHERINE BYRNE, Lord Mayor of Dublin, IreJand, was an honored guest in New York City on St. Patrick's Day, March 17, 1959, when 120,000 Irishmen took over Fifth Avenue. <Accompanied by Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, she reviewed the marchers. MR*: JOSEPHINE PERFECT BAY was appointed recently to the chairmanship of the board of directors of the American Export Lines. She is the first woman to head a major steamship line. Mrs. Bay was born in Iowa and inherited extensive financial interests when her husband, Charles Ulrick Bay, former United States Ambassador to Norway, died in 1955. RS. CLAIRE BOOTH LUCE, former Ambassador to Italy from 1953 to 1957, has been named ambassador to Brazil. Mrs. Luce won considerable acclaim for the conduct of her office in Italy. MOGEN HOLST, musical secretary to Britain's brilliant composer, Benjamin Britten, is co-author with him of The Wonderful World of Music (Garden City Books). This volume explains music to children imaginatively and delightfully. Page 307 ee DIT ORIAL m2 VOL. 46 MAY 1959 NO. 5 (Books — Recorders for the Ages... Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:11:18). AN it be that the wide and wonderful world of books is being lost to many of our generation? Each year more and more good books become available—the thoughts and researches, the conclusions of great minds of our time, and innumerable new editions of the classics of the past. History, science, literature, books on art, volumes of sacred scriptures are easily secured. Books are being circulated through libraries in towns and cities, and, in some areas, bookmobiles distribute books even in isolated regions. Books on myriad subjects, suitable for all age groups, are available at small cost. Books, the recorders for the ages, companions of all generations, encompassing the tablets of the past and foreshadowing the future, are within reach for our information, our entertainment, our inspiration, and our spiritual advancement. Yet there are many homes which lack this illumined acquaintanceship, and which seem to be unaware of these treasures of knowledge. Perhaps we value lightly the opportunities which are abundant. Our fathers and our mothers, our grandparents, many of them rejoiced in the few books they owned and the ones they were able to borrow. Books of poems, histories, Bibles, were brought in covered wagons and in handcarts to the valleys of the Page 308 mountains, and the books were read by evening firelight, by flickering candles; they were read on Sabbath afternoons, on long journeys; and they were read by the farmer at noontime rest beside his field; mothers read to their children in shade of poplar trees and on the cabin porch. Isolation became union with a world of faraway people and places. Pioneer families on lonely ranches companioned themselves with books. Rejoicing in her measure of such companionship, was a teenage girl, living all summer at her father's sheep camp on the mountain range. Only one book was available, a small, paper-bound book, filled with words of lasting strength and beauty "the light shineth in darkness... The voice of one crying in the wilderness.... There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water a well of water springing up into everlasting life." 'There were twenty-one chapters in the little book, and each chapter was divided and rationed, read over and over again, so that there would be a little reading for each of the long summer days that stretched slowly to evening on the high blue ridges. 'The small, paper-bound book was the Gospel of John, and when the girl became a woman she still loved books and rejoiced when other books and other scriptures opened for her the illimit- EDITORIAL able vistas of this world and the worlds to come. If we lose for ourselves the world of books, we lose much of our heritage; we lose the selectivity that may be exercised in choosing those volumes that will embellish our thoughts and our ways with treasures proved through the long years, and new delights that come to us in poem and story, in travelogues, in new light on ancient places, accounts of the widening panoramas of change. The myriad rooms of wonderment that books open are available to us 309 and to our children. The books we read to our little ones in this their day of tender impressions will be their memories tomorrow, and they will hold in high esteem and with a lasting love, that mother or father, that grandmother or grandfather, that kind companion who sat beside the child and turned the pages of a book, opening for him the glorious world of experience and inspiration —the world that is so wide and so wonderful, and yet so small that books can capture much of it, for books are the recorders of the ages. —V. P. C. — Dream. Come Srue Ida Elaine James My head is bent over blossom-white seams No whiter, no sweeter than are my dreams. Into the shining needle there goes A vision of cuddly dimpled toes And pink cheeks smooth as the summer's rose. Into the web of my threads are run Bird-like laughter and glint of sun— The shimmering pathway of dreams begun. Thread and needle, fly swift and free, Make the dream that I hold come true to me. My lother Elsie McKinnon Strachan A part of prairie Jand, I see her still Wherever meadow grasses scent the air; Wherever plain folk work a gentle hill, A picture lives for me, undimmed and clear. Bright picture of my mother as she came Across the hayfield, bringing me warm bread, Fresh-baked and sweet, calling out my name— Wind billowing her dress of faded red. And when our lunch was over, she would go, Skirts full and blowing, sunlight in her hair, Back through the cut hay, milk jug swinging low, Her color ebbing on the bright blue air. I'll see her always where wild sweet grasses bend, My prairie mother walking in the wind. She Right Circles And awake and arise... And strengthen thy stakes and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou mayest no more be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he hath made unto thee.. FiNCIRCLED, as we are, by the gifts and blessings so_ freely granted through the mission and teachings of Jesus Christ, and through the enlightenment and verification of the restored gospel, we are heirs of the covenant. As such we are entitled to as much progression and as much joy as our own capacities and obedience will allow us to receive. It is a natural feeling for those who have been given participation in a rewarding earth life and in a glorious promise for the eternities— it is a natural wish for them to share their riches with others and to spread the tidings that many may join in the blessings and participate in "the right circles." A formal missionary system was established early in the history of the Church. 'Through revelation the Prophet Joseph Smith instructPage 310. May be fulfilled (Moroni 10:31). Ed a group of early missionaries: "And from this place [Kirtland, Ohio] ye shall go forth into the regions westward; and inasmuch as ye shall find them that will receive' you ye shall build up my church in every region" (D & C 42:8). Though all of us are not called to special missions, we are all missionari€s in one way or another. The child who invites his playmate to Primary is enlarging the circle of joyful companionship. The older son who takes a school friend with him to Mutual gives this friend an opportunity to see life as it progresses in the gospel circle. The woman at home may be one to lift her voice and share her heritage. If she is alert to the needs of her neighbors, she may invite a seamstress, or one interested in handicraft, to the work meeting, and open for her the blessings and opportunities of Relief Society. Young mothers, through interest and invitation, may be gathered into the circle of homemakers who are enriched by participation in the lessons that give them instruction and inspiration. Many women who love literature may find this to be the portal of their entrance into Relief Society. As the first Section of the Doctrine and Covenants so well expresses the wideness of the gospel message, it is forever an enlarging circle: "Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together ' (D&C 1:1). Recipes From the astern States Mission Submitted by Florence S. Jacobsen FROM THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH RECIPES In the early years of the eighteenth century, nearly all the first settlers in Eastern Pennsylvania came from the Palatinate in Germany. They brought with them Tecipes of famous German cooks. Life was hard in America, and it was not always possible to SAUERBRATEN (Pot Roast) 4 pounds beef (chuck, rump, or round) 1 bunch carrots, cut in strips 1 pint vinegar 6 onions, sliced water 1 tbsp. Sugar 4 bay leaves 10 gingersnaps 12 peppercorns salt and pepper 4 Cloves Wipe meat with damp cloth and then sprinkle thoroughly with salt and pepper. Place in earthen dish and add vinegar and enough water to cover. Add the bay leaves, Peppercorns, and cloves, and let stand tightly covered for 5 days in a cool place (refrigerator). Put meat in a Dutch oven and brown well on all sides, Add the carrots and onions and 1 cup of the spiced vinegar. Cever tightly and cook over low flame about 3 hours or until meat is tender. When meat ls cooked, add the sugar and crum.- bled gingersnaps and cook for 10 minutes. This makes delicious gravy. If necessary, more of the spiced vinegar may be added. LEMon Tarts Sweet Pastry Dough 1 c. Flour % c. Butter or other shortening "2 C. Sugar Y2 tsp. Baking powder egg yolk Mix flour, sugar, butter, and baking powder together. Moisten ingredients using enough beaten egg yolk to make a dough just stiff enough to handle. Roll thin and line two small tart pans (small pie tins) with dough. Prick the bottom with a fork and bake in hot oven 260 minutes (400°), Lemon Tart F illing 2 tbsp. Cornstarch. Grated rind of % lemon 1 c. Brown sugar juice of 1 lemon (large) 2 c. Boiling water butter, size of walnut 72 Cc. Molasses (mild) Mix cornstarch and sugar together and slowly add to the boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook until mixture thickens. Add molasses, butter, lemon tind, and juice. Cook one minute longer. Cool slightly and pour into baked pie shell. Serve warm or cold. Serves 6-8, Page 31] 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 APPELSTRUDEL 2% c. Flour 1 c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Salt "2 ¢. Seedless raisins 2 tbsp. Shortening "2 ¢. Chopped nuts 2 eggs, slightly beaten 3 tbsp. Melted butter "2 C. Warm water "A tsp. Cinnamon 5 c. Sliced apples grated rind of a lemon Sift flour and salt together. Cut in the 2 tbsp. Shortening, then add the eggs and water. Knead well, then throw or beat dough against board until it blisters. Stand it in a warm place under a cloth for 20 minutes. Cover the kitchen table with a small: white cloth and flour it. Put dough on it. Pull out dough with hands very carefully to thickness of tissue paper. Spread with mixture made of the sliced apples, melted butter, raisins, nuts, brown sugar, cinnamon, and grated lemon rind. Fold in outer edges and form a roll about 4 inches wide. Bake in a very hot oven (450°) for 10 minutes, reduce the heat to moderately hot oven (375°) and continue to bake about 20 minutes. Let cool. Cut into slices about 2 inches wide. Serve warm or cold. SHOOFLY PIE Make favorite pastry recipe and line two pie tins with dough rolled very thin (makes filling for two 8-inch pies). Crumbs for Pie Liquid for Pie 3 c. Flour 1% tsp. Soda 1 C. Sugar small amount cold water pinch salt 1 c. Light molasses "2 ¢. Shortening 1 c. Boiling water % tsp. Grated nutmeg Mix crumbs ingredients into a crumbly mixture. Take out handful of crumbs and reserve for top of pies. Mix soda with a small amount of cold water. Mix hot water and molasses until thoroughly dissolved. Add soda. Pour molasses mixture into the crumb mixture. Mix thoroughly and pour into unbaked pie shell. Sprinkle the spare crumbs on top and bake in a moderate (350°) oven about 60 minutes. FROM THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY ECONOMY PRUNE CAKE "2 ¢. Fat 1 ¢c. Nuts 1 c. Sugar 2% c. Flour 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2 tsp. Soda % tsp. Salt 2 c. Cooked prunes cut fine, and enough " tsp. Cloves juice to fill measuring cup 7 tsp. Nutmeg Cream fat and sugar together. Add vanilla. Add soda to prunes and juice. Mix dry ingredients together. Add nuts and pruncs to creamed fat and sugar, and stir thoroughly. Last add dry ingredients. Bake in greased cake pan at 300° F. For 60 minutes. (May bake in layers if desired — requires less baking time.) WHIPPED CREAM FROSTING FOR PRUNE CAKE 2 tbsp. Flour % c. Shortening Y, ¢,. Milk Yc. Butter or butter substitute "A Cc. Sugar Gem of the Fulls Lydia M. Sorensen 66 HY are you milking the cow so early?" I asked. "The sun's still 'way woe re going for a walk,'"" Mamma answered. "Couldn't we do the chores after we come back?" "No. Not tonight. We'll be too tired." Her answers, cut short with an intense earnestness in her preparations, sharpened our curiosity. "After milking, she fed the cow. With Papa away from home for several days, Mama had the full responsibility. "Where are we going?" I persisted. "You'll see." My three-year-old sister and I frequently walked up in the cedars behind the corral. Mamma hardly ever went with us. By all the preparations she was making, she must be planning a long walk, maybe past the field to the west and clear up into the cedars beyond on the road up the ditch. It was miles in either direction before the road led by another home. But, as children, we enjoyed exploring our cedar-bound world. While it was unusual for Mamma to go along, this time the idea was hers. Preparations complete, she placed the baby in the buggy and led the way south down the road. When it turned east toward the dugway, she left the road and continued south across the stubble field. Having crossed the field, we came to soft, dusty soil. Were Mamma had to carry the baby while we pushed the Page 314 buggy. That soon became too difficult, so we turned it around and pulled it. Being tired and hot, we grumbled about it. To encourage us for the task, she told us about the trek of the pioneers. At the moment pioneering held no charms ° for us, but the prospect of being left in this desolate place was even less attractive. Since our erstwhile considerate Mother determinedly kept on going despite our entreaties to go back, we had no choice but to follow. When we reached the sand knolls where the cedars grew, the carriage had to be abandoned. It was left under a tree and we girls carried the baby's supplies. 'Trudging on, we arrived at the edge of the hill. A complete surprise awaited us children. Far below in a natural cove, like a jewel in its setting, nestled a spot of vivid green. As we studied the scene, we could make out what appeared to be miniature trees, a wee little house, and some other diminutive buildings. And then, would wonders never cease? There were the tiniest people we had ever seen. "Look at the tiny little people walking around!" I exclaimed. "I could hold one in my hand." I had never heard of Gulliver nor his Lilliputian friends, but I had my own variety of little people, colonies of them. 'They were dry cedar twigs of toothpick dimensions whom I] moved by hand and clothed with imagination, giving them all the attributes of the living which my young mind could devise. GEM OF THE HILLS In a flash I thought how delightful it would be to take these people home to play with, care for, and protect. My sister was equally enchanted. The fact that the people went about their business in a purposeful manner and seemed capable of looking out for themselves was quite beside the point. If a dog should come along, they might be glad to have us keep him away from them. "I didn't know there were any real people that little," [ marveled. "Those people are as big as we are,' Mamma replied to our unbelieving dismay. "They look little because they are so faraway. We're going down there," she added. A fear of strangers sprang up in my mind, but I looked to natural barriers for protection. "We can't get down over the ledges," I objected. "We'd fall off." But she knew a trail. "Maybe they're mean people," I cautioned. "No, they're good people,' she reassured us. "Do you know them?" "Yes." As we made our way down, I kept hoping that the people would remain at least a little smaller than we. But they gradually increased in size to knee high, waist high, shoulder high, until some of them outgrew all of us. By the time we reached the level ground, the house had become large enough for us to enter and, approaching it, we were glad for the cool shade of the towering trees. UR disappointment in the loss of our tiny people was compensated for and our fears allayed by the warmth of a full-grown welcome. 315 This was the family of our bishop. They were most solicitous of us, especially of our tired little mother. Nevertheless, the combination of fatigue and my sudden change from the big potential protector of these people to a little child dependent upon their hospitality, along with a little jealousy, made me a bit pcevish. Perhaps one of the hardest lessons to learn in life is to achieve contentment in going from strength to weakness, whether real or imagined. Is it possible? First I wanted a drink of water which was gladly given—cool and delicious. Then I whimpered that I was hungry. Supper would be ready in about half an hour our hostess assured us, and gave each of us a peach from their orchard. 'Then she suggested that I go out and play with the children. Feeling shy, I did not want to do that, but the peach was good; so I whimpcred some more to Mamma, who was paying no attention to me and was getting more of the peach than I was. 'lhis time we were given some large blue plums which I did not like as well as the peach, but I had to be satisfied. Their children had a playhouse, the only real playhouse I ever saw. I remember their tall father stooping to enter as they had asked him to examine something that needed fixing. He said he would fix it. In a little while we were called to supper. It was good when we were tired and hungry to find people so graciously ready to administer to our comfort. We stayed all night. At bedtime, one after another, the smaller children knelt at their mother's knee to say their prayers. 316 The other children having finished, the baby wanted to say her prayer. Kneeling on her mother's lap, she repeated a syllable or two each time her mother paused, and finished with evident satisfaction. Later, in the privacy of our assigned bedrooms we offered our own prayers. In the morning at breakfast, milk was poured from a brown and white pitcher, over a cereal made of bread crumbs. As the brother and older sister set out on foot for school nearly two miles distant, their father kindly admonished them not to play on the way. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 When we were ready to go, the bishop carried the baby up the hill. At the top Mamma thanked him warmly as she once more took the child. They were wonderful people. They moved away, and I missed them in later years when I traveled that trail many times on horseback. Or on foot herding cows or sheep. The house and other buildings all disappeared from their places by the orchard and shade trees. Yet wherever they lived and wherever we lived, that bishop's family were always among our warmest friends. <>- Grandmother s Pinks Maude Rubin Remember those carnations? How their spice Perfumed the rain-washed stillness! Leafy loam Was black and rich—and when the creek's glare ice Began to sing, our grandmother's heart-home Was out-of-doors, her floor the sun-warmed earth; She left the indoor tasks, to help at birth Of summer, hands as spring showers. Then when carnation petals burst their tight Green buds, to spill their spice on sun-rich air, We went to Sabbath school in fresh-starched white— She gave us each one crimson "pink" to wear! >_> WVreeds Celia Luce T seems that no matter how hard I work in the garden, some weeds will creep in. I go after the big weeds with a will. I pull up redroot and wild lettuce and make the garden a thing of beauty again. But, often, in my fight with the large weeds, I fail to notice that stunted redroot behind the bushes and that small wild lettuce on the dry spot. Them there. Have my battle to do all over again. I go my way and leave Next year their seeds grow into huge wild lettuce and redroot, and I J am constantly fighting my faults, trying to pull them out and discard them as I do the weeds. The large faults worry me a lot, and I go after them. But I often forget little faults hidden in the background. Foolishly, I let them grow until they are the seeds for large faults. My battle must be fought again. You Can Sew— XV — Childrens Clothing Jean R. Jennings IMPLICITY is the keynote for good styling in children's clothing, as it is for clothing of all sizes and ages. Not only do our young ones look better in clothes not too fussy or elaborate, but they will be more comfortable in them, and there will be less time and effort needed for their care. Trimmings on girls' dresses should not be heavy or ornate. Fine tucking, narrow, dainty ruffles, hand stitches, smocking, narrow pipings, cording, and binding are the desirable and natural finishes for children's clothes. More often than not, the trim that is most effective is the easiest to use. Mothers faced with the problem of making children's clothing, regardless of how simple or complicated the project, can save a great deal of time and effort by planning carefully in advance of the start of the actual sewing. As far as possible, plan the season's work as a unit. Make a careful list of things to be purchased such as fabrics, trimmings, notions, etc. Keep the list with you in your handbag and pick up an item here and there as you pass by, instead of making many special trips. Or better still, make one trip do for all purchasing. In families where there are several children, there is much sewing to be done, and an even greater need for economy of time and energy. One way to save time in sewing is to cut several garments at once. Make notes of any special things to remember about each article, such as piecing, etc. And attach it to the proper article for reference when machine sewing begins. Put everything needed for each garment together in a separate roll so that you can do all the machine work at one time. Introduce assembly-line efficiency into your family sewing by sewing several articles as one unit. _ Sewing should be fun as well as practical. Handwork can be done in leisure moments while you visit with the family or a neighbor, or enjoy a radio or television program. Once you get the habit of bundle sewing, you will find it useful to have several things to work on at once so that just the night sewing can be done while you enjoy some other activity in your day or evening. Pick up your hand sewing as you would pick up knitting or crocheting. It will surprise you how much you can accomplish this way. Adjust to Growth The problem of having clothes fit children properly when new, and still allow room for growth, is sometimes a difficult one. We feel it can best be solved by carefully concealed let-out areas. In little girls' dresses, extra length for later on may be supplied by laying a tuck on the inside just above the waistline for additional waist length and another tuck in the hem of the skirt for easy let-down. Such tucks can be put in with a long machine-basting stitch so that they are easy to remove. All straps on overalls and play Page 317 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Figure 1 suits should be made allowing several extra inches for growth. Buttons can be moved as added length is needed. In making clothes for children of all ages, it is important to sew them as carefully and firmly as possible. Spare no effort to make them durable, reinforcing points of strain. Always use backing for buttons and buttonholes as well as for pockets. Extra time spent in the making will help to keep them out of the mending basket. [N STRUCTION on_ techniques given in earlier lessons are applicable to all types of garments for both adults and children. We do, however, want to add suggestions for gathering and cording, both of which will be found helpful in making dresses for the young. Countless yards of material are gathered each year for children's dresses with varying degrees of success. It can be done easily and quickly with the correct method. To machine gather, adjust the machine stitch to eight stitches to the inch. For the upper thread use regular weight, but have heavier Figure 2 thread on the bobbin, so it will not break easily. Put in two rows of large machine stitching, having the first one on the seam line. (See Figure 1.) Use your presser foot as a gauge to keep rows even. When applying the gathered edge to a straight edge, divide both into segments at equal distances and mark with pins. Pin gathered edge to plain edge at centers of front and sides and midway between all around. Do not pull up gathers until they are pinned in place. Draw up gathers, pulling both threads at once. Fasten threads over last pin by means of several laps. Baste and sew between the two rows of stitching. Cording is an attractive and easy way to finish the waistline of small dresses. Use cable cord or heavy string of the desired thickness. 'To cover the cord, cut material on the true bias. Lay the cord in the fold and stitch close to the cord, using the machine cording foot (zipper foot). The strip should be cut wide enough to cover the cord, plus seam allowance. Insert the cord between the seams of the waist and skirt and stitch as close to the cord as possible. (See Figure 2.) ITlaggie Richards Wood Specializes in Mlaking Lace Sablecloths AGGIE Richards Wood, Fielding, Utah, has presented each of her five daughters and the three daughters-in-law with a beautiful lace tablecloth, a chair back set, and many other crocheted and tatted articles. During the past two years she has made fifty-two quilt tops, including eight in the wedding-ring pattern, two in the lovers' knot pattern, fourteen in the star pattern, and many appliqued quilts with original patterns. At a family party two years ago her forty-five grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren were present to see the quilt tops, and, as far as possible, were given the opportunity to make an individual choice of the lovely quilt tops displayed. She now has forty-six grandchildren and eleven great-grandchildren. Mrs. Wood has served the Church in many capacities, including Primary president, president of her ward Relief Society, theology class leader, and counselor in Relief Society. She has been a visiting teacher for many years. Homemaking, handwork, and Church service have made her life busy and beautiful. O~<—_- Old Fishermen Ethel Jacobson So sat the huddled forms around A storied sea; So shone the sun on fishermen Of Galilee, Where carefully the nets were spread On bare brown sands And mended with such stiff and scarred And patient hands. Page 319 The Silver Leash CHAPTER 5 Beatrice Rordame Parsons Synopsis: LaRue Harding, an orphan, who has lived since childhood in Callifornia with an aunt, goes to Fivelakes, Arizona, after the death of her sister, Amelia. She tries to help and encourage her brother-in-law Herbert Vetterly, who is confined to a wheel chair. His children gradually come to accept LaRue as a fricnd and as a member of the family. She meets Dr. Alan Rutherford, a surgeon at the Jonas Harding Hospital, and _ his fiancee Gladys Drew. "'Grandie,"' Dr. Rutherford's grandfather, who now owns old Fillhigh House, which was built by the Hardings, invites them to a picnic there. W ess LaRue had first suggested the cook-out at Hillhigh House, she had been doubtful of its success. But Erma and Joel — to say nothing about Connie — were so delighted and surprised by the prospect of their father accompanying them, that they could not do enough to help. Though he didn't speak of it, LaRue knew that Herb was still frightened by the thought of leaving the house in his chair. She knew his shyness at being seen by his friends and neighbors. She knew his courage in deciding to go! LaRue admired her brother-inlaw for that courage. She knew that his love for his children had overshadowed his fear. But she knew that deep inside he cringed at the thought of what he would have to face. The children, however, did not guess. 'They were glad, happy, too excited to look for hidden meanings in their father's actions. Page 320 Connie had written carefully printed notes on some flowered stationery she had found, and had sent them off to Dr. Alan, to Gladys, Grandie, Janice, and Bob. She had even sent one to Eddie Parrat and had propped one up outside of Atlast's little dog house. "I've been teaching him to behave when I put him on his leash," explained Connie dubiously, "but he's not very polite. He runs away all the time, dragging his leash behind him." As though she hated to criticize her little pet, she added hurriedly, "It's only because he's not used to a leash that he acts that way, Aunt LaRue." "Pm sure he'll be properly trained by the time we go to Hillhigh House," LaRue assured her, smilingly, but deep inside, she was not entirely sure that the little tan and white dog would take graciously to his collar and leash. "At least, darling, you can be sure he can't find any very naughty mischief to get into at Hillhigh House. There's plenty of space in which to run." Connie was comforted. She didn't give up trying, however, and when it was time to get ready, she carefully packed Atlast's leash. There were sundry other things that she and Janice packed in order to set up proper housekeeping for their dolls; and when they were ready, Joel clapped his hands to his head and guffawed loudly. "We look more like we're moving, than just going to a cook-out," THE SILVER LEASH he declared, surveying all the folding chairs, the table and grill, the picnic basket, and all the other things that they were to take along. "Tt's good that Dr. Alan is calling for Dad. What with his chair and everything." He caught a quick, sidelong glance of his father's face, and shouted at Eddie: "Grab something, man. Don't just stand there with your tongue hanging out, thinking about all that chicken." LaRue was relieved to see that in the bustle the boys made packing the back of the car, Herb's color had a chance to come back before Dr. Alan, with Gladys in the front seat and Grandie in the back, lifted Herb's chair into his car. LaRue, watching the shadows creep into Herb's face, grew worried. "Perhaps I shouldn't have... Yes forced Herb to come," she told herself fearfully. "If anything should happen.. But she turned that thought away as Joel shouted for her to hurry. HEY laughed and chatted and made fun of their two-car caravan as it advanced up the steep road to Hillhigh House. Joel got quite a laugh as he remembered something his father had said. "Stately carriages, and spirited horses were never like this!" he declared, giving Eddie a great thump against his shoulder. "Pll bet the clustered ghosts of long-gone Hardings are staring down at us with disapproval in their... Eyes?'' Everybody laughed, but Connie was worried. "There aren't any ghosts in the daytime, are there, Aunt LaRue?" She clutched at Janice's arm as she waited for an answer, and both small faces were pale. 321 "Of course not," cried Erma vehemently. 'Then with more gentleness: "If there are any Harding ghosts at Hillhigh House, they are all very nice ones. Grandie knew most of them, and he always tells such kind stories about them. I'm sure they were wonderful people." LaRue saw Bob Powers beaming at Erma, and she remembered how sharp Erma's reply might once have been to a_ thoughtless brother, frightening little girls with stories of ghosts. She's improving, LaRue told herself happily; and found that they had reached their goal. There were so many eager hands to help with the unpacking and getting settled, that there was more confusion than order, there under the old willow, on the brick patio. They arranged folding chairs, tables, the grill, and the special aluminum-and-nylon chaise lounge which Gladys had insisted on bringing for her very own benefit in the pool of shade cast by the great tree. Dr. Alan had made a huge chef's hat out of white paper. When he tipped it over his dark hair and waved his scepter — a long barbecue fork for turning the chicken — they all declared him "The Ruler of the Feast." Grandie was happy to be with Erma and Bob, strolling over the grounds, pointing out the old rock spring house, which had once served the Hardings and the Rutherfords as a natural refrigerator where round pans of milk had been set until they were golden with thick, sweet cream for the table. Janice and Connie made a fabulous playhouse with bits of white stone, and a carpet of dried leaves. Atlast, unconfined by his collar 322 and leash, thumped the dust, from what they had decided was the front porch, with his tail, until Connie spoke firmly about the trouble of housekeeping with a small dog. Then he curled his paws under him and dozed, keeping one ear well cocked to hear what his young mistress was up to. Joel and Eddie climbed ancient apple trees, but Herb sat in his wheelchair, tense, shaken by his journey to the old house. While Dr. Alan turned the chicken over the charcoal in the grill, Gladys lazed in her chaise lounge and pointed towards the activity taking place at Blue Lake. "They're getting ready for the celebration," she sighed contentedly, crossing slim, tanned legs in a pool of sunshine to add to their tan. "Why, they are assembling a regular mountain of steel and wood for the amusement part of the carnival." "There's the merry-go-round," cried Connie, turning Janice about so that she could see, too. "I just love those pink, green, and lavender horses! I think 'm going to ride them all!" Erma turned to Grandie and smiled. 'Will you ride the Ferris Wheel with Bob and me, Grandie?" HE old man slapped his knee and grinned: "I'll even pay for the tickets," he assured her teasingly. Joel and Eddie were disdainful of merry-go-rounds and Ferris wheels. "We're going to ride the rocket to the moon," said Joel, boastfully. "And the atomic blockbuster. And the satellite bomb." Everybody giggled. But LaRue's eyes were shining as she studied the tall, dark-haired boy who would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 soon be the man his father had once been. His head is full of wheels and wings, she thought eagerly. So is Eddie's. Boys of that age are mechanics. They need things to do with their hands. They will be flying those atomic-powered planes of the future. They'll be nding the earth satellites. She laughed aloud at her own wild imaginings. Glayds, lazily beautiful in a sleeveless raspberry-red frock, spoke scornfully. "You can have those things! Pll take the dancing. I'm going to buy a new Mexicali frock — blue, I think — with a cute little bodice with a V-neck." She looked to where LaRue was helping Dr. Alan fry the chicken, her dress protected with a big apron, and asked: "What will you wear, LaRue?" For all she had told Herb that she wanted to stay for the Festival, LaRue had not consciously made any plans. She remembered the dresses she had left hanging in the neat clothes closet back in San Francisco and wished she _ had brought something very special. But she shook her head a bit ruefully. "My yellow, I guess. It's not new, but it's the only nice thing I brought with me. Maybe it's a little plain for." "They wear anything, Aunt LaRue," said Erma quickly. "I'm sure your yellow will be all right." LaRue turned a piece of chicken, saying thoughtfully: "Pl wear it, if I go." Dr. Alan waved a chicken leg at the end of his barbecue fork. He wore a dish towel to protect his gray slacks, and his paper hat was rakishly tilted over his twinkling eyes. THE SILVER LEASH "Of course you're going. Even if Gladys and I have to drag you." "Dr. Alan Rutherford!" It was Grandie's voice rising indignantly. "Is that any way to invite a young lady to dance?" He gave his grandson a withering glance, and bowed formally to LaRue. "Miss Harding," he asked most politely, "may I have the pleasure of escorting you to the Founding Festival? Perhaps I'm not quite up to the jitterbug, but I'll be glad to try." LaRue's face was merry, her voice choked, but her acceptance was very formal. "T'd be honored, Grandie. Very, very honored. Thank you. We can sit out the jitterbug." Everybody laughed then and scrambled for their places as Dr. Alan announced that the chicken was ready. It was heaped on a large platter, crisp, golden brown, and it smelled so delicious that Atlast took up his place near Connie, where she could surreptitiously feed him on bits of skin. ORE than once during the meal, LaRue saw Herb's hand go out, offering Atlast a tidbit. 'They sat there, watching the workmen build peppermint-striped booths along the shores of Blue Lake. Other men were setting up frames for the fireworks on a small island. They ate until they could not hold another bite. 'Then they packed away the remains of the feast and followed Grandie for a tour of the old house. LaRue had never been inside, yet, somehow, she felt as if she belonged. It was very run-down, yet beautiful and gracious. Gladys walked ginger- 323 ly, fearing the floor might let her through, but Grandie laughed at the idea. "This house was built to last, Gladys." He led them up the curved staircase to the second floor. LeRue peeped into the dormerwindowed bedrooms where so many Hardings had slept. Then they went up a short staircase to the attic where some lovely old furniture was ranged against the rafters. LaRue watched Exrma's face as she and Bob walked about. The girl's hand went out to touch the old rosewood piano, and it gave off a sweet, mellowed tone. Erma's eyes were shining. "I wish I'd come here with Mother," she said softly. 'No wonder she loved these things. J can just see them in their proper place downstairs." LaRue could see them, too. But Gladys sniffed daintily. "I'll take modern," she said haughtily. "I don't care for old things." She drew her skirt out of danger from dust, and caught possessively at Dr. Alan's arm, as they all trooped down the stairs and back into the shadow of the willow tree. Almost shyly, Joel begged, "If you're not too tired, Grandie, would you show us the old car?" Grandie looked into Joel's face, and said brightly, "Not a bit tired." His eyes twinkled as he led the boys to the garage which had once been a carriage house. "We used to call 'em Tin Lizzies, but they got us there, and back!" They disappeared in the dusty garage. Gladys sighed and relaxed on the chaise lounge with Dr. Alan sitting cross-legged on the patio beside her. Herb's chair was nearby, and LaRue settled into a chair not 324 too far away. She remembered about Mrs. Lawson's baby. She asked Dr. Alan how things were coming along. "Fine," he said, but his dark eyes were somber, "but the little scamp seems determined to arrive a little early." They talked about babies for a moment, then Dr. Alan turned to Herb. "Have you made up your mind about going to the hospital? Dr. Frame and I feel sure that the new techniques in nerve operations." He was explaining them earnestly when Gladys moved restlessly and raised her voice. "Darling, must you always talk shop? We're having a holiday!" Dr. Alan's voice hung in the air in the middle of a word. LaRue saw the hot flush that mounted to his forehead. But he said: give me, Gladys. Sometimes I forget that the thought of operations makes you ill. [ll promise to remember." Gladys gave LaRue a wry little pout. "I can't stand the thought of of " She shivered, said bluntly: "I suppose I shouldn't want to marry a doctor. But after we're married, Alan can keep his office and his home separate." N embarrassed silence followed her words. LaRue knew that Alan was glad to see Joel racing towards them. Joel's face was alight with pleasure. He went straight to his father. ""That's some car, Dad! Grandie says it will be all nght if Eddie and I try to make it run." He hesitated. "T'm afraid my allowance." "Tl give you the money," said Grandie quickly. Joel shook his head. "I couldn't ""ForRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 take it." Then, as Grandie began to speak about loaning him the money, his head shook more vehemently than ever. "Dad doesn't approve of kids going into debt." Grandie considered, scratching his head. "Maybe you could work it out." He glanced about. "No wonder this house hasn't sold. If the lawns were cut, the shrubs trimmed." Joel and Eddie were grinning widely as they shook the old man's wrinkled hand. "It's a bargain!" Erma, standing at Bob's side, spoke experimentally: "Maybe I could fix things inside. A little soap and water would do wonders. Bob could do the ladder work...." Grandie was beaming. "Ill get a brand new FOR SALE sign." He gave his grandson a keen little glance. 'Now that that's settled, we might as well talk about that house Gladys wants to build in Maple Park." Dr. Alan interrupted quickly: "We haven't quite made up our minds. I realize that I could make a lot of money, if I had my own office. But the thought of that new children's wing keeps running through my mind, and." Before he could finish, Gladys said loudly: "Thanks, Grandie. I know exactly what I'd like the house to look like. I've been going over all the modern magazines. I even know where I'm going to place the furniture." Her words were so definite that Dr. Alan flushed again, paisfully. But Joel was shouting for Connie and Janice to pack their dolls. Everyone was relieved to have something to do. Connie and Janice ran eagerly (Continued on page 339) Magazine Honor Roll For 1958 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE General Board congratulates stake and ward, mission and branch Relief Society Magazine representatives, with their respective presidencies, for their sustained efforts in 1958, which resulted in an all-time high of 157,070 subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine. This is an increase of 6,182 over 1957. This large increase reflects earnest and zealous work on the part of Magazine representatives and an awareness on the part of Relief Society members of the worth of The Relief Society Magazine in their lives and the desire to have it in their homes to be read by their family members. Letters constantly come to the General Board in which young mothers state that their mothers always had the Magazine in their homes and how much it means to them now to have the Magazine in their own homes. With over 193,000 members of Relief Society, we find that the subscription number equals 81% of the membership. However, since many non-Relief Society members subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine, the percentage of Relief Society members is probably not that high. 'There is a great difference in the growth that can come to two Relief Society members living side by side who attend Relief Society meetings together where one reads and studies the Magazine contents and the other does not. There is a whole area of influence and knowledge which remains closed to the one sister. It is a closed book. Not only does she deprive herself of valuable knowledge, enjoyment, and growth, but she also deprives her family, for as a mother gains saving knowledge, the benefit is felt by her family in her enlightened attitude and the added information she imparts to them. There is a great responsibility attached to the calling of a Magazine representative to convert Latter-day Saint women to subscribe and read the Magazine. In addition to selling a year's subscription, the Magazine representative may continue her interest in the sister to see that she is receiving and enjoying the Magazine. With new subscribers, especially, she can inquire if they have read certain articles and show a continued sisterly interest. With all the means of instruction and entertainment offered today, a Latter-day Saint woman must be selective and Relief Society has the responsibility to point out the benefits to be found in The Relief Society Magazine, to bring an awareness that the entire contents reflect and are in harmony with the principles of the gospel. The Relief Society Magazine combines material on the varied aspects of the life of a Latter-day Saint woman as does Relief Society itself. As Relief Society is a unique organization in all the world, so the Relief Society Magazine is unique among magazines for women. As in the homes, so in stakes, certain patterns are set. In some stakes high goals of achievement are set and attained. 'The realization of Page 325 326 them becomes the pattern of the stake. 'This is attested by the fact that year after year many of the same stakes remain with the highest percentages. Some new stakes attain high goals from their beginnings. Others show remarkable gains and maintain their increased _percentages. 'The General Board watches the progress of the Magazine subscriptions in the stakes with keen interest, feeling that if members subscribe, read, and study the contents it is some indication of the progress and strength they and their beloved Relief Society are gaining. For the twelfth consecutive year South Los Angeles has the highest percentage—222%. South Gate Ward of South Los Angeles Stake again leads the wards and has a percentage of 323%. The Western States Mission leads the missions with 114%. The highest percentage of a mission district was achieved by the West North Dakota District of the West Central States Mission with a percentage of 127. Sidney Branch of the Scottsbluff District RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 of the Western States Mission achieved the high percentage of 220. Special commendation is extended to these organizations. In 1958, there were 72 stakes which had 100% or over, and 19 stakes in which all wards achieved 100% or over. 'There are 247 stakes on the honor roll which is an in- | crease of 27 over last year. 'There are 1,912 wards on the honor roll, an increase of 58 over last year. There are 16 missions on the honor roll and 538 branches. The General Board extends its warmest thanks and appreciation to every Magazine representative whose unselfish service has enriched the lives of her sisters. Magazine representatives will be blessed for their efforts, for The Relief Society Magazine may exert a great persuasive power for good with its readers and, through magnifying their callings, Magazine representatives have performed a service and been the means of bringing enlightenment into countless lives. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 222% Magazine Representative—Edna C. Stoutsenberger Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 323% Magazine Representative—Bertha Whitehead Mission Western States Mission—114% Mission Relief Society Magazine Representative—Daisy R. Romney Mission District West North Dakota District, West Central States Mission—127% Magazine Representative—Viola Willmore Mission Branch Sidney Branch—220% Scottsbluff District, Western States Mission Magazine Representative—Jean Goodell MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1958 327 Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles 2.22-2+2+----lseceseeeeceeeeeneees222 Edna C. Stoutsenberger Glendale 2 22cseecceeeceeeceeeeeeeeeennceesneenseeees182 Elsie Weber Burley -------cescceecceceeeeeeeeeeeseeeceenecenecceseseseeeaeens134 Virginia Nichols ReXDUIQ 2 22seeeeecceeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeceensceenseeeeeenaeens 131 Beth Moore InglewOod - 2 22-.2s.22s2seceeeeceeeneeceeteeeeeeeeeeeeeees130 Janet C. Medina Na 0) 6 ee124 Thyra Stoddard North Idaho Falls ~.00 eeteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeee123 Eva J. Wilkins Monterey Bay --2.---:: eescceececeeeeceeeeseeeeneeee122 Lena Millitt Oquitrh 2 eeeeeeeeeeeeecececeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeseeeeseeeeeeneees120 Earlean W. McGee Albuquerque / -..2.-2-02eeceeceeeeseseeeeeeeeeceeeseneeees 117 -Della S. Miller Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Western States - 22.. Eeccecccececeeeeeeeceeeneeeeees114 Daisy R. Romney Northwestern States 222..+:: ceeseceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees102 Effie K. Driggs Northern California 22 22..:22:: ce1seeeeeeeeeee101 Hazel S. Love Camadian - eeeececeeeeeeeceeeeceeeeeceeeeeeeeeceeeeesseeeee101 Leah H. Lewis Central States eeseeeeeceececeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 94..--Peggy B. Sears Califormia 2 2. Eseeeeeecee eee ee ce eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneees 93.--. Lela L. Udall West Central States 22..22. Ceeceeseeeeeeeeeeeeee gl Lucille R. Mills Eastern States 2---cccece-ceeeeeeeeeeeeceeeceeesceeeeeees 89 -Florence S. Jacobsen Great Lakes.00 2 2222ccccesceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeececeeeeenees 86 Vonda H. Christensen New England 0.0 2222..22ceecceecceeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 86 -Alberta S. Baker Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 2657 South Salt Lake 943 Glendale 1258 North Idaho Falls 938 North Davis 979 East Los Angeles 880 Ensign 947 % West Pocatello 880 Highland 946 Burley 860 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Eastern States 1061 Northern States 885 Central States 959 West Central States 846 Northwestern States 942 Southern States 720 Great Lakes 934 Western States 707 Central Atlantic 898 East Central States 692 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or over American Falls Enid W. Thornton Burley - ---+-+-Virginia Nichols East Long Beach Margaret Bryan East Sharon Edna M. Hansen Glendale -.-Elsie Weber Holladay Lucille B. Crowther Inglewood -Janet C. Medina Kansas City ---Venna 'T. Witbeck Monument Park Sara Stone North Davis Thora A. Martin Norwalk. --+--Lorraine T. Brewer Phoenix North Rose Openshaw Pocatello ---Verna Gridley Reseda 2-+++-Billie June Jube Seattle Laura C. Bronner Shelley -- --Merle Young So. Idaho Falls Violet K. Jaussi So. Los Angeles Edna C. Stoutsenberger South Salt Lake Hannah Dietrich 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 ITlission Percentages on donor Roll Western States Northwestern States Northern California Canadian Central States California South Los Angeles Glendale Burley Rexburg Inglewood New York North Idaho Falls Monterey Bay Oquitrh Albuquerque Long Beach Shelley San Joaquin St. Louis Holladay Cassia East Sharon Gridley Seattle Burbank Redondo San Diego East Long Beach Boise Norwalk Phoenix North Portland Covina Bear River Kansas City North Pocatello Monument Park Weber Heights Las Vegas South Idaho Falls Minidoka Pocatello Bountiful Idaho Falls American Falls South Salt Lake Provo Taylor South Box Elder 114 102 101 101 94 93 West Central States Eastern States Great Lakes New England Western Canadian North Central States Northern States Gulf States East Central States Central Atlantic Stakes by Percentages—1958 222 182 134 131 130 124 123 122 120 117 115 115 115 113 113 112 112 112 112 111 111 110 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 Reseda San Fernando North Davis Blackfoot Bonneville Uintah San Diego East San Francisco Santa Ana San Bernardino West Pocatello Highland Tacoma Woodruff Malad St. Joseph Calgary Rigby Mt. Graham Palo Alto East Phoenix Twin Falls Liberty Sugar House Union North Rexburg Wilford West Boise Raft River Pasadena Moapa Cincinnati Humboldt W eiser South Bear River Temple View Grant Nampa Monument Park West Juarez Yellowstone East Rigby Wells East Mesa 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 99 99 Los Angeles Santa Monica Columbia River West Utah Bountiful North East Millcreek Great Falls Portneuf Cache Emigration Grand Junction Kolob Sacramento Cottonwood Atlanta North Box Elder Sevier Olympus Bakersfield Granger Lake Mead North Jordan Oakland-Berkeley Ashley Wasatch Orlando Granite Franklin Ensign North Seattle North 'Tooele Santa Rosa Park Rose Park Lake View Young Idaho Mt. Rubidoux Orange County Valley View South Summit Reno Panguitch Hayward 84 83 79 77 76 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1958 Nyssa Bannock Washington East Provo Kanab Zion Park Mesa Phoenix Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Maricopa Mt. Jordan Sharon Ogden North Sevier Lethbridge Millcreek Taylorsville Big Horn Palmyra South Blackfoot Riverdale Juab Mt. Logan Tooele Star Valley Tucson University Springville St. George Yuma Nebo New Orleans Dallas Virginia San Luis St. Johns Butte Detroit Denver South Davis East Jordan Kearns Chicago Salt Lake South Ogden Cedar Q2 Q2 Q2 g2 gi gl gil gl gi gl gl Salmon River Spokane Uvada Willamette Alberta Benson Lehi Teton Parowan Roosevelt Blaine Oneida Timpanogos Montpelier Walnut Creck Millard East Cache Deseret Lost River Ben Lomond West Jordan El Paso Grand Coulee Pioneer Garfield Emery Fresno Gooding San Antonio North Weber Florida San Mateo North Carbon Bear Lake South Carolina Flagstaff Carbon Mt. Ogden Riverside East Los Angeles Wayne Beaver Davis Klamath San Juan Alpine Murray STAKES BY PERCENTAGES (Continued) Murray South Richland Logan North Sacramento San Luis Obispo Duchesne East Ogden Smithfield Utah Weber Snowflake North Sanpete Lorin Farr Bountiful South Hillside Santaquin-Tintic Orem West Summit Grantsville Midvale Farr West South Sanpete Missoula Gunnison Hyrum San Jose Morgan Houston Lewiston Lyman Orem Layton Nevada Canyon Rim South Sevier Honolulu Cannon Moroni Shreveport Kearns North Santa Barbara Oahu Brigham Young University * 329 Utah State University* *(Limited Participation ) Relief Society Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls Ashley Atlanta Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Bountiful Bountiful North Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary Carbon Cassia Cedar Chicago Cincinnati STAKES ON THE HONOR ROLL-1958 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 664 560 84 356 416 117 1059 816 77 384 3538 106 A70 447 95 3381 317 96 594 566 95 359 3380 92 518 405 79 496 584 108 510 895 77 567 462% 82 587 495 84 915 818 89 572 588 103 296 247 88 468 510 109 803 824 103 395 418 106 487 425 97 597 665 111 640 860 134 415 357 86 577 559 = 97 457 462 101 790 618 78 315 353 112 658 558 85 466 398 85 200 198 99 Magazine Representative Viola B. Wynder Della S. Miller Orale W. Scholes Enid W. Thornton Maryetta Wardle Pauline Gilbert Virginia C. Hodson Ida Sorenson Jean P. Budge Lottie R. Potter Beulah Wood Violet H. Cothrell Tess Christensen Christine Harvey Lucille Wareing Walnah E. Byington Effie Baxter Laura M. Brann Pearl M. Oldham Eunice H. Van Orden Maude S. McLatchie Virginia Nichols Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Vernetta Reed Gertrude W. Edwards Claudia Martin Venice W. Prince Florence G. Andrew Dorothy Campbell Relief Society Columbia River Cottonwood Covina Dallas Davis Denver Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mili Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Provo East Rigby East Sharon El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Garfield EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 676 659 97 444 427 96 755 816 108 266 230 86 893 691 77 946 813 86 746 611 82 393 38388 86 439 334% 76 731 601 82 558 477% 86 473 516 109 1185 880 78 777 759 98 357 3847 97 679 515 76 629 6382 100 576 528 92 596 588% 98 405 454 112 409 3883 81 739 598 80 486 469 97 1008 947% 94 A416 3820 77 441 850 79 786 743 95 540 4382 80 282 227% 81 Magazine Representative Mona H. Kirkham Mabel R. Baker Lucille C. Hales Opal Burch Sarah B. Strong Bernice H. Brown Leatha W. Bennett Myrtle M. Moffett Ora Holgate Ines B. Bergeson Vera Cowley Margaret Bryan Valerie C. Baisley Elva M. Brown Johann Hollingsworth Vivian Cantwell You "T 2109 Jane S. Watkins Dale Burtenshaw Edna M. Hansen Florence N. Pierce Dorthella Williams Adeline Jensen Anna W. Fox Ruth W. Palmer Gertie Mae Keller Phyllis W. Kingsford Martha B. Richards Lula Moore 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Relief Society Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granite Grant Great Falls Gridley Hayward Highland Holladay Humboldt Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kearns Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Las Vegas Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan Long Beach Los Angeles Lost River EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 692 1258 182 527 546 A18 534 652 867 314 531 522 931 551 202 All 701 574 506 100 469 315 291 467 514 339 759 7187 647 681 728 536 707 616 303 A19 443 403 508% 617 854 305 595 462 946 621 200 383 739 744% 448 98 429 339 249 361 495 323 710 841 543 611 728 A08%s 815 601 248 80 81 96 95 95 99 97 112 92 102 113 99 93 106 130 89 98 91 108 86 17 96 95 94 107 84 90 100 76 115 98 82 Magazine Representative Elsie Weber Hazel Pratt Amy Kent Josephine Prinster Leona C. Campbell Wilma D. Wetzel Eliza G. King Glenna MacDonald Lila M. Holdaway Agnes M. Nelson Ruby M. Blake Lucille B. Crowther Sarah Jordan Elizabeth L. Stevens Erma W. Boyce Janet C. Medina Alligee L. Anderson Fannie B. Hatch Effie L. Sorensen Venna T. Witbeck Helen Clayton Dorothy Davis Hilda W. Cherrington Magda W. Potter Glenda Thompson Lila H. Leavitt Rosa Ashton Thelma Derochie Ila Hatton Ruby W. Amussen Margaret P. Bodine Margaret M. Nelson Elaine Aikele Relief Society Malad Maricopa Mesa Millard Millcreek Minidoka Moapa Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park EnrollSubscriptions ment 539 657 899 611 645 622 294 276 739 377 Monument Park West 598 Mount Graham Mount Jordan Mount Logan Mount Ogden Mount Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Nebo New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele 615 882 698 638 682 A484 632 755 646 312 382 627 465 947 764 371 533 610 790 502 396 480 No. 546% 597 820 507 O77 663 291% 036 614 405 588 619 197 617% A497 635 373 4843 743 562 271 A472 5952 368 979 938 5532 573 609 602 ATA 356 453 Pet. 101 91 91 83 89 107 99 122 83 107 98 101 90 88 78 93 77 77 98 87 87 124 96 79 103 128 95 108 100 76 94 90 94 Magazine Representative Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Lola C. White Josephine M. Wadsworth Orel A. Greenig Idella Wilcox Era C. Jones Lena Millitt Lola McCammon Sara Stone Hazel S. Robison Cora B. Merrill Norene Greenwood Lola H. Gibbons Shirley E. Wade Hilda Peel Mabell A. Smith Beatrice M. Turner Ida N. Cafferty Leona 8S. Crouch Evelyn G. Tolbert Thyra Stoddard Etha John Parthenia H. Rhead Thora A. Martin Eva J. Wilkins Vonda L. Sharp Tura Hadley Ethel K. Archibald LaVee L. Smith Chelta D. Brown Rhea Mickelsen Mary M. McKellar MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1958 331 Relief Society North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Panguitch Park Parowan Pasadena Phoenix Phoenix North Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River Redondo Reno Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby STAKES ON THE HONOR ROLL—1958 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 646 513 79 O47 377% 109 449 418% 92 732 697 95 654 589 90 320 805 95 674 562 88 504 603 120 302 281 93 349 3381 95 663 592 89 400 402 101 464 427% 92 767 720 94 062 38038 84 738 7383 99 445 405 91 404 489 109 586 473 81 A94 524 106 670 727 109 454 440 97 473 497% 105 182 181 99 738 816 111 647 598 92 496 514 104 609 810 131 695 531 76 778 785 101 Magazine Representative Nellie Opheikens Lorraine T. Brewer Vonda Huntington Vera Weindorf Chloe F. Summerill Lydia Russell Mada M. Larsen Earlean W. McGee Lucille B. Peterson Ermaleta I. Reene Paulla Willes Agnes K. Schwarz Lora Gleave Pearl E. Rohde Mary L. Stubbs Vera Jean N. Jones Florence M. Broberg Rose Openshaw Rura J. Woodall Verna Gridley LaPreal Johnson Ada L. Parris Wasel Washburn Alice O. Neddo Clarice Rentmeister Pearl S. Robison Billie June Jube Beth Moore Beth H. Rowe Ruey A. Ball Relief Society Riverdale Riverside Roosevelt Rose Park Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Juan San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Monica Santa Rosa Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 588 477 89 782 607 78 528 441 84 661 620 94 527 507 96 884 770 87 455 3892 86 578 5854 101 145 164 113 198 168 85 813 694 85 245 195 80 649 661 102 567 622 110 488 500 103 599 621 104 496 508 102 605 695 115 655 506 77 487 420 86 193 147 76 456 362 79 387 895 102 854 8383 98 475 448 94 491 550 112 842 805 96 578 522 90 689 793 115 685 518 76 645 485 75 Magazine Representative Edith W. Stacy Bess Davis Katie Duncan Marjorie J. Peck Arvilla Sorensen Agnes S. Pickett Glenda Pulsipher Nira P. Lee Louise Varone Anna Young Frances L. Kooyman Gladys Bremer Valeen M. Jolley Betty Hancock Julia Jenkins Cleo Hupp Gertrude P. Terry Elizabeth Miller Anne B. Porter Opal McDaniel Clara J. Nelson Harriet S. Zeitschel Elvira Bollschweiler Jane Jamison Edna Harris Laura C. Bronner Louise B. Sampson Norma Dee Jameson Merle Young Maud Goodsell Adele H. Ballard 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Relief S South South South South South South South South South South Southern Arizona ociety Bear River Blackfoot Box Elder Carolina Davis Idaho Falls Los Angeles Ogden Salt Lake Summit Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Tucson Twin Falls Uintah 585 593 658 A9Q5 609 750 1197 404 901 A25 324 630 A72 526 710 883 654 660 285 770 496 738 458 A447 821 456 No. O77 529 688 389 522 801 2657 343 943 394 295 5732 400 460 626 883 665 693 255 759% A16 614 A05 394 825 468 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. Hy) 89 105 79 86 107 222 85 105 93 91 91 85 87 88 100 102 105 89 99 84 835 88 88 100 103 Magazine Representative Dorothy B. Kerr Agnes Cox Naomi P. Larkin Blanche Stuckey Gwen M. Horsley Violet K. Jaussi Edna C. Stoutsenberger Virginia P. Jensen Hannah Dietrich Susie D. Andrus Maud Post Virginia W. Gardner Pauline Bastian Donetta H. Anthon Dorothy L. Worthen Nellie J. Ehlers Nettie Blake Ruth S. Hovey Paula G. Wilson Mabel E. Snow Audrey Cordon Vera Matthews Jewel Halgren Belva Jones Hazel W. Stevens Stella Sadlier Relief Society Union University Utah Uvada Valley View Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Jordan West Pocatello West Utah Wilford Willamette Woodruff Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park EnrollSubscriptions ment 512 o61 544 302 AT5 330 531 723 668 321 777 387 510 864 542 989 No. Pet. 512% 100 498 88 All 76 256 = 85 442 98 285 86 409 107 505 = 99 845 98 540% 100 807 82 880 102 607 97 557 +100 A457 = 85 586 102 794 98 53838 93 242 87 355 = 91 Magazine Representative Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Bertha R. Memmott Vera Rowley Dorie N. Walton Cassandra L. Waddoups Barbara B. Green Leda Titus Mary E. Stimpson LaVird W. Balle Florence W. Wright Virgie P. Jensen Irene H. Winegar Edith H. Koelliker Myrtle B. Oborn Vivian Ray Tone G. Slaydon Edith Baum Amy Gerrard Mary Ann Lamoreaux Naomi B. Harris Ida Garrett Iva Sterling Effie J. Nowland Wealthy S. Heywood MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1958 333 334 Relief Society California Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States Mission East Central States Eastern States Great Lakes Gulf States New England North Central States Northern California Northern States Northwestern States West Central States Western Canadian Western States RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 MISSIONS ON THE HONOR ROLL—1958 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 466 434 93 627 632 101 1175 898 76 1024 959 94 895 692 77 1194 1061 89 1084 934 86 593 395 79 770 660 86 593. 497 84 55° 557 eae 1065 885 83 928 942 102 926 846 gl 653 559 86 618 707 114 a Magazine Representative Lela L. Udall Leah H. Lewis Lovell W. Smith Peggy B. Sears Marie C. Richards Florence S. Jacobsen Vonda H. Christensen Emma A. Hanks Alberta S. Baker Diana F. Child Hazel S. Love Vera C. Stratford Effie K. Driggs Lucille R. Mills Lila A. Arave Daisy R. Romney When Deserts Bloom in Arizona Ruth H. Chadwick The rains had come to bathe the desert land And soothe and quench the burning pangs of thirst. The cooling raindrops washed the barren sand And gave new life to dying things they nursed. Creation's need impelling confidence To bring forth flower and seed upon the stem. The white-belled yuccas raised their hooded heads While yellow-misted Palo Verde trees, Beside the plumes of ocotillo reds, Wafted desert sweetness on the breeze. Revived, the plants in grateful recompense Stirred the inner powers God gave to them— The rains again had triumphed over gloom; A glorious sight—the desert was in bloom! FROM THE FIELD Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES aA NRA atacand RS Photograph submitted by Mona H. Kirkham COLUMBIA RIVER STAKE (OREGON), PORTLAND SIXTH WARD, PRESENTS "SOME PURITAN WOMEN" FOR LITERATURE LESSON Left to right: Margaret Garlock, representing Mary Rowlandson; Elita Lind as Sarah Kemble Knight; Barbara Gilbert as Anne Hutchinson; Sharon Sims as Anne Bradstreet. Mona H. Kirkham, President, Columbia River Stake Relief Society, reports: "Costumes were made by the sisters, and the program was conducted by having the sisters interviewed so as to bring in their biographies, and then each one gave some of the poetry written by the Puritan woman she represented. We were happy to have Sharon Sims representing Anne Bradstreet. She was the model who posed for the painting of Anne Bradstreet which comes in the Brigham Young University literature packet for this year. Sharon is a convert to the Church and lives in our stake. She is active in Relief Society and was glad to wear her beautiful turquoise silk dress which was used in the original painting. The literature leader in the Sixth Ward is Lorraine Silcox, and the stake literature leader is Ruth S. Smith." Page 335 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 atte wabnitfied by Hazel S, Love NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, MENDOCINO DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE Front row, left to nght: Mission Relief Society President Agnes Mae Pace; Clara Wolfe; Jeanette Allen; Jean D. Porter; Hazel S. Love, President, Northern California Mission Relief Society; Katherine Davis; Grace Jones; Melba Scalmanini; Alma Grover. Second row, left to mght: Mildred Cloud; Phyllis Southwick; Donna Gardner; Lucy Shupe; LaVaun Kinderknecht; Esther Mason; Lenna Hill; Pearl Evans; Lee March. Third row, left to right: Anna Sundman; Eloise Lewis; Ida Middleton; Elsie Christensen; Almida Britton. Sister Love reports: '"This picture was taken at the last District Conference held in the Mendocino District. At this conference the Singing Mothers furnished all the music for the conference and, although this district is small, they did an outstanding job, and we were very proud of them." 5 P's 5 x wa atts Fehr taiclei dine deeon A Photograph submitted by Gwen J. Miner LOGAN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 23, 1958 Front row, left to right, in dark dresses: Mira Baker, violinist; Agusta Bailey, conductor; Alta Robinson, pianist; Virginia Rigby, organist. Second row, third from the left: Mildred Meikle, Second Counselor, Logan Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 Back row, seventeenth from the left: Lorna Bingham, Stake Secretary-Treasurer; eighteenth from the left: Gwen Miner, President, Logan Stake Relief Society. Sister Miner reports: '""This chorus, made up of ninety-seven members from the Singing Mothers groups from the wards, furnished music for both sessions of the Logan Stake Quarterly Conference, held November 23d. The chorus was directed by the stake Relief Society chorister Agusta Bailey, with stake organist Alta Robinson at the piano." z % 5 E Photograph submitted by Blanche S. George MILLARD STAKE (UTAH), FILLMORE SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING CLASS Left to right: Ilene Cooper, President; Lona Huntsman; Ulala Mace; Gladys Warner; Mae Davies; Hortense Peterson; Leona Rickenbach, First Counselor and instructor in sewing; Ireta Bartholomew. Absent when the picture was taken were Nellie Lambert, Laura Phelps, Judy Melville, and Beth Whatcott. Blanche S. George, President, Millard Stake Relief Society, reports: "The eight women pictured above are beaming with satisfaction after completion of a sewing course in the Fillmore Second Ward Relief Society. Classes started Monday morning, January 26th, 1959, and continued through the week, with some of the women finishing up that week. Sister Rickenbach, the instructor, gave much valuable assistance in mastering the basic steps in sewing that were incorporated into a new 'Sunday dress' which each woman completed. The women were so pleased with their handiwork that already they are talking about another class." 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Photograph submitted by tee Shimp SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RETIRING PRESIDENT ROSE B. ASTLE HONORED AT RECEPTION AFTER THIRTEEN YEARS OF LEADERSHIP Left to right: Rose B. Astle, retiring President; Laura Shimp, former First Counselor, now newly appointed President; Alta Davis, former Second Counselor, now First Counselor; Cula Magnussen, former Secretary-Treasurer, and now newly appointed Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Shimp reports: 'In honor of the thirteen years of outstanding and devoted leadership of Rose B. Astle, a delightful reception was held at the South Los Angeles Stake Center by the Relief Society Stake Board members. In the receiving line with Sister Astle were Laura Shimp, May Hodge (also a counselor for nine years); Alta Davis, and Dorothy Rasmussen. 'The motif was the rose; gorgeous bouquets graced the lounge. Refreshments were served to more than two hundred callers. A book of memories, called "Petals of the Past" was presented to Sister Astle by her last board members. Featured in the book were individual photos, each mounted on a rose, of the six counselors, two secretaries, and thirty-four board members, and sixty-cight ward presidents who served during the fruitful years that Sister Astle served as stake Relief Society president. Sister Astle has always been an ardent Church worker, always willing to go the extra mile. A sincere tribute for her untiring service was beautifully expressed by William Noble Waite, former stake president, under whom she served for many years." <> She Semple Winona F. Thomas The temple stands in glory on a hill Where its beneficence endows my soul With myriad blessings that I might fulfill My God-set mission and my self-set goal. The Silver Leash (Continued from page 324) about, Atlast barking at their heels. After a few minutes, Connie scolded him. "Nobody can pack with all that noise. Now I want you to be a good dog. I'm going to put on your leash." She slipped on _ his collar, fastened the leash and, as usual, he jerked it from her hands and went scampering across the patio. His leash tangled in the wheels of Herb's chair. The little dog was terrified to find it flying after him down the long slope. He ran faster in spite of Connie's cries. They watched in horror as the chair made its swift descent towards the busy highway. Gladys screamed shrilly and covered her eyes. It seemed eons before Joel, racing after the reeling chair, caught and stopped it. Atlast, free of the spinning wheels, returned penitently to Connie's side. LaRue found her face streaked with remorseful tears. 'Oh, Herb, it was my fault. I shouldn't have made you come. I." He quieted her with a gentle gesture as Connie flung her arms about his neck, crying: "Ah, Daddy, 'm so glad you're all right. I love you so much." She kissed him tenderly. Erma kissed him, too, shyly. Joel shook hands in a fine, grown up manner, which made his father's face glow with pride. He circled them in his arms. "T love you, too, my darlings." It was a simple statement, but it held more than words could express. He lifted his head and met Dr. Alan's eyes. "A few minutes ago ORGAN BOOKS for the Church Organist AT THE CONSOLE—Felton 2.00 CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton 2.50 an CHAPEL ORGANIST ---2.00 a CHURCH MUSIC FOR THE SMALLEST ORGAN—Nevin 1.50 DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM— To) |2.50 INSTRUMENTAL CHURCH SERVICE SELECTIONS— Vols. 1 & 2 ooeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeea. 1.25 NINETY THREE SHORT SOLOS 2.75 ee ORGAN MUSINGS W0000.222.2222. 1.50 ORGAN MELODIES—Landon 1.50 — ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper..2.75 ORGAN VISTAS ou ee eeeeeeeeeeel.50 ORGAN VOLUNTARIES— Vols. 1 & 2—Schreiner ea. 3.50 REED ORGAN PLAYER 1.00 a TWO STAFF ORGAN BOOK 1.00 Boa WARNER'S TWILIGHT INTERUse UD) he 1.50 Music Sent on Approval this advertisement as your order blank 15 E. Ist South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah e A> Z 1 t ( { Please send the music indicated above. |! LI] On Approval [] Charge [1] Money Enclosed! \ { ( ( | ame ddress ity & State 2.0 eee It ' 15 E. Ist South 45 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah Page 339 340 NORTHWESTERN TOURS Leave July Ist for Portland Centennial Tour via Columbia River Highway. Leave July 15th for Portland Centennial via Banff and Lake Louise, etc. HAWAII This beautiful tour leaves Salt Lake City, Utah, on Saturday, July 11, 1959. Fly via United Air Lines from Los Angeles. Visit all four Islands. HISTORIC TRAIN The original Historic Train leaves Friday evening, July 31, 1959, Salt Lake City, Utah, at 5:00 p. M. See Nauvoo, Carthage, Kirtland, Sharon, Vermont, etc., and witness the HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. Historic Bus leaves Salt August Ist. Lake City on For free folders write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Sal Lake City 2, Utah Phone DA 8-0303 Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Taned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 I would have given my life to walk. Pm no longer afraid. My children need me. Ill go to the hospital whenever you say." LaRue could feel Herb's love binding his children closer. She rememberd that Amelia had _ said that love could never die. Amelia's love lived within her children. Herb. Had found it again. He would never be lonely, alone. He was unafraid (To be continued) Springs Golden WVob Grace Ingles Frost Spring has woven a golden web And spread it over earth; It matters not which way I look, Of it, there is no dearth. All that was lost of loveliness, To winter's chill embrace, Is re-endowed with beauty By spring's effulgent grace. =< Sun in Bloom Eva Willes Wangsgaard Oh, do you know the Doronicum— The early daisy that holds the sun Of all the goldenness born of petal, Of summer sun, and precious metal, Its gleaming radii purest yellow? Uncertain air is bound to mellow, And every corner the daffodils Have left unsunned this daisy fills With radiant rising suns of gold 'Till spring is set in a sunny mold. ee ER, gigantic stage. A Spectacular Musical Play Based on the Mormon Battalion May 29, 30, June 1, 2, 3 BYU Stadium Adults $1.50 Children $1.00 On a stage nearly as long as the football field, this gigantic show will present top vocal and dramatic leads, supported by a cast of 700. Thrilling music is all original. Choreography by Eugene Loring. Sound by Dr. Harvey Fletcher. Get tickets from your bishop, stake president, or ward representative or write directly to: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Dr. Crawford Gates, composer, and Dr. Harold I. Hansen, director, study model of PROVO—UTAH } Hope to see Brigham Young University YOU 7 Leadership Week Workshops, lectures, and demonstrations especially designed to aid Relief Society Sisters R Theology Lesson Helps C Religion and Genealogy (Doctrine & Covenants) Classes R Social Science Lesson @ Bazaar Ideas Helps C Literature Lesson Helps C Helps for Home Life C Work Day Ideas C And many other features Clip and Mail nn Senile 2 me ee | Last Name First Middle l Home Address City State June 6-10, 1959 -"Stake or MissionYear of Birth $2.00 registration fee enclosed, payable to Provo, Utah | BYU Extension Services. HILL CUMORAH | R Se MING PAGEANT TOUR e DURABLE Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah, July 24, A.. ' ' sure way Of keeping alive the valuae a aye. Soe ie able instruction of each month's Relief fed hadi Chicago Boston, New vane tee Magazine M waren ban ee. Aes 4 ' ound cover. E Mountain ests firs ae MIRE i SCE eles Filey and the SONG and finest bindery and printing house is age show. Prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. NORTHWESTERN TOUR Mail or bring the editions you wish Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah, July 5th, bound to the Deseret News Press for the 1959. Including Banff, Lake Louise, Vanfinest of service. Couver, and Victoria. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany MESA VERDE all orders. Distance from Labor Day weekend tour. Pt hake City: Utah Rare p to miles, SEPMCHE DED Sey LOE, 150 to 300 miles 39 AIIAN TOU @ 200 to 1000 miles 34 to miles cm O° ——_— 19 & It aie ——— i i to MITCS nneeeceeeeeeeneee cent 0 Leaving in November. Over 1800 miles 37 For Itinerary write or phone: Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. ESTHER JAMES TOURS Deseret News Press Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone EMpire 4-258] Phone EM 3-5229 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 342 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-six Mrs. ELNorRA SORENSON HAMMOND Moreland, Idaho Ninety-four Mrs. JOSEPHINE DickERSON WEST Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Lena Guut McIntrosu Burlington, Wyoming Mrs. Harriet Leauw Axton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. JOSEPHINE BROWN SUGDEN Farmington, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Emity Lowry San Bernardino, California Ninety-one Mrs. Ovens PETERSON Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anna D. Parsons BROWN Nephi, Utah Mrs. ANNA BERLIN ANDERSON OLSEN Gridley, California Mrs. AnNnA LEFGREEN DAHLSTROM Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emizy J. Sippoway Vernal, Utah Ninety Mrs. Anna Larsen TONNESEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie LeicH Mace Salt Lake City, Utah EUROPE Special royal tours leaving in June and August. Economically yours. HAWAII Special deluxe tours leaving in April, June, or July. Vacation Hawaii — eight days, seven nights, transportation, hotel accommodations, sightseeing, only $275.00. SCENIC NORTHWESTERN TOUR Leaves June 27, 1959. Come join us on this wonderful vacation tour. HISTORICAL TOUR Leaves August 1, 1959, for the famous HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. DISNEYLAND TOUR Student tour to Disneyland on August 2d through August 8th. Includes other sightseeing in California. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS P. O. Box 20 Sugar House Station Salt Lake City, Utah Phone IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 Semp lo IVlarria ge Ann Barber Fletcher Who can say this love we share, Like winged bird, transcending sight, Ephemeral, like starry night, Will linger briefly, then take flight? He who lifts his hand and sows Looks to harvest what he grows! Death the end of everything? Of poets' words and songs to sing? Of laughing child; of swift embrace, And happiness upon the face? We planned for more than fettered wing, Or faded flower, or parting sting. Because we placed our trust in thee, We saw beyond mortality, And looked to span eternity! Page 343 WW TRAVEL @R TRAVEL R TRAVEL R TRAVEL R TRAVEL R TRAVEL @R TRAVEL R TRAVEL 44 TRAVEL @R TRAVEL HAWAII 8 or 16 fun-filled sun-filled days. Deluxe hotels. Meals. Sightseeing trips and cruises. Visit 4 islands, L. D. S. Temple. Enjoy native festivities and Island Lealea (Fun). Depart any time or travel with groups leaving regularly. $259-$639 EUROPE 48 days — 14 countries: England, Scotland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Holland, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Monaco, San Marino, Lichtenstein. (June and September departures.) AMERICAN HERITAGE TOUR Along the Mormon Trail — visit Liberty, Carthage, Nauvoo, Adamondi-Ahman, HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT, Niagara Falls, OttawaMontreal, Quebec, New England, Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Mt. Vernon and other Mormon and American Historic Locations, L. D. S. YOUTH TOUR EUROPE 30 days — 11 countries. All expense, fine hotels, balanced menus, visit L. D. S. Branches. Cultural and Educational Sightseeing, Supervised Fun, Physician accompanying Tour. Limited Accommodations, apply early. Departs June 1959, ROBBINS TOURS INTERNATIONAL Compare Itineraries Compare Prices then TRAVEL WITH US Box 1514 Salt Lake City, Utah Phone EL 9-0959 TRAVEL CR TRAVEL TSAVUL e@ THAVUL e@ THAVYL e THAVUL e THAVYUL e THAVUL e THAVUL e TSAVAL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! Ls |; New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah GET FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 1. FAMILY NIGHT FUN Shirley and Monroe Paxman This book abounds in games and "things to do" for family nights and for parties in the home that include friends of the family. This helpful book also points up the fact that families who play together have the rare opportunity of cementing family ties and of building wholesome attitudes toward life. 2.95 2. SEARCH and RESEARCH Noel C. Stevenson New and revised edition. Author of this valuable book on genealogical research lists each state in the United States with reference books, states officials under whose jurisdiction records are filed, and other sources such as wills, army registers, land rolls, etc., as well as sources in other countries where clues may be found for additional research. 2.99 Me eret Book Company | | 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money | rder ( ) I have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed | secees for encircled (numbered) books: | 2 IName ee ___ e.: Deseret | Address oo.. Iicccecccee cece ceececcececeeccececeenccccesseseneencces I cityee. Zone State | Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. vdeo, ow BR L~BL-194-23593 HOW TO MAKE YOUR LIFE INSURANCE MORE BENEFICIAL NOV 59 Career girls, married, single, or widowed, need insurance coverage. With more women working than ever before in history, this need becomes increasingly apparent. Yet often we think of insurance only in terms of the male members of the family. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. 5 Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah BEN I iw 1) Please send me more information on Career Opportunities Insurance. | Srsurance "fp our Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah The need for life insurance coverage is especially great where a widowed mother carries the added burdens of the family head. Beneficial has several plans that are especially well adapted to the needs of career girls. Ask your Beneficial agent to tell you more about them. 
