[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 43 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Beatrice E. Linford]

By Beatrice E. Linford A FEW years ago most people that I saw were older than A myself. Now it is quite different, so many I meet are younger than I am.
This can mean only one thing, I am growing older. To me that is about the most tragic statement I could make, because all my life I have had a horror of growing old. I think I have dreaded this more than any other thing with which I am confronted. I do not fear death, although I do not wish to die, now. However, I think I should much prefer death to a tragic, helpless, old-age period. I do not fear famine, war, rebellion or earthquake, but I do fear growing old. The first question that presents itself is, why does one fear old age with such intensity? It is perhaps because in looking around us we see so many elderly people who have lost their loveliness, their vigor, their strength, they have outlived their usefulness, and are now merely a burden upon their loved ones and associates.
While no one is blaming them, it is a sad condition.
Life is so lovely, so beautiful, and there are so many wonderful things in this world to do that one need never lack for something pleasant and interesting to keep him occupied.
Just try to imagine becoming at some time in life so tired and feeble that all this beauty by which we are surrounded would no longer be of interest to us. True, gray hairs and wrinkled cheeks are not necessarily the only signs of old age.
There are people I know whose hair is snowy white, yet their spirit is as full of happiness and interest as youth. How everyone admires the person who keeps young in spite of the gray hairs and the added weight of years. On the other hand, we find people who seem to be old when they are born.
They seem never to have anything youthful or cheery about them. To be around them is to be ever permeated with a spirit of gloom.
There is one woman in particular who has seemingly been just as old as she is now ever since I was a small child. She wears a woolen petticoat in the summer time for fear she will catch her death of cold, and she never ventures out without a fascinator or two to tie-around her head.
When the first snowfall appears, she hibernates for the winter and one never sees her except through a tiny crack in the door. She is mortally afraid of fresh air, Never does she forget a sorrow or grief. She never misses a funeral if she can possibly get to it. She never forgets the death of a loved one, nor will she ever let anyone else forget it. All her life she has enjoyed very poor health and each illness is minutely reviewed for the benefit of each unenlightened friend; then she continually bewails the fact that no one ever comes to visit her.
Thirty years ago she lost a child with pneumonia, she still weeps every time she recalls it. Her husband died, (happy release for him) and she has been weeping ever since, although he was paralyzed for months, and it was impossible for him to ever recover. To me this woman has always been old. If I had to live with her I myself would be old. 418
Fear old age as I may, I know it is inevitable, and I must face it. So I have tried to build a few rules for myself to prevent such a hasty old age, or at least that I might approach it sensibly. Let us consider together just what we can do about this problem of age.
What can we do to keep young or at least to grow old gracefully?
Health is one of the first requirements toward perennial youth, and one of the simplest rules toward health is to eat the proper foods. Let us not allow ourselves to become over corpulent, if it can possibly be avoided. If this does happen, watch the diet carefully, and reduce a few pounds. Our own Word of Wisdom is a pretty good rule to follow if one wishes to keep young, because proper living tends toward health and beauty.
Famous beauty experts are beginning to recognize the value of keeping the Word of Wisdom as taught by the "Mormons." Exercise, keep active; it is a serious thing to allow one's self to become stiff and inactive. If health permits, long walks should be taken daily in the open air. If you dance, continue to dance; if you skate or ski or swim, play golf, tennis, or like horse-back riding, keep on doing them; do not cease because you are a little older.
These things keep the muscles from growing flabby and old. It is a good plan to keep busy, to always have some interesting work to do. Of course, we all have our daily tasks, but we need a change from them or they become monotonous.
There are hundreds of interesting things to do outside of our daily routine, so many that space will not permit an enumeration of them all. A flower garden to dig in, with tender plants to care for and nourish into gorgeous blooms is a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE good suggestion. A vegetable garden is even a better suggestion.
Raising a garden of any kind is a splendid way to keep young, or to forget trouble. Let us join a cultural club, literary, flower garden, mother's, art, or any club where we will have something interesting to plan for and interesting people to cultivate.
Next we must take an interest in community affairs, the school, the church, the government of city, county, state, and nation. We must keep alert to events transpiring in the world. We must try to keep just ahead of our children, but if they succeed in getting ahead of us let's not allow them: to find it out. We should read a few minutes every day, fifteen minutes is what Dr.
Elliot prescribed. We must be sure to get this in even if it has to be done.
After retiring at night.
Reading helps to keep us alert. "As a man thinketh so is he!"
Other interesting things that might be done are, taking music lessons, or learning to paint, carve or model in clay. A class in applied art would be interesting, or learning to write, dance, or speak French.
Perhaps you think I am insane to make such suggestions as these to ageing people, but I have seen middle-aged women take dancing, and music lessons both, and make a success of them. We know that the old-fashioned idea that people grow too old to learn is all out of date.
Whatever we do we must not grow lazy and lose interest in our surroundings.
Having something to do worth doing and loving to do it is the greatest joy of life. For our next venture let's doll up a bit, change the style of our hairdress, part it in the middle or cut it. We might get a permanent wave, use a little rouge, lipstick and wear earrings. We should make our clothes GROWING OLD GRACEFULLY in the latest style and set them off with little bunches of gay flowers. Let's get us some nice perfume and manicure our nails, and it will be surprising how the years will suddenly drop away when ong begins to primp up a little.
Then after we are all dressed up, let's get our husbands to take us to the opera, to the dance, or to whatever is going on, and make up our minds to enjoy it.
Assocation with young people helps to keep one young. Attend Relief Society, Sunday School, or Mutual and be one with the class in their parties. | Partake of their youthful enthusiasm, joy, and spontaneity; laugh as they do, and grow young again as you guide them to beautiful maturity. The next prescription is to be happy. We should not let little things worry us and should learn to laugh away the big troubles. "When the day is gloomy sing some happy song"', are the words of a song which is certainly good advice to all who would keep youny. We should cultivate the habit of smiling at everyone we see.
Some modern beauty critics tell us that smiling causes wrinkles, but if it does, the wrinkles obtained through smiling will be turned up rather than down, and on the face rather than in the heart.
Whatever we do let's keep the wrinkles out of our heart, because after all is said and done old 419 age like real goodness cometh from within. The poet tells us that age is a quality of mind. AGE "Age is a quality of mind If you have left your dreams behind, If hope is cold, If you no longer look ahead, li your ambition fires are dead, Then you are old. "But if from life you take the best, And if in life you see the jest, If love you hold, No matter how the years roll by, No matter how the birthdays fly, You are not old."
Added to this we should strive to do some kind act every day or at least every opportunity that presents itself. We might send a tray of lunch to a sick neighbor or a freshly baked pie or a new loaf of bread to another. We can send a flower to a lonely old lady, call a friend on the telephone, send a birthday greeting to a loved one, or a cheery verse to one who is sad. We can speak kindly to someone who is unfortunate, and all these things will bring a deep content and satisfaction that makes for true happiness, and the truly happy are never old.
After all is said and done the only things we really keep in life are those we give away. So let us share our youth and happiness with everyone, ther will they truly be ours. GROWING OLD