[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 49 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Lella Marler]
By Lella Marler Hoggan "By the driven snow-white and the living blood-red Of my bars, and their heaven of stars overhead— By the symbol conjoined of them all, skyward cast, As I float from the steeple, or flap at the mast, Or droop o'er the sod where the long grasses nod,— My name is as old as the glory of God.... So I came by the name of Old Glory." Our forefathers pledged their —James Whitcomb Riley.* lives, their fortunes and their sacred honor to the cause of liberty and justice in the new world. It was a.
Solemn moment when they entered into that pact and affixed their names to that immortal document.
What courage and fortitude and strength of character that test must have demanded.
What a great undertaking it was for that little handful of God-fearing patriots to enter into the struggle that would redeem their pledge and would establish for us this glorious nation.
Only a soldier who has faced the battle front can realize the physical hardships and mental strain they must have endured. Had not Washington glimpsed the vision of triumphant freedom, in that crucial hour at Valley Forge, the high efforts of that heroic band might have ended in a broken dream. And again, when the fate of the nation was in the balance, Lincoln's spiritual insight restored the tottering structure of State. His message revealed to America the high standard of liberty that was becoming enshrouded in doubt and fear. The heart of democracy was touched by his plea, "that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom; and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth."
That call is re-echoing down the years to all true Americans today.
Will its clarion notes counteract the spirit of unrest that is abroad in the world? A LAWLESS element sweeps through the land.
Unprincipled men would fain overturn the ancient creeds, scrap the basic institutions of society, and tear to bits the sacred documents of law and order.
This insidious force is attempting to undermine the very foundation of the temple of liberty. But that holy structure is builded on a groundwork broad and deep. It is made of enduring stones of character and high purpose, cut by the hands of heroic patriots. Whole-souled sacrifice and prayerful humility entered into the construction of that divinely patterned sanctuary. It is built to stand against all of the 432 unholy designs and chaotic schemes of unscrupulous minds, providing that "we, the people," faithfully discharge the solemn obligations with which we, have been entrusted. IT is an essential part of our freedom, a solemn duty that we owe to our illustrious dead, that we shall take time to review their struggles and recall the great price that they paid for the privileges we now enjoy.
This grateful heritage has come to us so easily, without effort on our part, that we, perhaps, accept it somewhat thanklessly. We must remember that the American flag is more than a piece of painted linen. It cost long years of pain and sacrifice and sturdy endurance to place those stars and bars on that sacred banner. It is emblematic of the highest American idealism. It has come down to us unsullied.
Should we not make it our solemn obligation to revere and guard it, and to hold secure for generations yet unborn RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the spirit of liberty and freedom that it proclaims to the world? Representative America still clings to the faith of its fathers. Our medium of exchange still bears the inscription, "In God We Trust." A bulwark of strength continues to surround the sacred rights and institutions that the nation has so dearly purchased.
