[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: NOTES FROM THE FIELD]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Mission which was sponsored in the Logan Temple in May of this year. A ladies' chorus of Relief Society members sang the selections and the Relief Society Stake President spoke during the meeting. The Scriptural Project has been taken up with great enthusiasm and many of the members have completed the reading of the Bible and memorized the names of the books. In concluding her report Sister Cecelia D. Rutter, the Secretary, writes, "Each year we aim to make a change in reference to our program for Relief Society Conference. One year we took Theology as the subject, then Literature. 'This year we took Work and Business, and asked each ward to bring in the quilts SAN BERNARDINO WARD RELIEF or other articles that had been made, so that at the Stake Conference, held on Sunday evening, there was a beautiful display. The Conferences have been held and successfully carried out. The songs and talks all coincided with the theme, and the Spit of each Conference was beautitul. 449 "Tt is marvelous how well and how beautifully the sisters have cooperated in contributing toward the Church Security Program. Shelves and shelves of lovely fruit of every variety have been conserved, and twenty-six serviceable quilts made, men's and women's clothing of various kinds, and dozens of pairs of wearable shoes and household articles have been contributed through the Relief Society to the Security work, "Our chief aim has been asa Stake Board to cooperate with the Priesthood, and to the very best of our ability carry out the details and advice and timely instructions which the General Board have sent to us." SOCIETY: San Bernardino Stake FROM one of our younger Stakes the above picture is sent. We were very happy to have this from San Bernardino. This picture was taken at the recent celebration of the anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The script was written by Sister Roxana F. Hase in honor 450 of the seven General Presidents of the Relief Society. Those who impersonated the General Presidents were all either active or past presidents in Relief Society work. While some of our Stakes may. Be young in point of organization, they all have the spirit of Relief Society work, and we are most happy to hear from them.
Mission, and others write, 'We all feel that the Relief Society Magazine is indispensable to us. The wonderful material which it contains is of great help to us, and we want to tell you how much we appreciate it." Tongan Mission ROM far-away Tonga a very delightful letter came from Sister HAMILTON, MONTANA, RELIEF SOCIETY Northwestern States Mission HE office was very happy to receive the above picture from Sister Helen Jorgensen, Supervisor of the Mission Relief Societies. It is of the Hamilton Relief Society in the Montana District. According to reports from the Mission's office, this is one of the most enthusiastic organizations among the members. It is well organized and demonstrates upon all occasions a very fine spirit of cooperation. The activities and lesson program are successfully conducted. The picture was taken upon the occasion of their annual celebration for the Anniversary Day. This Evelyn H. Dunn. The picture on the opposite page is of the Haapai District. Sister Dunn has this to say of her organization: "The sisters are faithful in doing all that is asked of them, and I am sure they enjoy the work. We have just finished a very successful conference in each of the districts and the Relief Society sessions were enjoyed by all the Saints. "We experienced a bad hurricane in the Togatabu district in February, but no one was injured, The Saints seem to be able to have plenty of food, even though their crops were badly damaged. The work of the Relief Society, in helping the