[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Pioneer Conrey Bryson]
Such times were always occasions for me, as I listened to Brother and Sister Allen and their sons and daughters converse together.
Sometimes it was serious conversation, at other times it was full of humor, talk that caused a lot of merriment and fun; it was table talk of a very high order. I HAVE stated earlier in this article that she pioneered in three fields.
These fields were missionary work, social work, and the cause of women in social and political life. THE crowning work for her Church has been in the Relief Society. So diligently did she seek for knowledge in this field that she became a social worker of repute, sought for on county boards and on state committees. By every instinct of her being she was eminently fitted for this work.
Born of parents of large sympathy, the driving power of her soul was sympathy. She had INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN 'such great understanding' say many who knew her. 'She could go to the most rural community and put at ease the timid,' say others, 'bringing peace where there had been distress.' Always she saw what was lovely in a situation, and drew one's attention from the unlovely to the lovely. She was a sort of alchemist turning base metal into gold in a spiritual sense. Her success as Stake President of the Relief Society was in all probability due much more to the sympathy she aroused for those less fortunate in life than from any technique she made use of, although she sought and used the most progressive methods in her work. IT WAS the intellectual acumen blended with fine feeling and deep concern for others that was basic in her success both as an administrator and as a public speaker. She was effective as a speaker, but when she spoke she always warmed hearts and almost as often drew tears from the eyes of her listeners. MRS. ALLEN was connected with various circles of women: The Brigham Young University 405
Women, the Nelke Reading Club, The Yeasharah Club, which is an organization of lady missionaries, and the Alice Louise Reynolds Club, which she was prominent in bringing into being in 1932. She was four years the Chairman of the Central Committee; she was also a member of Chapter Two, of the Club known as the Alice Louise Reynolds Friendly Circle, all of Provo, and for some time she has been a member of the Friendship Circle of Salt Lake City. INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN, highly respected, deeply beloved, leaves behind a place that others cannot fill. As she moved about in the various circles with which she has been connected, her face glowed with the love her soul radiated, and the memory of her soul's glow will be a part of the wealth of all who ever knew her as long as there are those remaining who felt her handclasp and who knew her smile.
