[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 55 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Ethel Hueston]

By Ethel Hueston, Copyright 1935, Used by Special Permission of the Publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company."
Suggestions for Class Presentation 1.
Maps will add interest to this 461 and the following two lessons.
Road maps will do, if no others are available.
These maps could be marked as the party progresses up the river. 2.
Some one might be asked to make a brief report upon the Louisiana Purchase. 3.
Characterize the following by reading passages from the book or other books about them: Lewis, Clark, Sacagawea, Charbonneau, the Missouri River. 4. If there is a woman in the class who has known Indians well, it might be interesting to have her tell of experiences with them. 5.
Give an estimate of Ethel Hueston's ability at presenting places and people in an interesting manner.
Give examples of her insight by reading passages from the book. 6.
Other books which might be helpful, if available: Red Mother, by Frank B. Linderman; Dona Marina, by George Gardner, Improvement Era, Jan., 1933, Page 153; The Story of the Red Man, by Flora Warren Seymour; Tudor Publishing Co., New York. Social Service Lesson 1 INDEPENDENCE THROUGH COOPERATION Text: "Civic Sociology," by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XX. OPERATION is a very important aspect of social welfare. But the term itself implies a certain amount of personal curtailment in favor of group organization, while independence presupposes freedom.
Independence is one of the fundamental traits of human nature, therefore the spirit of cooperation cannot thrive in a democratic society unless it contributes to this trait.
Because it is difficult to understand how independence can be gained through personal sacrifice for mutual benefit, the ideal of cooperation is difficult to project upon the popular mind, and it is still more so to attain. But in the modern world all life is dependent for its actual existence upon the closely interwoven activities of society.
There is no part of the social fabric which is not contingent upon this condition.
Therefore cooperation is vital to life.
Naturally greater independence can be achieved through a recognition of this vital necessity than through its ignoring. 462
The relation of independence to cooperation makes an interesting study. Our text describes independence as a state of mind which has nothing to do with the fact that one happens to be employed. It is a feeling of satisfaction which arises from a state of well-being toward life.
Such a state is not fostered by the hatred which arises from an attempt to surpass others by means of selfish competition or to subdue them through the force of conflict.
Both conditions are negative and destructive to Independence because they destroy the feeling and the state of well-being if one is alive and sensitive to the welfare of others.
Neither contributes to the spirit of independence as described or to a cooperative society.
This lesson will attempt to show how cooperation contributes to independence, or freedom from strife. The following points will be developed: 1. The importance of cooperation in all of life's activities as a means to independence. 2. The means of developing the cooperative spirit in economic, spiritual, social, and intellectual life. The desire for independence exists in all people.
Many persons think of this quality only in relation to its political meaning; others regard it as a matter of economic life. But independence has numerous applications to life situations.
Among other standpoints it may be interpreted from an economic, spiritual, social, and intellectual point of view.
Independence in all of these phases is highly desirable, but since each is subject to different implications in the minds of different people, a general definition of each will be given here for the purpose of discussion, and their means of attainment will be indicated.
Economic independence is freedom from financial worry as achieved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE on the economic level that is commensurate with one's earning capacity. A state of comfortable economic independence was rather easy to attain in the early history of all American pioneering. It was achieved by a remarkably high percentage of colonizers and settlers in the agrarian state of society. Fathers, mothers, and children worked together as one for the common good of the family.
Industrial depressions, loss of foreign markets, and the changing of trade routes were not greatly feared because the economic comfort of a family did not depend upon them. The production of goods was essentially a family matter, or at most a community concern; and that family was happy which could see a supply of goods stored away in its cellar and granary for the needs of its present and near future.
Security was a family affair which rested largely upon personal initiative rather than upon group, national, or international relations.
This homely economy was conducive to the building of a stable character. It provided an outlet for the spirit of rugged individualism, and it developed many sterling qualities, among which was this cherished feeling of independence through self-sufficiency. But the population has undergone the great movement from rural to urban life.
Agriculture is now only one phase of life. Moreover, it is as closely related to the activities of organization as any other field of living.
Farmers are as much dependent upon cooperation in the science of soil-production as are members of densely populated centers dependent upon organization for their living. The former state of personal sufficiency has entirely given way in all walks of life to the necessity for group organization, division of labor, community of action, and harmony LESSON DEPARTMENT of national and international purposes. But the need for money is more keenly felt than ever before, because as individual production has decreased the necessity to buy has increased.
There is no commodity of daily life for which money has not been exchanged at one stage or another. In this cooperative scheme of production which now exists it seems that many give much in time and labor while others receive most of the profit. But it must be remembered that without the brain of organization the smallest paid employee could receive nothing; and also, that in the cooperative scheme of living the least important position is a vital cog in the scheme. But how does this condition of cooperation solve the problem of economic independence for the man of small means?
There is a double answer to that question. Firstly: All wages and income, great and small, are absolutely dependent upon the organization of society. Man curtails his independ- 'ence in order to gain more. But secondly, and of greater importance than this, is another kind of independence which it is well to point out: Insight into any man's life reveals the fact that the man of wealth is hardly less free from economic worry than the low-waged employee.
There is a philosophy to be gained from this: Economic independence is not a matter of the amount of money that one has to spend as much as it is a state of mind which frees one from worry.
There is a kind of beauty in life to which all men are entitled; it is often plentiful in humble dwellings and frequently lacking in mansions.
What one buys is actually of less importance than how one lives, and the feeling with which one spends.
Naturally freedom from debt is important to economic independ- 463 ence. But barring disaster, this state can be maintained on a small income.
Mass production makes it possible, for which we have to thank the cooperative scheme of life.
Independence can thus be gained?and also independence of mind can be gained if we remember that the lad who shines the traveller's windshield at a filling station is of no more and yet of no less importance to the scheme of things than is the man in the tire factory who stands all day long before a rubber press, and that neither he, the traveller, nor the lad could exist without the other, and that none of us could get along without the organizing head. We must also realize that the man at the head who is free from worry and is economically independent because he slaves us to the bone while he reaps the advantage is a myth?he does not exist.
Livings are made through cooperative enterprises.
Economic independence is a state of mind.
Because we can buy advantageously as a result of the cooperation which furthers mass production we can live on our incomes if we will.
There is happiness to be found on a very small scale of living; and happiness is independence.
Spiritual independence is no more a matter of standing alone in the interpretation of religion than is the problem of earning a living an individual question. But again there is a seeming contradiction to solve.
Spirituality is a personal matter; it pertains to the very core of each person's inmost nature. It springs from the inner life. But it must be remembered that without the organization of religion there would be no soil with which to nurture its growth.
Even the great prophets who have founded religions have been dependent upon a higher source than themselves.
They have looked to God, 464 and have received divine revelation and guidance.
Without spirituality no man can call himself an independent being? because he is a slave to fear and earthly convention. But the fact of death makes of man a solitary creature in at least one inexorable way of life; and there are other ways of aloneness to the thinking person. But the presence of spirituality in one's nature gives him communion with higher forces which ease the lonely heart and foster independence because of the feeling of sufficiency which he gains from a sense of harmony with the universe.
Therefore personal sacrifice for the benefit of religious organizations should be counted a great blessing because of the good that one receives from belonging to such cooperative spiritual organizations, and because of the good that one can do for others. Truly, religious organizations are a matter of giving and receiving. The principles of our own gospel are guides to living in accordance to the precepts of the Great Master and our own religious law. By living in harmony with the constituted authorities of the Church and their subordinates who devote themselves to the plans and work of the authorities one gains an understanding of Christianity and Mormonism.
Such understanding leads to spiritual independence through the growth of religious knowledge and a testimony of its truth. No finer example of cooperation can be found than that of two missionaries who represent opposite interests in life and yet who work with one heart and mind while they are engaged in teaching the gospel.
When life is so lived a veritable testimony of the truth results which gives to each possessor a feeling of spiritual independence.
Social cooperation is the development of community or national unity of interest towards which great numbers of people are willing to work.
This kind of cooperation leads to personal independence because an altruistic effort which furthers the interests of all people fosters an awareness of the common interests of life; and by giving of one's self in devotion to the great social causes, independence is created through the knowledge of having done one's part as well as from the benefits that are reaped through the combined action of cooperative effort.
Such an effort should result in social betterment.
There is no question that the general health level of a whole nation is raised after a united effort has been made to eradicate such communicable diseases as tuberculosis, diphtheria, typhoid fever, small pox, etc. The degree of independence which man gains as a whole is measured by the degree of unity which is attained in the struggle to free humanity from a scourge.
Thus both personal and national independence is gained through social cooperation.
Intellectual independence is a highly desirable attainment. It develops confidence and self assurance in the pursuit of one's life goals. It fosters leadership among men, and through leadership society is organized to cultivate intelligence among the great masses of people. In helping the masses to gain a degree of intellectual maturity their contribution to the welfare of society is proportionately increased.
Research laboratories bring forth hidden truths of science through cooperative effort.
Universities impart knowledge and seek to develop desirable social patterns of life. But neither research laboratories nor universities could exist without the cooperative support of tax-payers, beneficent men of wealth, and community support. The people of the world are truly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in need of a greater spirit of cooperation in all of life's activities. Industrial, social, intellectual, and even religious life can reach far higher degrees of success when contributing parties actively cooperate for the mutual good of all. It is only through conscious cooperation in all life purposes that the greatest degree of independence may be possible to each individual. Activities 1.
Study some of the conflicts of interest to your community, and en- 465 deavor to work out some form of cooperation which would unite the contending parties.
Would your solution bring a greater spirit of independence to each side of the controversy? 2. It is said that social progress is measured in part by the discovery of new forms of cooperation.
Discuss the statement and illustrate your point of view with local examples. 3.
Point out the part which cooperation has played in building up the prestige which the National Woman's Relief Society now enjoys.