[Vol24 | July 1937 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Udall The Great Divide]

UDALL THE GREAT DIVIDE
By Bertha A. Kleinman In Memoriam for Sister Eliza L. S. Udall Sister Eliza L. S. Udall was noted for her pioneering activities in Arizona, for her kindness to the Mexicans and for her hospitality. Most of the Church leaders have been entertained by her and her husband who for so many. Years presided over the St. John's Stake. She served for thirty-five years as Relief Society President of that Stake. She was the first matron of the Mesa Temple.—Editor. The day is done and through the Sunset Gates Another bark glides swiftly out to sea, In prime and loveliness the flower fades And darkness shuts the brave eyes tenderly. ELIZA L. S, UDALL 445
But yesterday so gladsome and alive, With kindly word and smile and cheer for all— Her day replete—why need she linger on? The day is done, she heeds the Master's Call. We cannot know the meaning of it all, Why some must go and some of us remain, Except that she so treasured and beloved Is needed, too, and loved in God's Domain. We cannot know the meaning of the storm Why bough and branch must bow before the blast, But this we know—the rugged cliffs take form And stand serene when every storm is past. And this we know and this we cannot doubt That, somewhere in the glory of His scheme, No pang is wasted and no heartache lost, Nor tears unheeded in His blest regime.
Beyond the mystic "Parting of the ways" Her lovely soul has taken wings and gone, And unto us is left the lonely days, The span of waiting and the carry-on. Somewhere God yearns for spotless souls like hers To grace the beauty of His Gardens there, Where none of all the millions of the earth Can fill the place He calls for her to share. A little ways, a little time to wait, Then in the dawn beyond the Great Divide Her loved ones too shall follow where she leads And all within His Love be satisfied. APPRAISAL By Alberta H. Christensen I shall not care what they at last may say Who caught my voice, in passing touched my hand.
They merely glimpsed an hour of the way Of years; how could they ever understand The integer, who only chanced upon The fraction imprint in the leeward snow? And they who saw my lip in smile attired,— How could they know 'twas not a guise I wore, Shielding with pride some cankerous hurt I bore?
What could they know—who saw me stumbling, fall— Of granite heights to which my step aspired? But you—who long have known my every mood— Your weighing flawless, and your verdict true—, Oh I shall never care what they may say; Only beloved, what can be said by you. Notes To The Field Theology Department "Theology is ordered knowledge, representing in the intellect what religion represents in the heart and life of man." THE ministry of the Savior will be the continued subject for 1937-38. The truths embraced therein will undoubtedly be studied with interest and zeal, for in the past year an increase in attendance, and satisfactory progress in the study of the scriptures has been noted. The attention of the class leaders is called to the paragraph preceding lesson 1 in regard to listed references. The Latter-day Saint scriptures (those starred,) together with the lessons themselves afford sufficient material and proof of all statements made, and unless the other books are not easily available, as stated, it is not necessary to acquire them. As believers in the divinity of the mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, it is a satisfaction to have the light of knowledge through revelation of the word of the Lord on these subjects—the time of the Savior's birth, The miracle of His birth, The place of His baptism and His divine power; questions so much discussed and pondered over by the learned theologians of the world without agreement or positive answer. The Doctrine and Covenants, which is direct revelation and the Book of Mormon, translated through the power of God, give definite and clear statements on these matters and will certainly tend to strengthen the testimonies which will follow the discussion of the lesson.
There is no reading in all literature that so enriches the mind and understanding and at the same time yields such a field for thought and conjecture as the scriptures; almost every verse is a poem, every episode a drama and all combined an inspiration for the higher and truer attainments of life. May this year's work be a joy and development to the souls of all our members, and a strengthening of their faith and testimonies. Literary Department IT has been suggested that Pale Moon and The Indian Love Call would be very delightful musical numbers to be used during the study of The Star of the West. The following is a quotation from a letter of Mrs. Ethel Hueston, the author of The Star of the West. It is an interesting side light on the book, which gives one the feeling of reading real history in the delightful narrative. "The Library of Congress loaned me copies of the Original Journals of Lewis and Clark, and I carried them with me on a motor trip following their trail from St. Louis, up the Missouri River and across the mountains to the Pacific, visiting as many of their points of interest as could be located. I can assure you that my account is entirely authentic, using their daily diaries as a base.
When the weather is mentioned, the weather is as they recorded it. My account was really a novelized version of their journals, instead of an historical romance. I introduced not one fictional character. I only supplied detail and conversation, but every incident recorded was included in their journals; in brief, terse form of course. "One thing that was clearly indi- NOTES TO THE FIELD cated in their Journals seems to me should be particularly stressed to young students; the effect of discipline. You will observe that all the infractions of rules and orders occurred in that first year, between St.
Louis and Mandan.
There was disobedience, absence without leave, desertion, theft, incipient rebellions.
Every case was dealt with, by a committee of the men; sentences were agreed upon, and justice administered. And the discipline proved its point; after Mandan there was not one other case of trouble with the men.
Rules were established, and they were obeyed. The men were loyal, obedient, and zealous; the leaders were careful, considerate and just." SOCIAL SERVICE DEPT. A CALL to arms is heralded to the members of the Church. "Church-wide Beautification of our Places of Worship."
Here is another opportunity for the application of our social service Lessons in Civic Sociology. The keynote of success in this project is loyal cooperation of every member of the family.
That the Relief Societies have long since been standard bearers and pace setters in the beautification program is evidenced by the lovely rooms you have furnished in your various wards. Many Relief Society rooms are covered with carpet, the walls and woodwork decorated in appropriate colors, harmonious 447 drapes and suitable furniture give an atmosphere of peace and rest to all who enter your rooms. The hours of unselfish though weary toil are forgotten in the pride and heartfelt satisfaction you feel when you see what you have accomplished.
That you will not fail to cooperate in every way possible to extend your improvement program to every nook and corner of your Church inside and to the grounds surrounding it is self evident, because you have never failed in loyally supporting any movement for the beautification of our Church.
Among the many needs of the Church is efficient janitorial service, care of sacrament service, improved sanitation, screened windows, comfortable seating, carpeted isles or entire floors, pride in class rooms, more trees, shrubs and flowers, walks, and fences.
When the bishop calls for your suggestions concerning these problems we hope this little message will have given you an opportunity to have been thinking about the matter and find you well prepared to help where you are most needed. ERRATUM IN publishing the prices of the books for our Literary course next year on page 395 of the June issue a line was dropped. By turning to the advertising section in the front of the book the Deseret Book Company gives the correct price list. Notes From The Field Julia A, F, Lund—General Secretary Malad Stake. FROM the Malad Stake comes the following comprehensive report of the activities of 1936-37. We certainly congratulate Sister Nellie K. Dredge, the President. It is difficult to see a phase of activity which this enterprising Stake has not conducted. In August of 1936 the Stake Board sponsored a pre-school clinic. The cooperation of the doctors and dentists with Relief Society was most complete. The mothers of the community had been brought to realize the importance of having the children examined and the corrective work done. The class leaders' and visiting teachers' convention held in September was a most successful event. The following is a copy of the material on the card which was given to each visiting teacher: "To be dependable. To make prayerful preparation of my work. To deliver my message. To speak no ill.. To be a mother in my district. To live worthy of my calling. To attend all my Relief Society and Visiting Teachers' meetings. To take sunshine into the homes I visit. To look for something beautiful in every home. To have tact and kindliness above all else.
Seek self-development daily, through the spirit of God, in exercising all spiritual and material resources." In September also the Relief Society joined with the Y. W. M. I. A. In conducting a county fair and a most beautiful flower show. The sisters from the entire Stake brought flowers of different kinds. The event was most successful. In December the Stake Board prepared lunch and program and went to the Washakie Ward, where a very fine social was held with the Lamanite sisters.
These sisters took part in the program of songs and games and in every way indicated their ability to cooperate in Relief Society work. The theme "Why we have a