[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | March | Issue: 17 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	NO doubt the readers of our precious lit-
tle paper think some apology necessary for
the delay in the delivery, and we think so
too, although we feel sure that all interested
in the success of the EXPONENT, and the
women of Utah generally would excuse the
remissness if they could be definitely in-
formed of the circumstances that have
caused it. Patience good friends for a short
time with the difficulties and embarrass-
ments, and excuse shortcomings that are
unavoidable as you would wish your friends
to excuse you, were you in a like or similar
dilemma. When you come to Conference
call at the Office and we trust all may be sat-
isfactorily explained.
	WE must again ask pardon for omitting
the chapter of the story "In Rural
England." There are so many home topics
to be discussed just now that the space is
almost entirely given to such matters, and
the World's Fair topics which are of particu-
lar importance at present. We have also on
hand notices of meetings and reports that
we hope to publish soon; several obituaries
that are waiting in the editor's desk; but the
people who have sent them will, we hope,
consider that we can only use a limited
amount of space for certain things as there
are so many subjects; and it is very desirable
to keep a record of woman's work in the
Relief Society and other organizations for
benefit, helpfulness, advancement &c. In-
deed had it not been for the EXPONENT, to
which we can refer on many matters that
concern women, we could scarcely have ac-
complished what has been done for the
World's Fair; and for this and other good
and sufficient reasons, the sisters, who are
laboring in various departments of work
and in the societies and associations, should
not only help to sustain the paper by sub-
scription but should preserve the papers so
as to have them for reference.
	WE are quite sure that our readers will
be interested in knowing that our sisters of
the Relief Society organized upon the Sand-
wich Islands have, under the direction of
their very clever and energetic President
Mrs. Libbie Noall, made a handsome and
rather expensive gift to the Salt Lake Tem-
ple. The contribution consists of one
hundred and sixty hand made bamboo fans
and two white feather Kahili's, the work of
the native sisters exclusively. "The
Kahili's anciently were made from the
feathers of birds held sacred by the Hawaiians
and were forbidden to be used outside the
Royal family, and only very recently have
they consented for other kingdoms to pur-
chase them even at the exorbitant price of
fifteen hundred dollars each. We shall have
 more to say of these articles hereafter. It
is certainly a valuable present and some-
thing quite unique. On account of the
recent troubles in the Hawaiian kingdom
there will be no exhibit of the natives' work
or curiosities at the Columbian Exposition
in Chicago.


