[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | March | Issue: 17 | Title: THE SALT LAKE TEMPLE. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

﻿THE SALT LAKE TEMPLE.

	THERE has never been a time in the
history of this Church when all the Latter-
day Saints were looking forward to one
particular event with greater interest and
perhaps enthusiasm, than they are at present
to the dedication of the Temple which has
been built here in the valley of the Great
Salt Lake. No Temple in this generation
has been so mnch talked of and dwelt upon,
its beauty, its splendor, its magnificence, its
grandeur and the objects for which it has
been erected with such carefulness thought
and diligence, these themes have been dis-
cussed, commented upon and written about
in the Stakes of Zion here and abroad in
other lands wherever the Saints dwell, or
the Gospel has been preached.
	The people have given willingly and
liberally of their means, not only those who
had abundance but those who had little,and
have rejoiced in giving for such a grand and
noble purpose as the erection of the House
of the Lord. The “widow’s mite” and the
children’s nickels have been as welcome
and acceptable as the hundreds and thous-
ands from the coffers of the rich. It has
taken time, patience and ability guided by
the spirit of revelation to accomplish this
stupendous work. The faith of the Saints
has been centered upon this work to a very
great extent for years past; their prayers
have been offered up to their Father in
heaven that He would open up the way,
would bless and increase the means donated,
that there might be a house suitable,
dedicated and consecrated for the great work
of redemption for the dead and the salvation
of the living. The house of the Lord
built in the tops of the mountains, spoken
of by the prophets of ancient times. In
this house and in such holy places con-
secrated to sacred ordinances and holy pur-
poses it is anticipated the spirit and power
of God will be made manifest in a greater
degree than elsewhere. The Lord will

[Column 2]
pour out blessings upon the faithful accord-
ing to their faith and their needs, and the
Saints are in many instances preparing
themselves to receive the promised bless-
ings. It is a day to be looked forward to
with joy and rejoicing. When the cap-stone
was laid the people covenanted to do cer-
tain things and in fulfillment of these
promises, the Lord has helped them, and
means and money has come, often from un-
looked for sources, and everything has
prospered to the accomplishment of what
was desired, tho’ at the time it looked much
more difficult to do, except to those who
had implicit faith.
	The April Conference is so near now, the
time set for the dedication, that the Saints
are beginning to ask themselves whether
they are worthy of entering therein, and to
inquire into their own hearts and lives and
it seems that a general awakening is mani-
fest; and this is certainly commendable and
will be a part of the duty of every Latter-
day Saint to be humble, forgiving and
penitent, putting aside ill-feeling and selfish-
ness, and seeking to subdue every unworthy
motive and purpose and conform to the
golden rule, “Whatsoever ye would that
men should do unto you, do ye even so to
them.” Charity for others and that love
that passeth all else should be and abound
in the hearts and homes of the Saints at all
times, but particularly when about entering
into holy places should the Saints take rare
that their is no hardness in their hearts no
influence to hinder the outpouring of the
spirit of God.
	This dedication of the Salt Lake Temple
seems the greatest event in the history of
the Church, and will undoubtedly make
an epoch such as has not yet been recorded,
for not only are tens of thousands of the
saints awaiting it with anxiety, expectancy
and sublime faith, but those who have pass-
ed to the other side, are also looking for-
ward to the consummation of the work,
and the commencement of another phase of
the Gospel work, for the millions who are to
be blest through the faithfulness and active
exertions of those who have the privilege
of officiating in holy places.
	The work of redemption is constantly
going forward already there are three
Temples in which the Saints have been per-
mitted to labor, and the work multiplies and,
ncreases more and more, and many more
Temples will be needed and the people will
be inspired to build them as they have been
those that are already completed. The
earth is full of material adapted for these
uses, and the Lord in his own due time
brings to pass His purposes, often in ways
of which man has not dreamed.
	The greatest day that Israel has yet seen
will probably be when the dedication of the
Temple takes place. Can any one who was
present at the ceremonies of the laying of
the cap-stone ever forget the spirit and pow-
er of that occasion, the glory that rested
like a halo upon that vast assembly and the
hosannas that ascended from the assembled
throng. That was truly a gathering of
many nations, kindred, tongues and people;
and now the Saints are on the eve of anoth-
er greater and more important event and it
calls for the united faith, devotion, reverence
and thanksgiving to God, that He may ac-
cept the offering not only of the sacred
edifice erected to his name, but manifest his
approval of their humble and united efforts
to serve Him through obedience to his com-
mandments.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


