[Vol21 | June 1934 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Joseph Smith]

Joseph Smith By James L. Barker
IN the issues of the Intermountain Catholic from July 21 to September 8, 1933, there appeared an article under the heading, "The Election and Grant of Authority to Bishops," by Monsignor D. G. Hunt. This article comments on an article, "Joseph Smith, Genius or Prophet," that appeared in the October and November issues of the Relief Society Magazine, 1930.*
Summary of the October and November Relief Society Magazine articles. The article in the October Relief Society Magazine maintains that Joseph Smith was a prophet, because he "organized a church"; "the strength is unprecedented and humanly inexplicable." In support of the fact that the organization is humanly inexplicable, the article explains the ideas of church government prevailing in the historic churches at the time of the institution of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—the idea of authority being dominant in the Catholic Church and the idea of individual liberty in the Lutheran Church. It likewise gives the theories of various churches relative to the highest officers in the Primitive Church, together with a brief sketch of the development and growth of authority in the Catholic Church; and points out that, in the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Catholic idea of authority and the Lutheran idea of individual liberty are reconciled and harmonized. It attempts also to show that the organization of the L. D. S. Church "is helpful in understanding the historical origin of the systems existing in 1830 when Joseph Smith began the work of organizing the Church" and that many statements insufficiently understood concerning officers of the Primitive Church are made clear by the latter-day organization. All this together with the "exact correspondence of the organization of the latter-day church and the organization of the Primitive Church can hardly be due to chance, and it would be due to chance if the organization were his (Joseph Smith's) invention." If the organization cannot be due to Joseph Smith's scholarship or to the scholarship of those about him, it must be due to the fact that it was given to him by revelation, as he claimed.
Monsignor Hunt has not yet commented on this article, but "because of greater interest" has commented on the November article first. In the November article of the Relief Society Magazine it is shown that, as a machine for the realization of the purposes of a church, the L. D. S. Church is superior to the historical churches in existence in 1830; that the necessary, but contradictory, principles of authority (in the Catholic Church) and of individual liberty (in the Lutheran Church) were "reconciled in the Primitive Church;" and that they are reconciled and harmonized in the actual government of the latter-day Church. Christ calls prophets and confers His priesthood, nevertheless, in recognition of the principle of free will, he leaves with the people the choice as to whether that priesthood (including the administrative authority of the priesthood) shall be exercised over them or not.
Monsignor Hunt comments: "Professor Barker gives his principal attention to church authority. He attempts to point out errors in the Catholic Church and Protestant Churches concerning both the grant of authority to officials, and the exercise of authority by officials." The article points out the historical development of the ideas of authority and individual liberty in church government and, if "errors in the Catholic Church and Protestant Churches" are pointed out, it is entirely incidental while showing that Joseph Smith restored the constitution of the Primitive Church.
Monsignor Hunt says: "Professor Barker's primary thesis seems to be this: Authority in church government rests with the people. He does not state this conclusion explicitly. Rather, he states it implicitly in his contention that no church official can exercise the authority of his office until his appointment, which is made by already existing officials, is ratified by the people. * * * A secondary thesis is this: Teaching authority in the Church rests finally with the people, who may check, correct, and change the doctrinal definitions of their officials." Neither of these propositions is defended in the Relief Society Magazine article. Monsignor Hunt states that the first proposition is not stated "explicitly" but "implicitly." Quite contrary to his summary, the article says "explicitly": "If no one had accepted him Jesus would have been the Son of God. Had he been rejected by all, Peter would have possessed the authority bestowed upon him by Jesus and would have been the chief of all the apostles and a prophet;" further: "Christ called the Apostles, the people did not call them, and the Apostles did not choose Him." If this were not so, there would have been no divine church. However, the article also states that "before a bishop could act, he had to be accepted by the church over which he was to preside." And it is in this and similar statements that Monsignor Hunt sees the "implication" of what he takes to be my thesis, namely, that "Authority in Church government rests with the people." The article does not maintain this. On the contrary, as stated in the article and quoted above, Church authority is of God. Nevertheless, since a primary condition of all ethical life is freedom of will or freedom of choice, the Primitive Church recognized the principle of common consent. If a bishop, in the Primitive organization, could have presided over a church against the will of the membership, there would have been no recognition of the principle of individual liberty. Though the grant of authority in the Primitive Church was of God, the Lord left, and now leaves, to the individual (and to the people) the decision as to whether this authority shall be exercised in his (or their) behalf or not.
Further Monsignor Hunt says that "As to whether the approval of the people is to be obtained before or after the appointment by officials, the argument of Professor Barker is not clear. It would seem to be implied, however, that the popular approval demanded by Professor Barker's theory may be registered either before or after appointment, that the time of the approval is not essential." The article seems sufficiently clear; it states: "If Joseph Smith is a prophet, it is because he was called of God, and the acceptance or rejection of his message in no way affects the authority of his priesthood (or that of his successors) and herein the principle of authority is operative. But Joseph Smith could not be president of the Church without the approval of the Church over which he presided." Naturally his calling as a prophet by God would precede his approval by the people as prophet and president of the Church. Before his divine calling there was nothing to approve.
In spite of the obvious meaning of the above quotations, Monsignor Hunt attributes to me the thesis "that Christ gives authority to Church officials only after they have been approved by the people." This is neither the belief nor the practice of the present-day Church: Christ calls prophets and confers his priesthood. Nevertheless, in recognition of the principle of free will, he leaves with the people the choice as to whether that priesthood (including the administrative authority of the priesthood) shall be exercised over them or not. The manner of choosing and ordaining the officers of the Primitive Church, being fundamental, was undoubtedly according to the will of the Savior, as revealed by the Holy Ghost.
Monsignor Hunt continues: "Professor Barker is content to offer evidence drawn from a date later than Christ. He offers certain facts drawn from the history of the early Church. His argument is that there was a practice among the Christians of the early Church by which popular approval for appointees to the priesthood and episcopacy was given, from which fact he concludes that the practice arose in the teachings of Christ. * * * "
"In a syllogistic form, Professor Barker's argument is as follows: Major premise: Any practice among the Christians of the early Church had its origin in the teachings of Christ. Minor premise: Among the Christians of the early Church was the practice of giving popular approval to candidates for the priesthood and the episcopacy. Conclusion: The practice of giving approval, therefore, had its origin in the intentions of Christ." And then Monsignor Hunt proceeds to state that the major premise is false. If so, it is not my fault; this major premise is not in the Relief Society Magazine article. I neither affirm nor contradict the thesis that "Any practice of the early Church had its origin in the teachings of Christ;" however, the organization of the Church and the manner of choosing and ordaining its officers, being fundamental, was undoubtedly, in the time of the Apostles, according to the will of the Savior as revealed by the Holy Ghost.
In the Primitive Church, bishops or presiding elders were nominated by superior authority but, according to the principle of free will, the wishes of the Church were ascertained concerning those who were to minister unto them. That the practice of submitting the officers chosen by superior authority for the approval of the people was general in the Primitive Church, seems to be the opinion of Catholic scholars:
"The head of the Church, elected to succeed Saint Alexander, was called Sixtus [116-125?]. * * * The people and the clergy of the city cooperated (concurrent) without doubt in his election. * * * It is established * * * by a mass of trustworthy documents (ensemble de documents certains) that in the third century, the election of the bishops of Rome, * * * was subject to the same regulations as the election of other bishops, and the canons of the councils of Arles, in 314, and of Antioch, in 341, give us to understand (font entendre) that they (the councils) are ratifying an ancient custom when they decree that the choice of the bishop is dependent 'on the assembly and the judgment of his colleagues.'" It is certain, moreover, that the priests (elders) and the people took part in the assembly of which mention is made here."*
As in the L. D. S. Church today, the will of the Church members was taken into account by the Apostles and the Apostles' disciples when they installed bishops. Catholic writers accept the fact of ascertaining the will of the people in the Primitive Church, and record the gradual abandonment of the practice.
"The first bishops were installed directly by the apostles and the apostles' disciples. Nevertheless these took into account the will of the church members, out of which there developed subsequently the right of approval on the part of the people, while the election itself was carried out by the clergy of the city. After a short time, the bishop elected, needed the confirmation of the metropolitan and of the provincial bishops. In certain countries the provincial bishops elected the bishops with the approval of the clergy and the people. There was, however, no real election on the part of the people anywhere, but only a collaboration on their part. Nevertheless, this participation on the part of the people was restricted more and more in the east. For instance, Justinian permitted only the prominent members to take part. The Council of Laodicea about 360 wanted to exclude the lay element entirely. And this collaboration of the people disappeared entirely from the ninth century on. In its place, however, the influence of the civil power made itself felt the more, especially in the west. In the Frankish kingdom, where bishops had been named not infrequently at an earlier date by the king, the election of the clergy was stipulated, it is true by the Council of Orleans (549), acknowledging, however, the right of confirmation on the part of the king. Among the West Goths, the election of bishops was entrusted to the k