[Vol34 | June 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Perception Flynn]

PERCEPTION Clarence Edwin Flynn Beyond the range of vision beauty dwells; Beyond the reach of hearing music rings; Beyond our understanding wisdom tells The deeper meanings of created things. Who am I to insist that what appears Alone is real, or hold life's wonder bound, Or to deny the music of the spheres, Because I have no way to catch its sound? Perhaps another world around me lies, With higher beings dwelling near te me, Like certain rays unnoticed by my eyes, But far more real than are the things I see. One day death's fingers will unveil my sight, Unstop my hearing, and unloose my mind. Then I shall know a universe of light To which the flesh so long has made me blind.
LION HOUSE RECIPES
By Angie Earl At last! Famous Lion House Dishes— tasty... Wholesome— can be made in your own home! Scores of choice recipes. Every page lies flat. 2.00
Order by mail, phone, or in person. BOOKCRAFT 1186
South Main Salt Lake City 4, Utah ) — should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top, many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished by the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales—to take copy and dramatize it, make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, nd our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. She Deseret News Press 29
Richards Street—Salt Lake City, Utah Page 432 BOOKS RECOMMENDED FOR RELIEF SOCIETY A Bible is a 5 CHORISTERS a, How Beautiful Upon The Mountains— lifetime Purchase... Harker 16¢ How Lovely Are The Messengers— Choose Ap Carefully a, at Home—Sibelius. "That Thou Hadst Hearkened—Sullivan.12¢ NATIONAL BIBLES —— 15¢ are QUALITY MADE Thy Dwellings— L. The ALITHORIZTED Holy Redeemer—Marchetti.....................15¢ in the AUTHORIZED Twenty-third Psalm—Schubert..............18c¢ Saviour Of The World—Goss-Ray.....15¢ _—Open The Gates Of The Temple— Knapp... «20 ee, Bless This House—Brahe...................15¢ Stranger Of Galilee—Morris _...............15¢ a. Peace I Leave With You—Roberts.....10c King Of Glory—Parks.. Cece.20¢ (Postage Additional to Prices Quoted) Prices on the above books upon request. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also. Ee Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band records and musicians' supplies. We solicit your patronage DAYNES MUSIC CO. 45-47 S. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 A Story You’ll Never Forget! "Sweet Love Remembered"
By Helen Cortez Stafford A fast-moving romance based on the life of Mary Ann Phelps Rich, wife of Charles C. Rich. And mother of distinguished Utahns. The true, thrilling story of a noted family and their associates, from Missouri to Utah and Idaho. Use the coupon. $2.79 DESERET BOOK CO. 44
East South Temple P. O. Box 958
Salt Lake City 10, Utah at $2.75 each (plus 2% sales tax in Utah. Au Name —. Address......