Guide Lessons for December
Theology and Testimony (First Week in December)
The three parables treated in this lesson unite in striking at the sin of selfishness.
The Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican. Luke 18: 9-14,
"Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a Publican.
"The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank Thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this Publican.
"I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
"And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner.
"I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
Setting: A special privileged place of prayer for the Israelites who lived near the temple. The hour of prayer: a time when all Israel prayed and when those afar off turned their faces toward the temple.
Comments: The two characters of this parable are present on an equal footing, so far as privilege is concerned. They both exhibit aloofness from the crowd; but their prayers were strikingly different, and in this the difference of the men was made manifest. From their utterances it was evident that the aloofness of the Pharisee, as he stood up by himself, had behind it an egotistic estimate of himself accompanied by its ever existing complement, disdain of others. The Pharisee paraded his pomposity where humility alone should have dared to tread. In his showing off, he displays self-conceit which, however satisfying to the individual, is always offensive to society and disapproved of God. His aloofness was that of the egotist.
The aloofness of the publican, for he stood afar off, was
prompted by a sense of propriety and a consciousness of self-insufficiency. He was a sinner, knew it, confessed it, and was on the way to becoming a saint. The Pharisee was a sinner, too, knew it, would not confess it, and was on the path of pride that goeth before a fall.
The declaration of Jesus as to the religious quality of the two men is strikingly representative of the truth that he who is righteous in his own conceit, there is more hope of a sinner than of him. There is a vast difference between being righteous in one's own conscience and in being righteous in one's own conceit; one is hypocrisy, the other is honesty.
The immediate purpose of this parable was, no doubt, emphatically to denounce the religious pomposity of the Pharisee, and to approve of the relative sincerity and toleration of the publican. The parable reached down the ages and will reach on to eternity with the mighty lesson that "he who exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
People unconsciously play the Pharisee in many ways: neighbors exulting in a fancied superiority, and parents priding themselves on having been so much better than are their children. Usually this self-exaltation ends in a finding-out that reveals the sand-pile foundation of the brag-castles. There is, however, a commendable, consistent kind of self-recommendation such as the Master himself made use of: "I am the life and the light of the world, follow me."
The Pharisaical tendency seems to have a radical root based on some universal human trait; the undesirability of which is laid bare in this parable. In Papini's Life of Christ we find the following: "Sinners, when they recognize the evil which is in their hearts and abjure it with true humility, are nearer to the Kingdom than pious men who daub themselves with the praise of their own piety."
The Parable of the Rich Fool. Luke 12: 16-21,
This parable denounces the delusion of self-security.
"And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully:
"And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits?
"And he said, This I will do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods.
"And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.
"But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall
"There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day:
"And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores,
"And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.
"And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;
"And in hell he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
"And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his fingers in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.
"But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.
"And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.
"Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house:
"For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
"Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
"And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent.
"And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead."
Comments: Evidently this parable was presented to a mixed multitude. It was especially directed to the unphilanthropic rich of the day, and taught the lesson to all for all time that greed and godliness are so opposed to each other that there never can be a place in heaven for anyone who grasps the good things of this world and holds them with a hand of selfishness.
Here was the rich man who lived to dress and eat and parade his power; a Judean Epicurean living only for the hour; with haughty head and icy heart and grasping hand, he led his life of luxury. There was the beggar, not an indolent street lounger, but an unfortunate cripple who could not walk, "which was laid at his gate full of sores." His destitution and helplessness furnished a condition by which the heart of the rich man could become an icicle or a fountain of love. 
The rich man developed pride and the beggar developed patience; one grew in greediness and the other grew in gratitude; and thus the gulf widened into a chasm over which angels cannot ever bear messages. The great laws of compensation and the eternal fitness of things make impossible even a miracle that would transport a "greedist" from the climate of habitual cold heartedness to that of a kingdom of kindness, "in the twinkling of an eye." The trail of experience must be climbed, the neglectful rich shall feel the pinch of spiritual poverty, and the gluttonous wealthy shall sense the pangs of spiritual hunger.
Angels carried Lazarus into the bosom of Abraham. What is the bosom of Abraham? It is no doubt the approval of God; but it is also the consciousness of a condition that would make the society of the generous Patriarch enjoyable.
The rich man died and lifted up his eyes in hell. This was no doubt the disfavor of God, and was it not, too, a realization of the total absence of the sources of selfish gratification? Nothing of his wealth could follow this rich man, and he had sent nothing of it before him. Treasures of heaven he had none. Habituated to plenty, he found himself in poverty, spoiled with sycophant praise he found himself in the midst of censure.
What is the impassable gulf? Whatever else the gulf may be, it is character-difference. The patient, grateful, humble character of Lazarus could neither go nor be taken to a place of spiritual discomfort; for these qualities of soul are the very essence of spiritual comfort. The greedy, unappreciative, haughty character of the rich man could never make way to the place of Abrahamic comfort because these selfish characteristics are incompatible with soul happiness.
Was not the hell also the quickened consciousness of guilt in the form of neglect?a going wrong by leaving the right undone? This miserable poor rich man looked up out of his torment and then began to climb up. When his heart went out for the safety of his brothers he gave evidence of coming out of the cell of selfishness, and when he made a stronger plea for his brothers than he had made for himself he showed real Christian courage. In his argument with Abraham his head was wrong but his heart was right. He could feel for his brothers, they were almost a part of him, but he could not understand that special service must precede special consideration. Lazarus, the once neglected beggar, is now recognized as a source of much needed help. "Send Lazarus," the rich man called, when he begged to have his parched lips moistened. "Send Lazarus," he cried, when he wanted his brother warned. His petition for his own relief was answered by citing him to the
provisions of the great law of compensation. Had he sympathized with Lazarus and given the beggar relief, the rich man would have been sharing the beggar's afflictions, and been entitled to gracious consideration. His first plea for the sending of Lazarus to warn his brothers was answered by a suggestion that they give heed to the messengers already sent, and his final appeal was met with a declaration in effect that those who will not be guided by the regularly revealed word of the Lord would not be guided by the words of a special messenger.
1. Discuss this proposition: The publican prayed; the Pharisee said his prayer.
2. Why was the parable of the Pharisee and the publican a better way to strike at the self-conceit of the Pharisees than the direct denunciation made to his disciples and recorded in Luke 12: 1?
3. Explain the difference between the aloofness of the Pharisee and that of the publican.
4. Give an illustration of commendable self-recommendation.
5. What sin is especially denounced by the parable of the rich fool?
6. Discuss the proposition: Ease without anxiety is like heaven without helpfulness.
7. In what way is an accounting demanded of each of us every night?
8. Show that Jesus taught by the parable of Lazarus and the rich man what he has proclaimed to us through Joseph Smith. See Doctrine and Covenants, 56: 16.
9. What does the bosom of Abraham, spoken of in the parable, mean to you?
10. What is the impassable gulf spoken of in the parable?
11. How could the rich man of the parable have sent some of his wealth before him into the world of spirits?
12. What would happen to heaven if greed were permitted to get there?
LESSON II (Second Week in December) Work AND BUSINESS 
LESSON III (Third Week in December) Literature
When we turn our attention to Edgar Allen Poe we are devoting ourselves to a poet of a very different class to the poets of the New England group. We confidently look for a moral in the poems of Longfellow, Lowell, and Whittier; and the themes of Nathanel Hawthorne's stories, whether long or short, have to do with moral attitudes. Edgar Allen Poe did not interest himself in this direction; beauty was for him and with him the outstanding consideration. A beautiful conception couched in beautiful language was to him the acme of artistic achievement in literature. Not many Americans agreed with his formula at the time he wrote, but there were people across the sea who gave his ideas whole-souled approval. The French people endeavoring to name the world's three most gifted individuals named Plato, Montaigne, and Edgar Allen Poe. This summer we listened to a professor from the University of California who had recently been a student of literature in the University of Paris. He stated that on the walls of the class room of the professor was found a portrait of one American poet and that poet was Edgar Allen Poe.
It is not difficult to realize why the French love Poe. They are the artists of the world. Whatever will conduce to loveliness of form, to beauty in color or tone, makes marvelous appeal to them; consequently Edgar Allen Poe's extraordinary power in the choice of words was sure to bring to him an unusual amount of praise from them.
Edgar Allen Poe's philosophy might be stated something in this wise: He said, as a poet, "I should write about the most beautiful thing in all the world." And then he put the question, what is the most beautiful thing in all the world? And concluded that a beautiful woman was the most beautiful of all God's creations, one who has passed into the spiritual world and is numbered with the angels, is even more beautiful than a living woman. This may seem a strange philosophy to us, but the 19th century was peculiarly sentimental over the death of a beautiful woman; consequently, even Poe was reflecting the feeling of his own age.
There is one observation in relation to this matter that we should not miss. In our early literature, men did not admire women for their beautiful soul qualities but rather for their physical beauty. One of the first stories in British literature, the story of King Arthur and Queen Guinevere, is a tale that elaborates a good deal on the physical beauty of the queen but is nevertheless a tale of guilty love. So from one point of view we should appreciate Edgar Allen Poe, for in appreciating the beauty of a woman who has gone to the spirit-world, he is placing emphasis on spiritual rather than physical beauty.
This philosophy will explain such poems as Annabel Lee and The Raven. We include Annabel Lee because it is typical of his philosophy, and quote a few stanzas from The Raven that carry something of the same thought.
It was many and many a year ago, In a kingdom by the sea, That a maiden there lived whom you may know By the name of Annabel Lee; And this maiden she lived with no other thought Than to love and be loved by me.
I was a child and she was a child, In this kingdom by the sea, But we loved with a love that was more than love? I and my Annabel Lee? With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven Coveted her and me.
And this was the reason that, long ago, In this kingdom by the sea, A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling My beautiful Annabel Lee; 
So that her highborn kinsmen came And bore her away from me, To shut her up in a sepulchre In this kingdom by the sea.
The angels, not half so happy in heaven, Went envying her and me? Yes!?that was the reason (as all men know, In this kingdom by the sea) That the wind came out of the cloud by night, Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.
But our love it was stronger by far than the love Of those who were older than we? Of many far wiser than we? And neither the angels in heaven above, Nor the demons down under the sea, Can ever dissever my soul from the soul Of the beautiful Annabel Lee:
For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And the stars never rise, but I feel the bright eyes Of the beautiful Annabel Lee: And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling?my darling?my life and my bride, In the sepulchre there by the sea? In her tomb by the sounding sea.
Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly, Though its answer little meaning?little relevancy bore; For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door? Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door, With such name as "Nevermore."
But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour. Nothing further then he uttered?not a feather then he fluttered? Till I scarcely more than muttered, "Other friends have flown before? On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before." Then the bird said, "Nevermore."
Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken, "Doubtless," said I, "what it utters is its only stock and store Caught from some unhappy master. Whom unmerciful disaster Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore? Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore Of 'Never?nevermore'."
But the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling, Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird, and bust and door; Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore? What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore? Meant in croaking "Nevermore."
Thus I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core; This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamplight gloated oer, But whose velvet violet lining with the lamplight gloating o'er, She shall press, ah, nevermore!
Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer Swung by Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor. "Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee?by these angels he hath sent thee Respite?respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore; Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore!" Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."
Another very important side of Poe's realization of the beautiful in art is found in his selection of words in his middle rhymes and all that combines to produce very unusual and most extraordinary verse from the standpoint of music. Poe instinctively selected musical words but if he could not find a word in the language musical enough to suit his refined ear, he would coin a word to suit the case at hand. Examples of his choice in words and the rhythm can be found in such lines as: "And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain, Thrilled me?filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before."; "For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams, Of the beautiful Annabel Lee."; "Hear the sledges with the bells?Silver bells! What a world of merriment their melody foretells! How they tinkle, tinkle, tinkle, In the icy air of night! While the stars that overgone All the heavens, seem to twinkle With a crystalline delight." There is much of color and much of tone in the examples given in the line, "And the silken, sad, uncertain rustling of each purple curtain." We have both 'music and color and the other lines quote very much music. Few poets have ever been able s* to combine language that it produced as much real music as we find in the poems of Edgar Allen Poe. Edgar Allen Poe wrote our first detective stories, and was a medium through which many people obtained peculiar and haunting physical thrills. This type of literature seems always popular. The mystery play of today caters to the same trait in human nature as Edgar Allen Poe's stories catered to. Such plays as The Bat, The Cat and the Canary, and The Thirteenth Chair all aim at producing situations that will cause intense physical and mental excitement, thereby producing what the modern pleases to call thrills. If you are unacquainted with Poe and wish to put this matter to the test, read The Fall of the House of Usher, The Pit and the 542. Pendulum, The Black Cat, Murders in the Rue Morgue, and The Gold Bug, and see if the mental stimulation and physical reaction is not similar to that produced by the modern mystery play. Questions and Problems 1. Go to some manual on American Literature, or the encyclopedia and find a few biographical notes, on Edgar Allen Poe, and give them to the class. 2. Select the middle rhymes to be found in Annabel Lee. 3. If the time will permit have some one read The Raven to the class. While it is being read listen to the music of the words and the music of the verse. 4. Select from The Raven twelve of the most musical words used in the poem.. 5. Is the weird feeling so much a part of Poe's stories as a part of The Raven? 6. Which class of poetry do you prefer, the class that is written to express moral ideas, or the class that is created for the purpose of representing and expressing beauty? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December) PROBLEMS OF INCOME A measure of economic security is essential to satisfactory family development. The burden and worry of debts may be the cause of much unpleasantness and unhappiness. Financial insecurity, too, may deprive the members of a family of certain needs ?sufficient food, clothing, health care, education, etc. Economic security is dependent on two factors: first, the nature and the amount of the income, and second, the manner in which the income is spent. This discussion will deal with some of the problems of income and the subject of the next lesson will be family budgets and expenditures. It is impossible to state in actual figures what the income for a family of a certain number should be. The amount necessary to maintain a family varies with the ages, the state of health, the educational standards of the group, and on the living costs in different neiyhborhoods, localities, and in different seasons of the year. To determine, then, what income is needed to maintain a GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 543 family, it is necessary to study its standard of living; that is, to determine what things all of the members of the group hold to be essential to their well-being and for which they are willing to sacrifice. If there is a discrepancy between the available income and the proposed budget, either the income must be increased or the expenditures curtailed. If an increase in income seems to be necessary to maintain a family properly, it may be that the man, who usually provides the family income, can be placed in a better position. It is possible that he is not suited to his work and is, consequently, not advancing financially as his family responsibilities increase. Or, it may be that the nature of his occupation makes regular employment difficult. He may prosper certain years or certain seasons but at other periods find himself financially distressed. A family whose. Income is based on seasonal occupations must necessarily plan more carefully than one whose income is fixed and regular. But even with the regular income of a man suitably employed, a family's needs may be greater than the man's earnings. The pressure of an inadequate income, together with increasing vocational opportunities, have made many a woman seek a place in the industrial world. It is difficult to decide just how completely a woman's activities should be restricted to the home. Many women succeed very satisfactorily in rearing a family and, at the same time, pursuing some study, or career, or occupation. There is, however a great need of social protest, if family life is made to suffer because of women's activities outside the home. This protest should be especially strong, if it is the lack of an income that forces a mother to shoulder the double load of supporting the family and managing her home. To place children in industry in order to supplement an inadequate income is now looked upon with disfavor. It is obviously poor economy to sacrifice health, education, and normal development of children merely to add their pittance to the family budget. Although there still are children who are placed in factories and shops and in the fields before they are physically able to perform such labor, and although many children are taken from the schoolroom with only the most rudimentary training, the prevailing public sentiment is to prohibit child labor and to extend the period of required school attendance. _ In some of the manufacturing centers, certain types of handwork that can be done away from the factories are taken home by the employees. This home work is difficult for labor inspectors to supervise and consequently many women and_ children are engaged in this uncontrolled occupation. The work is usually tedious and poorly paid, but is frequently resorted to as a possible means of adding a few dollars to a meagre income, With a growing realization that thrusting women and children 544. into industry carries with it grave social dangers, has come to more general understanding that the community has a responsibility to care for families who are deprived of a normal income. Under some circumstances it is sound social economy for the state, or church, or private agencies to assist certain families, perhaps even for a long period of time. When such assistance is deemed necessary and wise, it should be based on a carefully thought-out plan, and should be adequate to meet the needs and standards of the family. Ref. Normal Life, Edward T. Divine, pages 111-116. ? QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Under what circumstances piety a family be deprived of its normal income? 2. Why is an inadequate income demoralizing to a family? 3. What type of employment is undesirable for women? 4, What might a woman do to add to the income without neglecting her family? 5. What are the chief dangers of having a child enter employment too early? 6. Why should some children have opportunity to attend school longer than others? Teachers' Topic for December LOVE "To love abundantly i is to live abundantly, and to love forever is to live forever." "Charity is the true love of Christ." Moroni 7:47. Read and discuss chapter referred to in Book of Mormon; also I Corinthians, chapter 13. Callaways The greatest gift and Dinnerware Store in the West. You are most cordially invited to visit us?no urging to buy? come in and see the. Wonderful display of. Attractive articles for Christmas Gifts Immediately following the Saturday afternoon Conference 'we will give FREE Souvenirs to all our lady friends who visit our store. When Buying Mention All Up-To-Date Libraries Both Public and Private Contain Bound Volumes of the Following are the bound volumes we have on hand: 5 vols. 1915, leather bound..... $3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound.... At ae 3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound 25 5 vols. 1917, leather bound... 3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound......3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound.. 2.75 5 vols. 1919, leather bound)... 3.50 10 vols. 1920, leather bound... 3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound... 3.50 6 vols. 1922, cloth bound. 5 vols. 1922, leather bound... 3.50 l5e extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the , Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. The management of the requests, that whenever possible, remit by Post Office order in payment for subscriptions. To Our Patrons and Friends To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender. | Sample: (Address) Relief Soeiety Magazine, Room 20, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. Compare the Pages of Che Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense?And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY" RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY,' DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "TI am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses.: "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." BUREAU OF INFORMATION