[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: EGYPTOLOGY. | Author: Unknown]

		EGYPTOLOGY.

	The colossus of the Ramesseum at
Thebes, a sitting statue of 800 tons, was 60
feet in height. Mr. Petrie shows the Zoan
monolith, of over 900 tons, to have been
between 90 and 100 feet in height. You
may judge, too, of the stupendous charac-
ter of the buildings at Zoan, when this ex-
plorer states that over 20,000,000 of large
bricks were found in the wall at the end of
the temple axis. Of course they were not
counted one by one. Where was Goshen?
Naville had read on two fragments in the
Cairo Museum inscriptions relating to the
nome (district) in Egypt called Arabia,
which was known from the Septuagint and
Greek historians to represent the land of
Goshen. When he espied a block of black
granite peeping from the mud at Saft-el-
Henneh, four miles east of the railway sta-
tion Zag-a-Zig, his trained eye instantly
recognized it as a third fragment of the
monument from which the two fragments
had been taken. The results of six weeks
of work proved that he had found the site
of the city of Goshen, about which lay that
fat land.
	Josephus is enthroned as a credible his-
torian by the disclosures of Naville at the
site of Onias, one of the Jewish cities re-
ferred to by Isaiah (19:19).
	How the spade itself must have caught
an electric thrill when it turned up at
Tahpanhes the gold handle to Pharaoh
Hophras’ tray! He entertained Jeremiah
and the royal daughters of Zedekiah but
Nebuchadrazzar entered Egypt and razed
the palace-fort. Read the story in that
prophet, 37-47. Petrie well exulted in the
fund report: “The interest of finding the
only Egyptian building specifically named
in the Old Testament is unique, and this
is increased by the fact that its arrange-
ments explain a special description given by
Jeremiah.”
	Those Tel-el-Amarna tablets are an ex-
haustless mine yet how many like tablets
patiently await the discoverer’s eye? As
stated at the Congress of Orientalists in
September at Geneva, a tablet disinterred at
Lachish, the Amorite city captured by
Joshua, has on it the name of Zimrida, the
govenor of Lachish, the very man men-
tioned in the Tel-el-Amarna tablets. So
not only Tel-el-Amarna proves the existence
of Lachish, but shows the interchange of
these tablets, used as they were, or diploma-
tic correspondence between Egypt, Canaan
and Babylonia.
	A papyrus of the third century that

[Column 2]
greets the explorer of 1892, containing por-
tions of Zechariah and Malachi, is considered
to be the oldest copy extant, and to have
been copied from the original Septuagint.
	Another papyrus-roll? It is the long-lost,
spurious Gospel of St. Peter, valuable now
as corroborative evidence of the narratives
of the evangelists. A complete picture of
the varied society in the Fayoum of the
golden days of the Ptolemies is afforded by
the rescued papyri from Gurob; the voca-
bulary of the Septuagint contains many of
the words peculiar to them.
	Do my fair readers wish for entertaining
monograms of life in Athens 250 years B.
C.? Egypt gives up the poems of Herodes,
a local poet, who introduces a dialogue be-
tween two dames anent servant-girl afflict-
ions. fashions, and the best bargains.
	The affluent mound of Naukratis, the
site of the brilliant Greek emporium in
Egypt prior to Alexandria, 1000 by 500
yards, at the spade’s bidding has given us
material for “a very important advance in
our knowledge of the early Greek world ”
as Professor Middleton remarked.
	A headless Apollo, most diminutive, from
Naukratis, now in Boston, is fully recognized as a
prototype of the famous Apollo of Thera in the
museum at Athens.
	The remains of the Temple of Apollo
vividly recalls details of the Erectheum in
Athens; hundreds of broken vases and bowls
show, as nowhere else, the development of
the early Ionic alphabet; a vast collection of
Greek tools of 600 B. C. exceeds all other
finds in number and variety; the site of the
first scarab factory yet discoverd reveals
the entire process of fabrication of that cu-
rious emblem of immortality to the ancient
Egyptain. “The Egyptian Princess” of
Ebers became history as well as romance
when the dull mound exposed its treasures.
		*	*	*	*	*
	That wonderful woman, Queen Hatasu,
built the most unique temple in all Egypt,
and to-day Dr. Naville’s pickaxes and
spades are finishing its excavation. The
woman who could order cut, made, en-
graved, gold-tipped, and set up at Karnak
the two largest and finest of all the obelisks,
aud have her order executed within seven
months’ time, was the Pharaoh before all
others to erect this terraced temple. On
the walls of the south division of the mid-
dle colonnade her depicted naval expedi-
tion to Punt was found by Mariette; while
Naville has recently disclosed on the walls
of the northern division a history of Hatasu
—her birth, education enthronment.—
The New Cycle.


