[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: EXPONENT. | Author: Unknown]

EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN VOTERS.
	The question of women voting in Utah
seems to have awakened considerable
thought and some expression of opinions
through the public press, all of which may
be beneficial as it will be somewhat educa-
tional, as such discussions of questions
usually is.
	The Deseret Evening News of July 26th,
editorially in speaking on the subject of
the naturalization of foreign-born women,
quotes from opinions of eminent judges of
the Supreme court of the United States and
says Justice Field delivered the opinion of
the court in which it is said:
	‘The case turns upon the construction
given to the second section of the act of
Congress of February 10, 1855, which de-
clares “that any woman, who might law-
fully be naturalized under the existing laws,
married, or who shall be married to a c[-]tizen
of the United States, shall be deemed and
taken to be a citizen. ’ ’ As we construe this
act, it confers the privileges of citizenship
upon women married to citizens of the Uni-
ted States, if they are of the class of persons
for whose naturalization the previous acts of
Congress provide. * * *The terms,
“who might lawfully be naturalized under
existing laws,” only limit the application of
the law to free white women. The previous
naturalization act, existing at the time, only
required that the person applying for the
benefits should be “a free white person,”
and not an alien enemy. * * * It
follows from these views, that the widow
and the two sisters were citizens of the Uni-
ted States upon the decease of the intestate
husband. The widow and Margaret Kahoe
became such on the naturalization of their
respective husbands, and Ellen Owen be-
came such on her marriage.”
	This was, the News says in 1870, but the
same editorial says the latest decision upon

[Column 2]
the question was in the noted Blythe case
in California in 1892.
	“On the same subject, and passing directly
upon the qualifications of voters, the su-
preme court of Illinois, in the case of Keitz
vs. Behreusmeyer, reported in the 125th
Ills., says that whenever a woman, alien
born, who might be naturalized, is in a
state of marriage to a citizen, whether his
citizenship existed at the passage of the act
of Congress of February 18, 1855, or before
or after the marriage, she becomes by that
fact a citizen also and this citizenship is
not lost by the subsequent death of her hus-
band and her afterwards marrying an alien.
	“By the rulings referred to, the matter ap-
pears to be settled beyond all controversy.
The United States Supreme Court is quite
clear upon the question in the case of Kelly
vs. Owens, above referred to, laying down
the rule that the act of Congress of Febru-
ary 10, 1855, which declares “that any wo-
man who might lawfully be naturalized
under the existing laws, married, or who
shall be married to a citizen of the United
States, shall be deemed and taken to be a
citizen,” confers the privileges of citizen-
ship upon women married to citizens of the
United States, if they are of the class of
persons for whose naturalization the previ-
ous acts of Congress provide. The court
states that the terms “married,” or “who
shall be married,” in the act, do not refer
to the time when the ceremony of marriage
is celebrated, but to a state of marriage
and that they mean that whenever a woman,
who under previous acts might be natural-
zed, is in a state of marriage to a citizens
she becomes, by that fact, a citizen also.
His citizenship, whenever it exists, confer,
citizenship upon her.”
	It is to be hoped that the women of this
Territory will study the subject of voting,
and certainly so far as legality is concerned,
and be sure beyond the shadow of a doubt,
that they are doing right. It is such a new
departure, that one need not be embarrassed
in asking for imformation and look to it
that it is positively reliable. It is the firm
belief of the writer that women will not
neglect home duties to attend to public
affairs unless in very exceptional cases,
which frequently occur (as is well known)
in other ways, and for other ends, apart
from suffrage.
	The Deseret Evening News of July 27th,
mentions leading journals East and West as
arguing that women cannot vote at the No-
vember election, and gives the opinion ex-
pressed by the New York Sun (Democratic)
thus:
	“On this hypothesis the Sun advises the
women who want to avoid interference with
the admission of the territory to keep away
from the polls in November. The Repub-
lican San Francisco Chronicle takes a similar
stand, insisting that the adoption of a con-
stitution is only one step in the process of
state-making, and until Utah is fully and
completely a State it must be and remain
under the control of Congress, and be gov-
erned by its laws, which do not recognize
female suffrage in the Territory. As to the
fact that certain officials are to be elected to
become State officers, it is argued that they
are to be chosen by the legal voters of the
Territory, and that the women must wait
until the first State election before they can
exercise the right of suffrage.
	Certainly the women who have been
granted the suffrage in the new State that
is to have the best interests of all at heart,
will abide by the legal decision which must


be given by proper authority to guide the
people in what shall determine the future
prosperity of this great and growing com-
monwealth for the next few years at least.
There should be positive certainty as to the
course to be pursued and for this decision
men will be responsible, because women
can have no actual knowledge on the subject.
It is a serious question, and the best and
highest judicial authority, should in our
humble opinion, determine and announce
the solution of this problem over which
there is at present much controversy.
	As the Primaries are to be held very soon
and as this is the first step towards Con-
ventions for nominating candidates, no time
ought to be lost in quibbling but the specific
course in relation to women voting marked
out, that there may be no mistakes made or
any hindrances in the way of “a fair field
and fair play.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
FOREIGN LETTER.
	HOBART TASMANIA, June 15, 1895.
	Editor Woman’s Exponent:—I have
long been thinking of writing a short letter
to the Exponent to express my gratefulness
for sending it to me, which is truly appreci-
ated. and is very instructive and beneficial;
but almost feared that I would be trespass-
ing upon your valuable space. Many
others here have read it. and think it an
excellent paper.
   Since I have been in this land, I have be-
held many things that do not seem pleasant
to one that has been reared in the vales of
Mormon Utah.
   It is heart-rending to witness the harsh-
ness and cruelty of parents towards chil-
dren, and the negligence of their support
and instruction. Large families brought
into the world without knowing scarcely
where the food and clothing will come
from, and are thrown on to the world to
beg for a living. Some of the most cruel 
things, from time to time are brought under
my observation, one I will mention:
   I saw some little children standing around
the door of a “public house,” crying on a
very cold day, bare-headed, and bare-footed,
with scarcely enough clothing on to cover
them; two little ones not more than two
and three years old with a red handkerchief
tied up. The mother finally came to the
door staggering from drink. The two little
ones said, crying bitterly, as if nearly
starved, “Mamma he won’t give us a bit
of bread.” She viciously took the bread
from the little boy, which he had evidently
been begging for, and went off with it.
The little boy leaned back against the house
as if disheartened.
	This, with many other things I have
witnessed has almost caused me to go and
weep. To think of the dear little children
so helpless within themselves, who might
be beautiful and noble if cared for tenderly.
   I will not attempt to relate any other in-
stances, but they occur every day among
those people who constantly visit “public
houses.” How my heart aches for the
the poor little children. How grand, if
they could only be cared for as our little
children are in Zion. May our Heavenly
Father forbid that any of the mothers in
Israel, should ever, so sadly neglect their
innocent offspring that He has so graciously
given them, and entrusted to their care.
When I see the mother so brutal I feel as
if I could take the little things, if it were

[Column 2]
in my power, and bring them up to serve
God, and enjoy a few of the blessings which
they are entitled to.
   No wonder each generation becomes
more corrupt and wicked. They have neg-
lected to give the proper training to prevent
the children from being robbed of their
birthright before they are born. And then
children being born with the sins visited
upon them, who need the most guarded
training are the least thought of.
   I have heard it said here, that there are
few honestly born children in the colonies.
   O, I feel as if I could proclaim our glori-
ous Gospel truths, were it possible, with a
voice of thunder unto this hardened people,
and cause them to realize what greatness
and goodness is taught among the people of
God, called Latter Day Saints.
   If they would put into practice in their
daily walks and conversation, the instruc-
tion given by the true servants of God, how
great their happiness and numerous their
blessings.
   One can more fully comprehend this,
when they are brought to see the wicked-
ness here in the world, and contrast it with
the beautiful sermons put forth by our el-
ders from (Mormon) pulpits, and even the
beneficial writings in the Exponent by
leading women.
   Mothers here in the majority think they
must keep their daughters innocent in re-
gard to the marriage relations, and those
things which would keep them from going
astray, if they receive a mother’s timely
warning, and they are not few who treat
virtue as merely nothing. I have talked
with a number who have said, “I would go
to any one rather than my mother to gain
information on such subjects.” So in many
instances mothers have driven their daugh-
ters from them and destroyed that confidence
which should draw their children to them.
Those tender cords are broken which our
Heavenly Father destined to be there.
There is not so much innocence as ignorance,
and it is time the world should wake to a
sense of the false modesty that exists.
   I sincerely pray with all my heart for the
welfare of Zion, and that the Lord will con-
tinue to guide the mothers of Israel to bring
up the young and rising generation to be
honest, noble, industrious, intelligent and
faithful before the Lord, and the eyes of
the world, and not let supposed innocence
endanger their virtue; for when that is lost
then what a sad condition. Although the
sin may be forgiven the stain will never
wash away.
   The parents will be held accountable to a
certain extent for their children’s actions;
therefore it behooves them to be watchful
and prayerful in their behalf.
	My heart is with the suffrage movement,
and I hope that all the sisters will be able
to use the franchise for the best when it is
obtained. If all would listen to the advice
of noble women, they would strive to live
better lives, and their thoughts and actions
would rise to a higher and grander sphere.
They would be eager to encourage and
hasten on the rights of women. I think
women were not put on the earth to remain
silent in political matters, while their fami-
lies are brought in contact with the rascality
of the world around them; they should
have a voice, then, the condition of affairs
would be materially changed. There is a
good society formed here called the
Woman’s Temperance Council, by the wo-
men of South Australia, (who have received
full franchise). But when I attended their

[Column 3]
meeting, I found that with all their good
intent, there was something lacking, and
of course readily perceived they were de-
ficient of that benign Heavenly influence
which creates such sisterly love that is ex-
perienced among the Latter Day Saints.
They cannot accomplish the desired end by
relying on their own strength. The gospel
plan is the only system through which
these things can be successfully carried out.
I remain your sister in the Gospel.
		LOUISE KIMBALL-POND.


