[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 645 | Special Feature | Birthday Congratulations to President David | O. McKay]
[Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay]

for the accomplishment of their assignment. President Eliza R. Snow was sixty-four years old in 1868. She 

649 September 1967

 had been a member of the Church since 1835. Devoted and generous, she contributed from her personal inheritance "'a very considerable amount" for the building of the Kirtland Temple. At an early age, her knowledge of the Bible was exceptional, and her "literary labors," had achieved distinction even before she became a schoolteacher, a governess, and a spiritual-minded leader of women in Nauvoo. During the exodus, sue learned to drive an ox team, and "labored unceasingly in the camps of Zion." In 1856, her first book of poems was published in Liverpool, England. Her magnificent doctrinal hymn, "O My Father" was a favorite with President Brigham Young, and he often requested it to be sung in the congregations of the saints. With President Eliza R. Snow, during most of her "'organizational travels' to the settlements, were her beloved Counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney. Zina, who was born in 1821, and joined the Church in 1835, followed with her father's family the early migrations of the Church. A woman of remarkable spiritual insight, and great energy, she directed many special assignments for Relief Society. In 1868, twenty years were to elapse before Zina D. H. Young would become the third General President of Relief Society. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, an early member of the Church, born in 1800, was the eldest of the three sisters in the presidency in 1868. She had been second counselor in Nauvoo—one of the most devoted of the "founding sisters," knowing the needs of women and the ways to comfort and inspire, 650 as she said, '"'the beautiful ones on the earthly road to eternity." Another of the "ten leading sisters," who traveled the length and breadth of Deseret to organize and supervise Relief Societies, was Bathsheba W. Smith, the youngest member present at the first meeting in Nauvoo, who was destined to outlive nearly all of the approximately 1300 women who became members before the exodus. Bathsheba became president of Relief Society in 1901 and served until her death in 1910. As these "illustrious"? Women journeyed to the settlements, organizing, encouraging, inspiring the teachers, the scenes at the gathering places and the living tableaus of the meetings were to be long remembered. One sister, residing in "the center of the Territory," reported an experience shared by hundreds as the days and the years of organization continued: I rode in from the field, following the path along the foothills, and when I came to the place where I could see the meetinghouse, there were buggies and wagons and riding ponies close together along the fence, and women walking through the sagebrush—all converging together. I had never seen anything like it since the days of Nauvoo—but that was in a green and rainy land—and this was a blossoming in the desert. A sister from Fillmore said: "I was lonely on the far frontier— but two events of beauty illuminated my life—one was the first blossoming of my lilac bush, and the other was the organization of Relief Society." By the time the "organizing sisters" reached Gunnison, in the valley of the Sanpitch, the sisters, under the direction of the bishop, had been organized for more than a year, iholding two meetings a month "one prayer and one working bee." In Fayette, a village on the Sevier River, the "sisters from Salt Lake" found the women already busy with handicrafts and the sharing of helpful household practices. "Clara Mellor Hill was an expert at making yeast, which she generously shared with everyone 'for a start,' "' and Polly Benson Bartholomew "was an artist at weaving beautiful rugs, carpets, and bedspreads." Testimony meetings were a joy to the visitors and a time of gratitude and reflection for the sisters who felt that their heritage had been restored. One sister said that she had been so occupied learning the ways of the land — the late and early coming of the snow, the direction of winds, the availability of water for the garden, the innumerable tasks within her home, that she had almost forgotten Relief Society.