[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 655 | Fiction | Janet | W. Breeze]
4 654 ~ 5 ae Throw Down 1, e U rl rat rea 4 ra ie on f U Chapter 1 Janet W. Breeze ¢ Nancy placed a dinner plate upside down on a large piece of orange-colored construction paper and carefully traced a circle, which she then cut with the scissors. Today she had reached the summit of five years' work — or was it a life's work? When she had been a child, and everyone would ask, "What are you going to be when you grow up?" Nancy knew. "A dancing teacher like Mama," she would always say. "And I'm going to wear my hair in a bun and tap a long stick on the floor." Now Nancy's hair was short and curled. But she had been tapping that long stick on the floor for seven years—two years at the university, and five years in her own studio. Dancing was her life. At the age of two, she had sat on top of the piano while her older sister played and her mother directed the students. At the age of three, she had joined the beginner class. Right from the start, dancing had been more than just. One-hour-a-week thing with Nancy. She had practiced daily —with no coaxing from anyone. As long as she could remember, her bedroom, while she was growing up, had been decorated with colored prints of the Dégas ballerinas. And the day she first wore a romantic costume "en pointe" was the day she first felt like a woman. It was at an MIA dance festival that she and Grant nad first noticed each other. And their first project after their marriage had been to pool their savings for the minimum down payment on an old Victorian house with a timeworn lean-to which had been used as a dancing studio in years past. Grant had always willingly supported her whenever she mentioned dancing. And right from the beginning, she had scheduled as many lessons a day as she pos- 

655 September 1967

 sibly could handle in order to make enough money to have the useful old room _ transformed. Now it was done. Now she had the beautiful, mirrored studio she had dreamed of as a child. "This is it!" she said to Grant. "The final touch to our new dancing studio." She tiptoed across the glossy hardwood floor and taped the orange-colored circle on the wall. "Not," she laughed, "that 'ocusing their little five-year-old eyes on an orange-colored spot is going to straighten out all of my spinning ballerinas—but at least it makes me feel as though I've tried!" Then she swiftly pirouetted back across the room and threw her arms enthusiastically around her husband's neck. "Oh, Grant," she said. "I'm so happy! Just think! Five years and it's finally happened!" Then she giggled. "Of course, that's not how long we thought it would take to remodel this wreck when we bought it. Remember, Mr. Jackson? We were going to rebuild completely and redecorate both the house and studio the first year we lived here." "That was before Amy was born, and Skipper," Grant reminded her. "Right! But now it's finished. Oh, honey, doesn't it give you a feeling of accomplishment? I mean—yjust as if every eighteen inches along these walls there is a little-bit of you nailed in?" Grant held Nancy close and twisted a lock of her hair around his finger. "Come on, now," he said. "I didn't hit my thumb with the 656 hammer that many times, did 1?" "Silly! You know what I mean. It's no longer someone else's old house and studio. Now it's a part of us. It's really ours!" "Nan?" Grant held her at arm's length and looked into her eyes. "Huh?" He turned and pulled her toward the couch. "Come sit down." "Sit!" she exclaimed. "When I feel like dancing my little red shoes off?" But then she looked at him again and she felt that he was pleading with her for something she couldn't understand. ""What's the matter, Grant?" ""Nan—have you ever heard of Micronesia?" She sat down and thought a moment. ''Well—sure." Her face brightened. "One of my friends told me once that she went to this party. They played a game where each person had to use a certain word in a sentence. And her word was Micronesia. Well, she didn't know what it was, so she told them that before she was married, she had a pet crow. And her boy friend was so slow in proposing to her, that finally she said, 'Please marry me—my crow needs ya!" In Nancy's holiday mood, she laughed heartily at her own humor. "That's not exactly what I had in mind," Grant said, his expression growing stern. She sighed and gave him a puzzled look. "All right, Grant. So I don't know what Micronesia is. Maybe it's a long-lost relative of Poly- nesia. Anyway—I don't see what this has to do with reopening our dancing studio. We're supposed to be celebrating!" Grant's expression remained serious and intent. "Micronesia means 'little islands, Nancy. They're in the Western Pacific. And they have everything to do with opening the studio again. Nan—TI guess I should have told you before this. Well, I tried. I mean—maybe I should have said something before I checked into it so thoroughly— but I want to go there." Nancy cocked her preoccupied head. "That's, nice dear. We'll probably be able to save enough money by the time you retire." Grant jumped to his feet and gestured with his outstretched hands. "Nancy, please! Will you listen to me! I know how wrapped up you are in teaching ballet! But the Department of the Interior is recruiting teachers to work in the Trust Territory of the Pacific. And I want to apply." He impulsively took a brochure out of his pocket and placed it in her hand. On the cover was a heart-tugging picture of wideeyed, brown-skinned children sit- "Sy mats and Then he ting on Pandanus begging to be taught. Handed her an application blank. "The Government calls that a Form 57," he said, his voice taking on the tone of an apology. Throw Down the Gauntlet Nancy's eyes began to blur as she tried to understand the words: "Held by the United States under trusteeship from the United Nations—three million square miles (mostly water)." "You're serious!" her voice came as a squeaky whisper. "Oh, Nancy. I'm not just saying this to try to hurt you, believe me." He sat back down and enveloped her firmly in his arms. "But, honey, don't you remember those two crazy college kids? The ones who used to sit parked in a car planning—daydreaming about setting the world on fire—while Mama kept flipping the front porch light off and on?" "Oh, come on, Grant," she pulled away from his grasp. "That was six years and two-anda-third babies ago!" "But I haven't forgotten that dream, Nancy. Nor the girl who wanted to share it with me. Remember? We talked about what an education it would be to get out and see the world. You were interested in writing that book on folk dancing. And I was going to do field research on _littleknown plant life." "That was just talk. You were right the first time. Those words were uttered by two crazy college kids—not the parents of preschoolers." "We made other plans in those wee small hours, too—our goals in life. Or have you forgotten?" He got up and walked slowly across the room and turned off the air conditioner. Then Amy burst through the door. "Mama! Look at the new book Grandma gave me. Read it!"' "Not now!" Nancy snapped, 

657 September 1967

 trying desperately to hold back her tears. "Can't you tell that Daddy and I are busy talking?" Amy turned away and _halfheartedly left the room. "There's the biggest reason of all why we should go, Nancy," Grant said. "What do you mean?" "You're tired. I can tell. You always cut the children and me short when you've been driving yourself too hard. When some women are pregnant, they feel sleepy or get sick. But not Nancy Jackson. She makes drapes and goes to six A. M. Road show practices six days a week." "Now, Grant. You know that's the only time we can get the boys and girls together during the summer—and we're going to win —I just know it! They're getting polished to absolute perfection! And, as for the drapes, you know I wanted the house and studio finished so I could get a good two-months' teaching in before Sally comes to substitute for me." "That's my Nancy-doll. Everything polished. Everything perfection. And what will the children and I have left when you've burned yourself out?" Nancy slumped down deeper into the sofa. "Turn the air conditioner back on, will you?" she said. "It's stifling in here." "T love you, Nancy. I want you to take better care of yourself." She reopened the brochure. "Can you choose where you want to go?" "Tentatively. I'd like to go to Saipan, mainly because of the large American colony they have there. It's Trust Territory Head- 658 quarters. It would be the best place for you and the children." "Have you given any thought to the Church?" "A great deal of thought, Nancy. And some correspondence." os And?" Grant was right. Suddenly Nancy felt extremely tired. ~ "Well, there's a small branch of the Church on Guam—mostly military personnel." '"'Where's that?' Nancy asked. "In the Mariana Islands, and nearly 1500 miles southeast of Tokyo." "And Guam's as close as the Church is—100 wet miles?" "Well—not exactly." Now his voice began to accelerate with enthusiasm. '"There's one other Latter-day Saint family on Saipan!" "One other?" "Well, what I mean is, if we went." "All right," she said, "'let's see their letter." Dear Brother & Sister Jackson: We were so thrilled to receive your letter of the eighth. It's not often we hear from any of the saints directly. We go to Guam and attend the meetings once every six months, but aside from that, our only contact with the Church is the monthly publications we subscribe to by mail and receive two months late. We have dreamed often of having company in our little LDS meetings, and would enthusiastically welcome you to Saipan. However, I must be honest with you. Having been active in a large ward, you would miss the Church terribly. People who can "rub shoulders" with their brothers and sisters in the gospel don't really know what a treasure they have. Sometimes I long so just to sit in a real chapel—in a congregation—that I weep thinking about it. But Charles is dedicated to his work, and I wholeheartedly support him in it. Teaching is his life. He-considers it a great and rewarding task to take these eager young Micronesian minds and teach them not just about the three R's, but about democracy. For, truly, the sole purpose of the United States here in the Trust Territory is to train the new generation to govern themselves. Free agency is useless unless individuals know how to channel it for a better society. This is the great challenge now in Micronesia. And someday, we hope this race will be receptive to even greater teachings. Sincerely, your sister, Francine Mortensen P. S. If you decide to come, let us know. Perhaps we can advise you on what not to bring. Nancy looked up from the letter. She had never thought of it before—that maybe teaching was Grant's life, and she had been. Thinking about her own career and her goals, which he had seemed to share. "How long is a contract?" she asked. "Two years." Throw Down the Gauntlet Nancy looked around her—at the new ice-blue drapes she had made the week before, at the roster of students, and at the orange "spot" she had just taped to the wall. "Oh, Grant. It's just too much to give up. After all our work. After all your work so late at night. Five years!" "They've been a good five years, Nancy. We've learned a lot. We have a family. The years haven't been wasted." "But...." "Look, honey, keep the letter from Sister Mortensen. Read it again. I know it would be hard on you. Particularly with having the baby. But before you tum the idea down cold, think about it, for me." Nancy put the letter down on her desk. At the side of it lay a record of Alfred Gilbert's Ballet Techniques. This was one decision that was going to require more than just thinking. (To be continued) SEPTEMBER COURAGE Kathryn Kay September is the time of mellowing, of realizing summer's shine is past, the time when April green is yellowing to rusty gold. Which leaf will be the last? Now dew and early frost are interchanging; chaff is discarded, saving future seed. September is a month for rearranging the dreams that I shall keep for winter need. Like mountains, strong for constant weathering, 1, too, can face the lashing of the storm, the tawny cliffs and I, togethering, - will last. Wrapped in my dreams I shall be warm. In this, a month of joy-remembering, 1 can be brave in knowing Junes must fade, for faith and I have been Septembering so many autumns I am not afraid. In fall new hope is found to make hearts sing, in its own way, September can be spring! 659 EDITORIAL Volume 54 September 1967 Number 9 Belle S. Spafford, President Wi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Hi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor W@ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Miidred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 660 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous "Hold Up Your Light" ¢« About 2500 years ago, Lehi, in describing his vision of the tree, wrote ''there arose a mist of darkness; yea, even an exceeding great mist of darkness,"' and he told of those who had ''wandered off and were lost'' (I Nephi, 8:23). Mists of darkness today blind those who are heedless and who put their trust in the things of this world. The mists of darkness cover the widespread immorality, the evils of tobacco and alcohol, the use of destructive drugs, the disregard for the laws of the land. Pernicious influences reach into the very homes to tempt the young, from their childhood days. Latter-day Saints have been warned since 1833, and were given this warning '"'in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days."' The influence of these men is exemplified by the revealing remark of one mother who, on learning that her son was smoking, confided, ''Well, terrible as it is, I'm grateful it was tobacco and not drugs.'' She knew, however, that often one leads to the other. Mothers must be on the alert everlastingly, and the surest way is to be with their children to guide them in righteousness and observe their activities. It is not enough to gather a family together once or twice a week. Either the father or the mother should be in the home and know where the children go, know when they go, and when they return. It is heartwarming for a; mother always to hear a child call, ''Mother where are you?'' as he enters the home with the certainty that she will answer, and then to have every child feel the security of the expected presence of at least one of the parents in the evenings. As teenagers go about their daily activities, the way to destruction stretches on every side, broad and wide before them. A wise mother will instruct her children of the warning of the Savior, ''for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, which leadeth to destruction, and many there be who go in thereat' (3 Nephi, 14:13). To the teenager this broad way may beckon alluringly, with darkened sidepaths. A disregard for Christ's teachings is commonplace today. Sports and recreation so favorably viewed, invite breaking the Sabbath. The cars give a license for teenagers to pursue their own desires. Opportunities for experimenting with destructive substances are thrust upon the youth. The pursuit of earning money for worthwhile endeavors is changed to earning money to keep a car running. False values guide too many choices in spite of parental teachings; moreover, many ways which seem not too far apart from the straight way in the beginning, diverge widely as they are pursued, and safety lies only in turning back at once. President George Albert Smith warned Church members always to stay on the Lord's side of the line and never to step over into the devil's territory. '"'For where 'your treasure is, there will your heart be also' (Mait. 6:21). Mothers need to discern what is the treasure of each child. A mother whose daughter had lost her virtue said, ''But she is a good girl, she always goes to Sunday School."" Teachings need to be internalized. Only as this is realized will a child set a straight course when removed from the home influence. Away from the wide and broad way to destruction is that straight gate and narrow way which leads unto life, of which is written ''few there be that find it'' (3 Nephi, 14:14). Teenagers need to know that the narrow way requires earnest and persistent struggle to keep on it, but they may know, too, that an iron rod will guide them if they will cling to it. Today is the time for mothers to open their eyes to the pitfalls lying in wait for their children and to exert the influence of a righteous mother. President McKay, our prophet today, says that the noblest calling in the world is that of a mother. The Lord said to all, ''Therefore, hold up your light that it may shine unto the world. Behold I am the light which ye shall hold up—that which ye have seen me do"' (3 Nephi, 18:24). Parents who hold up their lights have entered the strait gate and are persisting along the narrow way which is the best way to light their children along it. —M. C. S. 661 IN MEMORIAM a ALTA HANSEN TAYLOR December 17, 1905 — July 6, 1967 Alta Hansen Taylor, wife of Henry D. Taylor, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away July 6, 1967, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Anders K. And Amelia Heppler Hansen, and was born in Richfield, Utah. Sister Taylor was a graduate of Brigham Young University, in English. She married Elder Taylor in the Salt Lake Temple on December 26, 1929. They have four sons.: While her husband served as president of the California Mission from 1955 to 1958, Sister Taylor directed Relief Society work, managed the mission home, and assisted her husband. Sister Taylor has given valued service to Relief Society over the years in ward and stake positions and in the mission field. Her gracious spirit has endeared her to the Relief Society women with whom she has served. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Taylor and the family members. May the beautiful life and blessed memory of Alta Hansen Taylor be a continuing blessing to them.