[Vol54 | September 1967 | Page 239 | Fiction | Caroline Hepworth, Gridley, California, Makes | ]
[Caroline Hepworth, Gridley, California, Makes]

That everdirecting and restraining influence implanted during the first years of his childhood lingers with him, and, as perfume clings to the fading rose, permeates his thoughts and memory throughout life. Beauty, modesty, sincerity, sympathy, cheerfulness, reverence, and many other sublime virtues must be hers whose subtle and benign influence is such a potent factor in the progress and destiny of the human race. September 1967 THE HOME A home in which unity, mutual helpfulness, and love abide is just a bit of heaven on earth. Most gratefully and humbly, I cherish the remembrance that never once as a lad in the home of my youth did I ever see one instance of discord between father and mother. Harmony, good will, concord and mutual understanding are virtues to be fostered in every home. Example is more potent than precept. Parents have the duty to be what they would have their children become in regard to courtesy, sincerity, temperance, and courage to do right at all times. Home-building is an art. At first thought some might object to the word art in connection with home-building. However, the adaptation of knowledge and skill to the building of a beautiful home is the highest of attainments. I By the art of home-building, I mean the inculcating in the lives of children a nobility of soul that leads them; instinctively to love the beautiful, the genuine, the virtuous, and as instinctively to turn from the ugly, the spurious, and the vile. In the art of home-building there should be manifest ' the work and skill of two artists, the father and the mother. If these work at cross purposes, the result of ( their efforts is frequently failure. If they work harmoniously, each supplying what the other needs as they. Daily work upon their living creations, the result will likely be boys and girls who will be a credit and an adornment, not a blight or a curse, to humanity. PERSONAL VIRTUES Appreciation is a great virtue; and if husbands and wives expressed it more frequently in our homes, wives would be happier, and husbands would probably be more kind. Self-control on the part of governing children: I think the children should be properly directed and controlled, not permitted to run around without any limitation to their actions as they affect other members of the household. Do I mean that you should be cruel to that child? No! It is unnecessary. But it means that when you say "no," you mean what you say.

(Excerpts from "Secrets of a Happy Life' by David O. McKay, compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay, and "Pathways of Happiness" by David O. McKay, compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay.) 646 QyY 000000000000 000000) YYQR RY YVIQVQOYQVoRQQ000 7 QV i OTN "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star" Relief Society remembers its heritage and looks forward to a multiplication of its blessings in many nations. 9° pp PROP FP OPO PpP PP oO o? D dD Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor, The Relief Society Magazine ¢ Whatever season may mark the beginning of the "Relief Society Year," and whether the time be autumn in the Northern Hemisphere or a resuming of regular meetings in the southern lands— whatever be the climate or the meeting place, Relief Society is a continuing blessing. The worldwide sisterhood is destined, by prophetic vision, and by a sacred foretelling, to stand as direction and guidance, as comfort and inspiration to the women of many nations, for "this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth...." In December of 1867, in the mountain-rimmed valley of the Great Salt Lake, President Brigham Young instructed the bishops in the new settlements of "Deseret,"' to organize Relief Societies on a permanent basis; and at the April conference, 1868, he "repeated the requisition, extending it to all the settlements, calling upon the sisters to enter into organizations, not only for the relief of the poor, but for the accomplishment of every good and noble work." President Young called. Upon Eliza R. Snow, a woman of spiritual strength and great influence among the daughters of Zion, to assist the bishops in the work of organization. Accordingly, Sister Snow, already appointed as President of Relief Society, and her two Counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, with seven other "leading sisters," began visiting the wards and settlements, renewing a priceless heritage to the women who remembered Nauvoo, and to those other sisters, more recently converted to the Church, who would be equally responsive to an organization of their very own. In 1868, when the far-reaching commission was given to Eliza R. Snow and her assistants, twentyfour years had passed since the day when Sister Snow, as secretary, had recorded the minutes of the last official meeting in Nauvoo, Illinois—on March 16, 1844. That meeting concluded two years of formal gatherings of 647 Ai 00 ittttttti NAO AA AMAA IITA September 1967 the sisters in the river city, where they had heard the voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith organizing the only auxiliary of the Church established during his lifetime. After much trouble and tragedy, the westward-bound wagons rolled out of Nauvoo—February 1846—and crossed the winterbound Mississippi River. And what of Relief Society in that interim of exodus, before the first wagons, and the. Thousands that followed, were circled in the fortress of the mountain valley? The sisters, instructed and experienced in the ways of compassion, tenderly ministered to those who were ill and those who were' hungry and those who sorrowed in the separation from their homes and loved ones. Small groups of sisters met together, as time and the waiting periods of the caravans would permit, and often they sang together, their voices echoing across the desolate plains, as they had once been heard in the river city, where now their homes stood desolate. Many members of the early organizations sang of their faith in the restored gospel, as the journey across the plains proceeded— "Tho' hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day... All is well... All is well." Testimonies by firelight were given, and those women whose faces looked to the west, remembered Relief Society—its precepts and its practices. At Winter Quarters, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who had been second counselor in Nauvoo, conducted a few meetings, wherein the sisters rejoiced and expressed gratitude for their heritage. 648 In the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, there were formal organizations of Relief Society as early as 1851, only four years after the coming of the first wagons—and informal meetings, sometimes referred to as "get-togethers," even before that time. An organization and a way of life had been so firmly implanted in the hearts of the sisters that there could be no forgetting, even during times of great hardship, when providing food and shelter seemed to be of utmost concern. In the years 1852-53-54-55-56-57, and into the next decade, the organizations in the valley grew and prospered and became a light and a beacon and a direction for the women. Some of the groups featured a multitude of handicrafts, and others, even in that -early time, studied "all the books available," and "hired a learned gentleman to give stereoscopic lectures, showing the scenery of the world."" In some organizations there was organ music and. A "vast singing of the sisters." In the meetings, testimonies witnessing the blessings of Relief Society became sounds of heartfelt rejoicing. By 1858, Relief Society had been organized in ten Salt Lake City wards, and in Ogden, Provo, Spanish Fork, and Nephi. Along the foothills and in the green valleys that fringed the Wasatch Mountains, Relief Society flourished, and some of the sisters said one to another, "It is almost like Nauvoo." But there were hundreds of women who had never attended a Relief Society meeting, and in the far-flung settlements, only a very few had seen President Emma Smith preside in Nauvoo —and very few had seen the hand of the first secretary—Eliza R. Snow—move across the page as she wrote immortal words for the first record books; in the outlying settlements, only a few had heard the Prophet's counsel. During that. Year of 1868, when the organizing sisters traveled the "tolerable good roads" and the "tolerable poor roads" to the faroff villages, events were moving towards a time of closer communication among the organizations already formed and those groups of sisters ready for cooperation and a joining of hands and-hearts in the noble work that only women can do. In 1868, twenty-six years had passed since the glorious seedtime of Relief Society. A girl child born during the last years of Nauvoo would now be a woman. Grown, very likely a mother and the mistress of a-home "far away in the West." The Church was thirtyeight years old; twenty-one years had passed since the first wagons had rumbled through a cleft in the mountains and those of the first wagon trains saw their future home—"'far away in the West." It was in a time of sending missionaries by the hundreds 'to the nations of Europe and the islands of the sea; it was a time of temple building—the saints, remembering the former sacred edifice in Kirtland, Ohio, and the fallen temple in Nauvoo, Illinois, had laid the cornerstone of the. Salt Lake Temple, and in other settlements, it was said—'Soon there will be a temple on this hill." It was eight years after the last of the sorely-tried but triumphant handcart companies had entered the Valley. The springtime of "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star" 1868 was one year before the Golden Spike, made of. Twentythree twenty-dollar goldpieces, had linked the Mississippi River with the Pacific Coast in historic pageantry at Promontory Point, Utah. It was another year of grasshoppers in the fields and "cloud-watching" vigils for farmers who prayed for rain. There was a meetinghouse in Provo, eighty-one feet. Long and fortyseven feet wide, having a tower eighty feet high. In the year that the 'leading sisters" began their ''far-off'' visits, the settlements, many of them "pioneered" in the early sixties, were still in the "first shelter" stage of building—log cabins, small adobe houses made of clay from nearby hills, dugouts in the hillsides. The story is told that once, in the sixties, when the apostle George A. Smith was traveling by twilight to a "southern settlement," suddenly he saw the head of a man appear out of the ground in front of the carriage, and the man called out in an excited voice: "Stop! Stop! Don't drive over my house!"' So, into the villages bordering the streams, into the small hamlets perched precariously on the hillsides, into the habitations that were only clusters of cabins, even to the "smallest places that could be counted," President Eliza R.