ELIZABETH M'CUNE Autobiography of Elizabeth Grace McCune Taken From Her Journal By Her Daughter Mabel McCune Ure I was born on the 27th of July, 1843,. In Liverpool, England. My parents, Isaac Grace and Elizabeth Williams, were also born in Liverpool. They were married in 1842, and were both members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. At the time of my birth, my father, a master ship-builder, was foreman of the Jones Ship Yard, in Liverpool. My mother had a very beautiful voice for singing, and it was through the "Mormon" elders' singing on the street that my parents were attracted and they first heard the gospel. I was seven years old when my parents decided to emigrate te Utah, and I remember distinctly going on board the ship Ellen, ELIZABETH GRACE McCUNE 323 as she lay at the dock, not far from our home. We set sail January 7, 1851. Many of our relatives and friends came to wish us "God speed!" We had been on our way only a few days when our ship met with an accident. I think another ship ran into us, but we were near the coast of Wales, and our captain turned around and went into Cardigan Bay. I recall my father's being put over the side of the ship on a plank with ropes and his working on the damaged part of the ship. In a few days the repairs were completed, and we started on our journey again. There were many passengers on the ship with us, all going to Utah. Our company was in charge of Joseph D. Cummings and Elder Dunn. Our family consisted of father, mother, my father's aged mother, Grandma Grace, myself and two younger sisters, Margaret and Annette, the baby. After many days at sea, an epidemic of measles developed among the children and my baby sister, Annette, was one of the victims. She died, and I shall never forget how they sewed her up in canvas with some heavy weights at her feet and dropped her into the sea. I remember seeing her floating in the water a long time before she sank, and I ran down to the cabin where my parents were and told them of it. How angry my father was! After eleven long weeks on the water we arrived in New Orleans and went on board a river steamer. We were many days going up the Mississippi. A new pink dress that my mother had made for me was blown overboard into the river, and I was broken-hearted. We finally arrived at St. Louis, where my father bought his wagons. Then we took steamer for Kanesville, the outfitting point, at that time, for the Saints, now called Council Bluffs. We remained here for several days preparing for our long journey across the plains. My father had three yoke of cattle, one of which was a yoke of milking cows. One evening we stopped at a camp, and before father could get the cattle unhitched from the wagon, I crept in between them and milked one of the cows. Father was very upset and said I might have been kicked to death. My mother made me a large apron, and I used to walk in head of-the wagons and gather buffalo chips for our fire. Buffalo were very plentiful; the prairies were black with them. I was too young to remember many of the details of the trip, but my father has told me that we arrived in Salt Lake Valley soon after October conference and camped. In what was known as Big Field. After a week's rest, we started for Parowan, but when we reached Salt Creek (now Nephi) my Aunt Margaret Davis, in getting out of her wagon, sprained her ankle. My folks and those with us decided to remain in Salt Creek. They were all tired of traveling, having been on the way since January 7, and it was now the 17th of November, 1851., 
 Salt Creek, or Nephi, had just been settled. Charles Sperry, Israel. Hoyt, T. B. Foot, Ziniri Baxter had been there to cut hay, but they had gone back to Salt Lake for their families. Our family and the Davis family were the first families on the ground. My sister Margaret and cousin Charlotte Davis and myself were the first white children in Nephi. My sister Harriet Grace Pyper (now living in Salt Lake City), was the first white girl and the ELIZABETH GRACE M'CUNE Four. Years of age second child born in Nephi. My father took up a city lot and some farming land and helped to build log houses for all that came. Our own was completed Christmas day. We moved into it that morning, and with great joy we anticipated our Christmas dinner which was cooking in the open fire-place. The chimney was built of frozen adobes and just as we were ready for dinner, the whole thing came tumbling into the room. My cheerful little ELIZABETH GRACE McCUNE 325 mother moved everything back into the wagon until a new chimney could be built. In the Spring of 1852, the Walker Indian War broke out, and we had to move our homes and form a fort with them. The men had to go in companies and take their guns to work in the fields. Many new settlers joined us. The Indians continued to trouble us until President Brigham Young came down and made peace with them. At the same time he advised the people to build a wall aroiind three square blocks as a protection against the Indians.. This was done. (Until very recently, portions of this wall were still standing. ), " In 1857, when the U. S. Government sent an army out to exterminate the "Mormons," my father, with many others, was sent out to Echo Canyon. I had learned the art of spinning yarn, and I was kept busy spinning our wool. Father had a small flock of sheep, sufficient to furnish wool for all our clothing. Just a few months before my brother Isaac was born, father built a story and a half adobe house. I helped him haul the adobes, handling every one of them twice. I also helped father in the grain and hay fields, part of the time barefoot. In the Spring of 1858, when the army was permitted to come in, the people from Salt Lake and the northern settlements moved south, a number of them coming to Nephi. Among them was a family from Farmington, originally from Calcutta, India, by the name of McCune, consisting of father, mother and four sons. The eldest of them, Henry F., became my husband, Christmas Eve, 1861. In those days people could not go to the endowment house at will, but were called by wards. We were married at home by my husband's father, Dr. Mathew McCune, and it was - not until two years had passed that we were called to the endowment house. About forty of our friends and relatives witnessed our marriage and remained for the banquet and dance which lasted until daylight. Our wedding presents from our parents were as follows: From Father McCune, a pair of three-year-old steers and a heifer calf. From Mother McCune, a piece of white Indian silk for my wedding dress, and also a beautiful necklace, brooch, ear rings, and bracelet, which were brought from India. My parents gave us a heifer calf, a sheep, and three chairs. My lover husband gave me a gold locket which he had purchased in New York, and a pure gold chain that he had brought from India. We went to housekeeping in two little rooms, one log and the other adobe. We had no table, but my husband had a huge old black trunk or chest, which served very well. Our beadstead was an old home-made one with a straw tick, and our cooking apparatus was the open fire-place. We were so perfectly happy that our humble little home seemed like paradise. Our first dishes 
 consisted of two home-made plates and two cups and saucers. After the Indians had become somewhat peaceful, we moved out of the fort. My husband took up a lot on the banks of Salt Creek, a beautiful stream running through the center of the town, and here we built our home. We planted a row of young peach trees which my father-in-law had budded and given to us, and which were growing nicely. Black hawk, the notorious Indian chief who later caused so much trouble and bloodshed, was camped on our lot with some of his renegades. With nothing but devilment for an excuse, he pulled up every tree and decamped.; In the month of September, 1864, President Brigham Young came to Nephi on his way to Dixie. He asked that the Nephi Brass Band accompany him. My husband was a member of this band. — and so of course he had to go. While he was away, I with my two little babies, moved back into the fort for the winter. The following Summer, 1865, the Black Hawk Indian War broke out, and our home being out of the fort and east of the town, caused us to be in constant fear, especially at night when my husband had to take his turn at standing guard. Four men were appointed to each post, three would lie down in their quilts, and one would watch for four hours, when he was relieved by another man. One night while my husband was standing guard, one of the brethren came to tell me to run for my life to the fort, as the Indians were coming. I ran with my two little ones as fast as I could, little Harry was not three years old and baby Grace not yet two. I was expecting another little one in a very few weeks. When I reached the fort I was very ill, and in a few hours my baby boy was born. He lived but a few hours, due to the terrible fright I had experienced. The years rolled on, and while my babies were young, I could not take a very active part in Church affairs. My husband was very active both in Church duties and the home dramatics, which was an important part of our social life in early days. However, as the older children developed, they assisted with the younger ones, and I finally accepted the position of counselor in the presidency of the Primary. I held this position for a number of years. When a child, I was given a patriarchal blessing, and one of the promises was that I should be an instrument in the hand of God in doing much good among the sick. This was literally fulfilled. For a great many years I was called upon to assist in taking care of the sick, especially little children. I loved the work, and I know that on numberless occasions I was an instrument in God's hand. At one time an epidemic of diphtheria threatened to destroy our little city. My own little daughter was at the point of death, but the Lord was merciful to me, for I was enabled to go from house to house assisting the mothers in caring for their ELIZABETH GRACE McCUNE 327 afflicted ones. While there were many deaths, a great many more were saved. For fifteen years I held the office of Stake President in the Y. L. M. I. A. This work among the young people I truly loved with all my soul, and I feel that my sisters all loved me, for I] became ''Aunt Lizzie" to the whole stake. One of the greatest trials of my life came in February, 1906, when we decided to sell the old home that we had been forty years in building, and move to Ogden, Utah. Most of the children had married and we knewsthat it would be but a few short years until all of them would leave the old nest and we would be left alone. With heavy hearts we parted from loved ones and friends, but it was just no time at all until we were settled in our new home and making wonderful new friends. I immediately affiliated myself with the Fifth Ward Relief Society, and in a very short time I had that good feeling of "belonging" once more. In October, 1906, my beloved sister Margaret Jenkins died of pneumonia in Nephi. One little country street is all that ever separated us from the time she was born. In August, 1908, when the old Weber stake was divided into three, I was chosen and set apart as second counselor to Sister L. W. Shurtliff in the stake Presidency of the Relief Society of the Weber stake. Sister Herrick was chosen as first counselor. This was a work of great joy to me. It would not be possible to find anywhere a more splendid or loyal band of workers or friends than I found here. It was not long until I seemed to know and love the whole of Weber stake. I continued in this work until my husband was called to labor at the Bureau of Information. For a while he went back and forth. Then finally he was called to labor in the temple, and we knew that once more we must leave our nice home and friends and make new ones. This is not so hard, loved ones, when once you have learned the secret of it. Make yourself known to the ward in which you move and then go to work earnestly. In January, 1915, we moved to Salt Lake, and for seven years T enjoyed the privilege of working in the temple along with my husband. This work was a constant joy to me, and I have received. The blessed assurance that our work has not been in vain. Last year, on December 14, 1924, my life-long companion lover and friend left me for a little time. He has gone on to prepare one more beautiful home, and I have given him just one year to come for me. How wonderfully has our heavenly Father blessed us! Eleven loving children, forty-seven grandchildren, and twenty great-: grandchildren here to comfort and bless us, and two sons waiting to receive us there. Had my lover been permitted to remain just 
 two weeks longer, it would have been sixty-four years since we commenced life together.: rt ee I should like to add that my dear mother died December 23, 1925, just one year and a few days after dear father's passing. Surely they were blessed, but more surely have we children been blessed, and truly I thank God for having been so nobly born.