[Vol2 | February 1915 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Home | Title: Home Gardening]

Home Gardening. 'There is seed-time and harvest time;" and now is the time to prepare for seed-time. It is very important that you have good seeds to plant. It is the poorest and cheapest economy in the world to plant poor seeds and expect good results in return. Therefore, let us say to you once more, buy the very best seeds on the market. If you have not saved seeds from your own gardens, write at once to some reputable house, get a catalogue and order from them, or some one whom you know to be reliable. By forming neighborhood clubs, you will be able to order a greater variety of larger seeds, and also secure better prices, because of buying in much quantities. In each town or village, there is usually more than one who have made a study of plant life, and can be of great assistance in recommending* to you the kinds of flowers and vegetables most suitable for your own climate and soil; also by referring to the bulletins sent you last year. We wish we could cause sufficient enthusiasm in each section of the country to have a public gathering called to consider the best methods to adopt in securing and utilizing all vacant property, in city or towns. Then, plan to have all this property cultivated, planting either vegetables or flowers, thus creating a spirit of work and pride with the town boys and girls; give them something to occupy their minds and teach them the value of home grown vegetables, and let them realize a very substantial income from a well-tended, cultivated plot of ground. They may be able to supply the town hotel with fresh onions, radishes, beets, carrots, lettuce, etc. Put in a few rows of parsley, early pepper cress, English chives, etc. All these things are hardy and can be planted early and will bring good prices. We often hear the question, "What can I do to earn a by few dollars?" We think we can help you to solve this question our suggestions in this lesson. We must not forget that flowers, too, play a very important part in our garden work to be planned by father and mother, the work executed by brother, and the products of their labor cooked and cared for by sister, thus household, securing the co-operative assistance from each member of the all interested in one common cause, and working for better conditions for the individual, home and town. There are hundreds of women bread-winners who earn money by growing vegetables and flowers to sell. They make it pay, why can't we? to our patrons and readers. Circular No. 16, We recommend to our patrons and readers Circular No. 16, prepared by the Utah Agricultural College, on "Better Seeds," application.