[Vol2 | February 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. FEBRUARY, 1915. No. 2. There is no one fact more deeply impressed upon the mind of a philosopher than the combined independence and helplessness of man. His will and Human his partial control of the forces about him, makes Independence. him supremely independent of most earthly conditions; while his natural human limitations make him blindly dependent upon his fellow men and upon the natural forces around him. He can do many great and marvelous things ? build ships, fly in the air, and speak around the earth, and yet, how helpless he is to prevent death or disaster which come to his enterprises by the flit of an eye-lash, or the point of a bodkin. We are told by James (5:16, 17) that "the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much." Divine The power of Elias with the heavens was so great, Aid to that through one sincere prayer, rain ceased for Man. three years; and through his second appeal, the earth was visited plentifully by the rains of heaven. The power of faith is not always manifested in a sudden response to ardent prayer; it is more often shown in the persistent clinging to that prayer, until the desire shall have plowed its deep channel through the convolutions of the human brain, 
 thus becoming a part of the individual. Such persisting faith makes a pathway over which the desired object may travel from heaven to earth. Such was the powerful faith of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt, and Pharaoh believed him through seven years of plenty. How much greater the faith and endurance of one frail woman of modern times have been in the mission of Grain Saving, which was given to President Emmeline B. Wells by Brigham Young over forty years ago! It is not so much that the Relief Society has saved millions of bushels of grain in the last forty years; nor that the California sufferers, the Chinese starving millions, The and our own poor were aided in times of want by Lesson this wonderful movement; it is not so much that Taught. one tender-hearted woman has proved to God and man that she can exercise persistent faith through a long life of disheartening conditions and through years of struggle and sacrifice; it is not that women have gleaned and saved, have bought and sold, have listened and obeyed; nay, it is all these combined which make of the Grain-saving Movement one of the most unique enterprises in this Church. In saving grain, many a woman has saved her own soul through thrift and obedience to the Priesthood. Little children have been taught lessons, not only of thrift and economy, but that larger lesson of obedience to counsel which has grown out of the obedience of mother to the Relief Society President, of Relief Society President to the Prophet of the Lord, and in and through this the obedience of the child to the mother, and of the wife to the husband. We may count the bushels of grain. We may number the years, we may value the wheat in terms of money and weight, but who shall estimate the power and glory of this matchless mission to President Emmeline B. Wells, and her associates, in the Relief Society of this Church? Hats off, ye men, everywhere; stand with bowed heads, ye women, while the little children crowd about your knees to listen in reverent awe to the simple story of a woman who went out harvesting, to glean and to save the wheat