VOL. XX SEPTEMBER, 1933 No. 9
EDITORIAL
The International Council of Women
THE International Council of Women had its beginning in Washington, D. C., in 1888 at a jubilee meeting to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the woman's rights movement on this continent. Its impetus came from a group of pioneer suffragists which included Susan B. Anthony, May Wright Sewall, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Frances E. Willard. The Relief Society and Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association are listed among its charter members and have ever been deeply interested in its welfare.
THE Council is composed of twenty-eight national and three state and local organizations with a combined membership of 5,000,000. Through its membership with the National Council of Women it is affiliated with thirty-three foreign groups. It disseminates information and interchanges ideas between its member societies through the following committees: Child Welfare, Economics, Education, Industrial Relations, International Relations, Letters, Motion Pictures, Music, Penology, Permanent Peace, Public Health and Social Hygiene.
When it was known that there would be a Century of Progress Exposition held in Chicago this summer, the Council decided to call an International Congress to consider the question of "Our Common Cause?Civilization" and to discuss what contribution women can make towards a new world order in which there shall be security and opportunity for all. The Council published a volume, "Angels and Amazons," written by Inez Haynes Irwin, which in a dramatic way gives a comprehensive story of the work of women's organizations for the past 100 years.
IN the Hall of Social Science at the Exposition the Council has an exhibit showing the achievements of women for the past 100 years. The sixty foot mural showing "Woman's march toward education, temperance, peace and the entry of women in professional and business fields" gives a wonderful story in a beautiful way. The historical mementos of women leaders attracts attention. We are glad to have Amy Brown Lyman serve as third vice-president of the Council and appreciate the courtesy extended to President Robison who had the opportunity to ably preside at one of the sessions of the Congress. We were glad to see the space devoted to the activities of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. In the three large books that were on display in the Hall of Social Science, showing the part women have played in Education, Social Service and Recreation during the past century.
One of the unique features of the Congress was the contribution the Relief Society made through the Singing Mothers. Their beautiful program was broadcasted from the Salt Lake Tabernacle and was listened to in the Court of Honor at the Exposition. Many compliments were received from the officers of the National Council and foreign guests who enjoyed the lovely numbers.
Each of the member organizations had the opportunity of portraying its work in booths in the large Convention Hall at the Palmer House. The Relief Society showed by posters its four outstanding departments: Social Welfare, Education, Health and Civic Activity.
An unusually large delegation of women from our Church organizations attended this Congress. President Louise Y. Robison, Counselors Amy Brown Lyman, Julia Alleman Child, Secretary Julia A. F. Lund and Mary C. Kimball, Editor of the Relief Society Magazine were there. President Ruth May Fox, Counselor Clarissa A. Beesley, of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, attended, as also did Superintendent May Anderson and First Assistant Superintendent Isabella S. Ross of the Primary.
SIXTY FOOT MURAL IN THE HALL OF SOCIAL SCIENCE Showing Woman's March Toward Education, Temperance, Peace, and her Entry in Professional Business Fields
EDITORIAL
Dr. James E. Talmage
IN the passing from the earth life of Doctor James E. Talmage of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, the Church loses one of its most brilliant sons, one of its most able advocates, one of its most fluent writers and one of its most convincing speakers. In the 70 years he tabernacled on earth, judged by achievements, he lived many times three score and ten years for work was with him a passion. From early morn until late at night with almost no intermission he was at his desk writing and going over manuscript submitted for his criticism. He allowed nothing to interfere with his Church duties. Often he was called upon to do scientific work and might have made a great deal of money thereby, but he felt his time, his talents, his every effort must be devoted to the Church and his high calling as an apostle. While he was always willing to do service for others, he sought no favors for himself. He has made some of the finest contributions to Church literature and. For all time he will be remembered through the splendid things he has written. To his devoted wife and children our hearts go out in sympathy. May they rejoice in his achievements and emulate his many virtues. May peace come to them and may time heal their broken hearts.