The Evil Spirit By Annie Wells Cannon SATURDAY afternoon and four o'clock! Anxiously, almost tremulously, Mrs. Simpson had been watching the clock for the last two hours,; All morning, she and her two young daughters, Eva and Lutie, had been busy with household tasks. The house fairly shone with brightness. The odor of fresh baked bread and cake, spiced ham and other delicacies, testified to the preparation for the Sabbath and the holiday that was to follow. A light lunch had been prepared and eaten. The mother and daughters, neatly and prettily dressed were waiting for Daddy to come with the car to take them to town for a little necessary shopping. While one is busy time passes quickly but to be anxiously waiting and watch the hands of the clock mark the passing hours and note how time is lost, is agony. The mother courageously tried to keep the girls' minds off the clock by discussing plans and making lists of the intended purchases. "First we must have one of those pretty paper luncheon sets with all the accessories, then new shoes for both of you, and I hope silk hose as well." "Oh, mamma," said pretty Lutie, "you must have a new light dress, they are advertised so cheap and we want you to look as nice as any mother there." The sound of a truck driving into the lane, interrupted the list making. The burly driver called out "Simpsons live here?' "Yes, but you surely have the wrong address we are not expecting that kind of a delivery," indignantly replied the mother. "It's the right address, all right, I guess it's a surprise for you. The boss said to put some bottles on the ice for'evening." Mrs. Simpson, too stunned and pained to answer, saw the man place the two large cases of beer on the back porch. Regaining her composure, she signed the delivery check and began to consider how to meet the situation, ""What does it mean?" asked Lutie, "It means, young lady, answered the driver, Common sense and beer have come back and your Dad wants to celebrate." "I will answer my daughter's questions, you attend to your own affairs," said Mrs. Simpson as the man with an ugly shrug and grunt turned and sullenly drove away. Eva, the older and more quiet of the two girls, touched her mother's cheek with a soft kiss and said, "Lutie and I will put this out of sight before Alfred comes home. He will be so shocked to know we have this in the home and he just home from his mission." The first impulse of all three was to empty the containers down the drain pipe but a certain fear of the father's attitude held them back. Afterwards they would have given worlds if they had followed that impulse for a lifetime of sorrow and suffering might have been averted. Thus often a fear or dread of the immediate result thwarts the purpose of our better natures. Just as this task was finished the father drove in, gay, smiling, almost exuberant. There was a faint smell of beer on his breath but otherwise he was natural and full of apologies for keeping them waiting. There was no time for explanations. No, he was not hungry, he had hada THE EVIL SPIRIT sandwich in town and they must hurry to reach the stores before closing time. There might have been a scene, reproaches and a refusal to go but no mention was made of the long wait or the unwelcome delivery as they hurriedly drove away. In the excitement of the purchases even the pretty dress for mother was selected, for Daddy was more than liberal today, the incident of the hour before was forgotten, except in the mind of the mother whose intuition seemed to tell her an evil presence had entered her home to destroy its peace. Silently she prayed on the way home to be directed how to combat this deadly thing, how to persuade her husband, whose gentleness and tenderness she so much appreciated, to realize the seriousness of this matter. Alfred was already waiting as they entered the home. This only son, a tall, handsome youth, with the ascetic look of the thoughtful student, was the particular pride of the family. The mother told the girls to make ready the evening supper while she went out to the garage to speak to their father. She begged him not to mention the beer before Alfred and said they must talk the matter over later. He touched her lightly on the chin and said, 'Look here, mother, that's only a nice refreshing _drink, as harmless as a baby's milk, the new 'three point two' and I surely hope you have some in the cooler now." "I would much prefer you wouldn't have it, dear, and please don't waste our means buying that stuff, there are other finer ways to spend your money." Her pleading had no effect, he laughed at her qualms and insisted it was good for them. She perceived it was useless to argue and feeling powerless to resist she tried to believe that her own 529 teaching, example, and prayers might eventually win out in the struggle she saw facing them. HE subject of conversation during the dinner was prohibition and legalizing the sale of beer, finally Alfred ventured to say, "Surely, father, you do not approve of our having it in the house and drinking it ourselves?" "Certainly, son," he answered, "I sent down two cases today and had your mother done as I wanted you might have had a nice cool drink with your supper." "Thank you, I trust mother will continue not to do as you want, water is cool enough for me," and the boy flushed as he rose from the table and walked outside. "The young prig," the father said as he sent Lutie to bring a bottle just to show them all how harmless it was. For a moment the girl hesitated then did as required but Eva asked to be excused and followed her brother outside. Thus started the first rift in an almost perfect home life, a rift like a dagger at the heart of all. "Harmless," thought the mother, "when even the mention brings discord it must itself be evil." The father poured out a glass for himself, his wife, and Lutie. Neither of the latter touched it, and he drank it all himself and spent the rest of the evening sullen and silent. Alfred had intended asking for the car to go out for the evening but instead telephoned and broke the engagement. The girls after helping their mother put things in order went to their room. There was no singing, no evening prayer in the home this night but silence as though a sorrow had befallen. Shortly Lutie came back and throwing her arms around _her father said, "Thank you, Daddy, 530 for all the new things and please don't be angry with us any more, you know we all love you." Later Alfred came in and apologized for his hasty words and for leaving the table so abruptly. Never before had these children been rude to their father and the thought of hurting him troubled them. SEVERAL days later Lutie said, "I think you were quite right, Daddy, about that new beer, a lot of people carried it to the picnic and most everybody has it.' "This from little Lutie,'' mused the mother, "surely her father will rebuke her." But to the dismay of all Alfred said, "It is quite true, we have it offered to us everywhere and no one thinks it wrong. Don't you think we have all been rather hard on father?" That night the family glasses were filled with the amber liquid, only the mother and Eva refrained from drinking it. It was regularly served after that and freely offered to friends. HE mother saw the family purse grow smaller, in order to keep up the supply of this obnoxious drink. She complained and argued and wept, but to no avail. She realized that the sweetness and peace, even the comfort of the home was being destroyed, and she was helpless. Her idolized son was not keeping up his church duties, her genial husband was becoming taciturn and careless, her beautiful daughter Lutie was keeping company with a very gay crowd. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ONE night the crash came and all her beautiful dreams and hopes lay crushed. The telephone rang about midnight as she sat reading and waiting for the return of Alfred and Lutie. There had been an auto accident and two young women were seriously injured. The girls' were in the general hospital unconscious, and the young men were being held for drunken driving. The wrecked car had Mr. Simpson's number. It was Eva who had the presence of mind to call a taxi and send her mother to the hospital and her father to the station while she waited and prepared things at home for their return. In the silence and quiet of this stricken home she knelt and prayed for guidance. Then she went straight to the basement and removed every trace of the "three point two" by pouring the liquid down the drain pipe, putting the containers in the garbage can and splitting the cases into kindling wood. In the early morning hours the father returned with a bruised and dazed son, while the mother telephoned from the hospital "both girls may live but Lutie's injuries are so severe she will probably be an invalid for life." After this word came, the father upbraided himself and was prostrate with grief. Eva who had attended to her brother's needs came up to him and gently said, "It was bound to come, father, be brave and we will all help each other again, the evil spirit has departed from this house." "On this earth of ours there are but few souls that can withstand the dominion of the soul that has suffered itself to become beautiful." —Maurice Maeterlink.