GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 451
For trees have limbs and climb and grow, And trees can PINE and gasp, And trees get scared when tempests blow And shake like QUAKING Asp.
Some trees are grand?like mighty Oaks And grown themselves for use, And some are POPULAR, same as folks, And some are trim and SPRUCE.
Trees seem like mothers when they hide The birds and nests so high, And tuck the soft leaves all outside And rock them when they cry.
Trees build my home so snug and fine, And furnish it complete? They keep me cool in summer time, In winter give me heat.
The lovely fruit, the maple sap, The nuts that fall for me? There's scarce a thing that's worth a rap That wasn't born a tree.
Lost in the woods, so damp and raw, And wandering in the storm, I'd hunt an ELDER like my pa And FIRS to keep me warm.
And so I never think at all That trees are logs of wood, But just like people fine and tall And shedding down their good.
In the sketch furnished by her mother, she tells us that she is very fond of aged people and has written many poems devoted to them. "The Faith of My Fathers" is a very good example of this interest.
THE FAITH OF MY FATHERS
I sit at the feet of the old, old folk, The bent and the halt and the grey, And I string the pearls from the good lips spoke, For a learned folk are they.
I fondle the hands of the old, old folk, And a courage new is born, For theirs is the strength of the tempered oak, In the fingers gnarled and worn.


I welcome the smile of the old, old folk, The wrinkled and comely cheer, And proud am I when I invoke The praise of an old compeer.
I look in the eyes of the old, old folk, In the windows dulled and dim, Where vision lightens with master-stroke The sight that is turned to Him.
I follow the wake of the old, old folk, And reap the goodly seed, Over fruited trail that their feet have broke, Where the steps of the fathers lead.
I stand for the faith of the old, old folk, The light of the world to be, I stand for the standards their lives invoke, For their faith is the faith for me!
There is a spirit of reverence and devotion to God in all that she writes. Her poem entitled "Joy" tends to impart joy and no one, we feel, can read it in the spirit in which it is written, without having his or her joy increased.
JOY
The reason for all that lives and dies, For all that moves and feels and breathes, The meaning of earth and of Paradise? Is Joy, the Joy that Truth bequeathes!
The depths, the heights of a soul subdued, The end, the all, the blessedness, The fullness of each Beatitude, Is lo! The promise of happiness.
The rite and rote of philosophy, The ultimo of text and song, Religion's troth to man must be A thing of joy or its theme is wrong.
An angel fell, nay, a God came down To turn the key of mortality, That faith should bide and joy encrown To the furthermost posterity.
And the stars that swung to their glad employ When the earth was new and life was youth, The "Stars of the Dawn" that sang for Joy, Are singing yet at the feet of Truth.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 453
The themes which Mrs. Kleinman makes use of have their roots in the every-day lives of men, women and children, and for that very reason they will make a broad appeal. It is of the people with whom she mingles daily and the people who pass her door that she writes, and from this class she is bound to receive heartfelt thanks and blessings. There are few of our writers who have contributed so consistently and constantly to all of the Church publications for so many years as Bertha Anderson Kleinman. Her mother assures us that it is from the Church publications she has received her best encouragement and for them her best efforts are always reserved. "Her first book was copyrighted and published when she was twenty years of age and represented about one hundred of her maiden-day poems. She has on hand at the present time material for several books and contemplates their production in serial volumes under the titles of 'Friends Like You,' 'Babes Like You,' 'Mothers Like You,' 'Boys Like You,' 'Girls Like You.'" "Asked to name her own favorite poems, Bertha always remarks, 'If it fits the needs of someone, it is my favorite.'"
GRACE INGLES FROST
The sketch of Miss Grace Ingles Frost which we are presenting to our readers was written by her friend Maude Ellen Baggerley, also a poet whose own singing was hushed in death sometime ago. We feel sure that our readers will appreciate this sketch from one intimate with Miss Frost. Grace Ingles Frost, daughter of John Franklin and Elizabeth Grace Mackintosh Frost, was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 24, 1874. Owing to the fact that she very early gave evidence of being an extremely sensitive, nervous child, she was not permitted to enter school until her tenth year. Previous to that time, she received instruction at home; chiefly in the use of the needle. From her mother and grandmother, who were both skillful needle-women, she seems to have inherited an adaptability for such work. At all events, even in her extreme youth, she proved to be a very apt pupil. By her Scotch grandmother, she had been taught very rigidly by the time she reached her seventh year, that "anything worth doing, is worth doing well." A stitch that was not considered perfect, or very nearly so, was never allowed to remain in the child's work. While she sewed her fine seams, she was taught to repeat,


"Whatever you do, Do with your might, For things done by half, Are never done right."
The result of this early discipline is that Grace Ingles Frost has become an expert with the needle. Even her plain sewing is poetry. She has been awarded cash prizes and diplomas for every piece of work that she has exhibited in Salt Lake City and elsewhere. Ever generous with her gifts, she has taught many women to make exquisite laces and embroidery, besides those attending her regular classes; and she has tutored (gratis) numerous students who have been backward in English; thus enabling them to receive coveted degrees. Grace Ingles Frost's formal education was received in Salt Lake City, from Miss Lyde Wells (who conducted a private school); the Collegiate Institute, and our L. D. S. Institutions of learning. She has also taken special work in English at various times, in later years: and has become deeply versed in Theology, which amounts to almost a passion with her. After leaving school Miss Frost became interested in millinery work. For a number of years, she designed and made hats for persons of fastidious fancy in such matters of apparel. Later, she took a course in nursing, passed a perfect examination, and during the years she has practiced has done splendid work. Her grandmother's precepts are too deeply ingrained in her being to permit her to neglect even those things which might seem to another to be trifling details. She believes that seeming trifles are stepping-stones to perfection. In 1908, she was offered the position of Instructor of English Composition and Domestic Arts in a Church High School in Southern Utah. She was forced to refuse this offer, however, because of not being in robust health, and also because its acceptance would necessitate her resignation from other Church duties, in which she was deeply interested. Grace Ingles Frost has been associated with almost every phase of woman's work, in the Church. She became a teacher in Sunday School at an early age and served in that capacity for many years. She has served as instructor in Advanced Religion Class work, as chorister and instructor in the Primary Association, as president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in Waterloo Ward, Granite Stake, and as aide on the Granite Stake Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. In the latter position, she acted as instructor of Theology at the Stake House. Illness or weather or both combined never prevented her from being at her post, nor from being perfectly prepared.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 455
Order and perfection, or at least something very nearly approaching the latter, characterize her work. She always gives her best and gives lavishly. At one time, Miss Frost possessed a beautiful singing voice. She was a member of the Salt Lake Tabernacle and ward choirs, and was also heard in concert work. A severe illness deprived her of the gift of song, but music still lives on in her soul, and she strives to express it, if only in words. Many years, that should have been the best in her life, have been spent as an invalid. Few people have endured the excruciating agony that has been her portion, and few people have won the steadfast friends, who have been ever ready to serve her in her terrible periods of illness. Being deeply religious, the storms of life have apparently never caused her to envy the more fortunate ones about her, however cruelly those storms may have bruised her. In 1910, Miss Frost received a letter from Richard Badger of the Gorham Press, Boston, Mass., stating that he had read a number of her poems in the Young Woman's Journal and that he would like to publish a volume of her verse. To this proposition, Miss Frost replied in the negative. She thanked Mr. Badger for his interest, but assured him that she was not then ready to have a book published. She felt that her work was not sufficiently important to warrant its publication in book form at that time. Miss Frost was quite young when she first began to write prose, but she never submitted any of her work for publication until she attained to her twenty-eighth year. It was due to the suggestion of her cousin, Mahonri Young, the now internationally known sculptor and painter, that she began to express herself in verse. One day, while Mr. Young was visiting at Miss Frost's home, a copy of an Oregon publication, to which she was contributing a series of articles on Utah's natural scenic beauty, was received by her. The paper contained a sketch from her pen entitled, "Brighton by Moonlight." After reading the description, Mr. Young asked Miss Frost why she had never written verse. He said, "Grace, almost everything that you write is poetical prose. All this lacks to make it poetry, is meter. Try verse writing next time." Several days later, four manuscripts were handed to me to read. The suggestion given by Miss Frost's cousin fanned into flame the embers of a desire that had been hers since childhood. She told me later how she prayed that she might be able to write verse and that her prayer had been answered. All she needed was the stimulus that she had received that day.


I persuaded Miss Frost to submit her verses for publication and all were accepted. Since that time, she has, now and then, written a prose article or a short story, but verse is her chosen medium for expression, and through that medium her best work has been done. In all, Grace Ingles Frost is the author of several hundred poems, numerous prose articles, and a number of short stories. Her work has been published chiefly in Utah, but also in Oregon and in Oklahoma. She has been urged, frequently, to send her verses to more distant fields. Her reply has been?"I prefer to be known by my own people and to give them my best work." It is often asserted that women who incline to literary work are not domesticated. This cannot be truthfully said of Miss Frost. She is an immaculate housekeeper and an excellent cook. Among other things, she has shown considerable ability as an amateur painter of exquisite water colors; and she has designed, printed and bound two books by hand. She possesses a wonderful color-sense, which is shown in many of her verses. Her great love for children has inspired much of her work. Her nature poems testify to her fondness for nature and all that is beautiful. Grace Ingles Frost's chief characteristics are loyalty, uncompromising, outspoken candor, (an excellent thing for making enemies); a Christ-like sympathy for the oppressed and weak of the earth, and an overwhelming desire to do with her might everything that her hands find to do. Many a young girl's feet would have strayed had Grace Ingles Frost not set them in the path of right, even though she has, at times, received cold scorn from some self-righteous Levite. Her motto has ever been, "Do right and fear no man." Miss Frost has been a contributor to practically all of the Church magazines, her very early poems appearing in the Young Woman's Journal and in the Juvenile Instructor. Readers of the Tribune and undoubtedly of the Deseret News have come in contact with her writings. She tells us that her ability to write verse has been the means of casting much sunshine 'over an otherwise sorrowful life.' One of these gladdening experiences happened during the present year. The Adams Ward Relief Society, Los Angeles Stake, has asked that a chair with a metal plate bearing Miss Frost's name be placed in its new auditorium. She writes "you may be sure that their appreciation (meaning her sisters who have shown her this honor) of my literary efforts has made me desire more earnestly to produce work which might merit such a kindly tribute GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 457 The wonderful letters of appreciation received from this society have caused me to wonder how my verses could possibly inspire such words." During the past year Miss Frost has been invited to join the International League of Writers. She adds, "I did not accept the invitation because writing is my pleasure and not my profession." Miss Frost has a very deep-seated love for nature and writes some of her most beautiful lines when contemplating and reveling in the beauties of nature. As an example of this we include: APPLE BLOSSOMS Dainty, modestly blushing things, Fragile as the gossamer wings Of the small creatures clothed i in cloth of gold; That flit from flow'r to flow'r and dip Down to the heart of you to sip The nectar hidden there for ages old. Dainty, modestly blushing things, From out your midst the wild bird flings A flood of. Lilting notes upon the wind, To bind them in a sheaf of song That makes me glad the whole day long, Down 'neath the bowers of bloom you've intertwined. Dainty, modestly blushing things, The breeze with gentle mischief brings You pattering down, a fragrant shower, That lulls my senses, aye, and soothes My restive spirit 'til it woos Me into oneness with the Divine Power. Dainty, modestly blushing things, Within my soul a pean rings, For busy bees ahum and boughs abloom, And for the blithesome notes that float From the treasure of the feathered throat, Which leave in mind, for meagre thoughts, no room. A poem she calls "Living" begpeaks the same sincere love of nature. LIVING Hoary headed peaks ablaze with glory, And winter's keen caress upon each cheek; The rhythmic, crispy sound of crunching snowflakes That white and glistening lie beneath our feet, 
 The pearly sails of graceful, speeding cloudships That hold a glad regatta in the sky, The green-black firs aglint with frosty fringes That gleam like diamond-drops and you and I Filled with a bouyant, new found joy of living, And after eventide, an azure night Bright with the starry lamps that shine in heaven, And the deep, white silence from a moonlit sky, Oh! This is living, living, living! And you, thank God, are. You and I am I. One of Grace Ingles Front's outstanding characteristics is her love of children. In her poem "Answered" she discovers much of the wonder and glory of God's handiwork in the face of a little child. ANSWERED I longed to penetrate the depths of space, To see beyond the blue of sapphire skies, To look upon the glory of God's face, To view and learn of mighty mysteries. Nor cup of disappointment did I quaff; One day my yearning arms held close a babe, And in its eyes, from its sweet, gurgling laugh, I saw and learned those things my soul had craved. Her love for children is again revealed in the poem, WHEN THE WIND SANG ITS BABE TO SLEEP (First published in "The Young Woman's Journal") The wind sang its babes to sleep last night, With a sweet, low croon, with a sweet, low croon, Rocking them high in a tree near by, Tucked into beds of apple bloom. The stars came blinking out from the blue, And the moon peeped from over the hill, And for each wee hand in its trundle bed, There was left on the window sill, A bundle held by a sheath of light, That the tiny moonbeams had spun From their own gleams into wondrous dreams, For a gift to each little one. While the moon sang its babes to sleep last night. With a sweet, low croon, with a sweet, low croon. Rocking them high in a tree near by, Tucked into beds of apple bloom. GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 459 DEARIE HEART (A Lullaby) (Published in the "Juvenile Instructor') Do you hear, Dearie Heart, tween the dusk and the dark, The wind croon a lullaby song, And the leaves on the trees, as they nod to the breeze, Waft the wonderful music along? Can you see from the blue, starshine beckon to you, And moonbeams to guide your wee feet, From the playtime and noise of your romping and toys, To the quiet of Milky Way Street? Ah! Then harken, oh, hark 'tween the dusk and the dark, 'Till the lullaby song seals your eyes, And soon you will be far, far out on the sea That leads you where Dreamy Land lies. It is not an uncommon thing for poets to feel as Tennyson felt, that words "half reveal and half conceal the thoughts within." The poem "Unuttered Songs" are in line with this idea. UNUTTERED SONGS Those songs the vice cannot find notes to utter, Do they not fall back into heart of man, Like unshed tears that are too great to pass The conduit of the outward being through? Shall they not echo and reecho in the soul, Until this sphere of limitation's past? And then in music they have made their own, Break forth in a magnificent at last? Methinks the songs that yet remain unuttered, Awaiting for fortuity to voice, Are those to which but higher mind can hearken, So fraught are they with words and music choice. No one can read a sketch of Grace Ingles Frost's life and not be impressed by her versality. The art instinct is so much a part of her whole being that it has found expression in needlework, painting, music, and in poetry. She is indeed one of very exceptional gifts. All of her poems have in them a deeply religious strain. "My Mother's Ring," published in the May issue of the Magazine, carries with it a deep-seated faith in the immortality of the soul. We quote the last stanza: 
 "Oh! Since she has awakened Within the Better Land, Can it be she has longed to feel This circlet on her hand? Or does she wear another, The counterpart of this, Yet of a rarer beauty, There is in her home of bliss? This much, I know+-my Mother's ring (Worn on my hand today). Seems to keep her near me, Though she has passed away; And well I know 'twill keep my feet From treading devious ways; For Mother's ring is shining With a gleam from her life's rays. Questions and Problems -Bertha A. Kleinman. 1. Name a group of magazines outside of Church periodicals in which Mrs. Kleinman's poems have been published. 2. Prove from her poems that she is interested in the neighbors about her. 3. Quote some lines from one of her poems to show that old people appeal to her. 4. Prove from her writings that she is interested in civic projects. Grace Ingles Frost. "1. Select some lines that you regard as particularly beautiful, carrying a message of the poet's love for nature. 2. Quote some lines that indicate that she is particularly 3. Prove from the material presented in the biographical sketch that Miss Frost is a woman of very versatile talents. 4. Give evidence from her poetry that she has faith in and love for God. Devoted to children.: GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 461 LESSSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE How THE CHILD LEARNS TO Express HIMSELF IN LANGUAGE, Music, Etc. (Based on Chapter VII: The Child: His Nature and His Needs.) The reader will recall that in the six preceding lessons we have been considering the various phases of child nature and attempting to separate the "wheat from the chaff" in regard to child psychology. It will be recalled, specifically, that we discussed the more important inborn tendencies in childhood and their need for proper guidance by the parent. Then we consider the child's active nature and the need for wise direction of these energies rather than their suppression. Later we consider the child's moral and social development, noting the way in which the growing child learns to live successfully in a world of other persons. In the present chapter?the last in Part Il?we are to consider a somewhat different aspect of child nature. We are to think about the ways in which the normal child learns to express his ideas, his attitudes, and his emotions. Our expert this time is another national authority on the subject, Dr. E. A. Kirkpatrick, psychologist at the Massachusetts State Normal School, Fitchburg. A. The Laws of Learning in General. (Pages 132-139) Before taking up language and some of the other arts of expression, the author treats the reader to a rather lengthy discussion of the laws of learning in general (This section, pp. 132-139, by the way, can be omitted without much loss by those who do not care for such a bit of theoretical psychology. ) Memory, learning and motor skill, as the author points out by his numerous examples, are possible only because stimuli and responses, ideas and processes, become definitely connected. I. ?., associated with one another in the brain. Habits, good or bad, helpful, harmless or harmful, are developed by the mere process of strengthening the associations (or bonds) between these elements; i. E., by repetition under favorable conditions. It would seem appropriate here to call attention to another law of learning too often neglected in this age of speed; viz., in all forms of motor skill, accuracy should be striven for before speed. Specifically, in-the child's learning to speak, to write, to cipher, to draw, to play the piano, etc., certain standards of 
 accuracy should be insisted upon by the parents before speed is stressed. Such an emphasis by parents and teachers would do much to improve the low quality of handwriting, spelling, arithmetic, etc., common among American children. Questions 1, From your own experience, illustrate the laws of association referred to on page 132. 2. Why is it "very important that children should be given some means of seeing their own improvement in whatever they are learning?" How might a parent do this in the case of a child learning to speak, to play the piano, etc.? B. Learning Language. (Pages 140-148) Language behavior is extremely complicated. Learning a language constitutes the child's first great task. It challenges and measures not only his mental powers but the guidance skill of his parents and teachers. The most important phases of language behavior and the order in which they develop in the child-are: talking, reading, and writing. Because of the fact that speech disorders are so common (surveys show that 8 or 9 out of every 1,000 school children stutter, for example), it has been thought well to introduce a few pertinent quotations from two reliable authorities on the subject ?Blanton and Blanton, Child Guidance (Century Co., 1927), pp. 105-110* "Speech disorders may be classified from the descriptive standpoint as follows: (1) delayed speech, (2) oral inactivities, (3) letter-sound substitution, and (4) stuttering, which includes stammering. "Delayed speech. The normal child begins to use voluntary speech constantly when he is about fifteen months old. If it is delayed a year beyond this time, he should be examined by a physician who is familiar with nervous diseases. The five common causes for delayed speech are: (a) lack of mental development, (b) lack of necessity for speech (e. G., where the child has too much 'done for him), (c) continued illness with extreme malnutrition during infancy, (d) unhealthy emotional attitudes and (e) deafness. "Oral Inactivities. Oral inactivities consist of a slurring or indistinctness of speech, which may be due to some organic disease of the speech organs, to some emotional conflict, or to some difficulty in the learning process. *For a more complete discussion of this subject see Blanton and Blanton, Speech Training for Children (Century Co.). GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 463 "Letter-sound substitution and omission. This is usually called lalling or lisping, and is a substitution of one sound for another, such as th for s, w for r, tsh for tr, and ? for k. * * The majority (of such cases) are caused by emotional conflicts. Many of them are due to a retention of infantile phonetic habits, and many of them are due to a retention of infantile emotional habits. The treatment consists of two parts: (a) emotional re-education, and (b) phonetic re-education. Yr ae "Stuttering, which includes stammering. Stuttering, under which we include stammering, may be described as a break in the rhythm of speech due to a blocking or inhibiting of the muscle co-ordinations. It must not be thought of as a disease, but: as a symptom of any of a number of underlying conditions. "We do not find any explanation of the cause of stuttering through examination of the bodily organs. Of course, such conditions as malnutrition, diseased tonsils, carious teeth, and nasal obstructions, may cause an increase in the natural irritability of the nervous system, but these conditions are not the cause of stuttering. A "A search of the 'emotional life of stuttering children always reveals some of these defects: timidity, strong feelings of inferiority, an over-dependence on the parents, and feeling of inadequacy. In some cases we notice a marked rigidity towards life, an unwillingness to change food and sleep habits, an over suggestibility, a chronic fear of meeting certain groups of people or situations, or a marked sensitiveness. Ee a ee "The treatment of stuttering fails under three headings: (a) physical hygiene, ((b) mental hygiene, by which we mean emotional re-education, and (c) relaxation and training in muscle co-ordination. "(a) The laws of physical hygiene are well known to parents, so we shall not dwell on this phase of the subject. "(b) In mental hygiene the fundamental thing is the changing of the general. Emotional reactions and the correcting of faulty attitudes which give rise to tension. The child must be trained to work successfully rather. Than to day-dream, and to get along well with other children. Some outlet must be found for his fundamental social and biological tendencies and the necessity for winning some success. "(c) Parents should absolutely ignore the child's speech defect as such. They should not ask him to repeat sentences, and should not seem distressed or irritated when he becomes blocked or inhibited. Even slight changes of expression on the face are noticed by the stuttering child. - "The use of phonetics or of vocal exercises, such as in- 
 flection, change of pitch, breathing, etc., is to be avoided. There is no difficulty in the child's speech mechanism. The difficulty is primarily psychological. Talking is to be encouraged, as are all. Situations of a social nature, because through them the child is really being trained to meet life." Since writing is an important form of expression, it seems important to call attention to certain dangers incident to its mastery: by the child. About ninety-five per cent of all human beings are born with a greater capacity for skill with the right hand than with the left. Of the remaining five percent, some are neutral (or ambidextrous), some are slightly left-handed, while others are extremely left-handed. Since handwriting is difficult for lefthanded children, many parents and teachers insist (sometimes unwisely) upon the left-handed child using his right hand. For example, left-handed children who at the outset start with their left hands and are later made to change to their right hands not infrequently develop stuttering, the reason being that since writing is a form of speech, and since the respective areas of control in the brain become definitely associated, any change of handedness for writing purposes naturally upsets this association with the results indicated. In every case of left-handedness, parents should decide at the outset, with the help of ithe teacher, which hand the child shall use for writing. If the child is neutral or only slightly left-handed it is generally safe to insist on the right hand. If the child is extremely left-handed, he should be allowed to use his left hand for writing. In no case should a child be made to change hands for writing, once the habit gets under way.* Questions 1. Observe the language behavior of your own children or those accessible to your observation. What laws of learning and language expression can you see illustrated? Do you know children or adults in your community with speech defects similar to those discussed above? Do such children get the special care and attention they need in school? If not, ask your Superintendent or Board or Education why it cannot be supplied.: 3. What are the new methods of teaching reading? How do they differ from the old? (If you do not know, consult any. Competent primary-grade teacher in your community.) 4, What is the policy in your local schools regarding lefthanded children and their hand-writing? If you are concerned and in doubt about it, talk to the principal or the teacher. ? *For further discussion of this subject see Beely, A. L., Aw Experimental Study of Left-handedness, University of Chicago Press, 1918. GOT A DATE TONIGHT? It's great?to have a date, with the right girl or the right man. If, some day, you plan to marry?the date is all the finer. But what about the bread and butter? What about the money? That's YOUR problem. Mr. Man. It won't solve itself. The money won't come, if you can't earn it. When you apply for a job, it helps a lot to be able to say: "Here's what I can do." Let us help you NOW ?-so you can say that when the time comes. Train at the L. D. S. Business College and Be Prepared Complete courses in BOOKKEEPING?COMPTOMETER? SHORTHAND?TYPEWRITING?SPEEDWRITING. L. D. S. Business College "UTAH'S GREATEST BUSINESS SCHOOL" ?-"PICKLING SEASON" It will soon be time for putting up pickles. It is every woman's ambition to put up better pickles than her neighbor, and almost every woman, some time in her life, has been induced to take 'something just as good' in the way of pickling spices and vinegar. As a result, she has lost her pickles. If you will use SCOWCROFT'S Blue PINE Group Mustard whole pickling spices and vinegar in making your mustard pickles, and BLUE PINE WHOLE Spices in - your pickling with Blue Pine Vinegar, we will guarantee that you will not lose your pickles. John Scowcroft & Sons Co. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine A NEW YEAR-- Another Opportunity We all welcome additional chances of doing what we have wanted to do. There is another opportunity for the youth of the State of Utah to either begin or to continue their higher education at THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH The following schedule of registration is announced for the Autumn Quarter: Thursday, September 27?Registration Day for Freshmen. Friday and Saturday, September 28 and 29?Special instruction for Freshmen. Monday, October 1?Registration for all other students. Tuesday, October 2?Instruction begins.