Honor Fund in her name, to be known as the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund and to be used in any way she might designate. Frequently in the intervening time, President Williams had pondered the matter, yet had not been able to decide upon a project that entirely met her thoughts and feelings. Finally, an unusual number of applications for loans from the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund, already established by the General Board, made it necessary to seek further for money to meet the requests. A suggestion from Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, to the effect that the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund be combined with the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund met with President Williams' hearty approval and likewise with the approval of her counselors. The matter was presented to the General Board, which followed Mrs. Lyman's recommendation that the Relief Society Public Health Nurse Loan Fund and the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund be combined and be known as the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Loan Fund for Public Health Nurses, making a fund of $2,650.00, and further that this fund be increased by the General Board from $2,650.00 to $3,000.00, the additional money to be taken from the Contingent fund of the Board and that a separate committee be appointed for this fund. It was moved by Counselor Jennie B. Knight and seconded by Amy W. Evans. The motion was carried unanimously. President Williams expressed her heartfelt appreciation for the honor conferred upon her by adding to her Honor Fund, the amount which had been originally appropriated for a Public Health Nurse Loan Fund. She stated that she could think of no other use to which the money might be put that would give her so much pleasure as to have a loan fund for hospital nurses desiring to take up public health nursing. President Williams appointed the committee to administer this fund. We feel sure that the announcement of the establishment of this fund will be most gratifying to Relief Society workers everywhere, not only because of its value, but because it is forward looking in the very highest sense of the word. Well trained public health nurses form a corps of new evangelists of the gospel of health, whose business it is to teach and protect health rather than restore when health is broken. Within the month we have read an editorial in a medical journal predicting that the time is not far distant when physicians would spend more time teaching than doing any other thing. The editor, himself a physician, stated that emphasis, in the future, will be placed on the art and science of teaching people
EDITORIAL 421
the laws of health?that they might know how to obtain and retain health. This ideal, if realized, would make the practice of medicine as we now know it almost superfluous. That the name of President Williams should be allied to a project that promises so much for the future, is a source of gratification to Relief Society workers.
The Primary Jubilee
INFLUENCE OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS
Since the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Primary Association, much has been said in relation to the influence that this organization has had upon the lives of outstanding men and women. We recall a story told by Dr. Harvey Fletcher, now prominent among American scientists, at a dinner where he was a guest just before he was engaged to do the work he is following with such signal success in the city of New York. Dr. Fletcher desired that there should be no misunderstanding on the part of the people who were about to request his services, as he wished them to know just who he was and just what he professed. They noticed that he did not drink nor smoke, and that tea and coffee were not on his list of indulgences. When asked how it came about, he said he was a "Mormon" boy, trained in "Mormon" institutions all his life, and that when a little child in the Primary Association, he was taught that tea and coffee, tobacco and liquor, were not good for people. The air has been full of complimentary and appreciative expressions for the beautiful program staged June 8, 9 and 10th in commemoration of the founding of the Primary Association, fifty years ago. The Relief Society is particularly interested in it as an achievement, planned, fostered and put over by women. It is true that some of the uninitiated doubted the ability of women to put over the two pageants and such an exhibition of fun and frolic as was seen from the bleachers of the stadium of the University of Utah on Saturday evening, June 9th, without the assistance of men, but these modern "doubting Thomases," like the one of scriptural fame, were convinced by seeing. Seeing is believing, and words of appreciation from many sources have not been lacking to describe this outstanding event in the history of this much beloved organization of children. We have heard many people praise its success in enthusiastic language; we know of those who have referred to it as 'magnificent from start to finish.' The words used do not make much difference; the main thing is the appreciation felt by those who took


part, and those who beheld it and in whom joyous thoughts and joyous feelings were aroused. We extend to the teachers of these children: the Ward presidents, Stake presidents and the General Board of the Primary Association and the Executive Committee of the Board, our heartiest congratulations.
PROGRAM IN THE TABERNACLE
The Tabernacle session of the Jubilee, with its well timed and well planned program, featuring the mother heart in a setting of color of the children's own creation, demonstrated once again that we are living in a new era, for not only is the mother heart with all its understanding and appreciation of the little things that go to make up a happy child life, supposed to function in the home, but it is supposed to function in the big outside world, and carry to all children, as far as possible, the blessings, so often in the past vouchsafed only to the few. In other words, every woman with a gift for doing or saying something that may enrich or assist children to be healthy, good and happy, is supposed to pool her knowledge for the good of all?that all children, as far as it is humanly possible, may enjoy those priceless blessings of life that Jesus, who loved little children, intended should be the heritage of all.
APPRECIATION BY RELIEF SOCIETY
The following letter was sent by the General Board of the Relief Society to the General Board of the Primary:
President May Anderson and Members of the General Board of the Primary Association, 39 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Dear Sisters: I am directed by the General Board of Relief Society to extend to you the hearty congratulations of our board for your most successful and glorious jubilee, and to thank you most heartily and cordially for the reserved seats you so kindly furnished the members of the General Board of Relief Society. We feel that your jubilee was one of the most remarkable episodes which has been brought about by any of our Church groups. It was thrilling, entertaining and inspirational, as well as having real historical value. We wish you continued success.
Very Sincerely yours, In Behalf of the General Board of Relief Society. (Mrs.) Amy Brown Lyman, General Sec.