Elise B. Alder By Nettie D. Bradford
ELISE BENSON ALDER, one of our Father's choicest daughters, was called home to her reward, August 22, 1937. Her loss will be keenly felt not only by her family, but by the General Board and the many Relief Society members throughout the Church that she loved and served so well.
Elise was born in Logan, Utah, March 10, 1873. Her parents, George Taft Benson and Louisa Ballif were of sturdy pioneer stock, leaders in their communities, and they endowed their daughter with sterling qualities. She was exceptionally proud of her ancestors, and she always said that any success she had achieved was due to her inheritance and to her husband who so ably assisted her in whatever she had to do.
Mrs. Alder was a beautiful woman of stately, dignified mien. This made her a splendid presiding officer. Her devotion to her husband and her family was outstanding and gave her a certain queenliness. She took pride in her family who have been a credit to a fine mother. She was extremely happy to be a grandmother and dearly loved her grandchildren. She was always full of enthusiasm, and inspired others with her dynamic personality. It has often been said by Relief Society members in different stakes where Mrs. Alder visited, "We will never forget Sister Alder and her wonderful talk to our visiting teachers. It inspired us all to put forth greater effort, and practically assured our success." She had a very affectionate nature and loved her associates and admired their achievements. She was always so proud and happy when any member of the General Board received recognition for outstanding work. She was never backward in giving a word of praise for a task well done, no matter how inconspicuous it might be. Her warm and loving heart gave her a magnetic personality, and this with her natural eloquence, her optimism and faith made her a leader among women.
HER leadership began at an early age. Her first position in the Latter-day Saint Church was that of Secretary of the Primary Association in the Whitney Ward in Oneida Stake. Her duties in the Church organizations have been numerous and varied since then. She served as teacher, chorister, counselor and president in every organization in the Church, both in Whitney Ward and in Salt Lake City. She was a teacher in the public schools in Idaho, and taught in the Primary Department in the Oneida Stake Academy for three years prior to her marriage to George Alfred Alder in October, 1895. She did not have a teacher's certificate so one of the board suggested that she be replaced by one holding the required credentials, but Dr. Karl G. Maeser after visiting her school three times said, "She is a natural-born teacher. Keep her as long as you can."
Mrs. Alder was always interested in music and directed many choruses as well as a ward choir. I have often heard her speak of "my boys" when mentioning a boys' chorus of forty members she was training. At one time the Whitney choir of 16 voices under her leadership entered a contest at an Eisteddfod at Logan. The boy chosen to sing the baritone part became so frightened that he could not sing. She unhesitatingly sang his role and her group carried off first prize from the eleven competing choirs.
She grew up with a knowledge of Relief Society work, for her mother was Stake President of the Oneida Stake Relief Societies for sixteen years. Mrs. Alder was Secretary of the organization during some of this time. It was after she moved to Salt Lake City that her wonderful work in the Relief Society really began, however. In August, 1915, she was appointed President of the Twentieth Ward Relief Society. A few months later she was made President of the Relief Societies in the Ensign Stake, where she served for eight years. It was during her labors as a stake President that we first became closely associated, for at that time it was my privilege to be President of the Relief Societies in the Salt Lake Stake. We often discussed our work together and visited conferences in each other's stakes. We worked together with the other Salt Lake City Stake Presidents to establish a storehouse to supply the needy with clothes and other commodities, the first thing of the sort that had been done up to that time. We also worked together on a Committee of Stake Presidents for the arranging of a banquet in honor of the General Board. Elise B. Alder was the toastmistress at that banquet which was held in April, 1924. She was a pleasing speaker and loved to give talks. At one time she said that one of her great desires was to be a good public speaker. Her desire was realized for many people have stated how they enjoyed Mrs. Alder's addresses in the different stakes and at the General Relief Society Conferences.
MY associations with Mrs. Alder have continued to be very close. We were called to the General Board of the Relief Society at the same time, April, 1925, and during all these years we have sat side by side in our Board meetings. We served on several committees together. Mrs. Alder put her heart and soul in her work for she loved to be of service. Loyalty was one of her outstanding characteristics. She was ever loyal to husband, children, home, friends and associates; loyal and faithful to her work. Her motto seemed to be "The work must go on." A number of years ago she met with an accident, and was relieved of her duties for several months because she insisted that she must not hinder the progress of the work. Although so busily engaged in public service, she still had time to do a great deal of handwork. She loved to crochet, and has made many beautiful afghans, luncheon sets and other articles for her family and friends during her spare moments. She was never idle. She was most appreciative. One of her greatest joys was to repay a kindness shown her. A piece of her delicious home-made candy has been enjoyed by many a one who has helped her in some way. She was never happier than when doing something for someone else. She loved and helped her neighbors in various ways. Her life is a shining example of true service to others.
Perhaps my personal feelings can be best expressed briefly in this little poem by Emmeline B. Wells: "I count thy friendship as a precious boon; Indeed it has been very dear to me; Among the many women I have known, None have been truer, or more sweet than thee."