Overcoming OVERCOMING is one of the most strengthening tonics man knows. The Book of Mormon tells us that "It must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in one; wherefore, if it should be one body it must needs remain as dead, having no life neither death, nor corruption nor incorruption, happiness nor misery, neither sense nor insensibility." It is easy to drift down stream. The weak ever choose the easy way. The strong let no obstacle overcome them. Many inventors have gone without even the necessities of life that they might continue experimenting until the desired thing was found out, until the longed-for truth was demonstrated. Milton, during months of active pain, after sight of one eye and then of the other was lost, with marvelous strength of purpose went on with his writing, enriching the world with priceless gems. Count Zichy, great lover of music, by the bursting of a gun, lost his right arm. Piano artistry had - been his goal. The seemingly insurmountable obstacle of the loss of one arm did not daunt him. He became so expert that he gave a higher standard of left hand technique than had ever before been known. This has bettered all piano work. Robert Louis Stevenson, dying 'of tuberculosis, gave by example and exhortation, lessons in cheerfulness that are unforgetable. So often we seek easy trails, not realizing that endurance comes only through overcoming hindrances. All too often our upward climb is impeded by the valueless things we carry. Mountains of difficulty ever confront the one who would achieve. Footsore, weary, thirsty, the intrepid spirit presses on. When at last the summit is reached, those met at the top are of the best. "This companionship, however, is but one of the joys that comes to the soul of man when for the first time he looks out upon the vast sea of granite waves; as he looks down on the silver-gold backs of the clouds, the world of man's making lost to all vision; when he feels in his veins the exhilaration of within, the answer to the call of victory; when he feels thrilling the years, the call to mastery not alone of things, but of self."