[She couldn't believe what she had heard. It must be true for all the class members were staring at her. And John Rons wasn't controlling his displeasure. Miss Ardman ignored the stares. "IT wish every one of you could have a part in the play," she told them, opening the notebook again. "And there is a place for everyone in the production of the play." She went on to read the names of those who would assume the work of production. Everyone in the class of twenty-five had a job. Rehearsal, she said, would be in the afternoon, beginning today. The play would be ready in a little over a month's time. When the electric bell rang the seniors filed out, talking excitedly. No one came to congratulate Janie except Amy Huff, the homeliest girl in the class and an excellent student. "I know you can do it, Janie," she said in her kind, low voice. "Gee, I don't see why she picked on me," said Janie scornfully as she gathered up her books and papers, "T've never been in a play before." "Don't you want to be in a play?" Janie almost jumped. Miss Ardman was standing in the aisle opposite her. "Why yes," she admitted, twisting her handkerchief and chewing the forbidden gum in her embarrassment, "only some of the others would be better, I guess." "T think you'll do very well." Then the teacher placed her slender long fingers on the sleeve of Janie's rusty brown coat and said in a lowered voice, "I want you to do the part well, and you can—if you are willing to work. After rehearsal, } elp you with your her books and started to set the voice and Posture? There até afew table. Tricks that wil] help a lot." "You couldn' "Why, £0sh, Miss Ardma an, could you?" bet [I] anie put down her her mother asked hopefully, Ooks and in her enthusiasm Pressed ¢ only "vening dress [ ve seen er hands together untj] the knuckher Wear ls a black one. We ve all €s showed white 'TI work al] Got to be dressed in Sptingtime night if it will do any good," dresses, brigh and fluffy, like th Just ag little hard work before Play itself, She did want to tell edtime wil] Be sufficient," Miss er mother that she would like this Ardman answered pumly, Whe be ard i] anie felt herself blushing again ino?" He ae ie other eins, Wear 'Tl make It to class early, J Prom-]

She couldn't believe what she had heard. It must be true for all the class members were staring at her. And John Rons wasn't controlling his displeasure. Miss Ardman ignored the stares. "IT wish every one of you could have a part in the play," she told them, opening the notebook again. "And there is a place for everyone in the production of the play." She went on to read the names of those who would assume the work of production. Everyone in the class of twenty-five had a job. Rehearsal, she said, would be in the afternoon, beginning today. The play would be ready in a little over a month's time. When the electric bell rang the seniors filed out, talking excitedly. No one came to congratulate Janie except Amy Huff, the homeliest girl in the class and an excellent student. "I know you can do it, Janie," she said in her kind, low voice. "Gee, I don't see why she picked on me," said Janie scornfully as she gathered up her books and papers, "T've never been in a play before." "Don't you want to be in a play?" Janie almost jumped. Miss Ardman was standing in the aisle opposite her. "Why yes," she admitted, twisting her handkerchief and chewing the forbidden gum in her embarrassment, "only some of the others would be better, I guess." "T think you'll do very well." Then the teacher placed her slender long fingers on the sleeve of Janie's rusty brown coat and said in a lowered voice, "I want you to do the part well, and you can—if you are willing to work. After rehearsal, } elp you with your her books and started to set the voice and Posture? There até afew table. Tricks that wil] help a lot." "You couldn' "Why, £0sh, Miss Ardma an, could you?" bet [I] anie put down her her mother asked hopefully, Ooks and in her enthusiasm Pressed ¢ only "vening dress [ ve seen er hands together untj] the knuckher Wear ls a black one. We ve all €s showed white 'TI work al] Got to be dressed in Sptingtime night if it will do any good," dresses, brigh and fluffy, like th Just ag little hard work before Play itself, She did want to tell edtime wil] Be sufficient," Miss er mother that she would like this Ardman answered pumly, Whe be ard i] anie felt herself blushing again ino?" He ae ie other eins, Wear 'Tl make It to class early, J Prom- 6