[The Conductor and the Accompanist by Florence Jepperson Madsen]

The Conductor and the Accompanist Florence Jeppetson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board HE conductor is primarily a teacher. To be a successful teacher one must be progressive and to be progressive one must constantly study. 'This study should be directed toward the acquisition of added knowledge pertaining to the leadership intended.
Such knowledge may be gained from various sources. To be properly and fully effective these sources must be reliable.
They may be in the form of music teachers, lecturers, books, records, radios, etc. One of the very best means of gaining musical knowledge is through the study of the piano and the organ.
Even in remote places a school music teacher or supervisor may be found who can be induced to teach the fundamentals of music either privately or to a group. The library in any sizable community should have on its shelves a few good music textbooks for study. If such books are not immediately available they can often be secured through a request to the librarian. A music magazine such as The Etude is most helpful. It contains very valuable information in the various branches of musical education.
Some of the necessary qualities a conductor should possess are: musicianship, dynamic and inspiring personality, congeniality, patience, humor, quick discernment, self-control, tactfulness, apprecia- 5. To assist tion, and administrative ability. Impartiality, The position of the accompanist - is of parallel importance with that of the conductor. In order to successfully fulfill the requirements of this position the accompanist should have adequate musical training, with special emphasis on piano or organ or both.
This training should include ample technique and _ sufficient skill to read and play at sight compositions of, at least, moderate difficulty.
Like the conductor, the accompanist should continually study and practice toward greater efficiency in musical performance.
This broader training should also include a knowledge of conducting and singing. The major responsibilities and qualifications of the accompanist may be summed up as follows: 1. To assist the conductor in the performance of her duties and even function as a-conductor when needed. 2. To furnish the necessary accompaniment. 3. To help establish and maintain the appropriate rhythmical background of a composition. 4. To play accurately and support adequately the various vocal parts as needed in a rehearsal. In effecting the correct tempos, attacks, dynamics, releases, and to help in bringing about suitable word, chord, and phrase nuances. 6.