[Vol36 | January 1949 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Lesson | Title: 50 LESSON DEPARTMENTTheology: "The Transfiguration" | Author: Elder Don B. Colton]
Lesson  15— ^'The  Transfiguration'' 
Elder  Don  B.  Colton 
(Reference:  Jesus  the  Chiist,  Chapter  23,  by  Elder  James  E.  Talmage) 
For  Tuesday,  April  5,  1949 
Objective:  To  become  acquainted  with  one  of  the  outstanding  events  of  the  Savior's 
earthly  ministry. 
Note:  All  quotations  which  are  not  followed  by  references  are  taken  from  the  text 
Jesus  the  Chiist. 
A  BOUT  a  week  after  the  apostles 
had  been  given  the  testimony 
that  *7^sus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  hving  God/'  the  Savior  took 
Peter,  James,  and  John  and  went 
with  them  to  a  high  mountain. 
There  the  three  aposties  were  per- 
mitted to  witness  a  heavenly  mani- 
festation, which  is  probably  without 
a  parallel  in  history.  They  were  wit- 
nesses to  the  Transfiguration  of 
Christ.  The  mountain  on  which 
the  transfiguration  occurred  is  not 
definitely  known.  It  was  probably 
Mt.  Hermon  in  the  northerly  part 
of  Palestine. 
One  purpose  of  the  Lord  in  going 
to  the  mountain  was  to  engage  in 
prayer.  While  he  was  thus  engaged, 
the  three  apostles  fell  asleep.  Great 
glory  came  upon  the  Lord  while  he 
prayed,  *'.  .  .  and  his  face  did  shine 
as  the  sun,  and  his  raiment  was  white 
as  the  light"  (Matt.  17:2).  The 
apostles  were  awakened  by  the  "sur- 
passing splendor  of  the  scene."  They 
were  permitted  to  behold  their  Lord 
in  a  glory  they  had  not  seen  before. 
With  him  were  two  other  person- 
ages, Moses  and  Elias,  'who  ap- 
peared in  glory."  These  two  were 
talking  with  Jesus.  Let  us  get  the 
reality  of  the  glorious  scene.  Two 
men  who  had  once  lived  upon  the 
earth  but  had  since  passed  from 
earthly  scenes,  were  back  now  in  a 
state  of  ''glorified  radiance,"  talking 
to  the  Being  they  had  served  so  well. 
They  were  talking  with  the  Christ 
concerning  "his  decease  which  he 
should  accomplish  at  Jerusalem." 
Undoubtedly  the  three  apostles  were 
bewildered.  Who  would  not  be? 
As  the  two  visitors  were  about  to 
leave,  "Peter  said  unto  Jesus,  Master, 
it  is  good  for  us  to  be  here:  and  let 
us  make  three  tabernacles;  one  for 
thee,  and  one  for  Moses,  and  one 
for  Elias:  not  knowing  what  he 
said."  This  remark,  made  by  Peter, 
may  have  been  occasioned  because 
of  the  custom  to  erect  a  small  booth 
of  wattled  boughs  for  each  worship- 
er at  the  Feast  of  the  Tabernacles. 
Page  51

THE  GOOD  SHEPHERD 
From  a  Painting  by  Plockhorst 
Page  52

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
53 
This  permitted  each  worshiper  to 
have  some  httle  privacy.  Peter  prob- 
ably w^anted  to  delay  the  departure 
of  these  two  great  characters.  Moses 
has  always  been  held  in  the  highest 
esteem  by  the  Jews. 
But  even  as  Peter  spoke,  ".  .  .  be- 
hold, a  bright  cloud  overshadowed 
them:  and  behold  a  voice  out  of  the 
cloud,  which  said,  This  is  my  be- 
loved Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased;  hear  ye  him."  It  was  the 
Eternal  Father  speaking.  When  they 
heard  the  voice  from  the  Majesty  on 
high,  tlie  apostles  '\  .  .  fell  on  their 
face,  and  were  sore  afraid.  And  Jesus 
came  and  touched  them,  and  said, 
Arise,  and  be  not  afraid."  How  can 
we  read  this  account  and  not  recog- 
nize that  both  Father  and  Son  exist 
as  separate  entities?  In  effect,  the 
same  things  had  been  spoken  at  the 
time  John  baptized  Jesus.  Here 
again  the  voice  of  Elohim  proclaims 
to  other  witnesses,  "This  is  my  be- 
loved Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased;  hear  ye  him"   (Matt.  17: 
5-7)- 
After  the  two  prophets  had 
departed,  Jesus  told  the  three 
apostles  that  they  were  not  to  speak 
to  anyone  about  the  manifestation 
until  after  he  had  arisen  from  the 
dead.  It  was  this  reference  to  his 
rising  from  the  dead  that  puzzled 
and  sorely  grieved  them.  It  was  dif- 
ficult for  them  to  grasp  the  full  sig- 
nificance of  the  statement.  Reluc- 
tantly, they  were  beginning  to  realize 
that  their  beloved  Master  was  to 
".  .  .  suffer  many  things,  and  be  re- 
jected of  the  elders,  and  of  the  chief 
priests,  and  scribes  and  be  killed,  and 
after  three  days  rise  again"  (Mark 
8:31).  The  peculiar  wording  used 
in  describing  the  exalted  conversa- 
tion between  the  three  glorified  per- 
sonages is  somewhat  hard  to  under- 
stand. The  decease  mentioned  evi- 
dently referred  to  what  the  Lord 
would  accomplish  rather  than  the 
death  he  would  suffer.  "The  Greek 
word  of  which  'decease'  appears  as 
the  English  equivalent  in  many  of 
the  manuscripts  of  the  gospels,  is 
one  connoting  'exodus'  or  'depart- 
ure.' "  In  some  versions  it  also  sig- 
nifies glory.  "So  also  the  Greek 
original  of  'accomplish,'  in  the  ac- 
count of  the  Transfiguration,  con- 
notes the  successful  filling  out  or 
completion  of  a  specific  undertak- 
ing, and  not  distinctively  the  act  of 
dying." 
The  "decease"  that  the  Savior  was  then 
so  soon  to  accomplish  was  the  voluntary 
surrender  of  his  life  in  fulfilment  of  a  pur- 
pose at  once  exalted  and  foreordained,  not 
a  death  by  which  He  would  passively  die 
through  conditions  beyond  His  control. 
.  .  .  He  died  a  willing  sacrifice  for  sin. 
Even  after  the  glorious  experience 
of  the  transfiguration,  it  was  diffi- 
cult for  the  apostles  to  grasp  the  sig- 
nificance of  the  statement,  "Jesus 
would  rise  again."  The  idea  of  the 
resurrection  deemed  vague  in  their 
minds.  "And  they  kept  that  saying 
with  themselves,  questioning  one 
with  another  what  the  rising  from 
the  dead  should  mean"  (Mark  9: 
10).  We  leam  largely  by  compari- 
son. Nothing  had  happened  in  the 
entire  history  of  the  Jewish  people, 
and  certainly  not  in  the  lives  of  the 
apostles,  vdth  which  they  could  com- 
pare the  startling  doctrine  of  the 
resurrection.  They  could  tell  no 
man  of  their  experiences  on  the 
Mount,  if  they  followed  the  instruc- 
tions of  the  Master.  This  kept  the 
others  of  the  Twelve  from  knowing