[Would you like to hear how he overcame his difficulty?"]

Would you like to hear how he overcame his difficulty?" 33
The class was very still.
Janie could hear their breathing while they looked at her. "I guess so," she said diffidently, returning their gaze.
Opening a little brown book on her desk, Miss Ardman read: In the morning, when thou nisest unwillingly, let this thought be present— I am nising to the work of a human being. Why then am I dissatisfied if I am going to do the things for which I exist and for which I was brought into this world? Or have I been made for this, to lie in the bedclothes and keep myself warm? She closed the little book and took off her glasses. It was very quiet in the room. "Perhaps," she said, smiling into Janie's sullen hazel eyes, "if you regard this class as part of your work in the world, you could have a little more enthusiasm for it. Do you think you could?"
Maybe this was the end of the scolding. "Sure, I'll try," Janie answered affably. She waited for the teacher to resume reading.
Before she picked up her glasses, Miss Ardman looked out of the window.
Then she pulled her top drawer open and took out a notebook. "I have permission from Mr.
Symes to take up some class matters.
Since we do not seem to be in the mood for poetry, we will discuss your problems."
There was a pleasant stir in the class. "I sure got us out of some old poetry," Janie thought, pleased with herself. "Tt is about the senior class play," Miss Ardman was saying. Janie's elation passed. She knew about the old play, had even gone to a reading of it.
Janie had not even bothered to write her part 34 preference. A fat chance she had of getting a part! "Last night I cast the play," Miss Ardman pronounced. "I took into consideration your choices; for the most part they coincided with my judgment.
Here is the list. If for any reason any one of you is not satisfied, see me _ privately after class." She opened the notebook and began to read.
Janie doodled with her pencil, interested in a detached way. The parts were just about as she would have cast them. John Rons had the lead, naturally.
John was studentbody president, star of football and track, and he was going to be a lawyer.
Life had made Janie into a realist. She did not often waste time thinking of John Rons, but if chance had given her a fur coat, a convertible car, a diamond ring, her home painted inside and out, a tip to Florida, and a year's supply of frozen foods, along with a complete wardrobe, she would have traded everything straight over for a date with John Rons. The girls' parts, except for the lead and the maid and the cook, were about equal.
Doreen and Janice, the two most popular girls in school, were right for the college girls. Now all the parts, except that of Marjorie, John's girl friend in the play, were read. When Miss Ardman came to the last name, there was an expectant hush.
Janie told herself that she didn't care who got it. "Marjorie," Miss Ardman read, "Janie Carlson."
Then she closed the notebook. TANIE'S mouth flew open as if some one had pressed a button.