[Zerm of found]

Zerm of found 0
Gospel Doctrine, chapter 23. Uth in the SOCialist-c9
Munist an- 2. Reli st and "onstutional Liberty" Ilys; hic Tecogniz - "a lS the title of chapter 14, Discourses of vYSIS w gnizes Onom Wilford Woodruf¢ (1946), self-interest aS a human Motive, 3- President John Taylor said, « od ex 'ly men too dimly understan Pects us to. Intain the principle the Institutio al forces which Influof human tights" (The Gospel King. Ence and Ondition behavior dom, page 3°7). Why? Et the supreme Ctrine of Indi- 4. Ae is a Politica] ae € of = s Tl T Or a 00 vidual respon ibility he a man discussion tes ara ' a religious (1) get the be 6 and (2) resist the Principle see The Discourses of Brigham Worst, in his environment. And Cung, chapter 5). 
66 
Optional ewons on cL of Social Ovieteo—Ne First Presidencies (Primanly for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 6—The Presidency of Wilford Woodruff Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, April 26, 1949
Tue PresipENcy A UNIT—THE THREE ARE ONE George QO. Cannon Wilford Woodruff ILFORD Woodruff, the fourth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, descended from sturdy New England ancestors whose love of independence in religion had brought them to America in the seventeenth century. Although he was deeply religious he never formally affiliated himself with any of the existing churches as he found them to be lacking in the teachings and organization of the Church as described in the New Testament. Born in Farmington, Connecticut, March 1, 1807, he learned the trade of a flour miller at his father's mill and later Wilford Woodruff Joseph F. Smith became an independent operator. In 1832 he moved to New York State. The following year two missionaries preaching the restored gospel held a meeting in the schoolhouse in his vicinity and he attended. The spirit of revelation rested upon him and at the conclusion of the service he bore testimony to the assembly that the missionaries had brought them a true message. 'Two days later, December 31, 1833, he was baptized. He moved to Kirtland the following year and during the ensuing sixtyfive years labored as one of the stalwart builders of the kingdom of God on earth. One of the great accomplishments LESSON DEPARTMENT aany missions both States and foreign lands. Altogether often felt so strongly Inspired to do @ Certain thing, that h on and self-interest 
68  We Suggest These Ladies Three-Part Numbers for your RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUS 3017