[Vol36 | January 1949 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Lesson | Title: 62 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Presidency of Wilford Woodruff | Author: Elder T. Edgar Lyon]
\:yptionai  JLessons  in  JLieu  of 
Social  Science — The  First  Presidencies 
(Primarily  for  use  outside  Continental  United  States  and  its  possessions) 
Lesson  6— The  Presidency  of  Wilford  Woodruff 
Elder  T.  Edgar  Lyon 
For  Tuesday,  April  26,  1949 
The  Presidency  a  Unit— the  Three  are  One 
George  Q.  Cannon       Wilford  Woodruff         Joseph  F.  Smith 
Wilford  Woodiuii 
VyiLFORD  Woodruff,  the  fourth 
President  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  de- 
scended from  sturdy  New  England 
ancestors  whose  love  of  independ- 
ence in  religion  had  brought  them 
to  America  in  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury. Although  he  was  deeply  re- 
ligious he  never  formally  affiliated 
himself  with  any  of  the  existing 
churches  as  he  found  them  to  be 
lacking  in  the  teachings  and  organ- 
ization of  the  Church  as  described 
in  the  New  Testament.  Born  in 
Farmington,  Connecticut,  March  1, 
1 807,  he  learned  the  trade  of  a  flour 
miller  at  his  father's  mill  and  later 
became  an  independent  operator.  In 
1832  he  moved  to  New  York  State. 
The  following  year  two  missionaries 
preaching  the  restored  gospel  held  a 
meeting  in  the  schoolhouse  in  his 
vicinity  and  he  attended.  The  spirit 
of  revelation  rested  upon  him  and 
at  the  conclusion  of  the  service  he 
bore  testimony  to  the  assembly  that 
the  missionaries  had  brought  them 
a  true  message.  Two  days  later,  De- 
cember 31,  1833,  he  ^^^  baptized. 
He  moved  to  Kirtland  the  following 
year  and  during  the  ensuing  sixty- 
five  years  labored  as  one  of  the  stal- 
wart builders  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
on  earth. 
One  of  the  great  accomplishments

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  il 
of  Wilford  Woodruff  was  in  the  various  aspects  of  pioneer  develop- 
field  of  missionary  activity.  He  filled  inent  and  he  never  lost  contact  with 
many  missions  both  in  the  United  the  soil  and  the  people  who  tilled 
States  and  foreign  lands.  Altogether  it.  B.  H.  Roberts  notes  that  Brig- 
he  traveled  more  than  175,000  miles  ham  Young,  Wilford  Woodruff, 
and  converted  and  baptized  more  Erastus  Snow,  and  Orson  Pratt  stand 
than  2,000  souls  during  his  public  out  as  the  four  greatest  pioneers  of 
ministry.  He  is  rated  by  historians  the  Intermountain  West, 
as  being  one  of  the  two  most  success-  Calamity  and  accidents,  for  some 
ful  missionaries  of  the  last  dispensa-  unexplained  reason,  appear  to  plague 
tion,  the  other  being  Orson  Pratt.  the  lives  of  some  individuals.  Wil- 
Elder  Woodruff  had  another  trait  ford  Woodruff  was  one  of  these, 
that  was  of  inestimable  value  to  the  The  list  of  accidents  and  hardships 
Church.    He  was  one  of  the  most  he  suffered,  many  of  which  almost 
faithful  and  accurate  record  keepers  took  his  life,  is  startling,  yet  in  spite 
that  ever  walked  this  earth,  record-  of  these  setbacks,  he  lived  to  a  ma- 
ing  almost  daily  without  fail    the  ture  age  and  enjoyed  great  physical 
events  of  his  life  and  his  personal  vigor.    His  favorite  hymn  was  "God 
reactions  to  the  happenings  of  world  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way,"  which 
history.    It  is  due  to  the  complete-  seemed  to  express  his  feeling  that 
ness  of  his  journals  that  many  of  the  God  was  watching  over  him  in  spite 
facts  and  incidents  of  early  Church  of  his  difficulties  and  was  preserving 
history  have  been  preserved.  him  for  the  work  God  had  planned 
In  the  field  of  pioneering  he  was  for  him  to  accomplish, 
also  important.  He  was  a  robust  Another  characteristic  of  Elder 
man  of  great  physical  strength  who  Woodruff  was  his  close  communion 
insisted  that  we  were  commanded  with  God  through  revelation.  His 
to  labor  as  well  as  to  pray.  He  loved  journals  record  many  dreams  that 
physical  toil  and  operated  a  twenty-  revealed  to  him  the  will  of  God.  He 
acre  farm  south  of  Salt  Lake  even  often  felt  so  strongly  inspired  to  do 
after  he  became  President  of  the  a  certain  thing,  that  he  cast  all  reas- 
Church,  doing  much  of  the  labor  on  and  self-interest  aside  and  fol- 
himself.  In  his  mind,  there  was  no  lowed  the  impression  he  had  re- 
distinction  between  physical,  tem-  ceived,  to  learn  that  a  remarkable 
poral,  and  religious  aspects  of  life—  result  was  achieved,  although  in  the 
they  were  all  inseparably  joined  to-  beginning  he  did  not  know  what  the 
gether  in  his  thoughts.  In  Jackson  consequences  would  be. 
and  Caldwell  counties,  Missouri,  and  At  the  death  of  John  Taylor  in 
later  in  Illinois,  he  helped  establish  July  1887,  Brother  Woodruff,  who 
communities.  The  trek  to  the  had  been  president  of  the  Council 
West  saw  him  engaged  in  these  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  since  1880, 
same  enterprises.  It  was  in  his  car-  assumed  the  direction  of  the  Church 
riage  that  Brigham  Young  rode  dur-  affairs  by  virtue  of  this  calling.  The 
ing  the  closing  days  of  the  journey  Council  of  the  Twelve,  under  his  di- 
into  Salt  Lake  Valley.  Once  in  the  rection,  continued  to  function  as  the 
Great  Basin,  his  life  was  devoted  to  presiding  council  of  the  Church  un-

68 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1949 
We  Suggest  These 
Ladies'  Three-Part  Numbers 
for  your 
RELIEF  SOCIETY 
CHORUS 
3017     Beautiful  Isle  of  Somewhere 
Fearis  — -   -    -     ^IS 
531     Hold  Thou  My  Hand 
Briggs     - 
 -      -IS 
1560     In  the  Garden 
Miles    -       .16 
962     Invocation 
Moore       .16 
2W1511  It  Was  For  Me 
Blount        .15 
1776     King  of  Glory 
Parks            .20 
2010     Leave  It  With  Him 
Ellis  
 15 
1759     Lord  Is  My  Light 
AUitsen   -   16 
1941     Old  Rugged  Cross 
Bennard       .16 
13651     Panis  Angelicus 
Franck      .-..     .15 
0144     Prayer  Perfect 
Stenson   -       -15 
1596     Stranger  of  Galilee 
Morris    _       -IS 
We  specialize  in  music  for  L.D.S. 
choral  groups  of  all  types.  Write 
for  information.  Music  sent  on  ap- 
proval. Mail  orders  filleci  promptly. 
Postage  included  in  prices 
We  also  have  a  complete  stock  of  popular, 
sacred,  and  classical  music  for  home  and 
school.  Representatives  for  Steinway  and 
Lester  pianos,  band  and  orchestra  instruments, 
records,  and  musicians  supplies. 
D  
FIRST   Of   ALL- RtU ABILITY 
aiines  ^ 
45-47   SOUTH       ■  ^J§^  t  g    ^ 
SAir  lAKC  cfrr  %,  utah 
til  April  1889,  when  the  First  Presi- 
dency was  reorganized.  President 
Woodruff  was  sustained  as  President 
and  he  selected  the  same  two  coun- 
selors who  had  so  ably  served  Presi- 
dent Taylor.  The  administration  of 
President  Woodruff  was  a  remark- 
able one.  He  was  eighty-two  years 
of  age  at  the  time  he  became  Presi- 
dent. The  Church  was  engaged  in  a 
struggle  for  its  very  existence. 
The  government  had  confiscated 
the  Church  properties  and  had  dis- 
incorporated the  Church,  and  its 
leaders  had  chosen  to  go  into  hiding 
in  preference  to  receiving  severe  pris- 
on sentences  for  adhering  to  the 
principle  of  plural  marriage. 
It  was  at  this  critical  time  that 
President  Woodruff  issued  the  Man- 
ifesto based  on  a  revelation  which  he 
had  received,  in  September  1890, 
which  made  official  declaration  of 
the  fact  that  the  Church  had  discon- 
tinued the  practice  of  plural  mar- 
riage. At  the  following  general  con- 
ference of  the  Church  held  in  Oc- 
tober the  Manifesto  was  accepted  by 
the  Latter-day  Saints  by  unanimous 
vote.  Thus  it  became  binding  upon 
the  members  of  the  Church. 
Another  work  that  characterized 
the  administration  of  President 
Woodruff  was  the  support  he  gave 
to  Church  education.  The  Church 
entered  the  educational  field  to  pro- 
vide its  members  with  education  be- 
yond elementary  years  and  estab- 
lished many  academies,  which  later 
became  high  schools,  throughout  the 
length  and  breadth  of  the  settle- 
ments made  by  the  saints.  President 
Woodruff  gave  his  whole-hearted 
support  to  this  movement  and  voted 
for  liberal  appropriations  to  further 
this  work.   He  was  also  president  un-