=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (2 segments, 10,251 chars) ===

Roberts 7 Another Mary—Second Prize Poem by Miranda Snow Walton 9 "Infant Daughter of..."—Third Prize Poem by Alice M. Burnett 11 Award Winners—Annual Relief Society Story Contest 12 The Hurrah's Nest—First Prize Story by Estelle Webb Thomas 13 President Belle S. Spafford Elected to Office in the National Council by Priscilla L. Evans 20 Relief Society Building News 22FICTIONJoanna—Chapter 1 by Margery S. Stewart 23 The Dress—Part I by Fay Tarlock 32GENERAL FEATURESSixty Years Ago 26 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 27 Editorial: Renascence 1949 by Marianne C. Sharp 28 Notes to the Field 29 Notes From the Field: Handicraft, Sewing, and Other Activities 41 From Near and Far 72FEATURES FOR THE HOMEQuick and Easy Dinners by Sara Mills 30 How to Make a Kapok Quilt by Ilean H. Poulson 38 The Conductor and the Accompanist by Florence Jepperson Madsen 49 All in a Day's Pleasure by Helen Martin 50LESSON DEPARTMENTTheology: "The Transfiguration" by Elder Don B. Colton 51 Visiting Teachers' Messages: "I Will Not Leave You Comfortless" by Elder H. Wayne Driggs 59 Work Meeting—Sewing: Use Your Odds and Ends by Jean Ridges Jennings 56 Literature: Literary Sidelights of the Founding Years by Elder Howard R. Driggs 57 Social Science: Contemporary Domestic Problems by Elder G. Homer Durham 62 Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Presidency of Wilford Woodruff by Elder T. Edgar Lyon 66POETRYJanuary Snow—Frontispiece by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 1 Artist by Gene Romolo 21 Give Love by Gertrude T. Koven 22 Be Swell by Julene J. Cushing 31 Once Remembered by Wanda Greene Nielson 40 Where White Lilies Grow by Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 50 On Waking by Christie Lund Coles 50 From a Hospital Window by Evelyn Fjeldsted 61 To a Seeing-Eye Dog by Marvin Jones 61 Be Still and Know by Beatrice K. Ekman 65 Prayer by Gladys I. Hamilton 71 Do Hearts Grow? by Josephine J. Harvey 71 Lyric of Being by Ruth Harwood 71 PTIBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No hack numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Relief Society General Presidency Vienna, Swiss-Austrian Mission, for Use; t: Counselor Mananne C Ir Covering Presented by Anna Schrade of Left to righ New Year Greetings to Relief Society I Women Everywhere NCE again the cycle of time brings to us a new year with its promise ~ of new opportunities and experiences and with its rebirth of hope. It is good to face a new year filled with hope, faith, and dreams, to look forward to new opportunities and responsibilities, to anticipate untried undertakings and unexperienced events. It is good to face the new year with the composure and security that come from a firm, unwavering testimony of the gospel. It is good to face the new year fortified by the love, strength, and power that come from membership in a great and divinely inspired sisterhood which reaches out to the far corners of the earth and binds together in closest bonds of fellowship women of many lands. This new year the general board extends its sincere love to the more than 100,000 women throughout the world who comprise the Relief Society sisterhood. May the new year bring to each one the opportunities, privileges, and responsibilities that go into making a good life. We extend to you our deep appreciation for the contribution that each has made to the work of Relief Society during the past year. Your responsibilities have been heavy and unusual in nature and many of your tasks arduous. But with a diligence born of faith in the divinity of the work and with the spirit of loving devotion you have magnificently met each assignment, engraving on the history of Relief Society an enviable record of achievement for the year 1948. As we go forward into another year, may the accomplishments of the past year sustain us. May we realize that each duty we have successfully performed and each task we have mastered have left us better qualified to meet whatever lies ahead. As we go forward into another year may we continue strong in faith and in good works. May there emanate from Relief Society women everywhere a love for mankind. May there be a renewed determination to love the Lord and keep his commandments, for in this we most appropriately speak our gratitude for his manifold blessings unto us and we best equip ourselves to enjoy a happy and successful new year., Affectionately, BELLE S. SPAFFORD MARIANNE C.

---

h schools, throughout the length and breadth of ments made by the saints. President his whole-hearted LESSON DEPARTMENT SE § b Dial 5-665] Park Free i R hile sojourning In California for >. LS health, he died on September 2, 1898, being in his inety-second WI NTE R TE RM year. He ha lived to se the Church Pass throug Sev Ses and begins Monday, January 3 emerge tiumphant. TS missionar System was Covering the Major ngi ot any tats ny 10ns of e Civilized Carth an day or evening Classes The Saints were building beautify] Citi = i leg have the omes and places of worship, and eae. Aes sence were being abundan tly blesseq by th Winter Quarter, ord. The L. D. S. Business College ig fully Qualified by ©XPerience, Joseph F Smith ©quipment, and statt to Give:. That training In the Pr€vious lesson We teferred ee that trainin to the work of eorge O annon Inquiries welcome af any time ho was the first Counselor to PresWrite for free literature Idents Taylor ang Woodruff We, NOW should learn something more L. D. Hy of the other Counselor, Oseph F, Smith, His father, Hyrum, had BUSINESS COLLEGE "en martyred when © Was not yet 70 North Main Phone 3.2765 SIX years of ae. With his widowed Salt Lake ¢ mother Mary Fielding mith and J = 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 GO ELECTRIC ALL THE WAY Electricity does all the household tasks better and at lower cost than any other method. UTAH POWER «& LIGHT CO. 1882-1949 67 years ago on January 16, 1882 (His 27th birthday) Joseph Wm. Taylor, eldest son of Joseph E. Taylor, started in the mortuary profession under his own name, after his return from a mission to the British Isles. Prior to that he had been associated with his father who was the Intermountain West's first mortician, appointed by President Brigham Young. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City those dependent on her, he drove a team of oxen in a pioneer Company to the Salt Lake Valley before he was ten. His mother died when he was thirteen and at the age of fifteen he went on a mission to Hawaii which lasted three years. He later filled other missions to both Great Britain and Hawaii. In 1866 he was ordained to the apostleship and became a member of the Council of the Twelve in 1867. Between his various missions, he served as a member of the City Council of Salt Lake. It was largely due to his efforts that Salt Lake City acquired both Liberty and Pioneer Parks, which survive as lasting memorials to his foresight. Because of his strong testimony, sound judgment, and devotion to the cause of the Lord, President 'Taylor called him to be his second Counselor in 1880 and soon after, because of persecution, President Smith chose to retire from public life with other members of the Presidency. President Taylor sent him to Hawaii where he remained for some time. It was while there that he learned of and procured for publication the manuscript of Solomon Spaulding which had for more than a half century been proclaimed by enemies of the Church as the original of the Book of Mormon. The subsequent publication and its later deposition in Oberlin College Library, exploded the myth of the Spaulding origin of the Book of Mormon. Returning to Utah, he was with President Taylor when he died. President Woodruff, hoping that something could be done to influence the federal government in its treatment of the Church, sent President Smith to Washington, D. C. LESSON DEPARTMENT He spent much of 1888 and 188g in the East, regulating Church financial and immigration affairs as well] as interceding on behalf of the Church with government officials, He was unusually successful in these activities, which contributed to the ultimate amicable settlement of the difficulties with the government. The life of Joseph F. Smith will be further treated in the lesson dealing with his presidency. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. How do you account for the fact that Wilford Woodruff was so sensitive to the Promptings of the Spirit? 2. Review the section in Vol. VI, pp. 354-355 of Robert's Comprehensive History of the Church, entitled "The Place of President Woodruff's Journals in the Church." References Cow ey, Mattutas F -- Wilford Woodtuft (biography), Cow. Ey, Martruts F., Prophets and Pattiarchs, pp. 69-85. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 200-241; 346- ei: ae. Joserpu Fiexpinc, Essentials in Church History, Pp. 603-613. SMITH, JosEPH Fiepinc, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 252-301. Wooprvrr, Witrorp, Leaves From My Journal. ~~ COLOR GUARD Gladys I. Hamilton The whitest things are mountain peaks, All ermine-dressed in snow; The reddest things are berry balls Where the valley haw trees grow. Then up above, the bluest thing Is clearness of blue sky; A color guard reminding me That hope must never die! 71 9° 90 SE Soe SC Soe Professional ae Kowal Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah P9900 0 0 SoH 0¢ DO

=== EXTRACTED ADS ===