[SoH 0¢ DO HEARTS GROW > Josephine J. Harvey They told me when I was small That growing pains were part Of growing tall. I wonder how they would explain This love I feel inside Like a still, deep pain? Could it be this is part Of the growth Of my heart? -—< LYRIC OF BEING Ruth Harwood Each day I try to write The poem of my being A little clearer And a little higher. Each day I ask for light, To consecrate my seeing A little nearer To the holy fire! From Near and Sar I wish to thank you for the splendid work you are doing for me and mine in providing us with such rich spiritual food. The prices of everything being so high, The Relief Society Magazine is the only monthly magazine that comes into our home, but we feel well nourished with its contents. My sincere gratitude goes to Margery S. Stewart for her story '"Seasoning" (November 1948). I am Maury's type of girlhood, gratitude and sincere appreciation for others' kindness to me, even to the awkward ways of expressing it, and, like Elder Fenton, I feel the softening influence of the encouragement of Clara Wells to keep the light which God has kindled and don't let the world rob you of it. The Relief Society Magazine is the only periodical I know of that sustains, strengthens, and upholds the ideals, standards, and morals which the best people in every race love to follow. 'There is a kindred feeling in its messages and stories that very much resemble the atmosphere and environment of our heavyenly home and parents. —Mrs. Rhoda W. Thurston, Hyde Park, Utah The lesson helps are invaluable, enabling the teacher and others to present the material in the best possible way. The visiting teachers' lessons are a distinct aid in this important work. I do appreciate their contents. The Relief Society Magazine was my first contact with the Church and helped to teach me the gospel of Jesus Christ. Thank you again and again. May God bless you abundantly and guide you daily in your work, and help you to guide others to him. —Genevieve G. Scott, Baltimore, Maryland You are doing a wonderful work with the Magazine. To me it is marvelous. I think the lessons have never been so wonderful as now. 'They are surely divinely inspired. —Evva B. Barlow, Santa Monica, California Page]

SoH 0¢ DO HEARTS GROW > Josephine J. Harvey They told me when I was small That growing pains were part Of growing tall. I wonder how they would explain This love I feel inside Like a still, deep pain? Could it be this is part Of the growth Of my heart? -—<