[Meeting Sebruary Q ALTHOUGH Tuesda son has been outlined for Febr their meet; 8S on days in Societies which 2, 19409 is a holiday, a social] science lesvary since some Relief ) other than Tuesday. It j y, February 22, 1949, cial science lesso them together on March 22. Relief Society Assigned Gvening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March 'THE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day in Mar ch 1949, has First Presidency for use by the Relief Society, Quick and Easy Dinners Sara Mills HERE was a time when a person could say, "Come have bread and milk with us," and mean it. In the year 1949, however, entertaining is a little more complicated. And it isn't your fault or mine. As a substitute for bread and milk, I have a number of simple menus. They leave a maximum of visiting time, and what is more important, they also leave the cook with enough energy to want to talk. If they need further recommendation, they are nutritious, an important virtue these days. Either of the two meals listed below can be prepared in an hour—if the cook is nimble. DINNER No.]

Meeting Sebruary Q ALTHOUGH Tuesda son has been outlined for Febr their meet; 8S on days in Societies which 2, 19409 is a holiday, a social] science lesvary since some Relief ) other than Tuesday. It j y, February 22, 1949, cial science lesso them together on March 22. Relief Society Assigned Gvening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March 'THE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day in Mar ch 1949, has First Presidency for use by the Relief Society, Quick and Easy Dinners Sara Mills HERE was a time when a person could say, "Come have bread and milk with us," and mean it. In the year 1949, however, entertaining is a little more complicated. And it isn't your fault or mine. As a substitute for bread and milk, I have a number of simple menus. They leave a maximum of visiting time, and what is more important, they also leave the cook with enough energy to want to talk. If they need further recommendation, they are nutritious, an important virtue these days. Either of the two meals listed below can be prepared in an hour—if the cook is nimble. DINNER No. 1
Canned consomme with crackers or croutons *Baked sweet potatoes with crushed pineapple Fried ham Peas, frozen or canned Tossed green salad Dinner rolls Fruit DINNER No. 2 *Bean, tomato, and sausage casserole *Green salad or cabbage chop suey French bread toasted in oven with garlic butter *Pineapple cream
RECIPES BAKED SWEET POTATOES WITH CRUSHED PINEAPPLE
Sweet potatoes (1 good-sized one for each guest) Can of crushed pineapple (1 small can for each four guests) Butter and salt Page 30
Work for menu No. 1 begins with sweet potatoes.
Bake in a hot oven enough potatoes for each guest and one or two extras. Let the potatoes cool enough to handle, then split them down the center and empty the insides into a large bowl, leaving the skins intact. Add the crushed pineapple, juice and all, then season with salt and butter. Go easy on the salt and be generous with the butter, which may be part margarine, and beat well. Now return the pineapple mixture to the shells, topping each potato with a little butter.
Return to the oven and brown slightly.
Serve immediately.
While the potatoes are baking, open your can or cans of consomme, bring to a boil, and simmer gently for a few minutes.
Serve each cup with a scattering of finely chopped parsley and a thin slice of lemon.
While the consomme is heating, fry your ham gently, timing its finish with the browning of the potatoes.
While the potatoes are browning, cook your frozen peas.
Cook them in a very little water until they are barely tender. For that extra flavor add a few sprigs of parsley and a sprig of fresh mint or fresh thyme and season with cream. If you don't keep French dressing on hand, mix it right after your potatoes are popped into the oven.
Spare a minute somewhere to place your salad greens into a garlic-rubbed bowl, and cover them with a damp cloth and place them in the refrigerator. Don't bring them to the table until the last minute.
Heat your dinner rolls and there you are. For dessert have fresh or canned fruit, chilled. BEAN, TOMATO, AND SAUSAGE CASSEROLE 1 can of red kidney beans or pre-cooked dried beans 1 can of solid pack tomatoes " medium-sized onion sliced and sauteed in butter " green pepper sliced and sauteed with onion in butter QUICK AND EASY DINNERS 1 can of Vienna sausage (small) or 1 can of pork sausage Seasonings: salt, pepper, % tsp. Wor- _ cestershire sauce, paprika, dash of Tabasco sauce Coarse bread crumbs and butter (serves 4-6) Sautee the sliced onions and green pepper in butter until a delicate brown, then add the canned kidney beans or pre-cooked dried beans, the can of solid pack tomatoes, the sliced sausages, and the seasonings.
Bring to a boil and place in a casserole. Top with bread crumbs and dot with butter.
Bake in a 375° oven from one half to three quarters of an hour. CABBAGE CHOP SUEY 1 'tbs.
Bacon fat 4 cups shredded cabbage 1% cups thinly sliced celery. 1 green pepper (bell) sliced thin 1 medium-sized onion sliced thin This is a four-star vegetable dish, crammed with vitamins.
Start shredding your cabbage the second the casserole dish is in the oven.
When the vegetables are prepared, melt the tablespoon of bacon fat in a heavy aluminum dish. Add the vegetables and seasonings and cover tightly.
Steam from eight to twelve minutes.
Twice during the cooking, you may stir the vegetables lightly. The vegetables should be firm, barely cooked through. And serve at once. The recipe gives enough for six.
31 PINEAPPLE CREAM 2 cups milk 2/3 cups sugar. 2 tbs. Cornstarch 2 eggs separated % tsp. Salt 1 small can of pineapple from which juice has been drained This dish can be prepared beforehand, but if necessary, it can be made after the beans are in the oven and before the cabbage dish is started.
Heat the milk in a double boiler. Mix the dry ingredients and add gradually to the milk, stirring constantly while the milk thickens.
Cook twelve minutes, then add the beaten egg yolks to which a little of the milk mixture has been added.
Stir and cook for three more minutes.
Remove from heat and add.
Pineapple and whites of eggs beaten stiff.
Cool and serve with pineapple sauce, PINEAPPLE SAUCE / Juice from crushed pineapple and enough water to make a cup 1 tbs.
Lemon juice 1 tbs. Flour 1/3 cup sugar 1 tbs. Butter Heat the liquid. Mix the flour and sugar and add to the hot liquid.
Cook until clear. Add lemon juice and butter -and cool.
Serve this dinner with a basket of French bread and garlic seasoned butter, hot from the oven. Hot chocolate may be served with it also. > A SNOWFALL Julene J. Cushing Let me keep the white peace of this day, When glistening snow banks the garden wall, And lines the lilac trees, each mounded spray Majestic as a frozen waterfall. Let me hold cool shadows from the space Where honeysuckle points a silver wand, And crusted patterns fringed in icy lace, Now frame an etching on the lily pond. THE DRESS rupted us so many times I feel justified."
Janie did not raise her eyes. "Ts it,' Miss Ardman went on with controlled patience, "because you have work to do, or is it just because it is too hard to get up in time?" I wonder if she has ever waked up with the light just strong enough to show the stained wallpaper and felt like there was a cold hand in her stomach, Janie thought resentfully. She hasn't wondered what was going to happen after high school. She hasn't stared at the torn place in the paper and known there was nothing ahead. ISS Ardman had a way of lifting up her face as if she knew exactly what she was going to say. She knew where she was going and how.
When the silence grew too awkward, Janie said, without lifting her eyes, "It's because I hate to get up." Miss Ardman sighed, a gentle sigh.
Then her face lighted as if she had a sudden idea. "That," she said, "is a fault common to us all.
Have you ever heard of Marcus Aurelius, Janie?"
Janie shook her head and some members of the class snickered. "Marcus Aurelius lived way back in the second century," Miss Ardman said, placing her hands in front of her and looking directly at Janie. "He was both a ruler and a philosopher. He was also a warrior and quite prominent in his day. Yet he had the same trouble you have. He hated to get up in the morning.
Would you like to hear how he overcame his difficulty?" 33
The class was very still.
Janie could hear their breathing while they looked at her. "I guess so," she said diffidently, returning their gaze.
Opening a little brown book on her desk, Miss Ardman read: In the morning, when thou nisest unwillingly, let this thought be present— I am nising to the work of a human being. Why then am I dissatisfied if I am going to do the things for which I exist and for which I was brought into this world? Or have I been made for this, to lie in the bedclothes and keep myself warm? She closed the little book and took off her glasses. It was very quiet in the room. "Perhaps," she said, smiling into Janie's sullen hazel eyes, "if you regard this class as part of your work in the world, you could have a little more enthusiasm for it. Do you think you could?"
Maybe this was the end of the scolding. "Sure, I'll try," Janie answered affably. She waited for the teacher to resume reading.
Before she picked up her glasses, Miss Ardman looked out of the window.
Then she pulled her top drawer open and took out a notebook. "I have permission from Mr.
Symes to take up some class matters.
Since we do not seem to be in the mood for poetry, we will discuss your problems."
There was a pleasant stir in the class. "I sure got us out of some old poetry," Janie thought, pleased with herself. "Tt is about the senior class play," Miss Ardman was saying. Janie's elation passed. She knew about the old play, had even gone to a reading of it.
Janie had not even bothered to write her part 34 preference. A fat chance she had of getting a part! "Last night I cast the play," Miss Ardman pronounced. "I took into consideration your choices; for the most part they coincided with my judgment.
Here is the list. If for any reason any one of you is not satisfied, see me _ privately after class." She opened the notebook and began to read.
Janie doodled with her pencil, interested in a detached way. The parts were just about as she would have cast them. John Rons had the lead, naturally.
John was studentbody president, star of football and track, and he was going to be a lawyer.
Life had made Janie into a realist. She did not often waste time thinking of John Rons, but if chance had given her a fur coat, a convertible car, a diamond ring, her home painted inside and out, a tip to Florida, and a year's supply of frozen foods, along with a complete wardrobe, she would have traded everything straight over for a date with John Rons. The girls' parts, except for the lead and the maid and the cook, were about equal.
Doreen and Janice, the two most popular girls in school, were right for the college girls. Now all the parts, except that of Marjorie, John's girl friend in the play, were read. When Miss Ardman came to the last name, there was an expectant hush.
Janie told herself that she didn't care who got it. "Marjorie," Miss Ardman read, "Janie Carlson."
Then she closed the notebook. TANIE'S mouth flew open as if some one had pressed a button. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949
She couldn't believe what she had heard. It must be true for all the class members were staring at her. And John Rons wasn't controlling his displeasure. Miss Ardman ignored the stares. "IT wish every one of you could have a part in the play," she told them, opening the notebook again. "And there is a place for everyone in the production of the play." She went on to read the names of those who would assume the work of production. Everyone in the class of twenty-five had a job. Rehearsal, she said, would be in the afternoon, beginning today. The play would be ready in a little over a month's time. When the electric bell rang the seniors filed out, talking excitedly. No one came to congratulate Janie except Amy Huff, the homeliest girl in the class and an excellent student. "I know you can do it, Janie," she said in her kind, low voice. "Gee, I don't see why she picked on me," said Janie scornfully as she gathered up her books and papers, "T've never been in a play before." "Don't you want to be in a play?" Janie almost jumped. Miss Ardman was standing in the aisle opposite her. "Why yes," she admitted, twisting her handkerchief and chewing the forbidden gum in her embarrassment, "only some of the others would be better, I guess." "T think you'll do very well." Then the teacher placed her slender long fingers on the sleeve of Janie's rusty brown coat and said in a lowered voice, "I want you to do the part well, and you can—if you are willing to work. After rehearsal, } elp you with your her books and started to set the voice and Posture? There até afew table. Tricks that wil] help a lot." "You couldn' "Why, £0sh, Miss Ardma an, could you?" bet [I] anie put down her her mother asked hopefully, Ooks and in her enthusiasm Pressed ¢ only "vening dress [ ve seen er hands together untj] the knuckher Wear ls a black one. We ve all €s showed white 'TI work al] Got to be dressed in Sptingtime night if it will do any good," dresses, brigh and fluffy, like th Just ag little hard work before Play itself, She did want to tell edtime wil] Be sufficient," Miss er mother that she would like this Ardman answered pumly, Whe be ard i] anie felt herself blushing again ino?" He ae ie other eins, Wear 'Tl make It to class early, J Prom- 6 Is€." She 1 "Janice has 4
New green chiffon and Amy, her J; ead Soaring, her limbs light and = e. Pink, "S pa? And warm. It was true, Atdman said mine could be White." Janie Cut the Téad in thick slices as she spoke, school a w eK or go later, it "Why, at's fine," Mrs. Carlson 'vas almost dark, 'ler mother "ee said, her tired face beaming. 'TI In the lean-to kitchen, Cooking Supmake one that will do fo; gradua Per, her brothers and sisters Playing tion, too." In the front yatd. "Yo, failed Mrs ae atsh again" ning dress, Jt can be Cut low and have gq full, swish skirt 'T told Mrs, Marsh ] Couldn't It has to be a take care of her childre Was r | yTs.
Carlson stooped to o €n the about." Janie's voice even door, "Yo, II just have to Was toneless as she threw her books make one dress do for both." on the table and washed her hands anie was silent. She knew Ma at the kitchen sink, She ad re Would get her the dress if she could Catsed for ty, hours and spent anShe picked UP her American histo other hour w th Miss Ardman The book and balanced jt on her head itchen seemed shabbier, more Ik OPpeless turn, "why did you id, stuf. Ear Ver, watched slight Ng some woo Into the stove anger rise in her mother's face and "T can't rehearse al] afternoon and subside.
Tend kids, too," Janie Started to Say, ul she che 36 you. I liked him for some of the things you like in Don."
Janie was shocked into sudden understanding. "You mean that he was like Don, good fun at a dance or at a party?" "He was, but he was more, too. He was a good boy."
Janice could feel her mother's eyes on her. "He was always a good worker," Mrs.
Carlson emphasized. "And he didn't have the bad habits Don has. I can tell you now," she ended, looking searchingly at Janie, "I've had a lot more out of life than you') ever get if you marry Don Betger." "Oh, I'm not going to marry Don," Janie retorted lightly as she resumed her posture walking. But she felt cold inside.
When she contemplated marriage, it was to have far more than she saw at home. And I'm going to have more, she promised herself harshly. She heard the rattle of her father's car outside and put down the book. No matter what, she decided, Ill have the right dress for the play. 'THE rehearsal period was nearly over; still Janie had not mentioned the dress again to her mother. One late afternoon she lagged behind the others, waiting for Miss Ardman, humiliation and _resentment within her for what had just happened. It began in the love scene with John Rons. Miss Ardman told him to kiss Marjorie now and hereafter in rehearsal. "Oh, gee, Miss Ardman, do I have to do it every time?"
John had pleaded, distaste in his voice. "If youll let me off in rehearsals, I'll do it big the night of the play. I promise I will." The others had laughed cruelly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 and John had retreated, leaving Janie alone on the stage in her humiliation. It took self-control to keep Janie in the auditorium.
Only the thought of more laughter when ~ she walked out had held her. "There's no need for further private instructions, as I've told you before, Janie," Miss Ardman said, a slight note of exasperation in her voice. "You've shown marvelous improvement. 'The twang is all but gone.
Just keep up the work at home," she ended kindly.
Janie knew the teacher was tired, dead tired. She wished there was no need to bother her. "I'll keep trying, right up to the last," she promised meekly. "But can I— may I walk home with you?" She knew her face was red. "Of course," Miss Ardman_ treplied. "Just hold these while I gather my papers to be graded." She placed her books in Janie's hands.
Outside it was early twilight. The trees with their swollen buds were sweet with the promise of spring. The mountains towered dark and quiet beyond the town.
Janie and the teacher walked in _ silence, breathing the soft air. "All you need,' Miss Ardman said suddenly, "is to have a little more confidence, a little more spontaneity." Janie's smile was forced. "All I need is to change everything, I guess." "You're feeling sorry for yourself!" Miss Ardman said it sharply. "You saw John this afternoon." Janie's voice was bitter and it came from deep inside her. "John Rons is a conceited young THE DRESS?? Man." Miss Ardman spoke too quickly. "Don't worry about it." "Oh, I've got along without any special attention from him."
Janie tried to give her words a light touch. "T can worry along. But," she said with deep conviction, "he wouldn't hate me that night if I had a pretty dress to wear." She felt as if a ton had dropped from her. It was good to have Miss Ardman know. Miss Ardman stopped so suddenly that she almost stumbled into a pool of still brown water. "You're going to be able to get the dress, aren't you Janie?" Her voice was rising. "I told you about it the first day and you promised." "Oh, Ma will make me a dress all right, but Til still be Janie Carlson and the others will be the characters in the play." "I let you into this,' Miss Ardman deliberated, looking ahead, "Tl have to see you through." Hot tears stung Janie's cheeks.
They walked together to the big red brick house where Miss Ardman boarded and into her room. It was, Janie thought, a lovely room, with its white ruffled curtains and matching spread.
There was a desk with a shelf of books above it. Miss Ardman silently placed her books on the desk and opened the closet door.
Slowly she removed a large zippered bag and opened the zipper -and removed a dress from inside. ANIE'S mouth snapped open again. In all her dreams she had never thought of such a dress. It was made of yards and yards of frosty white organdy embroidered in red dots the color of a cluster of shining cherries caught in the red velvet of the tiny waist band. The 37 bodice was close fitting and cut from the shoulders. And there was a filmy plaited bertha to frame the face. Out of the bottom of the bag, Miss Ardman extracted a pair of red satin pumps. For all her naivete, Janie knew this dress would make the others look commonplace. She sat on the floor, tears welling to her eyes. Her face was luminous with rapture as she asked, "I may wear it?" Miss Ardman held the dress out, admiring its swirling folds. "I suppose I'm a fool to let you wear it," she said more to herself than to Janie. Her slender fingers carressed the folds of the skirt. "It's a special dress. I've never worn it.
Mother sent it to me because all through college I didn't have a really pretty dress.
Lack of money and lack of materials, but now the beautiful materials are back. I was saving it for the May Ball."
Janie knew what she meant. The May Ball was the biggest dance of the year in Ronsville. "My fiance, he was a naval officer and now he is a medical student in his last year at the University, is coming," Miss Ardman said in a sudden burst of confidence. "I wanted him to see me in it first.
Janie nodded her head solemnly. She also knew that she was the first student to know about the fiance. Miss Ardman smiled down at her serious face. "It will be your Cinderella dress, but midnight will come for you when the curtain falls. Don't forget it!" She placed the dress reverently back into the zippered bag.
Janie got to her feet, her face rapt and serious. "I promise," she said. (To be concluded) How to Make a Kapok Quilt Ilean H. Poulson NE of the most attractive () and useful gifts I have ever received was a kapok-filled baby quilt. It was given to me by my husband's mother when our first baby arrived nearly six years ago.
Since then we have made three additional quilts of this type. 'They are favorites with our children because they combine attractiveness with unusual softness, warmth, and little weight. — Because of the scarcity of kapok during the war years we were able to made only small quilts.
Adults who have used quilts filled with kapok claim that the insulating properties of this material make it equally useful for filling light summer quilts. The following directions indicate the steps necessary to make the quilt. 'The same procedure can be used for a down-filled quilt if you are fortunate enough to possess enough down for the purpose.
Secure enough medium weight unbleached muslin or ordinary flour sacks to make a bag as wide as you wish the quilt to be made and twice the desired length.
Fold across the center and join the ends, but do not join the sides of the quilt.
Machine stitch through the center, lengthwise.
Then begin at one end and sew across the quilt at intervals of about eight inches to form two sets of deep pockets. The pockets are then filled with kapok. I use one pound for a large Page 38 crib quilt, less for smaller ones.
Divide the kapok evenly among the pockets and sew the sides to prevent the escape of the down-like kapok. The kapok is then distributed evenly throughout each pocket and a row or two of loose basting stitches lengthwise through each pocket will aid in keeping it in place, preventing bunching.
Machine stitching, especially if it is very close, reduces the softness of the finished quilt. APOK quilts should not be washed. (Experience was my teacher, and a good one.) They do seem to enjoy frequent outings on the clotheslines to air and sun.
Since it is essential that the cover be washed when used for infants, we made outside coverings that were removable and washable. My favorite covering is a colorful patchwork top made of soft, bright percale scraps pieced together with flour sacks that were dyed bright yellow. The lining for this cover was also made from the same bright yellow material.
Care must be taken to select only very soft materials for this purpose if the fluffy kapok is to show off to best advantage. The cover and lining are placed with the right sides together and seamed along both sides and one end.
Make sure that the quilt and the covering will fit perfectly by using the same measurements for HOW TO MAKE A KAPOK QUILT each.
Then turn to the right side and slip the completed covering over the kapok-filled bag. To complete the quilt, after the inner bag is properly fitted within the cover, close the open end of the cover, with small invisible stitches. The quilt is then tied with yarn in the same way that grandmother used to tie the heavy woolen quilts of her day.
Quilting or tying this type of quilt too close- 39 ly tends to pack the kapok. Therefore, it should be tied only where necessary to hold the inside bag and the cover in place. It then takes but a moment to snip the ties and remove the cover to launder it. If, after use, the kapok becomes somewhat lumpy it can be fluffed by lightly pulling the lumps apart with the hands.
This can easily be done without removing the cover. Joanna (Continued from page 25) HE noticed suddenly that the room had grown dark and that she had not heard the children for some time. She rose hastily and went in search of them.
They were at the far end of the block, watching a neighbor rake autumn leaves into a burning pile for the delight of his children.
There were two of them.
They raced around their father, shouting with delight when sparks showered around them. The man caught them and held them wnder each arm, laughing over them, pride in his face. Joanna's children stood shyly back from the blaze, spectators only, taking the new role humbly. "Children," Joanna cried, unaware of the tears scattering from her eyes. "It's time for supper. Did you forget? Let's have a race home."
They leaped around her like puppies. "Race! Race!
Should we give Sally and Mike a head start?" "Oh, yes. David, you and Penny get way back here. Farther, much farther." Her voice had a queer catch in it, but they didn't seem to notice. 'Now, run!"
They sped away from her; leaves whirled up from their feet. She watched their fleeing forms.
Penny ran like a doe, fleet and wild, her dark hair streamed behind her.
David ran with his head down, his arms close at his sides.
Michael laughed when he ran, spurts of laughter, pushed out of his fat body.
Sally only pretended to run, not really interested in such a boisterous business.
Penny reached the porch first. She straddled the railing, waiting for Joanna. "Look, Mom, the street is pretty now. It gets pretty at night when the houses are hidden."
Joanna followed her daughter's 40 eyes. It was true. The houses were hidden by shadows, their windows were cheerful with the bright golden light streaming out of them. The dark night seemed caught in the black, stripped branches of the cottonwoods. Suddenly Joanna shivered.
Wiainter was not far off, almost she could hear it, baying on the hills like a gaunt white wolf. She herded the children into the house, sent them to the bathroom to be washed by Penny. She warmed a casserole dish of stewed chicken and noodles, cleared the table and set it with her own preserves, with thick slices of homemade bread and with fresh country butter that one of the women had brought from Brigham. The children sat in their accustomed places.
They stared silently at the chair where their father had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949 _sat.
Their small faces grew sharp.
Joanna sat hastily in the vacant chair. She bowed her head. "David, you ask the blessing."
They ate hungrily, with the intense enjoyment of healthy children.
Joanna watched them, her hands folded in her lap..
Love and fear and loss shook her in turn.
Suddenly she could bear it no longer, the smell of hot chicken, the singing of the kettle on the range, the children's lamplit faces. She rose and went to her room. She knelt beside the rocker, her face leaning against the knuckles of her hands. Her breast seemed torn with the whispered cry " rel haven't anyone but thee. I know I have made mistakes, done foolish things Forgive me and help me now, I humbly pray." (To be continued ) ONCE REMEMBERED Wanda Greene Nielson I tried to ease my aching heart, And turned from love away; — I never once remembered you The first monotonous day! I schooled my heart and trained my thoughts So very well! At length I took a stroll down memory's lane, Just to test my strength.
Weighted to a burden, Sharpened to a pain, Love with its hurting Is in my heart again. — FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted' for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. HANDICRAFT, SEWING, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond. NORTHERN STATES MISSION, NORTH INDIANA DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS PREPARE CLOTHING DISPLAY Left to right: Second Counselor Hattie Prim, Peru Branch; First Counselor Rowena Steele, Fort Wayne; President Lenora Moody, Lafayette; District President Ruby Blombach; First Counselor (in district) Edna Terry; President Martha Hakes, South Bend. In reporting on the children's dress project in her mission, President Elna P.
Haymond writes: "The entire project (mission wide) has been completed...
Many letters of appreciation for being asked to help with the project have come from the mission. The sisters have expressed joy and satisfaction in being able to give this service to the children in Europe. We received and sent to Germany 1020 dresses, forty slips, and some other articles, all of them new, and, for the most part, made by the sisters." Page 41 
42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949
Photograph submitted by Maude F. Hanks SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), FIVE PRESIDENTS WHO HAVE RENDERED LONG AND FAITHFUL SERVICE Seated, left to nght: Elizabeth C. Williams, seventh president (1927-1940); Nettie D. Bradford, fifth president (1917-1925); Hattie C. Jensen, fourth president (1915- 1917); Sister Jensen passed away in April, soon after the photograph was taken. Standing, Maude F. Hanks, present president, Salt Lake Stake Relief Society (1940- Other notable women who have ably directed the Relief Society of this pioneer stake are: M. Isabella Horne, Clarissa S. Williams, Harriet B. Harker, and Vilate N. Bennion. Photograph submitted by Dora Thompson POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, September g, 1948
Lucille Denkers is stake chorister and Vena Hess, stake organist, at the pipe organ and Melba Richardson at the piano. Helga Pugmire is president of Pocatello Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 43
Photograph submitted by Rula W. Choules SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, MYRTLE BEACH BRANCH (SOUTH CARO. LINA) RELIEF SOCIETY, WHICH HAS RECENTLY TREBLED ITS MEMBERSHIP Front row, left to right: Elder James H. Bell, Jr.; Betty Jean Jennings; Hilmer Bair; Pauline Owens; Geraldine Owens; Mary E. Owens; Virginia Stalvey; Lucy Andrews; Lorraine Taylor; Doucille Smith; Elder Leland O. Anderson. Back row, left to right: Delores Anderson; Inez Stalvey; Secretary Elma Bone; Second Counselor Vera Stalvey; President Alberta Bone; First Counselor Cordelia Jennings; Clare Bone; Ava Owens; Barbara Carroll. On June 6, 1948, this society was organized with six members, which very soon increased to eighteen. They had made their Building Fund contribution by July 24th. They are participating in Welfare work, doing very fine work in their sewing layettes and quilts, and preparing for their bazaar. Rula W. Choules is president of the Southern States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Jennie Bylund SANTAQUIN-TINTIC STAKE (UTAH) SANTAQUIN FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS The service of these eight former Relief Society presidents and the present president dates from 1925. At the present time they are all active in various phases of Relief Society work. _ Front row, left to right: Mary H. Nelson; Clara J. G. Lemenar; Julia O. Peterson; Olive L. Greenhalgh; Erma K. Cloward; Trilma D. Jarvis. Back row, left to right: Harriet C. Hudson; Mary J. D. Sylvester; Emma K. Wall, present president. 
44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949
Photographs submitted by Ethel E. Bloomquist SWEDISH MISSION, RUG WEAVING IN MALMO AND GOTEBORG Sister Anderson of Malmo and Sister Wanja Nelson of Goteborg are shown weaving rugs for the Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ermadene Olsen CENTRAL STATES MISSION, JUNCTION CITY (KANSAS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS AND ELDERS Front row, left to right: First Counselor Rose Hildebrand; President Etna Smith; Second Counselor Gerva Lichtliter; Joann Hoover. Back row, left to right: Bird Corcoran; Lucy Ellis; Carrie Snyder; Elders Gailey, Ethington, and Jenkins. The faithful sisters of this small branch are seen displaying a patchwork quilt which they made. This branch exceeded its building fund quota and the workers are devoted to all Relief Society activities. Martha W. Brown is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45
Photograph submitted by Vera Walker YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO), FARMINGTON WARD, EIGHT RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, April 1, 1948
Left to right: Mae Cardon; Iretta Lee; Mae Schofield; Lydia Wade; Harriet Foutz, stake president; Lucy Burnham; Bessie McGee; Georgana Lillywhite, present president. A social honoring these presidents was held in the newly completed Relief Society room. Ach president was given a corsage of gold-colored flowers, tied with blue ribbon, the official colors of Relief Society. A tribute was paid to each president by First Counselor Lucy Foutz, and Stake President Harriet D. Foutz gave an instructive talk. Photograph submitted by Belle Hadlock NORTH WEBER STAKE (UTAH), RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND FASHION SHOW MODELS, April 25, 1948
Front row, left to right: Louis Dunn; Alice Barrett; Nancy Ann Price; Evelyn Hunter; Allen Barrett; Mabel Checketts; Beth Checketts; Ines Penrod, work meeting leader; Patsy Heslop; Anna Price; Delliah Larsen, work meeting leader; Linda Wright, Dora Knight, work meeting leader; Katherine Knight; Janice Stratford; Lynn Burrows. Back row, left to right, work meeting leaders: Vera Stratford; Aleine Stratford; Elizabeth Gibson; Dorthea Shutts. Models Beth Gibson and Charollette Green; Leila Heslop; First Counselor Mary Russell; President Melva Stratford; Second Counselor Amanda Hancock; stake work meeting leader, Belle Hadlock; ward work meeting leaders, Rose Hadley and Ethel Williams; Mary Wiggens; Edna Stewart. Melva O. Stratford is president of North Weber Stake Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949
Photograph submitted by Ruby S. Hunn SHARON STAKE (UTAH), EDGEMONT WARD PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 1948
Left to right: Eva G. Gillespie (1926-1928); Margaret G. Pulsipher (1928- 1929); Elizabeth B. Ferguson (1929-1932); Loua W. Wiscombe (1932-1935)3
Racheal H. Mecham (1938-1941); Joella L. Baum (1941-1945); Bernice L. Faulkner (1945- 1947); Almira T. Johnson (1947- s LaVern D. Jone, who served from 1935 to 1938, ls deceased. Ruby S. Hunn is president of Sharon Stake Relief Society. A. Price CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, GOLD CAROLINA) RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Photograph submitted by Mabel SBORO (NORTH Seated, front row, left to right: First Counselor Roberta Buck; Second Counselor Mattie Cuddington; President Henrietta Cogdell. Second row, seated left to right: Eula Cogdell; Bertie Epps; Alice Cogdell; Billy Aycock; Henrietta Ham; Everette Cart. Right: Nancy Sholar; Bertha Cart; Mildred Malfass. Back row, standing, left to Note the display of beautiful handwork, the beautifully made quilts, the rugs, and the aprons. This branch is devoted to the work of Relief Society, and they are united and happy in their activities., Mabel A. Price is president of the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 47
Photograph submitted by Orlinda N. Ware EMERY STAKE (UTAH), CLEVELAND WARD, SEVEN RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Left to right: Rosanna R. Anderson; Ida Mortensen; Kate Erickson; Charlotte Larsen; Grace E. Stokes; Helga Stokes; Alice Larsen. Rosanna R. Anderson is the present president of Cleveland Ward Relief Society and Orlinda N. Ware is stake president. Photograph submitted by Victoria Lyon WEST JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), BINGHAM WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ASSEMBLED FOR FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF ITS ORGANIZATION April 27, 1948
Second row, standing, left to right: MaRee Nelson, sewing instructor; Hannah Sanderson, assistant secretary; Nora Austin, organist; Maurine Nichols, nursery class leader ; Edna Thomas, chorister; Evelyn Rawlings, theology class leader; Rela Beck-stead, stake counselor; Stake President Dora B. Callicott; Ward President Victoria R.
Lyon; First Counselor Elfie Reid; Second Counselor Crysta Woodland; Lovantha Garrett, visiting teachers' class leader; Florence Jenkins, assistant to work director; Blanche
Reid, literature class leader; Mary Raby, social science leader; Ruth Jacques; Willadeen
Householder.
Seated in the front row are other officers and teachers, including several former presidents and counselors.

48
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JANUARY 1949
Photograph submitted by Alice Carlin
GRIDLEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) GRIDLEY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY
VISITING TEACHERS MAKE 100% RECORD (October 1947-September 1948)
Front row, left to right: Pearl Tolly; May Farnsworth; Pansy Gardner; Florence
Keith; Ethel Smith; Yvonne Cameron; Barbara Price; Myrtle Clyde; Fayette Sorenson;
Edna Richins; Second Counselor Helen Jo Stoddard; President Alice Carlin; First
Counselor Eulalia Jensen.
Second row, left to right: Bessie Sonnor; Agnes Shirley; Lillis Jones; Gertrude
Scott; Reba Quist; Maud Rice; Nellie Richins; Dora Davenport; Ludeen Waters.
Third row, left to right: Selma Walton, Rowena Rice; Hannah Gottiker; Modean
Marler; Rachel Bate; Fay Sorenson; Mamie Little; Jane Scott.
Fourth row, left to right: Elda Kelley; Grace Thorpe; Dorothy Fife; Katy Cameron; Martha Stewart.
Alice I. Ferrin is president of Gridley Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Maud E. Groscost
TOOELE STAKE (UTAH) TOOELE FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY
PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY,
March 15, 1948
Front row, left to right: Nelhe Gordon (1934-36); Mary Eckman (1936-39);
Leona Boyce (1939); Florence Johnson (1939-1940); Lucille Orme (1940-41 and ■1943-45); Jennie Wallin (1941-43).
Back row, left to right: Sadie Smith (1923-34); Addie Vowles (1919-23); Effic
Lindberg, representing her mother, Susanna Dunn (1912-1916); Alice McLaws, representing her mother, Sarah Marsden (1916-19); Margaret Wright, present president;
Hazel Smith (1945-47).
Each of the ten presidents and the two women representing the deceased presidents, were presented with corsages and each responded with a toast.
Emma R. Hanks is president of Tooele Stake Relief Society.

The Conductor and the Accompanist
FJoicnce Jepperson Madsen
Member, Relief Society General Board
THE conductor is primarily a teacher. To be a successful teacher one must be progressive and to be progressive one must constantly study. This study should be directed toward the acquisition of added knowledge pertaining to the leadership intended. Such knowledge may be gained from various sources. To be properly and fully effective these sources must be reliable. They may be in the form of music teachers, lecturers, books, records, radios, etc.
One of the very best means of gaining musical knowledge is through the study of the piano and the organ. Even in remote places a school music teacher or supervisor may be found who can be induced to teach the fundamentals of music either privately or to a group.
The library in any sizable community should have on its shelves a few good music textbooks for study. If such books are not immediately available they can often be secured through a request to the librarian. A music magazine such as The Etude is most helpful. It contains very valuable information in the various branches of musical education.
Some of the necessary qualities a conductor should possess are: musicianship, dynamic and inspiring personality, congeniality, patience, humor, quick discernment, self-control, tactfulness, appreciation, impartiality, and administrative ability.
The position of the accompanist is of parallel importance with that of the conductor. In order to successfully fulfill the requirements of this position the accompanist should have adequate musical training, with special emphasis on piano or organ or both. This training should include ample technique and sufficient skill to read and play at sight compositions of, at least, moderate difficulty. Like the conductor, the accompanist should continually study and practice toward greater efficiency in musical performance.
This broader training should also include a knowledge of conducting and singing.
The major responsibilities and qualifications of the accompanist may be summed up as follows:
1. To assist the conductor in the performance of her duties and even function as a conductor when needed.
2. To furnish the necessary accompaniment.
3. To help establish and maintain the appropriate rhythmical background of a composition.
4. To play accurately and support adequately the various vocal parts as needed in a rehearsal.
5. To assist in effecting the correct tempos, attacks, dynamics, releases, and to help in bringing about suitable vi'ord, chord, and phrase nuances.
6. Finally in order to be of maximum service in the interpretation of a song,
Page 49

50
RELIEF SO CIETY MAGAZINE— JANUARY 1949 the accompanist should be thoroughly familiar with the text of the composition.
It should be remembered that often the accompanist has had more musical training than the conductor and can, therefore, if given opportunity, make vital contributions to the success of the organization.
Thus it is seen that the responsibilities and qualifications of the conductor and the accompanist are extensive and very closely interwoven.
[Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers' and organists' department at union meeting.]
All in a Day's Pleasure
Helen Martin
I always throw the crumbs from the table in front of my kitchen window. When
I am washing my dishes the birds keep me company. They do love my crumbs and I love their chatter. I always have flocks of my feathered friends waiting in the lilac bushes for my morning offering.
Cookies! Don't you love them, but don't you hate to roll them out? I don't roll cookies any more. I just drop them by teaspoonfuls onto the baking sheet. Then I put a clean cloth over a glass tumbler, wet the cloth (not too wet) and gently press down the dough. It makes lovely round cookies. If I keep the cloth just wet enough it never sticks. '
My youngest son never hangs anything up! So when I find his school pants gone from his favorite chair, or his shirt hung up, I investigate. There it is — a tear in the knee of his best school pants! When I ask him about it, it is always the other fellow who pushed him down. He is the fellow, though, who has to pay for the damage by doing an extra job around the house every night and morning for two weeks.
This same youngster can never keep his shirt tail in nor his hair combed. There never was a "doings" of any kind that I didn't have to go up the last minute and straighten him up.
THE VIGIL
Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
The walls are looped with cobwebs;
Each window shade's awry;
The fire-grate is broken;
The shrubs outside are dry.
A smell of musty dankness
Pervades the lonesome air,
But I feel a something precious
That still is lingering there.
This was a home — a sanctum —
Where a spirit came to be.
Composed of part of each of us
Who were a family.
And so, tonight, returning,
Alone, reluctantly,
I find that spirit waiting
And bless its permanency.
NEW YEAR
Chiistie Lund Coles
Now as the old year dies
Let us forget
The aching bitterness,
The sharp regret;
The moment when it seemed
The heart must break.
The emptiness of loss.
The lonely ache.
Now as the old year dies
Let us pretend
The past has really come
To this swift end.
And let us hold the faith
Till it is true
That this hour is the start
Of a year . . . New!

LESSON
DEPARTMENT cJheology^ — The Life and Ministry, of the Savior
Lesson 15— ^'The Transfiguration''
Elder Don B. Colton
(Reference: Jesus the Chiist, Chapter 23, by Elder James E. Talmage)
For Tuesday, April 5, 1949
Objective: To become acquainted with one of the outstanding events of the Savior's earthly ministry.
Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text
Jesus the Chiist.
A BOUT a week after the apostles had been given the testimony that *7^sus is the Christ, the Son of the hving God/' the Savior took
Peter, James, and John and went with them to a high mountain.
There the three aposties were permitted to witness a heavenly manifestation, which is probably without a parallel in history. They were witnesses to the Transfiguration of Christ. The mountain on which the transfiguration occurred is not definitely known. It was probably
Mt. Hermon in the northerly part of Palestine.
One purpose of the Lord in going to the mountain was to engage in prayer. While he was thus engaged, the three apostles fell asleep. Great glory came upon the Lord while he prayed, *'. . . and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light" (Matt. 17:2). The apostles were awakened by the "surpassing splendor of the scene." They were permitted to behold their Lord in a glory they had not seen before.
With him were two other personages, Moses and Elias, 'who appeared in glory." These two were talking with Jesus. Let us get the reality of the glorious scene. Two men who had once lived upon the earth but had since passed from earthly scenes, were back now in a state of ''glorified radiance," talking to the Being they had served so well.
They were talking with the Christ concerning "his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem."
Undoubtedly the three apostles were bewildered. Who would not be?
As the two visitors were about to leave, "Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he said." This remark, made by Peter, may have been occasioned because of the custom to erect a small booth of wattled boughs for each worshiper at the Feast of the Tabernacles.

The suggestion was not granted. Instead there came "a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him."

When the disciples heard the voice they "fell on their face, and were sore afraid. And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid. And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, save Jesus only."

What did this manifestation accomplish? "It was designed of God to more perfectly establish in their minds his divine Sonship, and thus better fit them for the trials, sorrows, and conflicts which awaited them when he should be taken from them." The manifestation was also important as a means of strengthening Jesus for the experiences which lay ahead, particularly the crucifixion.

The law and the prophets, as represented by Moses and Elias, bore witness of him. The Father bore witness of him. The Spirit bore witness of him. Could there be more complete testimony than this?