[SOUTH | Wt ') G. " f) SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH MAIN STREET —————— —— —_—_—_— ——————— til April 1889, when the First Presidency was reorganized. President Woodruff was sustained as President and he selected the same two counselors who had so ably served President Taylor. The administration of President Woodruff was 4 remartkable one. He was eighty-two years of age at the time he became President. 'The Church was engaged in a struggle for its very existence. The government had confiscated the Church properties and had disincorporated the Church, and its leaders had chosen to £0 into hiding in preference to receiving severe puson sentences for adhering to the principle of plural marriage. It was at this critical time that President Woodruff issued the Manifesto based on a revelation which he had received, in September 1890, which made official declaration of the fact that the Church had discontinued the practice of -plural marriage. At the following general conference of the Church held in October the Manifesto was accepted by the Latter-day Saints by unanimous yote. Thus it became binding upon the members of the Church. Another work that characterized the administration of President Woodruff was the support he gave to Church education. The Church entered the educational field to pro vide its members with education beyond elementary years and _ established many academies, which later became high schools, throughout the length and breadth of ments made by the saints. President his whole-hearted LESSON DEPARTMENT SE § b Dial 5-665] Park Free i R hile sojourning In California for >. LS health, he died on September 2, 1898, being in his inety-second WI NTE R TE RM year. He ha lived to se the Church Pass throug Sev Ses and begins Monday, January 3 emerge tiumphant. TS missionar System was Covering the Major ngi ot any tats ny 10ns of e Civilized Carth an day or evening Classes The Saints were building beautify] Citi = i leg have the omes and places of worship, and eae. Aes sence were being abundan tly blesseq by th Winter Quarter, ord. The L. D. S. Business College ig fully Qualified by ©XPerience, Joseph F Smith ©quipment, and statt to Give:. That training In the Pr€vious lesson We teferred ee that trainin to the work of eorge O annon Inquiries welcome af any time ho was the first Counselor to PresWrite for free literature Idents Taylor ang Woodruff We, NOW should learn something more L. D. Hy of the other Counselor, Oseph F, Smith, His father, Hyrum, had BUSINESS COLLEGE "en martyred when © Was not yet]

SOUTH | Wt ') G. " f) SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH MAIN STREET —————— —— —_—_—_— ——————— til April 1889, when the First Presidency was reorganized. President Woodruff was sustained as President and he selected the same two counselors who had so ably served President Taylor. The administration of President Woodruff was 4 remartkable one. He was eighty-two years of age at the time he became President. 'The Church was engaged in a struggle for its very existence. The government had confiscated the Church properties and had disincorporated the Church, and its leaders had chosen to £0 into hiding in preference to receiving severe puson sentences for adhering to the principle of plural marriage. It was at this critical time that President Woodruff issued the Manifesto based on a revelation which he had received, in September 1890, which made official declaration of the fact that the Church had discontinued the practice of -plural marriage. At the following general conference of the Church held in October the Manifesto was accepted by the Latter-day Saints by unanimous yote. Thus it became binding upon the members of the Church. Another work that characterized the administration of President Woodruff was the support he gave to Church education. The Church entered the educational field to pro vide its members with education beyond elementary years and _ established many academies, which later became high schools, throughout the length and breadth of ments made by the saints. President his whole-hearted LESSON DEPARTMENT SE § b Dial 5-665] Park Free i R hile sojourning In California for >. LS health, he died on September 2, 1898, being in his inety-second WI NTE R TE RM year. He ha lived to se the Church Pass throug Sev Ses and begins Monday, January 3 emerge tiumphant. TS missionar System was Covering the Major ngi ot any tats ny 10ns of e Civilized Carth an day or evening Classes The Saints were building beautify] Citi = i leg have the omes and places of worship, and eae. Aes sence were being abundan tly blesseq by th Winter Quarter, ord. The L. D. S. Business College ig fully Qualified by ©XPerience, Joseph F Smith ©quipment, and statt to Give:. That training In the Pr€vious lesson We teferred ee that trainin to the work of eorge O annon Inquiries welcome af any time ho was the first Counselor to PresWrite for free literature Idents Taylor ang Woodruff We, NOW should learn something more L. D. Hy of the other Counselor, Oseph F, Smith, His father, Hyrum, had BUSINESS COLLEGE "en martyred when © Was not yet 70
North Main Phone 3.2765 SIX years of ae. With his widowed Salt Lake ¢ mother Mary Fielding mith and J = 

70