[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | December | Issue: 4 | Title: ONE CHRISTMAS EVE. | Author: Unknown]

ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.
	An old brown farm house standing upon
a hilly slope, near a hemlock grove where
one of those low murmuring pebbly brooks
rippled along, its undertone harmoniziong
perfectly with the sighing and shivering of
the great pines in the background of the
pretty picture. Look, there is a crowd of
children coming in from a ramble laden
with evergreens, hemlock boughs, trailing
vines and bright red winter berries. How
merry they are, chatting gaily, and their
laughter ringing out in the clear, frosty air.
	A light snow is falling, which makes the
scene even more attractive. What a pic-
ture for an artist these little folks would
make! The long vines they have pulled
from under the thick carpet of fallen leaves,
that had covered and kept them fresh until
the winter holidays, when there are no flow-
ers in the gardens outside, are wound
around them, giving them the appearance
of wood-nymphs.
	These village children are familiar with
woods and fields, and happy in their simple
country life; they have no idea whatever, of
city ways and extravagant tastes, they have
not even had a glimpse of the great busy
world outside, its gaiety or wretchedness.
	It is the day before Christmas, and with-


[Column 1]
in the homely dwelling great preparations
are being made for coming festivities. The
children left to their own fancies had wan-
dered away in the pine woods, and re-
turned home carrying in their arms and
about them the boughs and vines and ber-
ries; and soon they are busy hanging them
around the walls of the long, low, living
room where the meals are always served
and the family gathered in the winter
weather. There, on a winter evening,
many interesting stories and anecdotes were
told and old-fashioned songs sung, and in
the great wide fire place the pine knots
blazed high and the reflection on the dark
oaken paneled walls made many a fanciful
light and shadow, so weird and strange that
they were ever afterward remembered by
the little ones reared in that  happy home.
On that particular Christmas eve, the ever-
greens were festooned and garlanded so
heavily and the dark green hung with
shining red berries, so that hte dim shad-
owy light when it danced fitfully over and
around made a strange contrast in its weird-
ness to the bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked, merry
children who fluttered hither and thither
singing and laughing, admiring the decora-
tions and calling the attention of the older
ones to the quaint and pretty designs.
	So rustic seemed this country home with
its simple but tasteful ornamentation that
one might almost imagine it a woodland
scene, and the smell of the fragrant hem-
lock and pine was like a perfume from the
forest itself.
	How different was this home of nearly
half a century ago, plain and primitive in
all its appointments, to even the village
homes of today.
	There was no chandelier hanging in the
great wide bare hall, only plain wooden
pegs for the hats and coats, and it had no
carpet, but a painted floor with gay-colored,
warm, home-made woolen mats, the only
really attractive feature, except the reflec-
tor that hung on the wall, and was only
lighted on special occasions.
	The house was unusually gay this Christ-
mas eve, though these Puritanical New
England folks didn’t make so much ado
about Christmas then as they do now; stil
it was customary to have a holiday week be-
fore New Year’s, and visits were inter-
changed among relatives and friends, and
elaborate dinners were indulged in. There
was much feasting and merry-making and
many queer old games for pastime besides.
Who shall say that those were not “the
good old times,” of which we sing and talk
and moralize so much? I may have been
too prosy in describing this country dwell-
ing, etc., and perhaps ’twould please the
present generation better to plunge into the
story without preamble, but all this is so
vivid to the writer, and it will do our boys
and girls no harm to know how their moth-
ers and grandmothers lived many years ago.
As I sit before the blazing fire late on a
winter’s night, I can call up many striking
pictures and incidents and remember well
the people that figured in the dramas that
actually transpired, out of which the threads
of many stories might be woven, and I per-
haps indulge too much in reverie and sim-
plify beforehand what ought to be brought
out in the narrative itself.
	This Christmas eve was the last one that
the large family assembled there on that
occasion, not one missing, ever spent within
those time-honored walls; for ere another

[Column 2]
year had flow the group was broken, and
one, “only a girl,” had gone far away and
everything seemed to change from that time,
one went here and another there, and by
and by the cruel war of the rebellion came
and sad tragedies followed; but we forbear
to name these things now and come back to
the Christmas even and for this once we’ll
watch these festive merry makers.
	It was a numerous family and the older
married ones who lived at a distance came
one after another during the day before
Christmas each with their little ones; there
were three daughters married whose hus-
bands came with them and one son with his
wife, and another unmarried son whose
employment took him away from his native
village. Late in the afternoon all had ar-
rived, and the old home resounded with
heartfelt rejoicing. All these were to dine
at the old homestead and spend a day or
two or more after at the dear place they
loved so well, and late that night when
the very little ones were sleeping, the
younger children lingered to hear thei
older brothers and sisters talk over the days
when they were at home, and try to recall
incidents and circumstances and repeat over
old stories, each one in turn filling in a
part that another had forgotten. After the
story telling, songs were sung and every one
was required to add something to the eve-
ning’s amusement. The stories and songs
were mostly of a legendary character, and
later on a sort of dullness fell upon the
party that none of them were willing to
acknowledge, yet all felt more or less, and
attributed it in a measure to the nature of
the pastime with which they had passed the
hours away.
	Finally, after a lull in the conversation,
and the fire was beginning to burn low, one
of the company suggested it was almost
twelve o’clock and soon they could wish
each other “a merry Christmas,” and retire,
for it seemed to be silently conceded that all
were tired; and just when a sort of quiet
reigned, another broke in upon the spell that
was apparent with, “I wonder what will
happen before another Christmas eve,” and
quick as answers often come without
thought, two or three voices at once burst
forth with the exclamation, “Edward will
be married, and we shall have another sister
added to our number instead of missing
one.” But no one of all assembled there
thought that ere another year had flown,
the half-grown girl who sat there that
night so pale and thoughtful, like one in a
dream, would be gone forever from their
midst into a new and very different life.
	As is often the case after very lively and
rather gay enjoyments a sort of solemnity
fell upon the party, and the merry Christ-
mas, as it resounded through the rooms
seemed to leave a hollow echo in the apart-
ments, that was more like a farewell than
the tone of glad greeting such as it was
meant to be.
	The wind was howling outside now,
though the day had been rather a placid one
with only a light fall of snow at intervals.
The evening had passed quickly and there
had been so much sparkle and brilliancy in-
side that the sounds without had not dis-
turbed them in the least, but when quiet set-
tled down and the family separated for the
night, the elements seemed in great commo-
tion; the wind was fairly shrieking and the
great elm trees in the yard swayed to and
fro and crackled, and the sighs and moans

[Column 3]
of the pine woods in the distance were pite-
ous to listen to. To one full of sentiment
these melancholy dirges, especially on a win-
try night, have something inexpressibly ten-
der and significant in them, and the voices
in the wind are full of the sweetest pathos,
yet appealing to the strongest emotions, that
give expression to the human soul in its
deepest distress; yea, even in the agony
that is beyond expression. They seem to
cry out for the suffering ones and to moan
piteously in the night time while the glad
world of humanity is wrapped in sleep. This
night was a dismal one, and the young peo-
ple grew nervous from the sadness that
brooded over their Christmas greetings. It
was as though a presentiment came that
something was about to happen; even
though all was peace and quietness within
and no knowledge of any evil shadow lurk-
ing about or around had caused this melan-
choly foreboding.
	Life was rich with promise to all the
household, and especially so to the little
maiden who was just bursting into woman-
hood; her amiable manner and cheerful dis-
position were the very life of the old home,
nothing could be brighter or more hopeful
than the future prospects of this young girl.
The world to her was so full of beauty and
sweetness and she had been a favorite with
all the household.
	It sometimes happens that the child bursts
suddenly as by revelation into a knowledge
of the forces that have lain dormant in the
mind through all the tenderer years, while
in others perhaps it only dawns upon them
through slow processes of reasoning or bit-
ter experiences.
	But we were talking of Christmas festivi-
ties, and though the wind howls and the
woods take up the echo, the great logs burn
brightly and happy faces light up the Christ-
mas morn. Snow had fallen very deep and
when the hall door was opened the great
bank of light snow fell in upon the floor to
the delight of the children who were not
permitted to go out in such weather. Th
morning sun shining in dispelled the gloom
of the previous night, and in the exercises
of prayer and reading of passages from the
Bible, which was customary in this house,
the melancholy died away and the breakfast
was partaken of in the most cheerful mood
by all.
	During the day, while visiting with each
other, the daughters roamed through the
house from garret to cellar, commenting up-
on the old styles and suggesting modern im-
provements. The mother objected to new-
fangled notions and affirmed that the old
home was dearer to her from association
than any other could ever be, however ele-
gantly fitted up, or modernized
	“I am loth to leave this dear old place
where I have been so many years a happy
wife and mother, or to part with any portion
of my household furniture, for all your de-
rision, and making fun of my antiquated no-
tions. Furniture is not made of such rich
wood nowadays, much of it is sham, and on
a par with the rude brusque manners of
some of our young people.” “But, girls,”
said the mother, continuing, “you may each
of you select a piece of furniture today to
take with you to your own home, and re-
member whatever happens you must not
part with it, let it be as a memento of your
childhood home and of this Christmas visit.
And so they did, and long after, when
many of those who ate their Christmas din-


[Column 1]
ner together on that day had gone to “that
better land” those who remained were re-
minded of the time they had spent together
with the darling mother, and of the sweet
and gentle words she had spoken.
	But we must not forget the dinner, which
was a most elaborate affair, and served in
the room decorated by the children with
only natural evergreens and red berries, but
so dark and curiously woven together that
it was weird enough for a gypsy’s camp.
Christmas-trees were unknown in that prim-
tive place in those days, and the gifts that
were bestowed were generally those of love
and good-will.
	But the dinner was delicious, and about
forty persons, including children, sat down
together around that festive board. Turkey
with savory dressing, young pigs, roasted
whole, puddings, pies, cakes and preserves
with a variety of condiments and side
dishes. No wine or sweet cider even were
ever served to the guests in that house, the
mistress strongly objected. “My boys,” she
always said, “shall never be tempted at
home to partake of strong drink.” But rosy-
cheeked apples piled high in elegant glass
and china dishes, made the table quite orna-
mental; oranges too from Florida added to
the beauty of the sumptuous feast, and
tempted the already sharpened appetites of
the children.
	Long they lingered at table, this happy
family, on that day which seemed forever
after to mark an era in their lives; one joke
after another was told and some of them
had a very practical application, but all was
in good nature and jollity, and the daylight
faded into eventide ere the company had
realized its approach.
	The lamps were lighted, the tables cleared
and put back, the shining hearth clean
swept, a fresh supply of cragged pine-knots
piled high in the great open fire-place, upon
the heavy dog-irons; and the pastimes of
the evening commenced. Each one was to
do something, tell a story, sing a song, re-
late an anecdote, or give some pleasing reci-
tation; the programme was an impromptu
one, yet mostly they agreed, no one differ-
ing with another as to how or why they
should render due regard to the appoint-
ment.
	The hours sped as on the wings of the
wind, and ere the half was told the midnight
bell pealed out in the frosty air. Mrs. Cur-
tis never encouraged sitting up after mid-
night, not even for company. One by one,
the visitors and the family departed to their
rooms with a formal goodnight, except the
unmarried son, who had won something of
a reputation as a practical business man,
and who, during his occasional visits to the
home of his childhood, always took the op-
portunity to advise with his mother on his
own account, as well as hers. So far since
his arrival there had really been no good
chance of their speaking apart, and he had
begun to feel very uncomfortable. This eve-
ning he felt determined to detain his mother
after the rest had retired; there was still a
blazing fire, and it seemed to invite the con-
fidence of those whose hearts need warmth
and sympathy. Bachelors ever do, and Ed-
ward had never been married, and his life
was a sort of Bohemian kind, that pleased
him well, but that his exemplary mother
thought was simply dreadful.
	He had been a great favorite with his
mother always, such a serious, steady boy,
and now such a finely proportioned, brown-

[Column 2]
bearded, handsome young man with great
blue eyes that seemed to speak volumes in
a glance. The village girls made no secret
of their admiration for him, and wherever
he went he attracted the attention of those
about him, and influenced them much as he
wished when he chose to exert his powers.
He was a man of strong emotions and de-
votedly attached to his mother, and her in-
terests. In many respects the mother and
son were very similar. They had been ac-
customed to confer together on financial
family matters, and Mrs. Curtis had always
found Edward a safe adviser. He was fond
of home in his own way, and very fond of
his aristocratic looking mother, as well as of
her excellent economy and management of
the homestead with its fine, broad acres of
meadow-land, pastures, hillsides and woods.
	“My mother,” he had often said to gen-
tlemen friends, “can manage an estate as
well as most men; her executive ability is
quite equal to that of any man in our coun-
try, and I am sure she would make a good
judge: she has that sort of judicial manner
of weighing things and giving her opinion
when she has looked on all sides.”
	In fact, Edward Curtis had said, on one
or two occasions, if he could find a young
woman with such a well-balanced head as
his mother had he would ask her to be his
wife. On this Christmas night, when mother
and son were left alone for a few moments,
at first a sort of restraint seemed to hinder
the freedom felt in times past. Edward felt
he must break the spell, and looking up
with his great, fathomless blue eyes, in-
quiringly said, “What about the homestead,
mother, if you are determined to go West?
I was in hopes it was not true, but on com-
ing to the village I find it is quite under-
stood by the neighbors. We’ve been so
happy here these many years, and it’s such
a delightful place, might be made a charm-
ing summer resort, everything to make it
attractive in that way, if we chose to do it.
There is not a more picturesque spot in all
this part of New England, and it abounds
in sequestered vales and nooks among the
hills. Oh, I can’t think of its being sold to
strangers: I like the English idea of ances-
tral inheritance.”
	The tender-hearted mother heard him
through, and with characteristic firmness re-
plied: “Edward, I have thought all this over
and made up my mind that if you would,
you could keep the old home from going
into the hands of strangers?”
	“Why, mother, what do vou mean?”
	“I mean simply this: Marry, and settle
down here—not one of your city belles.
They might only fancy the place, beautiful
as its surroundings are, for a summer sea-
son, but one of our own villagers, and after
awhile you may see things as I do, and join
us in the West. Then you would be more
reconciled to the parting.”
	“Well, mother, I’ll think about buying the
place, but as for the village girls, they are
all pure-minded and innocent doubtless, and
that should be an inducement, but I shall
not marry yet awhile. I’d like this strong
attachment for the home and its belongings
to wear off a little before we part with it, if
it ever will: every foot of the land is en-
deared to me by some memory or other: the
old well-sweep, I love to hear it creak as in
my schoolboy days when the wind blew
from the hemlock grove yonder, though it’s
not a think of beauty by any means. I have
made a sketch of it, which I intend to keep

[Column 3]
for the sake of old remembrances; there
will never be any water that will seem so
sweet and pure in all the years to come, I
fear, as I have drunk from that old well,
with its undignified sweep, that we can see
such a distance away. The new fangled
pumps don’t compare with it in my opinion,
still, in new houses I prefer them, but in this
place I like things just as they are.”
	“I am glad, Edward, that you have such
a reverence for the home of your childhood,
and I hope you may be able to take it and
secure to me sufficient ready money for my
rights in the estate, so that I can go to the
West, and take the younger chlidren, and
yet it grieves me very much that I must part
not only with old-time friends, endeared to
me by tender ties of affection, but that more
than half my children must be left behind:
I know, however, that in this matter I am
right, and my views upon the subject can-
not be changed.”
	The arrangement of leaving the home-
stead in Edward’s hands to be disposed of
afterwards was partially decided upon, and
mother and son sat talking of this and
other things into the wee sma’ hours of
morning, the rain beating against the win-
dow panes, the fierce wind howling and
shrieking without, the old well-sweep creak-
ing, while in the lull, at intervals, the pine
woods sighed in a minor key like a re-
quiem, as it were, for the parting of that
happy family from each other and the home
of their childhood.
	They had spent the Christmas time to-
gether without any particular event of im-
portance transpiring, some gloomy presenti-
ments that might be caused by the knowl-
edge that the home was to be sold and the
household broken up. that was all. Tomor-
row some of them must return to their own
homes, and that alone produced a sort of
sadness, such as we have all of us felt, per-
haps, after some specially happy occasion,
when the reaction comes, as it is almost
always sure to do.
	No sorrow, not the lightest, had ever fal-
len noon Deborah Curtis, yet she had been
pensive and thoughtful during the Christ-
mas festivities; to her. perhaps more than
to any one else, the cloud that hung over
the gathering had seemed dark and threat-
ening.
	That dismal Christmas night when the
wind was shrieking as if in mortal agony,
and as she thought all the household were
fast asleep, she lay tossing and moaning on
her downy pillows, sobbing out every now
and then, “If he comes tomorrow, what
shall I do? But I am not to blame: I did
not say he might come here. Besides, what
will Fred say? He has alwavs been my
champion, my playmate ever since we went
to school together, and I have been so proud
of him, too, and the other girls so jealous,
and now Frank is coming, and declares in
that last letter that he will take no refusal.”
	“Let me see.” and climbing out of bed
she lit her candle, opened her drawer, and
between her tears and sobs, began to read
this terrible letter that was causing such a
commotion in her feelings.
	“Yes, here it is.” and she read: “I am
coming the day after Christmas when all
your big brothers and sisters are there, even
Edward, whom you think will frighten me
out of asking for you and I shall storm the
old castle for my lady-bird, and for aught I
know ‘waft her away on the wings of the
wind.” If I should meet with any resistance


[Column 1]
from these stalwart brothers—I give you
timely warning, and I trust there will be no
fainting or hysterics among the women
folks.”
	“Wicked boy,” Deborah muttered to her-
self, as, shivering with cold and excitement,
she folded and replaced the letter and hur-
ried back to bed. Poor child, she fell asleep
 and dreamed that Frank Lockwood came
with a carriage to take her away and that
Fred Howard snatched her up in his arms,
and would not let go his hold, and then she
woke. The dream was so real that she could
scarcely believe she was in bed in her own
room and the storm still beating against the
window as when she fell asleep.”
	St. Stephen’s day, the 26th of December,
a dismal morning, no getting out in such a
storm, and Deborah was somewhat calmed
when she saw how unpropitious the weather
was for traveling. She tried to summon
courage to speak to her mother, but it was
impossible, her manner seemed so forbid-
ding. The truth was, Mrs. Curtis was so
absorbed in what had transpired between
Edward and herself the night before that
she was oblivious to all things of less im-
portance. It never for one moment oc-
curred to her nor to any one of them, that
Deborah had a lover coming upon the
scene to interrupt their pleasure. Neverthe-
less, he came and very unceremoniously.
	As he had asserted in his letter, he dashed 
up the lane, where the gates stood open, 
really the main entrance for carriages, driv-
ing a span of fine grey horses, and a hand-
some turn-out in every respect for traveling.
The bells rang out so wildly close to the
house that the ladies and children all rushed
to the windows except Deborah, who was
ready to faint before she knew what the
matter was. At the sound of the bells, Ed-
ward was on hand, and seeing a total
stranger, was about to speak, when the
young man jumped out of the sleigh and in-
troduced himself, with the salutation, “I
suppose you are young Mr. Curtis, and I
am Frank Lockwood, from Athol. I sup-
pose your sister has told you about me!”
	“No, I never heard of your existence, but
come in; you’re welcome. Let me take your
horses to the barn. You’ve driven hard, I.
see—a fine team.”
	The horses were taken care of, and Ed-
ward Curtis led the way to the house, but
on entering, with the expectation of finding
Deborah to explain matters, the room was
vacated except the children and babies and
gentlemen guests; the eldest brother opened
up a conversation with the young stranger,
and Edward stepped out to see what was
going on, for from the stranger’s remarks
he had gathered that the young man had
come a-wooing, something after the fashion
of olden times, on the defensive, declaring
war beforehand. He found his mother and
sisters were engaged in bringing Deborah
out of a dead faint, which only seemed to
complicate things in his mind, and made
him think seriously of sending the young
man about his business, but finally con-
cluded not to precipitate matters, but wait
to see the scenes unravel. Frank was very
uncomfortable. Every time the door opened
he expected to see Deborah, but she came
not, and the impatient lover grew weary of
waiting. “What has this young man to say,
fact, no one knew what to say. One after
another the married sisters came into the
parlor and were introduced to Mr. Lock-
wood, but Deborah’s name was never men-
tioned. A child came in and spoke to Ed-

[Column 2]
ward. He excused himself; his sister had
sent for him, and his mother was also in
waiting. “What has this young man to say
who has thrust himself upon us at this un-
seasonable time?” said the mother. “He
has said nothing as yet, except to ask if my
sister told me of his coming”. “Will you
inquire his errand, Edward?” resumed the
mother, with the most perfect composure?
“As you please, mother, but what does
Deborah say?” “That you must persuade
him to go away without seeing her; that she
is not engaged to him.”
	“Then she gave him encouragement, has
trifled with his affections? The fellow is
desperate, a veritable hero of romance.”
	There was no help for it; Edward had
never been in love himself, but somehow he
felt a great sympathy for this daring young
fellow who could face a whole house full of
relatives, determined to conquer them all.
He thought a great deal of his sister—not
exactly his style. She was such a delicate,
fragile creature, but beautiful and gentle,
and so sensitive he could scarcely see how
any man could want her for a wife. That
word seemed to him to imply too much for
one so young and inexperienced. However,
if he must “face the music,” better begin
right away.
	Edward sent to invite Mr. Lockwood to
meet him in an adjoining room, and of 
course he did so, and they talked over the
matter seriously together. Edward found
his sister had spoken truly when she said
she had given him no hope of loving him,
but Frank was one of those men that by
some peculiar fascination compel women in
spite of themselves, to listen and often im-
agine it is true love, when upon serious re-
flection they are convinced it is not the love
that is needed for the daily duties of life. It
passes for the real article in the matrimo-
nial market very often, but when it is put
into the crucible and tested, there proves to
be very little of the genuine material. If
the experience of others could be valued at
its proper estimate, girls would be more
considerate before hand, and when they
made a choice it might perhaps be a wiser
one. It is customary to call marriage a lot-
tery, etc., and very erroneous ideas of love
prevail among men as well as women. For
instance, this happy Christmas was inter-
rupted and the guests dispersed in anything
but gay spirits through the inopportune ar-
rival upon the scene of this young stranger,
who fancied himself madly in love. He
succeeded admirably in creating a sensation
and unsetting the household. The family
party thus rudely broken in upon could not
regain the same feelings of enjoyment and
those who went away with the good-bve
upon their lips felt that they had met in
the old home for the last time.
	The irrepressible lover was persistent and
fascinating enough to ingratiate himself into
favor with the mother and big brother and
finally to carry Deborah away captive (not
on the wings of the wind) but after the

[Column 3]
manner of men, as his bride. Not long after,
the old home was disposed of to Edward,
who, notwithstanding his regard for ances-
tral inheritances, sold it to strangers.
	Those who remain of that numerous fam
ly who gathered around the same hearth-
stone on that festive occasion, are scattered
far and wide. Some who were babes then
are sleeping in unknown graves, having per-
shed on the battle-field; others lie where
stately monuments mark their resting place
and tell of their heroic deeds. But though 
many have died out of the number who
spent Christmas at the old home, yet, nev-
ertheless, the tribe has increased and
strange to state, the fragile little maiden
Deborah, who was the prime cause of the
excitement, has the largest posterity of them
all, unless it be the eldest son. It would be
impossible to tell you the whole story in one
evening, but the old home long ago went to
ruin, though the great, ugly well-sweep is
still there, and the pure water as it was then
has never failed, and the weary traveler
halts on his way to take a drink from the
old well, and the neighbors come hither to
get water when their wells fail. The hem-
lock grove is not yet all cut awav. and the
pines still sigh and moan and shiver, and
the evergreens twine themselves under and
around the trees and shrubs, and the beau-
tiful birds (or their posterity) still sing the
sweet songs that thrilled the hearts of those
happy children in the days gone by.
