HYGIENIC NOTES.

	TO REMOVE BOILS.—Dr. Simon, a phy-
sician of Loraine gives a new cure for boils,
by treating them with camphorated alcohol.
As soon as the culmination point of a boil
makes its appearance, he puts a little of the
liquor in a saucer, and dipping the ends of
his little fingers in it, rubs the inflamed sur-
face, especially the central part, repeating
the operation eight or ten times for about
half a minute. He then allows the surface
to dry, placing over it a slight coating of 
camphorated olive oil. He says that four
such applications will, in almost all cases,
cause boils to dry up and disappear. The
application should be made at morning, noon
and evening.

	EATING BETWEEN MEALS.—In regard to
eating between meals, if persons would eat
only at regular intervals there would be no
craving; but as the habit of eating irregu-
larly is continued, it becomes stronger. I
know it is a common practice for people to


eat as they feel a longing for it. When
children are allowed this privilege, as a gen-
eral rule, it makes them fretful and un-
healthy. When I was a child it was a rare
thing that I asked for anything to eat be-
tween meals; as I grew older I got into the
habit of eating whenever I felt the slight-
est degree of hunger, and was hungry near-
ly all of the time at that; feeling miserable
in the bargain: but, happily for me, I saw an
article in the "Rural" bitterly opposing this
injurious habit, and it so completely disgus-
ted me with it that I made a promise then 
and there never to eat between meals. Since
then I have felt better in both body and
mind and it is seldom that I care about 
breaking my promise; when I do I conquer
the feeling and feel far better than I would
if I had eaten. I speak from experience
having tried both ways.—M. Lang in R.
N.Y.

BENEFITS OF SUNSHINE.—The human
being is like a plant—neither will thrive in
the dark. Nor will either prosper in the
twilight or in the shade. Show me a fam-
ily that lives in a house heavily shaded by
overhanging boughs of trees, so that the
sunshine seldom or never falls upon any side
of it, and I will show you a people who
never enjoy good health. They are not ex-
actly wilted nor bleached; but they have
that bleached look presented by the unfortu-
nate inmates of prisons, and the drooping
appearance seen in plants that make a poor
show of growing in dark, out of the way
places. Vigor is altogether impassible in
the absence of sunshine. I know many
people who think themselves intelligent,
and who are filled with wise saws and sage
proverbs as to the preservation of health,
who live in darkened rooms. Sunshine
fades the carpets and warps the furniture,
they say; but faded carpets are better than
faded cheeks, and warped furniture is better
than crooked spines and bowed leggs and
arms. Flies will get into the house if it is
light, is another excuse for ample window 
window curtains and heavy shade trees—the
latter, in many cases, the poisonous and too 
odorous Chinese Ailanthus.	*	*
Sunshine is grand medicine for the invalid,
and coupled with plenty of fresh air, and
the restorative preparations drawn by the
plants from air and sunshine, it is one of the
finest and safest remedies. It is also one of
the best of the preventives of sickness.
Admit it, then, to every nook and corner of
your dwellings, that it may banish malaria,
and implant strength and vitality into your
minds and bodies. And, speaking of the
benefits of sunshine, we recommend a sun-
shine bath. It costs nothing, but, taken
properly, it yields health, strength and elas-
ticity of spirits.


