					MARY ANNE LUNT.

	MENDON, CACHE CO., June 5th, 1874.
DEAR EDITOR:—
	We held our Annual Meeting May 28th.
There were present on the stand, Brothers
Anderson, Donelson, Thumway, Baker and
Gardener. President Willie and Counselors.
Meeting opened in the usual manner with
singing and prayer. Minutes of the previ-
ous meeting were read; also the financial
report of the past year; which was very
satisfactory. Sister Maria Baker spoke on
the necessity of the young ladies being or-
ganized in a class, to work in connection
with the society. We also received good
words of instruction from the brethern that
were present. President Mrs. Willie also
gave some very valuable counsel and thanked
the brethren for their visit. Sisters Baker
and Hancock bore testimony to the truth of
the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Meeting closed
with prayer by Brother Anderson. Wish-
ing the success of every good enterprise,
including the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, we are
respectfully, 
	  ELIZABETH WILLIE, President,
			ANNIE HUGHES, Secretary.

	Secretary Jane Bailey, reports from the 
Relief Society of Moroni, Sanpete Co.,
"The Sisters are united in seeking to do
good; the poor among us are provided for;
several good heavy bed quilts with other
suitable clothing for winter, we have been
able to furnish for those who were in need
of them. The sick also have been cared
for, and the best interest of all looked after,
so far as the influence and power of the
Relief Society extends. And we thank 
God that we are numbered among His free
people, and that these humble yet good
works are alotted unto us to perform. For
one, I would not exchange my position in
my lowly mountain home for all that the
world calls grand and great. I KNOW that I
am FREE here, that the people and the wo-
men of the people of God are free; and what
doth it matter if the world will not see it?
		'And when some trying hour appear,
	  I'll not be over awed,
		But let the scoffing sinner hear
	  That I can speak of God.'"

	The Secretary of the Manti Relief Society,
A. L. Cox, writes:—Our Society was organ-
ized May 11th, 1874. It has accomplished
much good, gaining "little by little." At
the close of the last year, our surplus funds
were used to assist the emigration of the
poor Saints. We hold our regular meetings
on the afternoon of every Fast-day, and
special meetings when business requires.
Our President Mrs. Ann Logan is a woman
of much experience and ability, and the
prevailing sentiment with the Sisters is to
sustain her, and assist in the upbuilding of
Zion. The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor
both in our meetings and at our homes.
Please accept my hearty GOOD wishes for
your success as the Pioneer of female jour-
nalism in Utah.


