THE HABIT OF FRETTING.
	Fretting is both useless and unnecessary;
it does no good and a great deal of harm,
yet it is almost a universal sin. More or less
we are all given to it. We fret over almost
everything. In  summer because it is too
hot, and in  winter because it is too cold; we
fret when it rains because it is wet; when
we are sick, or when anybody else is sick.
In short, if anything or everything dosn’t
go just to suit our particular whims and
fancies, we have one grand general refuge
—to fret over it. I am afraid fretting is
much more common among women than
among men. We may as well own the
truth, my fair sisters, if it isn’t altogether
pleasant. Perhaps it is because the little
worries, and cares and vexations of our daily
life harrass our sensitive nerves more than
the more extended enterprises which gen-
erally take the attention of men. Great
wants develop great resources, but the lit-
tle wants and worries are hardly provided
for, and like the nail which strikes against
the saw, they make not much of a mark,
but they turn the edges terribly. I think if
we looked upon all the little worries of one
day as a great united worry, self-control to
meet it would be developed. But as they
generally come only one or two little things
at a time, they seem so very little that we
give way, and the breach once in the wall
soon grows larger. Now, I don’t believe in
the cant that a woman must always, under
all and any circumstances, wear a smiling
face when her husband comes home, or that
she needs to take her hands out of the dough
or drop the baby on the floor to run and
meet him at the door. But I do believe—
nay. I know, for I have seen it with my own
eyes among my friends—that many a wo-
man has driven a kind husband away from
her, away from his home and its sacred in-
fluences, and caused him to spend his time
at a billiard table or in a drinking saloon,
amid their profane influences, simply by
her ceaseless fretting over trifles which
were not worth a word, much less the peace
and happiness of a home. I know that many
a mother has brought up and developed a
daughter just like herself, who, in her turn,
would wreck and ruin the comfort of an-
other family circle. I know that many a
mother has turned her son against her own
sex, and made him dread and dislike the
society of women, by her example, con-
stantly set before him. And knowing all
this, my sisters—and brothers, too, if they
need it—I know that we ought to set our
faces like flint against this useless, sinful,
peace-destroying and home-disturbing habit
of fretting.


