ANNIVERSARY MEETING.
	Of the California State Woman's Suffrage
			Association.
	The "New North West" of May 22nd, contains
an interesting account of the fifth anniversary
meeting of the Woman's Suffrage Association
of California. During four sessions which were
held, speeches were made, resolutions formed
and correspondence read, all of an animated
and earnest character. The President of the
State Board of Control, Mrs. M. A. Lewis, re-
ported that in the past year, thirty-six meetings
had been held by the Board, and that it had is-
sued and presented four circulars which con-
tained more than ten thousand pages, and had
written two hundred and fifty-one letters, of
which, one hundred and fifteen had been an-
swered. Mrs. Lewis also congratulated the So-
ciety upon the passage of the Educational Bill
by the Legislature, making women eligible to
every position of authority in the school depart-
ment of the State. The Bill referred to had
been passed in response to a lengthy petition,
containing over five thousand signatures which
was forwarded by the Board.
	The women of Utah have occasion to again
thank the California Woman Suffragists for in-
terposing in behalf of their rights which are
still threatened. At the first session of the
anniversary meeting, the committee on Reso-
lutions presented the following, which was read
and adopted.
	Whereas, The Legislative department of
the Territory of Utah several years since prac-
tically demonstrated its appreciation of and
confidence in the principles of political equal-
ity and self-government, as enunciated by the
founders of the American Republic, by confer-
ring the elective franchise upon the women
within its jurisdiction; and,
	Whereas, The general deportment of the
newly enfranchised class in Utah and Wyo-
ming has been so characterized by quiet, order
and respect for public authority as to attract the
attention and challenge the commendation of
high public officials; and,
	Whereas, There are several bills now before
the Federal Congress, embracing those of Sena-
tors Frelinghuysen, Logan and Sargent and
Representative McKee, each of which, while
aiming to suppress polygamy in Utah, provides,
with the exception of that of Mr. Sargent, to
remand the women back to political subjuga-
tion; therefore,
	Resolved, That the California W. S. Associa-
tion, at its Fifth Anniversary, in convention
assembled, on this 29th day of April, 1874, here-
by records its solemn protest against this crafty
effort on the part of the enemies of Human
Rights to induce the Congress of the United 
States to perform the despotic work of disfran-
chising the women of an entire commonwealth,
thereby, under the specious pretense of promo-
ting public morals and womanly purity, pro-
posing to inflict a punishment upon the polyga-
mic wives of Utah to which only felons should
be subjected, while inflicting no punishment
and imposing no restraint upon polygamous
husbands.
	Resolved, That the Board of Control is re-
quested to prepare and forward to Congress a
memorial asking that Body to protect the wo-
men of Utah in the enjoyment of all the rights
of self-government conferred upon them by the
Legislative department of that Territory, and
that a copy of these resolutions be forwarded
to each Senator and Representative in the Na-
tional Congress from the Pacific Coast, who are
earnestly requested to use their influence to de-
feat any bill which abridges or denies the right
of Suffrage to any person or class on account of
sex.


