			 RUFFLES.

	La, me! Charlotte, read that again for
grandmother, do. I wern’t noticing till I
I heard you speak about the ruffles.”
     Charlotte read from EXPONENT No. 22,
Vol. 2. “What could look prettier or more
modest, than a pretty, small, trousered foot,
in silk stockings and a neat sandled shoe,
appearing under the skirt of a muslin dress
—the ankles buried as it were in several
rows of lace frills or flounces of fine cam-
bric,” &c.
     “Well I declare,” said grandma, “I never
thought that these old eyes of mine would
ever see the day when the good old fashion
of ruffles would come again. Why there’s
your own mother, child, even before she
could see the daylight, her little head was
completely hid in a heavily wrought cap
with loves of ruffles. Why you wouldn’t
hardly know it was a baby’s head; only
you’d know of course for every body fixed
them so.”
     “But grandmother, the writer of this ar-
ticle is referring to a lady’s under dress, her
pants, you know," observed Charlotte.
“Well, what is the difference, a ruffle’s a
ruffle arn’t it?”
     “Yes, but only think of the almost end-
less task of stitching, and then the outlay of
labor and patience required in this hot,


dusty weather, grandmother, to keep them
neat and in good taste.”
     “I know child, this horrid country isn’t
like old Vermont; and then the Canadians
were glad to help their better off neighbors,
and they were mighty handy too. Your
mother, child, was always rather delicate
when she was young, and she’s had her
white dress ironed often by a young French-
man, who seemed to think it a perfect plea-
sure to work for the Squire’s daughter; and
does not the good book say that the sons of
strangers shall serve you?”
     “Yes grandmother, but if we could bring
ourselves, or others to such torturing toil,
would it not be wrong? Are we not instruc-
ted to practice retrenchment in excessive
labor as well as in expense of material and
time? Indeed, grandmother, is not re-
trenchment in these things, the will of Our
Heavenly Father as expressed by His ser-
vants, the Prophets, unto us?”
     “Well, well, child! the Lord forbid that
your grandmother should ever speak to your
quick ears a word against the blessed Pro-
phets; but, alack a me! arn’t the children
of this generation wise? But why should
our own EXPONENT contain an article of that
kind, telling us about the pretty appearance
of ruffles and such things, if——”
     “Why, grandma, it is merely a ‘clipping’
from another paper, inserted in ours by way
of variety, I suppose, simply to show us how
women dress on the Continent, among the
French, Spanish and Russians.”
						AZURETTA.
     Washington, May 18th, 1874.


[For the EXPONENT.]

