A TESTIMONY.

     To my Sisters, women of the Latter-day
Saints:—I feel that my whole heart is in this
Kingdom, and my soul rejoices in the Uni-
ted Order that is being established among
this people. I think the time approaches
which was spoken of by Malachi the Pro-
phet.—“Then shall ye return and discern
between the righteous and the wicked, be-
tween him that serveth God and him that
serveth Him not.” My prayer is, that we,
as handmaids of the Lord, shall not prove,
in any instance a draw-back in this great
work of establishing God’s Kingdom upon
the earth. Let us pray continually that
judgment may be given to the Saints, that
they may be enabled to take the kingdom
and possess it forever. I can bear testimony
that this uniting together of the people is
of God; for in His mercy and by His Holy
Spirit, He showed me the Order, more than
twenty-seven years ago. The winter after
we left Nauvoo, when we were stopped at
Council Bluffs, and were destitute of even
daily bread, when our men had to go to
Missouri and work for a little corn and ba-
con to keep their families alive, while the
women would stay at home and pray and
fast—the latter they were sometimes obliged
to do, I can speak for one at least—then we
trusted in the Lord—we had nothing else
to trust in. One day I got so faint and weak
I had to lie down on the bed, and my heart
was drawn out in prayer and supplication to
my Heavenly Father. I began to think how
many good things there were in the world,
how many people lived in pride and luxury,
while others were famishing for the com-
monest necessaries of life. And the vision


of my mind was opened, and the Lord
showed me the time when the Saints should
inherit the earth, when the Spirit of the
Lord should be poured out upon them, and
the Kingdom and the greatness of the King-
dom would be given to them and they
should possess it forever. This has often
been a great consolation to me since that
time, in days of poverty and distress. And
in the darkest hours I have never doubted
that the Lord would yet do for His Saints
what He then showed me He would do.
But I will tell you further of His goodness
to me at that time. How true it is that He
never forsakes those who trust in him!
There was a good Samaritan at hand; a sis-
ter living about three quarters of a mile
from me was impressed to come and see how
I was getting along, knowing that I was
alone with my little ones. In obedience to
the impulse she came bringing with her a
prairie chicken which they had caught in a
trap. It was all dressed ready for cooking,
and she was not long in making me some
broth, just what my weak and delicate state
needed. And did I not thank my Heavenly
Father and that dear sister for their good-
ness to me? Can I doubt that God’s care
has been over His Saints, or that He will
cease to care for them?		S. K. G.


For the EXPONENT.
