THE SEX.

	MISS Alta M. Hulett, the lady lawyer of
Chicago, has just won an important suit.
	IT is announced that Queen Victoria will
visit Germany during the coming summer.
	AN English lady has promised $25,000
for the purpose of supplying Jerusalem with
water.
	MISS Ella Hoffman, daughter of the ex-
Governor of New York, is said to be en-
gaged to the son of an English nobleman.
	THE Duchess of Edinburgh, it is report-
ed, is pouting over the common-place ap-
pearance of her new home, the Clarence
House.
	MISS Lizzie Perry of Holyoke, Mass., took
the highest rank among all the students of
the grammar school in that city, at the
monthly examination for April.
	THE Emperor of Austria has just confer-
red on Mme. Adelina Patti the title of Kam-
mersaengerla (Singer of the Imperial House),
an honorary distinction very rarely be-
stowed.
	NOTWITHSTANDING the danger, ladies still
entrust themselves to Hymen, even at the 
risk of getting in the milkyway, and not
knowing whether they will make land or 
water.
	MISS Garrison, in Council Bluffs, Iowa,
has created quite a stir by speaking in sev-
eral saloons. At first she was roughly treat-
ed by the crowd, but since then has met with 
greater favor.
	THE Duchess of Lancaster, who is better
known as Queen Victoria, received last year
from her duchy the substantial income of
$500,000. In 1847, this property brought to
her about $150,000.
	MISS Rebecca Rice has been called to the
Professorship of Mathematics in Antioch
College, Yellow Springs, Ohio. Miss Rice
has been studying for some time in Europe,
and brings to the position ripe scholarship
and experience as a teacher.
	MLLE. Zaire Thalberg, the daughter of
Thalberg, the pianist, is now in Paris, and
her early appearance on the lyric stage is to
be expected. It is said she promises to be-
come as great a singer as her father is a pi-
anist. Mlle. Thalberg is just sixteen, having
been born in New York in 1858.
	JULIA Sumner Hastings, the only surviv-
ing sister of the late Senator Sumner, has
written from San Francisco to the Massachu-
setts Legislative Committee, thanking them
for the tenderness and care with which they
performed the funeral services of her illus-
trious brother.
	ALICE Mason Sumner, the divorced wife
of the late lamented Senator, has filed a pe-
tition in the Probate Court, asking that her
name may be changed to that of Alice Ma-
son, for the reason that "she has been di-
vorced from her late husband, who has since
deceased, and desires to resume her maiden
name.
	MRS. Hicks of New York, the lady whom
Gen. Schenck of Ohio proposes to take back
to London as his bride, has quite a romantic
history. By birth she is a South American.
Her parents, North Americans and North-
erners, were living in Brazil when she was
born. Her name is Annetta; but her lineage
is English, not Spanish. She married an
elderly, very wealthy man, but lived in re-
tirement until after his death.
	A young girl named Kate Curry, residing
a few miles south of Galesburg, Ill., was one
day noticed by an engineer on the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy Railroad, endeavor-
ing to extricate a pet lamb that had got its
foot fast in a cattle-guard. In her anxiety
to save her pet, she did not heed the whistle
of the engine. Just before the engine
reached them, the lamb was extricated and
bounded away, but she was struck by the
pilot of the engine and thrown some fifteen
feet from the track. She was found with a
deep gash in her head and in an insensible
condition. Medical assistance being called,
she soon recovered.


