SPLINTERS.
			   LOCAL.
	Currants were ripe in St. George on the
5th inst.......Dr. S. E. Crain committed sui-
cide in the city jail, on the 9th inst. He
was sentenced to answer for an alleged
crime, and was unable to get bail.......The
proprietors of the Salt Lake Theatre have
had a "benefit" week, the performers playing
without charge for that length of time......
Splendid home raised strawbearies have
been in market for the past ten days.
			GENERAL.
	A Jeffersonville, Indiana saloon keeper
lately blew his own brains out; but he first
killed his baby and  is believed mortally
wounded his wife......A Washington lady
believes Grant would take anything you
would give him, even if it were the small-
pox.......Ingalls has introduced a bill in
Washington, to have the Board of Indian
Commissioners abolished......One hundred
millions of Postal cards have been issued in
this country during the short time they
have been in use.......A new comet, only
visable through a telescope, has been lately
discovered........The House committee on
Territories, at Washington, have agreed to
report a bill defining the qualifications of
deligates from Teritories, which provides
that a man must be twenty-five years of age,
a resident for seven years of the Territory
he represents, and neither a bigamist nor
polygamist......A temperance crusade is in
active progress on the Sandwich Islands,
and a bill has been introduced in the Hawai-
ian cabinet, to prohibit the sale and manu-
facture of intoxicating drinks.....Philadel-
phia is credited with having built the heavi-
est carriage on record. It is styled by the
manufacturing company, the Portable Ho-
tel.


THE DUCHESS of Edinburgh is to be called 
"Her Royal Imperial" or "Imperial Royal
Highness," and will rank next to the Prin-
cess of Wales save on occasions when the
Princess Royal, the Crown Princess of Rus-
sia visits England. This is not in accor-
dance with the rule hitherto followed, by
which the daughters of the sovereign
ranked above the daughters-in-law. But
the Duchess of Edinburgh is imperial by
birth as well as royal by marriage, and for
this is the higher possition assigned her.


For the Exponent.
			WHAT IS LIFE?
	All matter is either organic or inorganic.
We call those organic bodies which are made
up of parts, which, however diversified in
themselves, are mutually adapted and mu-
tually dependent, and each of them capable 
of performing a certain function, or action.
A wax flower has its various parts, mutually
adapted and mutually dependent, but neith-
er in their individual or combined state can
these parts perform any vital function. They
have no principle of life, and without vitali-
ty there can be no organization, since all or-
ganization implies a living arrangement of
elements. The sculptor may cut a block of
marble into the form and fashion of a man;
but when finished, it is after all, only inert
matter in an elegant form. In one word,
wherever we find the living principle in
connection with matter, there we have or-
ganization in vital arrangement. In the
absence of this principle we have nothing
but a dead mass. To the question, "What is
life?" we can give back no answer. That 
there is such a thing as life, or vital action,
cannot be denied, and the only thing which


we can say with certainty concerning it, is,
that life is that which admits of develop-
ment. We go out to the garden with a peb-
ble and a flower seed in our hand. We com-
mit them both to the soil, and thus subject
them to the same agencies and influences.
The seed will burst, and germinate, and de-
velop itself into a beautiful and fragrant
flower; while the pebble may lie there for
years on years without undergoing the least
change. This mysterious life-principle 
which enters into all organized matter, is
found in its highest and most perfect form
in the animal economy, and among animals,
first and pre-eminent in Man. My dear
friends mark, learn and inwardly digest
these fundamental points; and you will find
every time you read, something new, some
things you never understood before. As we
are receiving instruction one of another I
hope this small contribution may meet with
approval. Yours truly,
