OFF ON A VISIT.

				Smithfield, May 17th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT;
	Dear Sister:—I left S. L. City on the 11th
inst., for a short visit to the “delightful north.”
On the cars, coming up, I had the pleasure
of making a number of new acquaintances,
through the courtesy of Miss C., which add-
ed much to the enjoyment of my journey.
	When we arrived at Ogden, it was rain-
ing, which rendered the changing of cars
not very agreeable. And upon reaching
the cars which were designed to take us to
our place of destination, we found them al-
ready filled to overflowing; a result
doubtless, of Conference having closed the
previous afternoon. While contemplating
this rather unexpected condition of things,
and feeling somewhat at a loss to know
how we, Miss C. and myself, were to be
provided for, the thought was suggested
that we might occupy the platform; which
we did in preference to remaining in Ogden
over night.
	By taking this “stand” on the “platform,”
(the only convenient one which presented
itself,) we had an excellent opportunity of
viewing the country through which we
traveled. The meadows and fields, looking
delightfully fresh and green after the little
shower of rain, added wonderfully to the
surrounding scenery, which, taken alto-
gether, was to me a source of lively pleas-
ure. Grand, majestic cliffs, towering to
the sky, their tall peaks covered with snow,
contrasted strangely with the open ground
over which we were traveling. Rocky and
dangerous as those rugged mountains ap-
pear, yet one feels while gazing upon them,
that to ascend their steep, broad sides, and
to reach, perchance, some spot where mor-
tal foot had never trod before, would be a
charming and invigorating exercise.


Logan we found, apparently just slipping
off the last remnants of her Winter garb,
and adorning herself in lovely Spring ha-
biliments.
	Arriving at S., one attraction in particu-
lar drew my attention; that was the beauti-
ful, clear stream of water which flows
through, I should judge, about the center
of the settlement. The banks of this stream,
shaded as they are on either side with tall,
waving trees, form localities which are
pleasant enough to satisfy the most fastidi-
ous.
	Altogether, S. has a very pleasing loca-
tion, situated at the foot of the mountain,
and is decidedly a most agreeable place for
rusticating. To-day I attended meeting,
passing a very comfortable Sabbath. As a
speciality, I might make mention of the
many good-looking children I have noticed
since coming into S.—Very Respectfully
Yours.						C. H. H.


