A WOMAN'S DEFENSE.

   A lady writer thus communicates to the
“Santa Barbara Index”.
   My husband is a specimen of the Ameri-
can nobility, brimful of patriotism and
Websterian sentiment; and, of course, a
great believer in, and admirer of, the Ameri-
can Press.	
   The other evening he was reading aloud
the news of the week. Among the rest
was an eloquent article upon the extrava-
gance of American women. 
   The writer of the aforesaid article de-
clares that the main cause of our present
hard times is the excessive importation of
foreign goods, to the neglect of our own
manufactures. The earnest expressions of
the writer, and the evident discouragement
of my good husband at this shocking state
of affairs, really alarmed me. Now, in the
seven years of our wedded life, it has been
my first care to be truly a helpmeet for him.
So,in the loving spirit of self-sacrifice,I said:
“My dear Dick, if it please you, we won’t
use anything imported for a year, and see
how we get on.” With a grateful look, and
the smile which I like so well, he ex-
claimed:
   “Just like my own little wife! if every
woman in the land were so loyal to its in-
terests, the country would indeed be safe.”
   Now, I pride myself on being practical,
so I proposed beginning in the morning.
“Let me see. No coffee, no tea, no choco-
late! How is that Dick?”
   “We’ll except the coffee, wife; you know
it is the main part of my breakfast.”
   Morning came. When I set the table for
breakfast, I put on the brown table-cover, be-
cause my white table-linen is of Irish manu-
facture. Of course, there were no napkins;
but, then, it is well to be self denying in
small things.
   I had the very spirit of July Fourth, and
so drank none of the amber-colored fluid in
which Dick delighted, and my glass of wa-
ter madq him look rather uncomfortable,
but he said nothing. True to the instincts
of our “business man,” he took out his
watch. “Dick,” said I, softly, “English
chronometer.”	
   “Bless you! so it is. Please except that.”
Up to the store he went, and with his pleas-
ant “Good morning,” he added, as usual,
“Any commissions?”
   “No, dear, I am coming up by and by.”
   After making the house tidy, and seeing
sundry dinner duties done, I went up town
to my husband’s store, Now, in our small
town, every merchant has general merchan-
dise, from millinery to molasses. And our
family supplies are usually from the store
As I entered, Dick was showing stockings
and gloves to some ladies. “These are genu-
ine Alexandre’s, imported from Paris, the
latest style! And these, ladies, are the very
best English hosiery.” So he went on.
And he sold the articles too; for they were
really worth the price asked for them. Then
I produced my memoranda: “Pins, thread,
currants, raisins, citron, and cinnamon.”
   “Have you American pins?”
   “O yes,” said Dick; “but they are quite
inferior to the English article.”
   “Now, Dick, you know I’m to be a loyal
American woman; so give me those of our
home manufacture and the American Coates’
thread if you please.”
   “How about the American pudding mate-
rials?” queried Dick, with a serio-comic
face. “Please except them, wife; you know
the pudding is the crownng article at din-
ner.” Of course I excepted them; for was
not Dick’s mother coming over to dine with
us to-morrow, and accompany us to the
grand party of the winter? On my way
home, I met Dick’s sister—about my age.
“What shall you wear to the party?” was
her first question. Now, I had just made
up a handsome silk—a Christmas present
from Dick—and had intended to wear it.
Even the full ruffle of real Valenciennes
lace; and the new three-button gloves, and
the stylish French gaiters were all ready.
But it occurred to me that all these were
foreign frippery, such as was ruining our
country: and I cast about for some other ar-,
rangements, to the great disgust of Dick’s
sister who asserted that she “was out of all
patience with me.” I confess I did want
to wear them; but what true wife prefers
her own adornment to the desire of pleas-
ing her husband?
   Dinner-time came, and with it came Dick.
His face was all aglow with delight, over
the acquisition of a splendid looking horse,
which he called me out to see and admire.
“A real English thorough bred,brought over
by one of my friends.”
   “What you Dick, buying an IMPORTED
horse!”
   The question was out; before I realized
how bad it would sound. Just like fault-
finding, for all the world! Poor Dick! his
enthusiasm was gone. Dinner was a very
silent meal in comparison with our usually
cheerful time and I wasn’t sorry to see him
go. I put on my best new Merrimac print,
and fastened my plain linen color, after
many blunt points of my new pins had tried
my patience. There was a pile of work
ready for the sewing machine.  I adjusted
my new thread and began its cheerful click.
What was the matter? My thread broke,
knotted, unwound in several different
places at once. Resolutely keeping my
temper, in earnest devotion to home manu-
factures, I tried again and again; but had to
give up at last, rather than ruin my gar-
ments before they were made. The morrow
was fuller of trials and mortifications. My
best table-linen, and my best China were
from Dresden. My dinner was a success,
and was praised by Dick’s mother; but the
last remnant of my loyalty went utterly to
the winds when Dick whispered, “Mother
hopes your new dress is stylish, and that
your Elizabethan ruff is au fait.”
   His very words imported!
   And now, Mr. Editor, while my husband
is smoking his choice Havana cigar, I en-
treat you to save and protect us from the un-
sparing critics of the day. No doubt there
are a few hundred butterflies among us, who
are only brown-coated wrens, easily satis-
fied at a moderate cost, and doing the ser-
vice of our own households! Can you not
defend us from such dreadful charged?


LEIGH Hunt was asked by a lady if he
would not venture on an orange. "Mad-
am," he replied, "I should be happy to do
so, but I am afraid I should tumble off."

	"ANNA, dear, if I should attempt to spell
Cupid, why could I not get beyond the first
syllable?" Anna gave it up, whereupon
William said, "Because I came to c, u, of
course, and I cannot go any further."

	MIGHT AND MAIN.—Lord Charles Som-
erset was telling a long story about his walk-
ing in the woods at Cape Town, Africa, one
day, when he came suddenly upon a huge
shaggy lion. "Thinking to frighten him,"
said the noble lord, "I ran at him with all
my might." "Whereupon," said another,
interrupting, "he ran away with all his
mane." "Just so," said his lordship.


