	HARMONY OF COLORS.

	We, as a people, are having many splen-
did opportunities to beautify and embellish
our homes by the workmanship of our own
hands. And in order that we may do so
scientifically, that every addition we make
for improvement, may be in unison with the
furniture, wearing apparel, or other articles
already in use, it is necessary that we should
obtain, by diligent research and study of
the fine arts, a knowledge of how to arrange
and decide for ourselves the kind of colors
we wish to bring together, that the whole
may so blend and beautifully harmonize,
not only in things themselves but with all
their immediate surroundings, as to be pleas-
ing and satisfactory to the trained eye of
the most refined. I would refer in an espe-
cial manner to the selection of colors in the
manufacture, by our ladies, of beautiful bed
quilts, hearth rugs, &c., although these re-
marks apply equally as well to the laying
out of flower gardens, the arrangement of
bouquets, the trimming of hats and bonnets,
painting of rooms, papering of walls or the
adornment of the person; and as we ladies
are going into the printing business exten-
sively, my suggestions would also be appli-
cable in the printing of rainbow colored
cards, bills, and every instance where vari-
ous colors are brought in contact with each
other, so that nothing may be discordant or
displeasing to the observing or criticising
eye. One thing to be remembered is, that,
as to the musician a note inserted in the
wrong place is to his trained ear a discord,
so is the introduction of an inharmonious
color a discord to the eye of the artist. How
often is it the case in our associations to-
gether, that a sister will bring out, for us to
admire, that exquisite bed quilt that has
taken so much of her valuable time, atten-
tion and exertions to put together? But
she has embellished it with all the colors of
the prismatic spectrum, the hues of the
rainbow, with all the properties of the pho-
togenic and sciogenic elements of light and
shade without due regard to the harmony
that should exist in the distribution and ar-
rangement of the variety of colors inserted.
This brings to my mind quite forcibly, the
scene of the colors displayed by the thou-
sands of sisters when seated in our densely
crowded tabernacle. Perhaps in a future
time, I may have something to suggest on
this subject, through your columns, to my
sisters of the Relief Societies. Understand-
ing from experience that it is one thing to
find fault, and quite another thing to mend a
fault I purpose giving a few hints on this
subject, realizing that the diffusion of all
useful knowledge is a principle we, as a peo-
ple believe in; and from whatever source it
may emanate it is acceptable and instruct-
ive. Every one must have observed that
certain colors when brought together, set off
each other to advantage; while others have
altogether a different effect. This must be
carefully attended to by whoever would dis-
play beauty or elegance in her work. Any
one color will appear well on a white ground.
Red comes in between white, black or yel-
low; blue next to white or yellow, green
next to black or white, orange or gold color
must be contiguous to black or brown. Let
me here remark that a white article reflects
all the rays that constitute a white light, al-
though in some instances it may reflect some
colored light also, according as the surfaces
are smooth, rough, glossy or channelled. The
optical effect of a color is greatly modified
by the condition of the surface of the colored
article; thus, pieces of silk, cotton, woolen,
linen and velvet although dyed of exactly
the same hue and tone of color, appear to be
of quite different tints. The depth or in-
tensity of color, presented by velvets and
certain flowers, such as the heartsease, is
due to the surface being channelled, ridged,
or furrowed. Here are a few instances, how
colors can appear to be changed by contact
with other colors. Red, for example, by be-
ing placed in contact with blue, appears yel-
low, in contact with yellow it has a bluish
appearance, with green it appears purer and
brighter, in contact with black it appears
duller, with white it appears lighter and
brighter; gray also makes it appear more
bright. Place two pieces together of dif-
ferent colors but of the same tone or inten-
sity. If they are not too wide, they will
appear quite different from what they do
when viewed separately; this is called con-
trast of color. If we place, side by side,
two pieces of the same color but different
shades, the light one will appear lighter, and
the dark one darker; this is called contrast
of tone. Blue must not be placed by the
side of violet, because blue enters into the
composition of violet; the blue makes the
violet look faded, while the violet gives the
blue a greenish appearance. A deep blue
and a deep red both gain intensity of color
by contact with each other. Yellow and
blue are so dissimilar that their contrast is
sufficiently great to produce a favorable as-
sociation, while red and orange are quite
the reverse. Red and blue harmonize bet-
ter than red and violet; yellow and red har-
monize better than yellow and orange, al-
though these latter will harmonize better
than red and orange, because red predomi-
nates in the orange. For the same reason,
yellow and green appear better than blue
and green. When two light colors do not
look well together, separate them with
white, but the deep colors should be separa-
ted by black. Red and orange do not look
well together, yet if separated by black an
agreeable and harmonious effect is produced.
Much more could be said on this subject. I
know from experience that my sisters, the
ladies of Utah, have in many instances, to
use up whatever pieces they may happen to
have by them; but where we have to dye
any of them, we can have an eye to the har-
mony of colors. We must consider that
pink comes under the denomination of red,
because red enters largely into the composi-
tion of pink; as blue does in violet, yellow
in green and orange. In the prismatic spec-
trum and in the rainbow we look for our
standard colors; of these, there are three,
viz., red, blue and yellow. These are called
primary colors, and when transferred
through a prism upon a white surface, pro-
duce a white light; therefore, either one of
the three should always be omitted and
never placed beside the other two.
	As my communication has already assum-
ed such extensive dimensions, while the
subject in hand is not nearly exhausted, I
will defer further remarks till some future
period.				R. J. FILCE.
	20th Ward, S. L. City.


There are ninety-five ladies in Michigan Univer-
sity, distributed through the different departments,
of which number it is expected that Miss Nancy
Hill, of the Medical Class, graduating in March,
will settle in Dubuque Iowa; and Mrs. T. S. Law-
rence in Emporia, Kansas.
	Jane M. Slocum of the Law Class, will resume
her situation as teacher of Metaphysics and Science
of Government, in Howard College, at Union
Springs, New York. Mary P. Stockbridge,
the other member of the Law. Class, will remain
in Ann Arbor to study another year.


