FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC.
	The following petition which was presented
to the Mayor and City Council, on the 19th ult.,
was read, and received by that body, and a mo-


tion was passed to grant, as far as the laws will
admit, the solicitations therein offered.

"To the Mayor and City Council of Salt Lake
			City.

	"Gentlemen.—You will all admit the fact
that the present traffic in spirituous liquor is
demoralizing to society. Through those influ-
ences which are connected with drinking sa-
loons the unsuspecting, and especially the
young, are exposed to and acquire pernicious
habits greatly to the detriment of the rising
generation. From causes which need not be
herein stated, this evil has been introduced
into our midst, and its increase has been, from
year to year, fearfully apparent.
	"To you, City Fathers, we look and fervently
appeal for the remedy against this growing evil,
this blighting traffic, destructive to both soul
and body.
	"However large the revenue your treasury
may receive from the issuing of licenses for
this polluting trade, we ask, what is that, in
comparison with the high consideration of
moral worth and manly, Godlike intellect now
being drawn into nets rife with poisonous influ-
ences? Viewing it as a pestilential disease,
which demands a speedy and powerful check,
we, the undersigned women of Salt Lake City,
do herein earnestly petition your honorable
board that you will not license the sale of in-
toxicating drink.
	"In appealing to you we feel confident that
we are pleading with men of upright conscien-
ces; men of intelligence and sound judgment;
thoughtful, reflecting and considerate men,
who regard the welfare of society; men to
whom words need not be multiplied, and to
whom, therefore, we cheerfully and respect-
fully submit this petition.
	"SALT LAKE CITY,
						"May 17th, 1874."
	Four thousand ladies of this city who affixed
their names to the above petition, are gratified
with, and thank the City Fathers for the kind
attention which it has received. They also still
trust implicitly, that all that can be, will be
done to accomplish the good design in behalf
of which this step has been taken.


