FLOWERS.

	TIME is the old Justice that examines all
offenders.
	BE not afraid of hard study; it is the
price of learning.
	THE flower of youth never appears more
beautiful than when it bends towards the
Sun of Righteousness.
	GOLDEN WORDS.—In private, watch your
thoughts; in the family, watch your temper;
in company, watch your tongue.
	THE darkest day in any man’s earthly ca-
reer is that wherein he fancies that there is
some easier way of gaining a dollar than by
squarely earning it.
	A FRIEND should be one in whose under-
standing and virtue we can equally confide,
and whose opinion wo can value at once for
its justness and sincerity.
	MENTAL grace is essential to true beauty.
Without it, the fairest form disappoints and
wearies. It is the radiance that sets off
every other charm, and sheds on each its
appropriate hue.
	BY reading we enjoy the dead; by con-
versation, the living; and by contemplation,
ourselves. Reading enriches the memory;
conversation polishes the wit; and contem-
plation improves the judgment.
	THE man who can make his own fire,
black his own boots, carry his own wood,
hoe his own garden, pay his own debts, and
lives without wine and tobacco, need ask no
favor of him who rides in a coach and four.
	AMONG all other virtues, humility, the
loveliest, is pre-eminent. It is the safest
because it is always at anchor; and the man
may truly be said to live the most content
in his calling that strives to live within the
compass of it.
	THE true American patriot, is the “sober
man, anxious in thought, faithful in service,
alive to the least and humblest duty as man
or citizen, sturdy and steady under dull
routine, and resolved that through him the
republic receive no harm.”—J. F. W. Ware.
	OFTENTIMES nothing but adversity will
do for us. We need to be stripped of every
earthly portion, that we may seek entirely
our portion in Jehovah himself. We need
to be turned out of our home on earth, that
we may seek a home in heaven.
	A MAN takes contradiction and advice
much more easily than most people think,
only he will not take it when violently
given, even though it be well founded.
Hearts are flowers; they remain open to the
softly falling dew, but shut up in the violent
downpour of rain.
	OVER and above every other social trait
stands cheerfulness. What the sun is to na-
ture—what God is to the stricken heart
which knows how to lean upon Him—are
cheerful persons in the house and by the
wayside. They go unobtrusively, uncon-
sciously, about their silent mission, bright-
ening up society around them with the hap-
piness beaming from their faces. We love
to sit near-them; we love the expression of
their eye, the tone of their voice. Little
children soon find them out.


