 	LAIE, OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS,
						April 26th, 1874.
   *   *   *   *   The weather of the past few
days has been extremely warm. Our Con-
ference passed off in a very spirited man-
ner, the white breathren having a good
flow of the spirit of the Gospel, and the
natives seeming to partake of the same in-
fluence. *  *  *  This is a strange people,
many of them will acknowledge their faults
to-day and seem to repent, and to-morrow
commit the same sins over again. But
when they would do right, evil is ever be-
fore them to tempt them from the paths of
virtue. We cannot be surprised at this,
when we take into consideration the life of
idleness and profligacy they led for so many
years before the Gospel found them. And
it did not find them any too soon, for the
seeds of death are wide spread among them,
and it will only be by the redeeming power
of the Gospel that a remnant will be saved.
	We had the honor of entertaining the
King of the Islands last Wednesday, in
company with about two hundred ladies
and gentlemen of high social and political
rank; on their way round the Island. They
started from Honolula on Monday and de-
sign making the round trip by Saturday
night. You can imagine my feelings when
on Tuesday afternoon a message came in-
forming us of his intention to stop here
Wednesday, and his desire to see all the
people on the Island. I acknowledge
that I did not know how to commence to
prepare for such a reception. Living, as we
do, so far from Honolula, our only source of
supplies, as to render it impossible to send
there for want of time, we were obliged to
make the best of what we had. And after
it was all over, I had proved the saying to
be true, “Where there’s a will there’s a
way.” I went to work with all the faith I
could get, and provided food upon which
sixty or more persons dined, and then there
was some left. We entertained all of his
Majesty's particular friends at the house;
the rest were provided for at the meeting
house, where they had all the beef, pork,
fish, poi and sweet potatoes they could eat.
Brother Mitchell painted two mottoes; one,
"Welcome KALAKANA to Laie," was placed
where he first came upon the land; the
other, “Long live the King,” at the en-
trance of the big gate a short distance from
the house. Each formed an arch and was
ornamented with fern leaves and vines.
At half past eleven, his Majesty rode up
with the whole company dressed in uniform;
the gentlemen in red over shirts and black
pantaloons, and the ladies in short red jack-
ets and black dresses. They were all upon
horseback except the Governor of Oahu and
his lady, his Majesty's sister Mrs. Cleghorn,
and two other ladies; these occupied three
buggies. It was a grand sight, the morn-
ing was beautiful and the good people of
Laie had put on their “best bib and tucker”
and assembled in our yard. On the approach
of the party they formed in two lines from
the gate to the house. At the former place
the King and Queen alighted and were met
by Brother Mitchell who welcomed them to
our humble accommodations and accompa-
nied them to the house. I could not have
believed that the presence of the King of
a semi-barbarous people could produce so
solemn and grand an effect. He walked
with uncovered head, saluting his people as
he passed them. His conduct was noble and
manly, his manners, entirely free from af-
fectation, were cordial and easy. He pre-
sented in person his friends to us; after
which he walked among the crowd and
shook hands, it seemed to me, with every-
body, and was extremely sociable with all.
The choir and school children sang for him,
and he delivered a short address, express-
ing his high appreciation of the prosperous
appearance of the people of Laie; said he
was deeply impressed with the sentiments
expressed in Brother Mitchell's prayer,
(which was offered at his solicitation.) he
had heard a great deal about the people of
Laie and had come in person to see them;
the sentiments of their shepherd were such
as he wished them to observe; he was aston-
ished to see the number of children, he had
never seen so many for the number of
grown people in any district he had visited.
His Majesty was followed by his Excellency
Governor Noa of Kanai, a real clever look-
ing old gentlemen, who was perfectly de-
lighted with all he saw. The speechifying
closed with a short one from Brother Mitch-
ell who seemed fully charged for the occa-
sion. He explained some of the objects of
our being here, which were to teach the
people the principles of life, how to improve
their social condition to be industrious and
self-sustaining; that they, being a branch
of the house of Israel, the Lord would
gather a remnant of them into His fold.
He blest the King and told him that if he
would aid in the good work of redeeeming
his people, his reign should be filled with
peace, prosperity and longevity. The spirit
of the Lord manifestly rested upon us all.
The King said he was greatly impressed
with what had been spoken, and we have 
since heard of his high appreciation of it.
Dinner being ready they partook of our
hospitality to their hearts content and de-
parted with a “God speed” to all.
	Yesterday, Bros. M. B. Young, B. String-
ham, and W. H. Branch, left for the fields
of labor appointed them at our late Confer-
ence. Bro. Y. goes to Maui, Bro. S. to
Kanai, and Bro. B. to Hawaii. They will
be separated from us and from each other
until next Conference. They are brave fel-
lows, full of faith and good aspirations.
God bless them!	*	*	*	*	*
	Brother Mitchell's labors are such that he
never rests a moment it seems to me. But
he is where duty calls, his duties being so
numerous that time for needful recreation
he has none. He tells me to do as the Na-
tives say so often, “Hoamanawanui.” (Be
patient.) And I suppose it would not be out
of place to get you to recommend the same
for the consideration of the brethren to
whom he should have written but for want
of time.
	Our diet consists principally of rice, sweet
potatoes, flour, beef, brown sugar and poi.
Brother M. makes beef and poi his princi-
pal living. Poi is the food most adapted to
this climate. The children eat it sometimes,
and they keep quite healthy.	     *	      *
