FROM THE "DESERET NEWS," DEC. 1865.

	Yes, Immortality: That bosom word,
To me, has inspiration in it. Love
Of life, is innate in the human soul:
'Tis interwoven in our natures. 'Twas
Decreed in the grand council of the Gods,
When canvassing the great eternal scheme
Concerning destinies of man and earth,
That mankind should inherit love of life;
Else, man, grown weary of a world of woes
And fickle tides of happiness, would haste
To make his exit, and e'en God Himself
Had failed to keep enough, as instruments,
On earth, to execute His purposes.

	Thus death, the happy counterpoise to life,
Has long been branded with fell hideousness—
False-styled "the king of terrors," 'monster' fiend,"
"Insatiate archer" and whole catalogues
Of horrid names; to form a barrier
Of fear, lest man, with suicidal hand.
Should clip the brittle thread of life and rush
   In multitudes, into eternity.

	"Christ came, them to redeem who thro' the fear
Of death, were all their life time subject to
Its bondage." To the faithful Saints of God,
Who live to do his will, death has no sting;
'Tis a kind porter to conduct us where
A realm of light and beauty shines around—
A world of glorious Immortality!
A World? Yes, worlds of vast immensity.
And what of us? We'll be our very selves,
Free from all imperfections consequent
Upon the curse, entailed thro' Adams fall:
T' enjoy life's sweet associations, such
As parents, children, husbands, wives and friends—
With Gods and Goddesses—with the noblesse
Of all eternities, and freely bask
In full, bright sunbeams of intelligence,
With legal access to its mighty fount—
A life divested of mortality,
Yet life as real as existence here.

	I've had a taste of mortal suffering:
I've seen my fellows drink its cup fill'd to
The brim and running o'er, until the pulse
Of life was clogg'd in every wheel—until
Nature's deep agonies outweigh'd the love
Of life, and yet the throbbing pulse beat on.
But, thanks to God, there is an end decreed
To human sorrow, pain and misery.
I aim—I live for Immortality,
Life, knowledge, bliss, without one stopping point.

	A thought that I should ever cease to be,
Would paralyze all other thought; would chill
The brightest beams of joy, and would crush out
Each holy aspiration of the heart—
Eradicate that precious organ, hope—
Embargo enterprize, and dry up all
The tributary streams of happiness.

	There's nothing short of Immortality,
Can satisfy the earnest cravings of
That spark of pure divinity, which God
Implanted, as the fine, constituent part
Of beings, organized with attributes.
Like His—the germ of an eternal life:
	
	Crown of all wisdom, sum of good to man,
Scheme of the God's, redemption's glorious plan;
This, through the resurrection's power combines
Immortal bodies and immortal minds.
								E. R. Snow.


