	SALT LAKE CITY, May 26th, 1874.
  A special meeting was held by the Relief 
Society of the 3rd Ward, May 16th, 1874.
There were present as visitors, Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Zina D., Mar-
garet P. and Susan S. Young, and Mrs. Pre-
cinda Kimball. Mrs Horne spoke encour-
agingly, told the sisters to go on in the
good work they were engaged in, &c.
Miss Snow gave some excellent advice to
mothers in regard to the rearing of their
children and the watchful care they should
have over their daughters; she wished to
impress upon the minds of the young ladies,
the necessity of attending their meetings,
praying for the gifts of God, which it was
their privilege to enjoy; to have a strong
will, and take a firm stand, that they would
perform any duty that was required of them.
She also spoke upon the United Order, its
advantages and blessings. The other sis-
ters above mentioned made some excellent
and appropriate remarks, and were followed
by Bishop Weiler, Counselor John Wayman
and Brother Peter Sinclair. It is a unani-
mous feeling in the Society that they will
try to carry out the instructions that were
given, that they may receive the blessings
which are in store for the faithful.
		Mrs. Zurviah G. Eardly, Sec'y.

				NEPHI, May 27th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Young Ladies' Society was organized
March 19th, 1874. Miss Charlotte Hyder
Evans was chosen President, Miss Alice
Evans and Miss Matilda E. Picton Counsel-
ors, Miss Roxey Lucina Bigler Secretary.
Our meetings are pretty well attended and
those who attend feel well in the work. In
our meetings we bear testimony to the truth
of the Gospel and read pieces from the ever
welcome EXPONENT. Miss Alice Evans
has formed a class for all those who wish to
learn the different stitches of netting. We
all take our own work, whatever it may be,
and altogether we have very good and in-
teresting times. Some of the brethren and
elder sisters visit us sometimes and give us
instructions. We hold meetings every oth-
er Friday. Hoping your paper will increase
in circulation and do much toward building
up the Kingdom of God, we remain your
sisters in the Gospel of Christ.
	MISS CHARLOTTE H EVANS, President,
	MISS ROXEY LUCINA BIGLER, Secretary.

