WOMAN'S VOICE.

				OXFORD, May 3rd, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—I have been a reader of
this little paper from its beginning, and I 
think there is none other of its size that can 
compare with it.  To me its precepts are of
great importance; and when I read, I feel a
union in spirit with those of my Sisters,
who are engaged in so good a cause.  All
the principles of this Gospel, so far as I un-
derstand them, afford happiness, in this 
life, setting aside what I expect to receive
in the next, according to my faithfulness.
In my heart I can say to my sisters, let us
not withhold our mites, but let us continue
in well doing.			LITTLE ONE.

			MANTI, May 31st, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Judging from appearances, one might
think that but few, comparatively, really
understand and appreciate the blessings
which surround us.  We not only possess
the right of suffrage, a privilege still denied
to the great majority of our countrywomen,
but we also enjoy a portion of the rights
guaranteed by the Constitution, freedom of
speech and of the press, notwithstanding
the attempts of dishonest officials to deprive
us of them.  And so far from being what
we have been represented by sensationed
newspaper writers,—"The poor, oppressed
and downtrodden women of Utah," we are
quite the reverse; and to-day are enjoying
more freedom than our sisters east or west
of us.  If our sex is destined to become a 
power in the land, what should prevent the
women of Utah being in the front rank?
Certainly not a lack of inclination or ability.
Time and opportunity are all that is required
to call forth the genius and talents that exist
among us.  Lest I encroach too far upon 
your time and space, and weary you or your 
readers;  I will conclude for the present,
hoping that you will still continue to be a 
bold champion for the cause of truth. Very
Respectfully,				A. L. Cox.


Mrs. S. A. Grifford, President of the Praying
Woman's Temperance Union of Worcester, has 
published a card saying that she entered into the
temperance movement with the distinct avowal
that while she regarded labor in the saloons as im-
portant, she did not think it was the first to claim
the efforts of the women, and could not feel it her
duty to lead the bands.


