OUR THIRD BIRTHDAY.

	As we enter upon our third year, there is an
agreeable charm to us, in reviewing the labors
of the past two years, in which we have realized
much satisfaction and, comparatively, little dis-
appointment. So far, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
of Salt Lake City has unquestionably reached
the object of its designers, even more fully than
their brightest hopes could at first have led
them to anticipate. It has greatly assisted, by
the influence which it has created and sus-
tained, meager though it may appear, in arous-
ing thousands of women, in the midst of the
Latter-day Saints, to a new sense of the obli-
gations resting upon them as daughters, sisters,
wives and mothers; as social beings, as citizens,
as WOMEN. Many who might never have be-
lieved themselves capable of writing for the
press, or scarcely of forming in their own minds,
ideas which could be of public interest, and
who could find no time even for reading, are
becoming happily familiarized with these pro-
fitable means of intellectual culture. We have
received numerous little "gems" for publica-
tion, accompanied with the apology, "It is my
first attempt." In reading such, a feeling of
sympathetic pride that the effort has been made,
and a realization of the diffidence with which it
has been forwarded is always present with us,


and we hope, for the author's sake, it may not
be the last.
	We would urge our Sisters to continue their
reading, thinking and writing; for these exer-
cises, properly pursued, are true methods of ac-
quiring and communicating intelligence. And
because a woman is a wife and mother, with
home and family cares to claim the larger por-
tion of her time and attention, is no reason
why the privilege of improving her mental
faculties should be withheld from her; or that
she should voluntarily lay it aside for things of
less importance to herself and to future genera-
tions.	
	In contemplating the vastness of the future
extending before the women of Utah, we would
impress upon them, so far as we have the power
of doing so, the necessity of THEIR being dili-
gent, enterprising and above all United in the
noble works which they will be called to per-
form, to assist in the regeneration of mankind.
	And for their EXPONENT, inasmuch as it has
made nearly as many friends as acquaintances
during its humble career so far—as little cause
for regrets have occured in the events of its
past life, and as its present prospects are favor-
able considering the universal cry of "hard
times," we cheerfully and hopefully prognosti-
cate for it a lively and useful future; thanking
God and our many friends for past blessings
and favors and trusting to the same powers for
encouragement and aid in times to come.


