HOME AFFAIRS.

	CONFERENCE IN St. George, opened on the
5th inst.

	BRO. L. J. Herrick, Bishop of Ogden, arrived
home on the evening of the 14th inst. from his
European mission.

	THE BEAVER "Enterprise," after another
change, is now edited by Mr. David Tyler, and
published by the Beaver Publishing Co.

	THE "MILLENIAL STAR" of May 19th an-
nounces that the second and third companies
of Saints for this year, were appointed to start
for Utah on the 10th and 24th of this month.

	A COMPANY has been incorporated to build a
railroad from this city to Coalville; distant
about forty-five miles. The capital stock has
been fixed at $1,000,000; of this $62,500 has been
subscribed.

	THE PROVO "Times" of June 4th stated that
the ladies of Provo were signing a petition to
the City Council, asking them not to license
more than one person to sell ardent liquors, and
that only for medical purposes.

	A QUANTITY of live oysters were recently
planted at the mouth of the Weber river where
it enters the Great Salt Lake. We hope the
experiment will be a successful one. The oys-
ters were left by Commissioner Stone, while on
his way West, and planted by Albert P. Rock-
wood, Esq., who takes great interest in fishcul-
ture.

	A GRAND Jubilee for the Sabbath Schools of
Utah County was held at Provo, on Monday,
the 15th inst. The weather was bright and
pleasant and at 10 a.m. about three thousand
children, with several thousand adults had as-
sembled at the Bowery where the jubilee was
to take place. The exercises began with
"Opening Hymn," full chorus, and prayer;
then followed original, and select songs, chiefly
culled from the "Juvenile Instructor" and the
"Charm,"—original recitations by members of
the different Sunday schools, and excellent
music from the brass, and string bands in at-
tendance. The exercises were interspersed with
brief, encouraging addresses by Presidents B.
Young, G. A. Smith, Elders G. Goddard, E.
Snow, J. B. Maiben, and recitation by Elder
D. McKenzie. The children were gratified,
during the recess at midday, with an interior
view of the large woolen Factory, which, by
courtesy of Pres. A. O. Smoot, was thrown open
for that purpose.
	The committee of arrangements were Messers
D. John, W. Paxman, W. N. Dusenberry, A.
Jones and S. S. Jones. Prof. J. E. Daniels con
ducted the musical exercises. Altogether the
accasion passed off pleasantly and the Jubilee
was considered a great success.


