		WASHINGTON CITY, May 19th.
	The Young Ladi's Retrenchment Asso-
ciation, of this city, holds weekly meetings
which are well attended. Much improve-
ment has been made by the association since
its organization. Lately a quorum of Teach-
ers, with a President has been elected in ad-
dition to the former officers. This commit-
tee numbers nine, whose names are as fol-
lows: Mrs. Jane Brands, President; mem-
bers, Misses Josephine Clark, Phebe Cov-
ington, Susan Chidester, Julia Vanarden,
Maria Sarensen, Ruth Richie, Carolina Pe-
terson, Virginia Tyler. It is the desire and
the design of the Association to learn to
realize more fully the privileges vouchsafed
to young Latter-day Saints, and by acting
upon them, to improve in every good thing.
To let alone the follies of the outside world,
to set good examples and be leaders in the
way of virtue, rather than followers after
vanity.		LUCY COOPER, President.

From RICHMOND, CACHE CO., May 22nd, 1874.
	According to previous appointment, a
number of ladies met in the Richmond
Hall, Thursday, May 14th, 1874 for the pur-
pose of organizing a Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association. Sister S. A. Merrill
made some excellent remarks, and Miss
Mary Stewart spoke of the benefits of such 
an association, and explained to some ex-
tent what was meant by "Retrenchment."
Several other sisters made appropriate re-
marks. The following officers were unani-
mously elected.
	Miss Mary Stewart President; Miss Dela
Stewart, Mrs. Hannah Stewart, Mrs. Sarah
Stewart, Miss Ella Griffon, Miss Mary
Lewis, Miss Abbie Pond, Miss Josephine
Whittle, Counselors; Miss Phebe A. Mer-
rill Secretary, Mrs. Betsy Burnham Treas-
urer.
	It was resolved to hold meetings every
Thursday at 4 p. m.
	The young ladies all seem much interest-
ed, and are thankful that we have such an
organization in our midst.
			Phebe A. Merrill, Sec'y.


A LAWYER, in replying to his antagonist
in court, said he had “a keen rapier with
which to pierce all fools and knaves,” where-
upon his opponent “moved the Court” that
the rapier be taken from him, lest he should
commit suicide.


