PRACTICAL HINTS.
	MOUNT PLEASANT, SANPETE Co.
						May 3rd, 1874.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—Being desirous to
commit a few of my thoughts to paper, I
forward the same to you, for publication if
you deem it worthy.
	I address myself principally to the young,
although young and old have the same priv-
ileges in relation to the subject of which I
will write. Let those who possess an edu-
cation do their best to impart  knowledge to
others—striving to do so without show or
noise, going quietly and perseveringly
along in the work of developing and im-
proving the human mind—to feed and in-
struct and implant the principles of eternal
truth. The young lady who teaches her
sister the simple arts of reading and writ-
ing is putting in her possession the key to
all written knowledge, and placing within
her reach the power of active thought.
	Let every young lady's first duty be, to im-
prove, educate and elevate herself in the
social scale, helping forward all those asso-
ciated with her, by all reasonable means.
Therefore, young ladies, determine in your
own minds that you will advance, and the
first step is already taken, and half the bat-
tle won; and striving to advance yourselves,
will prove the most effectaul way of stimu-
lating and encouraging others. Example is
better than precept, and your own actions
will teach far more emphatically than words
can do, I speak of this as a duty binding
upon every young lady connected with the
Church and Kingdom of God. There is a
dignity in every effort that is made to culti-
vate talent and improve every gift that
the Almighty has bestowed upon us. It
produces a well regulated mind, it gives vir-
tue the mastery over vice, it drives away
care and secures comfort and will eventu-
ally aid us in being instruments in the
hands of our great Creator to do much good
to ourselves and our fellow creatures. Let
self-reform and self-improvement be our
motto.
	In conclusion, let me beg of the young
sisters to abserve good manners, and pro-
per deportment—at all times and under all
circumstances—and thus ultimately gain
power over every weakness and every evil
that may at any time present itself among
them.
	With a fervent desire to do good, I am,
your sister in the Gospel of Peace.
