R. S. REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of South Cottonwood
Ward held its Sixth Annual meeting, May
19th, 1874. Sister Mary I. Horne, and Sis-
ter Kimball from the city were present, also
Sister Howard and others from adjoining
wards; the Cottonwood Ward House was
well filled with earnest listeners. There
was singing, prayer, and the reading of 
minutes and financial reports, followed by
happy and instructive remarks from Elder
William G. Young and a number of the sis-
ters. Several sisters and a baby, being af-
flicted, were administered to; and meeting
adjourned until the second Thursday in
June.
	Mrs. Jannette Cahoon, President.
	Mrs. Anne E. Labrum,   }
	Miss Ella E. Despain,	}   Secretaries.

	From HYRUM, CACHE CO. May 13th, 1874.
	On Saturday, the 9th inst., the Relief So-
ciety of this Ward held its sixth Annual
meeting. Although the day was stormy,
there was a good attendance. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. Christina Liljenquist, after con-
gratulating the Society on the arrival of its
Sixth Anniversary, spoke upon their past
labors. They had been one in the past,
there had been nothing but peace and har-
mony among them, and the result was, that
God had abundantly blessed their humble 
endeavors to do good. All the officers had
been diligent and faithful in the discharge 
of their duties, as the report of the year
would show. The Secretary, Mrs. M. M.
Nielson then read the financial statement.
The books showed that there had been re-
ceived $226.65, and that a goodly portion of
the amount had been disbursed to aid the
sick, the poor, and to assist in other good
works. The report was unanimously ac-
cepted. Addresses were then delivered by
Mrs. Lucy Wilson and Martha Ward, (Coun-
selors,) also by several of the Teachers.
Each speaker congratulated the Society upon
its improvements, and the good feeling that
had existed among its members during the
past six years, which was something to be
proud of, and was a strong proof that nearly
two hundred women, associated together in
the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the mutual
benefit of themselves and all within their
influence, were not only capable of intelli-
gently exercising the right of franchise
that had been conferred on them, but also
of filling woman's mission on earth, as 
Mothers, Wives and Daughters, dispensing
aid and comfort to all who were in need.
The standing officers were unanimously sus-
tained for the ensuing year. The EXPO-
NENT was well spoken of, and arrangements
were made for an increased list for the com-
ing Volume. Elders C. C. Shaw and H. H.
Petersen addressed the meeting, encourag-
ing the ladies in their good works. The
Sunday School Choir, under the direction of
Professor H. H. Peterson, added greatly to
the interest of the meeting by their sweet
singing. The Society has three shares of
ten dollars each in the Hyrum Branch of Z.
C. M. I. Bishop Liljenquist has just re-
turned from Salt Lake City, having pur-
chased a Library which will be managed by
the Society. Hoping you will pardon me
for trespassing on your valuable space, and
praying God to bless you in your enterprise
which has already done much good among
your sisters, I remain yours very respect-
fully,			HARRIET A. SHAW.

