PEN AND SCISSORS.
	PLACARDS on the St. Louis street cars de-
clare that "this car can't wait for ladies to
kiss good-bye."
	BULWER considered journalism more
fitted to destroy bad governments than to
construct foundations for good ones,
	WE think there is much truth in the ob-
servation of Josh Billings that "success
don't konsist in never making blunders, but
in never making the same one the seck-
ond time."
	HAPPINESS between husband and wife
can only be secured by that constant ten-
derness and care of parties for each other
which are based upon warm and demonstra-
tive love.  In a word, ever-present and ever-
demonstrative gentleness must reign, or
else the heart starves.
	A WORTHY Quaker thus wrote:—"I ex-
pect to pass through this world  once. If,
therefore, there be any kindness I can show,
or any good thing I can do to my fellow hu-
man beings, let me do it now.  Let me not 
defer nor neglect it, for I will  not pass this
way again."
	AN unexptected meeting of a long separa-
ted father and son took place in a San 
Francisco restaurant the  other day.  The 
father had been in the mines for years, but
through the removal of his family his let-
ters had failed to reach them, and they had
believed him dead until the son recognized
him in the heavily bearded gentleman sit-
ting opposite him at the table.
	SOMEBODY was once offering advice to
General Jackson, during his Presidential ca-
reer, and showing a vast amount of wisdom
about something that did not in the least
concern him.
	He finished at last, as all things earthly
must have an end—when the old General 
said quietly:
	"I knew a man, down in Tennessee, who 
was very poor and had a large family; but
he brought them up well, and showed them
all how to make their fortunes.  How do
you think he did it?"
	"Don't know, I am sure."
	"Taught them to mind their own busi-
ness," replied the old warrior.—Phil. Home
Weekly.
	EXPRESSION IN DR[---]—Owen Meredith 
remarks: "Women are more like flowers
than we think.  In their dress and adorn-
ment they express their natures as the flow-
ers do their petals and colors.  Some wo-
men are like modest daisies and violets--
they never look nor feel better than when
dressed in a plain morning wrapper.  Others
are not themselves unless they can flame out
in gorgeous dyes, like [---] tulip or blush 
rose.  Who has not seen women just like
white lilies?  We know several marigolds
and popies. There are women fit only for
velvets, like dahlias; others are graceful
and airy, like the azaleas.  Now and then
you see hollyhocks and sunflowers.  When
women are free to dress as they like uncon-
trolled by others, and not limited by their
circumstances, they do not fail to express
their true character, and dress becomes a 
form of expression very genuine and useful."


A YOUNG gentleman asked a young lady
what she thought of the marriage state in
general. “Not knowing, can’t tell,” was
the reply, “but if you and I were to put our-
heads together, I could soon give you a defi-
nite answer.”


