HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Good Hints for Mothers.—Affection often fails
to attain the best ends, through unwise direction.
There was one known as a "devoted mother"—
untiring, patient, faithful, and wishing to do her
duty. But she failed to see that "many women
are admirable house keepers, but not home-makers."
When her children were quite small, she was, dili-
gently caring for their bodily needs, and forgot the
demands to be made by and through "the many
sidedness" of the immortal nature. She neglected
society, and so, for the want of the necessary
stimulus, grew careless in her dress, manners, and
speech; Having, as she said, no time to spare, she
gave up books and papers, until she had little
knowledge of anything outside her own home-
world, which she was unconsciously making piti-
fully narrow. What was the consequence? Her
family grew up with many natural gifts; but no
﻿grace of manner, taste in dress, or general literary
culture. As they went out into the world, they
began to blame their mother for being “old fash-
ioned,” and to lament that some of the money so
carefully hoarded “to give them a start in life,”
had not been spent earlier in making home pleasant,
and in cultivating a taste for books and music.
Correct language at home would, by the power of
example, have done more for them than all the
tedious rules studied at school. Simpler fare at
table, with the hospitality affording more social
intercourse, would have gained them life-long friends
and an ease of manner which after years could
never supply. A wiser economy of time would
have led the mother occasionally into the school-
room, to show a hearty co-operation with the teach-
ers and sympathy with the children in their work
there. Perhaps these children grew up to be
Christians, and accomplished much; but they
might have filled a larger sphere, and been nobler
in character, with a different training.

	Recipe for making good yeast.—Boil a handful
of hops and eight good-sized potatoes, pared in
one gallon of water. The hops should be tied
loosely in a rag. When the potatoes are done
mash them thoroughly or grate them, first pouring
the liquor into another vessel. Pour the liquor
over the potatoes again when mashed, adding one-
half cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of salt. Let
it boil a minute but stir to prevent sticking. Use
no flour, as it is more liable to sour when flour is
used. Pour off into an earthen vessel to cool, and
when nearly cold add one cup of good yeast. In
a few hours it is ready for use: This yeast will
keep sweet one month in the hottest weather, if
covered closely and placed in a cool cellar, and it
makes splendid bread if properly managed. Bread
should not be salted where this yeast is used. If
prefered, this yeast or part of it, may be made in-
to cakes and dried which will last six months—
though it is better to make fresh as often as once
in three months—by adding fresh corn meal until
a stiff dough is obtained. Work into a smooth
roll and slice with a knife into cakes one-half inch
thick. Dry in the open air but shaded from the
sun.

	Another.—Boil a pint bowl full of hops in two
gallons of water, strain and add a teacupful of
flour, one of brown sugar, a teaspoonful of salt.
No yeast is required to raise it. Let it stand
three days in a warm place, and it will then begin
to foam. Then boil three pounds of potatoes,
mash fine and add them to the yeast, and stir the
whole well together; then put into a jug and cork
tight and set in a cool place. It should be made
at least two weeks before using, and it will keep
any length of time, and grow better all the while.
A small teacupful is sufficient for six loaves of
bread. When this is gone, make a new jug full in
the same way, and keep it corked tight, and you
never need go to the baker’s or brewer’s for yeast.
Since writing the above, my wife opened a large
bottle full of this yeast, that had been sealed and
put in the cellar for more than a year, and the
usual quantity raised her bread splendidly.—Ru-
ral New Yorker.

	Salt and Milk Rising Bread.—Take half a tea-
spoonful of salt to a pint of warm water and stir
in flour enough to make a thick batter. The dish
used, which with the spoon should be thoroughly
cleansed and scalded, should be a little more than
two-thirds full, and set in a warm place until the
batter rises, so as to fill it. The most common
way is to put the rising in warm water and set it
where it will keep at quite a warm temperature;
but some use cloth or paper to exclude the cool air
instead of placing in water. The time in which
the rising will sufficiently ferment is usually from
five to seven hours, according to the degree of
warmth and the kind of flour used. When “light,”
take a quantity of flour corresponding to the
amount of bread desired and stir in scalding (not
boiling) water enough to scald one-third, then add
cold water (or milk, which is better,) enough to
[right column]
cool the scalded flour so that it will not scald the
rising; put in the rising and stir vigorously until
you have a thick batter and put in a warm place to 
rise. When light and puffy stir as thick as pos-
sible with a spoon, then mix with the hands until
kneadable, cut off in loaves of a size to half fill
your baking tins, knead thoroughly, shape to, and
put in your tins and again put in a warm place to 
rise. When the loaves have doubled in size put
in a moderately heated oven and bake from one-
half to three-quarters of an hour according to the
size of the loaves, and you will have bread as
moist, spongy and eatable as fermented bread can
be. Bread of unbolted flour can be made in the
same way, but is better stirred to a stiff batter
and baked in deep dishes instead of being kneaded
and baked in shallow tins. Milk rising and salt
rising bread are the same with the exception that
one half a teacup of new milk is added to the ris-
ing for the former and is preferable to all water.
As you value good bread and good health, never
put ginger, saleratus, or any of the other useless
things that some people deem necessary, in your
sponge or rising.


