		 HOME PUBLICATIONS.
     I also advise that the “Juvenile Instruc-
tor” be circulated extensively among our chil-
dren. It is a work calculated to inform
their minds on the principles of the gospel;
from its pages they may also gain a know-
ledge of the history of the Church, as well
as a variety of other useful and entertain-
ing information. It is a very useful publi-
cation, and the benefits it is capable of con-
ferring upon our young people are numer-
ous and great. While speaking on this sub-
ject I will refer to other papers published by
our brethren in these valleys—The “Deseret
News,”' the “Herald,” “Junction,” “Provo
Times,” and the “Beaver and St George En-
terprises,” all of which contain a good deal of
information about our home affairs specially,
and of events in the world generally. I hope
that, in all the stakes of Zion, the people will
manifest a spirit and determination to sup-
port papers which are published for their
benefit. The “Deseret News,” daily, semi-
weekly, and weekly, besides the general
news of the world, also contains many of
the sermons of President Young and others
of the church authorities, and it should be
widely circulated in all the settlements of
the Saints. The mails now run to all parts
of the Territory, and though we can not
boast a great deal about the punctuality of
some of them, yet in nearly every settle-
ment a mail comes along once in awhile
bringing the “Deseret News,” and a man is
pretty safe on the main thoroughfares, in
taking the Weekly, and in many localities
the Semi-weekly, or Daily may be ventured
upon.
	SUSTAINING THE EXPONENT.
We must do something more in relation
to printing. The Woman’s Relief Society
are publishing a paper called the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT, which is a very ably edited
sheet, and one containing a great deal of in-
formation. I am surprised that all the gen-
tlemen in the Territory do not take it. I
invite all the elders, bishops, and presiding
officers in the stakes of Zion, on their re-
turn home, setting the example themselves,
to solicit all their brethren, and especially
the sisters, to become subscribers of this
little sheet, for I am sure that they will be
interested in the instruction and informa-
tion it contains. I will say that we expect
in a short time, through the patronage of
the brethren and sisters, that the ladies will
be able to enlarge this paper, and to extend
its influence far and wide.
		POWER OF THE LADIES.
   It has been my privilege to make visits
to, and to become acquainted with the Ladies’
Relief Societies in many of the settlements
in the Territory, and I am convinced that
great good results from the labors of these
organizations; and I feel certain that unless
the ladies take hold of any movement de-
signed to forward the work of the Lord in
the last days, its progress will be tardy. In
all parts of the world, when nations are at
war, unless the women take an interest in
the matter, the war goes on very heavily.
I am of the opinion that in the next war be-
tween France and Germany, the French will
get the best of it. Not but what I have a
great opinion of German skill, energy and
pluck, but I am satisfied, from traveling
and personal observation, that the women
of France are thoroughly aroused, and that
in the next war between those two nations,
the Prussians will have to fight the women
of France, and then France will be likely
to win.
	ADVICE TO RELIEF SOCIETIES.
     I say to our sisters of the Relief Societies,
be encouraged, meet together and discuss
all questions that are calculated to interest
or benefit the community, as you have the
ability; and as no man can be elected to
office in this Territory without the vote of
the ladies, make yourselves thoroughly ac-
quainted not only with the politics of the
country, but with every principle of local
government that may be advanced, and
then, whatever is calculated to benefit the
people in their private or domestic circles,
you will be enabled to vote intelligently
and to carry it through without difficulty.
	    WOMEN'S INFLUENCE. 
    We spend a great deal of our money in
following vain fashions, and in purchasing a
great many articles that are useless. These 
societies, if they choose, can make their
own fashions, and they can make them ac-
cording to wisdom, and so as to promote
health; a great many of the fashions of the
world are calculated to destroy health. A
hundred questions connected with domestic 
economy—housekeeping, cooking, making
bread and kindred subjects, that are of im-
portance to the stomach, health and longev-
ity of every man and woman in the Terri-
tory may be properly discussed in these Re-
lief Societies, and useful information dis-
seminated. A great many of the women
in these valleys have not had good oppor-
tunities to become acquainted with the art
of cooking, and that is an art which has
something to do with every person’s hap-
piness. The example of the ladies, and the
influence which they exercise, have a ten-
dency, above all things else, to maintain,
create, and preserve good morals. Men are
apt to behave themselves in the society of
women, and if women act wisely and pru-
dently in guiding and controlling the course
and conduct of each other, they will be able,
to a great extent, to guide, control, and regu-
late the morals and conduct of men. We
think, however, that the policy of the
Christian world, in throwing the responsi-
bility, so far as morality is concerned, en-
tirely upon the heads of women, is a blun-
der; the men should be held responsible for
their own acts, and when they are guilty
of that which is corrupt, low, or degrading,
they should be looked upon as transgressors
and cast aside until, by repentance and up-
rightness, they prove that they are worthy
of confidence. 			
   EXERCISING THE ELCTIVE FRANCHISE.
   Never let an election go by, or any other
occasion in which it is important for us to
take a part, without paying attention to it.
This advice is for the ladies as well as for
the gentlemen, for every lady of twcnty-
one years of age, who is a citizen of the
United States, or whose husband or father
is a citizen of the United States, has a right,
under the laws of Utah, to vote; and no one
need hope to hold office in Utah if the ladies
say no.


"How shall we settle the labor question?"
exclaimed a member of the Georgia Legis-
lature, in the midst of his speech. "By all
going to work, and earning your living hon-
stly!" thundered an irreverent spectator
in the gallery.


