HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
First Element of a Home.—I never saw a gar-
ment too fine for man or maid; there never was a
chair too good for a cobbler or cooper to sit in;
never a house too fine to shelter the human head.
These elements about us, the gorgeous sky, the im-
perial sun, are not too good for the human race.
Elegance fits man. But do we not value these tools
of house-keeping a little more than they are worth,
and sometimes mortgage home for the mahogany
we can bring into it? I would rather eat my din-
ner off the head of a barrel, or dress after the fash-
ion of John the Baptist in the wilderness, or sit on
a block all my life, than consume all myself before
I get home, and take so much pains with the out-
side that the inside was as hollow as an empty nut.
Beauty is a great thing, but beauty of garments,
house and furniture is a very tawdry ornament com-
pared with domestic love. All the elegance in the
world will not make a home, and I would give
more for a spoonful of hearty love than for whole
shiploads of furniture, and all the upholsterers of
the world could gather together.—“Theodore Par-
ker.”
	Why a Child loves Sugar.—The craving of chil-
dren for sweets is well known to be one of the
most imperious of their appetites. It has refer-
ence probably to that careless activity which espe-
cially characterizes the age of childhood. It is
known that sugar renders easier and more perfect
the digestion of the albuminous food upon which
their growth depends. In respect to these offices
it is therefore nearly essential to their well-being.
And yet how strong, for generations, has been the
prejudice against sugar! Under what difficulties,
and in the face of what discouragements and pro-
tests, have our children obtained the luxury!
	Good Biscuit.—One quart of flour, one table-
spoonful baking powder, butter the size of a wal-
nut; use water; don’t mix stiff; bake quick.
	To soften Hard Water.—You can soften the wa-
ter by adding carbonate of soda—washing soda—as
long as a whitish precipitate is formed. Let it
settle and draw off the clear water above. Some-
times simple boiling will render the water after set-
tling fit for washing. 
	Short Cake.—Rub together one quart of flour,
one teaspoonful of salt, and one cup of butter, lard
or beef dripping. Make into a paste with either
sour, or buttermilk, and add half a tablespoonful of
salaratus dissolved in a little warm water. Make
into a soft dough and bake.
	To Get Rid of Large Ants.—I went out in the
garden and procured a handful of green sage leaves;
sprinkled them in and around my sugar box and in
less than 24 hours they had all left; they are no
trouble at all now; it is a sure way to get rid of
large ants. Try it.—A. L. S.


﻿French Rarebit.—Take three ounces of cheese,
cut it in small square pieces, and set it to fry with
a little piece of butter. When your cheese begins
to melt, have three eggs beaten up with salt and
pepper. Pour them upon your cheese. Stir and
roll it all into a sort of puff and take it off. The
whole operation should not take more than one or
two minutes.
   Elastic Varnish.—As an excellent and easily
manufactured varnish for wicker-work, Mr. F.
Rhien recommends the following composition:—One
part of good linseed oil is boiled down to a sirupy
consistency, and mixed with twenty parts of copal.
This mass is then diluted with oil of turpentine to
the proper thickness. The varnish dries easily,
and remains elastic, so as not to crack by the bend-
ing of the basket.


