HOME AFFAIRS.

	BY PRIVATE communication from Mrs. M. A.
Maughan of Logan Cache Co., dated May 25th,
we are informed that scarlet fever and whoop-
ing cough are prevalent among the children of
that city and adjacent settlements. Weather
extremely warm, trees in full bloom.
	FROM THE "Utah Pomologist," of St. George,
we learn that grain and vegetables are putting
on their best appearance in that Southern coun-
try, and that they have been planted in great-
er breadth this season than in any other year.
Light frosts have injured the fruit a little,
particularly the apricots in some localities.
	THIS DAY, June 1st, we may mark as a mem-
orable one. Besides being the seventy-third an-
niversary of the birth-day of President Brigham
Young, it has been set apart for the citizens of
Salt Lake and the soldiery of Camp Douglas to
celebrate as "Decoration Day," and is also the
second anniversary of the birthday of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	BRANCHES OF the United Order are being
organized in the different wards of this city,
and in other settlements throughout the Terri-
tory. Apparently, the work does not progress


rapidly enough for the satisfaction of some.
Let such be patient, and remember that the
world was not made in one day, and that all
large bodies necessarily move slowly. It should
be realized by all who are interested, that but
little is likely to be accomplished in this, the
first year of general co-operative movements.
and none should be discouraged because of not
being called immediately into action. Let
each one be in readiness, and gradually the
best abilities of all will be brought to light and
put to use.
	THE BEAR Lake Monster, of which much
has been heard and written, is again described;
this time by Bishop William Budge, of Paris
Oneida County, Idaho, who saw the creature
at not more than thirty-five yards distance.
He says "Its face and part of its head were
distinctly seen, covered with fur, or short hair
of a light snuff color. The face of the animal
was apparently flat, very wide between the
eyes and tapering to the nose, with very full,
large eyes and prominent ears, resembling
those of a horse, but scarcely as long. The
whole face, in shape, was like that of a fox,
but so large that the space between the eyes
equaled that of the distance between the eyes
of a common cow. It did not look ferocious,
and was in no hurry to go, but kept moving
slowly, then diving again, came up and moved
off into the Lake as fast as a man could walk."
By giving attention to the above description,
the managers of the Salt Lake Theatre may be
enabled to make some corrections in their, not
altogether faultless representation of this sin-
gular animal, in the grand Christmas effection,
“Nymph of the Lurleburg.”


