DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Your appreciated remembrance I noted
last evening, as I sit down after the day’s
toil to read all the good things you carefully
store up like honey in the comb, for the en-
lightenment and elevation of us “poor
downtrodden.”	
    To-day has been a charming one and I
have enjoyed it, lingering among the roses,
breathing fragrance of the lillies and honey-
suckles, admiring the curious markings,
shades and colors of pansies, pinks, verbe-
nas and sweet peas; and even stooping to
cull the scarlet strawberry from out its close,
nestling, verdant foliage. The roses are all
aglow in rarest beauty, of every hue from
pure white to crimson and yellow; and in
such masses—such wonderful abundance,
that the name of “Rose Cottage” might not
be inappropriate for our humble, vine clad
home.	
      The subject of flowers is so apropos to my
feelings, now that we are in the midst of
their beauty and fragrance, that I thought I
would respond to your suggestion, in May
first. So as soon as I had got the children
off to Sunday School and Willie “sleeked
up,” I hunted out my writing things and
began.
    I should have told you at the first that our
Willie is most a year old, has seven teeth,
can say “ma, pa, up,” eat strawberries like
anything, tear a rose to pieces in less than
two minutes and—we DO think—is just the
smartest, prettiest, “blue-eyedest” boy ever
seen.— But—Oh yes! the flowers. Well, a
lady called yesterday to see our garden.
When she came in sight of the roses, lilies,
peonies and such like brilliant flowers, she
stopped, raised her hands and shouted, “O
dear!!,” and then stood in almost mute ad-
miration. Finally she asked, “Why can-
not I, who love a garden and flowers so
much, have them to make my heart glad?”
   Said I,  “My dear woman, you can as well
as not.” 
    “But,” said she, “I don’t know how to
take care of them.” 
    Said I, “A child can learn, and so can
you.”	
    Then she said, “I don’t get time.”
Said I, “It don’t take much time. A wo- 
man may have a nice flower garden for
twenty minutes daily, in the Summer; and
this you can save when “Mrs. Gad-a-bout”
calls. Take her out to see the garden, then
you go to work while she repeats her gos-
sip or errand.
     “Well,” said, she, “I never thought of
that. I might really, but I’ve got no seeds,
and don’t know how to plant them.” 
    Said I, “I have nicest of seeds, some I
raised and some I sent to the States for. I
can let you have all you want.”
     “But,” said she, “How can I pay you?”
     “O never mind” said I, “I'll take it in
butter when the cow comes in; or you may
make Willie his first pants.” (I think of
putting him in pants next month. Don’t
you think he will look delightful? Little
man!)
     “Well,” said she, “thank you, I’ll do it.
Or I’ll send Betsy up some day when you	
have a big washing.”
      “All right,” said I. 
      “But I don’t know' what sort of seeds I
want,” said she. 
    I’ll tell you what kind I like best,” said I,
“and which are easiest raised.”
    "And you'll tell me how to plant them," 
said she. 
	"Certainly," said I, "and come down and


see them, and show you how to take care of
them."
	And so we walked on to see the flowers.
	"What is this big bunch of tall buds and
leaves, flowers opening red, white and
pink?" enquired my visitor.
	"Peonies," said I. "You must get a root
in fall or spring, and if you take care of it, in
two or three years it will be as nice as this.
And that tall spike of curious shaped flowers
is the snap-dragon or antirrhinum—blossoms
the second year and keeps on for years—is
easily raised and very showy. So is the
canterbury belle over there, just now about
to bloom. Those gay flowers are sweet peas,
which I planted early in the fall; and you
see they bloom so early and look deliciously
fresh and lovely."
	"Well," asked my apreciative visitor,
after admiring all the flowers in bloom,
"what are all these little plants along the
borders?"
	"These," I answered, "are the sorts of 
posies I shall select you seeds of. These
are balsams, that mass is phlox, those double
zinnias and chrysanthemums, this is a bed
of China pinks and these my corner poppies.
All these are easily grown and will make a 
charming display for annuals."
	So we went and selected the seeds, add-
ing to those above named, dwarf convolvu-
lus, nasturtian, verbenas, scarlet cypress,
portulacca, &c.
	"Now," said she, "tell me how to plant
them." 
	Said I, "You must scald the cypress seed,
the portulacca you must not cover more
than a quarter of an inch deep, and the
poppy about the same. The others may be
covered half an inch deep. Keep the
ground damp until the plants are up. It
should first be well spaded and pulverized;
then spread over it about three inches thick-
ness of old, well rotted, fine manure and spade
again. Then if the ground is clayey ground,
put on about three inches of sand and spade 
all up again."
	"O dear that'll make one's back ache,"
observed my visitor.
	"But you must be a little cute," said I,
"and when you present your husband or
son with a new shirt of pair of socks or
pants, then put in for your flower garden. 
Or if they like custard pie or anything else,
particularly, fix it up, whatever the men
folks like best, and then intercede for the
spading and preparation of your flower gar-
den. And it will be done if you manage
right, as a woman. Then, I continued,
make little drills, sow your seeds and cover
the ground with an old piece of carpet until
the plants begin to come up. Then remove
it and keep them properly moist until
they shade the ground. If too thick, trans-
plant some of them to other places where
you wish flowers to grow."
	"Well," said she, "there's work in this,
and in fact I never had the knack of getting
things I didn't work for, as some people can.
However, I like your directions and will go
and follow them." And she went off smil-
ing.
	Now any body may do as well as my lady
caller, and have flowers plenty. Don't you
think so? I'm sure I took much pleasure in 
telling her all I could to help her; and I'd
tell and help a hundred others with the same
pleasure. So, if any of your readers should
want farther advice, now or at any time,
just let them ask and Flora will respond,
and—Hark! Willie is waking, dear little
one!						FLORA.
	St. George, May 10th 1874.


