LETTER.
	In connection with other interesting cor-
respondence, the following letter was read
before the late anniversary meeting of the
California Woman's Suffrage Association.
	Mrs. Mary J. Collins—Dear Lady:—
Through the politeness of Mr. C. W. Tap-
pan, we have perused the letter of the 4th
inst. from you to his address, in which an


invitation is extended to Woman Suffragists
of Salt Lake to either attend your annual
meeting or address a letter for the occasion;
for which please accept our thanks.
	The receipt of the note being at a late
hour (yesterday evening), affording too little
time consistent for attendance at your Con-
vention, we are happy to address you, al-
though hastily.
	Realizing as we do, that the women of
Utah are highly privileged, we are not in-
different to the interests of our sisters
abroad, and would be most happy in assist-
ing them in their wise and laudable efforts.
For their encouragement we can truly say
that, with us, so far, the franchise is a suc-
cess—refuting many of the objections
against it by its opponents.
	It is presumable that our then acting Gov-
ernor, when signing the bill conferring Wo-
man Suffrage in Utah, felt a little tremulous
—it certainly was a bold step on almost un-
trodden ground, as we were preceded by
neither State nor Territory for example, ex-
cept Wyoming; but, having seen the work-
ing of our ballots, he pronounces it, as well
he may, "the proudest act of his life." The
unaccountable ignorance of people abroad
concerning the state of society, and espe-
cially the social position of woman in Utah,
augmented the risk of the Governor in jeop-
ardising his reputation as a Government of-
ficer in this responsible and magnanimous
act.
	In all ages of the world, the introduction
of beneficial principles and practices has to
combat established customs, usages, preju-
dices, and, above all, the ignorance of man-
kind; and in this respect, the generations
do not seem to have so very much improved
since the time of Christ and His apostles,
or since the days of Socrates and Gallileo,
although the mode of warring opposition is
somewhat modified.
	With intense interest we have watched
the movements of the ladies of California
and elsewhere in our behalf, and have here-
tofore publicly acknowledged our apprecia-
tion of their noble, energetic efforts, and
now feel constrained to say that, in oppos-
ing the passage of those unjust and igno-
minious bills which disgrace the American
Congress, you have not only aided us by
your influence, but have done honor to the
cause which you bravely and earnestly ad-
vocate.
	With many kind wishes for your success
in every laudable enterprise, we are your
fellow laborers for the promotion of good,
			Miss E. R. Snow,
			Mrs. L. Greene Richards,
			Mrs. S. M. Kimball,
			Mrs. M. I. Horne.
	Salt Lake City, April 26th, 1874.


THE BRIDGE across the Mississippi river
was crossed by the first train of cars on the
ninth instant. The engineers were greatly
pleased with the solidity of the bridge.
	AT A late election in Portland Oregon,
through the efforts of the women crusaders,
large casks of ice-water were placed at the
various polling places for the benefit of
thirsty voters. There is good sense in all
such practical forms of crusading.
	The Michigan University College paper is con-
ducted by masculine students, we believe, and they
make very complimentary allusions to their femin-
ine competitors; “They pertinaciously keep their
health and strength in a way that is aggravating
and they persist in evincing an ability for close and
continued mental labor which, to the ordinary esti-
mator of woman's brain power, seems like pure
willfulness.”


