[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | April | Issue: 19 | Title: THE SILK INDUSTRY | Author: Unknown]

THE SILK INDUSTRY

	THE coming World’s Fair has awakened
serious thought among people in regard to
home manufactures and industry; local and
general. In Utah the spirit of these in-
fluences is at work, and we trust it may
prove beneficial to the people generally,
and the entire Territory.
	The silk industry which has been lan-
guishing for years past, for lack of  means
and enthusiasm on the subject, is coming
forward now, and it does seem as if a
creditable enterprise of this kind and one
that would be lucrative too ought to grow
out of it.
	For many years the women of our
Church, and especially of the Relief Society
lead out in this direction, and hundreds and
thousands of milberry trees were planted, and
cocoons raised and some considerable silk
reeled and many small articles made, be-
sides dress goods, shawls etc.  In fact the
history of sericulture from the first step in
this direction would be an interesting sub-
ject just now.
	In an editorial in the Deseret News pub-
lished a few days ago some facts were given
that we trust the people and especially the
women of the Territory will take note
of; There was also an editorial article in
the EXPONENT of December 15, ult, giving
some data, and interesting facts, which those
interested in the production of silk should
certainly read for their own benefit; as
sericulture is an occupation particularly
adapted to women and children. Days
gone by the difficulty was, no market for
cocoons and no machinery suitable for work-
ing the native silk. The price paid by the
Eastern markets for cocoons was not enough
to pay the people for their work and the
actual expense; and many who had been
quite energetic in their efforts lost heart and
turned their efforts in other directions.
	Every one who was acquainted with
President Brigham Young knows how very
anxious he was to have the silk industry
prosper. He sent to France in 1856 for the
best quality of Mulberry seed, and planted
an area of land with the mulberry which
was known until recently as the Mulberry
Farm.
	Now that Congress has made a liberal
appropriation of money to promote the silk
enterprise and make an exhibit, and placed
it at the disposal or under the direction of
Mrs. Palmer President of the Board of
Lady Managers of the Columbian Exposi-
tion, Mrs. Salisbury one of the Vice
Presidents associated with Mrs. Palmer and

[Column 2]
also the commissioner for Utah appreciat-
ing the efforts made here in the silk indus-
try, interceded for an apportionment for
Utah out of the fund Congress had pro-
vided, and succeeded in getting something
liberal to assist in making a handsome
exhibit. As soon as she felt comparatively
sure of what could be done, she appointed a
committee to attend to the collecting of ex-
hibits. This committee was Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, President, Mrs. E. B. Wells Vice
President, Mrs. C. E. Allen, and Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young and Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary. All the cocoons, raw or spun
silk, and all manufactured articles that can
be obtained are wanted to make this dis-
play in the Woman’s Building. It is ex-
pected that the whole process of the work
from the silk worms upward to the spinning
and weaving will be shown by Utah
women; it is also desirable to get the prim-
tive wheels, reels, and hand looms and so on
that have been used in this sort of work
and have them exhibited. All articles that
can be purchased or borrowed should be
sent to the Headquarters of the committee
in the Constitution Building, Rooms 227
and 228, in the care of the Secretary, Mrs.
Caine. The cocoons that are for sale must
be examined by an expert, and a fair cash
price will be paid for them. Other articles of
course willbe paid for at a reasonable price.
The money appropriated will be handled
judiciously, but it is the desire of the com-
mittee to arouse an interest in this valu-
able home production and no pains will be
spared to accomplish this object.
	The sisters in various parts of the Terri-
tory who have been so discouraged will now
have an opportunity to dispose of their
cocoons and be stimulated to new efforts in
this laudable undertaking.
	It is indeed the woman’s age for in all
branches of work where women can show
skill or ingenuity, or knowledge of any
employment, it is called into active exer-
cises because of the advantages afforded by
the World’s Fair.


[Column 1]
