[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | April | Issue: 19 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

    OUR readers and patrons will see that we
have made a change in the location of  the
office by the Editors and Publishers  stand-
ing  notice  in  our columns. The  house
where  we  were previously  located  was a
more desirable  locality in every respect ex-
cept its outside appearance, but one change
involves  another—arid that  that  property   is
too valuable for the size of the house, had
it even   been a good   and  substantial  one.
The Constitution  Building is  well   known
to the people  and we  feel  that  the  sisters
and ladies  generally   will  not  have far  to
climb, and Rooms (227 and 228) being  in
the second story  and an elevator running
all day and until 12 o’clock at night.    The
distance  from the   Printing  office  is  the
greatest  hardship,  involving  as it does so
much  going  back  and  forth, however we
must make the best of it, and if the only pros-
perity would come through the medium of
more  numerous  subscribers,  it   would not
be so difficult to make everything easier and
there  would  be a  very  material difference
in many ways for the better. 
     THERE are  quite a number of ladies go-
ing from Utah to attend the Woman’s Con-
gress of Representative women in Chicago,
which opens May 15th and lasts one whole
week, and   the  National   Woman’s  Relief

[Column 2]
Society and Young Ladies National Mutual
Improvement  Association will each  hold a
meeting in Department  Hall  No.  VII.
(7) in the Art Institute on the 19th of May,
when the entire  program  will be filled by
members of these respective organizations,
N. W. R. S. morning session and Y. L. N.
M. I. A. evening. The full  program of
exercises will  be given in the next issue af
the paper.
	THE    Headquarters  of   the   National
Woman’s  Relief   Society will  hereafter be
in    this  office,    President,   Zina   D.   H.
Young   will be  here at some  hours in the
day  during  the  week,  up   to the   time of
leaving for  Chicago   which  will  probably
be the 10th of  May.
	THE UTAH ROOM:—Fine  needle  work is
a most beautiful art, and how  forcibly  this
thought is brought to mind while gazing at
the many articles the  women of  Utah have
been preparing for their room  in  the Utah
building at Chicago.    It would take a great
many pages to describe   them  all   for there
are so many lunch cloths, doilies, and scarfs
in  exquisite  drawn   work,   there   are so
many pieces of rich and  rare embroidery,
there are such wonderful   combinations of
historic silks into beautiful spreads, that the
women of  Utah are  surprising  themselves
by their perfection in the industrial arts.
    One can scarcely imagine  anything more
exquisite than the pale cream  silk  curtains
embroidered in sego lilies, under  which all
who  visit the Woman’s Building will  pass,
and imagine  the  surprise,   when told  that
they are made of  Utah silk.   Then in  the
Utah  building   will   hang   most  elegant
portiers  made  of Utah  broad-cloth,  lined
with  Utah  silk  and  most  artistically and
elaborately embroidered;  the Utah flower—
the sego  lily, again  the design.    Passing
under the curtains—a gift from the ladies
of  Salt  Lake  Co.—one may  rest on the
beautiful chairs and sofa that the Davis Co.
ladies gave this  pretty room.   This furni-
ture is most unique,  upholstered in Utah
silk of sage green color and beautifully em-
broidered, the frame is of Utah  wood with
a white and gold finish and  here again the
sego lily plays  the prominent  part in  the
decoration.   Reclining in these luxurious
chairs one may note the many other hand-
some furnishings of the room on the floors
lie fine rugs,  made  from  the  skins of “the
mountain lion, a gift from the  Summit Co.
ladies.   From the mantle may be heard the
regular ticking of the clock, elegantly en-
cased in Utah onyx and among the beautiful
drapings and furnishings we must  not  fail
to   note  the  handsome  silk flag, and  the
wonderful inlaid  table  all gifts from Utah
Co.  It seems  almost  a  pity  to  begin  to
mention or describe individual pieces among
so many rare and costly things, for  beauti-
ful pictures adorn  the  walls  and  rest  on
easels, and fine carved  work,  dainty drap-
ing, luxurious cushions, delicate  decorated
china and hundreds of artistic,  unique and
handsome articles  tend to  make  the  room
elegant  and  interesting,  but  let  us  not
hastily pass the books and papers Utah wo-
men  have  contributed  towards  towards  the  em-
bellishment of this  room for  here we may
find their written thoughts  the minds re-
flection.   Among  these  lies the  beautiful
volume,Songs and Flowers of the Wasatch,
choice selections  from  the women poets of
Utah,  appropriately  approprately  illustrated  in  water
colors.   Certainly  Utah  Women will have
just cause for pride as they view the display


of their talent and handwork in this
delightful room.
	The time approaches rapidly and before
many days hundreds of Utah people will be
wending their way to Chicago, among them
many women who have been, toiling night
and day that Utah’s display might be worthy
of her people. May their journey be all
that they desire pleasant, interesting, in-
structive, and enjoyable in the extreme.
