INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN Member of General Board Inez Knight Allen Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, well-known to a host of friends in Relief Society circles, was called to the General Board. Of that organization, August 17, 1927. She is a woman of outstanding ability and personal charm, particularly gifted as a leader. She was born on a ranch near Payson and is the eldest daughter of Jesse Knight and Amanda McEwan Knight. The ranch had to adjust itself to practically all the needs of the family, consequently father and mother had to be teachers in addition to all the other. Duties exacted from parents on behalf of their children. Here Inez learned to write and spell and recite the multiplication tables. In the evening the ranch was regaled with visits from farm boys, who joining with the children of the Knight family, held good, lively spelling matches. To this, home training was added two terms spent in the Payson public schools. The Knight family now moved to Provo that the children might have better educational advantages. As a result, Inez entered the preparatory department of the Brigham Young Academy in 1889, remaining until 1896, when her course of study was completed. Her Church work began with the teaching of a Sunday School class in 1896. In 1898, this work was suddenly brought to an end by a call for a mission to England. This was somewhat startling to neighbors, as prior to this time women had been called on missions only in connection with their husbands. Mrs. Allen shares the honor with her sister-in-law, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, of being one of the first unmarried women to be called to do regular work in the mission field. While performing her mission she attended the session of the International Council of Women. While on her mission she assisted in conference work all over England and Wales, did six months work in Bristol, and eighteen months in the London district. While touring the continent she visited France, Germany, Switzerland and Holland. On her return from her mission she acted as matron of the Brigham Young University for two years, a position comparable to that of Dean of Women. At the same time she served her father as secretary, at a period when his business was daily reaching larger and larger proportions. On June 11, 1902, she married R. E. Allen, son of President Thomas L. Allen of Summit stake. Five sons have ' INEZ KINGHT ALLEN 535 been born to their union, the third while his father was serving as a missionary in the British Isles. Three of the sons - have been called on missions. Two are at the present time in the mission field, while the two younger sons are doing college work in the Brigham Young University. Mrs. Allen's Relief Society work began in the office of secretary, a position which she held from 1904 to 1905. At the same time she taught the first parents class organized in the first ward of Provo, the ward in which she has lived since her marriage. On January 10, 1906, she was called to be a counselor to Martha B. Keeler, President of the Utah Stake Relief Society. She has always valued her connection with Mrs. Keeler, for with her. She became initiated into Relief Society work, During this period Mrs. Allen acted as chairman of a committee of the Utah Stake Board, to whom was committed the work of preparing and publishing a five year outline of study, a pamphlet which was used throughout Utah stake and in a number of other stakes, by permission of the General Board. This was before the General Board published outlines of study. Utah Stake had used some outlines prior to this time, prepared by President Martha B. Keeler. Mrs. Allen's. Work was a continuation in this line. When, in 1918, Mrs. Keeler saw fit to retire as President of the Utah stake, Mrs. Allen was appointed president, a position which she held from February, 1918, to January, 1924. Her term of office was a very progressive term. The method of doing charity work was in a sense revolutionized. A trained social worker was engaged and installed in the office and a community welfare system taking into account modern scientific methods of doing welfare work, was inaugurated. The progress made in this work, which was new and exceedingly difficult, marked Mrs. Allen as far-sighted ana as a leader of tact and insight. She has always been interested in public affairs. She was the chairman of the Utah County Council of Defense and Liberty Loan Committee during the World War. During Mr. Mabey's incumbency as governor, she acted on the State Welfare Board. She was vice-chairman of the County Red Cross, a position which she filled in a notable manner. She is the only woman in Utah county who has received the nomination on a ticket for the State Senate, and in 1924, she served her party as a delegate in the National Convention, which was held in New York City. She has inherited great sympathy and understanding of human kind from her parents and possesses in a very marked degree the philanthropic spirit of her father. She comes to 
 the General Board well prepared for the work, gifted as a speaker, with a breadth of vision and depth of feeling that makes her intelligent in her judgments as a sympathetic and tender in all her contacts. Pies Ida Peterson Beal. The Junior member of the General Board of the Relief, Society is Ida Peterson Beal. In her womanhood she reveals all the charm that her girlhood promised. She was born in Ephraim, Sanpete county, and is the youngest daughter of the late President Canute Peterson and Charlotte Eckstrom Peterson. Her home is described, by one who is well acquainted with it, "as a good, old-fashioned, hospitable home where every stranger found a welcome." Her early education was received in the grade schools at Ephraim and later in the Snow Academy, from which she was graduated. Following her work at Snow Academy she attended the Brigham Young University, where she remained nearly three years. She specialized in music in that institution, and under the able training of Professor A. C. Lund, made rapid advancement. While at the Brigham Young University she had one of the most musical and truly beautiful voices that has ever been heard in the institution. She will be remembered by those who recall her work there as one of the first of Professor Lund's students to receive general recognition and admiration because of her unusual gift of song. She took the leading role in the first opera staged by the music department, playing opposite to Oscar A. Kirkham, Executive Secretary of the Young Men's organization. On her return home she taught two years in the grade schools of Ephraim, later marrying T. A. Beal, son of President Henry Beal, who was then serving on the faculty of the Snow Academy. This ambitious young couple continued their work first in the University of Utah and later at Columbia University, New York City, Three years were spent in the eastern metropolis, where Mrs. Beal was enrolled for special work. On her return home she was called to the presidency of the stake Primary Association, a position which she undoubtedly filled with delight to the children, as she is just the type 'of person to whom children are instinctively drawn. ~But her time was not solely taken up by the Primary Association, for Member of General Board MRS. IDA PETERSON BEAL 
 the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Relief Society each claimed a share. In 1913, her husband accepted a professorship at the University of Utah, which established her in Salt Lake City. Since her residence in Salt Lake City she has served both the Y. L. M. I. A. And the Relief Society in an official capacity. About four years ago she was called to be a member of the Liberty stake Relief Society Board. A year, covering part of 1925 and part of 1926, was spent in Europe, where she took advantage of opportunities offered in the cities of Heidelberg and Berlin?cities noted for their cultural advantages. While abroad she came in contact with different auxiliary organizations of the Church, to whom she bore her testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work. On August 17, 1927, she was called to be a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She is active in civic Organizations as well as Church organizations. At present she is the secretary and treasurer of the Woman's National Republican Federation, also president of the Faculty Women of the University of Utah. All her work has been done joyously, and all who have come in contact with her have felt radiating from her a spirit of delight that characterizes only those who love deeply and ? sincerely the work they are doing. Genevieve Thornton The Magazine is particularly gratified to present to its readers a sketch of the life of Miss Genevieve Thornton, who has been employed to supervise the case work of the Family Welfare Department of the Latter-day Saints Relief Society at Relief Society Headquarters. Miss Thornton comes to her new position especially -well prepared for her work. From her childhood she has been exceedingly ambitious. During one year of her high school work it was not possible for her to attend school, so she did her studying at home and passed an examination at the end of the school year that was of very high grade. She did her first college work in the Branch Agricultural College in Cedar City, afterwards completing her college course at the University of Utah. In the college at Cedar City she indicated her interest in social work by upholding the affirmative GENEVIEVE THORNTON 539 in a college debate on the question of a legal minimum wage for women in industry. While attending the University of. Utah she did field work for the Family Welfare Department of the Relief Society by special arrangement, and was employed by this organization as social worker for three years following her graduation. Miss Thornton was born in southern Utah, at Pinto, Washington county. She is the daughter of Edmund T. And Jennie Sargent Thornton. Her paternal grandfather was Amos Thornton and her maternal great-grandfather was William Snow. The names of these two men are household names in southern Utah. They were called to go to that part of the country and settle, and the achievements of their sons and daughters are yearly proclaiming the worth of their forbears. The family lived at Pinto and New Castle, a town settled by Pinto people, until a year ago, when they made Delta their home. Miss Thornton left Utah to enter the graduate school of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago, from which institution she took her Masters degree in 1926. Miss Thornton's thesis made a study of public school provision for deaf, blind and crippled children in Chicago, the first city in the United States to make adequate educational provision for such children. This study included a first hand study of the special schools for crippled, the special centers for deaf and hard of hearing children, and the Braille and sight-saving classes for blind and partially sighted children. After taking her masters degree she was employed as social worker with the United Charities of Chicago, a family welfare organization which cared for nearly 12,000 families during the year 1926. Concerning this experience, one of the daily papers says: "Due to the foreign born and negro element in the population of Chicago and the fact that Chicago is a great industrial center, social work there offers a most varied experience." After leaving the employ of the United Charities, July 1, 1927, Miss Thornton spent three weeks visiting social service organizations, including the large church agencies in the larger cities in the East. One interesting feature in relation to Miss Thornton's work is the fact that last spring when Judge Victor P. Arnold of the Chicago Juvenile Court ordered a competitive examination for probation officers, Miss Thornton was one of a group of nearly 200 who took this examination. The citizens' examining committee in its report placed her tenth on the list of eligible officers. Through the summer of 1926, Miss Thornton was a res- MISS GENEVIEVE THORNTON, M. A. Supervisor of Case Work in Family Welfare Department, Relief Society GENEVIEVE THORNTON 541 ident at Hull House, a historical social settlement founded by Jane Addams in 1889, in the midst of large foreign colonies in Chicago. "In the beginning of the social settlement work at Hull House, northern Europeans filled in the surrounding space. Then the population shifted and southern and eastern Europeans came in. The newest comer of all is the Mexican. Yet, through the shifting scenes, Hull House has not ceased in its activities, but has provided an ever increasing number of social opportunities for the people of the neighborhood. Everybody who has visited Hull House remembers, the theater in which Hull House players, who are the neighborhood people, are the actors. A nursery for the children of working mothers and a dental clinic are among the features of this settlement." Miss Thornton has also had experience in the Chicago social settlement, close up to the stockyards where one is reminded with every breeze that blows that she is in contact with one of the not very agreeable features of our modern industrial life.. Recently at the organization of the Women's International League For Peace, in Salt Lake City, Mrs. J. A. Hogle was chosen temporary chairman and Miss Genevieve Thornton temporary secretary. Miss Thornton is a woman of marked refinement and of very gentle manners. She is the first person from New Castle, her home community, to take a Master's Degree, and one of very few to take a Bachelor's Degree. She is the most highly trained supervisor that the Welfare Department has as yet had on its staff. We congratulate Miss Thornton on her achievements and we also congratulate the Welfare Department of the Relief Society on the appointment of one so well fitted to carry on this very important branch of its work. Beautiful Logan Canyon By Mrs. George O. Rich O beautiful Logan Canyon, The brilliant red of the maple, Decked out in Fall array; The quaking asp turning gold, With all your bright, gay colors, We stand in admiration, You seem to have full sway. At what nature doth unfold. The big, pine trees on the mountain, Remain in their dress of green. As lovely a picture to gaze upon As artist has ever seen. Woman Customs-Head Pleads Right Living Taken from the Christian Science Monitor, Boston, July 26, 1927. ln HANDLING Bic Task IN HAWAIIAN ISLANDS Honolulu, T. H.?Mrs. Jeanette Hyde has now filled the post of Collector of Customs, in the Hawaiian Islands, for more than two years. As the only woman occupying so responsible an office in a collection outpost district, under the Treasury Department, the record of her service holds much of interest, especially when the fact is considered that the duties handled by her office average more than $1,750,000 annually. She came here from Utah by virtue of appointment by the President, confirmed by the Senate, and assumed her duties on April 21, 1925. She is at her office in the Federal Building, of which, by virtue of her position, she is custodian, usually at 7:30 o'clock, but not later than 8 in the morning. She remains usually until at least 4:30, and frequently until 5:40 and 6 o'clock, except when her duties call her to the wharves and docks or aboard some newly arrived vessel. WHAT TO OVERCOME Shortly after entering upon her work as a collector, Mrs. Hyde began a systematic effort to improve the customs service. She found that the employees were dissatisfied with their pay. "All wanted increases in compensation, whether it was earned or whether they were capable of earning it," she says. "It seemed to be the main thought that they must have better wages, without stopping to consider that I had first to adjust my pay roll to suit the budget which had been allotted for this port." Mrs. Hyde found that at the docks there was one set of working hours, the business houses had another, and the customs force a still different one. After several conferences with business men the hour of 7 in the morning was agreed upon as the daily starting time. She continues her narrative: "The next great problem was that of limiting the issuance of passes to board incoming vessels, to meet the regulations prescribed by the department. I think this called forth the most vicious attacks and most violent abuse that anyone has ever been called upon to endure. The very method of elimination of passes has since proved so satisfactory that the PLEADS RIGHT LIVING 543 steamship companies themselves are more exacting as to how many and to whom passes are issued, showing that the Government's regulations have proved successful." Explains Her Dry DUTIES Prior to the orders issued by Mrs. Hyde, communication between ship and shore was under little restraint. In consequence there were numerous ways by which narcotics, liquor and other contraband could be smuggled in. Mrs. Hyde is emphatic in her views on this phase of her duties. "As to prohibition," she says, "many people here are laboring under a misconstrued idea with regard to the functioning of the Collector of Customs. In the matter of enforcing prohibition, the only official recognition the Collector of Customs has is the seizure of foreign contraband coming ashore or being brought into the Territory. Local prohibition is enforced entirely through the Prohibition Unit, over which the Collector has no jurisdiction and no official concern; but so far as foreign imports are concerned it is entirely within the Collector's province to seize all foreign liquors and as far as possible to prevent their being brought into the Territory. This act has been consistently enforced. "But more serious than the amount of liquor brought in is that of opium, morphine, cocaine an other narcotics. It requires constant and vigilant perseverance on the part of the customs force to prevent large quantities being brought ashore. "T think one of the greatest handicaps, and one that gives one in an official position great concern, is the finding of men and women of the higher strata of life and those who have sworn to uphold and obey the law in their official positions disregarding the law itself. CrosE Watch Kept "If people in executive positions are exacting of themselves to observe regulations and will require those who work with them to do the same, it builds up the morale and confidence that only can be secured by right living and right doing. Your lives are above reproach, and no matter what the criticism from people or press, you have the confidence of men and women who know you as to the truth of statements made to the contrary.. "This is an honest administrative policy which cannot fail if adhered to. This has been the standard which I have tried to establish with myself, and I have asked of those who work with me to observe, as nearly as possible, the regulations which they are asked to enforce upon other people." After having rearranged working hours, Mrs. Hyde 
 instituted a system of promotions among the men and women of the customs force based upon merit. Then, as some of the employees resigned from the service, she utilized the pay which had been given them to increase the pay of those remaining, the latter agreeing to give more efficient service. The increases in pay thus given range from $100 to $150 a year. And yet the budget of expenses of the collector's office has not been increased or exceeded. Mrs. Hyde also found that employees receiving only $1,200 to $1,500 a year, with families of five and six children to support, were wearing $65 suits and $17 hats. "It was unreasonable in the extreme," she says. "So I obtained bids and prices on suits and caps. Then I turned the whole question over to the men themselves, and let them decide what they wanted to wear. They finally chose a lightweight blue serge uniform suited to this climate and in accordance with custom regulations, which, with an extra pair of trousers cost them only $59; also caps costing only $5? a total saving of $18 per man. PERSONNEL IMPROVED "T asked each man to equip himself with a new suit and cap, as those they had were much worn, and to appear in them when on the docks while on duty. They are privileged, however, to wear their old clothing while discharging cargoes. "With shoes polished, trousers neatly pressed, dark ties and light shirts, the force now presents the appearance of real Government employees. The department supplied me with new badges and insignias for the caps, adding to their natty apparel. "I ask the men to work with me and not for me. I have not been obliged to dismiss any member of the force, although I have made transfers to better the service. Efficiency records are kept of each employee, so that when application is made for a promotion, our office records show whether it is deserved. This permits the working out of an honor system. Personal attention to duty and personal interest in work is encouraged by promise of commensurate pecuniary reward." In the period from April 21, 1925, when Mrs. Hyde began her duties, to April 30, 1927, the collections of the Hawaiian customs district amounted to $3,635,256.92. Narcotics valued at $40,000 and liquor valued at $12,000 were seized. The disbursements of the office for the same period amounted to $328,491.69. Put more simply, the cost of collecting $1 from April 22, 1926, to April 30, 1927, was 9 cents. Such is the record of Mrs. Hyde's office from its financial viewpoint. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth  Magazine  Vou. XIV NOVEMBER, 1927 No. 11 EDITORIAL Grandsons of the Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon It is exceedingly gratifying and, under the circumstances perhaps passing strange, that descendants of all three of the witnesses of the Book of Mormon should have visited the Arizona temple since it has been open to the public. It would be gratifying under any circumstances to have these visits, but it is particularly gratifying at a time when the centenary of the delivery of the plates. Of the Book of Mormon to Joseph the Prophet is being commemorated. It is passing strange because the witnesses, in having left the Church would naturally be expected to embitter their posterity when making explanation by way of justification for their act, after having had the visit of an angel. For this reason it is particularly significant that their interests should have led them to make a visit to a temple built by the Latter-day Saints. Oliver Cowdery's grandson came from Cleveland, Ohio. The grandson of David Whitmer very likely came from the place where David Whitmer resided, while Lehi Harris, the grandson of Martin Harris, is a worker on the temple. We are delighted that they have shown so much interest. We trust they feel that they are part and portion of the great latter day work. 
 Countess of Cassillis, President of the Edinburgh Branch of the British National Council of Women Visits Salt Lake Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Recording Secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States, received a letter from Dr. Valeria H. Parker, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, stating that Lady Cassillis would be visiting Salt Lake City, in connection with her husband, in September, as the Earl of Cassillis would be here on behalf of the Royal Arch Masons of Scotland who were holding a triennial convocation of the General Grand Chapter of the Royal Arch Masons of America, in Denver, from September 26 to 30. Lady Cassillis' itinerary permitted a stop-over in Boston, Salt Lake City and Denver, in the United States. As Dr. Parker was very anxious that she should be met officially during her visit she wrote to Mrs. Lyman, asking her to meet Lady Cassillis and extend adequate courtesies in the name of the Council. Before her arrival Mrs. Lyman called together the heads of affiliated organizations in Salt Lake City and plans were made to meet her and welcome her to the city.;, Immediately upon her arrival a committee of Council representatives, consisting of Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, Recording Secretary of the National Council of Women, Mrs. C. Clarence Neslen, representing the city, Mrs. Harry R. Allen, representing the General Federation of Women's Clubs, and Dr. Jane Skofield of the National Association of Medical Women, called at her hotel, and extended greetings on behalf of Dr. Parker and the National Council of Women of the United States. The committee placed at the disposal of Lady Cassillis an automobile, and extended an invitation for sight-seeing drives about the city and vicinity, and for luncheon to be held in her honor. However, due to the previous plans of Lord Cassillis and his party, every moment of the day and a-half spent in Salt Lake City was programmed with sight-seeing trips, organ recital, visit to the "Great Salt Lake, and to Bingham mines, etc. The local representatives of the Council were delighted to have met Lady Cassillis, who is a most charming and interesting woman, and to spend an hour with her, upon her invitation, just prior to her departure, discussing the work of the National Council of Women of the. United States. They were also pleased to place in her car, baskets of Utah fruits and flowers, bearing messages of friendship and greeting from the National Council of Women of the United States. During the hour Lady Cassillis was visiting with Council representatives she stepped into the Board room of the Relief Society, where the General Board was in session. While with the Board she said, "I am delighted to see you; delighted to know that EDITORIAL 547 your special work connects with your religious work. I believe in religion and think that such a connection is valuable." Literary Celebrities Visit Latter-day Saint Temples A book entitled Tramping With a Poet in the Rockies contains one chapter entitled "A Visit to the 'Mormons'." The "Mormons" referred to are those living in and about Cardston, in Alberta, Canada. A good deal of the chapter is devoted to a description of a visit by Stephen Graham, a well-known English writer, and Vachel Lindsay, minstrel poet of America, to the Cardston temple. Now, word reaches us that John Galsworthy, the gifted English playwright recently spent three hours in the Arizona temple. While there he betrayed a good deal of interest, not specially in the temple but in "Mormon" beliefs, and particularly did he ~ show interest in the problem of how we manage to keep our contact with the young people of the Church. M.W. Harold Bell Wright, who has made his home in Arizona for many years, wrote asking the very latest date of the temple's closing and if he may be admitted when he presents himself. We have in this group of literary celebrities, two English, and two American authors. Stephen Graham is noted for his books of travel, John Galsworthy, English, is one of the very best of our modern writers of drama, while Vachel Lindsay is exceedingly well-known among our American poets and Harold Bell Wright is one of our most popular American novelists. Past Days I'm Thankful For By Grace Ingles Frost What have I to be thankful for? I ofttimes ask of self; For values very meagre grow - Without the boon of health. The blessings that I held most dear, Have long since from me fled; The loved ones who made life so bright, Are numbered with the dead. When other hearts grow buoyant With joy at festive time, Remembering, I live again Those days no longer mine. Save shrined within my memory; And as I count them o'er, I cease to ask-my question: Past days, I'm thankful for. THE CANADIAN TEMPLE Dedication of the Canadian Temple By Helen Kimball Orgill We are including in this issue an article on the dedication of the Canadian temple written by Helen Kimball Orgill. The article came too late to be included in the number devoting space to the Canadian temple, and so we are publishing it while the peoples' thoughts and feelings are centered on the dedication of the Arizona temple, believing that it will prove interesting to our readers. During the last few months the Canadian press has had considerable to say concerning the "Mormons" and their latest built temple. Among other comments, one widely circulated prairie paper stated that they were an unusually religious people. These words were indeed verified during dedication week, for a certain Sabbath solemnity seemed to permeate the crowds who had come to see and hear the ceremonies performed at Cardston.. Sunny Alberta was at its best all week. The many hundreds who traveled by automobile were given a real pleasure trip, for the roads were never better and the prairie breezes had forgotten to blow.; Each Church member brought to the temple a card whereon was printed an invitation to attend the dedication and at what particular time. These were signed by the respective bishops. The appearance of snowy, white-clad sisters, stationed at intervals within the building to direct the crowds, seemed to blend beautifully with the artistic simplicity of the temple. _ For one was struck forcibly with the repression of all "DEDICATION OF THE CANADIAN TEMPLE 549 ostentation or show in the mural painting and other decorations. Indeed only a culture-loving people would delight in the effect that was created. The Latter-day Saints, as a whole, left the dedication services at Cardston, indeed filled with the "Bread of life," for a spiritual feast was there spread which many a one had never partaken of before. There were tears shining in more than one eye at the appearance of our revered and beloved president whose countenance seemed to shine with the light within. It was the first time many had seen him since his visit here years before as an apostle. For with the struggle against the rigorous elements of a northern climate, as well as the periodical droughts, very few have been able to attend the semi-annual conferences at Salt Lake City very regularly. And those who are privileged to have this blessing could scarcely understand the thrills which passed through the beings of the Saints in Canada at the sight of the large representation of leading brethren and sisters who attended our president on the trip. To hear the inspired voices of two or three apostles, or other leading brethren, as well as a sermon from President Grant at the same meeting was an experience long to be remembered. And the striking note referred to concerning the decorative scheme was also noticeable in the services. So many months had the occasion been looked forward to that an outsider would have expected a little pomp or sentimental emotion to be exhibited. On the contrary the speakers gave no trace of prepared oratory, from the president, who knelt in humility before the altar to offer the dedicatory prayer, to the speakers. All were simple exponents of truth, but one felt the power behind their words. - The key note of all the sessions naturally was salvation for the dead; and the wonderful blessings which the living were to receive, through the blessings of the temple, were dwelt upon. The timely words of counsel, given as they were within the hallowed walls of the temple of God, sank deeply into the hearts of the listeners. An unusual drama might be written, depicting the wistful dreams which have been woven with the building of the temple. The living as well as the departed have looked forward to its completion with yearning hearts. And there is every reason to believe that many of our dear ones who have gone before also took a keen interest in the happenings of dedication week. The edifice is now finished, and with its completion, a spirit of permanency and contentment will pervade the homes of the Saints in Canada, such as has never before been experienced. As sure as the Lord liveth his blessings will flow in at our doors. The United Order Rart IT. By J. M. Sjodahl No less remarkable than the peace doctrine in the Book of Mormon is the exemplification in that record, on a somewhat large scale, of the United Order. The story of this feature of American life?the rise and fall of an American Millennium? is recorded in IV Nephi 2-4 and 24-6: "And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did idea! Justly one with another. "And they had all things common among them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the heavenly gift. "And it came to pass that the thirty and seventh year passed away also, and there still continued to be peace in the land." "And now, in this two hundred and first year there began to be among them those who were lifted up in pride, such as the wearing of costly apparel, and all manner of fine pearls, and of the fine things of the world. "And from that time forth they did have their goods and their substance no more common among them. "And they began to be divided into classes; and they began to - build up churches unto themselves to get gain, and began to deny the true church of Christ." Millennium in America. We are here informed that the people who were converted and accepted the gospel of Christ, as a consequence were filled with the spirit of love and unity, and they had all things common. Peace prevailed. As Elder George Reynolds expresses it: "Indeed, it may be said that a type, a fore-shadowing of the Millennium for once found place among the erring sons of humanity." And this wonderful condition lasted for 150 years. Another Evidence for the Book of Mormon. This is one more remarkable evidence of the agreement of the Book of Mormon with the teachings of the New Testament, even when these teachings are concealed instead of revealed as in the authorized Bible translation. In the New Testament we read that the converts on the day of Pentecost, whom the Spirit filled with power from on high, "continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers." (Acts 2:42.) The word translated fellowship is Roinonia, which really means a great deal more than fellowship in the abstract. It means, as in verse 44, an arrangement whereby things were held THE UNITED ORDER 551 in common. It means, practically, what among the Latter-day Saints is known as the United Order; so that a faithful translation might be: "They continued steadfastly in the teachings of the apostles, and the united order, and the breaking of the bread, and the prayers.". We see here that the koinonia, the united order, was part of the teaching of the apostles, as was the sacrament and the prayers. It was not clumsy, impractical communism, but some wise, practical arrangement, entirely voluntary, whereby every member was provided for in "all things" both temporal and spiritual. Nor was this a purely Pentecostal condition born of the first enthusiasm of faith. It was part of the Christianity of the New Testament. For a long time after Pentecost, Paul wrote to his beloved Timothy: "Charge them that are rich in this world, that they * * * do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate." (I Tim. 6:17-19.) The word translated "willing to communicate" is koinoni-kous which might better be rendered, "actively interested in the united order," thereby "laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life." That was the doctrine of Paul to the end of his earthly mission. This koinonia, or united order, is, in the New Testament, especially ascribed to the Holy Spirit. Paul says: "The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God and the koinonia of the Holy Ghost be with you all." (2 Cor. 13:14.) That accounts for 2 Peter 1:4, where the apostle says the divine promise is that those who escape the corruption of the world may be "partakers" koinon-oi of divine nature. It also explains the fact that whenever the Holy Spirit is poured out upon the believers, there is a union of interests, both temporal and spiritual, comes into existence, as naturally as order out of chaos. And so we have a united order in the New Testament, and also in the Book of Mormon. In the Doctrine and Covenants, too, the doctrine of the United Order is taught. That it is also taught in the Book of Mormon is strong' proof of the divine inspiration of that volume. Joseph Smith could not, from his knowledge of the New Testament, have invented the story in Fourth Nephi; nor could anyone else. Community of Interests Among Indians. Again the question arises whether Indian culture as recorded knows any community of interests? a koinonia?such as that described in the fourth book of Nephi. And again the answer is a wonderful confirmation of the Book of Mormon; for, in fact, the very foundation of the highest Indian social structure is community of interests. Construction of Indian Society. Unlike civilized society in our day, Indian society was made up of gentes, totems, or *Secs. 51:3; 9; 70; 78:5; 82:17; 72:11; 82:20; 104:1; 104:68; 105:34, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE clans, and not of families. The gens is a body of "consanguineal kindred,' whether by birth or adoption. They all live together in one house or lodge, and are under obligation to assist one another. Each gens is self-governing. It elects its own chieftain and decides on all questions of property within its own limits. Marriage within the gens is prohibited, and descent is, in many instances, traced, and property descends in the female line only. When descent was reckoned through the female line, the husband joined through marriage the gens of the wife. Property, with the exception of a few articles of personal necessity, belonged to the wife, and the husband had no claim on it. The price of a man, if killed, was only three-fourths that of a woman, among the Hurons. This social arrangement seems very strange to us, but it was similar to that which prevailed among the Semites in the days of Abraham. Sarah was the "princess," as the name implies. That is, she was the chieftainess, and her position went by inheritance to her successors, Rebekah, Leah, Dinah, and Sarah, the daughter of Asher, the son of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid. ' (Num. 26:46.) In Egypt, too, in those days, the woman was the mistress of the house. She held the property, and inheritance was through the female line. This social feature was 'preserved among the American Indians, as it is to this day, to some extent, among the Arabs of the desert. A group of gentes or clans formed a phratry or brotherhood, generally for religious purposes, and a group of phratries constituted a tribe. The tribe was governed by a council. The chief was elected by that body, and his authority was. Limited to affairs of peace. For war, a war chief was elected by the council, and he was supreme while there was war. The Long House. The Long House of the Iroquois Indians illustrates the principle of a united order. This habitation was from fifty to a hundred feet long. The interior was divided off in compartments, six or eight feet each, and open towards a passageway or aisle which ran through the center of the house. There was one fire-place to each four rooms, and this was used by the four families occupying the rooms nearest. "Thus a house with five fires would contain twenty apartments and accommodate twenty families, unless some apartments were reserved for storage. They were warm, roomy, and tidily-kept habitations. Raised bunks were constructed around the walls of each apartment for beds. * * * Whatever was taken in the hunt or raised by cultivation by any THE UNITED ORDER 53 member of the household * * * was for the common benefit. Provisions were made a common stock within the: household." To that extent they had preserved the principle of the "United Order," which was practiced by the Nephites as related in the Book of Mormon. This was, as Dr. Brinton says, the ideal theory of the American tribal organization. And we may recognize its outlines almost anywhere on the continent, although it was carried out sometimes with more, sometimes with less, faithfulness to the perfect pattern. In Peru the principles of the United Order were applied on a larger scale and more in detail than anywhere else. There is a striking similarity between the ideals and aims of these Iroquois reformers and those of the Peruvian Incas. The rulers of Peru also aimed at the unification of the nations under one divinely appointed head, and, although their power was that of absolute despotism, they generally sought to overcome Opposition by the exercise of paternal benevolence. Where, then, we may ask, did the prehistoric inhabitants of America obtain their ideas of a "Millennial" kingdom on this earth? Whence came their inspiration? There is, as far as I know, only one answer to that question. The marvelous light which their ancestors once enjoyed, as related in the Book of Mormon, was never entirely extinguished. Here and there a spark from the divine fire was glowing, dimly, uncertainly, but yet perceptible to men and women who had the gift to see and to reflect. In others words, they had traditions, in more or less imperfect form, of the institutions and teaching of their ancestors, and of the gospel that promises a reign of peace on earth. And they were endeavoring, in' their imperfect way, to follow the dim light, in the hope of finally reaching the goal?the "golden age" of which prophets and poets in all ages have spoken. Prayer By Christie Lund Lord, in this hour of night Lord, in this dark despair Show us the way; Teach us to feel Give us again the light That thou canst hear our prayer Of happy day. Tho' mute we kneel. Strengthen our wayward feet To firmly stand; Down in this darkness deep, Give us thy hand. Ink Spots and Golden Glow By Estella Pugmire Rich "Five-thirty, dear; time to start another. Day." Ruth's heavy lids opened slightly. Melvin, putting on a shoe, dropped it, and the crash cut through her consciousness like a jagged wound. She sat up in bed. The bedroom opened off the living room, and through the open doorway Ruth caught a glimpse of an ugly ink-stain on her pine-cone table runner. Memories of last night assailed her. She and Melvin had almost quarreled?that is she had. Melvin refused calmly to answer the hot words she flung at him and that had exasperated her all the more. Melvin had insisted as usual in sitting through the evening with the newspaper propped in front of his face, and his stockinged feet resting on the library table. It had long been a source of irritation to Ruth?this stocking-foot habit of Melvin's, and the resting place he invariably chose for his feet; but last night it had seemed intolerable even before his unfortunate move had upset the ink bottle. She had sprung up, then, anger flaming her face, a half-darned sock still covering her hand: "If you'd keep your feet on the floor, Melvin, where they belong,?but no, you must spoil the last vestige of beauty I've tried to bring into this hideous farm life." "I'm sorry, dear," Melvin answered quietly, blotting up the black stream that trailed across her precious pine-cone table runner, "but I can't see why a little ink spot should call out such an outburst. I'll buy you another as soon as I go into town." Buy her another, indeed! Of course, he couldn't understand ?what man could??all the long hours she had put into it. She had made it while convalescing after Junior's birth, two years before. There had been no time for fancy work since then. The cluster of big, brown cones she had worked with such infinite care never failed to bring a queer little feeling of coolness when she glimpsed them in these hot, busy days of summer. And heaven knew she needed a feeling of coolness with her head aching steadily for a week at a time as it had been doing lately. Junior's voice from the bedroom checked the torrent of angry words struggling for utterance. "Mudder, me wants a drink," he whimpered. "Oh, leave it alone," she said wearily to Melvin over her INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 555 shoulder as she passed: into the bedroom with a glass of water, "I see what I can do with it tomorrow." Listlessly Ruth dragged herself out into the kitchen where Melvin had already made the fire before going out to do his chores. When he returned, the cereal was bubbling on the back of the range and Ruth was putting a platter of fried ham into the warming oven. Ugh, how she hated the smell of ham! And the driving noise of that separator! A stray fly buzzed past her ear and began a leisurely journey around the sugar bowl. She reached for the swatter but it was not on its accustomed nail. 7 Breakfast over, Melvin kissed her and started for the south field, but he called back to tell her there would be six 'men instead of five for dinner. She nodded languidly as her eyes surveyed the medley before her?the huge separator, the soiled and drying breakfast dishes, a bucket of eggs to case, bread to be put in the tins. By this time Junior was awake and crying lustily for his breakfast. Before she could get him bathed and dressed, little Tommy Atkins ran over to tell her that Emmy wouldn't be over to help her. Emmy. Was the sixteen-year-old neighbor girl who helped Ruth forenoons, during the summer. "She says she's got a sore throat, but pa says it's nothing but bein' 'petered out from too much dancin'." Tommy lowered his voice confidingly. "I heard pa tell her he'd 'lick' her if she went to another dance this week." Ruth fed Junior, then led him out into his sand pile to play. She gathered up the dishes, took the separator apart, and began the daily routine of bringing order out of the chaos. A scream rent the air. She ran out to find Junior with a jagged cut across his finger. A rusty tomato can lay beside him. She dressed the wound with iodine, wrapped up the finger, then gathering the squirming little body up in her arms she. Carried him into the living room and began rocking him. Presently he fell asleep and she sat still, staring moodily at a honey bee that had been tempted in by a bowl of flowers. It beat its head against the window screen in a vain attempt to reach freedom. "We are all like that," she mused, "enticed into something that appears so beautiful only to find it changed to prison bars." She laid Junior down, with a worried eye on the clock. Farm life leaves so little time for the children! By a quarter to eleven, Ruth had fought her way through the morning's work. Junior still slept. If only she might stretch out on the davenport for a half hour's rest before starting dinner, but she remembered that Melvin had failed to get the potatoes. That meant she must make a trip down to the garden. 
 With dinner due in an hour and a-half there was time neither for rest nor for the churning that must be done before night. She went into the closet for her hat, and while reaching, dislodged a kodak album. A picture fluttered to the floor. She picked it up and stood staring at it like something she had never seen before. It was one of those bits of crystallized life that almost drugs with its peace?she and Dr. Charlie Black, both in white, lolling contentedly in two huge wicker chairs, a glimpse of rose-bordered bungalow behind them; a sweep of wide lawn before them, with a shadow from an ash tree caught in its velvet?that was all; but it spoke to Ruth of what might have been. She remembered the days so well. Dr. Charlie had brought her out to his mother's home for a few days before he left to study medicine. For a moment Ruth almost caught the thrill of his caressing voice?'"It will all be ours some day, Girlie, if you'll just say the word.", Somehow her memories of Dr. Black were always bound up with leisure, moonlight nights, boxes of flowers and candy, and a vague, uneasy feeling that he was not wholly sincere. She had felt herself desperately in love with Dr. Black, then, but something had held her back from making the promise that he sought. "Wait till you come back and we'll see how we feel then," she told him. Then Melvin had come into her life, and something way down * in the deep, still part of her being responded to the bigness of his soul, his sincerity, his utter disregard of sham, and before Dr. Black had finished his second year of study, a narrow band of gold proclaimed Ruth?Mrs. Melvin Packard. Melvin had already bought a farm about ten miles out from Adamson, Dr. Black's home town. Dr. Black, himself, had married shortly afterward?a St. Louis girl, and three years later had come back to practice in his home town and occupy the white bungalow that his mother's death had made his own. "We are only here temporarily," Mrs. Black confided to Ruth at their first meeting. "I simply couldn't bear to live permanently in a town where its people fail to dress for dinner." A sharp contrast rose in Ruth's mind of the difference in hers and Mrs. Black's method of spending this day. Mrs. Black no doubt was working among her flowers, or embroidering out on her shady porch. Ruth looked with disdain on the ink-stained ' table runner. She must find time to run down to the store for a lemon. Lemon and, O yes, salt, that would take it out. INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 557 Her toe caught in the frayed end of a rug. Another job that must not be put off another day. At noon, Ruth filled a bucket with hot water and set it with soap and wash basin on a bench outside the kitchen door. She hung two towels on a nail above it. If only the "hands" would wash before they wiped, and if the last sweating man would think to throw out the water. She found herself praying that there wouldn't be a black, dirty ring around the wash basin. The men talked incessantly of the need of getting the hay up before storm, of derricks, of bull rakes?she would scream if they said bull rake again! What would Melvin think if she screamed out at these men who were making a slave of her? draining the last drop of beauty from her soul! Melvin, ready to leave for the field again, touched her tenderly on the shoulder. "You don't look well, dear; leave the dishes and I'll help you when I come in tonight." "Oh, I'm all right. It's this awful heat." Suddenly she remembered the apples?she must cook enough for supper, and for pies for tomorrow's dinner. It was a shame to open her canned fruit with apples spoiling on the tree. She would go down and pick a pailful before she changed her dress. She put Junior in his buggy, and gave him some clothespins with which to play while she picked a few of the lowest apples; then finding that the reaching sent hot waves of pain through her back and head, she dragged out an old box and swung herself up into the lower limbs. One of Junior's safety pins converted her skirt into a basket and she proceeded to billow out its depths with the tender, luscious fruit. "Well, well, Mrs. Packard," a metallic voice greeted her, "is your husband hiring you by the day or by the hour?" Ruth's eyes rested in dismay on the smartly clad Mrs. Black so cooly scrutinizing her. "I?ve come to take you into Madrix." Madrix was the cosmopolitan little city that drew its trade, not alone from its own citizens, but the surrounding towns as well. "I'm driving in to get some dresses I ordered a week ago. I really haven't a thing to wear as you can see."; Ruth saw a rose-colored sport suit?the kind she had dreamed about for herself?lovely in its quality and cut. "T tried to call you up but central couldn't raise you; so I just took a chance on your going and drove out. We'll have dinner at Murello's,"' Mrs. Black continued, "and then home again at a respectable bed time. I left a note for the Doctor saying I'd be back not later than ten o'clock." "Oh, I'm so sorry, Mrs. Black, but I really can't." A vision of two "hands" again for supper, churning to do, apples to 
 stew, clothes to put to soak. Why, oh, why could she never get through? "Well, of course, if you can't?" Mrs. Black's voice held well-bred contempt, "it must be terrible to never have any leisure." When she had gone, Ruth got slowly down from the tree. For the life of her she could not hurry except in her thoughts. They rushed ahead to the never ending drudgery. She started for the kitchen but the house began to recede, whirling faster and faster as she neared it. She stretched her hand out for the knob to steady herself and fell headlong across the step. When she awoke it was in the dim stillness of a white hospital room. "What's happened?" she asked faintly of the crisp vision in white, bending over her. "Operation, Mrs. Packard, just lie still now and you' won't feel so sick," and the nurse tiptoed out for a moment, leaving Melvin alone with his wife. His face, Ruth thought, looked unnaturally white through its heavy coat of tan, yet his lips smiled whenever her eyes rested on him. It seemed to Ruth that she had been wandering through a burning desert and the coolness and stillness that had descended upon her now was an oasis of peace. Dr. Black, himself, came in presently, "Doing just fine. We'll have you up in no time now, and feeling a lot better than before you stretched yourself out on the doorstep, too." When Ruth was well enough to be propped up among her pillows, she found a quiet enjoyment in the well-ordered efficiency of the life about her, no rush or hurry; the calm and quiet nurses showed no signs of fatigue. Three times daily the tray furnished a happy surprise. She could even read a few minutes at a time, some of the lovely things in Browning or Keats?things that had been completely crowded out by the many demands that farm life makes on its women. Jasimine McFarlane, the nurse whom Melvin secretly called Jazzy, because of her kittenish action when Dr. Black was around, had warned Ruth against such "heavy trash" and had offered her a copy of True Stories. "Something racy enough to be interesting" she had told her. But Ruth had continued with her Browning. Once Dr. Black had brought her a great box of roses. "From my own garden," he told her. "T know, there on the south, I shall never forget how it looked that day we had those snaps taken." "Nor I," he answered. A warm note crept into his voice, "Oh, my Gypsy Lady,' INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 559 Gypsie Lady was a name he had coined for her in one of his gay, tender moods, long ago, "that rose garden ought to have been yours. What a picture you'd make against those dark red ones!" Ruth resented his use of that endearing term, his tone; and yet it quickened her pulse and made flaming banners of her cheeks. Melvin had come in just then and he carried a huge bunch of golden glow. "Mother picked them;' he said, "while I was cranking the jitney. They look pretty commonplace against those roses, though." Melvin sat down by the bed and took one of her hands in his work-hardened ones. The hard callouses on his hands irritated her tender flesh. She found herself sharply aware of Melvin's rough khaki trousers, his heavy shoes. She wished he had taken time to put on his black suit. That wouldn't have contrasted so badly with Dr. Black's well pressed gray. Instantly Ruth felt ashamed. Hadn't Melvin already added another hour to his already long work day, digging the trenches for the pipe so that they could have the water installed in the house before she came home. "You can come for your wife tomorrow evening, Mr. Packard," Dr. Black told Melvin as he was leaving, and the light that sprang into Melvin's eyes found an answering one in Ruth's. Melvin left at nine o'clock. Through her open window Ruth heard him crank the car and drive away; one more night and she would be with him and baby Junior! Miss McFarlane came in presently to see if her patient needed anything, but Ruth was already asleep. The nurse tiptoed out, leaving the door partly ajar. Directly across the hall from Ruth's room was the supply room. It was here the nurses often congregated for a brief gossip and Ruth found her knowledge of human nature vastly enlarged from the low-toned conversations that occasionally drifted in. > Shortly after midnight, Ruth awoke. She could hear someone moving quietly around in the supply room. Miss McFarlane, no doubt, preparing a sleeping potion for some wakeful patient. Suddenly she heard someone coming down the hall. Dr. Black, she couldn't mistake those footsteps! She caught a glimpse of his coat as he entered the supply room. "I thought I'd find you here," she heard him say in a low voice. The girl's answer was blotted out in a ripple of laughter that followed. "You little devil,' Ruth heard a slight scuffle, "you know you want me to kiss you." A moment's silence then, followed by more hushed whisperings. Ruth's face burned in the darkness. And this was the man whose wife she envied! This was the man with whom 
 Melvin had suffered in comparison! She was humbled and humiliated. Why, Melvin was worth more than a world full of Dr. Blacks with their well pressed clothes, their laughing eyes and their lying lips. What did it matter if she did sometimes work beyond her strength; what mattered if she were denied some of the luxuries of life? Rose colored dresses, music, money, leisure, Mrs. Black needed them all to compensate her for the hollowness of her husband's love. Separators, churning, canning, hay men, yes, and a thousand other things, so long as she was harbored in the love of a man like Melvin. The following evening Melvin and Junior came for her in the jitney. The ride home through the mellow autumn twilight, Junior's chubby, little hands clutching tightly to hers, Melvin's voice tremulous with love and tenderness, it was like a benediction. "I feel like a church all lighted up with Easter candles," she thought. When they turned into the lane that led to the house, Ruth caught sight of her mother-in-law standing in the doorway, waving frantically with one hand while with the other she wiped her eves on her apron. "Joy is the only thing that can make mother do that," Melvin smiled. He drove up to the door and then carried Ruth in and deposited her on the living-room couch. Mother Packard had supper ready, and when she brought Ruth's tray, it held a single, white rose bud. "Melvin would have me put it. On," the good woman scolded, "though I've always said "less grass, more grub, for me." Her harsh laughter sounded strangely home-like and com- "forting after the stilled, unnatural atmosphere of the hospital. When the dishes were washed and Junior had kissed "Muvver" good-night, and been tucked into bed, Mother Packard, herself, awkwardly planted a kiss-on her daughter's forehead. ?I'll be over first thing in the morning," she said, "to see if Emmy's doing all right." She closed the door and Melvin and Ruth were alone in the silence of their sleeping house. Ruth looked lovingly at each object, the picture of Junior in its gilt frame, the piano in its shadow-darkened corner, the sixteen-dollar reading lamp Melvin had given her for Christmas. In its pool of yellow light, Ruth saw a great bunch of golden glow in her brass bowl. "It's to cover up that ink-stain," Melvin said quickly, when he saw her eyes resting on it. "You know, dear, you kept talking about the ink spots when you were coming out of the ether. I happened to remember it after I had started for you tonight, INK SPOTS AND GOLDEN GLOW 561 so I hurried back and filled that bowl with golden glow so those ink spots wouldn't show." "Dear boy," Ruth's voice was husky, "this home, my baby, your love?that's the golden glow. With it the ink spots don't matter." Thanksgiving By Beatrice Williams I thank thee, Lord, for mountains grand and tall, For dull, gray skies of bleak November days, For that lone robin on the old stone wall, That sings in sweetest tones his parting lays. I thank thee for that tiny flower, there, That in the garden bed still blooms alone. Its golden head was once so bright and fair, But now it droops as by the wind 'tis blown. I thank thee for the friends thou givest me, To clasp my hand and lead my feet aright, To banish grief and help my eyes to see, And give me faith to pray throughout the night. For thine own son, who died that we might live And know our Father's glory and his might; My humblest thanks in praise to thee I give, Oh, Lord and Savior, of the truth and light. List of Literary Lessons for 1928 Lew Sarett Bertha A. Kleinman Carl Sanburg Grace Ingles Frost John Masefield Gladys Ann Wagstaff Robert Louis Stevenson Elsie C. Carroll Charles G. D.
