Literary Celebrities Visit Latter-day Saint Temple Dedication of the Canadian Temple Helen Kimball Orgill 548 The United Order.... J. M. Sjodahl 550 Ink Spots and Golden Glow Estella Pugmire Rich 554 Thanksgiving Beatrice Williams 561 Notes from the Field Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year?l5c Single Copy  Phone Wasatch 3123 {7 ~ DIAMONDS It is not too early to think of Diamonds?messengers of Christmas sentiment for loved ones. BOYD P. JEWELERS 166 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY For Three Generations To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS SAN FRANCISCO own To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning $58.00 direct or route reversed.....................Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 
 MAIN ST.. SALT LAKE CITY PHONES WAS. 3008?3078 2,  There are many who suffer loss. Be prudent?Avert it by This organization writes every form of insurance always of the highest quality?Such as that offered by the Utah Home Fire Insurance Company. H Home Fire I C Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. HEBER J. GRANT & CO., General Agents 22 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah ?  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Factory-Made famous Z. C. M. I. ~ Mountaineer OVERALLS For men, youths, boys and children, 9-0z. Copper Riveted WAIST OVERALLS For men and boys. Wear *em and let 'er buck. Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS For Children Select your Family's Christmas Present NOW! We have just received carload shipments for Xmas delivery of GULBRANSEN. 'Registering' PIANOS Straight pianos $295, $350 Easy Terms Freight Paid Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co. Ogden Salt Lake City Pocatello When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Registering player pianos.................$450, $580, $615, $700 USE - BENNETT'S "PROPERTY LIFE INSURANCE" PAINT PRODUCTS "For the Adornment and Protection of all Surfaces" Made by Sold by Salt Lake Pocatello Everywhere in the West  L.D.S. GARMENTS Seven DIRECT FROM FACTORY Times You are guaranteed unusual wear Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years. No. 68 Lt. Wt. Ladies' new style. Sent to you No. 74 Lt. Weight combed....$1. A6 No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle.......... 1.45 No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back.................. 1.70 No. 56 Heavy weight............. 2.15 No. 27 Med. Heavy, % wool.... 3.35 No. 39 Extra heavy, 4 wool... 3.85 Please state whether for men or women?new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash?Cash Pays Utah Power & Light Co. And Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 111 E. 2nd So. St., Salt Lake City The Weir Steel Furnace Saves 25% on your fuel bill?makes cleaner heat because of its construction of electric welded joints. All installations according to the standard code. Best for Burning Oil or Coal MORRISC. JOHNSON SHEET METAL WORKS 850 So. State Wasatch 1189 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (Bennett Glass & Paint Co. And satisfaction from Cutler Garments if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear No. 64 Medium weight............ 1.43 No. 62 Medium heavy.............. 1.70 ) Reliable Dealers amp1on of the World on Free Trial L. D. S. GARMENTS When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid in U. S. Samples on request. Upper o Bs: 758 Bleached, Med. Hvy.............. 1.95 3 pair 2.75 BARTON & GO Special Sunday Bricks and Neopolitan Bricks 25? pt., 50c qt. Call Your Keeley's Dealer. Extra packed in ice. EW! And Fast TEX BEST ELECTRIC WASHER Here is the latest and highest development in washing machines?a speedy, efficient electric washer with every feature a modern washer should have. The marvelous new Apex handles a standard 8 pound load at a single washing and does an average week's laundry in one hour. Terms to suit your convenience. Come in today for a demonstration, Inter-Mountain Electric Co. 43-59 EASY 4TH SO. Or. Fer Free demonstration Call Was. 354 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 142 Light Weight, Fiat..........$.95 204 Double Carded Cotton, Rib 1.35 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt..... 1.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Striped....... 1.65 252 Cotton Bleached, Med. Wt. 1.75 744 Unbleached, Med. Hvy....... 1.85 
 622 Mercerized Lisle, Lt. Wt...$2.15 244 Swiss Rib. Lisle and Silk 7" Rayon, New Style............ 2.25 Ladies' hosiery, new shades 1.00 Established in Utah 45 Years Salt Lake City, Utah 4 Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.. Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. Electrical Appliances of all kinds: Toasters, Waffle Irons, Flat Irons, Curling Irons, Electric Heaters, etc. Every ann. Sold Dealt YOUNG SAMSON knows what he?s aiming at?bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It is a ringer every time, and the price is health. Clover Leaf Dairy. 159 W 1st So Was. 2177 Electrical Appliances of all kids: Toasters, Curling Irons, Electric Heaters, etc. Every article sold by us in absolutely guaranteed. For gifts of any kind, nothing is more appreciated than Electrical Appliances. It will give us pleasure to serve you. Modern Electric Co Was. 2307 128 So. State St. Electrical Dealers and Contractors. HAVE YOU $100.00??$$$$ YOUR IDLE MONEY WILL DOUBLE ITSELF Each $100.00 will be worth $200.00 if you allow the interest to remain on one share of Paidup-Stock which exactly matures one share of Installment Stock. OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS George M. Cannon, President Matthew Noall, Vice-President George Q. Morris, Secretary-Treasurer David P. Howells, Dr. George W. Middleton, Milton Bennion, Dr. W. E. Hunter, John Fetzer, S. H. Love. 34% Increase During 1926 49 W. So. Temple St. Salt Lake City Wasatch 2789 BUILT TC ENDURE AUTHORIZED CAPITAL?$2,000,000.00 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Friendship By Elsie C. Carroll I did not know what friendship meant Till trouble came to me; I did not know the many ways That friends could friendly be. I did not know how many hands Would help me bear my cross; I did not know how many hearts Would sorrow at my loss. I did not know the blessedness Of just a word; a tear; The pressure of a hand; a sigh; The silent standing near And breathing just a little prayer That shines from out the eyes; Of just a written line of hope;? All these I've learned to prize. And I have learned the world can't be As empty as it seems, When all one's love and joy are dead. The light of friendship gleams. And like a little torch it sheds A halo in the dark? A radiance that warms and spreads Until it strikes a spark. Within the soul made desolate, On humble knees I bend And pray that I may learn to be In times of need?a friend! ??THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. XIV NOVEMBER, 1927 No. 11 Visitors Thronged the Portals of the Arizona Temple | By Fay Ollerton, M. A. Five years ago the temple grounds at Mesa, Arizona, were part of an irrigated tract, close to the desert mesquite and cactus; and the interior of a "Mormon" temple was an enticing mystery to the uninitiated. Today a building, beautiful in its classic simplicity and gleaming walls of white terra cotta, stands in the center of green lawns, brilliant flowers, and slender cypress trees; and thousands of tourists pass weekly through the temple portal. They go in, many of them inclined to be amused, and afire with curiosity. But when they exit through the entrance door, with its inscription, "Holiness to the Lord," the questioning look is gone, and they walk with unseeing eyes through the long foyer of comfortable seats and vases of flowers and out of the hallway, as if they, too, had received some longed for understanding. If they come out not temple worshipers, they are at least impressed and silenced by the beauty they have witnessed. The Arizona temple has been open many months to all who throng the highway. And the highway, for the "Mormon" building lies on the south side of the old Apache trail, now a smooth band of cement. In less than two years 150,000 tourists, three-fourths of whom are non-Church members, have been guided through the temple, either by Elders Irvin King and Raymond Stewart of the California mission, or volunteers from the Maricopa stake. At the time of this writing, a little less than a month before the temple will be forever closed to chance visitors, the tourists are flocking in by the hundreds and thousands daily. On the third Sunday in September more than fifteen hundred of them thronged the building, one group following on the literal heels of another. 
 For some time, Tuesday has been the only week night open to visitors outside the Church, but so great has been the demand that every night for a month previous to the dedication, the gates will be opened. The devotees come, not as they did to temples of old, on camel back and bearing gifts; instead they ride in cars: rattling rusty ones of the modern hobo, camp-laden ones of the vacationist, and the upholstered purring limousines of the wealthy. In place of the gifts they ride laden with questions, and they do not leave the sacred building until their interest has been fed. Every week an average of thirty-three states and two or three foreign countries are registered. It is rather a strange fact that of all the races, the negroes seem to be the most interested. Practically every negro in Arizona, and Arizona, considering her small population, has a large number of them, has visited the temple at least once. They go through the building in specially conducted groups, and they listen intently to the explanations given in the lecture rooms. It is to James W. Lesueur, many years head of the Maricopa stake, and present assistant to the chief official in the temple, that honor goes for first suggesting the building to President Joseph F. Smith. Mr. Lesueur has been one of the voluntary guides and has taken many interesting persons on his rounds. Descendants of the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon have gone through with him; Oliver Cowdery's grandson from Cleveland, the grandson of David Whitmer, and Lehi Harris, worker on the temple and grandson of Martin Harris. Through cooperation with the railroads and automobile companies, the visitors have been made acquainted with the temple. Governor Lowden spent several interesting hours with Ex-president Lesueur. John Galsworthy came to Mesa, prepared to stay until his curiosity concerning the "Mormons" was satisfied. He was in the temple more than three hours, carefully questioning his guide. "He took little interest in the building itself," Mr. Lesueur said, "he wanted to know about our belief and philosophy, and how we managed to keep our contacts with the young people of the Church." Another noted visitor was Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. One day thirty financiers and professional men, some of whose names are household words, were in the temple for an afternoon. Among them were Mr. Curtis and his wife of the Saturday Evening Post, and their interest rivalled that of the English novelist. MULTITUDES THRONGED ARIZONA TEMPLE 531 A woman came to the temple one afternoon with the announcement that she had read of the Mesa building in a Buffalo paper, and had straightway crossed the continent. "I've always wanted to see the inside of a 'Mormon' temple," she confessed, "and I decided this would be my one chance." Harold Bell Wright, for many years an inhabitant of Arizona, has written to know the latest date of the temple's closing, and if he may be admitted. Equally anxious is the Contractors' and Builders' Union of the Pacific Coast. This organization recently requested the officials to allow them to inspect the building one day after its official closing on October 16. Perhaps one of the most prolific days in Church history came when a car with eight persons stopped on the Apache Trail long enough to inquire about the new building. They lingered in the temple for several hours and returned later. Not long after, they were all baptized. "It is a fact, " Ex-president Lesueur said, "that more than a hundred baptisms in this county alone can be directly traced to the influence of the temple." And so the visitors continue to pour in. The members of other churches in the surrounding country, who. Have long been familiar with "Mormon" tenets, show greater interest in the building, the missionary guides say. They want to know what the panels on the outside walls represent, the significance of the beautiful baptistry resting on the twelve terra cotta oxen, and the interpretation of the picture representing the creation of the world. Visitors from more distant parts appreciate the loveliness of the rooms, but question the guides as to beliefs and customs. Yet there are two rooms, the last to be visited, that invariably haunt the tourists with a desire to return. The first is the room typifying the future, beautiful in its chaste ivory lines, and the other the celestial room, its simplicity relieved by hangings of rich red velvet, Persian rugs, and especially designed furniture and mirrors. Opening from this room are the two small chambers where marriage is performed, and the visitors are always agog with curiosity when they step onto the soft rugs and smell the flowers from Salt River Valley gardens. "Ts it true,' one interested matron asked, "that all 'Mormon' children over twenty-one have to obey their parents when they have been sealed to them?" She looked as if she would immediately. Become a member of that faith if the guide answered in the affirmative. As yet the plans for the dedication have not been 
 definitely announced. It is thought that the dedicatory services will be held two or three times daily for a week, and that most of the Church authorities will be in attendance. A special anthem has been written; it, with the prayer, will be given at all meetings. Ten choirs will be present, one Indian choir from the Papago ward. The Los Angeles and Hollywood choirs will sing early Sunday morning "from the roof of the temple. Mesa with its charm of broad streets shaded by drooping peppers, lacy tamarisks, and inviting palms, is making itself even more beautiful for the event. The inhabitants expect more visitors than have yet come at one time during the last six months that the temple has been completely furnished. These visitors, while they will not, in a sense, be more welcome than the preceding ones, will be those who have long. Looked forward to the day when the Southwest will have its own gathering place. Their welcome will be one of completer understanding, for they, with the Latter-day Saints in Maricopa stake, are happy in the thought that the young people will not have to make the expensive journey northward, and that the older members can realize desires of spending their fading years in one of the temples. Dedicatory week, beginning on October 23, will be joyful days for the visitors and the dwellers of the desert oasis.