NOTES FROM THE FIELD 563 Tamaki and Nuhaka Relief Societies. Our Relief Societies gave splendid reports and were eager to receive some instructions; 35 out of our 39 organizations were reported, and 22 of them by presidents. To encourage better record keeping we prepared a Maori printed minute book for three years, with roll also, and 26 organizations secured them at Hui Tau. Many samples of splendid hand work were entered in our contest, and the sisters displayed much interest in the same. Next year our contest will be in twopart singing, Maori for those over fifty years, and English for those under fifty. We learned of a boy who expected to have to leave the Maori Agricultural College due to shortage of funds, so Sister Polly Duncan, first counselor of the mission board, appealed to the Relief Societies represented, and sufficient money was raised to enable him to attend this year. This is only one example of the free-heartedness of these sisters. Our slogan for 1927 is, 'Every officer and teacher an observer of the Word of Wisdom by 1928,' which, if accomplished, will be a, wonderful thing for the Maori sisters. This is a brief report of our part of the Hui Tau, and we are all looking forward to next year, hoping to see great improvement." Tongan Mission. THE SISTERS OF THE TOGATABU DISTRICT Mrs. Ada B. Cahoon, president of the Relief Societies of the Tongan mission, writes as follows of some of their activities: "The work here is very encouraging at present, and the attitude shown by the sisters is excellent. Although the only book they have access to is the Bible, we find the lessons very interesting All three districts here in the Tongan mission observed the 17th of March by a program, luncheon and dance. A small sum was 
 charged for this and the money from all was donated to the mission for the new cistern and house that are nearing completion at the present time. The sum of 25 pounds and 8 shillings (£ 25- 8-0) was realized. We feel that this is splendid, after taking into consideration the poverty of the people at present; but everyone did his best to make the event successful, and the spirit shown was indeed encouraging. We receive the Relief Society Magazine regularly here at headquarters, and surely appreciaate it." German-Austrian Mission. Following are excerpts from a letter recently received from Mrs. Rose Ellen Valentine, president of the Relief Societies of the German-Austrian mission: 'We have just completed a series of Relief Society conventions, which were held in connection with the district conferences. Nine sessions were held with a total attendance of 370 workers and visitors. The following topics were treated by local sisters: 'An opportunity to be a member of the Relief Society,' 'A duty to be a member of the Relief Society,' 'A responsibility to be a member of the Relief Society.' An outline was given each president, which included a suggested division of responsibility and duties for each officer of the organization. A plan for the procedure in conducting the different meetings was also given. The theme of the convention was 'Organization,' and I am sure much good will result from these meetings. 'The workers, too, were highly enthusiastic, and the spirit of appreciation shown by them more than rewarded the meagre efforts put forth. Permit me to say that the Magazine was of inestimable value in working out our plans." Malad Stake. The Malad stake, at the close of last year, passed envelopes to all the members of the Relief Society, to be used for enclosing dues. The notation on the envelope read: "T am a paid-up member of the Relief Society. "NamMe.....-. Cece ee cee eee eee eeees Carbon Stake (Price Ward). With aview of securing annual dues-early and promptly for 1927, the Price ward, at the close of 1926, distributed cards which read as follows: "PRICE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY "This card is to remind you that your annual dues are now payable. Kindly enclose 50 cents and return to your president at your earliest convenience, or give to your visiting teacher on her next call. Sign your name here. "Every enrolled member must be accounted for, therefore if you neglect the obligation, someone must pay it for you." Guide Lessons for January THE LESSON COURSE FOR 1928 The Theology Lessons for the coming year will be devoted to a discussion of the outstanding phases of the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. The Literature Lessons will be devoted to Modern Poetry, and will contain some American poets, including some of our western writers, some Canadian poets and some English poets. The Introduction to the Social Service Lessons outlines the work for 1928. LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in January) THE DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES I. The Theological Necessity for a New Dispensation 1. To Fulfil the Predictions of the Prophets and the Visions of the Seers. Centuries before the ushering in of this dispensation the prophet Daniel prophesied to the king of Babylon, "And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the Kingdom shall not be left te other people." Daniel 2:28-45. The Prophet Micah declared: "But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob: and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." Micah 4:1-2. We have the predictions of the Prophet Malachi, 'Behold I will send you Elijah the prophet." See Malachi 4:1-6, also section 2 Doc. And Cov., also Matt. 17:11. "I will proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder." See Isaiah 29:14. The most ancient prediction was made by Joseph who was sold into Egypt, and quoted. By Lehi, on the head of his sor, Nephi. II Nephi 6, These are but a few of many predictions the fulfilment of which required the dispensation in which we live. 2. To Re-Establish the True God Idea. Jesus had left an idea of God which was in keeping with the 
 first idea of God, which was the true idea. And this idea was that God was the Father of the human family in character and in form. When the Savior was asked by Philip to show them the Father he declared that whoever had seen him, thé Christ, had seen the Father, meaning that the Father was a being with body, parts, and passions. The apostles had felt the hands of Jesus; they had seen him eat and drink. They had beheld him rebuking with righteous indignation, and they had seen him weep over the wilfulness of his kindred race. They had heard him many times humbly petitioning his Father and they had witnessed him banishing legions of evil spirits; there was no evidence of lingering doubt after that occasion as to the correct idea of God. But with the apostasy, spoken of as the falling away, or departure from righteous conduct, there was a corresponding dimness of the God idea, until God became, in the minds of man, something diffused into the everywhere anc centered in the nowhere. Mankind quarrelled over this faded idea of divinity; confusion reigned, and man, an organized intelligence, worshiped the un-organized, notwithstanding he was every day in all the lines of life facing the eternal fact that the organized is superior to the unorganized. A new revelation of God which would mean a new dispensation was necessary to throw this erroneous idea concerning God into the background and bring to the front the true idea of divinity. And this was done in the Sacred 'Grove, where God was seen and his Fatherhood proclaimed in the words, "This is my beloved Son," said as he pointed to Jesus the Christ standing by. (See Pearl of Great Price, page 48.) 3. A New Dispensation was Necessary to Restore to the Earth Divine Authority. Nowhere on the earth were the keys of the holy priesthood held. No doubt the translated John the Revelator was somewhere in the world, and he held the priesthood without the appointment to transfer it or officiate in the ordinances of the gospel. His mission, in keeping with his wish, was that of inspiring men to do good and thereby leading them to Christ. The three Nephites operated and are still operating on the earth with privilegés and limitations. John with Peter and James operated under special appointment to restore the Melchizedek priesthood. 4. This Dispensation was Necessary for the Deliverance of the "Spirit in Prison." 5. It was Necessary for the Regeneration of the American Indian. 6. It was Necessary for the Welding of the Ties of Family Love which Death had Broken for Ages. ———————<"—< ee GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 
 What the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times Is Paul defines a dispensation in Ephesians 1:9. The Prophet Joseph Smith is quoted as saying: Now the thing to be known is what the Fulness of Times means, or the extent and authority thereof. It means this: "That the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times is made up of all the Dispensations that ever have been given since the world began until this time. (See Compendium, page 143.) "This Dispensation of the Fulness of Times is a period in which all things will be restored to their proper order or condition." (Compendium, page 144.) "The term, Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, refers to the latter days, when the fulness of the gospel will be revealed, and the holy priesthood be restored to the earth. Under its direction the work of restoration will commence and be fully consummated, through the great plan of redemption for man and the earth, which was decided in the councils of Heaven before the foundations of the earth were laid. (Compendium, 146.) ~ The Dispensation of the lulness of Times may be called the final gospel period of preparation of the earth for the abode of Christ, the bringing about of a universal condition which obtained at the close of the Adamic dispensation; the people were pure in heart with material, social and spiritual environments, like that of the city of Enoch, a Zion of which the Lord Su "Mine abode forever." (Pearl of Great Price.) III, Preparatory Agencies for the Dispensation of the F'ulness of Tunes There were two major preparatory agencies for this Dispensation of the Iulness of Times, the Reformation and the founding of the United States government. 1. The reformation bringing the printed word of God to the laity or the common people through the printing of the Bible in the vernacular of the people. 2. The United States government which put into its fundamental law, the Constitution of the United States, the provision which safeguards religious liberty. "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof;'—Article I, Constitution. IV. The Operative Agencies The operative agencies of this dispensation include: 1. The Godhead: The Father and the Son, the former opening the dispensation by introducing his son, the latter by being the official instructor of the dispensation of Joseph Smith. 2. Angels: Moroni, revealing the Book of Mormon; Michael or Adam, revealing the deception of Satan; John the Baptist restoring the Aaronic Priesthood; Peter and James conferring the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood; Gabriel or Noah, Raphael, Moses, Elijah, and other resurrected beings. 
 3. A translated being—John the Revelator, who assisted Peter and James in restoring the Melchizedek Priesthood. 4. A group of men with Joseph the Prophet standing in the lead. 5. And then, more than all, excepting the Father and the Son, has been the third member of the Godhead, the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, the recorder in heaven, and testifier on earth, the giver of spiritual gifts. The final factor is that newness of life which comes through being born of the water and the spirit. Questions and Problems 1. Which of the Articles of Faith most closely correlate with the constitutional provision granting and protecting religious liberty? 2. Give the theological meaning of the phrase, "Fulness of Times.":: 3. Which of the necessities for this dispensation do you. Consider the greatest? ' 4. Name some of the outstanding characters of the Reformation.: 5. Wherein was the Reformation a preparatory agency for the gospel dispensation? 6. Mention the angels who were agencies in bringing about the dispensation. 7. What is the dispensational meaning of the Fulness of Times? 8. Tell what you can about the special mission of the angels of this dispensation. 9. Speak of the Holy Ghost as an agency. LESSON II ' Work and Business: _ (Second Week in January) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY—HOME I. The Home is a divine institution. A. Crowning glory of eternal progress. II. Foundation of civilization. A. Strength of a nation dependent upon stability of the home. ITI. Most potent factor in the life of the individual. "There can be no happiness separate and apart from the home, and every effort made to sanctify and preserve its influence is uplifting to those who toil and sacrifice for its establishment. There is no happiness without service and there is no service greater than that which converts the home into a divine institution.'—Gospel Doctrine, page 375. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 569 LESSON TIT Literature (Third Week in January) Lew SARETT Lew Sarett has written three books Many, Many Maons, the Box of God and Slow Smoke. These books reveal his intimacy with the Indians, his knowledge of the life of woodsmen and trappers and above all else his intense love of wild nature, for he has had close contact with animals in the wilds and with the haunts of the wild creature. He is frequently called a woodsman, and although he is a man of college training, at present holding a professorship in Northwestern University, at Evanston, near Chicago, every year he goes back for three or four months into the forest and renews his acquaintance with life in the woods. His knowledge of wild life is so intimate that between his power of sketching and his power of mimicry he can create a forest on a stage and fill it with animals so that his audience can hear their strange cries. A well known daily trying to give an idea of this man's knowledge and' appreciation of the outdoors writes the following account: "Lew Sarett is an interesting character, as virile and winning and interesting as the wild life from which he comes. Out of ten years of thrilling experience in the pathless Canadian forest, he pours his story of wilderness folk and wilderness ways of trails, tepees and tenderfeet. For several months of each year he worked in the Indian country of northern Minnesota and Ontario, Canada, and in the Rocky Mountains as a woodsman, a teacher of woodcraft, swimming and canoeing in sportmen's camps and as a forest ranger.: "Tlere he became the friend and comrade of the rugged, primitive men of the Canadian frontier, the trail blazers of the north. Here in the silent spaces of the great woods, he learned the secret of woodland life and woodland beasts. Here in the land of the "Great Spirit" he learned the ways of his friends, the Chippewa Indians. "From his experiences in the great woods, he has secured material for his fascinating lecture and inspiration for poems and articles which have been published by leading publications. Work in the great woods furnished the moriey for Lew Sarett's education, and he used it well. He is a graduate of Beloit College and the law school of the University of Illinois and -he has taken post graduate work at Harvard and the University of Michigan." Lew Sarett was born May 16, 1888 in Chicago, Illinois, and reared in the State of Michigan and in the Lake Superior country. 
 While he took a degree in law from the University of Ilinois in 1916, he never practiced for the reason as he expressed it, that "foot-loose adventures in the woods ruined him for any confined work." Since the age of sixteen he has spent much of his life in the Rocky Mountains and in the Canadian north. For eight years he worked as both woodsman and guide in that region. He has been a United States ranger and still spends part time in the remote districts of the national parks. He wunderstands the frontiers and the folk of the frontiers as very few understand them. His first volume, Many, Many Moons, appeared in 1920. He calls it a book of wilderness poems and such it turns out to be, for it has captured the peculiar thought of the Indian as well as the spiritual values of nature in its untamed aspects. The Box of God, a lengthy poem, was published in 1921. It received the Levinson prize offered for poetry. It became the title poem for a volume in 1922, of which Mr. Untermeyer says, "Even the lyrics echo the wood sounds and scenes which are familiar to the Indian, even though it is not the Indian himself which speaks. Here are flute notes as well as the rattle of dried gourds and the daily insistence of the tom-tom." Sarett's more recent poetry turns to social themes. His volume Slow Smoke, which was issued in 1925, gives a deeper insight into life than do his earlier poems. - Lew Sarett is a married man with children. The volume Slow Smoke is dedicated to his son, Lew Sarett, Jr. He refuses to live in the city of Chicago. He says no place is much more offensive to him than one of the well-known crossings on State Street, Chicago, which has the reputation of being, perhaps, the busiest corner in the world. He and his family hie to the mountains and there in front of a log fire, where the swaying of boughs may be heard and the song of birds, they read wholesome books in a wholesome manner, and are protected from the life of cheap commercial amusement so prevalent in cities. "Four Little Foxes' is one of the poems that expresses his love for the wild things. There is a tenderness that sounds almost as if he were speaking of human kind: Four Little Foxes Speak gently, Spring, and make no sudden sound; For in my windy valley, yesterday I found New-born foxes squirming on the ground— Speak gently. Walk softly, March, forbear the bitter blow; Her feet within a trap, her blood upon the snow, The four little foxes saw their mother go— Walk softly. * GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 571 Go lightly, Spring, oh, give them no alarm; When I covered them with boughs to shelter them from harm The thin, blue, foxes suckled at my arm— Go lightly. ' Step softly, March, with your rampant hurricane; Nuzzling one another, and whimpering with pain, The new little foxes are shivering in the rain— Step softly. "Hang Me Among Your Winds" is a nature poem that breathes the deeply religious feeling of the author. Hanc Me Amonc Your WINpDS Hang me among your winds, O God, Above the tremulous stars, Like a harp of quivering silver strings, Showering, as it swings, Its tuneful bars Of eerie music on the earth. Play over me, God, Your cosmic melodies: The gusty overture for Spring's Caprice and wayward April's mirth; The sensuous serenade - Of summer, languid in the alder glade;. The wistful symphonies Of Autumn; and Winter's rhapsodies ' Among the drifted dunes— Her lullabies and her torrential tunes Moody with wild cadenzas, with fitful stress And poignant soundlessness. "To a Grove of Silver Birches" is another example of his love of nature. To A GROVE OF SILVER BIRCHES Good morning, lovely ladies! I've never seen You half so fair,—I swear; How beautiful your gowns of apple-green! And the ribbons in your hair! What rapture do you await? What coming swain? Such rustling of petticoats! Such wagging of heads and prinking in the rain! Such fluttering at your throats! Dear, winsome vestals, your flurry is no whim. I know your sly design; And why the sap goes pulsing up each limb Sparkling as apple wine. 
 O ladies, trick you in your gala-best; For out of the ardent South, Young April comes with a passion in his breast, And a kiss upon his mouth. His poem "Feud" is suggestive of the clash of life that follows as one creature preys upon another, even though that creature be the hunter. Frup Poor wayworn creature! O sorely harried deer, What drove you, quivering like a poplar-blade, To refuge with my herd? What holds you here Within my meadow, broken and afraid? Tilting your nose to tainted air, you thrill And freeze to wailing wolves! For you the sound Of the coyotes eager for a tender kill? Or yet the baying of the hunter's hound? Let fall your anguish, harried one, and rest; Bed yourself down among your kin, my cattle; Sleep unperturbed, no spoiler shall molest You here this night, for I shall wage your battle. "When the Round Buds Brim" reminds us of the various seasons of the year. WHEN THE RounpD Bups Brim When April showers stain When the frosted leaf swings The hills with mellow rain, Its gold against the sun The quaking aspen tree, And dances ori the bough. So -delicate, so slim, But when in bleak November In glittering wet festoons, The latest web is spun, Is a lovely thing to see— And the gold has turned to dun,— When the round buds brim When winds of winter call And burst their fat cocoons, And the bare tree answers Like caterpillars, clean, As the last leaves fall And cool, and silver-green, Like crumpled moths,—oh, now Uncurling on the limb. How sad it is to look And lovely when September, Upon the leaves in the brook— With magic pigment dyes So many tattered hosts, The aspen stems with wings So many haggard ghosts, Of flimsy butterflies— So many broken dancers. "Let Me Go Down to Dust" is one of Sarett's deeply religious poems. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 573 Let Me Go Down To Dust Let me go down to dust and dreams Gently, O Lord, with never a fear Of death beyond the day that is done; In such a manner as beseems A kinsman of the wild, a son Of stoic earth whose race is run. Let me go down as_any deer, Who, broken by a desperate flight, Sinks down to slumber for the night— Dumbly serene in certitude That it will rise again at dawn, Buoyant, refreshed of limb, renewed, And confident that it will thrill To-morrow to its nuzzling fawn, To the bugle-notes of elk upon the hill. Let me go down to dreams and dust Gently, O Lord, with quiet trust And the fortitude that marks a child Of earth, a kinsman of the wild. Let me go down as any doe That nods upon its ferny bed, And, lulled to slumber by the flow Of talking water, the muffled brawl Of far cascading waterfall, At last lets down its weary head Deep in the brookmints in the glen; And under the starry-candled sky, With never the shadow of a sigh, Gives its worn body back to earth again. Questions and Problems 1, What do you think of the character of the poet from reading his verse? 2. Quote some lines that reveal his tenderness for the dumb creatures. 3. Do you think he has caught the characteristics of the various months he mentions in "When Round Buds Brim?" 4. Are your sympathies aroused for the hunted deer? Do you feel that the poet wishes to help us to love all of God's creatures? 5. Do you think his love for God has been increased by contact with nature and the animals and birds that live in the wilds? If so, why? 
 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE A Few Worps ABouT THE TEXT A unique bit of philanthropy has made possible The Child: His Nature and His Needs, the 500-page volume which the Relief Society has adopted as its text-book for the Child-study Course for the ensuing two years. The book is published by the Children's Foundation of Valparaiso, Indiana, and has been prepared by a number of eminent authorities, under the editorial supervision of Dr. M. V. O'Shea, professor of education at the University of Wisconsin. The book is, without doubt, the most complete survey of present day knowledge concerning child nature and the methods of promoting the well-being and education of the young, that has ever appeared in one volume in our language. The book, which sells for $1.25 postpaid (from. The Relief Society Headquarters), is available for only a small fraction of its actual manufacturing cost, by reason of a large gift made to the Trustees of the Children's Foundation—a non-profit, making corporation chartered by the state of Indiana in 1921. The Children's Foundation has for its objects, we learn, "the study of the child and the dissemination of knowledge promotive of the well-being of children." In the volume referred to, the Foundation has assumed the task of telling the reader "what is wheat and what is chaff" in our present day knowledge of the nature, well-being and education of children. It thus seeks to make this reliable information available to all persons, everywhere, "who are in immediate contact with children, fashioning their intellect; moulding their character, and influencing their physical development."; In the preparation of this volume a large group of experts have collaborated, all with one purpose. At the time each of the specialists was asked to write a chapter on his particular subject: the Foundation said at the outset, "It is expected that you will make a survey of what is known in your special department, and will present this knowledge in such phases and in such form that it can be readily understood and its information appreciated by those who are actually in contact with childhood and youth. It is further expected that you will show how the knowledge which you present related concretely and practically to the every-day problems of dealing with the young." GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 575 The book is written and its material organized on the assumption that a gulf exists between our knowledge of the nature and needs of the young and our practice in their care, training and treatment. That is to say, much more information is available on these subjects than is usually made use of. Hence, the attempt to sum up, interpret and apply the results of the outstanding experiments and investigations of recent years, regarding the nature and needs of childhood and youth, physically, intellectually and morally. The book has three main parts: I, Present status of our knoweldge of child nature (7 chapters). II. Present status of our knowledge of child well-being (8 chapters). III. Present status of our knowledge of education (6 chapters). Each part opens with a chapter entitled, "Bridging the Gap," etc., between our knowledge and our practice. At the end of the volume is an excellent list of books for further reading. There is also an excellent sketch of the life and work of each one of the experts whose separate chapters make up the volume.. Each issue of the Relief Society Magazine will contain one lessonoutline. As far as possible each lesson will cover one entire chapter. LESSON I How Science is Bridging the Gap. The Theory and Practice of Child Training. Based on Chapter I. The Child: His Nature and His Needs. The first of the three parts of our text attempts to sum up and apply our, present knowledge of child nature. It shows how the child's instincts, his intellect, his moral powers and his expressive abilities should be guided, if a strong character and a wholesome personality are to result. The suggestions for teaching and parental guidance are concrete and very practical. The first chapter in Part One, however, is introductory. Some readers may, therefore, find it dry and hard to understand. For those who have not enjoyed the advantages of higher education, or have given little or no previous thought to these subjects, it is recommended that pages 1 to 16 be omitted, and that chapter one be considered as beginning on page 17, the thirteenth line from the top. The author of this chapter, Dr. Bird T. Baldwin, Director of 
 the Iowa Child Welfare Research Station, is one of the most eminent authorities in i world on the nature and problems of the pre-school child,, the child between two and six years. (The reader will do well to read the biographical sketch of Dr. Baldwin which appears on page 489 of the text.) In the event any of our groups are especially interested in this pre-school education movement, it is suggested that they write to Dr. Baldwin at the University of Iowa, Iowa City, for literature on the subject. In this chapter, Dr. Baldwin's main point is: that the "science and practice of child development and training are more intimately associated today than ever before in the history of psychology and education. This means that many far-reaching changes in education will result. We must be sure, therefre; that teachers and parents alike are changing their methods of child training in order to keep pace with this advance. * A. Experiments in Applying the Principles. Individual Development to School Promution. (Pages 17 to 20) Have you ever stopped to think how we all differ from one another in size, strength, appearance, memory, perseverance, rate of learning, and in a thousand or more other different ways? And have you not wondered why, in view of these differences, children are taught in large classes as though they were identical with one another? If individuals differ so widely, why do we not attempt more individual guidance of children, both in and out of school? Perhaps it is because such individual guidance would be too costly. Perhaps it is because teachers and most parents do not fully grasp the meaning of this fact. Certain it is that individual differences are, within certain limits, to be sure, greatly to be encuraged, since society places a premium upon originality and offers large rewards in money and prestige to those who possess it. The school and the teacher, however, have not been slow to' recognize the need for permitting the child to learn at his own best rate and to develop in those directions in which he has original talent. Many excellent experiments have been performed, and are still in progress, which seek to point out how best to organize the school so as to permit of this individualized guidance and training. It is to these experiments, described in the text as the Dalton plan, the Batavia plan, the Winnetka plan, etc., that the reader's atention is called. J aa 2 GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 577 Questions 1. What are the main points about these plans just referred to? How do they differ from. One another? 2. Are any of these, or other similar experiments, being tried in your community? Make it a point to enquire of your local superintendent or principal on this point. They will welcome your interest in the matter, you may be assured. B. The Open Mind and the Spirit of Inquiry. (Pages 20 to 22) "During the next decade we must look, in the main, to experimental education and educational practice as the chief sources for the discovery and formulation of new principles," says Dr. Baldwin. That is to say, what is sound in child-training must be a matter of fact and no longer a matter of opinion. The science of education is thus attempting to guide us out of the realm of practice based upon tradition and rule-of-thumb, to a system of child-training based upon verified principles. It was Pestalozzi and Froebel, as the author points out, who first taught us how to test and prove our theories in education. Since the time of these men, however, there has developed what might be called an "experimental tradition" in education; the spirit and practice of trying out new ideas and testing their worth. So strong has this tradition become that many schools which were formerly called "training schools," are now called "laboratory schools." That is, instead of merely training teachers how to" teach, these schools are now experimenting under laboratory (i. E. Scientific) conditions with the "what to teach" and the "how to teach." The outstanding laboratory schools in the United States are referred to and briefly described by the author. From this description the reader will gain some idea of the splendid work that now is going on in this field. It is not to much to hope that each state, sooner or later. Will maintain, at least one laboratory school, in order to contribute to the general movement and to study local problems. This, we understand, is the purpose of the William M. Stewart School at the University of Utah, and the Training School at the Brigham Young University. Questions 1. Give an example or two of child-training practice based on opinion, and one or two based on fact. 578 - 
. What is meant by the author's statement (page 22) that _ "our laboratory schools of today are based on the principles of cooperative research and cooperative training"? C. Physical Development and School Progress. (Pages 22 to 30) The basis of a strong character and a wholesome personality is a normal, healthy body. Teachers and parents know this, even though they sometimes neglect it. It has long been agreed that the best single index of good health and nutrition in childhood is the weight and height of the child for his age. Dr. Baldwin and Dr. Thomas D. Wood have made it easy for parents and teachers to ascertain how a given child compares with other children in this matter, by consulting the weight-height-age tables for boys and girls up to 19 years of age, on pages 24 and 25 of the text. Every reader with children will therefore do well to measure and weigh her children, according to the method described in the text (page 26) and to satisfy herself in regard to such danger signs as excessive over and under weight. Too long has the school determined a child's promotion and his mental development by the number of years he has lived. It is an established fact that some children mature faster, and some slower than the majority. This being true, children should be graded in school according to their combined chronological age, rather than upon one of these alone. It has been determined scientifically that the degree of physical maturity has a great deal to do with mental development and the ability to do school work. Dr. Baldwin's results indicate clearly that as a general rule good mental development accompanies good physical growth during childhood. Dr. Lewis M. Terman, of Stanford University, recently announced similar results following an exhaustive study of genius, viz., that mentally superior children are more often physically superior than children of average mentality. Questions 1. Wherein is it sound (or unsound) to recommend that tall, well-developed children be promoted "as rapidly as thoroughness and educational accomplishments will permit"? What are the dangers of "double-promotions," "repeating a grade," etc.? Discuss local instances of this practice. 2. What is the basis of grading pupils in the schools of your community? If you do not know, ask your local principal. \\ Clean Foods No firm should be permitted to serve foods to the Public who fails to adhere to a rigid policy of sanitation in equipment, display, handling and selling.. To be able to secure meats and groceries kept and sold under strict sanitary conditions, is surely a _ great privilege. Every O. P. Skaggs System patron enjoys this rare protection. Address: P. O. Box 2, Salt Lake City, Utah. 0. P SKAGGS Officient Service System ay y) Baerence Books-- Let us help you with your class work. Reference books that you are using in your class work and that you need to make your class work a success may be found in our stock. If 'we haven't them in stock we will be glad to order them at the same price. May we be of service to you Deseret Book Company 44 East on South Temple When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ('r IT PAYS TO BE PROTECTED! $18,010.10 Paid to Date $15,000.00 in Death Claims; $3,010.10 in Disability Claims $7,500.00 Teaalrzster™ Se" $1.00 We offer to old and new subscribers this unusual protection. Accidents happen every day. For your own protection and the protection of your family Insure today. Now is the time to renew policy taken out a year ago. Certain benefits, if policy is renewed before lapsing, carry a 10 per cent increase. Che Deseret News SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH WY 7) Special Sale of VANITY Full Fashioned Hosiery 42 GAUGE, OF FINEST SILK An all over silk chiffon stocking—a real $1.95 value at the special price of $1.59. Box of three pair $4.55. Extra heavy service weight, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.95, special price of $1.59, a box of three pair $4.55. A semi-chiffon stocking, silk to welt. Mercerized heel and toe. A real value at $1.85, special price $1.49, box of three pair $4.25. All new goods. All the new fall shades. Mail orders filled. On sale. Glazier & Taylor Hosiery Co. 33 East Broadway VANITY HOSIERY SHOPPE 22 East Broadway (- When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Two Good Coals A hot, long-lasting fire—from KING, the hardest soft coal mined. A quick-starting, free-burning fire from PANTHER. Try these famous coals. Mined exclusively by the United States Fuel Co. Largest Producers of Domestic Coal in Utah. The Utah Milk for all People Leads For many uses it takes the place of cream at about onethird the cost. It is always safe, pure and convenient. Ask for Sego Milk and be sure you get what you ask for. The years to come. All other occasions. Electrical Christmas Gifts Have this Definite Virtue— There is a wide variety to choose from and you may be certain of pleasing men and women, boys and girls. Even a dollar will buy an acceptable gift. An Electrical Gift is enduring—they retain their beauty and newness. Their usefulness never passes, They remain as a pleasing reminder of the giver through There is always unmistakable good taste in gixing electrical ware at Christmas, for birthdays, for weddings—and on UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. The Electric Gift Shop When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine = COLD WEATHER WILL SOON BE HERE! How about that Nationally Advertised Round Oak Moistair Heating System you were going to have installed? Ask any of our 2,000 satisfied customers in Salt Lake City and you will buy no other. Less Fuel—More Heat—Wear Longer. See the JENKINS FURNACE now on display in show rooms-—— used continuously for 38 years and still in good condition. FREE ESTIMATES AS TO COST OF INSTALLATION "Trade With Your Friends" Modern Furniture Co. 234 SOUTH STATE PHONES: WASATCH 7187 WASATCH 6205 C. E. Davey, Manager the feliable (r 1253 SOUTH 9% EAST L. DLS. GARMENTS Buy our Pre-Shrunk Garments They Wear the Longest and Fit the Best No. L. N. S. O. 54 Bleached med. Cotton $1.75 $1 56 Unbleach. Med. Cotton..1.75 3 2 58 Unbleach. Hvy. Cotton.. 1.75 64 Fine Lisle.................--..- 104 Fine Ravon Silk..........5.00 Samples Sent on Request ——<—<$"g SALT LAKE COSTUME CO. 835 W. 3°! $0.4 hy N Gis Merit Bread Best Quality and Full Weight Utah Products Used Exclusively In Our Bakery When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Edward E. Jenkins, President Orr Sw! Se Jesse B. Sharp, Vice-President; RY /¥ bid) es ai In 7g | One Hour Peet Gee a Do Your Wash Do This—Then You'll§Be Sure Phone for a Maytag. Wash with it free—you don't have to keep it unless you want it. But prove to yourself that the Maytag makes washdays easier—by washing faster—washing cleaner than other washers. Tubfuls in 3 to 7 minutes—whole washings—50 Ibs. Of dry clothes in an hour. Try it—if it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO. Distributors Aluminum Washer i 7 Enroit Now \3 No increase in tuition rates at Utah's Oldest and Best Commercial School L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE New Classes Being Formed Daily Night and Day Sessions Get the Best for the Least Cost LO. S, Business College When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No hand-rubbing of anything—even collar and cuff edges. 
 SALT LAKE CITY MRS FRANCES DALY ¢ | PANGUITCH UTAH PEPPER WET CONTENTS & Jiste Tlaagy | BOTTLED VINEGAR OLIVE OIL The season for pastry, cakes and candy is at hand—Blue Pine food products | are guaranteed to please you or your money back Say BLUE PINE To Your Grocer When Buying Mention Reltef Society Magazine Vol. XIV NOVEMBER, 1927 No. 11 x CONTENTS Arizona Temple Frontispiece Friendship Elsie C. Carrol 527 Visitors Thronged the Portals of the Arizona Temple Fay Ollerton, M. A. 529 Thanksgiving Henderson 532 Inez Knight Allen Ida Peterson Beal Genevieve Thornton Woman Custom-Head Pleads Right Living.... 542 Editorial?Grandsons of the Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon