A QUIET HOME WEDDING.
	“ Love’s History as Life’s is ended not
	By marriage.”
	"Marriage is the life-long miracle,
	The self-begetting wonder, daily fresh."
	At the residence of Hon. and Mrs. I. M.
Sears, Thorndyke, East Waterloo, on Tues-
day, December 29, 1896 at 5.45 p. m.,
Miss Isabel Sears and Mr. Charles William
F. Buchholz were united in marriage.
	On account of Mr. and Mrs. Sears being
detained in Chicago because of the illness
of their daughter Emma, the affair was
quiet and only a few guests, near relatives
were present.
	The parlors were tastefully decorated
with holly and red carnations, symbols of
holiday time, and it is needless to add the
bride was charming in old rose silk trimmed
with chiffon and lace, and carried white
roses. Her uncle, Gen. John Q. Cannon,
gave her away, and her, cousin Bishop
Orson F. Whitney solemnized the marriage,
which made the bride and bridegroom hus-
band and wife. The ceremony was
very impressive and the eloquent words of
the Bishop were like a sweet Psalm set to
music.
	Congratulations and pleasant conversa-
tion followed and at seven p. m. dinner
was announced. The table decorations
were lovely, besides the holly and carna-
tions there were vases of magnificent pink
and white roses, that added enjoyment to
the feast. While the party were still at
table a telegram was received from the
parents of the bride in Chicago, of love,
blessing and congratulations, with regrets
that they could not be present; reference to the
time proved that the dispatch had been written
at almost the exact moment that the cere-
mony of marriage was taking place.
	The party at dinner besides the bride and
bridegroom were Bishop Whitney, Mrs.
E.B. Wells, Gen. John Q. Cannon and
wife, Mr. and Mrs Fred Horne and
daughter (cousins of the bridegroom,) Miss
Sears, the bride’s sister, and two of her
brothers, Eugene and Brenton.
	The evening was very agreeably spent in
conversation and music, vocal and instru-
mental.
‘‘Love; what a volume in a word, an ocean in a
	tear,
A seventh heaven in a glance, a whirlwind in a
	sigh,
The lightning in a touch, a millenium in a moment
What concentrated joy or woe in blest or
	blighted love.”
Mr. Buchholz has been some years in
Utah, though formerly from Wisconsin;
he is at present connected with the Com-
mercial National Bank in this city,
and is well and favorably known in
business and in society here.
	The bride is a Utah girl and is the
grand-daughter on the maternal side of the
late Bishop Newel K. Whitney who was
one of the founders of Utah. Miss Sears is
herself particularly well known not only in
society in Salt Lake, but as her father’s
assistant in the Chamber of Commerce
when he was Secretary of that board, and
also in the office of the EXPONENT where
she has been employed as manager for the
last five years, whenever the editor has
been absent, and assisting more or less at
all times in the different departments,
of editorial and other work on the paper.
Miss Sears was also Secretary of the Wo-
man’s Republican League of the Territory
for some time.
	The EXPONENT extends most sincere con-
gratulations, and wishes to the newly
married couple, long life and a happy and
prosperous voyage on the fair sea of matri-
mony.
“The joys of marriage are the heaven on earth,
Life’s paradise, great princess, the souls quiet
Sinews of concord, earthly immortality,
Eternity of pleasures.',


