AN OFFERING OF LOVE.

	IN loving remembrance of the first anniversary
of the death of Sister Ann Roberts Griffiths,
who departed this life Dec. 26, 1895 at Union,
Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	We feel that her dear name should be recorded
within the sacred folds of the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT, which she so dearly loved to read. As a
life sketch was printed in the Deseret News at the
time of her death, we will only mention a few of
the noble traits of her character.
	Sister Griffith embraced the truth in her native
land, the only one in the family who obeyed the
Gospel. She made many sacrifices for the Gos-
pel’s sake, one of which was in tearing herself
away from a loving mother who fainted when
her daughter bade her good bye to cast her lot
with the people ot God. Sister Griffith always
wept when she related this sad parting.
	She was the mother of fifteen children, six of
whom are now living. She was a widow 35
years. She held the marriage covenant with her
husband sacred. Her devoted sons were always
her dearest companions. After her family had
grown up, she devoted her life to the care of the
sick night and day without money and without
price, sacrificing her own comfort continually for
the good of others; a more kind and loving hand
never soothed the aching head than the hand of
Sister Griffith. One of the most beautiful traits
of her character was her love for little children; 
they would flock around her and she wonld al-
ways have time to speak to them in her kind lov-
ing way. Many were the tears shed by the little
ones when she was called to leave them. Her
love was great for her sisters in the Relief Soci-
ety, she held the office of Counselor to Sister
Elizabeth Richards, they were united in love.
She dearly loved and cherished the counsels of
our beloved Sister Eliza R. Snow. When at the
Temple a year before her death, Sister Zina D.
Young placed her arms arouud her and blessed
her; she testified it was as an angel’s blessing,
more than gold to her. The writer feels to ex-
claim,
		“Little deeds of kindness
			Little words of love,
		Makes our earth an Eden,
			Like the Heaven above.”
	Sister Griffith loved the Gospel, was acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and testified of
the great power that he posessed; she saw the
dead bodies of the Prophet and his brother
Hyrum, after they were martyred for the truth,
and often spoke of the universal sadness which
prevailed at that time. She was driven from her
home in Nauvoo, and shared in the hardships and
persecutions of the Saints at that time. She en-
dured to the end and has gone to meet her loved
ones, who are many.
	Oh, what could be more valuable
		Than treasures laid in Heaven
	Where moth and rust cannot corrupt
		And thieves no place are given.
	The precious gold, the diamonds rare,
		On earth their homage claiming
	Yet with eternal endless life
		Compared, they’re not worth naming.


What are these treasures, rich and rare
	Which gold can never purchase?
It is the acts of mortal life
	The fruits of earnest workers.
To cool the fevered, aching brow,
	To cheer the heart of sorrow;
Unselfish in the smallest act
	Nor think not of tomorrow.
To live a life of sacrifice
	That’s full of love and sweetness;
Be firm to every covenant made
	Seek charity and meekness.
Sweet Ann these treasures rich and rare,
	To you by God are given
A crown of glory awaits you there
	Eternal life in Heaven.
