SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
Editor Woman's Exponent;
	The semi-annual Relief Society Confer-
ence of the Snowflake Stake was held at
Taylor, Nov. 28, ’96.
	On account of sickness the attendance
was small, but that did not in the least pre-
vent the flow of the Holy Spirit. The day
was cold and clear and those who came
from a distance were delighted to find the
meeting house warm and comfortable.
	Only four statistical and financial reports
had been sent in, but the few presidents
and counselors that were present gave very
encouraging verbal reports.
	The teachings were such as to awaken a
new interest in the Relief Society work and
inspire all with the belief that the presiding
sisters were faithful and sincere in their en-
deavors to perform the great work required
of them.

[Column 2]
	The training of the children was the
most important topic dwelt upon by the
sisters. The restoration of the Gospel, the
gifts of the Gospel and other subjects were
touched upon in a very pleasing manner.
	President Jesse N. Smith complimented
the sisters on their good work and said
they treasured up their faith somewhat like
we put money in a bank and can draw from
it as occasion demands. Was thankful for
the willingness of the sisters and for their
knowledge of the efficacy of prayer, said
there could be no doubt but that the Sa-
vior’s choicest moments were spent with
Mary, Mary Magdalen and others. Con-
ference adjourned for six months.
	DELLA FISH, Stake Secretary.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, held in
the 14th ward Assembly Hall, Dec. 19,
1896, President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. Present on the stand were Counselors
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon, Sis-
ters B. W. Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W.
Wilcox and L. D. Alder. Singing “Lord
we come before thee now;”prayer by M.
W. Wilcox; singing “We thank Thee O,
God for a Prophet.” Resignation of Mar-
garet A. Caine read and accepted and Mar-
garet Y. Taylor sustained as her successor.
Roll called, treasurer’s report read and
minutes of last Conference read and
approved.
	President Horne welcomed the sisters
and rejoiced to see them, spoke on the
calamities abroad, said the Lord was merci-
ful to His children here in the chambers of
the mountains, refered to the Semi-Centen-
nial, compared the different circumstances
that had taken place in fifty years, urged
upon the several branches of the Relief
Society to look after the poor, thought the
Presidents should be mothers to their
wards; we were a progressive people and
should not stand still when so much good
could be accomplished. We cannot serve
“God and Mammon.” We must not neg-
lect our duties or we will come under con-
demnation, made other timely and instruct-
ive remarks.
	Sister Francis spoke in behalf of the Wo-
man’s Co-operative store, said she desired
to make the store a success, was willing to
make any article that anyone would want
and as reasonable; hoped the sisters would
patronize it, would like to raise five hundred
dollars just now and hoped the sisters
would take some shares, said she had enjoy-
ed the good spirit that was here, and prayed
God to bless all. President Horne spoke
again in behalf of the store and said she
felt the day would come when such a store
would be needed among us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor felt as earnest as ever
in the Relief Society work. The progress
of the Relief Society had been great and to
ourselves it had done good, we were better
Latter-day Saints when we attended to our
duties, and our hearts turned with a desire
to look after the poor. Refered to the
benefit in reading in our society meetings
the church works, spoke on the Stake
officers being invited to visit the various
wards and stir the associations up by their
presence and good counsel, we all needed
the Holy Spirit to aid us, prayed for God
to bless each and every one.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said it was a
feast for her to listen to the sisters speak
that had been so valiant in the cause, was

[Column 3]
pleased to hear the store spoken of, and the
new management. Prayed for strength to
be firm and faithful in our lives to the end.
Conference adjourned till 2 o’clock. Sing-
ing “Do what is right;” dismissed by Sis-
ter Mary S. Clark.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock,
singing “O, say what is truth;” prayer
by Sister L. D. Alder; singing “Where
the voice of friendship’s heard.”
	On the stand were Counselor Joseph E.
Taylor of the Stake Presidency and Elder
George Goddard, Bishop G. H. Taylor and
Counselor T. E. Taylor. President Horne
gave a few words of welcome to the breth-
ren, Sister B. W. Smith made a few re-
marks and Georgianna F. Young spoke in
behalf of the Kindergarten and its benefit
to the young, hoped the sisters would come
to their aid by taking a membership.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said our object in
coming together was to do each other good,
gave her support to the kindergarten work,
hoped our spiritual nature would be fed.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde thought the Re-
lief Society work the best of all our institu-
tions as its requirements were to look after
the poor, had attended recently the Sanpete
Relief Society conference, and their reports
were fine, they had made seventy-five yards
of cloth in Spring City for the poor besides
other things quilts, stockings etc., felt the
young women as well as the older sisters
should take an interest in Relief Society
work.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of her love and
interest in the society work and made other
interesting remarks.
	Sister Julia C. Howe spoke of the great
blessing the Relief Society had been to her,
felt to give her support to the Kindergarten
work.
	Sister Stevenson bore a strong testimony
to the Gospel and her love for the Relief
Society.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor said he was heart
and soul in the Relief Society work, also
gave his hearty support to the Kinder-
garten, spoke on the evils that were creep-
ing into our midst and made an earnest
appeal to the mothers in looking after their
children.
	Elder George Goddard spoke on the
change in our fast day, and the good that
would result from that change. Sang
“Let us gather up the sunbeams.”
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks and Conference was adjourned for
three months. Singing Doxology; bene-
diction by Bishop G. H. Taylor.
	MARGARET Y. TAYLOR, Sec.
WEBER STAKE.
	THE Weber Stake Relief Society met in
Conference December 10, 1896, in the
Third Ecclesiastical ward meeting house,
President Jane S. Richards presiding.
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Ferrin.
President Jane S. Richards was pleased to
have the privilege of meeting so many of
her brethren and sisters in Conference.
She said she had great confidence in the
priesthood, felt the sisters were doing all
they could to help the sick and needy in
their different associations, that she never
had any trouble in getting the sisters to
turn out and do their part. She often com-
pared the first organization of the Relief
Society with those of today, and thought
they were growing spiritually as well as in
numbers. Said we certainly are better
prepared to help the poor than we were in
years gone by, was desirous of hearing


[Column 1]
from the many sisters who were present, as
most of them had come a long distance.
She said that to look at the stand, one
would almost think that they were holding
a priesthood meeting, as so many of the
bishops and brethren were present.
	The next speaker was Counselor Hattie
C. Brown, who said she felt we were indeed
a blessed people to have the privilege of
meeting together so often, and felt en-
couraged to see the interest taken in the
Relief Society work. She believed all felt
it a pleasure as well as a duty to comfort
and bless those who are in need, and was
very pleased to see our old friend, Sister
Emily S. Richards with us this morning.
She said she loved to meet with the sisters,
and felt sure they would have a good meet-
ing.
	Sister Jeanette Bingham said she was
thankful that she could bear the same testi-
mony today that she had always borne, and
that she loved Relief Society work. The
Lord had blessed her in giving her strength
sufficient to attend to her labors.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, of Salt Lake
City, next addressed the meeting. She
said it always gave her pleasure to meet
with her sisters in Ogden, where she first
began her Relief Society work, also her
work with the young ladies. It carried her
back to the time when Sister Eliza R.
Snow used to come and visit the sisters and
bless them so abundantly with words of
great wisdom. She told Bishop McQuarrie
this morning how disappointed she felt
when she found that Sister Zina Young
was not on the train. He said, “never
mind Sister Emily, you are in the house of
your friends.” She could not tell how
much she had appreciated Bishop Mc-
Quarrie’s encouraging words during her
labors with the young women of Ogden.
She was glad that a number of our young
women had joined the Relief Society, they
would be greatly benefited by mingling
with their older sisters. If we are to be
judged by thought, word and deed how
very careful we should be especially in
these times, was pleased to see that so many
bishops could take time to meet with the
sisters in Conference, and appreciate the
good work they did in visiting the widows
and fatherless, felt it a pity that more of the
young sisters could not meet with the sis-
ters of the Relief Society, as they would be
greatly benefited by so doing.
	Brother D. H. Peery next addressed the
sisters in his usual pleasing manner, giving
them excellent counsel. He spoke en-
couragingly of the labors of the sisters, and
said that he loved to attend their meetings.
Said he had been greatly impressed by the
list of delinquent tax payers, said the peo-
ple had thought that it was their enemies
that would bring them into bondage, but
that they had brought it upon themselves
by living beyond their means and running in
debt. That he could remember when it
took very little to satisfy the people in this
territory, but it was not so now. He said
he was not much of a speaker, and could
not say beautiful things like the sisters, but
he tried to speak the truth in his abrupt
way, and all the sisters knew that D. H.
Peery was no hypocrite, he told the truth
whether people liked it or not. He enjoy-
ed these Conferences, and thanked Sister
Richards for inviting him to attend.
	Counselor Charles F. Middleton also
[-]poke in praise of the work of the sisters.
[-]aid he had known Sister Emily Richards

[Column 2]
for many years and was proud of her work
among the sisters. Said we all know and
appreciate Brother Peery’s good qualities,
for they are many. He has been a great
benefactor to Weber county.
	Sister Lightner said, although she could
not hear she enjoyed coming to the meet-
ings, for the Spirit of the Lord was here.
Our Relief Society was organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was inspired
from on high. She was glad that she had
had the privilege of listening to the
Prophet Joseph Smith. She desired to live
the life of a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	President Jane S. Richards said there
would be a lunch served in the building, of
which all were invited to partake.
	After prayer, the meeting adjourned till
two o'clock.
	The afternoon session opened with sing-
ing and prayer. Roll called and eleven
presidents present.
	Sister Sarah Hunt, Adaline Belnap and
Mary Ann Wallace gave very encouraging
reports of their associations.
	Sister Mary McQuarrie said that she had
joined the Relief Society because the
younger sisters had been invited to do so,
and had been greatly blessed in meeting
with the sisters. She said we cannot al-
ways tell where our duty lies, but by ask-
ing the Lord to point out those who are in
distress, either mentally or physically, we
will be led to the right people. “I am
sure if more of our young people would
come to these meetings they would enjoy
them.”
	Brother F. S. Richards addressed the sis-
ters for a short time. He said he was
pleased to be invited to meet with his
Ogden friends, and it gave him pleasure to
think of the time when he worked in the
missionary field with his brethren in Weber
county, some of whom are present and
some have passed away. He spoke words
of encouragment to the sisters and said the
Lord would bless them in their labors and
show them where to go when they were in
doubt as to who were needing help. Said
he could bear testimony that his mother’s
health had improved since she had been
connected with Relief Society work, and he
prayed that the sisters might continue in
their labors of love.
	The authorities of the association were
presented and sustained, and after singing,
and benediction by Bishop Dye, Conference
was adjourned for three monthis. 
	SEC. pro tem.


