RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS adopted by the officers and mem-
bers of the Kanosh Relief Society in memory of
their beloved President, Sister Adelia A. Kimball,
who departed this life after a lingering illness,
October 19, 1896, being 68 years, 7 months and 16
days old. She was the daughter of Catharine and
Eber Wilcox, and was born in Shandgo county,
New York. She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years old.
	She first married William Hatton who was kill-
ed by Indians at Fillmore, which left her a widow
with three small children; she was afterwards
married to President Heber C. Kimball and lived
in his family until her daughter Mary Eliza was
married to Abraham Kimball with whom she re-
sided until her death. She has endured many
trials and persecutions for the Gospel’s sake but
was never heard to murmur or complain. She
was of a kind and gentle disposition, was full of
charity and always had a word of comfort for the
sick and afflicted. She was never known to en-
dorse a slander or encourage gossip.


January 1, 1875 she was chosen President of
the Relief Society of Kanosh ward and for nearly
twenty-two years has labored faithfully in that
capacity; she was well qualified for that position
being a woman who had a great reverence for the
Priesthood, and her presence brought with it
an influence of peace.
	She was conscious to the last and called her
children and grandchildren around her bed and
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel, urging them to be true and steadfast in the
work of God, then passed peacefully away. The
cause of her demise was catarrh of the head and
stomach and she suffered greatly. The funeral
was under the direction of the members of the
Relief Society and was beautifully conducted.
Be it therefore,
	RESOLVED, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our beloved President and sister to her
heavenly home, that we desire to emulate her
noble example and that we herewith express our
heartfelt sympathy for her children and grand-
children. Be it further
	RESOLVED That these resolutions be placed on
the records of the society and a copy sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	ELEANOR RAPPLEYE, First Conunselor.
	ALICE J. RAPPLEYE, Secretary.


