THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS IN BER-
LIN.

	I CANNOT help saying it was a success,
and in the interest of the woman question I
am compelled to proclaim it. Do not think
that we attribute the success entirely to the
ability of our committee; it is chiefly the
spirit of the time—the great progress which
the woman question has made in Germany
during the last few years—which made a
success of the Congress. What we would
not have dared to hope a few years ago
happened—the Town Council granted us
the privilege of holding our meeting in the
most beautiful Town Hall (Rathhaussaal)
and thousands of women and men—women
of course in the majority—congregated to
the assemblies, hundreds being obliged to
turn away for want of room, in spite of the
enormous size of the hall. On two large
tables, reporters, ladies and gentlemen
worked day by day unceasingly and pro-
vided thousands of newspapers all over the
world with reports from the Congress,
which were eagerly read by women of all
classes and of all nations.
	During the seven day’s Congress nearly all
subjects connected with the woman question
were touched, and not a single one lacked
interest. The foreign delegates were
agreeably surprised at the coolness and
cleverness with which the German women
delivered their speeches from the platform; to


but there is no denying the fact that
agreeably as they were surprised, ours was
the good fortune to be enchanted by the
magnificent and splendid speeches deliver-
ed by the foreign, especially by the English
and American delegates.
	Let me mention first of all Mrs. Ormis-
ton Chant, who gave us. in her musical
voice, a most interesting account of the
temperance question; Mrs. Belva Lock-
wood, the well known attorney, who spoke
in an exceedingly interesting manner on
the political rights of women in the United
States; Mrs. Kirkbride of Philadelphia,
Miss French of Washington, Baroness
Gripenberg of Finland, Dr. Maria Popelin
of Brussels.
	It would be encroaching upon your space
if I were to give all names who contributed
towards its success; we are thankful to
each of them.
			ELIZA ICHENHAUSER.
Berlin.
		—English Woman's Review


