THE MODERN ESTHER.

	SHE has come, no mistake about that.
And she has come to the kingdom too, and
reigns a queen. The world has had its age
of bronze, its age of iron and of gold, some
affirm that this is the age of paper, others
call it the age of silver, but this is pre-em-
inently the age of woman. Deborah has
arisen, Joan of Arc has taken the field—and
Esther has mounted the throne.

[Column 2]
Men may be reluctant and
must of stern necessity bow to the inevi-
table. Women are pressing their way into
almost every profession and into places once
monopolized by men. They have long
been demanding equal opportunities of
higher education, and now the foremost
universities in the world are rejoicingly
welcoming them. And we have not been
informed of any calamitous consequences
following which the pessimistic prophets
predicted. Woman cannot get away from
herself, and so long as she is what she is
we have no grave apprehensions that the
relation of the sexes will be radically alter-
ed. Yet without unsexing herself or
violating any of the cherished proprieties,
she is undoubtedly coming to the front.
A quaint old preacher commenting upon
the saying of our Lord “She hath done
what she could,” very pithily added,
“Yes and she has done what she thought
she couldn’t.”
	An overwhelming majority of church
members all over the civilized world are
women and the great bulk of the work is
done by the women; the visitation of
the sick, the clothing of the poor, the teach-
ing of the Sunday and mission schools,
industrial school work, Hospital work,
homes for the friendless, refuges for erring
women, orphanages, all manner of chari-
table institutions. If woman was foremost
in the fall, she is first and foremost in every
enterprise that has for its object the uplift-
ing of humanity and the glory of God.
Women are banding themselves together
for assisting in the world’s evangelization
both at home and abroad, organizing
training schools for the purpose of sending
out Bible readers by the hundreds, raising
money by the hundred thousand, and
thousands have administered these affairs 
with an energy and ability that has fairly
put the men to shame. It is evident that
the Great All Father is calling out all the
reserves and marshalling them for the last
decisive conflict,—the millions of stalwart
men, the women a mighty host, and the
badged and bannered young people flushed
with enthusiasm and girded with high re-
solve for noble deeds. All hail to all of
these moving armies! and if any pessimis-
tic looker on is afraid that somebody will
go too far, let him fall into line and begin
marching on, keeping step with time and it
will not be very long before he will find
himself fearing that nobody will go half far
enough.
						L. M. H.


