TIONS.

	THE one main subject in which the peo-
ple of Utah (and we speak advisedly when
we say the women of Utah) should be
specially interested at the present time is
home industries, and foremost among these
is sericulture. We are fully aware that
there are some women who have seemingly
strained every nerve to raise cocoons, and
have become more or less if not quite dis-
couraged because there seemed no remuner-
ation, but there is now a good prospect for
the future in this direction. There has
been a commission of five persons appointed
by the Governor to look after the matter,
and they are reliable women who will do
the very utmost that can be done to further
the silk interest in Utah; but it remains
with the people to do their share and to
furnish the material. Enough has been
accomplished here in the raising of silk to
prove that it might with some fostering and
encouragement become a profitable industry.
	It is of little use to sit down and com-
plain of hard times and lack of employment
when the state abounds in resources that
might by diligent perseverance and united
effort be developed into paying products.
Looking over the ground, silk really seems
the easiest of all the industries to manage.
The eggs being procured, the cocoons can be
raised wherever food for the worms
can be obtained.
	Mulberry trees consequently leaves are
very abundant in many parts of the state
and especially so in Salt Lake City and
County, and it is not too soon even now for
those who wish to engage in sericulture to
commence planning for it.
	It is not at all unlikely that there will an
experiment station established here in the
near future, and even if not, silk raised and
reeled at home, if the work is first class can
always find a market. The reels for this
purpose are small and light and the work
is very simple and easy to learn. It does
not require the time nor incur the expense
that dress-making and millinery and many
other things do. It is said by those who
have had some experience with the silk
worms that this employment is quite fasci-
nating. At any rate the women of Utah
have always believed silk raising might be
made a permanent business success here,
because the climate and all other conditions
are particularly favorable.
	In places where there are not mulberry

[Column 2]
trees the people should procure the cuttings
early and set them out in rows by the
ditches, and the young, tender leaves are
said to be best and make a finer fabric than
when the leaves are old and tough. The
silk worms are more fond of crisp, tender
leaves naturally, and the leaves are more
easily gathered from the young shrubs than
from the trees.
	We shall be very glad to have correspon-
dence sent upon this subject for publication,
from those who have had experience and
who can give valuable information in this
class of work.

	Another very important subject we as a
people should consider and try to under-
stand is the Kindergarten; and to the
mind of the writer the training received by
means of this simple but wonderful method
of instruction will be conducive to all home
industries, as well as to those gentle and
attractive qualities that adorn domestic life
and embellish the home. We hear constant
ly all depends upon the mothers and the
home, and that is the mother’s province,
whether the children are well trained to be-
come useful members of society and good
citizens; if so much rests upon mothers,
then they too should have a little help in 
the way of suggestion, and the kindergar-
ten gives just this needed assistance- Moth-
ers in general are overworked, their strength
is more than absorbed by the little ones, a 
kindergarten teacher takes the little ones
for a short time and the mother not only
has the great relief of feeling the children
are cared for, but knows they are being
taught to think, observe and act properly.
	If parents could only realize how advan-
tageous the kindergarten training is to the
child, it would not be long before it would
be introduced into all the public schools.
But the growth of sentiment on this sub-
ject seems very slow, and very little has
really been done to reach the entire people.
If mothers would visit these schools and
see and hear the children, they would be-
come interested and enter into the spirit of
the teaching; they never can by standing
afar off and denouncing it. Some very
strenuous exertions have been and are being
made by a few to start these schools, and a
membership to the Association of fifty
cents a year from individual members to
assist in the work; but the people are slow
to respond; and yet what is as much conse-
quence as the children’s proper training?
Habits of industry are gained in this way,
and these are essential to a good life. The
old saying that Satan finds mischief for idle
hands, is true; and in a community where
children abound as they do throughout
these valleys, it is important that measures
be taken to give the children upon the
streets, the benefit of such training as will
keep them from vice, and help them to earn
a livelihood as soon as they are old enough
to get employment; nothing will help them
so much in this regard as kindergarten
training, and it is not tiresome, but on the
contrary a kind of pleasure, so that the child
does not get weary, nor dislike the school-
room.

	ON Monday, January 11, the Utah Legis-
lature will meet in this City and something
new under the sun, Solomon to the con-
trary notwithstanding—Utah will have
the first women Senator in the United
States, although Wyoming and Colorado
have had woman Legislators in the House,

[Column 3]
women Judges and women on juries.
it is a distinction of which Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon may justly be proud. In
the House will be Mrs. Eurithe La Barthe,
of Salt Lake County and Mrs. Sarah A.
Anderson, of Weber County, all active and
comparatively young women, therefore it is
only reasonable to expect that some good
suggestions will be made and effectual work
in such interests as pertain to women and
the family especially.
 	In Millard Co. we are informed a wo-
man, Mrs. Delilah K. Olsen, was elected
Co. Recorder by the Democratic party, and
Mrs. Ellen Jakeman Treasurer in Utah Co.:
in Box Elder Co. Miss Fannie Graehl was
elected Co. Recorder by the Republican
party. We are not aware of any other wo-
men having been elected, but trust that
there are gthers in the state.
	Women have done excellent work in the
Legislature of Colorado, and also in Wyom-
ing and the Superintendant of Public
nstruction in Wyoming is certainly one of
the most brilliant women we have ever had
the pleasure of meeting, Miss Estelle Reel.
Although we do not expect the millennium
to come because women vote, yet we do
hope and anticipate that some change for
the better will ensue, now that women are
on an equal platform with men in legal
matters in the State.


