WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
UTAH.

STILL shall New England classic hills be dear,
Where’er the children of the pilgrims go; 
Her sacred name our hearts shall still revere
Her story fill us with responsive glow.
Where smooth Potomac’s placid waters flow, 
Virginia’s stately homes in beauty rise—
Beloved for him who taught the world to know
His country's freedom is the patriot's prize,
Not dearly bought, though won with costliest
	sacrifice.

The downy peaches waft their fruity breath
From sun-kissed orchards of the Delaware;
And flowers that know no winter’s icy death,
Garland the plains of Florida the fair;
’Neath California’s skies of beauty rare,
Her yellow poppies nod and roses twine;
Sweet scent of orange-blooms perfumes the air,
And amber clusters load the fragrant vine—
Each sphere of chalice filled with sweet, trans-
	lucent wine.

Fair was the heritage our father’s bought,
Stretching o’er hill and vale, from sea to sea;
Each new-born state some separate charm has
	brought,
Some grace distinctive, as its birth-right fee.
From Maine’s cold pine-woods, where the winds
	blow free,
And whistling, rivet tyrant winter’s chains.
The sunny rice-fields, where the bird and bee,
In slumberous tones, chant summer’s sweet re-
	frains.
Love’s loyal faith, sincere, each part the best
	maintains.

Let others boast their prairies spreading wide
Whose lonesome plains the far horizon meet;
Still let them paint with fond exultant pride,
Their miles of corn-fields and their waving wheat;
Or, let them tell of vast woods’ dim retreat,
With vaulted arches thick with evergreen,
Where vines run wild and mosses’ velvet feet
Climb o’er each tangled bough—a living screen
Whose solemn gloom of shade no sun-ray falls be-
	tween.

How would our eyes grow dim o’er those broad
	plains,
With home-sick longing for our russet hills!
Nor could we bear the depths where twilight 
	reigns,
Whose deep recesses cloistered silence fills.
Dearer to us the cliff whose grandeur thrills,
With its mute eloquence, the heart’s unrest;
Dearer the water-falls and leaping rills,
And canyons wild of Utah’s caverned breast,
Though other scenes be fair, we love our Utah
	best.

As when through leagues of blistering, shimmer,
	ing sand,
Its toilsome way the caravan has made,
Sees o’er the waste the cool, green palm-tree
	stand,
And rapturous, hails their bliss of restful shade—
And as the ship by tempest long delayed,
Beaten by storm-waves, shattered by the blast,
Gains the sure harbor, and, with anchor weighed,
Rests on the peaceful billow, safe at last,
Happy in perils shunned and dangers overpast—

So with their faces toward the golden west,
Through weary leagues, toil on the pilgrim train ; 
Storm-worn, but dauntless in their weary quest,
Cross the broad river and the treeless plain,
Till Utah’s rock-built height their footsteps gain.
Circled by cliffs, like some great eagle’s nest,
Lies a lone valley—nature’s wild domain :
'Here," says their chieftain, “here may Zion
	rest;
Here shall God’s temple stand, and here His
	Saints be blest."

[Column 2]
As on New England’s cold, surf-beaten shore,
The earlier pilgrims built devotion’s shrine;
’Mid the loud anthem of the ocean’s roar,
To great Jehovah tuned their swelling line,
And saw His love o’er stern, hard duty shine—
So knelt these toil-worn  souls—faith’s struggling
	band—
Asking in earnest prayer, the power divine
To shield them in the wild, waste, barren land.
And guide them in their toil up heaven’s direct-
	ing hand.

The world is richer by such pioneers;
Faith, through their toil, its golden fruitage sees,
And life’s hard front in softer light appears;
That the slow-moving world may walk at ease,
Truth builds her highways broad, by such as
	these.
They found a desert—made a garden fair,
Where luscious fruits bend low the clustering
	trees,
And flowers of every tint perfume the air,
Where towns and cities broad and equal blessing
	share.
I’ve heard a story of the days of old,
Told by Ute warriors when the pale-face  came—
How long ago a spirit, overbold,
With mighty Manitou made rival claim
With silver, gold and gems of every name,
He built proud turrets on the Wasatch range;
But the Great Spirit from his mount of flame.
With thunder-bolts of fire and lightnings strange,
Made walls and tower and throne to shapeless
	ruins change.
I know not if the tale be strictly true;
But yet our Utah mountains strangely show
Bright lines of yellow gold, and still we view
Masses of silver, heaped and strewn as though
From some vast silver temple’s overthrow—
Marbles and precious ore that might bedeck
The halls of monarchs with resplendent glow—
Jasper and syenite and jeweled speck—
As though a world of mines had burst in plen-
	teous wreck.

Fair land of marvels! Where Aladdin’s lamp
And Ali Baba’s treasure-cave are ours!
Where giant force has left his Titan stamp,
And genial nature gemmed her vales with
	flowers!
Thy gushing spring shall send refreshing
	showers,
Till all thy waste lands ring with harvest glee.
The weary thousands seek the restful bowers
Where health springs, jocund, from thy island
	sea,
Thy glad streams turn the wheels of strong-
	armed industry.
In thy young days thy horoscope we draw,
And stars auspicious tell of fates benign.
Symbol of order, industry and law,
The murmurous hive is emblem fitly thine.
Still ’round that hive thy sego lilies twine—
Manna for man and nectar cup for bee;
Born in the mountain where the sunbeams shine.
Its peerless bloom is type of liberty;
Be loyal like thy bees, and, like thy lilies, free.

Where from the heights the mountain torrents
	spring,
The eagle builds aloft her craggy nest,
Meets the new morning, poised on steady wing.
And soars through ether from the topmost
	crest—
Thy eagle’s flight be thine, oh, Utah blest
In that, from earliest days, thy children stand
With equal power to seek the highest, best,
And noblest; knowing thy impartial hand
Fetters no God-given soul in all thy favored land.

Onward and upward! of the sister states
Youngest; but gifted with a priceless dower!
Fortune waits, knocking at thy opening gates;
Press to the front in thine auspicious hour!

[Column 3]
Give to the world the best work in thy power:
Reach to each noble cause a helping hand;
And should dark clouds above the nation lower,
Rise in thy might, for God and native land,
Wave wide thy stars and stripes, and with them
	conquering stand.
