HOLIDAY WEDDING BELLS.
			“The general voice
	Sounds him, for courtesy, behavior, language,
	And ev’ry fair demeanor, an example;
	Titles of honor add not to his wealth, 
	Who is himself an honor to his title.”

	ON Wednesday, December 30, 1896 at
high noon in the Salt Lake Temple, Lieut.
Briant Harris Wells and Miss Mary Jane
Jennings were united in marriage by
Bishop John R. Winder. An informal
wedding reception was held at the residence
of the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas W. Jennings from two to five p.
m. The happy bride and bridegroom re-
ceived congratulations under a bower of
vines and the handsome parlors were pro-
fusely and beautifully decorated with holly,
red carnations and the trailing smilax.
	The bridegroom in his uniform and the
bride in a tight fitting blue cloth traveling
dress of the latest style, made a striking
picture as they stood to receive their guests,
who were mostly relatives of the two
families.
	Delicious refreshments were daintily
served in an adjoining room, and the jubi-
lance of the happy occasion was only lessen-
ed by the thought of the immediate de-
parture of the young people from home.
The young Lieut, is stationed with his
regiment at Fort Yates, North Dakota,
whither Lieut, and Mrs. Wells departed
on their wedding journey the same evening.
		“Across the threshold led
  And every tear kissed off as soon as shed
  His house she enters there to be a light,
  Shining within when all without is night;
  A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
  Doubling his pleasures and his cares dividing.
	Lieut. Wells is the youngest son of Gen.
D. H. and Mrs. Martha G. Wells, and is
the brother of Governor Heber M. Wells.
He graduated as a cadet at West Point
three years ago and is well worthy of the
title and honors he bears and we are proud
to say a credit to the service.


Mrs. Wells is the daughter of Thomas
W. Jennings, eldest son of the late Ex.
Mayor Jennings of this city and is also on
the maternal side grand-daughter of the
late Capt. W. H. Hooper, one of the first
delegates to Congress from this Territory.
Lieut. and Mrs. Wells are both very
attractive and popular, and the marriage is
looked upon by all parties as a brilliant
union, and although for the present duty
calls them hence, yet in the near future it
is hoped they may return to make their
permanent home in this city, where they
have a large circle of relatives and friends
who will be proud and happy to welcome
them back to Zion.
	The EXPONENT adds its best wishes for
their future happiness, and may their life
be as serene and prosperous as their nearest
and dearest friends could desire.

	“In peace Love tunes the shepherd’s reed,
	In war he mounts the warrior’s steed;
	In halls in gay attire is seen,
	In hamlets dances on the green.
	Love rules the court, the camp, the grove
	And man below, and saints above;
	For love is heaven and heaven is love !”


