LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

		BOLOGNA, Italy.
		Friday, Dec. 6, 1895.
	Express train via Padua to Venice.
Padua, “Italian Padova,” was founded
according to “Ancient tradition” by
Antenor, the brother-in-law of Priam, and is
famous for its University. Among its
alumni were Savonarola, Tasso, Petrarch
and Galileo, whose statues adorn the Pizza
Vittosia Emanuele.
	The church S. Antonio begun in 1256, is
very imposing with seven domes, and is
rich in paintings, sculptures and works of
Art. The Scuola del Santo has frescoes by
Titian and his pupils. S. Maria dell’
Arena, or Giotto’s chapel contains frescoes
which are among his best works. In one
church is an altar piece by Paul Veronese.
	“Venice in June,” gave our approach
via Adriatic Sea.
	We now approach the city by a railway
bridge more than two miles long, consist-
ing of long embankments and 222 arches,
costing nearly a million dollars.
	We left the cars and entered the gon-
dolas waiting for us, a few moments'
brought us to the Grand Hotel. Although
the winter day was sombre and there were
no singers, the gondola ride and the Medie-
val Palaces were still enchanting.
	We dined, then spent the evening ramb-
ling through the quaint alleys and on the
Grand Square of St. Mark, the pigeons
were so numerous and tame, it was difficult
to walk and not step upon them.
	This square is the centre of all that is
loveliest in Venice. On the E. side is St.
Marks Church, the N. the Procuratie
Vecchi, with the clock tower, (La Torre
dell’ Orologio,) built in 1496, the hours
are struck on a bell by two bronze figures.
The Piazzetta is a small square opening to
the South near the angle it makes with the
Piazza, is the Campanile and on the E. side
is the Ducal Palace, on the W. the Library
and Mint, to the seaward the two columns
of granite one bearing the winged lion of St.
Mark, the other the statue of St. Theodore.
St. Mark was built in the 11th Cent.,
Byzantine style with Gothic additions of the
14th Cent. and Renaissance alterations of
the 17th Cent. Above the portal are the

[Column 2]
bronze horses which Constantine carried
from Rome to Constantinople, whence Zeno
broght back in 1205; they were taken to
Paris by Nap. in 1797 and restored to Venice
in 1815. The church has a great dome in
thecentre and four smaller ones crown the
arms of the cruciform structure the Mosaics
of the exterior and interior cover more than
an acre, are on a background of gold gild-
ing and are very beautiful, the bronze and
rich marbles are splendid.
	It is impossible to describe the Ducal
Palace. We entered by the Scala dei
Giganti or Giants staircase from the court-
yard. The interior is a rich gallery of
Venetian Art, the great Council Hall con-
tains portraits of 76 Doges and Tintorretto’s
Paradise, the Palace is connected on the E.
side with prison (Le Prigione) by the
Bridge of Sighs, so called because when the
prisoners crossed over for their trial, if
innocent they left the Palace by the
front door, if guilty were placed in the dun-
geons below and never again crossed the
bridge.
	Saturday, Dec. 7—Early morning found
us in our gondolas to see the Old Palaces
situated on the Grand Canal. Our hotel
was once the Palace Terro (14th Cent.) and
the Palace Tini Wimpffen, and next to it
is the pretty Palazzo Contarini Tasau,
known as the Palace of Desdemona, the
Palace Mocenigo was occupied by Byron.
	The Arsenal has a gateway of Renaissance
workmanship. “Sharp and expressive in
its ornamental sculpture,” in front are
four Greek lions brought from the Piraens
in 1687, the museum contains old arms,
armor and instruments of torture.
	We visited the factory which is very
interesting. The rest of the day we de-
voted to churches—that of the Jesuits, the
interior is curious, the walls being covered with
imitation of drapery in white marble inlaid
with green, it contains Titians Martyrdom
of St Laurence. St. Sebastine is famous for
pictures by P. Veronise who is buried here.
St. Rocco has pictures by Tintoretto and
Scuola di San Rocco is one of the three
most precious buildings in Italy, the others
being the Sistine Chapel at Rome and the
Campo Santo at Pisa.
	Sunday, Dec. 8—Attended Church San
Marco, the sermon was no doubt eloquent
but could not understand a word, the music
was fine, the organ filled the Church with
rich, full tones. After lunch went to the
Scotch Presbyterian Church but the Pastor’s
wife stood at the door saying, Dr. Robert-
son was ill and there would be no service,
she gave us her card, inviting us to tea on
Monday, saying on that day they received
strangers, and if they felt lonely might
make or meet friends, in a strange land all
the world was kin. Was sorry not to attend
but left Venice on that day.
	Monday, Dec. 9—Early morning train
for Milan via Verona, 72 miles from Venice.
On our other Tour we stopped at Verona.
The churches are very fine mostly Gothic,
the Cathedral is of the 14th Cent. and con-
tains an assumption by Titian and S.
Fermo Maggiore 14th Cent., has a carved
roof of larch wood and in one chapel a fine
altar-piece by Caroto, other churches con-
tain valuable pictures by Tintoretto, P.
Veronise and other artists. Our desire was
to see in this old city the tomb of Juliet.
A rude Sarcophagus was kept in the garden
of an old Franciscan Monastery on the right
bank of the Aolige, the house of the Capu-
lets is on the street San Sabastino.

[Column 3]
	From Verona to Milan is 93 miles. When
I came before took the other route, Turin
to Milan. That road passes through
Novara near which the battle was fought,
and through the memorable battle field of
Magenta. This is the most interesting
route. We pass the Castles of the Montec-
chi, the Montagues of Romeo and Juliet
and Lake Garda, near and toward this was
fought the battle of Solferino, 24th of June,
1859, Austrians defeated by Nap. III.
Saw the house at Villafranca, where the
treaty between the French and Austrian
Emperors was signed July 11, 1859. The
City of Milan, Capitol of Lombardy, is en-
tered through a beautiful arch. When last
here it was warm, the ladies were out on
the streets with lace veils or shawls draped
on their heads something like the Spanish
style. It is a walled city, the interior of
the walls laid out with gardens and planted
with trees, the streets are elegantly paved,
it is a pleasure to walk on them, the foot
paths next the houses are six feet wide of
smooth granite. We drove about the city
and to the suppressed Monastery of St.
Maria delle Grazie, to see Da Vincis Last
Supper. The painting is on the wall and
much defaced as the church was once used
as a stable in time of war; in spite of which
you can see how beautiful was the painting,
although of the 14th Cent. the beautiful
colors still remain. The Church St. Am-
brose founded in the 14th Cent. in its pre-
sent form to the 12th is most interesing.
Here the old Lombard kings received the
“Iron Crowns,” the frescoes and mosaics
are beautiful it has a golden altar-front.
The Brera, a Palace of Science and Art con-
tains in the picture gallery Raphael’s
Sposalizio, or the marriage of the Virgin.
Next we visited the Cathedral with its
delicate tracery and forest of pinnacles, built
in the form of a Latin cross, its interior is
490 feet in length, 185 feet in width, with
nave 155 feet in height, the dome is 220 ft.
in height from the pavement to the top of
the tower 360 feet. The roof has 98 Gothic
turrets, the exterior is adorned with 4,400
marble statues, its beautiful tower and
spires are all surmounted by a statue, the
nterior has double clustered pillars, lofty
arches, niches in the walls filled with figures
and grand monuments. The scene with
the sun shining through the magnificent
stained windows and rose window is strik-
ingly beautiful, just that wavy beautiful
effect of light and shade one gets in a for-
est.
	Among the treasures is a Veil from the
true cross, a silver altar, solid silver
statues, Bibles with the covers filled with
rare jewels, robes of cloth of gold and cloth
of silver, rare laces and wealth untold.
One room is nearly all silver. A Bishop of
Milan lies there in a crystal casket with
gold trimmings, a screen of gold and silver
covers this. He is robed in cloth of gold
with crown and scepter, crosses and rings
of dimaonds, rubies, emeralds and sapphires.
Upon a silver table the candles, and around
the room in solid silver bas-relief is his his-
tory from the cradle to the grave, while up-
on all the chairs is his monogram in silver.
We ascended to the roof of the Cathedral
from which we had superb views of the
plains of Lombardy and the snowy Alps.
To morrow we say farewell to sunny Italy.
							KIM.
	BARONESS HIRSCH has given $250,000 to
endow a home for Hebrew consumptives
in England.


