The American Prison Association Congress By Katherine Palm, Secretary Social Welfare League, Salt Lake City The Fifty-fourth annual Congress of the American Prison Association convened at the Hotel Utah, in Salt Lake City, August 15, 1924. The objects of the Association are as follows: 1, The improvement of laws in relation to offenses and offenders, and the modes of procedure by which such laws are enforced; 2. The study of the causes of crime, the nature of offenders, their social surroundings, the best methods of dealing with offenders and the best methods of crime prevention; 3. The improvement of penal institutions throughout the country, their government, management and discipline, including the appointment of boards of trustees and other officers; 4. The care of prisoners, the provision of suitable remunerative employment for discharged prisoners, especially such as have given evidence of conduct reformation. Various departmental discussions of the foregoing subjects were held both at the Hotel Utah and the Hotel Newhouse. The 'general meetings, open to the public, were held at the Hotel Utah in the ball-room.. From the opening address of President Charles H. Johnson to the final address of the new President, Dr. Frank Moore, one note was sounded repeatedly throughout this convention, This note was prevention?prevention of delinquency. Protection of youth from the crime habit sounded loudly throughout the various appeals of superintendents of institutions, psychiatrists, attorneys, professors, social-welfare specialists, domestic relation and juvenile court judges. Prevention by respect for authority echoed throughout the fervid address of Assistant Attorney-General, Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt. Prevention through understanding by women of the needs of the youth of today thrilled in the appeal made by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, general Secretary of the National Woman's Relief Society. Mrs.. Lyman spoke for community appreciation and understanding of the rights of the youth of today. An audience of men and women AMERICAN PRISON ASSOCIATION CONGRESS 517 of national prominence followed appreciatively her outline, which had for its purpose the conservation, preservation, and the development of all of the possibilities of our youth?the citizens of tomorrow. She urged the removal of stumbling blocks from the path of little children that they might not be forced aside from the highway of right living; she emphasized the need of saving for them their mothers, who all too frequently die in child-birth; also, the importance of preventive medicine in all programs of child welfare. She commended the Sheppard-Towner Act, the Suffrage Amendment, and the Prohibition Amendment as forward looking measures in the protection of youth. The birthright of every child, she maintained, is opportunity for normal living, and when this is vouchsafed by society, social and moral conditions will materially improve. Community responsibiliyt for the education, training in work, and general health of its youth, both moral and physical, was best advanced through the presence of women in legislative bodies throughout the United States, she asserted; for women's real job is the improvement of our youth of today. Mrs, Willebrandt, who occupies the highest appointive position of any women in the United States, made two addresses while in the city?one at the Congress and the other at the University of Utah. She disclosed the reason why the United States had acquired the unenviable standing as the most lawless nation in the world. That reason is disrespect for law, and the slow and inadequate processes of justice in the courts of the country. Laws enacted only to be flouted; prosecutions, if successful, carry fines rather than jail sentences. Mrs. Willebrandt pleaded for sustaining of punishment, swift, certain, severe, as an effectual barrier against crime and criminals. She complained that there is no cohesion among the various forces organized for the protection of youth and for the upholding of authority. Her brilliant addresses were received with respect and appreciation, for at no time did her great ability as an attorney over-shadow her charm as a woman engaged in the highest task of upholding the constitution, a guarantee of protection to the youth of today. The part that heredity plays in the making of criminals was reviewed by Dr. Edgar King, U. S. Disciplinary Barracks, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. He stated that while the majority of the men under his observation were military prisoners, he had had opportunities to study great numbers of civilian prisoners also, and had determined that eighty per cent of the men in Ft. Leavenworth became criminals from causes that had been inherited: feeblemindedness, defective nervous systems, epilepsy and paresis were the most easily recognized defects. Of the defects of this eighty