SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MEETING held in the 14th Ward Nov.
16th, 1895, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing "Glorious
things of thee are spoken." Prayer by Sis-
ter M. W. Wilcox. Continued by singing
"Where the voice of friendship’s heard.”
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
President Horne stated that our Secretary,
Sister Vilate Young had thought she would
be here today, but she must be detained,
and Sister Alder has consented to act a
little longer, when I trust Sister Young will
be back. Said she was pleased to be here
this lovely day. "We must be tried before
the Lord to see if we will stand. We must
embrace the truth for the love of it. Those
who serve God will have strength to over-
come trials. We must watch as well as
pray, and pray always. Read the counsels
of our Savior to His Apostles. We must
have these things always before us to re-
mind us of Him. I hope you will employ
the time and bear your testimony if only a
few words spoken in weakness. President
Brigham Young told us to get up parties in
this Hall as nothing had ever desecrated it.
Let us thank God for His blessings which
He has poured out upon us.”
	Sister Barrow spoke of the efficacy of prayer
and administrations of the Priesthood. Sis-
ters sang "Redeemer of Israel.” Sister
Fame said she knew this was the work of
God. Felt to rejoice in the work. I honor
my father and my mother for they have
taught us good principles.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was happy to be
here. "The sisters that come to this meeting
are the wheat. Here they learn such good
things. I love to come here, yet I enjoy
the work in the Temple most. Our religion
is first in our thoughts. I feel this is a
choice house, I have had very happy hours
here and some sad ones. I do not think
the Savior will come until pestilence and
famine passes over the earth.”
	Sister Robinson said I know that the
angels are here. When I go into the
house of the Lord, I feel that we leave all
the cares of this world behind us, I know
that this is the work of God. Made other
encouraging remarks.
	Sisters sang, "The trials of the present
day, require the Saints to watch and pray.”
	Sister Morris, said she had been away for
a while, but her heart is always here, had
been in this church for forty years, and "I
pray that I may be faithful, also that we
may be more united. May we endure to
the end.”
	Sister Larson, "I feel the sweet influences
of the Holy Spirit here. I wish to give
glory unto God, look forward for the re-
ward of the faithful. I do not want to
look backward, may we be true to our God
and to one another.”
	Sisters sang, "Let us pray gladly pray.”
	A sister in the congregation felt grateful
to her Heavenly Father for the many bless-
ings bestowed upon her. If we have faith
in the Lord we will have the blessings,”

[Column 2]
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde, "I do not
think I ever bore my testimony to the truth
of this work publicly. But I feel to say
that this is the work of the Lord. If we
have trials or sickness, if we will call upon
the Lord for a blessing we will get it.”
	A sister in the congregation said she knew
that the promise of the Lord was sure, if
we bear our testimony that this is the work
of God.
	Sister Forsythe, "I feel that we must be-
come as one, so that the Lord will own us
as His.”
	Sister Hardy said she tried to serve the
Lord. "We are making a record every
day, I hope it will be a bright one. We
should trust each other. We must be hum-
ble unto the end.”
	Sister Nuttall said she feared to stand and
speak of the Lord. Had been promised
better health if she would stand and bear
testimony. Said the spirit of the Lord
was here. "I always feel to praise God
and glorify His holy name.”
	Sister Reed, "I know that the spirit of
the Lord is here, I want to live and serve the
Lord.”
	A sister in the congregation said she was
thankful that she had been faithful unto
this day and desired to press onward day by
day.
	Sister Nunn, "I rejoice to be here today,
and I feel better than when I came here.
May we put our trust in God and serve
Him.”
	Another sister said she was thankful for
the many instructions she received in these
meetings, and desired to acknowledge, the
hand of God in all her trials.
	Sister Waterfall said she felt that Satan
was on the path, may we live faithful and
be able to come to these meetings, said she
suffered with her heart, but I know our
Father comforts us in our trouble. Told of
a vision she had. Would to God that we
might see eye to eye and be one.
	Sisters sang, "The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning.”
	Sister Elizabeth Paul—"I feel to rejoice
in all that has been spoken today. I never
had a greater desire than I have today to
serve God, we need power from on high to
live in this day.” Spoke of a wonderful
manisfestation given to her. Said the
name, date of birth and death, was given
to her, also related a dream she had.
	Sister Sarah Phelps, spoke in the gift of
tongues. Interpretation given by Sister
Paul.
	Sister McMaster said her health had not
been good, "I have only the Gospel of
Jesus Christ to live for. I have never
doubted this Latter-day work.”
	Sister Mary Mair, "I must bear my
testimony of the truth of this Gospel.
May the Lord bless us and keep us humble.
Closing remarks by President Mrs. Horne,
announced that our stake conference would
convene four weeks from today. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Closed by sing-
ing, "Mid scenes of confusion.” Benedic-
tion by Julia Howe.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF TRAVELS.
BROOKVILLE IND. JAN. 6TH 1896.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Friend:––I will endeavor to give
you a brief sketch of my trip or visit East. 
	I left Salt Lake City on the tenth of last

[Column 2]
October in company with my little son,
Lynne, reaching Denver the next day,
where I spent several days with my
daughter who is teaching in one of the
public schools, and my son Robbie who is
with her and attending school. I enjoyed
my stay there very much, as well as the
great Carnival in progress during our stay,
we witnessed numerous parades one par-
ticularly striking, being an evening display
of “The slaves of the silver kings.”
 	On the 19th, we took the train for Pitts-
burg, the smoky city of Pennsylvania,
having to lay over four hours at Kansas
City, I met my sister-in-law, Mrs Frank
Tower, she was much pleased to see me
“as it was the first time.” At 9 p. m. we
again moved on to the great city of St. Louis
where we remained six hours, while wait-
ing we took a carriage drive through the
principal streets to suburbs of the city in-
cluding, Forest Park, enjoyed our ride and
sights of the city very much. From here
we crossed Illinois, Indiana, my native state
and Ohio The prairies seemed exceedingly
tame and common-place after our noble
mountain scenery, but the latter two states
were crossed in the dark, we visited relatives
in Pittsburg four days and then rode out
twenty five miles to Valencia where I was
met by my only sister living, Mrs. Hannah
Bailey whom I had not seen for forty years,
as may well be imagined it was a happy
meeting. For two weeks we spent the time
in becoming acquainted as it were, when
we together started for Cincinnati. Here
we stayed three weeks with relatives. We
sat down to thanksgiving dinner with my
father’s youngest sister Mrs. R. Walker.
Her only living sister Mrs. Margaret Heap
lives in Wyoming, and is a member of our
Church, the only one, she is about eighty
six years of age. The Ohio river had so
little water in its channel that no boats were
running, so I was disappointed of riding on
the river.
	It was a wonderful sight at Pittsburg to
see the numbers of barges, awaiting a rise
that they might float to market, the two
rivers forming the Ohio were covered with
these fleets for miles.
	On the twenty ninth of November we
came to this place over the Valley Railroad,
the entire distance winding up a river valley
reaching here at 7 p. m. where we were
met by the daughter of my uncle A. C.
Miller and conducted to their hospitable
home where we received a hearty welcome
from the remainder of the family, uncle,
aunt and two other cousins. Uncle and
aunt are both past seventy and raised five
children never having had a death in the
family.
	At this place I found a cousin Mrs.
Elizabeth Bailey, who at eighty four lives
alone and attends to her property and
business. William Beesley another cousin,
after a few days drove over from the neigh-
borhood of my old home and en route we
pass the old hamlet of Mt. Carmel, the
home of the gifted poetess, M. Louisa
Chitwood, the pet of the noted George D.
Prentiss, she died at the early age of twenty-
two. Here after a few days my sister bade
me goodbye and returned to her home.
Amid these home scenes I met many rela-
tives and old friends, though a number
have passed away, and some have moved to
other parts. I visited my childhood home
and the home of my parents, emotions too
strong for utterance crowded my bosom as
I entered that good old house erected by my


On the 28th we started for home travel-
ing up the River, camped at the Beaver
Dam on the 29th and arrived home in the
evening, having traveled two hundred and
thirty miles.
