ST. GEORGE STAKE.
Dear Sister Wells:
	Sister Juie McDonald and myself left St.
George on the 22nd, of November, in com-
pany with Bishop George F. Jarvis and
Samuel Miles, who were going as mis-
sionaries to Bunkerville, also the settle-
ments on the Muddy: we were in the in-
terest of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations. It is the first
time we have visited this part of the stake,
it is a hard road, and few chances to get
there. It snowed the day we left St.
George, but we did not suffer, as we went
prepared for it; we traveled down the river
to Albert Franer’s about two miles the
other side of the Beaver Dams; here we
were made very welcome by Brother
Franer and family. There are about six
families, they have a good rock school
house and every facility for a good school
which is successfully taught by Charley
Miles. This is a thrifty settlement and a
people that know how to make a living.
It is in the north west corner of Arizona.
	On the 23rd of Nov., we left for Bunker-
ville, crossing the Rio Virgen River a great
number of times. When we were nearing

[Column 3]
Bunkerville, the braces on our carriage
tongue broke and left us in the river;
through the kindness of our esteemed friend
George F. Jarvis we were carried out, and
landed on terra firma. The brethren had
to get into the water which was anything
but agreeable We got the vehicle fixed
so it took us to Bunkerville; where we were
kindly entertained by Bishop Bunker and
family, we held a Primary meeting, here
we met a nice lot of children. In the even-
ing the reorganization of the Relief Society
was effected and we put them in a position
to do business the same as the other as-
sociations.
	The 24th, Sunday, we met with the sab-
bath school and found the young people
quite progressive, the afternoon meeting
was well attended, a good spirit prevailed,
at the close we met with the Relief Society
and we felt well to meet with the sisters
here and talk over their interests. They
own a lot containing an almond orchard
also a granary, and something over a
hundred bushels of wheat. We advised
them to make what improvements they
could, and turn their almonds into grain,
and store it against the time of need, as
that time is surely coming, that the prophets
have spoken of. The 25th, we started for
the Muddy, here we got a spring wagon
from Father Bunker, left our carriage to be
fixed, traveling down the river some dis-
tance, turning to the right we ascended a
hill, and traveled over a very barren
country. We next came to the famous
Virgen hill, we recognized the hand of the
Lord in our carriage breaking in the river
instead of this hill, as it would have been
sure death to some of our party; it looks as
if the country had been burnt all over,
there is nothing living or growing on it but
some Joshaways, that look like sentinels
with their arms stretched out.
	About eight o’clock we arrived at St.
Joseph and were entertained by Brother
Huntsman and family, who had a very
sick child.
	On the 26th, we met with the people of
this settlement and organized a Relief
Society and Primary. Sister Juie enter-
tained the children with the exercises, she
has the happy faculty of creating an inter-
est in them that is pleasing. At Overton
on the 26th, the missionaries held a meet-
ing in the afternoon with the people when
a reorganization of the Relief Society was
effected. In the evening we met with the
primary at Sister Johnson’s house, she is
president of the association, we had a very
interesting time, here we found more boys
than girls. This is a rare occurrence.
Bishop Jones honored us with his presence
at this meeting, which we appreciated.
	On the 27th, we continued our journey
to St. Thomas, where we met with the
people, and organized a Relief Society,
Mutual and Primary associations. The
people seemed pleased to have these or-
ganizations, and we trust they will be alive
to their duties. We know there is a bless-
ing in doing our duty Here we found
Sister Mary Bunker very sick, she was a
very estimable young woman. I think she
had only been married to Brother John
Bunker about two months, she is a
daughter of Brother Luke Syphus of Pan-
acca; she died a few days after we were there.
We feel to sympathize with the bereaved
ones in this affliction; we spent the night
with Brother Whitney and family, who
made us very welcome.


of Utah have recently been admitted to full
enfranchisment, therefore be it,
	Resolved, that we extend to them our
hearty congratulations upon their promotion
to full citizenship; and also that we hereby
endeavor to express our gratitude to the
men of those states for that justice done wo-
man, and our admiration for the manliness
and courage of their action.


