THE INAUGURATION.

	THE glad news of the Proclamation for
statehood in Utah, being issued and signed
by President Cleveland on the morning of
January, 4th, 1896, was received here with
joy and exultation, and was immediately
telegraphed all over the new State, so that
the demonstrations of rejoicing were gen-
eral. The tidings reached this city at
10 o’clock and three minutes probably the
first official business of the morning, at the
White House, which seems particularly
auspicious. The message was received
with acclamation in all that the word im-
plies. Cannons firing from the highest
points near the city, bells ringing, whistles
blowing, stars and stripes floating from all
available places, bands of music playing,
and the air, fairly echoing with shouts of
joy from the multitude. Never was state-
hood more strongly emphasized, we think,
than on that never to be forgotten day, that
brought freedom to women, as well as men,
the full rights and privileges of citizenship.
	Preparations were already in progress for
the inaugural ceremonies and military
parade on Monday, January 6th, to celebrate
the happy occasion, and for a ball to be
given in the theatre the same evening,
making the entire day a joyful as well as
a historical event.
	Early on Monday morning January 6th,
the grand celebration so long anticipated
begun, the streets were thronged with
people, thousands of visitors from other
parts of the state, beside the home popula-
tion, until it was almost impossible to pass
along the public thoroughfares.
	The magnificent procession was in charge
of Grand Marshal Robert Burton and Ad-
jutant General John Q. Cannon.
	The military parade presented an impos-
ing spectacle, bands of music, banners,
with flags, and fine horses and officers in
uniform cannot fail to produce enthusiasm
on any occasion and this was exceedingly
important, as well as historic. Foremost
among the officers from camp was General
Penrose of the U. S. A. and several others
with companies in uniform and the National
Guard conspicuous also with Brigadier
General R W. Young, Colonels N. W.
Clayton and Frank Jennings.
	Governor Heber M. Wells with head un-
covered, with the State and Territorial of-
ficers and Judges in carriages also Mayor
and City officials with other dignitaries
formed a long line followed by citizens;
There seemed to be innumerable bands of
music and many civic and secret societies,

[Column 2]
Masons, Odd Fellows, Knights of Pythias,
etc., whose banners, badges and parapher-
nalia always make a fine appearance, there
was also an elaborate display of trades,
followed by carriage loads of citizens;
mounted police in uniform on either side
added to the pictorial effect. The line of
parade was on the principal streets and the
waving of flags with the martial music, the
bowing, lifting of hats, waving of hand-
kerchiefs and cheering, as one after another
was recognized by the crow[-]s who filled
the windows, piazzas, doorways and side-
walks made the affair a triumphal march,
all the way along to the great Tabernacle
where the inauguration was to take place.
	The decorations of the Tabernacle were
most unique, the great American flag,
“Old Glory” the largest ever made, covered
the entire central surface of the dome of
this vast auditorium—(its exact size is 75
by 150 feet.) The forty-fifth star for Utah
was placed in the upper corner of the flag
and an incandescent light was so arranged
as to throw its rays upon the thousands of
people who filled the galleries and body of
the house in this capacious building. From
the great flag were numberless red, white
and blue streamers running in all directions,
and joining the elaborate trimming of flags
and bunting which decorated the gallery.
All the speakers’ stands and pillars of the
house were artistically draped with the
national colors, and an immense American
eagle surmounted the tower of the great
organ under which was the name UTAH
electrically illuminated. We are happy
to say in this connection, and as a matter
of history, that a woman, Mrs. Margaret
A. Caine, was the principal person in
designing and in superintending the actual
work of decorating the Tabernacle.
	On the speakers' stand were many promi-
nent citzens, among them the following:
	Presidents Woodruff, George Q. Cannon
and Jos. F. Smith, Hon. Jos. L. Rawlins,
Acting Governor C. C. Richards, Governor
Heber M. Wells, Chief Justice Zane, Judges
Miner, Bartch, King, Judd, Baskin, Com-
missioners Tatlock and Sherman, John
Henry Smith, Francis M. Lyman, A. H.
Cannon, Brigham Young, R. C. Chambers,
J. W. Whitehead, General Penrose of the
U. S. A., and numerous other army officers.
	Among the latter were Adjutant General
John Q. Cannon, Brigadier General R. W.
Young, Colonels N. W. Clayton and Frank
Jennings.
	Precisely at 12:15 Acting Governor Rich-
ards called the vast assemblage to order.
	He spoke very briefly and the substance of
his remarks was as follows: "I feel very
sensibly the great honor that the committee
ha[-]conferred upon me in selecting me to fill
this important position today. For nearly
fifty years the people of Utah have been
patiently and prayerfully waiting for this
auspicious occasion—this blessed day. Ever
since my childhood I have been taught that
the time would come when the citizens of
Utah would be accorded every political and
civil right granted to their fellow citizens
throughout the United States. Not less
than three generations of people are living
in this new State who have never cast a
vote for a President of the United States.
	Bnt on November next they will go to
the polls and exercise that privilege that all
freemen love so well. This is the proudest
day of my life, and when I say that, I but
express the feelings of at least a quarter of a
million of people who all join in saluting the

[Column 3]
new star and in giving thanks for the aban-
donment of Territorial bondage for that more
perfect government to be found under State-
hood (Applause.)
	Stirring selections of music by the
Martial Band, from Fort Douglas, were
given next which were heartily applauded.
	Acting Governor Richards announced
that President Woodruff was to have offered
the opening prayer; but on account of his
health, preventing him from doing so, he
had prepared an INVOCATION which was
delivered by President George Q. Can-
non.
	The great choir of one thousand voices
sang with unsurpassed enthusiasm, the
“Star Spangled Banner,” while flags waved
effectively and delight was apparent on the
faces of the assemblage. Tumultuous
applause by the patriotic throng filled the
building.
	Hon. Joseph L. Rawlins was introduced
amid cheers and applause and read Presi-
dent Cleveland’s Proclamation announcing
the admission of Utah, which we publish
in full.

