A PRCCLAMATION.

	WEREAS, the Congress of the United
States passed an act which was approved on
the 16th day of July, 1894, entitled "An act
to enable the people of Utah to form a con-
stitution and State government and to be
admitted into the Union on an equal footing
with the original States," which act provided
for the electio[-] of delegates to a constitu-
tional convention to meet at the seat of
Government of the Territory of Utah on the
first Monday in March, 1895’ for the purpose
of declaring the adoption of the constitution
of the United States by the people of the pro-
posed State and forming a constitution and
State government for such State and,
	WHEREAS, delegates were accordingly
elected who met, organized and declared on
behalf of the people of said proposed State
their adoption of the Constitution of the
United States, all as provided in said act; and
	WHEREAS, said convention so organized,
did, by ordinance irrevocable without the
consent of the United States and the people
of said State, as required by said act, provide
that perfect toleration of religious sentiment
shall be secured and that no inhabitant of
said State shall ever be molested in person or
property on account of his or her mode of
religious worship, but that polygamous or
plural marriages are for ever prohibited; and
did also by said ordinancə make the other
various stipulations recited in sec. 3 of said
act; and
	WHEREAS, said convention thereupon for-
med a constitution and State government for
said proposed State, which constitution,
including said ordinance, was duly sub-
mitted to the people thereof at an election
held on the Tuesday next after the first
Monday of November, 1893, as directed by
said act; and
	WHEREAS, the return of said election has
been made and canvassed and the result
thereof certified to me together with a state-
ment of the votes cast and a copy of said con-
stitution and ordinance, all as provided in
such act, showing that a majority of the
votes lawfully cast at such election was for the
ratification and adoption of said constitution
and ordinance; and
	WHEREAS, the constitution and govern-
ment of said proposed State are republican
in form, said constitution is not repugnant to,
the Constitution of the United States and the


[Column 1]
Declaration of Independence, and all the pro-
visions of said act have been complied with,
in the formation of said constitution and
government.
	Now, therefore I, Grover Cleveland, Presi-
dent of the United States of America, in
accordance with the act of Congress aforesaid,
and by authority thereof, announce the result
of said election to be as so certified, and do
hereby declare and proclaim that the terms
and conditions prescribed by the Congress of
the United States to entitle the State of
Utah to admission into the Union have been
duly complied with, and that the creation
of said State and its admission into the
Union on an equal footing with the original
States is now accomplished.
	IN testimony whereof I have hereunto
set my hand and caused the seal of the
United States to be affixed.
	(Seal-) Done at the city of Washington
this 4th day of January, in the year of our
Lord, 1896, and of the independence of the
United States of America the 120th.
				GROVER CLEVELAND.
	By the President: RICHARD OLNEY.
Secretary of State.
	At the conclusion the cheers were almost
deafening.
	Mr. Rawlins turned to Mr. Wells and
said, “and now I have the honor to present
you, Heber M. Wells the first Governor of
Utah, the pen which was used by the
President of the United States, ten minutes
before the hour of midnight, July 16, 1894,
signing the bill under which Utah has be-
come a State in the American Union. I
present it to you in order that it may be
kept among the archives of the state of
Utah.
	Anton Pederson's band played a brilliant
and thrilling selection, and received en-
thusiastic applause.
	The most soul-thrilling incident of the
day was when Acting Governor Richards
surrendered the Territorial power of the
Executive Office, as follows—
	“Pursuant to the provisions of the Con-
stitution of the new State and the proclama-
tion of the President, the hour has arrived
when the Federal government is to with-
draw from the control of the affairs of the
Territory, and to surrender it up to the peo-
ple and to the native son of Utah. It is
fitting that this should be done in this pub-
lic manner, and in the performance of this
pleasing duty, and, as the Governor of the
Territory of Utah I now surrender to your
favored servant, the Executive office, upon
his taking the oath prescribed by the Con-
stitution, which will now be administered
by the Chief Justice of the new State, the
Hon. Charles S. Zane.”
	Governor Wells took the oath as adminis-
tered by Chief Justice Zane, and at a given
signal the booming of artillery was heard
from Capitol hill and continued as the oath
was also administered by the Chief Justice
to the other state officers.
	The big chorus then rendered Stephens’s
new song, “Utah we Love Thee.”
	Secretary of State Hammond read Gov.
Wells first Proclamation convening the
Legislature at 3 o’clock of that day in the
City and County Building, and then followed
Governor Wells Inaugural Address, an able
and exhaustive document, in which he paid
a glowing tribute to the pioneers, and re- 
counted in an interesting manner the polit-
cal history of the Territory from its first
settlement until the present time including
statistics, and valuable information, and

[Column Two]
some of the main points in the new Con-
stitution.
	Governor Wells in his address did not
forget to mention the women as fellow
citizens, and we are proud to record his
good word on this subject.
	“Moderation and wisdom acquired in a
hard school are often the most valuable
possessions of nations, of states and of in-
dividuals. Let us, fellow citizens, profit by
the past and prove worthy of the trust re-
posed in us. And when I say “fellow citi-
zens,” be it remembered that from this time
forth the term includes the women of Utah
as well as the men. Says the Constitution:
	“The rights of citizens of the State of
Utah to vote and hold office shall not be
denied or abridged on account of sex.
	Both male and female citizens of the State
shall enjoy equally all civil political and re-
ligious rights and privileges.”
	In behalf of the male electors of the State,
I now extend the hand of greeting to the
qualified female voters and welcome them
to the full rights and privileges of citizen-
ship. It seems to me they are to be especi-
ally congratulated because there is no a-
bridgement of their rights; but on the con-
trary, they enter upon the domain of the
citizen under Statehood as free and indepen-
dent sovereigns. Their waiting has been
long and patient. Their triumph is all the
more complete. May the pure, ennobling
influence which they impart to the hearths
and homes of Utah be felt in the exercise of
their new duties, and may their future
use of the ballot vindicate the wisdom and
enlightenment of our law-givers.
	After the delivery of the address which
was received with cheers and applause, the
choir and the immense patriotic audience
joining rendered America, and Dr. Iliff pro-
nounced the benediction. As the people
dispersed the combined bands of music
gave “Hail Columbia” and the “Star
Spangled Banner,” amid cheers and shouts
of delight and rejoicing.
	The inaugural ball was as great a success
as the ceremonies in the Tabernacle,
although it could not be quite so dignified
and solemn. It was a sort of triumphal
closing of this historic day of days. The
elaborate display of decorations illumined
with incandescent lights produced a very
fine effect. The great blazing flag which
hung in the archway of the platform was a
“Marvel and a wonder,” a thing of light
and beauty to behold.
	It is indeed a proud day for Utah when
one of her noble sons born upon the native
soil, stands as the Chief Executive of the
new state, which was ushered in so
auspiciously, and is welcomed so gladly by
a happy, prosperous and thrifty people
anxious to promote justice, equity and the
right, and to uphold the Constitution of this
great and free American Republic.


