BEFORE IT WAS TOO LATE.

	“OH, dear me! What a long lonesome
day I see ahead of me, and peering out of
the window it really looks like storm.
What shall I do to drive away the ennui
of my life, having nothing much to do; I
have heard so much said about forming
new resolutions at this the beginning of the
New Year, and trying to do good wherever
one can see a chance of doing so, but I am
afraid nothing special ever comes my way.
Well I guess I might as well resign myself
to the inevitable. Some of the girls may
call in and old Mrs. Harvey may call to
rest on her way to see her sick daughter,
what a pleasant face and peaceful spirit she
has to be sure, it really does one good to
chat with her.”
	Mary Vernon had tarried in the morning
room after the rest of the family had left,
and thus fell to soliloquizing to herself, a
petted, spoiled child of a well-to-do family;
she had reached womanhood in possession
of many noble traits of character that were
really lying dormant for the want of arous-
ing but when brought to the test would
show her true to the heart’s core.
	“Ah! There is some one at the door
now” and hastily smoothing the folds of
her wrapper and casting a hasty glance in
the mirror opposite, admitted the visitor
who proved to be the only son and support
of a poor widowed lady, living a short dis-
tance from Mary’s home. A young man
that had assisted Mr. Vernon about the
place whenever occasion demanded.
	“Good morning Jack and a very happy
New Year to you.”
	“Good morning Miss Mary and the very
best wishes of the New Year to you.”
	“How is your mother and the children this
morning” Mary then asked.
	“Oh the children are quite well, thank
you, but mother (coloring and stammering)
is feeling a little under the weather.”
	“Indeed! Sit down Jack and tell me all
about it” offering him a chair, this Jack ac-
cepted still blushing saying, “Well it is
just this way, I have been spending my
evenings away from home of late and
mother gets lonely with no one but the
children to talk to, but few call as they don’t
speak our language, this morning she won’t
talk much, said she would leave home and
goes around looking as though she would
rather die than not, I would much rather
she would scold. I know that I ought to
have staid at home more, I feel like leaving
home myself when I see her with such a
sad look.”
	“Nonsense Jack, we will see what can
be done to make your mother more cheer-
ful.”
	They had been neighbors for some time
and Mary knew in spite of Jack’s rough,
uncouth ways that he possessed a warm,
generous heart almost to a fault and she al-
so knew that Jack’s mother, like all people,
had her own peculiarities, and one of them
was to domineer with an almost iron will,
because she knew that her son would do
almost anything rather than offend her, he
was often heard to say when some careless
person protested against his mother’s man-
ner to him “mother is getting old and be-
ing so far from her native land and relatives
I think I can well afford to be patient with
her, for I know that I would be very lonely
without her, she means well.” Jack's
father had died when he was quite young,
the mother then struggled bravely along,

[Column 2]
meeting with no great disadvantage no
more than is common with all working
people.
	Jack had now reached manhood and was
the sole support of a sister, two orphan
children and his mother, he was never heard
to murmur or to complain, but the burden
must indeed have seemed heavy at times.
	Mary sat for a few moments lost in
thought then broke the silence by saying,
“I see you are on your way to market,
glancing at his basket, while you are on
your errand, I will see what can be done,
cheer up and call on your way back.”
	The young man then took his departure,
Mary sat thinking for a little while then
went in search of her mother and younger
sister, this object gained, she held a short
consultation with them they readily agreed
to assist her in her plan and soon had gath-
ered together a few articles, then protect-
ing herself from the storm which had
already begun, she departed with a light
heart but not without some little misgivings
as to her welcome from Jack’s mother, but
she had set forth with a firm determination
to make herself happy that morning by
making others so and she was not to be
easily thwarted in her plans.
	Her heart gave a great throb of fear,
however, when the mother met her at the
door with rather a tragic looking face, but
summoning up all her courage to her aid,
she extended her hand wishing her a very
happy New Year, which the mother under-
stood and responded to, in broken English.
	Mary saw the ice was already broken, she
then picked up the little four year old girl
playing about, placing her on her lap, after
chatting with her a little, then took from
her basket a very pretty doll, a relic of her
sisters, the scream of delight from the child
more than repaied Mary for her trouble,
then next came a few toys for the boy.
	Next she soon fashioned a very pretty
lamp shade from the material she had
brought in her basket as she had heard Jack
lamenting his mother’s weak eyes. Then
came a pretty blooming plant well wrapt to
protect it from the biting frost, this caused
a cry of delight from the receiver.
	Mary then took her leave feeling assured
that she had thoroughly accomplished that
which she had set out to do.
	On her way back she bethought herself
of an invalid lady living near and calling,
comforted her with a few cheering words.
She then busied herself with straightening
up the house and making the invalid more
comfortable and after making the children
look more tidy, she then sat down taking
Longfellow's book of poems from its place
on a stand near by read in sweet, low tones,
“The Psalm of Life” and when she came
to the beautiful lines
		“Life is real, life is earnest,
		And the grave is not its goal.”
	She felt to acknowledge to herself that
never before had she so fully realized their
beauty and significance, and she mentally
resolved that henceforth her life should not
be like that of the gay butterfly but one of
real usefulness.
	And as a few days later Jack with beaming
countenance thanked her and told of the
change in his home and of his resolve to
sacrifice more of his pleasure to make his
mother happy, she felt to thank God for
opening her eyes to the error of her ways
before it was too late.
