MARY L. P. TEASDALE.

	WE have all been painfully shocked at the loss
of our beloved sister Mary Loretta P. Teasdale,
the first counselor to President Dora W. Pratt, of
the presidency of the Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Associations of the Juarez Stake of
Zion, and president of the Stake presidency of
the Primary Associations who has been so faithful
and devoted in her much appreciated labors.
Sister Teasdale has been ailing for some time but
would not give up, but during the last five weeks
she had been confined to her room, faithfully
waited on by her family and Sister Phoebe I.
Allred, her nurse. All that affection could sug-
gest in help given and faithful administration and
fervent prayers were offered in hopes her life and
usefulness might be continued on earth, but it
has pleased our Father in heaven to take her
from this probationary estate to labor in a brighter
and higher sphere.
	Sister M. L. P. Teasdale was born May 26th,
1863, at Nephi, Juab county, Utah. She was the
daughter of James and Jane Picton. She has al-
ways been devoted to the cause of the Redeemer.
Nearly four years of her life was spent in the
Liverpool office and many of the missionaries
will remember her kindly services. She had been
a devoted laborer in the Mexican mission in the
Relief Society, Young Ladies Improvement and
Primary Associations, advocating the principles of
the everlasting Gospel and bearing a faithful
testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet
Joseph Smith and the establishment of the
Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth in these
last days. She was an intelligent woman well in-
formed in the doctrines of Christ and the Bible
and Book of Mormon Scriptures, and the life of
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Her lectures were al-
ways interesting and instructive.
	Her funeral obsequies were held on Sunday,
Dec. 15th, in the Jaurez ward school house. The
officers and members of Y. L M. I. and Primary
Associations met at her residence and the children
sang the Primary hymn, “Great Shepherd of the
Sheep.” Then a procession was formed to the
school house. Bishop George W. Sevey presided.
The house was filled to overflowing, the Relief
Society, Young Ladies’ Improvement and Primary
Associations being fully represented with all the
officers and members. The choir sang the
hymn: “Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
their wearied bodies down.” Patriarch William
R. R. Stowell offered prayer. Choir sang: “It is
well.” Counselor Miles P. Romney and Elder
Edward Stevenson preached the funeral discourse.
Their remarks were full of consolation and en-
couragement, as they testified to the faithful
labors of the departed, the value of a well spent
life and the certain recompense of reward in a
glorious resurrection. The choir sang: “Nearer
my God to Thee.” Benediction was pronounced
by Elder Miles P. Romney. Then the congrega-
tion took a last look at the calm, pale face of the
deceased, and a long procession followed to the
graveyard, where the body was consigned to the
tomb, Bishop George W. Sevey offering the
dedicatory prayer.
	A great deal of affectionate sympathy and con-
dolence have been manifested to the family by the
Saints, for her loss is a public one, she was be-
loved by all.
