MRS. E. B. WELLS.

			DETROIT, Mich.,
					Jan. 8, 1896.
Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of Utah,
	Salt Lake City:
	Dear Sir—At a mass meeting of women
held in this city yesterday to celebrate the
admission of Utah into the Union, with
full suffrage for women, I was commissioned
to convey to you the congratulations of
Detroit women that Utah has enrolled her-

[Column 2]
self among the states that guarantee to all,
within her borders, political equality with-
out distinction of sex, thus proclaiming to
the world that the children of Utah shall be
born of free mothers.
	The example of Utah must help to hasten
the day of the general enfranchisement of
women, and that happy day when intelli-
gence and morality shall altogether dis-
place brute force, ignorance and intrigue in
the government of our beloved country.
	Hoping that your high office as the first
Governor of the new State may bring honor
to your name, and that the commonwealth
under our control may experience increased
prosperity,
			I am, cordially, 
				HARRIET J. BOUTELL.
			TO MRS. WELLS.
			DETROIT, Jan. 8, 1896. 
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Salt Lake City:
	Dear Madame—The women of the Equal
Suffrage Association, of the Independent
Women Voters’ Association, and of the
Temperance Unions of this city, celebrated
on Jan. 7 the admission of Utah into the
galaxy of really free states. We rejoiced
that Statehood brought political freedom to
the women as well as the men of Utah, and
we predict for a State entering the Union
under such happy auspices, such prosperity
as it richly deserves. To the women of
Utah we look for such dignity and discre-
tion in the discharge of their new duties
that we may be able to point to them as
exemplars, and as an earnest of what may
be accomplished by the help of women.
We have all confidence in them, for we be-
lieve that it is the universal desire of the
woman-heart to promote justice, peace,
temperance, chastity and all that makes for
the uplifting of humanity.
	In the name of the women of Detroit, I 
send to all the women of Utah, and
especially to those who have labored for 
this great achievement, joyful congratula-
tions and hearty good wishes for the success
of all they may undertake.
			Fraternally, 
				(Mrs) H. J. Boutell.

