MADAME D’ARBLAY.

	AT Lynn, in the far off English Co. of
Shropshire in 1752, was born in a quiet
unassuming little cottage, the woman who 
did for the English world of fiction, what
Jeremy Collier did for the English drama,
but did it in a better way, by writing the
first successful English novel, ever written 
and given to the world by a woman.
	Frances Burney the daughter of Charles
Burney the village organist. The Burneys’
were of Irish origin and descended from
the McBurneys, a family at one time
possessed of plenty of means and good
possition in the county. The McBurnys'
ruined themselves through rivalry and in-
ternal jealousies. James, the heir appar-
ent, got himself disinherited through a
runaway match with an actress and his
father revenged himself on his disobedient
boy by marrying the cook. The cook gave
birth to a son named Joseph who succeeded
to the family estates, ran through them
with surprising alacrity, squandered the
family ducats and was soon as poor as his
disinherited brother, and both were forced
to earn their bread. Joseph turned dancing
master and James struck the “Mack” off
his name and set up as a portrait painter,
he was the father of Charles Burney the
organist at Lynn.
	Charles was apprenticed to a celebrated
musician in London and became very suc-
cessful, with a brilliant career before him;
but his health failed and he was obliged
to leave the city and accepted the position
of organist at Lynn. Little Frances’s
mother died when she was a baby, and she
seems to have been in childhood a com-
plete little vagabond, she never had a
teacher or governess, was called “a dunce”
by her brothers and sisters, and at eight
years of age could neither read, or write nor
knew her letters.
	The degree of “Dr. of music” was con-
fered upon Charles Burney by the university
of Oxford and in 1760 he moved back to
London and took up his residence on the
south side of Leicester Square in a house,
her biographer says “that will be famous as
long as our Island retains any traces of
civilization for it was the home of Newton.”
	Dr. Burney obtained pupils in some of the
best families and about this time wrote
“the History of Music” gaining for him-
self a place among men of letters and was
able to support his family comfortably.
Although he loved, petted and carressed
his little daughter, he never gave her the
slightest care. The other children were
sent to Paris to be educated, but the father
thought that if Frances was educated in a
Catholic school, she would be perverted
from the Prostestant faith, kept her at home
to run riot in the streets, play with the
pauper children in the neighborhood and
mix freely with butler, groom and waiting
maids. When fourteen she learned to
read and one of her sisters taught her how
to write. Her father had a large library of
mixed books, but the collection contained
but a single novel—Fieldings “Amelia.” 
From childhood to womanhood the little


[Column 1]
Frances was picking up an education, better
than classical culture, and storing her mind
from the great book of human nature.
	She was a shy, silent child, never speak-
ing unless spoken to, but gifted with quick
observation and ready wit. Dr. Burney’s
position was peculiar, he belonged by birth
and fortune to the middle class, yet few nobles
could assemble in grand palaces, so mixed
varied and distinguished guests as flocked
to his house night after night. He had
won Johnson’s heart by praises of the
English Dictionary. David Garrick loved
him and Macaulay gives a charming picture
of Garrick in the Burney Nursery—exhibit-
ing all his power of mimicry for the amuse-
ment of the little Burneys, shuddering and
crouching as if he saw a ghost, scaring
them by raving like a maniac and then be-
coming an auctioneer, a chimney sweep or
an old woman and making them laugh ’till
the tears ran down their cheeks.
	At the Burney tea table could be found
Colman, Twining, Hawksworth, Reynolds,
Barry and the most notable men in England,
besides the most eminent musical perform-
ers of the age. The greatest Italian sing-
ers who visited England regarded his
criticisms as fatal and exerted themselves to
obtain his favor. Rapacious singers who
never opened their mouths to sing an air,
less than fifty pounds, sang night after
night for him without a fee. Thus did the
Burneys give nightly concerts, without ex-
pense surpassing those of the nobility—
upon these occasions the quiet street where
he lived would be blocked with coroneted
chariots and the little drawing room packed
with peers and ambassadors. We get a
glimpse of one of these evenings, with the
little house packed with the titled people of
the realm, the great lion of the evening, the
mighty Russian ambassador, Count Orloff,
whose gigantic figure, blazing with jewels,
while his head brushed the ceiling and the
Burney children whispering in the corner
and behind his back with mingled admira-
tion and horror, “that he was the favored
lover of his august mistress, that he had
won the chief part in the revolution to
which she owed her throne, and that his
huge hands now glittering with diamonds,
had given the last squeeze to the windpipe
of her unfortunate husband.”
	Frances was small in figure, plain in face
and not one of her father s guests dreamed
of the material, with her keen sense of the
ridiculous she was laying up, to be given to
the world, through works of fiction in after
years. As soon as she could use her pen
she began writing little stories taking off
her father’s guests, that she would read for
the amusement of herself and sisters.
When she was fifteen her father married
again, then trouble began in the Burney
camp. The new mother discovered that
her step-daughter was a scribbler, there
followed lectures and scoldings and after a
a struggle Fanny yielded and made a bon-
fire of all her manuscripts, after this she
kept a diary and corresponded largely with
the man who did more to form her mind
than all others.
	Samuel Crisp was an old friend of her
father’s years before she was born. He was
a bright star in the most splendid circles of
London, of easy fortune, well connected,
well educated, polished manners, and rare
personal charms—his taste was sought in
literature, music, painting, architecture and
sculpture; but in an evil hour, he set up for
an author, wrote a tragedy in five acts
that was of course a failure—lost his tem-

[Column 2]
per and spirits, became a cynic, retired to a
wild tract in Surrey and became a hater of
mankind. His retirement was kept a secret
known only to the Burneys. Fannie he
regarded as his daughter and taught her to
call him “father”—From his lonely home
in the mountains. this man by his letters,
directed, formed and educated her. In 1787
under the name of Grafton, a book-seller
having been found who would take the
risk Miss Burney’s first work “Evelina”
was published, she secured £20 and the
publisher netted £15000.
	The novel was an immense success. The
book had nothing but its own merit to
push it into public favor, the author was un-
known for weeks, nothing was talked of
but “Evelina” it found its way to tables
never before polluted by a novel—when it
became known that a shy, silent girl had
produced the best work of fiction that had
appeared since the death of Smollett the
literary world went wild, the author was
called the foremost writer of the day, and
the book took its place among classical
literature. At this time sprang up that
close intimacy with beautiful Mrs. Thrale,
then at the height of her power and pros-
perity—Johnson who never had noticed
Frances when taking tea with her father,
grew very proud of her, and began by pat-
ting her on the head, raising her hand to
his lips, but soon he clasped her in his huge
arms and implored her “to be a gocd girl.”
	Miss Burney’s head was never turned by
the flattery her genius had won, she seemed
to enjoy it only for the happiness it con-
fered upon her family and Father Crisp.
She next wrote a comedy “The Wittings,”
but Samuel Crisp wiser for her than he had
been for himself read the manuscript in
his lonely home in the Surrey hills and told
her she had failed, the comedy was never
brought out and never printed—“Cecelia”
was published in 1782. Miss Burney was
then thirty and clouds were gathering thick
and fast around her, she was called to the
death bed of her best friend, Father Crisp,
and returned to the bedside of Johnson who
had been struck with paralysis and lovely
Mrs. Thrale had gone down in darkness,
worse than death. Frances found a friend
in Mrs. Delany, a lady of noble family
living under the patronage of the Royal
family. While visiting her one morning, a
stout gentlemen with a star on his breast
followed by a lady entered unannounced.
A child playing on the floor set up a cry of
“the King” and scampered for a royal
caress. It was the King of England,
Mad George the third and his wife Queen
Charlotte. Miss Burney was presented
and the Royal pair conceived a great fancy
for her. His Majesty confided to her, that
Voltaire was a monster. Rosseau he liked
better but was there ever such stuff as
Shakspeare “only one must not say so.”
Frances became fascinated by these attentions
and shortly after accepted the office of
“Keeper of the Queens’ robes.” The
Edinburg Review contains a violent attack
and McMillian lets losse all his sarcasm on
this court movement. He writes that it
was a complete separation from family and
friends, that she might as well have gone
to Calcutta or to jail for libel, that the fore-
most writer of the British isles lays aside
her pen and for the next five years employs
her talent in sticking pins—mixing snuff—
and answering a waiting woman’s bell. In
1791, Miss Burney worn in body and
mind handed in her resignation and with
the greatest difficulty got it accepted. She

[Column 3]
spent a few months in travel and then mar-
ried Alexander Richard D’Arblay, a French
Artillery officer whom the revolution had
stript of his property and made an exile—
Mr. D’Arblay’s talents in a strange country
did not make him rich and the task of
providing for the family fell upon his wife.
In 1796 “Camelia” was published in five
volumes, bringing the author a handsome
sum of money, but no increase of fame.
In 1802 General D’Arblay having given in
his allegiance to Napoleon, he was reinstated
in rank and called back to France, he
moved his family to Paris where Madame
D’Arblay lived ten years. Coming back to
England in 1814, published "The Wanderers"
in 1832 published the memories of her
father and died Jan 6th 1840. She was
eighty eight years old.
	Madame D. Arblay’s fame rests upon her
earlier works, her later publications lower
her reputation. Her style under went a
gradual and most pernicious change,
unexampled Macaulay says in literary
history—she took a bad style to France, she
brought back a worse one, during the last
forty years of her life the public knew but
little of her but at the announcment of her
death a thrill ran through many an English
heart as they thought of the little brown
haired girl, that launched her bark so fear-
lessly upon the troubled literary waters of
fiction so many years ago and sailed, so
bravely from her moorings out into the deep,
without nautical rules, chart or compass, and
forgetting to use plummet or line drifted into
shallow French waters—but nevertheless
breaking the way for brains that have given
us Mansfield Park—Jane Eyre—John Hali-
fax—Daniel Deronda and the Heavenly
Twins. I. C. B.


