OBITUARY.
	DIED Nov. 10th, 1895 in the Sixth Ward, Salt
Lake City, Utah, at her residence, Elizabeth Lee
Britton, at the age of seventy-five years, eleven
months and nine days.
	Deceased was born in Southam, Warwickshire,
England, on the 19th, of December 1819. She
was married to Elder Britton, 21st of April 1837.
Was baptized and confirmed into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, June 27, 1847.
With her husband and children left her native
land 9th of June 1851; after enduring many hard-
ships during the voyage arrived at New Orleans:
June 15th, 1851, arrived at Council Bluffs remain-
ing there nine months, during which time she suf-
fered from fever and ague; June 6th, 1852 she with
her husband and children, came to Salt Lake
City making their home in the Sixth Ward, where
she resided up to the time of her demise. She
was set apart to act as second Counselor to
President Fulmer in the Relief Society. March
1st, 1883, after the death of President Fulmer,
first Counselor Isabella West being chosen as
President, Sister Britton was chosen as first
Counselor to her in the Relief Society, to which
office she was set apart, Oct. 5th, 1892, which
position she filled at the time of her death. She


has ever been faithful in the discharge of her
duties; possessed of a kind and generous heart,
won many true friends.
	She was never tired of bearing testimony to
the divinity of the mission of Prophet Joseph
Smith and the truth of the gospel. Bishop J. C.
Watson spent many hours with her during her
illness and her testimony of the truth never
wavered, but left an impression on her children and
on those who ministered to her wants to the end.
	She was the mother of thirteen children
had fifty-four grand-children, and twenty-
one great-grand-children.
	Beloved of those who knew her she now rests
in peace awaiting the resurrection of the just.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To Elizabeth Lee Britton who departed this
life Nov. 15th, 1895, we her co laborers in meeting
assembled deem it fitting that we record our ap-
preciation of her labors.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has removed
from this sphere of action our beloved counselor
and friend, Sister Britton.
	Resolved that we do recognize in her death the
loss of a kind faithful counselor and friend; a
comforter in time of trouble, also a true Latter-
day Saint, a devoted wife and mother. We es-
teem her faithful labors and devotion to the gos-
pel as worthy of emulation to every member of
our society.
	Resolved that we sincerely sympathize with the
bereaved children and friends, in the loss of a
loving and devoted mother and sincere friend and
a true Latter-day Saint.
	Resolved that these resolutions be placed upon
the records of the Sixth Ward Relief Society and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, also one 
to her friends.
