SALT LAKE STAKE.
	THE regular quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was held
Dec. 14th, in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Present on the stand of the Cen-
tral Board, President Z. D. H. Young,
Counselors Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith: E. B. Wells, Sec., and Elmina S.
Taylor, Prest. Y. L. M. I. A. and Mary Ann
Hyde President of the Relief Society in
Sanpete Stake. Meeting commenced by
singing, “Redeemer of Israel, ” prayer by
Clara C. Cannon; continued singing, “O
give me back my Prophet dear.” Roll
called, forty-one branches represented.
Minutes of the morning session of the prev-
ious conference read and approved. President
Horne was more than pleased to see so many
present and so many societies represented,
we should not allow ourselves to be
negligent in attending to our duties, and in
order to have wisdom and judgment we
should come together and receive such in-
struction as should come to us from time to
time. The presidents should see that the
teachers who are really missionaries are
prompt and faithful in performing their
duties; they should never indulge in gos-
sip, and always discourage it in others as
well as the spirit of fault-finding, doing all
they can to bring harmony and peace: let
us be humble and prayerful that we may
retain the spirit and blessings of the Gos-
pel.
	Verbal reports of the different wards
were then called for; first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth,
tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth,
eighteenth and North Jordan Wards were
reported as being in excellent working order.
Sister E. Pixton made some very encourag-
ing remarks, and urged the sisters to warn
the mothers to look after the young, and
protect them from the many evils that are
among us.
	Meeting closed by singing Doxology.
Prayer by President M. I. Horne.
	Afternoon session convened at 2. p. m.
commenced by singing, “O ye mountains
high.” Prayer by Sister Webb. Singing,
“O say what is truth.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the previous confer-
ence read and approved. The Riverton,
Granite, Pleasant Green, Union, Big Cot-

[Column 2]
ton Wood, West Jordan, Center, Sandy,
Mill Creek, South Cotton Wood, Draper,
Farmer’s, Hunter and East Mill Creek were
reported.
	President M. I. Horne was greatly
pleased and encouraged with the report
which had been given and encouraged the
sisters to be constant and attentive in per-
forming their labors.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards spoke at
some length upon the great advantage of
the work accomplished through our society,
there were very few who are so infirm but
that they can do some good to others as
well as the improvement we need for our-
selves. The Lord will strengthen us if we
will only endeavor to serve him and perform
that work which is expected of us in ad-
ministering comfort and consolation to the
distressed, afflicted and those who are cast
down.
	President M. A. Hyde said, “we have
been very highly favored in being here to-
day to hear such words of love and en-
couragement. I find the same spirit of
union among the sisters of our society
wherever I go. Yet while we are enjoy-
ing this spirit, we should not forget, that
there are many influences here in Zion, and
have a watch care over our sons and
daughters; and try to keep them pure and
spotless from the sins of the world.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said, "I trust we all
feel and realize the great blessings we have;
this is a time when we need to be prayerful,
that we may perform the important duties
which devolve upon us, we do need the
spirit of the Lord to guide us under all cir-
cumstances. How I wish all the sisters
of this stake were here today to partake of
the blessings that have been received, for
they would be better prepared to go on
with their work.
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks and urged the secretaries to be
prompt in sending their six months reports
in after Dec. 31st.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Meeting closed by singing, “Praise to the
man who communed” etc. Prayer by Coun-
selor Annie T. Hyde.
