Greetings
1936 is going?1937 is nearly here! We are nearing another milestone?a time when we pause a moment to evaluate the past, to be thankful for all the lessons the Old Year has taught, and for the shining hopes the New Year brings. We are thankful that all the riches of faith and love and life, which came to us in the Old Year, can be carried over into the New, for out of the past will grow the strength needed for the future.
THE past year has been one of remarkable growth. The loyalty and devotion of the Stake and Ward Officers and Class Leaders have resulted in more of our union Meetings becoming real preparation meetings, and thus in the lessons given in each organization there has been added inspiration which has carried over into real living. Increased participation in lesson discussion on the part of Relief Society members has resulted in growth, for where there is action there is development. There has been an increase in the number of houses visited by the visiting teachers?which means that the spiritual message which they carry has touched more hearts. Our Magazine Agents have done wonderful work, and the Magazine, with its spiritual and cultural messages, is now being read in 41,500 homes.
THE response of the women to the call for aid in the Church Security Program has been wonderful. One can hardly believe that busy mothers and home makers could do so much. But when we love, we serve, and when we serve our love increases. So we are nearer today than before in keeping the first and greatest commandment?"Thou shalt love the Lord Thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy strength and with all thy mind: and thy neighbor as thyself."
OUR hearts have been touched by the singing of the "Singing Mothers." We appreciate the effort they have made to prepare for that sweet service which is so needed, for our Heavenly Father says: "The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads."
WE wish also at this time to pay tribute to another group of Relief Society workers?the Relief Society husbands, for without their encouragement, cooperation and unselfish help the work could not be carried on.
 
AND so we face the New Year with a glow of anticipation of greater work yet to do. Let us get a glorious view of the New Year's work, knowing where we want it to lead, in what direction we want it to go, that our efforts may be purposeful?but always with a prayer in our hearts for inspiration that if there is anything our Father in Heaven would like us to learn, anything He would like us to do, that we will not miss it.
THERE are many miles that stretch between the Relief Society organizations of