Hazel H. Greenwood
By Ruby W. Henderson
She was tall, her wondrous beauty of soul Enhanced and animated her stately mien. You felt her strength like unto the granite Of the hills around her childhood home.
Her genial humor was like the sparkling waters Of our crystalline mountain lakes. She had the courage and fortitude of a cedar That grows on the jutting cliff.
She had the sympathy and understanding Of a heart beaten upon by many sorrows. Her arms were ever lifted up toward the light. She gave freely of her splendid powers That good might triumph.
She was a leader, teacher, wife, and mother; Yet with all, she was so sweet, so dear a friend. ?Nellie O. Parker.
THE above lines written for Sister Hazel Hill Greenwood beautifully express the thoughts of the many friends who knew her and loved her dearly. Her untimely death which occurred November 28, 1936, marks the passing of one of the most prominent, active, and beloved women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and of the State of Utah.
Her activities were varied and versatile. She never failed to give her best to any task assigned her or any duty devolving upon her. She measured up to the very highest as a daughter, sister, wife, mother, friend, church and civic worker.
I loved this friend of mine with a deep and glowing love. We spent many wonderful, joyous hours together. They were profitable hours, too, for she brought me a rich store of knowledge and understanding. I shall always treasure the memory of her adorable smile as she came to the door of my home, and when I opened it she had some witty remark so that there was always a laugh and a tender word of greeting at her entrance. We never parted that I did not offer a little prayer of thanksgiving for the close association of so noble and brilliant and tender a friend. To me her friendship was priceless.
I knew her innermost thoughts and ambitions. She was very humble and always underestimated her own abilities. She was deeply religious, with an abiding faith in God's purposes and His eternal justice. Her heart was tender and forgiving. Through all her sorrows and disappointments she showed a spiritual quality that was inspiring. In making adjustments she went on with head up, accepting the inevitable, believing in life, and grasping opportunities that one of a less courageous spirit would have insisted did not exist. I never knew her to be bitter or unforgiving. She was a happy, lovable disposition, wanting so to be kind and making other people happy. Yet in militant mood she was royal, and could fight
 
for right and justice with all the intensity of her strong nature. I loved her in these moods. There is nothing more heartening than to see a person who has the courage of his convictions. Her faith in the Gospel helped her meet life with a determination to prepare for the life beyond. To do this Hazel followed these words of the poet:
"Let there be many windows in your soul, that all the glory of the universe may beautify it."
Her thirst for knowledge was never satiated. She studied constantly, taking Extension work and classes at the University, attending lectures, reading widely and intelligently. She believed with Longfellow that:
"The heights by great men reached and kept, Were not attained by sudden flight, But they while their companions slept Were toiling upward through the night."
HER brilliant mind gathered knowledge and sifted great truths tirelessly. One of the most beautiful companionships I have ever known was fostered between Hazel and Judge Greenwood because of this wonderful quality. They read books of philosophy, religion, fiction, travel, magazine articles, government administration, and it was a great source of satisfaction to the Judge to have such an able intellect always ready to discuss and argue over points of interest to him. She brought to the discussion a keen insight and ready wit that was a great delight to her brilliant husband. We often visited them of an evening and found them deep in a discussion of this sort, or talking over public affairs, political conditions, and government problems. Before Judge Greenwood's illness it was their custom to walk out in the early evening and call on neighbors and friends. I like to think of them together coming up the walk, Hazel so buoyant and happy, the Judge smiling. Their visit to our house was always an event, a delightful half-hour or more that left us stimulated and refreshed. Her splendid qualities of mind were only a part of the wonderful attributes that contributed to this companionship.
SHE was a comely woman and her husband was very proud of her. She was always well groomed, a good housekeeper and thrifty manager, an excellent cook, often made her own clothes; and her clever fingers fashioned lamp shades, pillows, flowers, knick-knacks of all sorts to beautify her home, adorn her person, and as gifts to her loved ones and friends. Her home was her shrine. He was proud of her accomplishments, and gave her encouragement and valuable advice and assistance in her outside activities which were many and varied. The last two years of his life he was ill, and she was untiring in her tender care and devotion to him, and when he passed on, Grant, her son, was her comfort and strength. The devotion between the two was inspiring; his thoughtful consideration of her happiness was a source of great joy and satisfaction to her. Her brothers and sisters loved her dearly. Only the Friday before she went to the hospital her brother Louis went to her home, and they went together to visit their sister, Mrs. Rockwood. Hazel told me about it and said, "We had such a good time together. I love them all so much. It's a grand privilege to be a member of a large family." Her widowed sister said, "How can I live without Hazel! She was so
HAZEL H. GREENWOOD 11
good to me." She was so good to everyone. Her own deep sorrows and disappointments gave her an understanding heart that helped her sympathize with the troubles of others.
HAZEL was a born leader and organizer. The first time I saw her she was presiding at a Parent-Teachers Meeting at the Emerson School, and I was impressed with her dignity and graciousness and strong personality. Later, it was my good fortune to be called on the Liberty Stake Relief Society Board, and I met her again as Sister Myrtle Shurtliff's secretary. When Sister Shurtliff resigned a year later, Sister Hazel H. Greenwood was called to succeed her. She chose Sister Ida D. Rees and myself as her counselors. I have been most grateful for the honor and opportunities that came to me at that time; but infinitely more grateful for the precious friendship with this noble woman that grew out of that association. The wisdom and tact with which she administered the business of the board and affairs of the Relief Society of the Stake made for perfect harmony and highest working efficiency in every phase of the work. One of her Board Members said, "She unconsciously gave out a radiant joy that leavened the entire organization and made each one of us eager to do our best in every assignment." Her ready wit and laughter have smoothed out many a strained situation. I like to remember the happy, clever fun-fests we have enjoyed together and can almost hear Hazel's hearty laugh now at some of the stunts and ridiculous games played. We came away each time loving each other and our work better.
Her call to the General Board of the Relief Society was inevitable. A woman of such outstanding qualifications of leadership and spirituality would be in a position to give invaluable service to many stakes instead of one. She accepted that call with the greatest humility and appreciation. I have heard Stake Presidents tell of the spiritual uplift, the understanding and sympathetic help she has given them in convention work with their problems. She seemed to have the faculty of glorifying the common-place and making others, no matter how humble, feel that they were worth while. She gave unstinted praise. Her charm and intellect, her deep spirituality, her refreshing sense of humor and her understanding heart have endeared her to the women of every Stake she has visited. We are told she was a most valuable committee member because of her splendid powers of concentration on the subject at hand. The members of the General Board of Relief Society loved and admired and knew her worth. They have lost a most valuable worker. At her funeral service Apostle Ballard expressed in behalf of the First Presidency and Council of Twelve a deep regret and sense of loss to the Church at her passing.
Mrs. Greenwood was elected president of the Women's Legislative Council a year ago last March, and has administered its affairs with great dignity, tact, and efficiency since assuming office. I quote from the "In Memoriam" of the Council read at Memorial services held for her Thursday, December 3, at the Hotel Utah Ballroom: "To the members of the Council Mrs. Greenwood was more than a President: she was a true friend, fair in all deliberations and decisions, an outstanding executive of rare ability, and an indefatigable worker. Harmony was always sought.
 
Her highest aspiration was for security, not only in the nation and the state, but especially of the home. To accomplish these ideals she devoted much of her life's efforts. She was unstinting in praise, reluctant to criticize, always just, sympathetic and tolerant of human frailties. The center of her spiritual life was her faith in God which was reflected in her faith in humanity."
She was an active worker in the politics of the State, being a member of the Democratic party. She and Judge Greenwood were intimately associated with the late Governor Dern during his administration, and were close friends of Governor and Mrs. Blood. In March, 1935, after the adjournment of the State Legislature the Governor's Committee of Nine began its activities. There were appointed three members from the House of Representatives, three from the Senate, and three chosen by the Governor. Because of her splendid ability and training for public service and social work, Mrs. Greenwood had the distinction of being the only woman chosen by the Governor on this committee. It was their function to study State problems and make recommendations to the next legislature. Her assignment was to investigate the private charities receiving aid or appropriations from the State. The Governor and members of the committee congratulated her on her thorough investigation and intelligent report, which was handed in only a couple of weeks before her death.
Her activities extended into study and social groups where her richness of mind and charming personality endeared her to each member. Her hosts of friends mourn her passing.
Death reaches not a spirit such as thine? It can but steal the robe that hid thy wings. Though thy warm breathing presence we resign, Still in our heart its loving semblance clings. ?Holmes.