The Seventh Writers' Conference in the Rocky Mountains
By Blanche Kendall McKey
SYLVIA CHATFIELD BATES, leader of the short story workshop group at the recent Writers' Conference held in Boulder, Colorado, made the statement that nothing better can happen to a beginning writer than the formation of a friendship with an editor. Anyone who stops to think about this assertion, no matter how inexperienced in writing he may be, can see immediately the advantages of such an association. A writer necessarily views the world from the production viewpoint; his mind is busy with problems of creation. Association with an editor shows him the other side of the fence?reveals the broad, keen, analytical angle from which the publisher not only appraises a piece of writing but also considers, as comprehensively as possible, the whole reading public. People?life?that is the subject-matter of writers; people?life?is the subject-matter of editors?but the former attempts to reflect people, while the latter strains to feed them. Singular as it may appear to many people, it was this presentation of the viewpoint of the editor, the publisher (perhaps given unconsciously), that rendered me the greatest service of the Writers' Conference.
WE scribblers of the Rocky Mountain region are an isolated group of workers. Geographically we are too far removed from the large centers to make personal contacts with men and women of vital influence in the writing field. In addition, in Utah and Idaho, we have created a type of writing of our own, one with many limitations, and no matter how deeply the writer may revere the standards and beliefs that have fostered this type, as an artist he feels a certain amount of restriction. Isolation and limitation are rather poor food for a sensitive creative spirit, and are likely to breed a feeling of hopelessness, even of artistic desolation. For while it is true that every great piece of art comes from the sacred, mysterious depths of the artist's being, it is equally true that the artist is not likely to find his own depths without the inspiration, the aid of his fellows. It is in hope of reaching someone who may have felt my own bewilderment that this article is written.
FIRST, may I present a few details? The Writers' Conference in the Rocky Mountains is sponsored late in the summer of each year by the University of Colorado at Boulder. The Conference lasts three weeks. Anyone keenly interested in writing may apply for entrance. This summer there were one hundred and twenty-nine enrolled members coming from more than thirty states. The registration fee has been fifty dollars. A manuscript bureau is conducted through which a writer may receive expert criticism and advice concerning his work. A few manuscripts yearly are selected to be taken to New York with a view to publication. If you are interested, a request sent to Dr. Edward Davison, Director Writers' Conference, Boulder, Colorado, will bring you during the winter bulletins concerning next year's meet.
THE SEVENTH WRITERS' CONFERENCE 29
NOW for some generalities. First let me give you the attitude of the promoters of the Conference toward teaching creative writing. From every indication the promoters and leaders unanimously agree that the writer must teach himself how to write his stories, poems, plays, and other creative forms, but that certain technicalities and suggestions can be given him by sympathetic more experienced writers. The noted novelist, T. S. Stribling, was very emphatic along this line, holding that the basic point of a novel is that it must be done the writer's own way, but that certain fundamental things and "Don'ts" can be given him as aids.
Another generality was the hopeful, extremely optimistic spirit exhibited toward the Western writer. To quote Mr. Stribling: "I predict that the West will be the next great, important source and place of American literature, because the West approaches the South in writability and resonance." Fulton Oursler, novelist, playwright, and editor of twelve McFadden magazines, feels that the West is an amazing source of fiction and that "writers have not scratched the surface as yet. Like New York, one can't write a novel about the West; it is the subject for a library."
An amusing generality held by nearly all the leaders is that as a rule the over-crowded writing field yields little money. The serial is the most lucrative form of fiction and next to it comes the short story. Poetry is the poorest paid medium. Indeed, the majority of writers must seek other means of support in order to be able to write.
The general attitude of the Conference leaders toward literary agents is interesting: A young or beginning writer does not need an agent. If he studies the various publications he can do as well for himself as an agent can. However, when he has advanced far enough to be, to a degree at least, in demand and to be facing the problem of contract-signing, a reliable agent will be a great ally. Writers do not need to seek agents; by the time their aid is needed the agents will be seeking the writers.
PERHAPS you are wondering how this Conference operated. The work was presented through public lectures in the Little Theatre of the campus, through round table conferences, and by means of five workshop groups meeting at different hours during the day: Poetry, led by Edward Davison; the Short Story, led by Sylvia Chatfield Bates; the Novel, led by T. S. Stribling; Playwriting, led by Carl Glick; and Miscellaneous Prose, led by Robert Penn Warren. Let me give a brief account of these five enthusiastic leaders, all outstanding figures in the fields they represent.
EDWARD DAVISON, for four years a member of the Conference staff and this year the Director of the Conference, is at present Professor of English Literature at the University of Colorado. He was one of the original group of the Saturday Reviewers and for two years edited the Wits' Weekly page of the Saturday Review of Literature. The Guggenheim Foundation awarded him a Fellowship in creative writing in 1930. He has contributed to numerous periodicals in England as well as in America. His chief volumes of prose and verse are Harvest of Youth, The Heart's Unreason, and The Ninth Witch. A native of England and known all
 
over the United States as a lecturer, Dr. Davison possesses a dynamic, sympathetic personality which draws people to him. He holds that poetry is not something written in a book; it is much greater, more significant than that, being a quality in human experience. When all our being?mental, physical, spiritual?is alive we are experiencing poetry. When the experience brings spiritual insight and we have the power to express what we feel and comprehend, we become poets. So poetry as experience belongs to all people; and out of the universal springs the particular. "Great poetry can be read at any time and in any age," said Dr. Davison; "and poetry, at its very greatest, is always intelligible."
MISS SYLVIA CHATFIELD BATES is the author of six published novels, the most recent of which is I Have Touched the Earth. For six years the Fiction Editor of The Woman's Home Companion, she wrote serials and short stories for the Companion, Scribners, and other national magazines. For the past ten years Miss Bates has been in charge of the Fiction and Short Story Workshop at New York University. This remarkable teacher feels that a writer must be first a person. The qualities of a real artist she gives as being: integrity, sincerity, spontaneity, innocence of eyes, integration of the soul. By the latter is meant a person's ability to pull himself together, to draw the various conflicts of his being into a unity which is strong. "The artist is emotional, childlike. He observes stern loyalty to truth. If the artist is a writer he has a feeling for words. They thrill him?both through meaning and sound. Then he must have the ability to transmute emotions through these symbols. The unpublished genius is the rarest thing on earth." Miss Bates is strong for the plotted story, feeling that all people like a pattern, perhaps because life is so patternless and incomplete. In art we strive to make a whole.
T. S. STRIBLING is the author of thirteen published novels, including his trilogy, The Forge, The Store, The Unfinished Cathedral. For The Store he was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1933. His most recent novel, The Sound Wagon, was published this year. At one time Mr. Stribling practiced law. During the past year he has been instructor in novel writing at Columbia University. In associating with Mr. Stribling perhaps one appreciates most his kind, delightful sense of humor. In speaking of the theme of his trilogy, Mr. Stribling holds that catching glimpses of eternity are impractical as writing material in our mechanical world. "Our social, technological, and moral set-up makes a social religion, rather than a spiritual religion, necessary. We cannot be distracted nor take time to conceive what disembodiment would be like. Our physical, mental, and moral energies are set on making social religion a going concern. We cannot get our hands nor our brains on the intangible. Such is the spirit of the times, against which neither you nor I dare struggle with a hope of success." In discussing his political novel, The Sound Wagon, Mr. Stribling expressed himself as favoring the establishment of a political school in each State, the school to be free from politics. Cadets would be appointed in much the same way as they are chosen for Annapolis. He believes that graduates of the political college would inevitably form a code as honorable
THE SEVENTH WRITERS' CONFERENCE 31
as that of the man from Annapolis or West Point.
CARL GLICK, successful playwright, critic, and writer of short stories depicting Chinese life in America, holds the record of having built the first city-owned, city-built Little Theatre in the United States, which is in San Antonio and was opened in 1930. Of the Little Theatre movement he says: "The most amazing thing in the history of the theatre is happening in America today and is found in the Little Theatre movement, which has taken this most democratic art of all and has given it back into the hands of the people. We all love spoken drama so much that we are going out to get it. We are producing our own plays all over the United States in more than two thousand Little Theatres. Don't go to Broadway! Stay home! Write and produce plays in your own city, for there you will find the theatre of tomorrow." Mr. Glick, before devoting his entire time to writing, was a member of the English faculty of the University of Colorado. Speaking from the viewpoint of the social worker and the creative artist, he praised the Federal theatres all over the country, expressing appreciation to the Government for promoting this altruistic movement.
ROBERT PENN WARREN, poet, critic, and editor of the Southern Review, teaches creative writing at Louisiana State University. Although a young man barely out of his twenties, Mr. Warren last spring was awarded the Houghton Mifflin Literary Fellowship out of eight hundred and thirty-six applicants. He is the author of a volume of poems and a biography of John Brown. In speaking of poetry and our machine age he said: "Possibly the entire purpose and function of the poet today may be to save us from a super-scientific world. What time is going to say about modern poetry I can only conjecture; but it does satisfy something which the world H. G. Wells depicts in The World to Come does not."
HOW inadequate this brief summary is! And yet we must hurry on. In addition to these five workshop leaders some fifteen or twenty speakers and author-advisers participated in the work of the various groups. There is not time to present them here, but I wish to refer to a few.
C. E. SCOGGINS is an author familiar to readers of The Saturday Evening Post, for which magazine he writes exclusively. In a discussion concerning truth in fiction Mr. Scoggins said: "A truth depends upon a person's background. What is true to one is false to another. In fiction we try to give an impression of truth to the kind of audience our readers are. We attempt to transfer to the reader's mind the impression which life has given us. Fiction is the stripping of truth and the adding of overtones."
Martha Foley has endeared herself to hundreds of beginning writers. She and her husband, Whit Burnett, in 1930 established Story, a magazine which makes its selection on the merit of the material submitted, not on the reputation of the author. Miss Foley, herself a recognized writer as well as editor, said: "The most significant development in the short story is the growth of social consciousness. There has been social awareness before our time, but our period is differentiated in that the writings are definitely on the side of the people. The short story is not only an art form, but it is a part of the life of a people. Its
 
vitality and importance are being felt all over America and in Europe."
Lenora Mattingly Weber, author of three Western juvenile books and many short stories, came to the Conference to talk about juvenile tales but was way-laid by questions concerning the confession story. Mrs. Weber contended that sex stories, as a confession type, are no longer in demand. She herself has won one one-thousand dollar prize, two five-hundred dollar prizes, and three two-hundred-and-fifty dollar prizes and not one of her stories was based upon sex. Her formula for a successful confession story is: "Let them do wrong for twelve pages and then repent for twelve pages. The greater the mistake the deeper the repentance, and so the stronger the story." Mrs. Weber sent regularly to The Ladies' Home Journal for eleven years before she had an acceptance.
Fulton Oursler, editor of twelve McFadden publications and the author of Behold This Dreamer, The World's Delight, Joshua Todd, The Spider, and other novels and plays, gave the writers encouragement in several ways. He offered substantial prizes for fiction; his own sympathetic personality and understanding viewpoint inspired confidence; his message to beginning writers was optimistic. His farewell words were: "I think I know of no courage greater than that of a writer who keeps trying again and again, meeting failure after failure?the writer who goes back to his task though beaten at the time, who tries to put joy and entertainment into his writing though working with a broken heart, the man who will not stop until he has reached the top."
IT is very hard indeed to know where to stop?these writers are so interesting and have such inspiring messages! I cannot close without mentioning two others; it would be a pity to overlook their contributions. Although it was Robert Penn Warren who told us that we know there is a God because such things as poetry exist, and other speakers' words were graced by inner light, it was perhaps J. McBride Dabbs who lent the greatest spirituality to the Conference. There is no time here to develop his philosophy; let me quote him briefly: "I am convinced that our modern industrial life is adverse to the religious life of today. My general belief is that religious values are extremely weak in our churches. Consequently the average person thinks he does not have religious values. In my opinion they exist, scattered here and there through life. I believe man needs to be aware of these moments which are religious and cherish them. Religion is not a matter of Sundays, but of a series of moments. Yet the working man cannot live a significant religious life moment to moment because of our industrial life. Unfortunately, the man exists for the machine, not the machine for the man. Man has been made an automaton by the very complexity of life. If we hope to make improvement, we must realize that material products of industry are not as important as human values." Mr. Dabbs' new book, The Religion of a Countryman, will be released by the publishers very soon.
A BOOK of strong appeal, especially to us children of pioneers, is The Westward Star, which was reviewed by the author, Frank Ernest Hill. It is a novel in verse depicting life on the plains in 1847. Although the Mormon pioneers are given just a page or two, and the
THE SEVENTH WRITERS' CONFERENCE 33
company in question settle in California, we who are spiritually tied to desert tales thrill with this story, told in charmingly simple words. In concluding Mr. Hill reveals the mind of one of his chief characters.
"Dreamers of kingless kingdoms!? Now they have seized the land From shore to farthest shore. But, Sarah thought, the land had seized them too, Taking it to them more and more Through the slow years with tightening hand."
Perhaps you know a personal story of someone who changed himself in conquering a wilderness and helping to build an empire.
THE spirit of the Conference was not all work and no play. There were social events, one of which will long remain in the memory of all participants. One calm evening the Chamber of Commerce entertained the Colorado Authors' League and the staff and members of the Writers' Conference at a beef steak fry on the top of Flagstaff Mountain, which towers above Boulder a thousand or two feet. On the very edge of the mountain the CCC boys have built of rock and stone a circular amphitheatre with a small stage at one side and a round enclosure for a bonfire in the center. An immense red moon arose before the light of the sunset had died out. The fire of pine logs blazed high. Breath of living pines mixed with the scent of the burning. Below were the arcs of Boulder; far-off the lights of Denver; above were many stars.
I KNOW that I should draw conclusions. Let me merely say that I feel as a stranger does when he installs a telephone. He will not use the instrument very much; he has few friends to call him. But he has established possible contact. Nor is that contact merely physical. There is a spiritual essence that comes from feeling with people, from catching the vision of great minds, an essence that lifts and makes one feel that, although he is very small in the writing world, he has a place somewhere?that, because he has much to give by way of emotion, he is really a part of what we vaguely call "artistic America."