2 Editorial Health HEALTH is a priceless boon. People today realize more than ever before that a great deal of illness results from not adhering more strictly to the laws of health. Sins of omission and commission in this field are manifold. Especially is it vital that children's health should be safeguarded. There was a time when parents deliberately exposed their children to disease, their theory being that if contracted while young the cases would be light and that they would be immune when older when the attacks would be more severe. This fallacy has been strongly advised against by physicians. Mothers are urged to guard their little ones against these children's diseases, as it is affirmed the longer they can go without contracting them the better. Some mothers are very careless and needlessly expose their children's playmates by not keeping their own children home when coming down with the disease, while others are careless in observing quarantine regulations. Many children have died and some have suffered permanent injury through some mother taking her sick child where others have contracted the disease. Being sorry or saying "I didn't think" will not atone. Physicians and research laboratories are doing everything they can to cut down sickness, and remarkable success is being attained in some lines. Some diseases have been largely controlled. In others no progress has been made, and some illnesses are on the increase. The Utah State Planning Board issued in April, 1936, a valuable book entitled Health Conditions and Facilities of Utah. It is pointed out that in the Beehive State, teeth defects top the list of physical defects among children. We are glad our organizations in many places are cooperating with parents in removing this defect. While in Utah smallpox has been the lowest in its history during the past year, this disease may be eliminated if universal vaccination is resorted to. The book also states that, "No child in Utah need have diphtheria. This goal could be realized by the immunization of all children between the ages of six months and two years." Here again our organizations have aided in making many children immune. There were more cases of scarlet fever in Utah in 1935 than for the combined total of the previous seven years, and the death rate was higher than any year since 1911. Physicians are inclined to believe that the mildness of the cases is the primary factor in causing the rise of morbidity rates. So often these mild cases are not detected, properly diagnosed, and children are either careless or maliciously permitted to go to school or to mingle with other children. Every few years the death rate from measles and whooping cough reaches an exceptionally high peak in Utah. There is a great need for mothers to be educated, so that they will isolate their infants during periods when whooping cough is prevalent. "Acquired heart disease is most frequently due to improper habits of living and to infections, particularly those of the rheumatic group. Other diseases often leave heart trouble in their wake." While we do not have similar reports from other states where our people reside we feel sure the conditions are relatively the same and we urge our members to do all in their power to prevent the spread of disease. We also hope that our organizations will do as much as their funds will permit in aiding parents who are financially unable to minister to their children's health needs. Happy New Year O our many readers we extend heartiest wishes for a happy, prosperous New Year filled with good deeds and worth while accomplishments. This is a wonderful time in which ot live. So many changes arrest attention and the future doubtless will bring undreamed of wonders. The Church is marching forward. New wards and stakes are being organized, new buildings erected, beautiful monuments dedicated and a great Security Program is being launched that is challenging the attention of the world. The members of the Church are showing renewed interest as seen in the increased payment of tithes and offerings and in their more faithful adherence to all the Gospel requirements. We congratulate our stakes on the excellence of the conventions that have just been completed. The general preparation and the topics given have been better than ever before. Reports reach us from all parts of the Church that the lesson work is being carried forward better this year than ever in our history. Our women have accomplished herculean tasks in their great desire to aid the Security Program. With deep gratitude we acknowledge this faithful work and pray that our Father will make our officers and members adequate for whatever tasks await them in the future.