[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Barnett]
[Work Meeting — Operating the Household Vesta Barnett]
and  in  great  mercy,  o\er  all  his  works. 
She  slipped  out  of  bed  and 
humbly  asked  forgiveness  of  the 
Lord  for  the  wa\  she  had  praved 
previously.     She  then  proceeded  to 
Page  765.

766 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1958 
pray  for  guidance  in  the  solution  of  our  hearts  the  thought,  ''Teach  me 
her  problem,  yielding  herself  com-  thy  way,  O  Lord  .  .  /'  (Psalms 
pletely  to  God's  will.  For  the  first  27:11),  rather  than  ''let  me  have" 
time  in  months  a  peace  came  into  my  way.  We  must  remember  that 
her  soul.  Her  problem  was  never  the  Lord  is  our  ever-lo\'ing  Father 
solved  in  the  way  she  originally  in  heaven  who  is  interested  in  our 
wanted,  but  she  knew  the  Lord's  well-being.  He  knows  the  full  pur- 
solution  was  the  right  one.  A  year  pose  of  our  lives  and  can  see  the 
or   two  later  she   could  see  clearly  beginning  and  the  end.     If  we  are 
the  wisdom  of  the  Lord's  answer  to 
her  problem. 
We  all  need  to  search  our  souls 
and  make  sure  we  do  not  fall  into 
the  error  of  seeking  to  counsel  the 
Lord.  When  we  pray  to  our  LIea\'- 
enly  Father  we  should  approach  him 
in  humilitv  and  in  obedience  with 
complete  faith  and  trust  in  his  all- 
seeing  wisdom. 
We  should  seek  the  Lord's  coun- 
sel in  all  things  with  the  full  assur- 
ance that  he  knows  what  is  best  for 
us.    We  should  have  uppermost  in 
faithful  and  prayerful  and  submit 
oursehes  to  his  will,  the  Lord  will 
direct  our  paths  for  good. 
Jesus,  the  supreme  model,  gave  us 
the  true  approach.  Although  he 
possessed  all  knowledge  and  wis- 
dom, still  he  prayed  constantly  to 
his  Father  in  heaven,  acknowledg- 
ing his  Father's  superiority  in  all 
things.  Christ's  verv  life  exempli- 
fied his  meaningful  words  when  he 
said  to  his  Father,  "...  not  my  will^ 
but  thine,  be  done"  (Luke  22:42). 
vi/ork    1 1  ieeting — Managing  a  Home 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  ^^^^rds  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Discussion  5— Operating  the  Household 
Vesta  Barnett 
For  Tuesday,  February  10,  1959 
Objecti\'e:  To  recognize  that  monev  management  is  a  problem  in  all  homes,  but 
when  considered  by  the  family  under  parental  direction,  it  can  be  worked  out  to  ad- 
vantage. 
A/fANAGEMENT 
income    is    recognized 
of    the   family 
by    all 
home-management  experts  as  the 
most  difficult  task  in  the  manage- 
ment area.  The  battle  is  half  won 
if  a  good  attitude  toward  money  is 
shared  by  all  members  of  the  family. 
A  happy  working  partnership  of 
husband  and  wife  and  a  feeling  of 
unity  among  the  children  will  help 
in  money  management,  as  well  as 
in  every  other  place. 
Such  a  plan  should  provide  for 
major  family  expenses  and  for  indi- 
vidual responsibility  in  spending.  It 
should  take  care  of  personal  allow- 
ances, education,  and  cultural  and 
spiritual  growth  opportunities  for 
members.  It  should  provide  for  the 
daily  needs— food,  clothing,  shelter.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
767 
recreation,  and  health.  It  should 
also  pro\  idc  for  tithing,  Church  con- 
tributions, and  sa\  ings.  A  financial 
plan  is  an  indi\  idual  faniilv  problem, 
because  no  two  families  are  exactly 
alike  in  make-up,  desires  (goals), 
likes,  or  dislikes. 
The  Jniporfaiice  of  Keeping  Records 
Ahinv  recent  studies  in  sociology 
sho\y  that  better  family  relation- 
ships exist  \yhen  the  family,  under 
parental  f;uidance,  talk  o\er  their 
finances  and  plan  together.  Experi- 
ences suitable  to  the  child's  age  le\  el 
can  help  him  gain  an  understanding 
of  the  worth  of  money  and  familiar- 
ize him  with  fannly  policies  in  rela- 
tion to  its  use.  For  this  reason  the 
allowance  is  a  commonly  accepted 
method  of  teaching  children  how  to 
handle  money. 
An  account  keeping  system  makes 
it  possible  for  us  to  cxaluatc  our 
spending;  to  recognize  our  strengths 
and  our  weaknesses  in  handling 
money.  A  good  account  keeping 
S}stem  is  simple,  adequate,  flexible, 
and  conxenicnt.  Nhmy  families  pre- 
fer to  make  their  own  account  book. 
If  it  is  to  be  of  \alue  it  should  be 
kept  dail\.  Checking  the  planned 
monthh  expenditures  can  be  a  yal- 
uable  experience  in  famil\-  co-opera- 
tion, when  the  family  sits  down  at 
the  close  of  each  month  to  balance 
the  books.  When  the  family 
finances  become  a  family  concern, 
no  one  member  will  demand  more 
for  selfish  reasons  than  the  family 
budget  can  stand. 
Making  a  Budget 
'I'he  financial  plan  (budget)  for 
a  family  is  just  as  important  as  a 
road  map  is  to  the  trayeler.  When 
you  sit  down  together  and  estimate 
the  money  you  will  be  spending  for 
the  next  se\eral  months,  you  c;et  a 
better  understanding  of  the  family 
financial  problems.  1  he  family  ac- 
count records  for  past  \cars  are  the 
best  possible  quide  in  making  a 
financial  estimate  for  a  new  year. 
An  account  system  can  tell  us  exact- 
ly how  much  our  \acation  cost  last 
\car,  how  much  our  food  costs  were 
for  October,  etc. 
All  thriying  businesses  operate  on 
a  planned  budget,  and  it  is  just  as 
helpful  in  famiK  finances.  The  fi- 
nancial plan  we  make  may  not  work 
out  exactly  as  planned,  but  that  is  no 
reason  for  being  discouraged.  Any 
plan  is  better  than  no  plan  at  all. 
Allocation  of  Funds 
It  is  difficult  to  say  exactly  how 
much  of  one's  income  should  be 
spent  in  the  \arious  areas.  Families 
are  different  in  so  many  ways  that 
we  can  onh  talk  about  the  mythical 
"axerage"  family  when  suggesting