[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Fiction | Title: Swift]
QJesti^'e  CJoods  for  ciun  and  QJancy^ 
Maren  E.  Hardy 
npHE  holiday  season  is  swiftly  upon  us,  and  it  goes  just  as  quickly,  leaving 
memories  of  happy  times  with  family  and  friends.  A  special  touch  to 
your  holiday  menus  lends  the  unmistakable  air  of  festivity.  Whether  it  is 
making  spiced  cider  for  the  fireside  group  or  creating  a  light  fruit  cake  for 
the  aesthetic  effect  at  your  Christmas  buffet,  you  will  enjoy  trying  some- 
thing different. 
Light  Fruit  Cake 
1   lb.  butter 
1  dozen  eggs 
2  e.  sugar 
4  c.  flour 
1   tsp.  baking  powder 
grated  rind  and  juiee  of  i  lemon 
1  lb.  Brazil  nuts  habed 
2  lbs.  white  raisins 
1   lb.  candied  eherries 
1   lb.  eandied  pineapple  in  three  colors 
1  lb.  peel  (citron  or  orange) 
few  drops  of  cinnamon  oil. 
Cut  pineapple  slices  in  eighths,  dice  peel,  lea\e  cherries  whole  and  mix  with  /4 
of  flour.  Mix  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks  then  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Add 
remainder  of  flour  sifted  \\ith  baking  powder.  Add  cinnamon  oil,  nuts,  and  fruits.  Beat 
the  egg  whites  and  add  last.  Have  four  pans  ready,  lined  with  greased  waxed  paper. 
Fill  with  batter  and  decorate  before  baking  with  whole  pecans,  cherries,  and  pineapple 
saved  out  from  batter.    Bake  at  300  degrees  for  2  hours.    Cool  on  cake  racks. 
Texas  Date  Cake  has  the  reputation  of  being  that  favorite  fruit  cake. 
Wrap  a  loaf  and  tie  with  a  red  ribbon  for  a  special  gift.  Do  the  same  with 
Cranberry  Bread. 
Texas  Date  Cake 
/4    lb.  plain  candied  pineapple  cut  in 
small  wedges 
V^    lb.  candied  cherries  halved 
1   lb.  whole  shelled  pecans 
1   lb.  dates  cut  in  fourths- 
1   c.  sugar 
1   c.  flour 
4  eggs 
2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1   tsp.  vanilla 
Beat  eggs.  Sift  flour,  sugar,  and  baking  powder  together.  Pour  over  cut  fruit  and 
nuts.  Run  hands  through  mixture  until  fruit  is  coated.  Add  beaten  eggs.  Pack  into 
greased  tube  pan  or  3  half-size  loaf  tins.  The  batter  is  stiff  so  pack  well  into  corners. 
Bake  1  hour  at  300  degrees. 
Cranberry  Bread 
1  c.  sugar  Vi  c.  orange  ]uice 
1  egg  2  tbsp.  water 
2  c.  flour  2  tbsp.  melted  butter 
1  tsp.  soda  Vi  c.  cranberries  (cut  in  half) 
Vz  tsp.  baking  powder  Vi  e.  coarsely  chopped  nuts 
V2  tsp.  salt 
Beat  egg  and  add  sugar.  Add  sifted  flour,  soda,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Add 
orange  juice  and  water,  then  melted  butter.  Add  cranberries  and  nuts.  Bake  I  hour 
and  10  minutes  at  325  degrees.  Cool  on  racks.  Wrap  in  foil  and  store  in  refrigerator. 
Makes  2  half-size  loaves. 
Page  740