[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Messages — ". . . Seek Not to Counsel Your God" ....Christine H. Robinson]
sisters  to  the  Church  Welfare  Pro-  of  the  visiting  teaching  program  in 
gram  upon  assignment  of  Relief  So-  meeting   our   responsibilities    along 
ciety.      There    were    275,469    visits  these  lines.    Visiting  teaching  is  far 
made  to  the  sick  and  homebound,  more   than   friendly   calling  at   the 
almost  20,000  more  than  the  previ-  homes.    It  is  more  than  the  discus- 
ous  year.    There  were  approximate-  sion  of  the  spiritual  message  in  the 
ly    30,000    eight-hour   days   bedside  homes,  important  as  this  is  regarded 
nursing  care  given  the  sick  on  a  vol-  by  all  of  us.     Visiting  teaching  is 
unteer    basis    upon    assignment    of  monthly     coverage     of     Latter-day 
Relief     Society     presidents.       Yet,  Saint  homes  designed  primarily  to 
when  measured  against  the  need  for  keep  ward  Relief  Society  presidents, 
these  services,  I  am  wondering  if  we  and    through    them    ward    bishops, 
are  doing  all  we  could  do,  or  all  we  apprised   of  the  needs   of   families 
should  do.    Never  before  in  history  within  the  respective  wards,  so  that 
have    there   been    so    many   home-  none  shall  go  unattended.    Visiting 
bound,      particularly      homebound  teaching    figures    for   last   year   are 
aged,  among  us.    Are  we  exercising  heartening  insofar  as  the  number  of 
sisterly  watchcare?     Are  we  calling  women  engaged  in  the  program  is 
sufficiently   often    to    cheer    them?  concerned,  and  the  number  of  visits 
Are  we  willingly  rendering  them  lit-  made.     There  were  75,928  visiting 
tie,  necessary  personal  services  such  teachers,  constituting  41.39  per  cent 
as  doing  a  little  shopping  for  them,  of    the    membership,    who    made 
writing  a  letter  for  them,  or  similar  3,125,813    visits,   or   an    average    of 
kindnesses?     Are  we  willingly  giv-  8.49    per    cent   to   each    Latter-day 
ing  a  day  now  and  then  to  put  their  Saint  family. 
homes  in  order  as  desired?  With  regard  to  our  activities  in