[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 18 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Hardy]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Festive Foods for Fun and Fancy Maren E. Hardy]
NORTHW  ES TERN  STATES  MISSION  RELIEF  SOCIETY  FEATURES  MODEL 
WORK  MEETING  AT  ANNUAL  LEADERSHIP  CONFERENCE, 
April  26th  and  27th,  1958,  Portland,  Oregon 
Left  to  right:  Lois  S.  Rawls;  Ethel  L.  Peasnall;  Velma  Page;  June  Brown;  Loudene 
Klock;  Syhia  Spooner;  Ruby  Odd;  Francis  Powell;  Melba  Burris;  Or\illa  Rosille;  Calysta 
Stratford,  First  Counselor;  Nedra  Pollock;  Effie  K.  Driggs,  President,  Northwestern 
States  Mission  Relief  Society;  Beulah  Murry;  Grace  Bloom;  Edna  Orave;  Anna  M. 
Stone;  Betty  MacDonald;  Doris  MacDonald;  Evelyn  DuRitte;  Alta  Wilson;  Ruth  L. 
Long,  work  meeting  leader;  Sonoma  Toolson,  Second  Counselor. 
Sister  Driggs  reports:  "This  photograph  was  taken  at  the  work-day  session  of 
the  conference.  The  program,  planned  by  Sonoma  Toolson,  work  director,  was 
carried  out  as  a  model  \\ork  meeting.  This  session  commenced  with  a  twenty-minute 
discussion  and  concluded  with  refreshments,  featuring  favorite  recipes  which  were 
simple  and  beautifully  arranged  on  a  table  decorated  in  the  blue  and  gold  colors  of 
Relief  Society. 
"The  sisters  were  instructed  how  to  renew  and  restyle  old,  but  usable,  clothing. 
The  entire  instruction  was  based  on  the  theme  pictured  at  the  front  of  the  photograph 
'Let's  Be  Wise  and  Economize — New  Ways  With  Castaways  —  Restyle  and  Wear 
Awhile.' 
"Shown  on  the  large  table  are  a  pattern  and  arrangement  of  material  from  a  man's 
castaway  suit  which  had  been  ripped  apart,  washed,  and  pressed.  The  pattern  was  basted 
on  r^dy  for  cutting. 
"Sister  Ruth  Long  of  the  Mid-Columbia  District,  and  work  director  of  the 
mission,  cut  and  restyled  a  beautiful  suit,  size  10,  from  a  man's  suit,  size  40.  This 
suit  is  displayed  on  the  left  of  the  small  table  in  the  louer  right-hand  corner  of  the 
picture.  Alany  other  stylish  articles  were  fashioned  and  put  on  display,  as  well  as  gift 
items  for  bazaars  and  work  meeting  projects. 
"All  districts  except  Alaska  were  represented  at  the  two-day  conference. 
"The  Sunday  morning  session  was  under  the  direction  of  the  Education  Counselor, 
Calysta  Stratford.  A  preview  of  next  year's  lessons  and  helps  in  the  preparation  of  the 
lessons  were  given.  The  Sunday  afternoon  session,  under  the  direction  of  Effie  K. 
Driggs,  President,  Northwestern  States  Mission  Relief  Society,  featured  \isiting  teach- 
ing and  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  Sister  Driggs  presented  each  leader  with  a  beauti- 
ful folder  in  which  to  file  helps  and  hints  for  the  coming  year."

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
757 
Phc)t().t;iapli   submitted   by  Annabel!  W.   Hart 
OAKLAND-BERKELEY  STAKE    (CALIEORNIA)    VISITING  TEACHERS 
HONORED  AT  CLOSING  SOCIAL,  May  16,  1958 
Ilcttic  King,  who  stands  at  the  left  in  the  back  row,  is  eighty-six  years  old,  has 
ser\ed  as  a  visiting  teacher  for  fifty-fi\e  years,  and  is  still  aeti\e  in  that  capacity.  Lena 
Klein,  seated  by  the  piano,  is  eightyfi\e  years  old  and  has  ser\ed  sixty  vcars  as  a  visiting 
teacher. 
Annabell  W.  Hart,  President,  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports: 
*'A11  thirty-one  of  the  \\omen  in  the  picture  ha\e  ser\ed  as  visiting  teachers  for  twenty- 
five  years  or  more." 
U^lyinioutn    viyintei 
Afaude  Rubin 
There  was  no  turning  back,  the  ship  had  sailed.  .  .  . 
Thought  quailed 
At  silent  distance,  unknown  forest  aisles — 
Dark  miles 
\Miere  danger  lurked  .  .  .  Yet  here  they  planted  corn. 
Stillborn 
And  un\oieed,  every  doubt,  each  brief  regret. 
But  still  when  Maytime  came — hedgerows  in  bloom 
At  home — 
Old  memorv  whispered,  "Now  in  England's  spring 
Larks  sing!" 
Though  winter's  ice  had  melted,  snowing  done. 
They  longed  for  mist}'  haw  thorne — 
But  walked  forward 
Into  sun!

LESSON   DEPARTMENT 
cJheologyi — The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Lesson   13— The  Church  Organized  in  the  Last  Dispensation 
Elder  Roy  W.  Doxey 
(Text:  The  Doctrine  and  Co\cnants,  Sections  20:1-36;  21) 
For  Tuesday,  February  3,  1959 
Objecti\e:  To  emphasize  the  preparations  made  for  the  formal  organizing  of  the 
Church  and  to  indicate  a  relationship  between  the  teachings  of  The  Doctrine  and 
Co\enants  and  The  Book  of  Mormon. 
HistoricTil  Background 
"V/IANY  events  had  transpired  in 
the  hfe  of  Joseph  Smith  and 
some  of  his  co-workers  by  April  6, 
1830.  Both  the  Father  and  the  Son 
Jesus  Christ  had  appeared  to  Joseph 
ten  years  before  this  date.  The  angel 
Moroni  had  declared  '\  .  .  the  ful- 
fillment of  the  prophets  —  the  book 
to  be  revealed  .  .  ."  (D  &  C  128:20). 
To  Moroni  had  been  committed  the 
keeping  and  revealing  of  the  record 
of  the  stick  of  Ephraim  (D  &  C 
27:5).  Many  times  this  angelic 
personage  had  instructed  the  Proph- 
et in  the  work  assigned  him,  and 
finally,  in  March  1830,  The  Book  of 
Mormon  was  available  for  purchase. 
The  two  Priesthoods  —  Aaronic  and 
Melchizcdek  —  had  been  restored 
that  man  might  represent  the  Lord 
again. 
The  commandment  of  the  Lord