[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science — The Restraining Hand John Farr Larson 774]
the  opposite  conclusion.  The  need  for 
growth  and  the  need  for  social  independ- 
ence may  produce  distortions  in  a  child's 
behavior.  In  such  cases,  those  parents 
are  wise  who  channel  the  child's  activities 
to  meet  these  needs  rather  than  thwart 
the  expressed  hunger.  Wise  parents  will 
continually  ask  "Why?" 
3.  Parents  should  seek  to  understand 
their  child's  fears  and  frustrations  and  re- 
flect such  understanding  in  their  discipline. 
The  timid  child,  for  instance,  may  have 
strong,  angry  feelings  which  he  is  unable 
to  express.  Parental  discipline  can  con- 
tribute to,  or  lessen  these  feelings.     The 
apparent  timidity  may  come  from  over- 
protection  or  sternness.  Such  a  child  not 
only  needs  parental  support  in  helping  him 
assert  himself,  but,  having  been  given 
parental  support,  he  needs  opportunities 
for  independent  expression. 
4.  The  parental  feeling  towards  the  child 
is  of  utmost  importance.  Parents  who 
have  an  attitude  of  warmth  and  lo\'e  in- 
stinctively help  their  child  become  self- 
reliant  through  the  creation  of  an  environ- 
ment which  encourages  this  very  thing. 
There  is  great  comfort  in  knowing  that 
those  who  love  you  love  enough  to  take 
the  responsibility  of  marking  out  the  per- 
missible (Thornton  Wilder:  The  Ides  oi 
March,  Harper,  1948,  page  194).  (Re- 
printed by  permission) 
You  will  observe  that  the  most  potent 
influence  over  the  mind  of  a  child  to 
persuade  it  to  learn,  to  progress,  or  to 
accomplish  anything,  is  the  influence  of 
love.  More  can  be  accomplished  for  good 
by  unfeigned  love,  in  bringing  up  a  child, 
than  by  any  other  influence  that  can  be 
brought  to  bear  upon  it.  A  child  that 
cannot  be  conquered  by  the  lash,  or  sub- 
dued by  violence,  may  be  controlled  in 
an  instant  by  unfeigned  affection  and 
sympathy.  I  know  that  is  true;  and  this 
principle  obtains  in  every  condition  of 
life  (Joseph  F.  Smith:  Gospel  Doctrine, 
Ninth  Edition,  page  294) 
Patience— Direction— Firmness 
With  an  awareness  of  the  above, 
how  do  parents  deal  with  the  prob- 
lems which  are  constantly  arising 
within  the  home?  The  authorities 
in  this  field  suggest  that  parents 
need  patience,  the  ability  to  substi- 
tute or  redirect  activities,  and  the 
determination  to  stop  some  behav- 
ior. Behavior  which  is  normal  for  a 
given  stage  of  development  must  be 
received  with  considerable  tolerance, 
even  though  it  may  be  extremely 
irritating.  This  does  not  mean  we 
should  dismiss  our  responsibilities 
with  the  conclusion  that  the  child 
is  in  a  ''phase"  which  he  will  out- 
grow.    Quite   to   the  contrary,  we

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
777 
should  recognize  that  much  of  this 
type  of  behavior  is  "testing"  to  find 
the  hmits  of  acceptable  beha\ior. 
If  parents  use  this  experience  to  set 
consistent  limits,  the  ''phase"  will 
pass,  leaving  the  child  with  newly 
acquired  controls  a\'ailable  to  him- 
self as  he  meets  new  but  similar  sit- 
uations. 
Behavior  which  stems  from  a 
basic  need  can  best  be  met  by 
''channeling."  The  child  who  is 
bad  because  he  needs  recognition 
or  security,  for  instance,  is  best  dis- 
ciplined by  having  experiences  from 
which  he  will  receixe  the  security 
he  wishes.  Punishment,  in  such  a 
situation,  merely  adds  fuel  to  the 
fire.  Creative  parents  will  provide 
experiences  for  children  to  meet 
their  basic  needs  before  they  express 
such  a  desire  through  undesirable 
behavior.  These  parents  will  also 
make  opportunities  in  which  chil- 
dren can  make  decisions  and  have 
experience  in  "play  living"  from 
which  they  learn  permissible  be- 
havior. 
Some  situations  require  parents 
to  be  firm  in  order  to  stop  a  child's 
behavior.  When  a  child  is  in  dan- 
ger, either  from  his  own  impulse  or 
some  independent  source,  we  should 
not  hesitate  to  use  whatever  neces- 
sary means  we  have  to  protect  him. 
Discipline  Is  Constant 
There  are  many  and  \'aried  kinds 
of  discipline.  There  are  discipli- 
nary features  in  almost  every  act  of 
parents.  The  appreciation  which 
they  show,  the  efforts  in  helping 
children  meet  basic  needs,  and  the 
pleasurable  experiences  which  par- 
ents provide  for  their  children,  all 
involve  discipline,  for  each  suggests 
a  course  of  behavior.  Families  should 
seek  to  be  united  in  their  discipline, 
or  confusion  clouds  the  message 
which  parents  seek  to  teach  their 
children. 
Miss  Margaret  Mead,  in  an 
illuminating  address  before  the  Mid- 
Century  White  House  Conference 
on  Children  and  Youth  spoke  of 
disciplinary  methods.    She  said: 
There  are  people  .  .  .  who  mainly  bring 
up  their  children  by  seolding  them  when 
they  are  bad  and  taking  goodness  for 
granted. 
As  a  country,  she  pointed  out,  we 
have  passed  from  the  use  of  punish- 
ment to  a  period  of  reward  for  do- 
ing good.  The  eating  of  spinach  is 
rewarded  with  ice  cream,  for  in- 
stance. Commenting  further.  Miss 
Mead  said  we  are  now  moving  to- 
wards rewarding  "children  for  not 
doing  the  things  they  shouldn't 
have  done." 
Now  when  we  have  living  together 
grandparents  who  were  brought  up  on 
the  ''wash  your  mouth  out  with  soap" 
position,  parents  who  were  brought  up 
on  the  "gold  star  when  you  clean  your 
teeth"  position,  and  children  who  expect 
to  be  complimented  for  "not  hitting  their 
baby  brothers  on  the  head"  position,  si- 
multaneously, you  will  see  we  ha\e  a 
complicated  and  difficult  problem.  One 
of  the  important  things  for  us  to  do  is 
recognize  how  difficult  it  is  (Margaret 
Mead,  Associate  Curator  of  Ethnology, 
American  Museum  of  Natural  History, 
New  York  City,  Speaking  to  the  Mid- 
Century  White  House  Conference  on 
Children  and  Youth,  1950,  "The  Impact 
of  Culture  on  Personalitv  De\elopmcnt 
in  the  United  States  Today").  (Reprinted 
by  permission) 
Punishment 
Punishment  is  a  part  of  discipline 
whether  it  consists  of  nagging, 
threats,  deprivation,  or  spanking.  In 
contemplating  the   use   of   punish-
