[Vol45 | November 1958 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Women]
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
753 
and  grateful  for  the  spirit  of  lo\c,  unity,  and  co-operation  among  our  sisters  throughout 
the  ten  wards  of  our  stake.  As  leaders  of  Highland  Stake  Relief  Society,  we  wished  to 
show  our  appreciation  to  each  one  of  them,  and  so  prepared  a  closing  social  centered 
on  the  literature  department,  since  we  were  culminating  a  \  cry  successful  two-year  course 
on  Shakespeare.  The  delightful  pageant  "Shakespeare  in  Our  Lives,"  by  Alberta  II. 
Christensen  of  the  General  Board,  was  used  as  the  entertainment  of  the  morning. 
"We  were  gratified  as  the  course  came  to  a  close  to  note  the  increased  attendance 
throughout  the  year  and  that  the  enthusiasm  of  each  teacher  had  inspired  e\er\-  mem- 
ber with  a  new  interest  in  Shakespeare  and  all  worthwhile  literature.  The  literature 
teachers  in  the  wards  were  used  either  as  members  of  the  cast  or  participated  in  its  produc- 
tion,   Margaret  Brown,  stake  literature  class  leader,  directed  the  pageant. 
"The  program  was  enhanced  by  the  thrilling  singing  of  lOO  Singing  Mothers  direct- 
ed bv  Glcnna  Peterson,  accompanied  by  Norma  Krantz,  stake  music  directors.  Refresh- 
ments were  ser^•ed  to  335  sisters.  W'^e  were  delighted  to  ha\e  Sister  Leone  G.  La)'ton 
of  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society  as  a  guest." 
Photograph  submitted  by  Rachel  W.  Park 
MILLCREEK  STAKE    (UTAH),  VALLEY  CENTER  SECOND  WARD 
PRESIDENTS  HONORED  AT  CLOSING  SOCIAL,  May  27,  1958 
Left  to  right:  Hazel  A.  Udy,  President  since  July  1956;  Mary  B.  Phillips,  1955-56; 
Rachel  W.  Park,  President,  Millercek  Stake  Relief  Society;  Flora  King,  first  President 
of  Valley  Center  Second  Ward  Relief  Society,  1951-53;  Edna  Parker,  second  President, 
1953-55- 
Sister  Udy  reports:    "The  Valley  Center  Second   Ward    Relief  Society  past  and 
present  presidents  and  Millercek  Stake  Relief  Society  president  met   together  for  the 
first  time  since  the  organization  of  the  ward  in  1951,  at  a  closing  social."

754 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1958 
Photograph  submitted  by  Lona  C.  Hepworth 
RAFT  RIVER  STAKE    (IDAHO),  MALTA  WARD  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
PRESIDENTS  HONORED  AT  ANNIVERSARY  SOCIAL,  March  17,  1958 
Left  to  right:  Alice  O.  Neddo  (1922-1944);  Helen  O.  Kelsey  (1944-1948);  Sarah 
D.  Wight  (1948-1953);  Lois  Z.  Elison  (1953-1958);  Leona  Bell  (1958-  ). 
The  Malta  Ward  Relief  Society  was  organized  in  1910,  with  Martha  Hutchinson 
(deceased)  as  president.  She  served  twelve  years.  At  the  anniversary  social,  the  ward 
presidents  were  honored. 
Lona  C.  Hepworth  is  former  president  of  Raft  Ri\er  Stake  Relief  Society.  The 
new  president  is  Thua  E.  Harper. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Electa  P.  Hilton 
ALBUOUERQUE  STAKE   (NEW  MEXICO)   \TSITING  TEACHERS  GIVEN 
^  SPECIAL  RECOGNITION  AT  CONVENTION,  May  31,  1958 
Electa  P.  Hilton,  President,  Albuquerque  Stake  Relief  Society  (seated  at  the  left 
in  the  front  row),  reports:  "Special  recognition  was  given  to  these  women.  Each 
one  is  wearing  a  blue  and  gold  badge  which  identifies  her  as  a  '100  per  cent  visiting 
teacher'  who  has  completed  her  teaching  every  month  since  the  stake  was  organized  in 
October  1957.  Their  names  also  appeared  on  a  beautifully  constructed  honor  roll 
display. 
"The  convention  program  was  presented  in  the  form  of  a  court  hearing  where  the

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
755 
\isiting  tcnclicr  \v;is  'on  trial.'  Witnesses  for  tlic  defense  testified  in  l)elialf  of  tlie  \isit- 
ing  teacher  throngh  talks,  musical  numbers,  and  clever  skits  bearing  cnit  the  im 
portancc  of  \isiting  teaching.  Cleverly  worded  invitations  in  the  form  of  a  court 
summons  were  mailed  to  all  the  teachers  in  the  stake.  The  program,  combining  humor, 
spiritualitv,  and  beautiful  music,  was  enthusiastically  recei\ed  by  all  those  in  attendance. 
We  felt  that  we  had  a  wonderful  convention,  and  that  through  the  coml)ined  efforts 
of  ward  and  stake  workers,  wc  ha\e  succeeded  in  arousing  a  great  deal  of  enthusiasm 
for  visiting  teaching  in  our  stake." 
PhotoRraph  submitted  by  Grace  C.  Gamble 
ONEIDA  STAKE  (IDAHO),  \\  INDER  \\^\RD  RELIEF  SOCII/i  Y  SOCIAL 
May  28,  1958 
Seated,  left  to  right:  Secretary  Mable  Talbot;  President  Zilla  Winger. 
Standing,  left  to  right:  First  Counselor  Loretta  Sharp;  Second  Counselor  Sara  Rallif. 
Grace  C.  Gamble,  President,  Oneida  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "  'Let's  Get  on 
the  Relief  Societv  Train'  was  the  theme  for  an  unusual  social  gi\en  by  this  new  Relief 
Society  presidency  in  an  effort  to  gain  new  members.  Dinner  was  ser\cd  to  all  thc 
women  and  their  husbands.  Tables  ran  the  full  length  of  the  recreation  hall.  The 
centerpiece  was  a  small  electric  train  with  tracks  on  each  table,  'i'he  place  cards  were 
yellow  stop  signs  mounted  on  toothpicks  standing  in  gumdrops.  At  the  head  of  the 
table  was  a  large  poster  showing  a  stop  sign  with  'Relief  Society  Crossing'  on  it.  This 
was  followed  b\  fi\  e  more  posters,  each  show  ing  a  cle\er  illustration  of  a  train  represent- 
ing each  department  in  Relief  Society. 
''The  social  was  li\'clv  as  well  as  inspirational,  and  full  of  surprises.  It  began  with 
the  sound  effect  of  a  train  approaching,  which  was  very  effcetixe,  as  it  came  through  the 
loud  speaker  svstem,  and  the  guests  were  instructed  to  board  the  Relief  Society  train 
and  go  into  the  dining  car  and  be  seated.  President  Zilla  Winger,  who  announced  the 
program,  wore  a  conductor's  hat,  and  also  the  other  officers  and  class  leaders  who  were 
special  conductors  on  this  train."