A DOLL FOR EMARITA gets for Christmas. And see all the pretty things you made — Mama was happy with them. Come, now, Emarita. Be a good girl. Soon you will be at school and see your playmates." She kissed them, and hurried to button coats and tie on scarfs. The girls tucked their lunches under their coats, and followed their mother as she pushed open the door. They bent their heads against the wind; sure enough, there was the yellow school bus coming up the road. As she straightened the house, Mrs. Gonzales decided she should go out looking for work again, now that the girls were in school. She had canvassed the nearby streets several times to no avail. But this day, hope was revived when a lady offered cleaning and ironing to be done one day a week. She hummed to herself, walking home. The girls had just arrived. Rosa was saying, ''So that's why you had something wrapped in your coat, instead of wearing it! Oh, what will Mama say!" E marita had been bending over something on the table. She turned and flung herself against her mother. "Oh, Mama. I didn't really mean to take it. I didn't!" In its box lay a doll, a wondrous doll, with blond curls, real lashes on eyelids that opened and closed, a rosebud mouth, pink cheeks, a blue organdy dress with stockings and purse to match. Mrs. Gonzales felt shame burning in her face. "Emarita. Where did you get ie?" "Tt — it — is so beautiful. I just borrowed it! I didn't mean to keep it! I didn't!" Sobs muffled through her hands held over her face. "Tt is not yours, to borrow, or take," said her mother, thickly. "Oh, Mama," cried Rosa, "now they will all hate us. They will say that she stole it!" Tears coursed down her cheeks. Mrs. Gonzales sat heavily upon a kitchen chair. Bit by bit, the story came from Emarita's trembling lips, of how a girl named Melissa had brought the lovely doll to school. Then the girl's mother had come to take her home early, because of the rain. The doll had been left on the counter, forgotten in its box. When Emarita went back to the classroom to get her coat, at bus time, she peeked into the box. Somehow she couldn't resist. The teacher had been busy at her desk and didn't notice. "But I will take it back tomorrow. I didn't — steal it —." "TI believe that you did not," said her mother slowly. "But we must take the doll back now, today. Not tomorrow. First, I will look to see that it is all right.... Emarita, did the doll have but one shoe?' "Yes, Mama. When Melissa held up the doll for us to see, it had only one shoe. I looked at it very long." "Put on your coats — we must hurry. If the school is locked, we will find the janitor." THE wind had piled the clouds toward the west end of the valley, letting through the pale 170 afternoon sun. The earth veiled itself in silvery mist, fragrant with tree-bark, evergreen spice, and leaf mold. Gems sparkled from the bare trees where birds twittered a denial that winter had come at all. But Mrs. Gonzales had no eye for the beauties of nature. Her mouth was set, her eyes looked only toward the way they must go. Her long cotton skirt billowed from her thrusting legs as the girls took running steps to meet her stride. At last they were at the school, which was built in a series of corridors, each room having an outside door. Emarita saw her teacher coming out, turning to lock the door. "Teacher! Teacher!" she called. The teacher waited, smiling. "T am Miss Whittier, Emarita's teacher." | Mrs. Gonzales tried to smile politely, suddenly conscious of her mud-spattered shoes and rumpled dress. "I am Emarita's mother. I — Emarita has something to tell you." Miss Whittier's face became serious as she listened. At last she said, "Well, as a matter of fact, I have just been talking to Mrs. Adams and Melissa. They came back to school when Melissa realized that she had forgotten her doll. We should go into the office and talk to the principal. I think he is still here." As they followed the teacher to the office, Mrs. Gonzales' fingers closed tighter around Emarita's cold hand. The principal was a tall man, slightly stooped, his face lined by the troubles of other people. He listened carefully to what they had to tell. When he spoke, his voice was deliberate, as if he considered each word: '""This is a very serious matter. I don't have to tell you that. I can see it in your faces. Now, Emarita must learn, early in life, that she must not, cannot, take or borrow other people's things without asking. Do you have something to say, Emarita?" As if by compulsion, Emarita half rose from her chair, and leaned toward the shining expanse of the principal's desk, her eyes straining from their sockets toward the face of judgment. Her mouth opened, but no sound came for a moment. She swallowed. "T — I — am so sorry " she began. Her mother looked sternly at the child. 'What is your promise, Emarita?"' "That I will never, never, never a sob broke the small voice. THE principal's face relaxed. "I'm sure you mean that, Emarita,' he said gently. He reached for the phone. "And now, I think it best that I call Mrs. Adams and ask her to come over here. At first, I didn't intend to. But — she is quite upset. Perhaps if we talk this over, we can get everything straightened out tonight." A few minutes later, Mrs. Adams' high heels tapped across the tiled floor. Melissa followed her mother, her fair hair tied into a pony tail which bounced as she walked. Mrs. Adams scarcely glanced at the forlorn trio, and after greeting Miss Whittier and the principal, she took the box from his desk, and began looking at A DOLL FOR EMARITA the doll. Melissa sat quietly on a chair. "Well, it seems to be all right. Not torn or dirty. But where is the doll's other shoe, Melissa?' "IT don't know, Mother. I thought it was in the box." "Well, it isn't. And if the shoe is lost, it must be paid for." Emarita started to speak, but her mother interrupted, "'As soon as Emarita brought the doll home, I saw only one shoe. She said that there was only one, all the time."' Mrs. Adams sniffed. "'She said! But if the child would steal the doll in the first place." "Emarita is sorry; she only borrowed," began Mrs. Gonzales. The principal cleared his throat. "Perhaps we should discuss this a little more calmly. It is natural that you are upset, Mrs. Adams. This is a very expensive doll, valued by you and Melissa. And Mrs. Gonzales is upset; she feels very deeply about this. Now, Melissa, are you sure the doll was wearing both shoes when you brought it to school this morning?" "Why, yes, sir, I think." "Of course she is sure. Why, she held the box in her lap all the way to school this morning. I drove her over here because it was raining, and we didn't want the doll to get wet,'"' Mrs. Adams said. The principal said, "If the shoe is really lost, I'm sure that Mrs. Gonzales will make restitution. You might look again at home, Melissa. And now, maybe you girls can wait in the outer office with Miss Whittier?" Mrs. Gonzales sat looking down at her large hands, twisting and untwisting her skirt in her lap. Mrs. Adams' eyes found a resting place just above the window. "We are dealing here with a situation involving children," the principal's voice went on. "We should not let our personal feelings take precedence over their welfare. We could, of course, carry the matter much further, demanding reprisals...." His glance rested lightly upon Mrs. Adams' unresponsive countenance. "We could even make a big thing of it. But it seems to me that this would not be in the interest of fairness. I think that the least damaging thing for both the little girls right now is to let the matter rest. Mrs. Gonzales and her girls walked back to the school, a distance of over a mile and a half, on a cold afternoon, in an effort to make things right. They could easily have waited until morning, during which time you, Mrs. Adams, and also Melissa, would have been concerned about the loss of the expensive doll. But they did not wait." He held up a hand against Mrs. Adams' sucked-in breath. "I am not excusing Emarita, and her mother is not excusing her; are you, Mrs. Gonzales?" "Oh, no! No! I am sorry!" Mrs. Adams did not look at her. "Well, of course, I don't want to be too harsh. But I do feel that the child should be punished. After all, this doll is one of Melissa's very best presents; she's ever so choice of it! And though Emarita says she was only... Borrowing — we don't really know what she intended." The principal cleared his throat again. "Sometimes we never 172 really know.... Mrs. Gonzales, what did Emarita get for Christmas?" A flush stained Mrs. Gonzales' neck and face as she lifted her head. "You see, my husband is away, looking for work. So we do not have money for gifts. But we have food. We do not need anything." Her dark gaze rested on the other woman's face. "That is not excuse. Emarita should not have done it." F or just a moment, surprise, almost unbelief, flicked across Mrs. Adams' smooth features. "Well — I guess there's no real harm done — we have the doll back. She started to leave, holding out her hand to the principal. Then she looked down at the figure huddled in the chair, as if seeing her for the first time. Impulsively, she put a hand on the other woman's shoulder. "As far as I'm concerned, the whole thing — is forgotten...."" She fumbled in her purse for a handkerchief, and hurried from the room. Mrs. Gonzales _ smiled, nodded. She rose stiffly. Rosa and Emarita waited with the teacher; Melissa had followed her mother. "TY will give you folks a ride home," said the principal. "Thank you for waiting, Miss Whittier." Just then Melissa came running back. "Look, Emarita! The shoe. It was in the car all the time. I guess it fell out of the box this morming. My mother said to come back and tell you I'm sorry; but I didn't really think you'd lost it." Blue eyes smiled into brown. "See you tomorrow." and "Goodby!" Mrs. Gonzales patted Emarita's shoulder. "Emarita always tell truth," she said proudly. As they rode along in the car, the principal said that sometime he wanted to see the Spanish lady doll, and hear about the grandmother who had made her. It was important to remember the Mexican people who had helped to build California. And didn't Emarita think it was more comfortable to play with an old A DOLL FOR EMARITA doll? Then you needn't worry about spoiling it. By the time they reached the orchard tract, the wind was moaning in the trees, as if preparing for another onslaught. But to the three who walked up the slope, its voice was only a sigh, rising on earth-scented shadows. Mrs. Gonzales had put an arm around each girl; they clung to her wide, firm hands as, smiling, they pushed open the rickety door. Norma A. Wrathalll, who formerly lived in Grantsville, Utah, is now a resident of Sunnyvale, California. She is well known to readers of The , having won awards in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in three previous years. As a homemaker, mother, grandmother, teacher, Church worker, and author, she finds joy in the many rewarding facets of her life. "My literary efforts are few and far between these days, sandwiched in between so many other duties. The years fly along, and | never seem to catch up with the things | would like to be writing. | have taught school here in Sunnyvale during the past five years. This year, | am teacher-librarian in the schools here. Also, | teach a Sunday School class in the Sunnyvale Ward. "My husband is Morris Y. Wrathall. Our children are: Don, doing graduate work in physics at B. Y. U.; Carolyn (Mrs. Ronald Anderson), mother of our three lovely grandchildren, living in Cottonwood, Salt Lake City; Camille (Mrs. Geoffrey Ball), living in Menlo Park, California; and Robert, who will graduate from Sunnyvale High School in June. They are, really, my greatest accomplishment."