HER SECOND DAUGHTER was tops, and keeping house was one long pleasure. But under the assurances was a dearth of details. The bus was slowing for a station, but Velda settled deeper into her seat instead of following those who seized the chance for a stretch. A new, startling thought had occurred to her. Here for a week—how she had worked to cut the trip as short as possible— she had been worrying about all the children except the one who was most vulnerable. Linda was so sensitive. Her mother's tense, anxious attitude might hurt the girl deeply, especially if the job had proven too much for her. Suddenly Velda's heart went out to Linda, always trying to equal, never quite succeeding in keeping up with competent, lovable Sharon. No younger child ever went to Linda to have the hurt kissed away — not if Sharon was around. Had the younger children accepted her authority now, or had Vincent quietly filled the breach? If he had, Linda's ego. Perhaps some such situation was what Velda had sensed behind Linda's chatter. The actual incidents couldn't have been too serious or Vincent would have called her but, no! There was no use in pretending to believe that nothing vital had gone wrong for Linda. Mothers have a sixth sense. As the bus moved out onto the highway again, Velda reviewed the first time her own mother had left her in charge of the younger children. Velda was only ten, but an emergency at a neighbor's had called Mama away for the afternoon. Eager toimpress her mother, ignoring the danger of five brothers and sisters underfoot, Velda had decided to wash the family's few good pieces of china and glassware. Since they stood on open shelves, they frequently had to be taken down and washed. The ritual was one Velda had always treasured. THat afternoon, as she had washed, dried, and replaced the Dutch chocolate pot, the handpainted plates, the 1893 World's Fair cups and saucers, she had felt very grownup. She had left her favorite dish for the last. It was the newest one, too—a cake plate, clear glass, with a smaller base and a slim, glass column to hold the plate itself with its slightly raised edge. Papa had bought it after Mama won first prize on her layer cake at the county fair even without a fancy dish to show it off. Although Mama _ had _ protested against Papa's' extravagance, Velda knew she held the plate dear. Velda washed it very carefully. Then, halfway between the dishpan and the cupboard, she paused, seeing a chocolate dreamcake rise majestically on the gleaming glass, ignoring the scuffle between Frankie and little Jesse. The latter took a short-cut between her legs; and dream, dish, and Velda collapsed to the floor in the midst of shattered glass. So vivid was the picture even after thirty-odd years that Velda was hardly aware of the speeding bus. She chided herself, remembering how she had resisted leaving Linda in charge at sixteen. But those were sterner times, and 180 children were expected to take responsibility young. She remembered how she had prayed Papa would get home first—as he had. At first he had been skeptical of her carefully thought-out plan, but finally agreed to mind the children while she tried it. Clutching the _ thirty-seven cents she had been saving for Christmas, heart hammering with every word, she had proposed to Mr. Dinwiddie of Dinwiddie's Department Store that, if he would accept a down payment of thirty-seven cents on a cake plate like Papa bought, she would contract to give him every cent she received from any source whatsoever until the plate was paid for. But she needed the plate to take home now. Mr. Dinwiddie had pulled at his mustache and said, 'Most unusual." But, just when she thought her heart would burst, he had finally pulled a sheet of paper out of the desk drawer and drawn up a contract full of party's of the first part and whereas's. And so her income was tied up for eighteen long months. No one favored her; she received her share of the small amount of spending money available and no more. But she knew that Mama prized the cake plate Velda had carried home so carefully that night even more than she had the original — just as Velda had prized it ever since Mama had given it to Vincent and her as a wedding gift. For, of course, Mama _ had known all about everything from the beginning. She understood the motives and she knew how the penniless months dragged. And, without words, she knew how to make Velda feel her pride in her, so that when Velda finally learned that Papa had called Mr. Dinwiddie and arranged the deal, there was no shamed let-down. How carefully she in her turn must deal with Linda's failure, whatever form it may have taken. If she only knew what to be prepared for! Anp then, there didn't seem to be anything wrong — not anything at all. The twins, Monte, Linda, and Vincent were lined up at the station with beaming, healthy faces to greet her when the bus pulled in thirty minutes late. Vincent allowed each one a hug and a kiss, then bundled them into the car with the reminder that supper was waiting. How good it felt to drive the familiar, tree-shaded street; to watch the children pile out of the car, vying for the honor of carrying her suitcase; to see Linda hurry ahead to tend to her chores in the kitchen. How extra good it felt to enter the familiar rooms. Velda relaxed with pride. Linda had set the table and put on it everything that could safely stand if the bus were late. From the crisper she brought out radishes, celery, and carrot sticks prepared earlier, and from another section of the refrigerator, individual molded salads. By the time everyone was washed and ready for supper, Linda was bringing in a tuna-fish casserole from the oven. As Velda listened to her husband's fervent prayer of thanks for a reunited family, her heart swelled with added thankfulness. — Why had she been so fearful? The planning behind this welHER SECOND DAUGHTER come home could come only from a responsible person. Velda added a silent prayer that God would direct her words so that they might show her appreciation without betraying her doubts. But Linda seemed curiously indifferent to praise. Although she smiled and made the right answers, her eyes never fully met her mother's. Velda felt her former anxieties stronger than ever. Yet how could anything be wrong? Vincent seemed so relaxed. When he looked fondly at Linda and said, "I knew we had another good housekeeper in the family; we just never gave her a chance," Velda realized that he was unaware of Linda's trouble, whatever it might be. Monte looked at his sister appraisingly. "She's doing pretty well now," he admitted, '"'but, boy, meals were sure late at first." "It was your fault," protested Nancy. "You brought home regular oatmeal instead of the quick kind. So Linda wasn't to blame if breakfast was ten minutes late." "Twelve minutes, thirty - two seconds," corrected Monte. Tue familiar teasing was music to Velda's ears. Yet, as the banter continued, she missed one voice — Linda's. Linda, always so quick to defend herself, always so ready with the excuses, was unnaturally silent. Neither praise nor blame brought any response. Velda's glance circled the table, resting lovingly on each familar detail. The twins, tanned and already restless, were a fitting foreground for the wilderness mural on the south wall. Behind Vincent at the head of the table stood the breakfront china cabinet. Monte was framed by the living room arch, and Linda on her mother's right. There was something wrong in the panorama. Slowly Velda let her glance' backtrack, past Monte's laughing face, past Vincent's. There it was, just to the left and behind Vincent, the cake plate on the top shelf of the breakfront. It glowed against the rich walnut—but it wasn't her cake plate. The style was similar. Vincent would never have noticed the difference. Velda smiled in relief. She could surmise what had _ happened: probably a cake baking spree to celebrate Linda's new authority, an accident, a hasty replacement. She knew just how Linda must feel now—the sense of shame in the face of so much praise, the feeling that she had been inadequate, that she had taken a childish attitude toward her responsibility. Since Vincent was so unaware, Linda must have secretly spent her own money. Velda frowned. Linda should know better than to try to hide her mistake. Well —probably she was waiting for a private opportunity to tell her mother first. THE opportunity came and went, came and went, over and over again, until the evening became one of the longest Velda could remember. To be sure, she now knew when the accident must have happened although the substitution seemed to be known only to Linda. The other children, eagerly bringing Mom up- 182 to-date, had told her about Linda's "'party." "She had a couple of the girls over the night after you left," Vincent explained. 'My school board meeting night, you know." "But she made us all go to bed while she and those pals of hers gorged themselves on fudge layer cake and _ pistachio ice cream, and who knows' what else,"' complained Monte. Again Linda sat mute. Little Nancy came to her defense. ''You ate your share the next morning, Monte." "She could hardly wait for Mom to be gone." "That's enough, son. You know that Linda would have been entertaining the same girls in the same way if her mother had been home." Vincent closed the subject firmly. But Velda, looking at Linda's masked face, worried. Did she intend to deceive her mother? A week crept by. If Linda meant to confide in her mother, she surely would have done so by this time. But why not? Linda had never seemed a secretive child. She had confessed far more serious faults than the breakage of a dish, treasured though it might be. Why was she silent now? Slowly, gropingly, during that week, Velda searched for an answer. She talked the problem over with Vincent—or rather, she talked to Vincent, for he remained noncommittal, even after she took the dish down and showed him the different pedestal and the rimless plate. As for Linda, she stayed away from home as much as possible. When in the house, she was quick to see what needed to be done; but, each task finished, she no longer asked her mother how her performance compared with Sharon's. THe day Velda recognized the significance of the unasked quesbegan to find her tion, she answer. Since babyhood, Linda had been saying, "I can do it just as well: as Sharon, can't I, Mommie?" From the beginning of her teens, the cry had been, "T'd be just as good as Sharon if you'd only give me a chance!" Now Linda had _ had _ her chance. In her own eyes, she had failed. If Linda would only confide in her mother! If Velda could only talk to her! As though Vincent stood beside her, Velda heard his voice: "Youngsters become responsible by being given responsibility." Why wasn't Linda as reliable as Sharon? With bowed head, Velda let the truth shine through her memories: Linda begging to be allowed to get supper, but being put off with table setting; Linda baby-sitting the twins in the afternoons, but Sharon taking over at night. Linda was right. Velda had never given her second daughter the trust the first one inspired. But was it because Linda was inherently unworthy of that trust? Had Velda taught her how to be worthy of it? She had taught Sharon. But Linda was a more difficult pupil. She was impatient, wanted to know how without learning, without practicing. She constantly ignored the threeyear difference between herself and her sister. Since she scorned HER SECOND DAUGHTER learning anything that Sharon already knew, she had remained largely untaught, gaining her knowledge by imitation. In this time of soul searching, Velda saw her mistake and with deep humility set about. The task of atoning for it. - Art 'first Velda tried ordinary means to break through that barrier — invitations to confidence, a sewing project that kept mother and daughter together for long hours. Linda remained inside her shell. Finally Velda called Vincent and arranged for him to keep the younger children out of the way until further notice. Vincent seemed to understand. Then she set the cake plate in the center of the table and sat down to wait. Linda was a long time coming. Velda heard her slow steps on the porch, felt rather than saw her freeze in the doorway. "Come in, dear, and sit down."' Face averted, Linda slumped into her father's chair at the opposite end of the table. Velda tried to make her voice sound casual. "I don't think I ever told you the story of my cake plate—I guess we mothers often neglect to tell of our own weak points," she began and went on with all the details, though at first they seemed to be dropping into a bottomless pit. But when the plate in_ the mother's story shattered, Linda's self-control shattered with it. As the sobbing girl rushed into her mother's outspread arms, Velda knew she would have a second chance with her second daughter. 183 oH, hrough the Convert Ida M. Potts Wuat are the objects of Relief Society? I thought I knew the answer to this question, but just to make sure, I considered the book A Centenary of Relief Society, and found that the minutes of the original meeting say that the Prophet Joseph Smith declared the object of this society was to look after the needs of the poor, to search after objects of charity, to administer to their wants, and "to assist by correcting the morals and ee the virtues of the community.. (page 15). President Hugh B. Brown, in Continuing the Quest, says: The place of importance that was assigned to the women's Relief Society is really analogous to the place of mother in the home the Relief Society being an extension of the home, is a helpmate to the priesthood.... Service, love-inspired service, is the symbol of womanhood. It is the emblem of the Relief Society (pp. 4-5; see also The Relief Magazine, , pp. 811-812). In our review of a convert's reactions, let us start at the beginning of her membership. The missionaries have been giving instructions, taking the investigator to the various services of the Church, and doing everything possible to create an interest in their work. They succeed in bringing the investigator into the Church. She is baptized and confirmed and becomes a full-fledged member. The missionaries have done the work for which they are trained, and now it is the duty of the membership to take their new member into their auxiliaries and fellowship with them. A shy, reserved convert finds it difficult to "mix in" with these (to her) strangers. If she has been active in church circles previous to her becoming a Latter-day Saint, she can be lonely if the sisters do not take her under their wing and help her to become acclimated to her new environment. If she is given some work to do at once, that breaks the spell of loneliness and she more readily becomes one of the group. When once a new member reaches the place where she feels at home in her Relief Society, she realizes that it is a unique group. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency clearly describes our group. She says: Relief Society is not a Church study club, although the members faithfully study the standard works of the Church; it is not a homemakers club, although every member is trained in better homemaking; it is not a literary club, although members gain deep understanding from great writings; it is not a social service club, although it studies and sponsors the giving of service; it is not a money-making club, although substantial monetary support is given to Church programs. It is an inspired organization with the highest eternal goals ( , , page 802).; Our new convert at the beginning of the month attends a theology meeting. She soon realizes that the teacher is a dedicated sister devoting her time and energy and intelligence to giving a theology lesson that will define gospel truths and uplift the minds and hearts of those who listen to her presentation. Then follows the testimony meeting. The sisters are not afraid nor ashamed to rise to their feet and express their thanks for blessings received. All sisters meet on the same level of equality, and our convert finds that the highly educated women, as well as those of lesser education, have problems which they take to their Heavenly Father. This fosters a feeling of belonging and is of inestimable value, and is a great source of encouragement. The spiritual value of these experiences cannot be measured, nor expressed. The visiting teacher lesson comes in for its share of attention. What is more interesting than to be a visiting teacher? This gives one the opportunity to visit those members of the Church who do not, or cannot, come to the church services, or who, for some other reason, have become inactive. It gives an opportunity to contact the homebound, the ill, the working mothers—and who needs the Relief Society more than this type of person? It gives us an opportunity, through friendliness, to build up confidence in the minds of those who do not come, to sell Relief Society