[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Tacher Messages: "And it Came to Pass Taht There was No Contention in he Land Beause of the ove of God Which Did Dwell in the Hearts f the People" Leone Jacobs]
Visiting  cJeacher   i/Lessages — 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  45— "And  It  Came  to  Pass  That  There  Was  No  Contention  in  the 
Land  Because  of  the  Love  of  God  Which  Did  Dwell  in  the  Hearts 
of  the  People"  (4  Nephi  15). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  February  5,  1957 
Objective:  To  give  encouragement  for  eliminating  contention  through  having  the 
love  of  God  in  our  hearts. 
TN  the  world  as  it  exists  today  we 
can  only  try  to  imagine  what  it 
would  be  like  if  it  were  devoid  of 
all  contention.  Surely  it  would 
seem  near  unto  heaven.  Yet  such 
a  condition  is  possible  to  achieve 
and  was  achieved  by  the  Nephites 
on  this  hemisphere  over  1900  years 
ago.  A  state  of  peace  and  harmony 
existed  among  them  for  almost  200 
years.  The  Book  of  Mormon  states 
regarding  this  unique  period, 
".  .  .  and  surely  there  could  not  be 
a  happier  people  among  all  the 
people  who  had  been  created  by 
the  hand  of  God"  (4  Nephi  16).  
' 
Was  it  any  magic  formula  or  un- 
known code  of  conduct  which 
brought  about  this  happy  state?  No, 
the  formula  has  been  known 
throughout  the  centuries,  and  is 
known  to  us  today.  It  was  given 
very  clearly  and  briefly  when  Nephi 
recorded  ".  .  .  there  was  no  conten- 
tion in  the  land,  because  of  the  love 
of  God  which  did  dwell  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people." 
Throughout  the  scriptures  we 
read  much  concerning  the  love  of 
God,  indicating  that  it  should  rule 
our  lives.  When  one  of  the  Phari- 
sees, a  lawyer,  inquired  of  Jesus, 
"Master,  which  is  the  great  com- 
mandment in  the  law?"  Jesus  an- 
swered : 
.  .  .  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 
This  is  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment   (Mt.    22:37-38). 
We  can  cultivate  and  prove  our 
love  of  God  only  by  doing  his  will. 
Christ  said,  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my 
commandments"  (John  14:15).  The 
extent  to  which  we  love  God  is 
made  manifest  in  our  behavior  to- 
ward our  fellow  men.  We  cannot 
truly  love  God  and  mistreat  our  fel- 
low men. 
Relief  Society  sisters  have  an  ex- 
cellent opportunity  to  develop  love 
of  God,  both  through  their  compas- 
sionate services  within  the  organiza- 
tion and  also  in  their  homes.  To 
a  great  extent  it  is  within  the  power 
of  mothers  to  make  of  their  homes 
sanctuaries  of  peace  and  harmony. 
By  a  mother's  good  example  and 
patient  but  firm  guidance,  the  love 
of  God  can  be  cultivated.  Such 
helpful  influences  as  family  prayer, 
participation  in  family  activities,  co-
