[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Gardner]
Recipes for Cheese Dishes Rhea H. Gardner re keep some cheese on hand and you will never be without something you can prepare for either your family or unexpected callers, in just a few minutes. There are hundreds of different cheese recipes contributed by almost every nation in the world. Here are just a few to get your imagination and ingenuity working. CHEESE FINGERS 1 c. _ sifted flour 1% c. (6 oz.) grated sharp Y, tsp. Salt Cheddar cheese dash pepper 4 _ tbsp. Softened butter 2 tbsp. Milk (about) Sift flour, salt, and pepper. Add cheese and butter. Mix with fork till crumbly and well blended. Gradually stir in milk until moist enough to roll, Roll on slightly floured board about % 'ach thick. Cut into finger lengths. Place on greased baking sheet, Bake in 425° oven about 10 minutes OT until slightly brown. Makes about 3% dozen fingers. Serve with soup or salad. TOASTED CHEESE ROLLS 1 (3-0z.) pkg. Cream cheese Y, tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Butter 8 thin slices fresh bread 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley Mix together and cream. Spread on bread from which crusts have been cut. Carefully roll and secure with toothpicks. Cover with damp cloth and let stand in a cool place until ready to bake. Bake on oiled cookie sheet about 12 minutes in 425°F. Oven. Excellent salad accompaniment. STUFFED CELERY FILLINGS (2) lc. Blue cheese 4 tbsp. Finely chopped 1 tbsp. Butter salted peanuts or almonds Mix together. Spread on celery stalks. (2) 1 (3-0z.)pkg. Cream cheese 1 tbsp. Finely chopped parsley 2 tbsp. Cream 1 tbsp. Minced onion or chives Blend cheese and cream until fluffy. Add parsley and onion. Mix well. Spread. These mixtures may also be used as toppings for crisp crackers or potato chips. CHEESE RICE SouFFLE ¥, ¢, brown rice y¥, Ib. (2 ¢.) thinly sliced (1 ¢. Cooked) Cheddar cheese 2 tbsp. Butter or other fat 4 eggs, separated 3 tbsp. Flour ¥, tsp. Salt hh C. Milk Page /54 RECIPES FOR CHEESE DISHES 755 Cook rice in 1% c. Boiling water and % teaspoon salt in pan with close-fitting lid for 15 to 20 minutes. Make white sauce of butter, flour, and milk in top part of double boiler. Cook until thickened and smooth. Add cheese and stir until melted. Fold in cooked rice, beaten egg yolks, and seasonings. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn at once into oiled casserole. Bake in 325° oven 4o minutes or until spatula inserted into the center comes out clean. Do not open oven while souffle is cooking. Serves 4 OF 5. STEAMED CHEESE PUDDING % C. Butter 4 eggs, separated 2 c.(% Ib.) grated cheese lc. Flour (Swiss or Cheddar) 1 tsp. Salt dash pepper Cream butter until soft. Add egg yolks and beat until creamy. Stir in cheese, flour, and seasonings and mix well. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into buttered 8-inch mold. Cover. Place in pan half full of simmering water on top of stove or in oven. Steam for about 35 to 4o minutes or until done. Take care that water is kept at simmering temperature. If it boils the pudding will be watery and have holes. Carefully loosen sides of pudding, unmold on hot platter. Serve with creamed vegetables, chicken, or just by itself with a crisp salad. CHEESE AND Ham CASSEROLE 2 ¢. Cooked noodles dash pepper (about 1 c. Dry) 2 ¢. Milk 2 tbsp. Butter 1 ¢. Diced cooked ham "a tsp. Salt lc. (% Ib.) diced cheese 2 tbsp. Flour Cook noodles until tender. Drain. Make sauce with butter, flour, seasonings, and milk. Cook sauce over low heat, stirring constantly until thick, and smooth. Remove from heat. Add ham, cheese, and noodles and mix well. Pour into oiled 2-quart casserole and bake in 325°F. Oven 20 to 25 minutes or until top is bubbly and slightly brown. + i Shetch for November Lael W. Hill Here is November In autumn designs: Brittle brown fingers Of wall-clinging vines, Thin word of sparrows At sun slant and thinned, Girl in a red coat Walking with wind. (frets Row Tie FEED Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Margaret R. Jackson NEW ENGLAND MISSION, CAMBRIDGE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR Left to ght: Margaret R. Jackson, President, New England Mission Relief Society; officers of the Cambridge Branch Relief Society: Leonora B. Cox, President; Bessie Ryther, Secretary-Treasurer; Elizabeth J. Freeman, Counselor; Alice Karas, work meeting leader; Bonita 'I'. Bennion, Counselor. President Margaret R. Jackson reports the success of this unusual bazaar: "The bazaar presented an excellent display of handwork and other items. 'The sisters made several hundred dollars, and the bazaar included everything from wonderful New England recipe books made by Relief Society members, to fresh honey from the hives belonging to one of the members. The unique thing about the bazaar, I felt, was the way the sisters worked to get ready for it. 'They decided in advance what they wanted the bazaar to include. They then divided the work into as many months as there were left until the time of the bazaar. They mimeographed copies of their plans and gave a copy to each member. Each work meeting they worked like bees, beginning their quota for that month. Then, at the close of the work period, each member would take some part of the unfinished work home and bring it back to the next meeting. They would then start on the next month's quota. The plans were most perfect in organization and development." Page 756 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 757 Photograph submitted by May Dyer CENTRAL STATES MISSION, LIBERTY (MISSOURI) BRANCH CONDUCTS QUILT-MAKING PROJECT Front row, left to right: Calvina Davis; Mary Harrison; Ocean Dick; Jean McCullock; Laura Evans; Mickey Gordona; Alice Tolman, First Counselor; Sybil Rayner. Back row, left to nght: Ruby Miller; Cleora Williams, Secretary-Treasurer; Wanda Rogers, Second Counselor; Jewel Mackesty, President; Ida McHenry. May Dyer, President, Central States Mission Relief Society, reports the activities of this devoted organization: "The sisters of the Liberty, Missouri, Branch always gather together with a special feeling of humility. They are privileged to meet each week in a hallowed spot, over the Liberty Jail, where the Prophet Joseph Smith suffered as a prisoner for many months. This branch Relief Society was begun in March 1955, with fourteen members. Under the able leadership of Sybil Rayner, Jewel Mackesty, and Alice Tolman, the members have made an enviable record, in spite of the fact that many of them have to drive a distance of fifty to seventy-five miles from their homes to meeting and back. Although they have to drive 110 miles a month to get their visiting teaching done, Wanda Rogers and Ocean Dick, and others who have helped, have always achieved a one hundred per cent visiting teaching record. The branch has also scored one hundred per cent on The Book of Mormon reading project. Last November the women conducted a very successful bazaar in Liberty. Although it was very stormy weather, the women brought 160 articles which they had made. In addition to the bazaar, they had a bake sale at the same time. At the spring Relief Society fair and fashion show, in Independence, the Liberty Branch again submitted many articles and received three first-place awards. Since the organization, they have tied one quilt and quilted three more, a remarkable accomplishment, considering that the sisters knew nothing about quilting until Alice Tolman, a missionary custodian at the Liberty Jail, taught them how to quilt." 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 Photograph submitted by Rosalie Marble SOUTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD MAKES QUILT OF UNUSUAL DESIGN Front row, left to right, members of the stake board: Maurine R. Goold, Education Counselor; Dona Hansen; Lou Ella Lee; Faye K. Nielson, President; Muriel C. Mathis. Back row, left to right: Nola Ware; Golda P. Busk; Beth Gregerson; Margaret Bown: Berneice Wade, Work Director Counselor; Rosalie Marble, Secretary-Treasurer. The design of this lovely quilt is a replica of the stake house. In order to raise money for the stake building fund, over nine hundred and thirty-six names were placed on the quilt which was presented to President William Bliss Daniels and Sister LaVerne Daniels. I Photograph submitted by Eliza L. Robinson STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, June 26, 1956 Seated, front row, third from the left: Margaret Winters, visiting teacher message leader; center, seated back of the piano: Sarah Passey, eighty-two years old, the oldest active visiting teacher in the stake, who was especially honored; at the right of Sister NOTES TO THE FIELD 7159 Passey: Eva Nield, who has been a visiting teacher for fifty years, seated left of Sister Passey: Lois Hale, who was president of the Afton South Ward Relief Society during four of the eight years in which the visiting teachers of this ward achieved their one hundred per cent record. Eliza L. Robinson, President, Star Valley Stake Relief Society, reports that a former visiting teacher, Martha Kennington, who is now an invalid and was not present when the picture was taken, wrote a dramatization for the convention entitled "Revelation," which was presented by members of her ward Relief Society as an example of effective visiting teaching. Photograph submitted by Gladys K. Wagner CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION, PANAMA DISTRICT, PACIFIC BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY EXHIBITS HAND-CARVED BATEAS Front row, left to right: Joyce Munsell (seated); Thelma Barnett, Second Counselor. Second row, left to right: Marie Tobert; Lorna Bowen; Myrna Houchen; Lo Ree Hickman, president during the project, and recently released; Maurine Richards. Back row, left to right: Colleen Dial, President; Dorothy Davey; Clara Godbe; Lillian Andersen, Elaine Boyce. Inset: Jean Bouche, Secretary-Treasurer. Gladys K. Wagner, President, Central American Mission Relief Society, reports this unusual and lovely work meeting activity: "A Batea is a wooden bowl or tray, hand-carved, and used for many purposes, such as: to carry the family wash, to clean the rice, for carrying dishes, for use as wall plaques, salad bowls, and other household purposes. Painting these Bateas in colored oils with the original Cocle Indian designs became part of the work activities of the Relief Society of the Pacific Branch under the direction of a former president, Melza Biery, who is now residing in Quito, Ecuador. First Counselor Roberta Shirley, who now supervises the Batea work, was not present when the picture was taken." 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 BOISE STAKE (IDAHO), BOISE FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS THE VISITING TEACHERS AT CLOSING SOCIAL, May 1955 Edna S. Millar, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports an unusually successful social at which the visiting teachers were honored: "The enclosed account of the closing social of the Boise Fourth Ward Relief Society will enable you to catch the spirit of some of the fine work being done in our stake. I was present at this closing social, and the inspiration that Sister Emma F. Davis had in organizing this program was unique and exceptional." The details of the planning for the social and the working out of the plans are reported by Sister Davis: ""When I was asked to prepare the program for the luncheon honoring our visiting teachers, I felt at a loss, as it seemed we had already used every idea there could be. I prayed earnestly for inspiration, and it came to me very distinctly —- why not have the sisters who are visited each month do the honoring? That was the answer. I asked two sisters in each district if they would like to pay tribute to their visiting teachers. 'Their response was one of the most heart-warming experiences I have ever had. The plans were to be a surprise for the visiting teachers, so we seated them at small tables by districts with the two members who were to pay them tribute. As each visiting teacher arose when her name was called, the sister in her district paid her a lovely tribute. Many original verses and sweet sentiments were expressed, which brought tears of joy and warmed the hearts and delighted the souls of our visiting teachers. Even two sweet non-members had enjoyed their visiting teachers very much, and were appreciative of the privilege of attending the social. Every officer and teacher of our Relief Society was also honored that day, to show our appreciation for their untiring efforts in Relief Society work. We feel that the visiting teachers in our ward now know how very much they are appreciated."' She Almighty Jessie Dagsland Johannessen The wind is shaking the trees. The leaves tremble. They know the time soon is here for them to leave this Wonderful world of birds, and sweet smell of flowers. They went too fast—spring with its birth—and summer— This beautiful summer with its laughter and happiness. They are turning yellow now, these leaves, and they try Desperately to let people remember them. They put on their most colorful garments, and to the Music of the wind they tread the last dance— But the people—they hasten—don't stop to see This magnificent work of nature— Except a handful out of the world who look up in wonder, In wonder of him, the Almighty, who made all this possible. Who are we—not to stop and think of him who gave everything, Even his Only Begotten, so that all who believe should not perish— But have everlasting life? N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 45—Moroni Explains Principles and Ordinances of the Gospel Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: the Book of Mormon, chapters 8 and 9; the Book of Ether, chapters 5 and 12:5-41; the Book of Moroni, chapters 1-7, and chapter 10) For Tuesday, February 5, 1957 Objective: To show " if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief" (Moroni 10:24). Moroni the Last Nephite Survivor OR a period of at least twentyone years (400-421 A. D.), Moroni, son of Mormon, roamed the wilderness and the plains. As the last, sad survivor of a once mighty people. (See Mormon 8:3-6.) He was a wayfarer, living a lonesome and a forlorn life; a hunted man, for he knew that if the Lamanites found him they would kill him. The manner of his death is still a mystery. After the battle of Cumorah, fought in 385 A. V., in which Moroni led ten thousand people, he was given custody of the sacred records, the brass plates, the twenty-four gold plates, the large plates of Nephi, and the plates of Mormon, including the small plates of Nephi. Moroni studied the records and familiarized himself with the prophecies foretelling the destruction of his people and with the history of the Nephites and the Jaredites. He engraved an _ abridgment of the Jaredites, recorded on the twenty-four gold plates, upon his father's plates. This abridgment, the Book of Ether, was the first book we read in this course of study. It is a summary of a great civilization that suffered extinction because the people sought for blood and revenge (Moroni 9:23), and because they refused to serve the God of this land who is Jesus Christ. Moroni Finishes His Father's Book Before engraving the history of the Jaredites on Mormon's plates, Moroni wrote two chapters (chapters eight and nine) to conclude his Page /6] 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 father's book, the Book of Mormon. In these two chapters, he recounts the death of his father and all other Nephites save himself: And my father also was killed by them, and I even remain alone to write the sad tale of the destruction of my people. But behold, they are gone, and I fulfil the commandment of my father. And whether they will slay me, I know not (Mormon 8:3). Conditions in Latter Days Given Moroni relates the conditions that would exist when his father's record would come forth, he gives his testimony concerning the three Nephites and Jesus Christ, and addresses unbelievers. Moroni writes: Behold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yet ye are not. But behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I know your doing (Mormon 8:35). There was no question in Moronis mind about the coming forth of the writings: And no one need say they shall not come, for they surely shall, for the Lord hath spoken it; for out of the earth shall they come, by the hand of the Lord, and none can stay it; and it shall come in a day when it shall be said that miracles are done away; and it shall come even as if one should speak from the dead (Mormon 8:26). Moroni describes the social and religious conditions that would exist at the time of the coming forth of the record: And it shall come in a day when the blood of saints shall cry unto the Lord, because of secret combinations and the works of darkness (Mormon 8:27). He further testifies that: Yea, it shall come in a day when the power of God shall be denied, and churches become defiled and be lifted up in the pride of their hearts; yea, even in a day when leaders of churches and_ teachers shall rise in the pride of their hearts, even to the envying of them who belong to their churches. Yea, it shall come in a day when there Shall be heard of fires, and tempests, and vapors of smoke in foreign lands; And there shall also be heard of wars, rumors of wars, and earthquakes in divers places (Mormon 8:28-30). Moroni further notes that the record will come forth in a day when, "... There shall be churches built up that shall say: Come unto me, and for your money you shall be forgiven of your sins" (Mormon 8:32), in a day when churches will have been built " to get gain " (Mormon 8:33). And I know that ye do walk in the pride of your hearts; and there are none save a few only who do not lift themselves up in the pride of their hearts, unto the wearing of very fine apparel, unto envying, and strifes, and malice, and persecutions, and all manner of iniquities; and your churches, yea, even every one, have become polluted because of the pride of your hearts. For behold, ye do love money, and your substance, and your fine apparel, and the adorning of your churches, more than ye love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted (Mormon 8:36-37). Address to Unbelievers To the unbelievers, Moroni says:... Turn ye unto the Lord, cry mightily unto the Father in the name of Jesus, that perhaps ye may be found spotless, pure, fair, and white, having been cleansed by the blood of the Lamb, at that great and last day (Mormon 9:6).