[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 07 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
EDITORIAL ever-widening years to come. We know that many of the builders of this edifice will never see its shining walls, its spacious rooms, its lovely gifts and adornments which have been sent from afar, but all Relief Society women everywhere will feel the joy of the builders, and the spirit of the house will flow forever into all the stakes and missions, into the far-off branches to the great cities and to the towns — to all places where faithful women meet in the name of the world-wide sisterhood — in all those places where devoted women build the structures of their earthly lives for an everlasting purpose. The replicas of sheaves of wheat which adorn the marble panels on the outside walls of the building are more than decorative motifs. The sheaves are as a joining of large and small treasures, harvested, perhaps, from abundant fields, or smaller garnerings from regions of small 739 harvests. Yet all the sheaves are rich in fulfillment. Even as the faithful sisters once gleaned in the desert fields and stored their wheat for a time of need, even so the women of Relief Society joyfully through all the years have gathered their sheaves of spiritual sustenance and have stored them for a time of need. The sheaves of wheat are a symbol of fulfillment, and they are like the precious grain which will be for the seeding of other fields in years to come. 'The service and the joys of Relief Society are everlasting; they are forever a reaping and a planting. How beautifully the Psalm has expressed the rejoicing of the daughters: Let mount Zion rejoice, and let the daughters... Be glad.... Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following (Psalm 48:11-13). —V. P. C. —<— lot Gust the Heart Catherine E. Berry The far, far pastures of the mind Bloom green and fair, Waiting to feed the hungry thoughts. But winds blow down the lonely crevasses Finding no searcher there. The wide, wide spaces of the heart Are crowded now, Yielding their sustenance to fill The thoughts that seek and yearn for greater heights Of all love will allow. The deep, deep canyons of the soul Go unexplored, Lying in wasted, unused lengths. We have not learned it takes all three to hold The treasure-laden board. Votes TO THE FIELD New Address for Reliof Society As of November 1, 1956, the general offices of Relief Society are located in The Relief Society Building at 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. This includes all departments except the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, located at 21 West South Temple Street.