[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
Sixty    LJears  ^/Lgo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  November  1,  and  November  15,  1896 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
CLARA  BARTON'S  WORK  IN  TURKEY:  If  yon  ask  of  our  mission  what  we 
found  and  what  we  left,  there  is  really  but  this  to  say:  We  found  want,  desolation  and 
suffering,  and  relieved  them  so  far  as  we  were  able.  In  spite  of  all,  these  are  still  there, 
and  they  have  grown  since.  Winter  is  approaching  and  unless  the  open  hand  of 
charity,  not  of  this  country  alone,  but  of  all  civilized  countries,  is  reached  out  to  them 
and  access  be  secured,  hunger  and  cold  will  gather  the  victims  in  by  the  tens  of  thou- 
sands, and  bury  them  like  the  fallen  leaves  beneath  the  snow. 
— Clara  Barton,  President  of  the  American  Red  Cross 
THE  SPIRIT  OF  SLEEP 
He  seals  the  eyes  that  arc  wet  with  tears, 
And  those  where  gladness  beams, 
And  by  a  wave  of  his  scepter-wand 
We  soar  to  the  land  of  dreams  .... 
In  the  silent  gloom  of  the  midnight  hour 
His  standard  is  unfurled; 
With  his  misty  crown  he  reigns  supreme 
The  monarch  of  the  world. 
— Julia  Bowring  Maltese 
QUEEN  VICTORIA:  Queen  Victoria  has  been  queen  of  Great  Britain  during 
the  administrations  of  Van  Buren,  Harrison,  Tyler,  Polk,  Taylor,  Fillmore,  Pierce,  Grant, 
Hayes,  Garfield,  Arthur,  Harrison  and  Cleveland. — Selected 
THE  EXPONENT:  The  prestige  the  Exponent  has  given  the  women  of  this 
Church  in  the  outside  world  is  little  realized;  it  has  broken  down  mountains  of  prejudice, 
it  has  gone  into  the  homes  of  the  rich,  and  the  famous,  poets,  writers,  philosophers, 
people  of  rank  and  title;  besides  it  affords  opportunity  to  the  Elders  who  are  out 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  allay  much  prejudice  they  have  to  meet  .... 
— Editorial 
BOOK  OF  POEMS:  The  book  of  poems  to  be  issued  by  Mrs.  E.  B.  Wells  is  now 
in  course  of  publication  .  .  .  more  than  one  third  of  the  pages  have  been  prepared,  and 
it  is  expected  the  book  will  be  ready  for  subscribers  before  Christmas. 
— Editorial  Note 
THE  NATIONAL  COUNCIL  OF  WOMEN:  The  Executive  meeting  of  the 
National  Council  of  Women  of  the  United  States  will  be  held  this  year  in  Boston  on 
December  2,  3,  and  4th.  Notices  have  been  sent  to  each  society  belonging  to  the 
Council  to  send  delegates,  but  this  year  Utah  organizations  cannot  conveniently  send 
representatives  on  account  of  the  great  distance  and  the  scarcity  of  means. 
— Editorial  Note 
Page  736

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
"PLLEN  C.  HENDERSON,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  is  the  author 
of  You  Can  Teach  Your  Child  That 
JReading  Can  Be  Fun,  a  new  book 
which  includes  many  of  the  excel- 
lent techniques  which  Mrs.  Hender- 
son has  developed  during  a  long  and 
distinguished  teaching  career  in  the 
speech  arts. 
MILDRED  (BABE)  DIDRICK- 
1  l  SON  ZAHARIAS,  forty-two, 
greatest  American  woman  athlete  of 
all  time,  died  in  Texas,  September 
27,  1956.  An  Olympic  record- 
holder,  she  excelled  in  many  sports 
and  was  also  noted  for  feminine  ac- 
complishments. Her  marriage  to 
George  Zaharias  was  a  classic  story 
of  romance  and  devotion. 
A  LBERTA  H.  CHRISTENSEN, 
a  member  of  the  general  board 
of  Relief  Society,  was  awarded  first 
prize  by  the  League  of  Utah  Writ- 
ers at  their  annual  Round-up  in 
September,  for  her  poem  'To  the 
Framers  of  the  Constitution/' 
which  was  published  in  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  September  1955. 
Mrs.  Christensen  also  won  the  sec- 
ond prize  in  the  unpublished  poetry 
division.  Vesta  P.  Crawford,  As- 
sociate Editor  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  placed  first  in  the  unpub- 
lished poetry  division,  and  was 
awarded  a  citation.  Maryhale  Wool- 
sey  was  awarded  second  prize  for 
her  story  "Now  Is  a  Man  Grown," 
which  won  first  place  last  year  in 
the  Relief  Society  Short  Story  Con- 
test and  was  published  in  the  Maga- 
zine in  January  1956.  Another  con- 
tributor to  the  Magazine,  Rosa  Lee 
Lloyd,  was  awarded  third  prize  for 
her  story  "Who  Sings  the  Lullaby/' 
which  was  published  in  the  Maga- 
zine in  May  1956.  Other  contrib- 
utors receiving  citations  and  awards 
were  Olive  Woolley  Burt,  Eva 
Willes  Wangsgaard,  Alice  Morrey 
Bailey,  Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  Lael  W. 
Hill,  Christie  Lund  Coles,  Leone  E. 
McCune,  Mabel  Harmer,  Ethel 
Jacobson,  Sarah  O.  Moss,  and  Mary 
Ek  Knowles. 
A  LICE  CAPORALE,  ninth  grad- 
er, thirteen  years  old,  of  Living- 
ston, New  Jersey,  sent  to  a  famous 
hat  manufacturer  some  designs  of 
the  kind  of  hats  her  age  would  like 
to  wear.  One  was  put  into  produc- 
tion, and  Alice  receives  a  royalty  on 
every  sale  of  this  model. 
ELIZABETH  YATES,  an  author 
of  children's  books,  says  that 
children  require  the  satisfaction  that 
comes  from  creativity  for  good,  safe, 
and  competent  growth.  But  it 
must  be  something  with  functional 
usefulness  —  a  dainty  cooking  dish, 
artistic  decoration,  handwork.  How- 
ever, she  asserts,  "Hurry  is  death  to 
creativity.  That  is  a  process  which 
requires  time." 
Page  737

E 
AIL 
VOL.  43 
NOVEMBER  1956 
NO.  11 
Jt   drome  for  ifieltef  Society 
When  we  build,  let  us  think  that  we  build  forever.  Let  it  not  be  for  present  delight 
nor  for  present  use  alone;  let  it  be  such  work  as  our  descendants  will  thank  us  for  .  .  . 
(From  Seven  Lamps  oi  Architecture,  by  John  Ruskin) 
npHE  Relief  Society  Building  now 
stands  completed,  "a  splendor 
in  the  sun."  Dedicated  October  3, 
1956,  with  prayers  of  gratitude  and 
devotion,  hallowed  with  music,  and 
blessed  by  prophetic  words,  this 
building  represents  the  world-wide 
sisterhood  —  their  home  —  and  the 
symbol  of  the  ideals  and  accom- 
plishments of  Relief  Society  women 
everywhere.* 
Built  in  the  beloved  valley  of 
Deseret,  circled  by  the  high  hills 
and  towered  mountains,  the  build- 
ing rises  as  a  fulfillment  of  promise 
"in  the  shadow  of  the  temple/' 
Strength  and  beauty  are  evident  in 
the  simplicity  of  outline  and  in 
the  shining  surface  of  the  polished 
stone.  The  steps  are  wide  and  in- 
viting, the  halls  spacious  and  wel- 
coming, the  offices  commodious 
and  tasteful,  yet  expressing  in  their 
appointments  refinement  and  im- 
maculate order. 
The  building  is  designed  to  meet 
the  needs  of  an  ever-growing  society, 
expressing  the  ideals  and  purposes 
of  the  many  women  who  believe 
that  "charity  never  faileth"  and 
strive  to  live  according  to  the  re- 
quirements of  their  high  mission. 
In  all  the  world  there  is  no  other 
building  planned  by  women,  con- 
structed in  large  part  by  the  offer- 
ings of  women,  built  for  the  work 
of  women,  yet  directed  by  prophetic 
counseling  of  the  Priesthood. 
As  Relief  Society  members,  we 
are  grateful  to  be  of  the  house  and 
of  the  lineage  of  eternal  builders. 
As  the  present  guardians  of  a  dear- 
ly loved  heritage,  we  stand  today  in 
the  brief,  bright  moment  of  ac- 
complishment, rejoicing  in  this  time 
of  fulfillment.  We  are  as  gleaners 
who  have  harvested  from  the  past, 
and  we  are  as  sowers  who  plant  the 
seeds  for  tomorrow's  reaping. 
We  honor  and  remember  those 
devoted  sisters  who  accepted  with 
humility  and  thanksgiving  the  key 
which  the  Prophet  turned  for  them. 
Nauvoo,  the  barrier  plains,  the  des- 
ert valleys,  the  faraway  frontiers— 
these  are  the  pictures  of  the  past. 
We  look  forward  to  the  future, 
when  our  daughters  and  our  grand- 
daughters shall  be  Relief  Society 
builders  and  shall  receive  from  our 
hands  the  precious  gifts  of  sister- 
hood and  service.  In  that  time,  in 
another  era,  they  shall  say:  "This 
house  our  mothers  built  for  us." 
We  are  that  golden  link  in  time 
which  binds  the  historic  days  to  the 
*The  proceedings  of  the  dedication  of  the  Relief  Society  Building  will  appear  in 
the  December  issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
Page  738