[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
{jQirthday  (congratulations 
The  Birthday  Congratulations  column,  for  women  ninety  years  of  age 
and  older,  which  has  been  part  of  the  "Woman's  Sphere"  page,  will  gener- 
ally be  found,  beginning  with  this  issue  of  the  Magazine,  on  the  page 
facing  the  inside  back  cover. 
Page  740

IRozella  (btnngham   (^raat    it  lakes  LKugs 
of  ^Intricate   Jje signs 
"DOZELLA  Stringham  Grant,  Glendale,  California,  has  made  more  than  one  hundred 
**■  rugs.  Using  cast-off  woolen  materials  cut  on  the  bias  in  three-fourths  inch  wide 
strips,  she  crochets  the  strips  together  with  carpet  warp.  Occasionally,  she  makes  rugs 
of  solid  color,  but  finds  greater  scope  for  her  artistry  in  using  blending  and  contrasting 
colors  in  many  all-over  and  "swirl"  designs.  In  some  of  the  rugs  she  makes  a  recurring 
border  motif  of  colorful  figures  on  a  lighter  ground,  and  the  edges  are  made  of  the  same 
colors  as  the  border  motifs.  She  has  also  made  many  braided  and  hooked  rugs,  and  it 
is  easy  for  her  to  see  in  any  home  where  a  colorful  homemade  rug  could  be  placed  to 
advantage.  She  believes  that  a  woman's  hands  are  made  for  homemaking — for  mak- 
ing beautiful  handwork  to  beautify  her  home — and  the  homes  of  others. 
Mrs.  Grant,  now  ninety-four  years  old,  is  also  an  excellent  cook,  being  particularly 
famous  among  her  friends  for  her  homemade  cookies  and  whole-wheat  bread.  She  is 
the  mother  of  six  children,  grandmother  to  sixteen,  and  great-grandmother  to  thirty- 
five.  She  has  been  a  Relief  Society  secretary,  a  counselor,  and  a  president,  and  has 
lived  in  her  own  life  the  ideals  of  charity  and  service  which  are  exemplified  in  Relief 
Society  work. 
KsLutuma 
Gene  RomoJo 
Like  a  gorgeous  bird  of  tropic  birth 
With  widespread  pinions, 
Splendorous  autumn  hovers  over  earth, 
Deepening  the  hues  of  ungirthed  gold 
In  sunlit  glory 
Radiating  over  mountain  crests  and  wold. 
And  when  the  time  comes  for  autumn's  end  of  duty, 
Like  a  topic,  molting  bird,  it  sheds  its  beauty. 
Page  741

is  More  than  Skin  Deep! f 
{Beauty  o/s   1 1  lore  cJhan  Sntn  ^Jjeep 
What  is  beauty?    Who  can  have  it? 
Ask  John  "Robert  Powers,  world-famous  authority  on  the  subject. 
After  many  years  of  choosing  and  training  beautiful  models,  he  will  tell 
you,  though  it  sounds  trite: 
'There  are  certain  features  that  most  beautiful  women  have  in 
common"  ...  'a  glow  of  health,"  "a  radiant  personality,"  "a  complete 
Page  742
