[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Developing Safeguards for Youth | Author: Delbert L. Stapley]
Young people should understand that truth, and thus gain the desire to keep the body clean, morally pure, and always clothed in righteousness, honorably fulfilling the purpose of its creation and thus be assured the joys of purity of life and clean conscience. Teach youth the reasons for the why of living a clean life. We are living in a modern world which cannot be changed. Young people must learn how to live in the presence of these modern conditions and still express a wholesome, integrated response to them. We should help build in each young person a set of standards and life objectives that would cause him to cut out the things that destroy and cultivate those that build security and happiness. Build up meaningfully the value of a clean life and make it desirable, attractive, positive, and inviting. Morality should not be taught always in a negative manner with emphasis upon its evils and_ remorses, but from a positive approach extolling the beauties and _satisfactions of a virtuous, clean, moral life, for virtue is its own reward. Parents must recognize that their children are exposed to multiple kinds of activities in this modern world of amusements and commercialism that invite the temptation to sin. So many activities are shining allurements that appear attractive, but whose pathway, if followed, will undermine the _ basic qualities of good character and virtue. Somehow parents must succeed in teaching their sons and daughters chastity as a way of life despite the existence of these and other temptations to which they are constantly subjected. Young girls like to be popular and sought after. Often they falsely assume that in order to "arrive" they must yield to advances and intimacies of boys. What an indictment against parents who fail to teach and fortify their children to resist all advances and thus retain their honor, virtue, and good character which will be to their everlasting joy and happiness,

DEVELOPING SAFEGUARDS FOR YOUTH

Mothers, how close are you to your daughters? Do you pal with them? Do they share their problems and secrets with you, knowing that they shall receive sympathetic understanding and helpful counsel and guidance? Or do they prefer to go to young people of their own age and social group or clique to unburden their hearts concerning personal problems and seek counsel and advice that should come from the home? 'Too many young people are afraid to discuss intimate matters with parents because they are shrugged off for lack of interest, or time, or it is something not to be talked about, when to youth it is important and maybe a pressing matter, a problem with which they are presently faced. A satisfying answer and wise direction may be needed to protect and safeguard them against pitfalls that might be imminent in their lives. Youth require understanding and help in the process of growing up, for it is the most critical and important time in their lives.

ARENTS should constantly analyze the home to be sure it is an ideal home according to the highest Church standards, with a proper environment conducive to joyful and fruitful living. Does the home promote love and affection? Is there respect of children toward parents and parents toward children? Are the teachings of the gospel fully lived in the home? What about daily family prayer? Is the recommended weekly family home night religiously followed? Is the family home program of activities and functions occasionally revised 721 to meet the changing needs of children in growing up to enliven interest and promote development and progress in family and social relationships? Is the gospel taught and the principles of morality discussed in language that will interest youth and give them understanding to help them obtain the basic, wholesome satisfactions in life which include deeper fundamental loyalties such as love of God, love of the Savior, love of the gospel, love of the Church, love of fellow men, self-respect, the attainment of a happy marriage and an ideal family life, which provide a bulwark against material and worldly things? Are parents counseling, guiding, and assisting their children to find and cultivate wholesome Church companionships that will as far as possible assure dating with Latter-day Saint boys and girls that eventually will lead to their marrying within the Church, and properly in the temples of our God? Have parents worthily set the example of temple marriage before their children and honorably fulfilled all covenants and obligations received and accepted in the house of the Lord? Can these important responsibilities and opportunities for blessings mean any more to children than to parents? Parents should reflect back upon their own youth and _ activities. Problems are not so much different between then and now except in today's more modern world of fewer restraints and less inhibitions they are found in diverse and various dress which parents are not excused from knowing if they desire to give wise counsel and guidance to their sons and daughters.

122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956

Can immorality be a contributing cause to fewer temple marriages? Do young people, and particularly those who have sinned, understand the principle of repentance and how it applies to obtain forgiveness for sins? If not, they may ignorantly assume all is lost and continue in their sins and thus lose opportunity for a fruitful and happy life, Parents should practically apply religion into family relationships and life, developing the art of living with children in love and helpfulness which represents a functional side of our religion. Religion should be on an _ understanding, practical plane where children can live and enjoy it. Parents should be careful not to domineer and unnecessarily restrict the wholesome and beneficial activities of Church, school, and the social life of youth. Admittedly, however, some restraints and rules of conduct for good behavior are required. There also should be a controlled pattern of parent activities to provide a rich home life and full association with children. If parents are out of the home too frequently or do not find opportunities for joint recreation and other satisfying activities with children, the teen-agers of the family are cast adrift and may seek satisfactions elsewhere which may not always be wholesome. Mothers, unless absolutely necessary, Should not obtain employment, but rather fulfill honorably their chief mission of wife, mother, and homemaker. What is more important or could pay greater dividends? The answer is obvious. Children should possess a constant feeling of security in the home. Strained relationships within the family or a feeling of insecurity within the home often leads a boy or girl to seek associations where they feel they are loved and wanted, which could be among questionable associates. Permit children to feel free to bring their friends home to parties and socials after dates, and then the parents welcome and cordially help entertain them when wisdom dictates. It requires kindness, love, and comradeship on the part of the parents to solve the problems of youth. There should always be a close parent-child relationship, one where confidence rules supreme and where the rights and views of children are respected and listened to courteously in the spirit of helpfulness. Parents always must be alert to the needs of their children, and also wisely counsel them on how to protect themselves against sinful advances or compromising situations.