[Vol43 | November 1956 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Wangsgaard]
[POETRY November Afternoon — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart 715 Mountain Range Leslie Savage Clark 722 Anniversary in Chrysanthemums Maryhale Woolsey 723 The Tatted Lace Norma W. Wrathall 735 Not Just the Heart Catherine E. Berry 739 Autumn Gene Romolo 741 Far Are These Ways Alice Morrey Bailey 743 Sketch for November Lael W. Hill 755 The Almighty Jessie Dagsland Johannessen 760 Autumn Mood Vesta N. Lukei 766 Perennial Dorothy J. Roberts 783 Reluctant Season Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
Mrs.  Christensen  also  won  the  sec- 
ond prize  in  the  unpublished  poetry 
division.  Vesta  P.  Crawford,  As- 
sociate Editor  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  placed  first  in  the  unpub- 
lished poetry  division,  and  was 
awarded  a  citation.  Maryhale  Wool- 
sey  was  awarded  second  prize  for 
her  story  "Now  Is  a  Man  Grown," 
which  won  first  place  last  year  in 
the  Relief  Society  Short  Story  Con- 
test and  was  published  in  the  Maga- 
zine in  January  1956.  Another  con- 
tributor to  the  Magazine,  Rosa  Lee 
Lloyd,  was  awarded  third  prize  for 
her  story  "Who  Sings  the  Lullaby/' 
which  was  published  in  the  Maga- 
zine in  May  1956.  Other  contrib- 
utors receiving  citations  and  awards 
were  Olive  Woolley  Burt,  Eva 
Willes  Wangsgaard,  Alice  Morrey 
Bailey,  Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  Lael  W. 
Hill,  Christie  Lund  Coles,  Leone  E. 
McCune,  Mabel  Harmer,  Ethel 
Jacobson,  Sarah  O.  Moss,  and  Mary 
Ek  Knowles. 
A  LICE  CAPORALE,  ninth  grad- 
er, thirteen  years  old,  of  Living- 
ston, New  Jersey,  sent  to  a  famous 
hat  manufacturer  some  designs  of 
the  kind  of  hats  her  age  would  like 
to  wear.  One  was  put  into  produc- 
tion, and  Alice  receives  a  royalty  on 
every  sale  of  this  model. 
ELIZABETH  YATES,  an  author 
of  children's  books,  says  that 
children  require  the  satisfaction  that 
comes  from  creativity  for  good,  safe, 
and  competent  growth.  But  it 
must  be  something  with  functional 
usefulness  —  a  dainty  cooking  dish, 
artistic  decoration,  handwork.  How- 
ever, she  asserts,  "Hurry  is  death  to 
creativity.  That  is  a  process  which 
requires  time." 
Page  737
