[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY. | Author: Unknown]

ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY.

[Concluded.]
	Aug. 26th Rollin obtained a carriage at
3 o’clock, and we went sight-seeing until
6 o’clock p. m. This was very entertain-
ing, bordering on the exquisite. We went
upon the much elevated plateau to the
hotel of the grand summer resort. We
drove through Grand Avenue, and on to
the “Garden of the Gods.” Which is
quite as grand as the name indicates.
	Aug. 11th. We all went to the Office of
the Automatic Telephone Co. I was
charmed with the simplicity, and apparent
perfection, of its work. At 11 o’clock I
took the car for Salida, arriving at 7 p. m.
Here I took the advantage of the lay over
privilege on my ticket.
	Aug. 20th. At 3 o’clock a. m. I paid
$6.20 for my ticket to Monte Vista Col.
and again checking baggage, was soon on
the way. With extra engine we were tug-
ging up hill through Royal Gorge; then
south to Alamosa: and then west to Monte
Vista.
	Aug. 21st. At 10 o’clock I was met
with horse and carriage, by my Nephew
Barnard Field Stevens, my twin brothers only
son, who was left at six months old with-
out a father. His wife Jennie, a short
time since returned from Denver having
passed through two very serious surgical
operations; and not yet entirely recovered.
No time was wasted in forming an acquaint-
ance, with wife, daughter and son. The
feeling was cordial, and mutual. No pains
was spared to make me feel, that I was
quite at home. I found Field a business
man. He has worked for years at harness-
making; and carries between four and five
thousand dollars worth of stock. He also
has a farm of two quarter sections, all un-
der cultivation, and calls himself worth
about eighteen thousand dollars. He
went to Monte Vista because of being sorely
afflicted with asthma, about nine years ago,
and is now a perfect picture of health. He
so loved the location, that he persuaded his
mother and step-father, to move there, from
the northern part of Iowa, and they also;
are in love with their southern home, with
their son, and wife, and one child near by.
	Aug 25th.—After dinner, according to
previous arrangements, we started for a
twenty miles drive, to the farm above men-
tioned. My sister-in-law Mary Boutwell,
and husband, Field and I, arrived there
just in time to pitch tent and have a camp
supper before dark. Straw was gathered
from a large stack and the bed made, and

[Column 2]
the table-cloth placed on it. Thus we
dined. How did I get through the night?
I divided my time between the bed inside,
and star-gazing outside the tent. The men
were lost somewhere in the stack.
	Monday Aug. 26th. Field said, “What
do you think of the crops? I never saw the
like. Here the fields of wheat, barley, and
oats, had grown far beyond my conception.
	Should I describe the scene as I saw it in
the field, the account would appear fabu-
lous; so I will say, come and borrow the
book of the description of the valley, and
its resources, and read for yourselves.
Many straws of grain are grown in a cluster
from one kernel. From a cluster I counted
from one straw, measuring, six feet and
one inch, and made an estimate, that in the
entire cluster, there, must be fifteen hun-
dred oats. Field said he expected his farm
this year, to yield a profit of from eighteen
to twenty five hundred dollars. The land
is sub-irrigated. That is the ditches are
made ten rods apart, and the water soaks
under. This is of but little trouble. The
hard pan below the soil, holds the water
which soaks up. The climate the year
round is mild. The altitude is 7,665 ft.
the thermometer registers very high, al-
though the heat is not so preceptible in the
sun within about thirty degrees as is ex-
pressed, when a cloud passes under the
sun, a sudden change is made. Hence there
is a great difference in this altitude between
sun and shade. The roads are made by
nature, not a stone for twenty miles, they
are sandy and packed with traveling over
them. Not a hollow, or hill did I see.
One teamster with two wagons and four
horses can haul seventy five hundred. I
had no need to brush dust from my cloth-
ing after a travel of forty miles, going one
way and returning another. The moisture
rises from the ground causing a dew that
lays the dust. As we were traveling for
miles, past these fields, covered with tall
heavy headed grain, they extended beyond
our vision. The valley has undoubtedly,
once been submerged, hence the level sandy
surface. The beautiful white cumulous
clouds, that seemed constantly piled up
along the horizon, surrounding the valley
on the tops of the low mountains, filled
me with such admiration, that I felt that it
could properly be called the “Valley of the
Gods.” I thought this would be a grand
place for a Temple, for the second coming
of the Son of Man, or for a garden of Eden.
	I must here leave the descriptive as the
view widens before me, and bring the
reader back to the house built and owned
by my nephew. A few days before I ar-
rived, it had been visited by lightning.
The mother and both children were shocked.
The lightning passing by the piano without
injuring it, visiting three rooms in its
course, cracked the plastering along the
way, and entering the bed-room, smashed
a large plated mirror into small pieces, then
stopped its destruction by splitting the fur-
ther post ot the bedstead. Did some un-
seen power hold me back, and then again,
hurry me on, preserving me from these
destructive elements? I answer yes.
Surely the destruction by the elements as
predicted in the 24th, Chapter of Mathew are
upon us.
	Before leaving Monte Vista, with my
Nephew, and two children, I participated in
a picnic sociable, in a grove three miles dis-
tant. He belongs to two lodges, or clubs.
This one admits ladies, and he joined it,

[Column 3]
that he might take with him his wife. The
main object of this society is to sustain a
fund, to care for the sick, and bury the
dead. This union reminded me of a cele-
bration in Salt Lake City July 24th, 1849.
Having been driven from our homes in a
body, our love, and interest, as a commun-
ity were one. So it seemed that there was
much harmony with them.
	Monday Sept. 2nd. I started for home,
and at the depot parted with five of my im-
mediate kindred. Why this parting? Be-
cause I do not live for selfish ends alone
I checked my baggage, and paid my fare of
six dollars and twenty cents, to Salida, I
arrived there late in the night. Now using
my excursion return ticket. I checked my
baggage for the entire journey. For three
hours another lady and I, had to wait, with
depot iron seat accommodations We
watched closely the clock, and after our car
was past due, without any call, all rushed
to the coming car. After traveling two
miles to the East, the conductor told us
that we were on the wrong car, and going
the wrong way. Soon we were placed on
the Pullman cars going West, and rode in
the Pullman Baggage Car to Leadville, sit-
ting on a couple of camp chairs. We were
the sole occupants of this empty car. Day-
light soon exposed our lonely situation.
We were then exchanged to our car, which
had stopped for breakfast; but our change was
not for the better. This was “Peach Day” at
the Junction; and fully one and a half car
loads of people were crowded into one.
	Space here will not admit of a description
of the road, as we were going to, and com-
ing, this side of Leadville. I don’t believe
the like can be equalled on the earth, for
magnitude, grandeur, and sublimity of
rock scenery. No one could imagine the
extent without seeing it. At times, the
car windows would not admit of our eyes
beholding the top of the towering cliffs, as
they seemed to reach the skies. We went
flying with great speed, and at one place we
suddenly came to a stand still. By looking
from the platform, I saw a very large boul-
der which had purposely, or accidentally
been, precipitated upon the track, from the
perpendicular heights above. Men with
their chisels and hammers, succeeded finally
in making room for us to pass. We now
struck the dreary clay colored soil of Color-
ado, and to add to our sombre mood, our
train was three hours behind. Thus I
landed in Salt Lake City at 2 o’clock Wed-
nesday morning Sept. 4th, 1895. Soon
after I arrived home I learned that the D.
R. G. Ry. train had been visited by a “hold
up.”
	I must here remember another
cousin, who is connected with the above,
now numbered with the dead, the daughter
of Addison and Louisa Barnes Pratt, and
wife of William McGary, who favored me
with her likeness, and family record the
latter being her last written words on earth.
Ellen Sophronia Pratt McGary b. Feb. 6th,
1832. died Aug. 9th, 1895, of fatty degen-
eration of the heart. After having been
confined to her bed two days, she quietly
passed away, at Garden Grove, Anahiem
Cal. She will be remembered as the eldest
daughter of her mother’s family. In com-
mon with the family, she endured all the
privations of a pioneer life, having arrived
in Salt Lake Valley, Utah, in the fall of
1848. We were much associated together
in those early days, because of her cheerful
spirit, she claimed a place in the leading


ranks of society. She went with her
father’s family on one mission to the Society
Islands in 1849, returning in 1852.
	Since arriving home I have taken up the
thread of life anew, and am continuing the
work of compiling the Stevens Genealogy.
All records of this family name should be
reported at once, to
	DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY,
	24 W. North Temple
	Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CONFERENCE N. A. W. S. A.
	CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
		WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
		AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
		14, 1895.
				[Continued.]
	MISS ANTHONY, upon introducing Mrs.
Stansbury said:
	"We have with us a representative of
your neighboring State that is a little in ad-
vance of this last action of Utah in enfran-
chising women, and that is a representative
from Colorado where the women voted at
the last election of '94 and as you remem-
ber were enfranchised by a vote of seven
thousand majority at the election of '93,
Mrs. Stansbury, and I want to say to you
that she is no small part of the Editorial
staff of the Rocky Mountain News, and if
you behave yourselves you will probably
see yourselves reflected in the columns of
that paper. (applause.)
	REMARKS BY MRS. L. M. STANSBURY.
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:—
I am very glad that Aunt Susan has told
you that it is my business to write rather
than to talk. I am afraid in our state we
would think it was cruel to ask me to speak
after the speakers that you have listened to
here this morning, and yet it seems that we
from Colorado ought to thank you for the
help that Utah has given us. You have
heard a great deal about what we have to
go through in politics, you have heard
how utterly disreputable it is to go to the
primaries, caucuses and conventions. I
think from my experience that we have had
a great deal more disreputable time in secur-
ing the ballot than in using it, in the State
of Colorado. In the State of Colorado the
struggle has been going on ever since
General McCook suggested it. In the first
legislature I believe in 1876 when the Con-
stitutional Convention was held there, there
was a very hard struggle to get it put into
our Constitution, but our men were not so
well posted in regard to suffrage as they are
today. In 1882 there was a bill introduced
which met an untimely death as bills are
wont to do. There was a suffrage associa-
tion formed for the purpose of raising
money to help to carry their campaign. I
think there were only 8 charter members,
ours has about 180; we kept on working by
ourselves, I do not think there were more
than 20 or 30 of us in regular attendance
until the first legislature convened. After
that, my friends, we introduced a bill, we
were all very young and very green, we
did not know anything about a bill. They 
told us a constitutional amendment was
necessary but it took the lawyers forty-five
years to find that out. We found a young
man who had a constitutional amendment
which provided that no foreigner should
vote on his first papers. He said he was
willing to strike out the word "male"

[Column 2]
which would carry with it equal suffrage to
all women. So in spite of all their ridicule
if we did not know enough to get our bill
in we knew enough to get a rider, and horse
and rider went down together. When the
next legislature met we had a bill. There
were three more bills besides ours to give
suffrage to woman, and it was that more
than anything else that made us feel the
sentiment was general. I think that was
what gave us courage to go to the National
Woman's Association and ask for help. In
1893 the women of Utah held a silver meeting
a few weeks after. That was the first of
our suffrage campaign- We did not desig-
nate it a suffrage meeting, some women
talked silver and some talked suffrage.
Miss Shaw said that she did not know what
she would vote for. Now we are very un-
certain, we may be sorry which ever way
we vote but we do know that we will
vote for silver just as early, and just as fast
as the law will allow us. You have heard
a great deal about the silent influence of
women. Now in our state we have come
to the conclusion that the silent influence
is to talk and talk to a man until he will
give you anything on earth to make you
shut up. I really believe our men have
concluded that they would rather let us go
and vote as we pleased, than to talk and
labor and ask them to do this and that and
the other thing, because they are all willing
to please the ladies.
	I did not expect to speak at all here this
morning; if I had, I would have put on
some bigger sleeves. You understand that
Mr. Worth invented this style himself as he
thought that large sleeves would be neces-
sary to accommodate the muscles.
	Not having expected to speak to you at
all I will make way for some one who is
better capable of doing so. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony—This was one of the
political candidates for State Superintendent.
She did not get quite votes enough to elect
her but nevertheless she was one of the
nominees of the democratic party, Mrs. C.
C. Bradford of Colorado. 
REMARKS BY MRS. C. C. BRADFORD
	Miss President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
Just fancy coming as a representative of a
state where women vote, to a Territory
where women don't yet quite vote and be
presented as a defeated candidate. It is
perfectly dreadful. Nevertheless I was the
first woman ever nominated for a state of-
ficer in Colorado, and though I was beaten
they cannot take that honor from me.
	It seems to me that it is almost like call-
ing for a rush light when the full blaze of
the sun has been permitted to enter a room
to ask me to talk after Miss Anthony and
Miss Shaw have thrilled you as they have
done this morning, it is unkind to you, but
it is a very great kindness to me because
Miss Anthony, Miss Shaw and the women
who have worked so long for Suffrage have
helped to put me on the throne and I am
here; (applause) and I am supremely
thankful to them for putting me there. I
like it a great deal better just as Miss Shaw
said than when I was behind the throne.
Another thing, so many people seem to
think that women are going to become so
terribly masculine and do so many terrible
things when they get into politics. I have
been in politics up to my eyes, and up to
my head, and I stumped the state of Col-
orado twice, once as an organizer of a politi-
cal party, and once as a candidate who did

[Column 3]
not get elected, and I have never met in all
the thousand miles I have traveled with
more reverence or respect than I did then,
when I was upon the throne. I never met
anything more cordial or more delightful
than the good fellowship of the men and
women who were glad to support the wo-
man who had helped to win suffrage for
them, and who chose to cast her lot with a
political party who absolutely hadn't the
ghost of a show. I do not believe in wo-
men seeking offices but I do believe in edu-
cational offices in every way, I believe that
the love and education of women are going
to show through some offices in the state
just as much as will that of the men.
	In regard to the differences of sex, that has
been so ably touched upon that I need not
refer to it except that being in politics will
make you more prominent than you ever
were before, because every woman who has
a child knows absolutely that she must take
an interest in the state—and I am so glad
as Miss Shaw says that you are coming in
as a state—I know you are and I believe
every hope will be confirmed, and I know
the faith and the hope of the Utah Women
and the faith and hope of the Colorado wo-
men for their sisters when this great and
glorious Territory becomes a State; and let
me thank God for the recognition of equal
suffrage here in Utah, and it will yet pre-
vail from clime to clime, from shore to
shore and from Canada to Mexico, wher-
ever the flag of the United States waves it
will be dear to our hearts for it is also a
Suffrage flag. (Applause.)
REMARKS BY MRS. C. E. ALLEN, PRESIDENT
	OE UTAH FEDERATION OF CLUBS.
	Ladies and Gentlemen—I am very glad
to be asked to assist in extending the wel-
come of Utah to our guests Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw. It is most fitting that at
this time the women of Utah should confer
with these distinguished leaders in all that
tends to the elevation of women. This is a
time when very many women here in Utah
are hesitating about what is best to be done.
There are many women who are influenced
by the old conservative feeling which for a
long time influenced me, that political life
was not best for women. It is but a few
years since I became associated with this
movement but for a long time I recognized
this great truth. In this respect my little
daughter far excels me. When she was
eight years old we were walking up Main
street and she said to me, "Mother, I don't
see why the women can't take some part in
politics," and this opinion she has adhered
to up to this time. I finally became con-
vinced that moral reform was impossible
until the ballot was granted to women.
	I used to feel that it would interfere with
home life, but I now see that the safety of
the home depends upon woman suffrage. I
read somewhere in an old law book that the
first of all Roman laws was the preserva-
tion of the home. What a revolution it
would work in our American politics if this
beautiful idea could be carried into effect
from the mother's standpoint. The life of
our very nation is threatened by the evil in-
fluences which threaten our homes, and
who shall speak concerning the young men
if not the home-makers. I believe if this
idea is carried into our politics it will make
of woman the power she should be. I
honor the women who are laboring for the
cause and all who are in sympathy with
them and I believe their noble deeds will be
recorded on the pages of history, that the


[Column 1]
reformation was far deeper than it appeared
on the outside, that their true work was in
restoring our political principle to its true
basis. (Applause.)
	Miss Anthony:—Last February we held
our first National Conference south of the
Mason and Dixon line and when the wo-
men from Alabama, Florida and Georgia
were introduced to the audience I was com-
pelled to say that the southern women were
truly born orators and speakers and I begin
to think the women of Utah are born ora-
tors and speakers as well as the southern
women.
	Mrs. Joannah Melton President of the
G. A. R. Relief Society was introduced by
Miss Anthony.
	REMARKS BY MRS. MELTON.
At the last moment your chairman has
invited me to say a word of welcome to our
guests Miss Anthony and Miss Shaw which
I feel very much pleased to do. Twenty-
six years ago; I am not going to say as long
as I live for I don’t want to tell you that,
but 26 years ago in the City of Lafayette.
Indiana, there were posters all over the city
that Miss Susan B. Anthony and Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton would appear at the
Opera House. Of course the women of the
city were very much interested and we all
asked what kind of women they were.
Some of the gentlemen said “Now don’t
you go to that Opera House to hear those
women,’’ “Why, what is the reason?
Why should’nt we go and hear those wo-
men, are they not women?’’ “Yes, but
they are men women” (laughter) and I was
a little bit doubtful about going but I said
to myself: “Well, I won’t believe anything
until I see it and I am going to see what
kind of a woman a man woman is”
(laughter) So I went to the Opera House
and I saw women that I only wished that I
could be just like them, they were so
modest and motherly and kind and charm-
ing in their speeches and their conversation
that I was converted then and there before
I left the Opera House and I thought that
Woman’s Suffrage was just right. About
ten years ago I received a letter from Miss
Anthony telling me that she had heard of
me through some friends asking me to take
up the work in the Dakotas’. It seemed a
very hard thing to do in those two states
then because they were divided, but we
succeeded during the little while we worked.
	We were encouraged in our work but it
was just the same as it is here a great many
of the women had a great many arguments
against Woman Suffrage. Since coming
here six years ago I have watched the wo-
men here very closely and I see you have
some very able women and especially this
little woman (alluding to Mrs. Wells) seems
to be a bundle of executive power and she
has a good corps behind her and I knew the
suffrage question was safe in their hands.
I have done all the work I could but you
know the opposition which women are re-
ceiving at this present time and mostly
from the men. It was my privilege to be
invited to a home to meet some of our
Scotch delegates that were here at the Con-
vention, and there were five or six present
and several ladies, some with their wives.
One woman came in and said, “Well, I
suppose you gentlemen voted for us?” One
gentleman replied “You hit me hard!” and
I knew from that that he must have done it
and voted the other way. The lady re-
plied: “Oh, the women have shown to the

[Column 2]
world what they can do, they have shown
they have brains, and now I think it is time
that we have the ballot.” An old gentle-
man remarked to me: “that is my daughter,
she graduated at college, she is a mother
and now she says ‘I will show the people
what I can do.” That is just the argu-
ment that she used that now we have at-
tained this power we have got to the top
and we must not go backwards again. But
ladies, I think you have a grand future be-
fore you and with all the opposition to com-
bat you will succeed in this Territory.
	As Miss Shaw said, I have no patience with
women who do not think that the women
will do right in this Territory when given
the ballot, I have faith to know that the
women have heads and hearts and are just
as true and noble and kindly towards their
own sex as the men, and I don’t see why
the women of this Territory should not
vote just as intelligently for themselves as
a man. One gentleman in the Convention
said his wife was a Republican and he was
a Democrat. He said they would not want
to fight on the question. If I want to do
anything that my husband is opposed to I
don’t say anything I just keep quiet but I
just do my own way. (Laughter) Now I
tell you ladies and gentlemen that we are
just going to get there. Just look at that
ship of State as it comes in. Do you see
those Eastern States? Do you see the wo-
men bending down and looking up? They
are just as eager as the ones marching in
side by side. See the twin States of Dakota
they don’t come in equal they are just half.
Now we have the State of Colorado march-
in, men and women look alike. Sometimes
when we see them together we don’t know
which is the man and which is the woman.
See the State of Wyoming, the men and
women look just alike, and as Miss Shaw
said last night “We live together so many
years that we grow to look alike” and here
comes this beautiful young State of Utah.
Why it is dressed beautifully in white, com-
ing in with purity and glory and every-
thing behind it with men and women
equal. (Applause.)


