[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: STATEHOOD. | Author: Unknown]

STATEHOOD.

	THE election for Statehood and state of-
ficers in Utah is drawing near, and the
people are growing correspondingly anxious
on the momentous questions that are to be
decided by vote within a short time. Cer-
tainly the coming election is to be the most
important one in the history of the Ter-
ritory; and it is not to be wondered at that
there is some considerable enthusiasm
among both men and women on the subject.
	The question of woman’s enfranchise-
ment is involved in the issue of the adop-
tion of the Constitution now very soon to
be voted upon, and it is only natural that
women who believe in equal suffrage should
be very greatly exercised as to the results
on their own account. It is more than
eight years since the women of Utah were
deprived of the franchise, which they had
enjoyed and exercised for seventeen years,
and which they appreciated as a blessing
and a privilege. The probability is that
they are soon to enter the new state full-
fledged citizens, politically equal in all re-
spects to men, and in view of this condi-
tion they have been, and are, preparing
themselves for the actual duties and
responsibilities of citizenship.
	The political meetings, primaries and
conventions, held in the interest of state-
hood, have all been educational in the
truest sense, and those who have attended
such places, and taken part in the proceed-
ings must necessarily realize what an ad-
vantage all this has been. It has been a
school of political science, and one can-
not help feeling that it will be productive of
good to those who have participated, if they
shall be wise and prudent, and careful in-
stead of becoming extremists. The wo-
men generally speaking who have been at-
tending political gatherings are not those
who have had opportunities to pursue the
studies of civil government, or political
economy in the school room or college, and
therefore the more need of this sort of
practical instruction.
	Because of the agitation of the equal suf-
frage matter in the Constitutional Conven-
tion many women attended that Convention
day after day, and heard the speeches and
listened to the proceedings, and became
somewhat familiar with the subjects pre-
sented and discussed there, and also in-
terested in these things to a certain extent;
some more than others, but all who had
thought earnestly of woman’s position be-
fore the law, must have been impressed

[Column 2]
with the ideas advanced there by the able
and eloquent speakers, who with so much
zeal and earnestness, championed the cause
of women, and endeavored to convince the
opponents of equal suffrage that it was only
just and right, that it should be embodied
in the Constitution itself instead of making
it a separate clause, or worse still, leaving it
to some future legislature in the new state.
All honor to those men who sought to ob-
tain justice for women in the new state of
Utah, and their names will be handed down
to posterity as benefactors of the race,
when woman’s true position shall make it
possible for equality in government to be
the rule and not the exception.
	But speaking advisedly it must be ap-
parent to every right minded person that
the agitation and interest in political mat-
ters which has grown out of the Conven-
tion because of the arguments pro and con
upon suffrage, has been the means of spread-
ing the knowledge of how governments
are formed and maintained, and an under-
standing of the laws which effect the well-
being of society in the city and county and
in the commonwealth.
	It cannot but be productive of good and
it is a hopeful outlook for any community
when women, the mothers and wives lay
hold of the grave questions of state, that
agitate the public mind and assist intel-
ligently to better the conditions of living
according to their best thought and high
sense of honor and honesty; when they
bring the tender conscience into the struggle
for justice and equality, and when through
careful investigation of the political situa-
tion they bring to bear that intuition and
remarkable foresight that characterizes in a
great degree most women, then men will
realize how beneficial is their help and won-
der how they could have been so long
neglectful of this new and potent element
in the management of the affairs of state.
	Every woman who loves Utah and
desires its prosperity should do her utmost
to urge men (who have the ballot) to vote
for statehood, and see to it as far as possible
that no vote shall be lost because of neglect
or indifference. Be as conscientious as
though the vote were your own and remem-
ber that one vote more or less might turn
the scale for or against.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	THE general conference of the Relief
Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints was held in the Assembly
Hall in this city, Thursday, Oct. 3rd. The
morning session opened at 10 o’clock,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Her counselor, Sisters Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith, were present on the
stand, also other members of the Central
Board and a goodly number of presidents of
the Stake organizations of the Society from
a distance.  
	The congregation joined in singing,
“Redeemer of Israel,” and prayer was of-
fered by Elder George Benson from Idaho;
the usual exercises followed, and the presi-
dent made an opening address in which she
welcomed all present in her kind motherly
way, and expressed her pleasure in seeing
so many, some of whom had traveled long
distances to attend the conference. Re-
ports were given and other remarks made
by Brother Eyring of Mexico and sisters
Julia P. Lindsey, Mary S. Anderson, Em-
ma Jane Bennett and Lulu G. Richards,

[Column 2]
who represented Stakes in Idaho; Sisters
Adeline H. Barber, Lydia Rich, Mary
Harding, Jane S. Richards, Susan Grant,
Ann C. Woodbury and Brother George
Benson. The subjects treated upon were
the duties of the Relief Society, the home,
the mother, the training of the children,
charity, humility, prayer, union, and other
important matters, spiritual and temporal;
the storing of grain was spoken of by each
one who reported, and an unusual interest
seemed manifest in this respect.
	The president made closing remarks in
which she alluded to some of her early ex-
periences in the Church, which were ex-
ceedingly interesting, and of which she
spoke with intense feeling. The meeting
closed with the doxology; and benediction
by Counselor B. W. Smith.
	The afternoon session was numerously
attended, notwithstanding the concert in the
Tabernacle. On the stand besides the gen-
eral officers of the society and several
presidents of Stake organizations, were
four of the Apostles, F. D. Richards, F.
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith and H. J.
Grant. Prayer was offered by Apostle Ly-
man.
	Reports were made by Sisters Olivia
Widerborg, Sage Jones, Artemisia Seeg-
miller, Mary Ann Hyde and Mary Bell
Heywood.
	Ann C. Bartlett, of Uintah, who had
recently visited England, Mary John, Ruth
Pack, Rhoda A. Lyman, Mary Pitchforth,
all of these sisters gave favorable accounts
of the several organizations where they
preside, and in fact the whole tenor of the
meeting proves the Relief Society to be in-
creasing in influence and in importance and
in prosperity throughout all the stakes of
Zion. After the report from the sisters
Elder John Henry Smith was the first
speaker; he referred in the course of his re-
marks to the great change which had taken
place during the past few years in regard
to our position before the world, and spoke
particularly of the recent Irrigation Con-
gress in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and
the honor shown to President George Q.
Cannon and others of our people. Elder
H. J. Grant followed in a similar strain and
spoke of the prophecy of President Wood-
ruff in Brigham City that the time had come
for the Lord to favor Zion, etc.; thought
the Saints should be careful and not get
lifted up with pride.
	Elder F. M. Lyman in his remarks dwelt
specially upon the labors of the sisters in
the society and in the home, and expressed
the deep interest he had always taken in
the sisters’ organizations, and his apprecia-
tion of their efforts for good in various
directions.
	President George Q. Cannon who came
in late after having addressed the audience
in the Tabernacle, occupied a few minutes
in speaking to the sisters; giving wise
counsel and timely instructions; encourag-
ing them in the path of duty as Latter-day
Saints and as mothers, commending their
labors in the past, and especially the in-
tegrity and courage they had manifested
heretofore in times of trial and adverse cir-
cumstances; touched upon many subjects
pertaining to woman's advancement here
and elsewhere, and to the present political
conditions in Utah in view of statehood
and of equal suffrage in the near future.
In closing his remarks President Cannon
invoked the blessings of the Lord upon the
sisters, mentioning especially the presiding
officers of the society.


Apostle F. D. Richards fully appreciated
the labors of the Relief Society and referred
to the excellent instructions given by the
brethren who had spoke; felt the sisters
needed the blessings and encouragement of
the presiding authorities in the various
stakes and wards, and gave the presidents
excellent advice about many things con-
nected with their organization.
	President Young made a few remarks
thanking the brethren for their presence.
President M. I. Horne presented the gen-
eral officers who were sustained by unani-
mous vote, and the conference was adjourn-
ed until next October. Singing, “Our
God We Raise to Thee." Dismissed with
prayer by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	E. B. Wells, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AN OPEN LETTER FROM DR.
