GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER . 369 "Simon answered and said, I suppose that he to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged." This parable was given to show the relation between forgiveness and love: that where there is much of one, there is an abundance of the other. Forgiveness not only begets love in the heart of the one who is forgiven but it develops love in the heart of the one who forgives. The parable was also a polite rebuke to the unforgiveness of the Pharisee at whose house Jesus was a guest. By reference to verse thirty-nine it will be seen that on that occasion Jesus read the mind of his hypocritical host and answered his unexpressed opinion of Jesus as to whether he was a prophet or an impostor. For an understanding of the setting and the circumstance of this parable a study of Luke 7-37-50 should be made. It should be clearly kept in mind that in the light of the life of Jesus, it cannot be thought that sinning to be forgiven that we may love. Or be loved is taught by this parable. The woman had not transgressed to be forgiven but through weakness and having repented she came to Jesus for an authoritative release from the thraldom of her iniquity, and having 'been forgiven, her gratitude brought her to Jesus with gifts expressive of her appreciation of his power and generosity of spirit. The Parable of the Prodigal Son?Luke 15:11-32. - "And he said, A certain man had two sons: "And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. "And not many days after, the younger son gathered all together and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. "And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. "And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. "And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no mangave unto him. "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have 'bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! "I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, "And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. "And he arose and came to his father. But when he was yet - Js RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September) LESSON III Literature (Third Week in September) OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES?Continued In our last lesson on Holmes, we emphasized his genial nature, a nature that radiated sunshine as definitely as any light or heat center radiates light and warmth. In Edward Bok's famous autobiography, he tells us of his visit to Holmes. It is so interesting that we shall include part of it in this lesson: Bok arrived in Boston on. Sunday evening; and the first thing he did was to dispatch a note, by messenger, to Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, announcing the important fact that he was there, and what his errand was, and asking whether he might come up and see Dr. Holmes any time the next day. Edward naively told him that he could come as early as Dr. Holmes liked?by breakfast time, he was assured, as Edward was all alone! Dr. Holmes' amusement at this ingenuous note may be imagined. Within the hour the boy brought back this answer: "My Dear Boy:?I shall certainly look for you tomorrow morning at eight o'clock to have a piece of pie with me. That is real New England, you know. "Very cordially yours, "Oliver Wendell Holmes." Edward was there at eight o'clock. Strictly speaking, he was there at seven-thirty, and found the author already at his desk in that room overlooking the Charles River, which he learned in after years to know better. "Well," was the cheery greeting, "you couldn't wait until eight for your breakfast, could you? Neither could I, when I was a boy. I used to have my breakfast at seven," and then telling the boy all about his boyhood, the cheery poet led him to the dining-room, and for the first time he breakfasted away from home and ate pie?and that with "The 'Autocrat' at his own breakfast table! A cosier time no boy could have had. Just the two were there, and the smiling face that looked out over the plates and cups gave GUIDE LESSONS FOR SEPTEMBER .. 373 the boy courage to tell all that this trip was going to mean to him. "And you have come on just to see us, have you?" chuckled the poet, "Now, tell me, what good do you think you will get out of it?" He was told what the idea was: that every successful man had something to tell a boy, that would be likely to help him, and that Edward Bok wanted to see the men who had written books that people enjoyed. Dr. Holmes could not conceal his amusement at all this. When breakfast was finished, Doctor Holmes said: "Do you know that I am a full-fledged carpenter? No? Well, I am. Come into my carpenter shop." And he led the way into a front-basement room where there was a complete carpenter's outfit. "You know I am a doctor," he explained, "and this shop is my medicine. I believe that every man must have a hobby that is as different from his regular work as it is possible to be. It is not good for a man to work all the time at one thing. So this is my hobby. This is my change. I like to putter away at these things. Every day I try to come down here for an hour or so. It rests me because it gives my mind a complete change. For, whether you believe it or not," he added with his inimitable chuckle, "to make a poem and to make a chair are two very different things."
"Now," he continued, "if you think you can learn something from me, learn that, and remember it when you are a man. Don't keep always at your business, whatever it may be. It makes no difference how much you like it. The more you like it, the more dangerous it is. When you grow up you will understand what I mean by an 'outlet'?a hobby, that is?in your life, and it must be so different from your regular work that it will take your thoughts into an entirely different direction. We doctors call it a safety-valve, and it is. I would much rather," concluded the poet, "you would forget all that I have ever written than that you should forget what I tell you about having a safety-valve."
"And now do you know," smilingly said the poet, "about the Charles River here?" as they returned to his study and stood before the large bay window. "I love this river," he said. "Yes, I love it," he repeated; "I love it in summer or in winter." And then he was quiet for a minute or so.
Edward asked him which of his poems were his favorites.
"Well," he said musingly, "I think The Chambered Nautilus is my most finished piece of work, and I suppose it is my favorite. But there are also: The Voiceless, My Aviary, written at this window, The Battle of Bunker Hill, and Dorothy Q., written to the portrait of my great-grandmother which you see on the wall there. All these I have a liking for, and when I speak of the
374