Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 1924 AUXILIARY GROUP CONVENTIONS The Auxiliary Group Convention season with the Relief Societies, Sunday Schools, Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and Primary Associations cooperating, will open July 19, 1924, and will extend through the months of August, September, October and November. The plan heretofore adopted of holding these conventions in connection with the regular quarterly conferences of the stakes will be followed. The whole of the first day of the conference, usually Saturday, and the forenoon of the second day, usually Sunday, will be devoted to meetings of the auxiliaries. A regular quarterly conference session will be held at 2 p.m. In the afternoon of the second day, usually Sunday. The schedule of meetings has been simplified, tewer meetings are programed, but the work is none the less intensive and thorough. The general plan contemplates a joint meeting of the members of all auxiliary stake boards, separate meetings of the stake boards of each auxiliary, with stake and ward officers, a public meeting giving each auxiliary opportunity to present its message and appeal to the people. And an interview of the general representatives with their respective stake superintendencies or presidencies and secretaries. The stake and ward music committees and stake and ward recreation committees will also meet. 364 " RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE An attendance contest among auxiliary associations is planned. The stake and ward organizations will vie with each other for first honors for attendance of their workers at convention meetings. One hundred per cent attendance of all stake board members and a full representation from each ward will be sought. Programs of the meetings will be distributed to stake and ward presiding authorities. Other necessary, general and special instructions will be sent out from the office of the General Board. The success of the convention in each stake and for each organization depends upon the full cooperation, support, and attendance of stake board and ward workers, and the conventions are planned with no other thought except that every convention will be thoroughly successful. Parowan Stake.  The attendance in Parowan stake was greatly increased in 1923, as a result of a contest for pictures offered as prizes, the pictures later to be hung in the Relief Society rooms. Tongan Mission. Mrs. Lavera W. Coombs, president of the Relief Society in the Tongan mission, writes : "I am inclosing the report of the Tongan Relief Societies for 1923. I feel that although we are greatly hindered through having no text or reference books, the Relief Societies are a strong factor for good in our missionary work. "There are three conferences in this mission, viz., Vavau, Haapai, and Togatabu, and all three donated liberally towards the mission chapel. The Vavau branch bought material for the
new Church school dormitory. This branch also donated half the necessary funds for buying a small cutter (sail boat) for the use of the missionaries and local priesthood in that conference.
"The Neiafu members (four in number) sent to Salt Lake City for an individual sacrament set of which they are justly proud. The Haapai ward spent all their cash on hand, as well as their time and energy, caring for one of the elders through his sickness and burial. Our women throughout the whole mission have attracted much attention through their splendid charity work during the past year, which has been extended to 'Mormons' and non-'Mormons' alike." Morgan Stake.
At the recent Relief Society conference held in Morgan stake, a splendid attendance record was made, there being 60%o f the enrolled members present. Among the interesting numbers on the program were a talk on women as citizens, and law enforcement, and a demonstration of the use of the teachers' topic in a home. Bingham. Stake. The Relief Societies of Bingham stake have many accomplishments to their credit for 1923. They contributed $2,400 to furnish twelve rooms of the Idaho Falls Hospital, besides: sewing 1,864 pieces, including sheets, pillow cases, curtains, towels, napkins, surgical garments, etc. They are at present giving one afternoon a month to hospital sewing. A joint meeting of. The Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary was held in this stake recently in connection with. The Priesthood conference, in which welfare work was discussed. The Idaho Falls Post says of this meeting: "A health conference, to be conducted by the State-Department of Public Welfare, under the direction of Dr. F. W. Almond, state health examiner, and his assistants, is to be held ? in Idaho Falls during the first week of August according to an announcement made Saturday afternoon at the Mothers' meeting conducted under the auspices of the various branches of the L. D.'S. Church. "This will be the first time in the history of Bonneville county that a free clinic will be held for the examination of mothers. Maternity and Infant Welfare were announced as the two subjects which will come in for the greatest consideration this year, and in an address given by Mrs. S. J. Ewin of the state bureau of child hygiene, at the meeting Saturday afternoon, this subject was handled in a most enlightening way. Resolutions were adopted in which it was resolved that the young people of Bonneville county should be better educated and' prepared for parenthood and home making; that higher ideals be instilled into the sons and daughters for parenthood, and great stress was laid on the necessity of teaching parenthood in the public schools. "It was also resolved by the organization to advocate the aid, in a financial and educational way, of the cause of maternity and infant welfare, and a further resolution resented the attitude of an individual or organization who would sacrifice the life of a mother and child for material gain. "Two very instructive and enjoyable meetings were conducted, in the morning and afternoon, on Saturday, under the direction of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. And the Primary department. "The meetings were presided over by Mrs. James Laird, president of the Bingham stake Relief Society." NOTES FROM THE FIELD Sevier Stake. The Sevier stake board conducted an excursion to the Manti temple in March, when one hundred ninety people were officiated for. Teton Stake. Late in the year of 1923, the stake and local officers and members of the Relief Society gave a testimonial for the retiring stake board. A splendid program was given and a delicious luncheon served. President Susie M. Wilson and her counselors and the honorary members of the board were presented with appropriate gifts. During the recent priesthood conference in Teton, the Relief Society held a very successful conference with 150 in attendance, and with 15 of the 16 wards represented. Liberty Stake. The Relief Societies of Liberty stake recently gave a testimonial in honor of the bishops of the various wards of the stake. This testimonial was in the form of an excursion to the temple. Two hundred thirty-five Relief Society workers responded to this invitation. Box Elder Stake. A demonstrative home health center for infants and children of pre-school age was given last December in Brigham City, sponsored by the stake board of Relief Society in conjunction with the other women's organizations of the city, and under the direction of the Utah State Board of Health. Comfortable quarters were provided in the court house, and the doctors and dentists of the city gave their time for two days to examine and prescribe for the 106 children of pre-school age who were brought to the health center. Two hundred sixty-seven defects were found in these children, the majority being of the nose and throat. Only three were absolutely normal, including the teeth. Nine prenatal conferences were given. In February, the follow-up work commenced by what is hoped will be a permanent health center organization. One day each week will be given to examining and prescribing for children and noting the progress made by those examined in previous clinics. The purpose of this work is that all physical handicaps causing mental backwardness or retardation in school will have been removed before the child begins his schooling. Another feature of the year's work in the Relief Society is the adoption of the following slogan to be repeated by the congregation at each meeting, led by a sister who will relate a faithpromoting incident of her own experience or knowledge: "We stand for faith in God?ever looking upward and onward, with love and service for humanity." 366. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In Memoriam Blackfoot Stake. Relief Socjety stake presidents and Relief Society workers generally will be sorry to learn of the death of Mrs. Signe A. Davis,. President of the Blackfoot stake Relief Society. Mrs. Davis was an exceptional woman in many ways and one of our strong and capable stake presidents. The General Board appreciates her excellent work, both as stake secretary and stake president, and extends through these columns heartfelt sympathy to her husband and family. Tintic Stake. Mrs. Rosetta Birch, first counselor in the Tintic Stake Relief Society, and wife of President E. Franklin Birch, passed away suddenly in the late winter. Mrs. Birch had for seven years served faithfully in the stake work and in the community generally, and is deeply mourned by all who knew her. North Sanpete Stake. Mrs. Rebecca Winters Tucker, aged 87, has passed to her reward after many years of faithful service in mortality. She was for thirty-four years a member of the Fairview Relief Society presidency, and was known for her good deeds and helpfulness. Mrs. Tucker was born in Kirtland, Ohio, and in 1852 came to Ultah with her parents, Hyrum and Rebecca Winters. Her mother, Rebecca Winters, died and was buried on the trail from Iowa to Utah. The grave, originally marked with a wagon tire, has since become a place of interest to many Latter-day Saints, and a monument has taken the place of the original marker. Mrs. Tucker was the wife of Amasa Tucker, and six children have been born to them. In pioneer days she often fed the Indians and made beds all over the floor for them. She was always ready to help the poor and needy, to minister to. The sick and to lay out the dead. Her slogan was, "Hold each other's character sacred; do not judge hastily." She is survived by one son and three daughters, thirty grand-children, eigthy great grand-children, and two great great grand-children. Wayne Stake In the death of Celia A. Heath, the Torrey Relief Society lost one of its most faithful workers: Mrs, Heath, who has been a permanent resident of Torrey for many years, acted as a teacher in the Relief Society and was later chosen as a counselor, which position she held at the time of her death. She was always energetic and faithful in her labors. Mrs, Heath was the mother of thirteen children, Guide Lessons for September LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September) THE PARABLES OF OUR SAVIOR (Continued) Next to the kingdom of heaven itself, it would seem that forgiveness was a matter of concern with the Lord Jesus. And this is certainly consistent with his mission. He is the great Source of the remission of sins, but for his sacrifice the race sin which brought death into the world would hold men in their graves forever. We cannot say that Jesus was a great repenter because he did not sin; but we can say that he was the greatest forgiver that is known to history. He taught forgiveness, he practiced forgiveness; and among his last utterances he called upon his Father to forgive all men. Little wonder then that we are divinely commanded to forgive all men, and told that our being forgiven depends upon our forgiveness of others. No one can consistently adopt the Lord's prayer who is in an unforgiving state of mind. Forgiveness is one of the conditions of heaven, perhaps one of the most important conditions. There may be selfishness in repentance but perfect forgiveness is entirely altruistic. It is the great test which determines our capability to do as we would be done by. It seems plain that without forgiving hearts no place could be heaven and no condition can be heavenly. Then it follows that to be unforgiving means to be unfit for heaven. Jesus preached forgiveness in sermons, and taught it in parable, and practiced it marvelously. The Parable of the Unmerciful Servant?Matt. 18:23-35. "Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto the king, which did take account of his servants. "And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents: "But forasmuch as he had naught to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all that lie had, and payment io be made:. "The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. 368 +RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt. "But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellow servants which owed him an hundred pence; and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. "And his fellow servant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. "And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. "So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done. "Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me: "Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee? "And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors till he should pay all that was due unto him. "So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses." This parable was evidently directed to the business custom of enslaving for debt. The kingdom of heaven is compared to a king, just and merciful, one to whom an account must be rendered and adjustments made in keeping with the willingness and ability of the debtor to pay. Then as now business men were in positions of power and needed for their own sakes to be shown that there is no perfect justice without mercy. This parable brought them face to face with forgiveness in a business transaction in which three things were illustrated: First, that heaven would demand a reckoning for opportunities and abilities entrusted to every individual; second, that forgiveness was a practice of heaven; and third, that unforgiveness in man resulted in a necessary unforgiveness of heaven even for sins that had previously been forgiven. The lesson is illustrative of a temporary admittance into heaven through forgiveness and then a sudden banishment from heaven through the manifestation of an unheavenly state on man's part and the authority and power that keep heaven heavenly. The Parable of the Two Debtors?Luke 7:41-43. "There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty: "And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him most?