The Eighteenth Amendment
At a recent session of the General Board, a resolution was passed favoring the enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment and asking that a copy of this resolution be sent to the women's organizations in Washington, D. C., who are uniting for the protection of the Amendment and the enforcement of its provisions. Women in the United States took the initiative years ago in organizing the W. C. T. U. and in supporting other organizations that have been and are in sympathy with prohibition. There is no doubt that at present the wet forces are rallying all their strength and would be very happy if they could alter the law or failing in that, destroy its effectiveness. These people have always been the foes of women's interests. Women and children have always been the victims of the misery that follows in the wake of drunkenness; consequently, it is only natural that they should be aroused, to the fullest extent, at any movement that purposes interfering with the present status, in relation to prohibition. The greatest embarrassment in this matter, as in many others, is felt because some people who would naturally be ex-


pected to be using all their strength to support the amendment, appear to have broken down and have joined the ranks of those who are clamoring for a change in the law. The Relief Society, whose conviction and practice is in accord with total abstinence, wishes to condemn any attempt to modify the Eighteenth Amendment, and to give full and unqualified support to it. As this editorial goes to press, we are on the very eve of the meeting of both our national political conventions. The present indication is that there will be a greater number of women participating as delegates in these conventions than ever before. We trust that if any attempt is made to alter prevailing conditions, that the women will resist it to the fullness of their power, and that no woman will so far forget the dignity of her position as the mother and guardian of humanity, as to allow her influence and vote in any way to support those who would wish for a change in this law. Most satisfactory evidence of woman's force in this matter is to be found in some statements appearing in the issue of May 24, of the Literary Digest, which we quote: "If Prohibition were to be submitted to a national referendum, who doubts that women would appear at the polls in equal number with the men? And who, incidentally, doubts as to which side would get these votes?" "Woman's Suffrage must be credited with keeping Prohibition a permanent fixture here. The Anti-Saloon League leaders say that once the women voters believe a candidate for a law-enforcing office to be crooked or unquestionably wet, they may be depended upon to defeat him. Not only this. Evil-doers in Oregon have it in the back of their heads that women do not like evil doings, and that these women have a ballot. In this way the women voters of this state are like a standing army, that, though it may never be called out, is its own reason for not being called out."
Judge Florence Allen
Two American women, both engaged in administering the laws of the United States, are prominent in the public eye, at the present time. The one is Judge Florence Allen of the Supreme Court of the state of Ohio, the other is Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney General. Judge Florence Allen was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, her mother's home being, at present, in Salt Lake City. She is the third daughter of a family consisting of four daughters and one son,?all gifted. Her father, Clarence E. Allen was, as a young man, on the faculty of Western Reserve University, Ohio, where he taught Latin and Greek. He came to Utah because of failing health. From his adopted state he was sent to the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States. Her mother's name is Corrine Tuckerman. She was the daughter of Jacob Tuckerman of Ohio, who was the head of Farmers


College, Ohio. Mrs. Allen was educated at Mt. Holyoke and at Smith College. She has the distinction of being the first woman to apply for admission to Smith College. Judge Allen's eldest sister, Mrs. Esther A. Gaw, is assistant dean at Mills College in California, and is at present lecturing on the psychology of Music. Her second sister, Helen Allen Shockey, lives in Nevada, and is one of the most gifted speakers to be found among women in the United States. Florence is the third daughter, and has the distinction of being the first woman in all the world to serve as Judge in a Supreme Court. The fourth sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Sloan, resides in San Diego, California. There is one brother whose name is John, now on a farm in Ohio. Florence Allen was born March 23, 1885, in Salt Lake City, in an adobe house located on Third South, and Third East, the present site of the Y. W. C. A. Building. As a child she attended the Hammond Hall, a private school belonging to the New West system. Her mother states that nothing has been more characteristic of her throughout her life than her great desire to learn, Before she went to school she insisted on her sister Helen, who was slightly older than she, teaching her everything she knew, and when her father began tutoring the two eldest daughters in Latin and Greek, she sat up at the table with them and astonished everybody by keeping up with them. When she entered, she was ready for the third grade, chiefly because she had absorbed so much information from other members of the family. She left Hammond Hall at thirteen, and devoted herself to music, Miss Grace Flanders being her teacher. At sixteen, she went east and entered Western Reserve University, where she won the Phi Beta Kappa scholarship. She was editor of the College Magazine while at Western Reserve. After concluding her work, she went to Berlin to study music, and while there was assistant to Arthur Abell, then editor of the Musical Courier. Her ambition was to become a recognized lecturer on music, but she found that there was not much of a demand for her work in this country. So she turned music critic, and for some time served as musical editor of The Cleveland Plain Dealer, giving lectures on music whenever requested. In the meantime, she studied in Western Reserve University, in due course of time taking her M. A. from that institution. By this time she had made up her mind that she wished to study law, and for that reason entered the University of Chicago. While there Miss Frances Keller, the immigration expert, became interested in her, and induced her to go to New York to assist her with her work. She consented, and took up her law work in the University of New York. She assisted herself financially while in New York
JUDGE FLORENCE ALLEN 343
by giving musical lectures. While there she chummed with Miss Bertha Miller, who is now the reader for McCalls' Magazine. After being graduated from the New York Law School, she went back to Cleveland to practice law. She located and announced herself as a practicing lawyer. At this particular time she states she was frightened to death lest anyone might come to seek her services. She practiced three or four years and did exceedingly well. She has something of a genius for making friends, and women who had need of legal work, took pains to seek her out, and give her the opportunity to do their work. Miss Allen says she has had extraordinary luck in her friends. Her first service in the realm of law, apart from that of practicing attorney, was that of Assistant County Prosecutor, of Cuyahoga county. Later she was elected Judge of the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga county, where she was eminently successful. On the 20th day of April, 1922, we heard a woman before the National Convention of the League of Women Voters, from the state of Ohio, say that Judge Allen had been most successful in a court where the work was regarded by all who knew the situation as exceedingly hard. She has been particularly successful in breaking up gangs of boys who were looked upon as incorrigibles. This woman further said, "Florence Allen will be elected to the Supreme Court of Ohio next fall; the women of Ohio say so, irrespective of political affiliations." Miss Allen is independent in her politics, and ran on an independent ticket. She had 43,000 signatures to the petition presented that made it possible for her to run for the election. The election occurred on the 7th of November, last. Miss Allen had two opponents in the contest, but came through with a very large majority. Her mother, from whom most of this information is obtained, says she likes the practice of law very much. She is very independent in her character, and is quite indifferent to what people say and think about her. "She is not," says her mother, "as good a speaker as her sister Helen," and we wish to state that, in our judgment, her mother is quite correct in this statement. Since having this interview, we have had the pleasure of listening to Judge Allen speak, and we wish to say that she is not as attractive a speaker as her sister Helen, to whom public speaking is a gift. Judge Allen's speeches are plain, with no attempt at oratory. She merely says to people, "Things in the political world are very bad, but we do not need to have them so. If you get something in the cog of the wheel of your Ford, you get it out; if something has got into the cog of the wheels of government, let's get it out." She is an indefatigable worker?loves to work?loves nothing better than to throw herself whole-souled into the subject she has at hand. She does not indulge much in social recreation, escapes


just as many social invitations as she can, seldom accepting a dinner engagement. What she likes to do above all other things is to go home, after work in the office is over, and go to bed. Eight o'clock is her usual bedtime, if she can make it possible. She likes to get up in the morning and have a walk, then go to her desk and get things cleared up, letters answered, the work of the day out of the way, before she appears in Court. When Miss Allen visited Salt Lake City, in the summer of 1923, she delivered an address in the First Congregational Church. Her address was a strong plea for the abolition of war and the settlement of national differences through an international court; she maintained that war had not yet been pronounced a crime, and she said that the first duty of all nations is to make it a criminal act on the part of a nation to participate in war, so that nations become liable, and may be justifiably summoned before the court in the event of participation in war. Miss Allen was, on the night of her address in Salt Lake City, in excellent spirits, seemingly very happy to be home with her friends in Salt Lake City, and with her mother. It must be a matter of sincere pride to all Utahns, particularly the women of Utah, that the first woman in the world to be elected Judge of a Supreme Court was born within the state. It is no small distinction to Salt Lake City that it has given birth to and nurtured in her tender years, this woman who, through legal means, is striving in every way possible to advance the cause of women. We trust this sketch embodies some things as yet unpublished, for in days to come when data concerning Judge Allen is sought, we wish her native state to be able to make its contribution.
America By Mrs. B. H. Butler
On the mountains and in the valleys wide, Nature's beauties smile on every side. Oh, America is the land Where no king shall ever stand To molest our freedoms' banner pure and true.
So remember, one and all Be true to our nation's call, And the "Stars and Stripes" will always wave for you.