[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 217 | General Feature | Handicraft Is a | Wide World]
Handicraft Is a Wide World Anna Evert Terry, Idaho Falls, Idaho, has explored the wide world of handicraft and has adapted her findings to the beautification of her own home and the homes of her relatives, friends, and neighbors. Versatility describes her accomplishments in domestic art, art needlework, dressmaking, original designing, many handicrafts, and the teaching of these skills to others. Machine sewing, Roman cutwork, Mexican drawnwork, teneriffe (wheel motifs), shadow embroidery, carrmacross lace, Limerick lace (patterned on net, with a pointed needle, or hooked with a tambour needle); Armenian lace, and cluny lace; hedebo (Danish openwork embroidery), eyelet embroidery, Irish and filet crocheting, knitting, weaving of many kinds; knitted and crocheted doilies, smocking, netting, tatting, quiltmaking; hooked and crocheted rugs, pom-pom rugs; embroidered pictures in pictorial art; art in oils, watercolors, pastels, and crayons. Sister Terry is interested in learning new skills, whether they be simple or intricate. Her interest in designing and needlework began at an early age, and she received special training in handicraft at Brigham Young University and the University of Chicago. She has been a teacher in domestic art at Brigham Young University and Ricks Academy, and a professional demonstrator for several large department stores. She laughingly expresses a family tradition by saying that perhaps all her granddaughters and future great-granddaughters will be pliers of needles and wielders of crochet hooks. Sister Terry is mother to four children, and grandmother to twenty-one. 217 'Chapter 2 » Lal Nora _ Blake, having no family ties, after the death of her mother, secures a schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, and takes a Synopsis: train into the western mountain country, which seems magnificent to her, but strange and frightening as well. W The conductor led the way out of the train into the swirling snow. ''There's a small station house here, Miss," he said. "They keep the fire banked, and you'll be all right until morning. I'll leave the sack of mail with you. When the boy comes to pick it up in the morning, you can ride into town with him." He unlatched the door and lit the lantern that stood on a small table. Then he stirred the fire and put on another large log. The lantern and fireplace combined to fill the little room with frightening shadows. Nora, who had known much of loneliness, had never felt so completely alone. The man turned to go. "Do you have a place to stay in Banner?" he asked.