[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 226 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

Relief Society Activities a CT A roy 2 Northern States Mission Relief Society Conducts Mission-Wide Conference August 19-21, 1966 North Wisconsin District sisters who presented the theme "Pattern for Living," left to right: Kathleen Hoffman, First Counselor; Lucille Maas; Carol Hoffman, President, Lyndhurst Branch Relief Society; Muriel Cerveny, President, North Wisconsin District Relief Society; Eleanor Paiser, SecretaryTreasurer. Arte H. Henderson, Supervisor, Northern States Mission Relief Society, sends the report of Sister Ira Mae Palmer, President, Nerthern States Mission Relief Society: 'From the distant points of the Northern States Mission, approximately 240 Relief Society officers and class leaders met for the annual mission-wide conference. The 'Pattern for Living,' theme was climaxed with a dinner and style show, the models having selected patterns and made their own lovely creations. There was an evening of talent presentations, a skit, and inspirational addresses. A day was spent in instruction for officers and class leaders. A bazaar, with attractive displays by the districts and branches of the mission, was outstanding. Music was furnished by each district, with special numbers by the combined Singing Mothers. "The closing session of the conference was held Sunday morning. Among the speakers were Mission President Warren W. Henderson, his Counselors, and Sister Henderson. The climax of the conference was a masterful presentation of 'God So Loved the World,' by Luacine Clark Fox. The event was not only a time of instruction for the coming year, but proved to be one of sweet fellowship and spiritual uplift." 226 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Boise Stakes (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Tri-Stake Concert April 15, 1966 Seated, center, front: Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society; LaRue Campbell, chorister, seated at the left of Sister Madsen. Margaret Badger, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "In 1953, there was just one stake in Boise. Elnora Loveland was president, and among her board members was LaRue Campbell, chorister, who dreamed of having a Singing Mothers chorus so large and wonderful that Sister Florence J. Madsen would come from her home in Provo, Utah, to be guest conductor. "The stake was divided in 1954, and Sister Campbell found herself in the new stake as chorister. Her Singing Mothers had the quality, but not the number, to fulfill her dream. Late in 1965, the third stake was formed, and Sister Campbell decided the time was then. In January, plans were made to have a tri-stake Singing Mothers Concert. Through the efforts of President Afton Ellison, Lavon Hadley, and Margaret Badger; and choristers LaRue Campbell, Jean Petersen, and Julia Atkinson; organists Shirley Dahl, Jackie Christensen, and Collette Howard; and 180 Singing Mothers, the concert was held April 15, 1966. Sister Madsen blessed us with her presence, directing four of her own compositions and arrangements. Red roses were presented to her, and she was deeply moved when, as a final number and tribute, the Singing Mothers sang her own composition 'The Lord Bless You and Keep You.' The outstanding performance thrilled the capacity crowd and surpassed even Sister Campbell's dream." 

227 March 1967

 Blaine Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Concert April 29, 1966 Hazel Perron, President, Blaine Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 29, the Singing Mothers of the Blaine Stake Relief Society presented a concert of sacred, secular, and patriotic songs. The theme for the concert was "The Sound of Music." The director was Vernetta Woodbury, chorister (standing in the front row at the right), with the accompaniment by stake organist Thelma Johnson (seated at the piano). The narration was written by Lula Thatcher (fifth from the right on the second row). "Other stake officers in the chorus were: Elva Bluemer, Secretary-Treasurer (third from the right in the second row); Marilyn Harris, First Counselor (sixth from the left on the back row); Vera Clifford, Magazine representative, (seventh from the left on the back row). Sister Perron sang with the group, but was absent when the picture was taken. Each ward presented a special number, which included piano and organ solos, a trio, a vocal solo, and a sextette. There were about fifty Singing Mothers in the group." Burley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board Entertains Ward Presidents at Luncheon, September 16, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Annie Beck, organist; Ruth Budge, chorister; Loanda Manning, cultural refinement class leader; Helen Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Middle row, left to right: Merna Marchant, social relations class leader; Mary Bateman, Second Counselor. Back row, left to right: LaVerne Darrington, President; Effie Mills, First Counselor; Ruth Lyons, Magazine representative; Norma Sorensen, spiritual living class leader. Sister Darrington reports: '""The theme 'Managing Our Resources' was emphasized by a skit in the form of a classroom, called 'A School of Understanding' in four different areas of responsibility. The subject matter covered the problems of Relief Society, and suggested better planning, improving the quality, and putting to use the resources available. "Our tables were attractively decorated with gold-colored daisies in blue covered bottles, and we used colorful place mats made from wallpaper. "The fifty sisters who attended felt the ideas contributed would be helpful in their Ward Relief Societies, and in their homes." Mesa South Stake (Arizona) Visiting Teacher Convention October 9, 1966 Marie W. Kocherhans, President, Mesa South Stake Relief Society, reports: "Well over 200 sisters were in attendance, with forty-nine of them being honored for having served for twenty-five years or more. Thirty-five were present for the picture. Of this special group, nineteen had taught for over forty years. Sister Mary Brown of the Ninth Ward (seated front row, center, holding a plaque), has served for sixty-five years, and is still an active visiting teacher at the age of eighty-five. She was given special mention and a lovely Relief Society pin. The other forty-eight sisters were presented with a small book as special recognition, and in gratitude for many years of excellent service. "A special song concerning visiting teaching was sung and dramatized. The beautiful film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. Delicious refreshments were served. The inspiration of the Lord and the blessings of visiting teaching were felt by all." 228 VISI ol Tie TEACHING PS HES EX PRDLECE WEY AM LA VISITING TEACHER? ~ March 1967 French Polynesian Mission Relief Society Executive Officers August 1966 Left to right: Marie Wong, Secretary-Treasurer; Naumi Maro, Second Counselor; Eliza Sam You, President; Tetua Tehani, First Counselor; Diane S. Stone, former Supervisor, French Polynesian Mission Relief Society. Sister Stone reports: "We hold a mission-wide Relief Society bazaar in the capital city of Papeete each year. This year's bazaar was the most successful of all, in that the Tahitian handicrafts and homemade articles (hand-woven hats, purses, quilts, toys, aprons, articles of clothing, and other items) were more beautiful than ever. Everything was sold within two hours of the opening of the bazaar, which was officially presided over by Madame Jean Sicurani, wife of the French Governor of French Polynesia. The net profits totaled over $5,000. Eighteen branch Relief Societies had booths, and the entire affair was completely organized by the presidency mentioned above, assisted by Sister Jeannette Taerea." Sister Elsie L. Richards has since succeeded Sister Stone as Supervisor. J vy Cumorah Stake (New York) Visual Aids For Family Home Evening Displayed at Leadership Meeting, September 17, 1966 Nathane Anderson, President, Cumorah Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of Cumorah Stake, directed by Counselor Caroline Heskyns, introduced a project to the homemaking personnel at stake leadership meeting. Each sister made a flannel board and received a package of outline figures. Instructions were given for mounting and coloring these drawings, which included Biblical characters, a pioneer family, a modern family (adaptable to suit need), portraits of the Prophet Joseph Smith and President McKay, the Savior, and four books of scripture. It is hoped that the families of the stake will work together to complete the sets, and that the Family Home Evening lessons will be enriched by the use of the visual aids. The project was enthusiastically received and will be carried to the individual Relief Sogieties through the meetings." Orem West Stake (Utah) Conducts Visiting Teacher Convention August 9, 1966 Front row, left to right: Luella Olsen; Mary Morrill; Nora Kofford; Maren Jensen; Lillian Salisbury; Adelaide Shaw; Pearl Talbot. Second row, left to right: Viola Hyde; Martha Pyne; Lenora Lamereaux; Ethel Dickey; Iva Dean Newell; Mary Rappeleye; Ella Newell; Myra Adams; Belva Loveridge. Back row, left to right: Catherine S. Meldrum, Secretary-Treasurer; Madge J. Thorn, President; Golda Mangum; Nora Goode; Cinderella Stewart; Florence Wilkinson; Sarah Ellen Muzzell; Zola Robbins; Lucille H. Trane, First Counselor; Janet J. Wellington, Second Counselor. Sister Thorn reports: "The visiting teachers of Orem West Stake were instructed and inspired at a convention, August 9, 1966. Bishop Grant Thorn, a former mission president in England, gave an inspiring address. Catherine Terris, stake visiting teacher message leader, gave important instructions. Musical selections were rendered by the 4th Ward Singing Mothers. Tribute was paid to Sister Maren Jensen, age ninety, still serving as a visiting teacher; and to Valerie Prestwich, age nineteen, the youngest visiting teacher in the stake. The sisters pictured above were honored and presented with carnation corsages for serving thirty-five years or more." 230 Murray South Stake (Utah) Opening Social Presents Theme ''An Open Door" August 26, 1966 Thelma T. Carpenter, President, Murray South Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme for this year is 'Behold, I have set before thee an open door.' The table decorations carried out this theme. The following objectives of Relief Society were emphasized in the program and printed on a beautifully designed booklet which was presented to each sister: "Spiritual Growth—Relief Society's principles are to practice holiness. The all-encompassing reason for its existence is to save souls. "Happier Living—Happiness comes to those who make others happy. HapPiness is family togetherness. "Companionship—How joyous and lasting are the companionships we make and keep in Relief Society. "Service—The cherishing, tender care which marked the work of Jesus is emulated by Relief Society sisters. "Knowledge—The Lord has admonished his children to gain knowledge of all things by study and also by faith. ' "Perfect Womanhood—lIn Relief Society, we find great women who provide patterns of virtues to be emulated, virtues of modesty and beautiful womanliness. "The display in the picture represents the open door of the Family Home Evening. The Singing Mothers of Murray South Stake presented music for the opening social, with Darlene H. Anderson as chorister and Coralie B. Richardson as organist."