[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 182 | General Feature | Editorial: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow | Belle S. Spafford]
''Woodland, in winter, is wonderful for a writer,"' she says, ''absolute quiet.'' 181 Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow EDITORIAL Volume 54 March 1967 Number 3 MM Belle S. Spafford, President Wi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor WE Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor WM Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B, Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 182 Hazel S. Love. Fawn H, Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Elien N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba 0. Carling m= From the vantage point of one and one quarter centuries of time, we view our beloved Relief Society, divine in origin, steadfast in purpose, magnificent in accomplishment. Today, 300,000 women, choice and privileged women of many nations and from varied walks of life, attest the inspiration that guides its destiny, and they gratefully acknowledge the blessings that come to them as individuals through their membership in the Society. Today, Relief Society stands firm and strong, joyfully contributing of its strength to the work of the Church as called upon by the Priesthood. It is touching the hearts of countless of our Father's children, lifting them to better ways of thinking and doing; it is steadily spreading its influence in ever-widening circles. So rich is its heritage, so great and glorious is its present strength and accomplishment that we are led to wonder what will be its future! Can it increase in size and usefulness; can it further extend its influence for good; can it become a greater power for righteousness among womankind? Has it reached its peak of growth and accomplishment, or is it destined to grow still larger in size, more expansive in service, and more powerful in influence? To us, Relief Society is only on the threshold of its divine mission. Its present size is but a token of what the future portends. Is it unreasonable to believe that whereas today we have close to onethird million members, tomorrow the Society will claim its millions? Surely the strength of today will serve as a foundation upon which the women of tomorrow will build, and the achievements of yesterday and today will be steppingstones upon which they will walk into an even more glorious future. Is it immoderate to envision tomorrow's leaders as women of intelligence and vigor, trained in the ways of leadership accomplishment, and possessing a high degree of Relief Society and Church scholarship? Is it irrational to say that tomorrow's members will impressively exemplify true Latter-day Saint womanhood, their lives reflecting in words and actions the training, the tempering, the refining influence of Relief Society? Can we not expect them to stand out as ensamples to all the world of the influence, the beauty, the joy of righteous living? Is it inconsistent to say that where today's ministrations bless tens of thousands, tomorrow's will bless hundreds of thousands? The Lord has promised that his gospel will never again be taken from the earth, and that it is to be ''proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers'' (D&C 1:23). The sisters of tomorrow must and will do their part in the fulfillment of this promise, and they will do so, in largest measure, through the organized Relief Societies. Relief Society will stand increasingly firm and strong, a beacon light and guiding star for women of all nations. It will continue to rise until it becomes a mighty bulwark against the forces of evil that would engulf women and threaten their homes and loved ones. It will bring peace to the soul and love into the hearts and lives of endless numbers of our Father's daughters. The blessings and the benediction of the Lord will rest upon its leaders, and its offerings will be accepted of the Lord even as were those of the women of Nauvoo. Yes, March 17, 1842 long will be remembered in the history of the Church—for then came the women—and they were organized through inspiration of the Lord given to his chosen Prophet, to save souls and to aid in the building of his kingdom. May the women of today and tomorrow cherish Relief Society, advance its work, and love one another, is our constant prayer. —B. S. S. History of Relief Society (1842-1966) 183 GENERAL SUNDAY SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENCY REORGANIZED A new General Sunday School Superintendency was announced December 10, 1966, by the First Presidency of the Church. David Lawrence McKay, First Assistant Superintendent since 1952, was named as the new general superintendent, succeeding Superintendent George R. Hill. Lynn S. Richards, who was formerly Second Assistant, was named as the new first assistant, and Royden G. Derrick was named second assistant. David Lawrence McKay has been a member of the Sunday School General Board since 1944. In 1949, he was appointed second assistant superintendent, and in 1952, first assistant superintendent. He was Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Sunday School superintendent at the time of this call to the general board. Superintendent McKay received his early education in Ogden, Utah, and attended Weber College, the University of Utah, George Washington University, and Harvard University. He served as a missionary in the French part of the Swiss-German Mission, and for six months labored in the British Mission as editor of The Millenial Star. In his new appointment Superintendent McKay succeeds to a position which his father, President David O. McKay held from 1918 to 1934. His wife, Mildred Calderwood McKay, was a member of the Primary General Board. They are parents of four daughters: Midene (Mrs. Howard B. Anderson), Teddy Lyn (Mrs. Richard T. Parmley), Catherine (Mrs. Gerald B. Iba), Joyce (Mrs. Robert S. Bennett). First Assistant Superintendent Lynn S. Richards was appointed second assistant superintendent in 1952, at the time he was serving as bishop of the Federal Heights Ward in University Stake. Previously, he had been bishop of the University Ward. He had been a member of the general board of the Sunday School from 1934 to 1946. He is a graduate of Brigham Young University and Stanford University and is an attorney in Salt Lake City. In 1955, he was named president of the Brigham Young University Alumni Association. He is a son of the late President Stephen L Richards and Irene Merrill Richards. He filled a mission in the Eastern States and was a seminary principal for two years in Preston, Idaho. His wife is Lucille Covey Richards, and they have six children: Lynn S. Jr., Joseph Covey, James Mack, Rosalie Lucille (Mrs. Clarence J. Frost), Victoria Jeanette (Mrs. Stanley A. Taylor), Joyce Louise (Mrs. Verl D. Shell). Second Assistant Superintendent Royden G. Derrick has held many positions of leadership in the Church, including second counselor and first counselor in the Monument Park Stake presidency. He was graduated from West High School, Salt. Lake City, and studied engineering at the University of Utah. He received the University's College of Business Outstanding Achievement Award in 1963, and an honorary degree in 1965. Appointed to the University of Utah Board of Regents in 1957, he was elected chairman of the board in 1959, serving until 1965, when his term expired.