[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 186 | General Feature | A Piece of Grandma | Helen Hinckley Jones]
Piece of Grandma Helen Hinckley Jones w I scarcely step from the car in front of my daughter's house before I hear the shout "Grandma!" and two tiny boys come running with arms outstretched. I catch them, the little one first, as they leap from the porch, and with the greatest of joy I accept their kisses, flavored with ketchup, or chocolate, or just plain little boy. "I'm glad you came, Grandma," Craig, who uses language very well, says; and Sean, who has learned to understand English with his almost-new puppy, commands, "Grandma, sit." It is only a moment before two little hands open my handbag to explore for lifesavers; two more search my pockets for a chance cookie or an all-day-sucker. "What did you bring us, Grandma?" Craig inquires, and Sean asks hopefully, "Candy?" Their mother is embarrassed by this routine. It isn't her fault or the fault of the little boys. It's Grandma's. I like to shop for children's books and for little-boy clothing. I love to see a shine in big brown eyes; to hear exclamations of delight. It tickles me when Craig takes a crumbly cookie and haunches down over a waste basket so that he won't get crumbs on the floor. Still it sobers me that I might not be so joyously received if I came without gifts. I remember back—way back when I was five or six—the happy 186 A Piece of Grandma times when my paternal grandmother came for a visit. I think she never brought a "store-bought" present. How could she, with a half a hundred grandchildren instead of two? But she did bring other gifts. Very soon after she arrived for one of her "stays," her four steel needles began to click and one of the gray wristlets she knitted for her sons and grandsons began to elongate. "Grandma," I begged, "teach me." "Certainly I'll teach you, dear," she agreed, and from her bag came four more needles and a ball of black yarn. "Which of your dollies needs stockings?" "Sally Squawkin' Bush," I decided. My Uncle Frank had named this child, and I did all I could to make up to her for her horrible name. Soon I was knitting around and around and around without ever dropping or splitting a stitch. Another time, she came with blocks for a "nine square" in her bag. On that visit she started me setting infinitesimal stitches on my very own quilt. And while we knitted or crocheted or backstitched she talked, and I alternately prodded and listened. She was a girl in Michigan; what a change it was to leave the green woods and blue lakes for the semi-deserts of the West. Her daughters, Minerva and Adele (Nervy and Della in Grandma's stories), were truly "little women" in the olden days when there was so much to be done and so few hands to do it. She talked of faith, and how it "did very well'? When a doctor wasn't available, even when there was a bone to be set or a serious illness to combat. And, best of all, she told me of when my own papa was a little boy, a big boy doing a man's work, a football player, an elder in the Church. I'm not at all domestic; my amazed friends would kowtow to me twice if I ever turned out a razzle-dazzle salad without leaving half of it sticking to the mold or melting on the plate. But I can knit in the dark, crochet at top speed any pattern I see, and sew a fine seam any time or place a fine seam is required. These skills were part of Grandma's gift to me. The other part was much more important. I absorbed an appreciation of the past, a pride in my heritage, and I began to make plans to be a credit to my name. As I "find" the packages of orange and raspberry sours hidden in a compartment of my handbag and slip a package in each little boy's pocket, I wish that I were more sure that I knew how to give them the intangible things that Grandma knew instinctively how to give. I resolve to read to them more often, to play object identification, alphabet and number games, to sing with them the finger plays and action songs that my children enjoyed. When they are a little older they may be interested in the "olden times" when their mama was a little girl. For what are a hundred packages of candy, a gross of cookies, a few new shirts, trunks, or blanket-sleepers, when compared with a piece of Grandma's own self? 187 New Zealand A Silhouette in Green Wealtha S. Mendenhall Former Member, General Board of Relief Society Sr Auckland ISLAND a To you, I extend an invitation Pan liberal amounts of sunshine to relax in your most comfortable chair and dream with me of a paradise anchored deep in the vast South Pacific — beautiful New Zealand. This most picturesque and lush paradise consists of two principal islands sprawling lengthwise from the north to the south, covering an area of approximately 103,736 square miles. These islands rise forth out of the deep, glistening, white-capped waters and truly remind me of two delicately shaded, highly polished pieces of greenstone. A semi-precious, very hard stone located, to a great extent, at Arahura on the west coast of New Zealand's South Island. This great temperate-zoned Dominion, which lies about equal distance between the equator and the South Pole, is nestled between latitudes 34 degrees and 48 degrees south and is blessed with a very enjoyable climate. The beautiful rainstorms, water from the snowcapped peaks, and more 188 help to provide a fertile area— making a land of diversity and magnificent wonderment. To the 180,000 Maori people, New Zealand's native race, this is Aotearoa, the land of the Long White Cloud. This is home, although many of our dear bronzeskinned, dark-haired friends continually speak in lovely, softtoned voices of their genealogies, repeating them from memory, and of their ancestral homeland in far distant Hawaiki. From a Maori legend we read: We came from Hawaiki—the Great From Hawaiki—the Long—from Hawaiki—the Distant Hawaiki is the largest island in the leeward group of the Society Islands at the hub of the Polynesian Triangle. The Polynesian people within this triangle are kinsmen of the Maori, and thus they bear resemblance and speak the same basic language, but as my husband and I have traveled from island to island, such as from Tonga to Samoa or Tahiti to New Zealand or Fiji—and as we have lived among these children of God, whom we love and admire, we have been immediately aware of the fact that there is in each group a little different pronunciation for the same word. A dear old Maori gentleman explained to us that this was'brought about by dropping different letters from the dialect and by adding others. For example the '"'k" and "ng" have been omitted by the Polynesians living in the Society Islands, and thus the word Hawaiki is pronounced Havaii. In New Zealand the '"w" replaces the "v" and the "k" is restored, thus the land of the Maori forebears is pronounced Hawaiki. In the Cook Islands, the "h" is omitted, and thus the word Hawaiki is pronounced Avaiki. So we see a similarity of names and people. Yes, it was from this Hawaiki that, centuries ago, navigators, explorers, and great sea-faring Maori people, many with their wives, families, food, seeds, water plants, and their cultures, dispersed in handmade canoes, with a star and sufficient faith to guide their deliberate venture into the unknown. Uncharted waters of the Pacific. The first European to discover New Zealand was Abel Janszoon Tasman, a Dutchman. It was in 1642 that he attempted to land, but he met strong resistance from the Maori and his landing was foiled. Captain James Cook was successful in his endeavor to go ashore in 1769—127 years later.