[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: October General Conference | Author: Unknown]

OCTOBER GENERAL CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints this year
was one of the largest if not the very largest
in attendance of people ever held. It is not a
remarkable fact when we consider the growth
of the Church not merely at home by means
of family life, but the spread of the work in
other lands and in our own country, which
necssarily means numbers of Saints gath-
ering to Zion. The fact remains, how-
ever, that the crowds at the conference meet-
ings could not find standing room in the
large tabernacle; and other places also were
filled to overflowing on Sunday, October 6,
1907. Indeed, when all the halls available
near the Temple were filled, the streets were
crowded with people; therefore, it is safe to
say Zion is growing, but when we give the
true interpretation of Zion, “the pure in
heart,” will it apply then?
	The sermons delivered during the confer-
ence were of the very best, sound, practi-
cal advice, wise and judicious reasoning,
though plain and clear, easily comprehend-
ed by all who heard the inspired words of
the speakers. The sacred music was of the
highest order, uplifting the soul and mellow-
ing the feelings of the human heart. There
was really nothing to mar the harmony
that prevailed in the large and cruwded as-
semblies, and there was much food for
thought that will benefit all who heard the
words of eternal truth uttered by the in-
spired men of God who addressed the
people with such sublime eloquence as to
appeal to the higher nature of the vast mul-
titude of men and women.
	When one reflects upon the great men of
today who speak to us from time to time,

[Column 2]
and recall the great men of the past, whose
names are familiar to the Latter-day Saints,
we c[-]n but wonder that greater progress
spiritually has not been made. But it is
only natural that we should need while here
in this earthly probation, line upon line,
precept upon precept, here a little and there
a little. We are like children—we need re-
minding of our duties and obligations; and
though it be necessary sometimes to chas-
tise the saints, yet the Lord is even more
merciful than we could expect or even than
we ourselves often are to each other. Cer-
tainly the blessings poured out upon this
people (called Mormons) here in these
mountain vales are far beyond what could
have been anticipated by even the most
hopeful.
	Indeed, thinking of the crude primitive
times in the early days in this valley, and
coming upon such scenes of opulence and
splendor as are seen nowadays, is like listen-
ing to a fairy tale. But meantime are we
laying up treasures in heaven commensurate
with what we are participating in here? We
must all answer for ourselves, and let us
hope and believe many of this people who
have come here for the Gospel’s sake are.
The young generation, born here in the
midst of plenty, do not and cannot realize
what the early settlers endured nor the sac-
rifices they made. Many of these things
are too harrowing in detail to bear repeat-
ing, and if told they could never be por-
trayed as they actually transpired.
	It is not worth while to dwell upon the
past. The immense future that is looming
up before this people and world will occupy
the attention, call for all the activities of
the men and women who live, or who will
be living to take part in the great dispensa-
tion now being ushered in; and it behooves
all those who are partakers of the Gospel
“feast of fat things,” to be diligent “in
season and out of season,” and help in the
work established, that none may fail for lack
of understanding, or because the watchmen in
Zion have been sleeping at their post—and
the writer includes in the word watchmen
women as well as men, mothers as well as 
fathers, and fathers as well ss mothers. 
	Certainly, there never has been a time 
when every organization of the holy priest-
hood and every auxiliary organization in 
the Church, and under its auspices was in 
such good order and as well and harmon-
iously regulated as at present, and when 
every endeavor seems to be put forth to 
bring all quorums and organizations up to 
sueh a high standard of excellence. 
	All this is a matter of rejoicing, and yet 
there are more avenues opening every day, 
one might say, for the workers. All is not
done, nor perhaps begun, though many 
have finished their work here and gone for-
ward (according to the faith in which they 
so implicitly trust), and many new recruits 
have come and are still coming, and the 
hosts of Israel are still being added to and 
strengthened, and yet all are not converted, 
and we have more or less of vanity and ar-
rogance, and pride and frivolity among those 
who are growing up right here; but what 
more can be done will undoubtedly be by 
those who are vigilant and faithful in the 
interests of Zion and her people. 
	The Lord is mindful of his covenant 
people, and will fulfill all His promises con-
cerning Zion. “Beautiful for situation, the 
joy of the whole earth is mount Zion.
* * * God is known in her palaces for a 
refuge. For lo, the kings were assembled—
they passed by together. They saw it, and

[Column 3]
so they marveled, they were troubled and 
hasted away.” * * *
	“Walk about Zion, and go round about 
her, tell the towers thereof.”


