[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: M’DONALD PACE. | Author: Unknown]

			M’DONALD PACE.

A womanly woman, what more can we say?
	Has passed from the gloom to the beautiful
		day;
As such she wss greeted, and if women we be,
	As such we shall know her eternally.

Methinks I see the books opened,
And an angel the pages turns o’er,
Till he comes to her name when he pauses;
	“Sainted woman, thou’lt sorrow no more;

Thy life has been weighed ln the balance,
	Which tipped at the weight of pure gold,
By this thy name is recorded ‘most worthy,’
	Enter into the joys of thy Lord.”
				RUTH M. FOX.
				ROMANIA B PRATT.
				LUCY A. CLARK.
							Committee.
	Appointed at the meeting held January 31, 1900,

	The original intention of the Club was
carried out, those assigned on the pro-
gram preparing themselves with original
articles, poems or addresses.
	The history of the first decade of the
Club, written and read by its writer,
Lydia D. Alder, at its tenth annual meet-
ing, shows that the Club has had a bril-
liant career. The same history was later
published in full in the Woman’s Expo-
nent.
	Many of its first members are still forg-
ing ahead in the literary world. Some
are holding newspaper positions of note
today, both at home and abroad. Ada
M. Patterson, one of the latter, is on the
staff of the New York Journal and even
now keeps in touch with the Club. Jo-
sephine Spencer, a writer of great merit,
is on the staff of the Deseret News, while
others are regular writers for the home
magazines, as well as those of the east.
At the present time, Dr. R. B. Pratt, name
changed to Penrose, is abroad in the mis-
sionary field with her husband, Charles
W. Penrose, president of the European
mission. Letters from her are prized by
her friends. They show no decrease in
her interest of those so long associated
with her in the uplifting of women.
	Perhaps no club in the state or nation
has been represented like the U. W.
Press in the congresses of the world.
The great congress and fair held in Chi-
cago in 1893 had delegates from Utah,
both of the Club and other women’s or-
ganizations.
	At the Quinquennial Congress held in
London June, 1899, there were present
of the Club members, E. B. Wells, Susa
Y. Gates, Carrie S. Thomas, M. A. Caine,
and Lydia D. Alder, Seven other Utah
ladies were of the party, who were num-
bered among Queen Victoria’s guests
when she entertained the foreign ladies
of the congress at tea, July 7, 1899, at


[Column 1]
Windsor Castle, the closing function of
that ever-to-be-remembered congress.
	Before closing this review of the first
decade of the Club’s existence, perhaps
it would be interesting to mention some
of its annual gatherings, notable women
entertained, and of the work accom-
plished along the lines of journalism and
poetic writings. A book of the Club’s
minutes has been lost, but the annual
meeting of 1894 gives us the names of the
offiicers of that year; they were as fol-
lows: Honorary President, E. B. Wells;
President, E. R. Shipp, M. D.; Ruth M.
Fox, First Vice-president; Lydia D. Al-
der, Second Vice-president; Lizzie S.
Wilcox, Recording Secretary; Assistant,
Ella W. Hyde; Cor. Secretary, R. B.
Pratt; Assistant, Olea Shipp, Treasurer,
C. C. R. Wells; Auditor, Phebe C. Young;
Dr. E. B. Ferguson, Chairman Program
Committee.
	Anniversary day being also Halloween,
a special program was arranged. We
had pleasant and unique gatherings in
the past, but this year rather exceeded
aome of its predecessors.
	Either by costume or symbol, the mem-
bers represented as truthfully as might be
some of the well known authors or liter-
ary characters. As her name was called
she arose, and any present could guess
at the character represented.
	Literature, history, fable, all were there.
Some of the costumes worn were beauti-
ful, striking, or original as the wearer de-
sired.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp as Portia looked im-
posing in judicial robes; impressive her
speech “The quality of merey is not
strained” etc. Ruth M. Fox attired in
various gaudy colors represented sergeant
Buz fuz, in Dickens. Miss Gladys Wood-
mannsee was Hypatia in Roman cos-
tume, Ella W. Hyde looked graceful in-
fern leaves with fern fan as Fanny Fern.
Dr. R. B. Pratt dressed as a nun read from
Longfellow’s “Evangeline”, By a co-in-
cidence, Phebe C. Young and Lizzie S.
Wilcox, each representing Lucile, as a
nun, had even chosen the same selection
from that work to read. However, the
ladies changed their selection which set-
sled the matter. C. C. R. Wells, repre-
sented “The Woman in White” from
Wilkie Collin’s novel of that name, Mrs.
Minnie J. Snow as Mrs. Hemans sang
sweetly a song from that author’s work.
Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, represented by a
symbol, Mrs. Browning, and with great
dramatic ability recited “Mother and
Poet” from her works. Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, very befittingly represented Eliza
R. Snow, giving selections from that
author. Mrs. Melissa Wilson, with white
gown and flowing hair, represented Per-
dita from Shakespeare, reading “A Win-
ter’s Tale.” Mrs. E. J. Stevenson, with
a beautiful rose, represented “Rose in
Bloom.” Nellie C. Taylor, in her quaint
and simple Quaker garb, pleasingly remin-
ded us of Lucretia Mott. Miss Olea Shipp
appearing as the “Bohemian Girl” played
beautiful airs from that opera. Miss Ellis
Shipp recited Longfellow’s “Birds of

[Column 2]
Kenilworth,” in cream-colored gown, be-
decked with birds and feathers of brilliant
hue. Miss Pearl Russel as “Little Red
Riding Hood” rendered a charming little
solo from that opera. After the character
delineations, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read a
summary of the year’s work of the Club;
the progress made and improvement
sought.
	An ovation was tendered to Honorary
President E. B. Wells, and President Ellis
R. Shipp, by the Reapers and Press Club,
on Saturday evening March 16th, 1895,
on their return from the Council of Wo-
men, lately convened in Washington.
They met many people of “classical edu-
cation and opportunities for the highest
culture in the land. Our representatives
attended the banquet given on the 75ths
anniversary of the birth of Susan B. An-
thony and spoke of the cordiality extended
to the Utah women. Mrs. Wells also spoke
of her visit to the beautiful home of Mrs
May Wright Sewall. Many memories were
revived, some pleasant, some disappoint-
ing, especially that of dear Aunt Zina,
who had failed to meet with them in the
National Council.
	The Club Minutes of April 3, 1895, make
mention, that the city that day was full
of excitement on the suffrage question
and on motion of Mrs. Wells, the meeting
was resolved into a meeting to discuss
Woman Suffrage, the question then
under discussion at the Constitutional Con-
vention. The speakers were Mrs. E. B.
Wells, C. C. R. Wells, Lizzie Wilcox,
Mrs. McLachlin and Richard R. Shipp,
H. A. Badger, Mary A. Clark, E. J. Ste-
venson, R. M. Fox, Helena Madsen of
Gunnison, Annie T. Hyde, Lydia D.
Alder, Mrs. Kister, Ella W. Hyde, Misses
Claire Ferguson, Laura Hyde, Florence
Alder, Ellis Shipp, and Miss May of Nephi
Dr. Ferguson, and M. A. Caine. All
pledging themselves to work for the Wo-
man Suffrage plank in the State Con-
stitution.
	The Club anniversary, of 1897, held at
the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Snipp, when
the following was the personel of its of-
ficers.
	Honorary President E. B. Wells, Past
Presidents E. R. Shipp and Ruth M. Fox.
President elected Dr. Romania B. Pratt
Rebecca H. Doolan and Helen Vilate
Kimball; Vice President at Large, Isabel
Cameron Brown, Secretary Mary A. J.
Lambert, Amiee Schiller, Assistant Secre-
tary Lydia D. Alder Cor. Secretary, Hattie
B. Harker Treasurer.
	No more unique and perhaps even
beautiful gathering was ever held in this
most hospitable home, than the one of
this year. The present was forgotten in
the past, and those of other years thronged
this favorite spot. I quote from the mi-
nutes.
	The ladies who were most conspicuous,
were first Lydia D. Alder as the sweet
poet Lydia H. Sigourney in lace mantilla
and appropriate costume throughout.
None guessed her character, even when
she read “Napoleon’s Epitaph” from that

[Column 3]
gifted author. On request of the ladies,
Mrs. Alder walked through each room
that all might see her, before she reveal-
ed, the character she represented. Lucy
A. Clark as Hypatia, in flowing raiment,
artistically draped discussed philosophy
like an ancient sage. Dr. Orielle Curtis
as Portia, with cap and gown looked like
a Doctor of Laws, in very deed, when
quoting “The quality of mercy is not
strained,” she appeared like a real Greek
heroine. Rebecca H. Doolan, with soft
white hair, and fine lace cap read from
the poems of the gifted Eliza R. Snow.
Ruth M. Fox was simply charming in her
Quaker bonnet, and severely plain garb
carrying in her hand the scroll of the Dec-
laration of Independence and giving the
pathetic, yet eloquent description of the
scene when the brave little woman made
herself forever famous on that memorable
night of the fire at the capitol. Ella .W
Hyde, in Puritan dress read one of Louise
M. Alcott’s sunshiny poems in a delight-
fully characteristic way. Edith R. Lovsey
read Longfellow’s poem to the flowers, in
a most charming style, while bedecked
becomingly in fresh and beautiful flowers.
She made a pleasant picture to the eye
and her voice is full of sweetness. Helen
Vilate Kimball as Lady Elizabeth Mon-
tague, made quite an imposing appear-
ance, richly dressed, her tall stately figure
showed to good advantage as a woman
of rank and title. No one was able to
guess her identity, not even when she
read quotations, from this celebrated
author’s “Letters from the Dead.” Of
this lady who was born 1720 and died in
1800 the poet Cowper said:
	The birds put off their every hue
	To dress a room for Montague.
	She was even more popular than her
illustrious kinswoman, Lady Mary Wort-
ly Montague, whom it is said suffered by
the comparison of her letters with those
of Lady Elizabeth.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, in heavy, rust-
ling silk, her beautiful hair in natural
curls so exactly like the portrait of Felicia
Dorothea Hemans as we see her in books
with fan and reticule and scroll, making
a complete study of the character, read
one of the sweetest poems written by 
this favorite author. Miss Pearl Russell
as Lady Claire, in simple gown with a
rose in her hair, repeated a verse from
that charming poem of Tennyson’s, and
looked as timid and as sweet as the Lady
Claire herself possibly could had she
stepped out from the poem. Aimee
Schiller, handsomely dressed, represented
the “Scarlet Letter,” in a style new and
unique, and her reading was excellent, as
well as her chosen selection.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, with a beautiful
dress of black silk entraine, and flowing
sleeves of glistening white that might
have been wings of angels, so airy and
fluttering they were, carrying in each
hand a luxuriant bunch of chrysanthe-
mums, and accompanied by her two
daughters, Olea and Ellis, on either side
as maids of honor, made a splendid pic-
ture of the Queen of Sheba, and as she
gave the quotation held up first the bou-
quet of real flowers, and then the arti-
ficial, asking which was the true and
which the false, and adding the half had
not been told, overcome as it were with
the splendor and magnificence of Solo-
mon’s Court.
