[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of Semi-monthly Meeting held
in Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, June
30th, 1894. President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Meeting opened by singing, “Oh!
Jesus the Giver." Prayer by Counselor
Webb. Continued by singing, “Oh my
Father.” Sister Horne apologized for
coming in a little late, was unavoidably
detained, was more anxious than usual to-
day as it had been her desire to commemor-
ate the Fiftieth Anniversary of the
assassination of the Prophet Joseph. “It was
my intention to have the hymn, “A poor
way faring men of grief” etc, sung at the
meeting, it being the hymn the Prophet
asked to have sung on the day of his
Assassination; he asked to have it sung a
second time, but before his request could

[Column 2]
be complied with, the MOB were upon them:
I felt very desirous of holding Memorial
srevices on the fiftieth anniversary of the
Martyrdom of the Prophet, I called to see
Brother Angus M. Cannon about it; but
was unable to see him. I think it is a day
that should be remembered by all the Lat-
ter Day Saints.”
	By request, Sister Lydia Alder read the
hymn. Brothers Jenson and Binder,
having come in to lay before the meeting
an item of business, opportunity was given
them. Brother Jensen said, “We owe you
some explanation, coming in uninvited.
We are here in the interest of the aged.
We contemplate giving them an Excursion
to Saltair, have invited them to partake of
our hospitality, we expect several hundred
from out side Stakes. Probably a thousand
or more from this Stake. We hope the
Saints will be on hand as they have always
been before, hope the sisters from the 
country wards will come forward as usual.
Let us give Country visitors a Royal Wel-
come. We have been grandly entertained
by our Country Friends on previous oc-
casions. Let us manifest our appreciation;
making them as welcome and happy, it
will be a day long to be remembered. We
would like each Ward to prepare for at
least fifty more than their own aged. Fur-
ther instructions will be given through the
Bishops of the various wards. Addressing
Sister Horne, Brother Jenson said, “I
would now like to speak on some other sub-
ject. I want to say the Relief Society
keeps the most complete records of any
organization I know of in the Church. I
also find they take good care of the records.
There are exceptions of course. We have
in some instances, had to go to the Relief
Society for data concerning Bishops.”
Spoke a short time on the Martyrdom of
the Prophet, had recently visited Carthage.
“Its my opinion the Prophet was killed
while in the window it being so near the
ground, it seems to me impossible he could
have been hurt by falling so short a dis-
tance. The old Jail is now used as a dwell-
ing house, the room in which they were
shot, as a bed room. The old well has
been filled up, and a beautiful flower
garden takes its place. The lady in charge
is very pleasant, often giving a bunch of
flowers as a token of remembrance to those
who visit there. I am pleased to state we
have, at last, been able to obtain the old
records of David Whitmer, much of im-
portance to our people is contained therein.”
Made other interesting remarks.
	Sister Horne said, “I am pleased that
Brother Jenson has touched upon the sub-
ject he has. I well remember the first time
I shook hands with the Prophet I was
thrilled through as with an electric shock.
I could testify to the whole world I knew
he was a Prophet of God. Think of what
a mighty man he must have been, I have
heard him tell of his first vision. No other
mortal man ever accomplished as much as
he did. His life was threatened repeatedly,
yet was spared to complete his wonderful
work. Tongue cannot tell what joy I ex-
perience in being permitted to live in this
period of time.” Exhorted sisters to be
faithful in all things pertaining to the
Gospel, etc.
	Sister Sarah Kimball said, “I am afraid
I cannot control my feelings, I was present
at the meeting of the Relief Society, the
third meeting, I think, when we received
the first intimation of the Prophet going
home. He told the Sisters to cultivate love,


[Column 1]
peace and charity. Said the day is not far
distant when you will wish to hear my
voice, but will not. A sister at the close of
the meeting, said, ‘Brother Joseph, why
did you hurt our feelings?’ All present
felt a depression, the very elements
mourned. A dreadful gloom was felt for
days before the Martyrdom.” Made other
interesting remarks.
	Brother Binder spoke a short time giving
further instructions regarding the excursion
of the Old Folks; thought all should be in-
terested in aiding in so good a cause. “We
have had good times on previous occasions.
There is nothing should give us more
pleasure, than making the aged happy in
their declining years.”
	Sister Brown spoke a short time on the
same subject. “I knew when I went into
the waters of Baptism that Joseph was a
Prophet of God, have never had a doubt to
this day.” Related a dream, where she
was on the water, the ship on fire, of try-
ing to have faith to walk on the water.
“I desire to live so that my life will be ac-
ceptable in the sight of God,I ask the same
blessing on all my Sisters.”
	Sister Sarah Phelps related her experience
on the day of the assassination. Was
working in the garden, when something
like a panorama passed before her, could
see the prison and the soldiers, saw Brother
Hyrum fall, cried out ‘‘they have shot
him,” being asked “who” answered “I
dont know.” “Who did it look like.”
“I answered, ‘like the picture of Brother
Joseph,’ up to this time I had never seen
him.” Closed her remarks by exhorting
the Sisters to faithfulness.
	Another Sister spoke of the Prophet as a
mighty man of God. The Savior had his
blood spilled for our sins. Our loved
Prophet sealed his testimony with his blood.
I feel to say “God Bless the aged, they
have borne much for the Gospel, I take 
great comfort in reading the book called,
“Women of Mormondom.” Think of the
severe trials they have passed through. I
have trials but I praise God continually for
his goodness, in giving me a knowlege
that this is the Church and Kingdom of
God.”
	Sister Alder, "I have felt the Martyrdom
more than ever before. I feel that all fain
would have kept the Prophet with us but
he could not be spared to us. I feel that I
know him, although I never saw him, it is
for us to be faithful, and testify of the
Savior, and of Joseph as a Prophet; and
they will surely testify to the Lord of us.
The question will be asked ‘What work
have you done?’ I have too much to live
for to neglect my duties here. We know
our loved ones who are gone, are safe. We
must prepare to meet them.”
	Sang “Hail! to the Prophet” etc.
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the pleasant
time the Temple workers had enjoyed at
Brigham City. “The instructions we re-
ceived were treasures, Brother Woodruff
spoke on the sign of the times. Testified
that the Angel had gone forth to pour out
the vial of his wrath on the nations of the
earth. Let us be true Saints, doing to
others as we would be done by, having
charity, love and good will for all.”
	Sister M E. Kimball gave a brief sketch
of her experience with the Saints in
Nauvoo, of her admiration of the life of the
prophet. The many trials she had passed
through for the Gospel, with it all there had
never arisen a doubt in her mind in regard
to the truth of this Latter-day work.

[Column 2]
President Horne made some closing re-
marks, spoke of the necessity of living
near the Lord, of being faithful to all duties
particularly to mothers to impress upon the
minds of their children the principles of the
Gospel. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
	Sang, “Weep! Weep! not for me,”
benediction by Brother Andrew Jenson.

	VITLAB YOUNG, Sec.


