The Passover and the Lord's Supper Mary Foster Gibbs
======================================================================

Passover and the Lord's Supper Mary Foster Gibbs. The release of Jerusalem and Palestine from the Gentile rule of the Turk has turned the mind and thoughts of the Latter-day Saints to the many predictions and hopes of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his associates as well to the prophecies of the ancient Hebrew seers. Particularly are our thoughts turned back to the historic visit of Apostle Orson Hyde, in 1841, to Jerusalem and the dedicatory prayer which he voiced on the Mount of Olives. We give in the following pages this prayer as it was printed many years ago under his own direction. It should be read and preserved by the Latter-day Saints as marking an epoch in the history of this people and the history of the world itself. It is an item of surpassing interest to know that when Madam Lydia Mountford was here lecturing, twenty-five years ago, her first words were of joy and gratitude that she could at last mingle with the people about whom she had heard her father speak many times. She stated that her father was a Russian refugee banished from his native ELDER ORSON HYDE. country because he taught a religion which he and eleven others called an Ephraimitic religion, and when so banished he chose to go to Jerusalem 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. where our Savior had lived, preached and been crucified. There he kept open house for the rare European travelers who visited that ancient city in those early days, and there, too, he entertained Elder Orson Hyde and heard his story about the young man with the golden Bible, and often spoke of it to his children as a marvelous religious possibility. Poor Madam Mountford was a baptized member of this Church, but she could not quite bring her will and purposes to accept of the common sacrificial lot which accompanies the convert in his entrance publicly into the fold of Christ. She died in Florida in February, two years ago, and, therefore, did not live to know of the delivery of her beloved Jerusalem from the oppressive Turk who had ruled that land so long. President Lund, on his visit to Jerusalem, received many courtesies at the hands of Madam Mountford, and declared on his return that she was a person of the greatest importance and distinction in her native land. The Patriarch of Jerusalem, who received President Lund, called her "the daughter of Jerusalem." No doubt her spirit rejoices in the release of her native land and in the near approach of the fulfillment of the prophecies. It is an interesting and unique circumstance that a grandnephew of Apostle Orson Hyde was in General Allenby's company when the English entered Jerusalem and took possession of the city. His name is Cecil Reginald Talbot Joyce, and he is the son of Major Thomas Talbot Joyce and Mrs. Genevieve Price Joyce. She was the niece of Apostle Orson Hyde, whose wife, Mary Ann Price was the sister of the late Bishop William Price of Goshen, Utah. Cecil Joyce, was a lieutenant in the British army when the war broke out, and after three and a half years service in France he was transferred to Egypt. He was present at the taking of Jerusalem and made the march over the awful Syrian desert from that city to Damascus, being attached to Allenby's cavalry. He entered Damascus with General Allenby's forces. Under date of October 2, 1918, he wrote his mother as follows: "My darling Mother: Have only time to send a few lines. The most remarkable, sweeping, swift advance of our cavalry, the world has ever known, landed us in Damascus, a glorious city, a paradise, especially to us after trekking over miles of lava desert. The scenes we have passed through baffle description; wild Arab tribes, King Hedjas' troops, fleeing Turks, sulky Germans; thirst, hunger, cold and heat; and to cap it all an earthquake nearly 'did us in' while we were smashing the Ottoman Empire in Palestine and Syria. So you will quite understand, dearest THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 191 © Underwood & Underwood, New York THE BRITISH FORCE BEFORE THE HOLY SEPULCHRE. mother, that I have had a thrilling time and wonderful adventures." * * * He states that the Turkish officers, whipped to their knees, gave their gold watches and chains to the English Tommies for their water bottles filled with muddy water. King Hedjas and his Arab troops flooded Damascus with English gold. There were mad, joyous celebrations. The liberated people fell on their knees and showered men and officers with roses, wreaths and kisses. Dancing went on day and night. The hill people all came to see the celebrations. The bazaars were gay and the whole place was paved with English gold. The Union Jack and the French tricolor floated from every window; camels and caravans from the desert, on their way to Jerusalem, camped there, every one wearing the English and French flags, the emblems of their emancipation from the Turks, slavery and cruelty. It was a thrilling sight, picturesque and wonderful. THE PRAYER OF ORSON HYDE, APOSTLE IN THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS, ON THE MOUNT OF OLIVES. On Sunday morning, October 24th, 1841, a good while before day, I arose from sleep, and went out of the city (Jerusalem) as soon as the gates were opened, crossed the brook Cedron, and went upon the Mount of Olives, and there in solemn silence, with pen, ink, and paper, just as I saw in the vision, offered up the following prayer to him who lives forever and ever: "O Thou! who art from everlasting to everlasting, eternally and unchangeably the same, even the God who rules in the heavens above, and controls the destinies of men on the earth, wilt Thou not condescend, through thine infinite goodness and royal favor, to listen to the prayer of Thy servant which he this day offers up unto Thee in the name of Thy holy child Jesus, upon this land, where the Sun of Righteousness set in blood, and thine Anointed One expired. "Be pleased, O Lord, to forgive all the follies, weaknesses, vanities, and sins of Thy servant, and strengthen him to resist all future temptations. Give him prudence and discernment that he may avoid the evil, and a heart to choose the good; give him fortitude to bear up under trying and adverse circumstances, and grace to endure all things for Thy name's sake, until the end shall come, when all the Saints shall rest in peace. "Now, O Lord! Thy servant has been obedient to the heavenly vision which Thou gavest him in his native land; and under the shadow of Thine outstretched arm, he has safely arrived in this place to dedicate and consecrate this land unto Thee, for the gathering together of Judah's scattered remnants, according to the predictions of the holy prophets — for the building up of Jerusalem again after it has been trodden down by the Gentiles so long, and for rearing a temple in honor of Thy name. Everlasting thanks be ascribed unto Thee. O Father, Lord of heaven and THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 193 earth, that Thou hast preserved Thy servant from the dangers of the seas, and from the plague and pestilence which have caused the land to mourn. The violence of man has also been restrained, and Thy providential care by night and by day has been exercised over Thine unworthy servant. Accept therefore, O Lord, the tribute of a grateful heart for all past favors, and be pleased to continue Thy kindness and mercy towards a needy worm of the dust. "O Thou, Who didst covenant with Abraham, Thy friend, and Who didst renew that covenant with Isaac, and confirm the same with Jacob with an oath, that Thou wouldst not only give them this land for an everlasting inheritance, but that Thou wouldst also remember their seed forever. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob have long since closed their eyes in death, and made the grave their resting place. Their children are scattered and dispersed abroad among the nations of the Gentiles like sheep that have no shepherd, and are still looking forward to the fulfillment of those promises which Thou didst make concerning them; and even this land, which once poured forth nature's richest bounty, and flowed, as it were, with milk and honey, has, to a certain extent, been smitten with barrenness and sterility since it drank from murderous hands the blood of Him who never sinned. "Grant, therefore, O Lord, in the name of Thy well-beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to remove the barrenness and sterility of this land, and let springs of living water break forth to water its thirsty soil. Let the vine and the olive produce in their strength, and the fig-tree bloom and flourish. Let the land become abundantly fruitful when possessed by its rightful heirs; let it again flow with plenty to feed the returning prodigals who come home with a spirit of grace and supplication; upon it let the clouds distil virtue and richness, and let the fields smile with plenty. Let the flocks and the herds greatly increase and multiply upon the mountains and the hills; and let Thy great kindness conquer and subdue the unbelief of Thy people. Do Thou take from them their stony heart, and give them a heart of flesh; and may the Sun of Thy favor dispel the cold mists of darkness which have beclouded their atmosphere. Incline them to gather in upon this land according to Thy word. Let them come like clouds and like doves to their windows. Let the large ships of the nations bring them from the distant isles; and let kings become their nursing fathers, and queens with motherly fondness wipe the tear of sorrow from their eye. "Thou, O Lord, did once move upon the heart of Cyrus to show favor unto Jerusalem and her children. Do Thou now also be pleased to inspire the hearts of kings and the powers of the earth to look with a friendly eye towards this place, and with a 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. desire to see Thy righteous purposes executed in relation thereto. Let them know that it is Thy good pleasure to restore the Kingdom unto Israel — raise up Jerusalem as its capital, and constitute her people as a distinct nation and government, with David Thy servant, even a descendant from the loins of ancient David to be their king. "Let that nation or that people who shall take an active part in behalf of Abraham's children, and in the raising up of Jerusalem, find favor in Thy sight. Let not their enemies prevail against them, neither let pestilence or famine overcome them, but let the glory of Israel overshadow them, and the power of the Highest protect them; while that nation or kingdom that will not serve Thee in this glorious work must perish, according to Thy word — 'Yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted.' "Though Thy servant is now far from his home, and from the land bedewed with his earliest tear, yet he remembers, O Lord, his friends who are there, and family, whom for Thy sake he has left. Though poverty and privation be our earthly lot, yet, oh! do Thou richly endow us with an inheritance where moth and rust do not corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal. "The hands that have fed, clothed, or shown favor unto the family of Thy servant in his absence, or that shall hereafter do so, let them not lose their reward, but let a special blessing rest upon them, and in Thy kingdom let them have an inheritance when Thou shalt come to be glorified in this society. "Do Thou also look with favor upon all those through whose liberality I have been enabled to come to this land; and in the day when Thou shalt reward all people according to their works, let these also not be past by or forgotten, but in time let them be in readiness to enjoy the glory of those mansions which Jesus has gone to prepare. Particularly do Thou bless the stranger in Philadelphia, whom I never saw, but who sent me gold, with a request that I should pray for him in Jerusalem. Now, O Lord, let blessings come upon him from an unexpected quarter, and let his basket be filled, and his storehouse abound with plenty, and let not the good things of the earth be his only portion, but let him be found among those to whom it shall be said, 'Thou hast been faithful over a few things, and I will make thee ruler over many.' "O my Father in heaven! I now ask Thee in the name of Jesus to remember Zion, with all her Stakes, and with all her assemblies. She has been grievously afflicted and smitten; she has mourned; she has wept; her enemies have triumphed, and have said, 'Ah, where is thy God?' Her Priests and Prophets have groaned in chains and fetters within the gloomy walls of prisons, THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 195 while many were slain, and now sleep in the arms of death. How long, O Lord, shall iniquity triumph, and sin go unpunished? "Do Thou arise in the majesty of Thy strength, and make bare Thine arm in behalf of Thy people. Redress their wrongs, and turn their sorrow into joy. Pour the spirit of light and knowledge, grace and wisdom, into the hearts of her Prophets, and clothe her Priests with salvation. Let light and knowledge march forth through the empires of darkness, and may the honest in heart flow to their standard, and join in the march to go forth to meet the Bridegroom. "Let a peculiar blessing rest upon the Presidency of Thy Church, for at them are the arrows of the enemy directed. Be Thou to them a sun and shield, their strong tower and hiding place; and in time of distress or danger be Thou near to deliver. Also the quorum of the Twelve, do Thou be pleased to stand by, for Thou knowest the obstacles which they have to encounter, the temptations to which they are exposed, and the privations which they must suffer. Give us (the Twelve), therefore, strength according to our day, and help us to bear a faithful testimony of Jesus and his Gospel, and to finish with fidelity and honor the work which Thou hast given us to do, and then give us a place in Thy glorious kingdom. And let this blessing rest upon every faithful officer and member in Thy Church. And all the glory and honor will we ascribe unto God and the Lamb for ever and ever. Amen." On the top of Mount Olives I erected a pile of stones as a witness according to the ancient custom. On what was anciently called Mount Moriah, where the temple stood, I erected another, and used the rod according to the prediction on my head. Let us add here an extract from a letter of Elder Orson Hyde written at "Trieste, January 1st and 18th, 1842," see Millennial Star, Vol. II, pages 166-169. "highly interesting from JERUSALEM. "We have lately received two lengthy and highly interesting communications from Elder Orson Hyde, dated at Trieste, January 1st, 18th, containing a sketch of his voyage and travels in the East, his visit to Jerusalem, a description of ancient Zion, the pool of Siloam, and many other places famous in holy writ, with several illustrations of the manners and customs of the East, as applicable to Scripture texts, and several conversations held between himself and some of the Jews, missionaries, etc., in Jerusalem, together with the masterly description of a terrible tempest and thunder storm at sea, with a variety of miscellaneous reflections and remarks, all written in an easy, elegant, and 196 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. masterly style, partaking of the eloquent and sublime, and breathing a tone of that deep feeling, tenderness and affection so characteristic of his mission and the spirit of his holy and sacred office. "Elder Hyde has by the grace of God been the first proclaimer of the fullness of the Gospel both on the continent of Europe and in far off Asia, among the nations of the East. In Germany, Turkey (Constantinople), Egypt, and Jerusalem. He has reared as it were the ensign of the latter-day glory, and sounded the trump of truth, calling upon the people of those regions to awake from their thousand years' slumber, and to make ready for their returning Lord. "In his travels he has suffered much, and has been exposed to toils and dangers, to hunger, pestilence and war. He has been in perils by land and sea, in perils among robbers, in perils among heathens, Turks, Arabs, and Egyptians; but out of all these things the Lord hath delivered him, and hath restored him in safety to the shores of Europe, were he is tarrying for a little season, for the purpose of publishing the Truth in the German language, having already published it in French and English in the various countries of the East, and we humbly trust that his labors will be a lasting blessing to Jew and Gentile. "We publish the following extract of his communication, and we shall soon issue the whole from the press in pamphlet form. It will, no doubt, meet with a ready sale; and we purpose devoting the profits to his benefit, to assist him in his mission. " 'Mrs. Whiting told me that there had been four Jewish people in Jerusalem converted and baptized by the English minister, and four only; and that a part of the ground for an English church had been purchased there. It was by political power and influence that the Jewish nation was broken down, and her subjects dispersed abroad; and I will hazard the opinion, that by political power and influence they will be gathered and built up; and further, that England is destined in the wisdom and economy of heaven to stretch forth the arm of political power, and advance in the front ranks of this glorious enterprise. The Lord once raised up a Cyrus to restore the Jews, but that was not evidence that He owned the religion of the Persians. This opinion I submit, however, to your superior wisdom to correct if you shall find it wrong. " 'There is an increasing anxiety in Europe for the restoration of that people (the Jews) ; and this anxiety is not confined to the pale of any religious community, but it has found its way to the courts of kings. Special ambassadors have been sent, and consuls and consular agents have been appointed. The rigorous 198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. policy which has hitherto characterized the course of other nations towards them now begins to be softened by the oil of friendship, and modified by the balm of humanity. The sufferings and privations under which they have groaned for so many centuries have at length touched the main-springs of Gentile power and sympathy; and may the God of their fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, fan the flame by celestial breezes, until Israel's banner, sanctified by a Savior's blood, shall float on the walls of old Jerusalem, and the mountains and valleys of Judea reverberate with their songs of praise and thanksgiving to the Lamb that was slain. 'The imperial consul of Austria, at Galatz near the mouth of the Danube, to whom I had a letter of introduction from his cousin in Vienna, told me that in consequence of so many of their Jewish subjects being inclined, of late, to remove to Syria and Palestine, his government had established a general consul at Beyroot for their protection. There are many Jews who care nothing about Jerusalem, and have no regard for God. Their money is the god they worship, yet there are many of the most pious and devout among them who look towards Jerusalem as the tender and affectionate mother looks upon the home where she left her lovely little babe." ' (History of the Church, Vol. IV, pages 495-6, 8, 9.) When that temple is built in Jerusalem, we have often wondered if the Jews now living would be able to perform the baptisms for their dead; they could not unless records of their ancestors had been kept. When the Temple was destroyed in 70 A. D., by Titus it has been thought the wonderful Jewish pedigrees kept for centuries were destroyed at the same time. Considerable effort has been made to learn something concerning Jewish pedigrees in modern times. A new and interesting point concerning the genealogy kept by the modern Jews is from a letter received from Mr. L. F. Strauss of Boston, Massachusetts, from which we quote the following: "Orthodox Jews— which division still includes three-fourths of the Jewish people as a whole, although only one-tenth of the Jewish people in the United States — keep a record of their genealogy. Every religious Jew knows the tribe to which he belongs. I, for example, on my mother's side, am a Levite — a descendant of Aaron; on my father's side, I sprang from the tribe of Judah. "Any Jew with a name of Kahn, Cohen, Cohn, is a descendant of Aaron. Any Jew with the name of Levi is a Levite; but not all the descendants of Aaron have the name of Kahn or Cohen, nor do all Levites today have the name of Levi. "Any religious Jew necessarily knows his tribe, for on the THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 199 Sabbath, during the reading of the law, the members of the congregation are called up in the order of the tribe to which they belong. Priests and Levites have special functions in Jewish ritual." How glorious will be the day when "the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." Doc. and Cov. Sec. 13. THE PASSOVER AND THE SIXTH DAY OF APRIL, 1830, 1836 AND 1917. There are so many remarkable events connected with the Passover season which occurs always in the early spring, that attention is here called to some of them with the hope that the spiritual significance connected therewith may sink deep into the hearts of the readers of the Magazine. The Passover was instituted by Moses; in Egypt at the last of the plagues and that fateful night he instructed the Hebrew people to kill a white lamb which was to be the firstling of the flock, a male and without spot or blemish; it was to be killed and roasted whole in the oven, a pomegranate wooden cross holding it during the roasting process. It was to be eaten by the family, who were to be dressed ready for flight, and it must be accompanied with bitter herbs and unleavened bread. The blood of this lamb was to be sprinkled, by each householder or patriarch of each family, on the lintels of the door so that the angel of death, in passing over Egypt to slay the first born male child in every family, would see the sprinkled blood of the sacrificial lamb and pass over that household. At midnight, immediately after the conclusion of the Passover supper, the Hebrews took their flight into the wilderness, released by Pharaoh. This Passover service was perpetuated through divine law, and exact details are given in Exodus 12; 13:1-10; Leviticus 23: 4-8; Numbers 9:1-14, and Deuteronomy 16:1-8. All down the centuries the Jews observed this great, early spring festival with pomp and ceremony. Every Jewish family was to be represented by practically all of its members in the city of Jerusalem, during the week of this greatest of all the feasts and fasts enjoined upon the covenant people of the Lord. Modification necessarily crept in: for instance, a whole lamb was sometimes too large for one family and other related families might join together and eat of the supper. Also, since the destruction of Jerusalem the orthodox Jews who still religiously observe the festival use a shoulder roast of lamb. Women were not legally obliged to go up to Jerusalem, yet we know from Scripture, and from the rules laid down by Jewish authorities, that such was 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. a common practice. The Passover week was a joyous time for all Israel. From all parts of the land and from foreign countries the festive pilgrims went up in bands, singing their pilgrim psalms, and bringing with them burnt and peace-offerings, according as the Lord had blessed them; for none might appear empty before Him. How large the number of worshipers was, may be gathered from Josephus, who records that, when Cestius requested the high-priest to make a census, in order to convince Nero of the importance of Jerusalem and of the Jewish nation, the number of lambs slain was found to be 256,500, which, at the lowest computation of ten persons of every sacrificial lamb, would give a population of 2,700,200 persons, while on an earlier occasion, (A. D. 65) he computes the number present at not fewer than three millions. Of course, many of these pilgrims must have camped outside the walls. Those who lodged within the walls © Underwood & Underwood, New York THE MARKET PLACE IN FRONT OF THE CHURCH OF THE NATIVITY. THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 201 were gratuitously accommodated, and in return left to their hosts the skins of the Passover lambs and the vessels which they had used in their sacred services. This service was observed, then, for hundreds of years, few, if any of those who partook of it realizing that every part and portion of it was directly symbolic of the Master's great atoning sacrifice. Another important feature of the Passover supper was the unleavened bread which must form a principal portion of the feast. So particular did this matter become in later centuries that the head of the household made a ceremony of searching the house to the remotest corner for any bit of leaven that might have been left, or for any bit of bread that contained leaven. Leaven, it must be remembered, is yeast, and the yeast plant of the orientals was first scraped from the skin of the grapes, and the culture made in something the same manner that it is today; but the Jewish women kept a little piece of the dough from baking day to baking day and raised the bread with this piece of leavened dough put into the middle of the new batch of flour, kneading it in; this was rather a common custom among the old New England families. Because of this, the bread was always a little bit sour; the same custom is followed in Northern Europe, and accounts for the little acid flavor in much of the black bread there found. The yeast plant is the lowest form of life and is, therefore, significant in that it was forbidden to be used in this symbolic feast which typifies the crucifixion of the Savior. The unleavened cakes, which were the only bread used during the feast, might be made of either wheat, barley, oats or rye, but they must be prepared and baked quickly before fermentation had begun. They were to be mixed with water and not with fruit liquor. The ceremony in the temple at the Paschal season was interesting. In the lower courts they had many shambles where cattle and doves were kept. It was against the very profitable traffic in all such offerings carried on by the priests in the temple courts that the Lord Jesus cried out, only a few days before his death, when he overthrew the table and the money changers, much to the astonishment and indignation of the priests who had always thus made a generous if irregular fortune. (Matt. 21:12, 13; John 2:13-18.) Before the evening incense was burned or the lamps were trimmed, the general Paschal sacrifice had to be offered in the temple courts, for the priests themselves had to offer this sacrifice as well as all the Jewish households. The householders who took the lambs to the Temple to be slain were divided into companies of thirty and as many as the great courts could hold at a time 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. crowded into the lower courts, and immediately the massive gates were closed behind them. The priests sounded a three-fold blast on their silver trumpets just as the Passover lambs were slain. In the two upper courts stood the priests in two rows, one row holding each a golden bowl and the other row a silver bowl. Into these golden bowls the blood of the Paschal lambs, was quickly poured, then handed to the next priest with the silver bowl; and so the bowls with the blood were passed up to the priests at the altar who jerked the contents of each cup in one jet at the base of the altar. All this time a solemn hymn of praise was sung, the Levites leading and the people responding in much the same way as the ritual services are now rendered in the Catholic and Episcopalian churches. Every first line of the Psalm was repeated by the people, while to each of the others they responded by a "Hallelujah," or "Praise ye the Lord." Following this service in the temple, the head of each household retired with his lamb to his own home to prepare the feast for his family, and then other companies were admitted into the temple enclosure, as long as the evening hours would permit. During the eating of the Passover feast another interesting ceremony occurred. It will be remembered that the Jews, indeed no ancient people, had printed books nor had they access to great masses of records and books such as we have today. The only way to carry on the religious ceremonies from generation to generation, to teach history and to impress principles upon the minds of growing youth was through oral tradition. Moses arranged, therefore, that after the first portion of the feast had been partaken of, the oldest or the youngest son shall arise and ask these questions: "Why is this night distinguished from all other nights? For on all other nights we eat leavened or unleavened bread, but on this night only unleavened bread? On all other nights we eat any kind of herbs, but on this night only bitter herbs? On all other nights we eat meat roasted, stewed, or boiled, but on this night only roasted? On all other nights we dip (the herbs) only once, but on this night twice?" "Then the father instructs his child according to the capacity of his knowledge, beginning with our disgrace and ending with our glory, and expounding to him from, 'A Syrian, ready to perish, was my father,' till he has explained all through, to the end of the whole section" (Deut. 26:5-11). In other words, the head of the house was to relate the whole national history, commencing with Terah, Abraham's father, and telling of his idolatry, and continuing, in due order, the story of Israel up to their deliverance from Egypt and the giving of the Law; and the more fully he explained it all, the better. THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 203 The Passover feast began usually about nine o'clock in the evening and continued till midnight or after. "Jewish writers state that, the family or families having performed the required purifications, John 11:55, and being assembled at the table, the master of the feast took a cup of wine mixed with water and blessed God for the fruit of the vine, of which all then drank. After a washing of hands the passover was brought in, with unleavened cakes, bitter herbs, and a vinegar or fruit sauce, into which morsels of the food were to be dipped, Matt. 26:23; John 13:26. The father then blessed God for the fruits of the earth, and made the prescribed explanations, Exod. 12:26, 27. After a second cup and washing of hands, an unleavened cake was broken and distributed, and a blessing was pronounced upon the Giver of bread. When all had eaten of the passover a third cup, of thanksgiving for deliverance from Egypt and the gift of the law, was blessed and partaken of, Matt. 26:27; 1 Cor. 10:16; it was called 'the cup of blessing.' The repast was usually closed by a fourth cup and psalms of praise; Psalms 115-118 were sung here and Psalms 113 and 114 earlier in the feast. The whole week of the feast was one of rejoicing. (Deut. 27:17. Dictionary of the Holy Bible.) The fact should be noted that the thin, sour wine which was used in this and other feasts was at certain seasons of the year the only safe liquid to drink. Water was kept in cisterns there, and sometimes under the tropic sun, it became putrid and unfit for drinking purposes. Hence it was often mixed with the weak, acid native wines. Bear in mind the fact that although the bitter herbs typify their sorrow in Egypt, and the unleavened bread the lack of leaven in the Jewish households, as they were leaving for their flight from Pharaoh; while the blood of the sacrificial lamb, sprinkled upon the lintels and door-posts of the Jewish households, signified the covenanted homes where the first born was to be spared, all of these symbols were to receive a new meaning during the Last Supper of our Lord in Jerusalem. When our Lord partook of this Passover, he tried to convince his disciples of the sublime significance of the whole symbolic service. He was the Paschal Lamb, the first male of his Father's flock, without spot or blemish, and he was to die upon the cross. His blood was the sacrificial blood which should appear over the threshold of every householder that acknowledged him and his divine mission. As he took the bread and passed it he said, "Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave to them, saying, Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins" (Matt. 26:26-28). 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. But, alas, the disciples could not see the significance which he endeavored to give to this solemn Last Supper. His betrayal followed immediately upon that supper, and he was hung upon the cross for the period prophesied of. Taken down on the Sabbath day and resurrected on the first day of the week, which we now observe as the Sabbath.day, his disciples for generations ate the Lord's Supper in memory of him. Sometimes they were obliged to hold their services in the catacombs at Rome and in the caves and dens of the earth; and at last apostasy and corruption caused the last principle of light to fade away, and "the bride went into the wilderness," and the great apostasy spoken of by John took place. The radical modification made by the Catholic church, which still administers the sacrament, and which puts forth the superstitious theory that through a miracle the unleavened wafer is changed into the very flesh of the Savior and the wine becomes his very blood — which is eaten and drunk therefore by the priests and the few communicants — appals the mind of the outsider and fulfils the prophecy of John concerning the general apostasy and the changing of the ordinances. This doctrine of the Catholic church is called transubstantiation. When the Lord again revealed himself to his children in modern times, he instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith that leavened bread, strangely symbolic of His own resurrected body with life therein, might be used in the modern sacrament; and that water was also permitted in place of wine. Today we celebrate, every Sabbath day, the Lord's Supper in simplicity and in remembrance of his body and spilt blood. The significance attaching to the Paschal season belongs, of necessity, to this subject and we desire here to present some of these points to our readers. THE PASCHAL WEEK AND THE SIXTH DAY OF APRIL, 1830 AND 1917, AND THE THIRD DAY OF APRIL, 1836. Great and momentous events have occurred on this earth during the few days which are celebrated by the Jews as their Paschal week. The death and resurrection of our Savior occurred during this period, as is amply indicated in the records preserved in the New Testament. He was the great sacrificial Lamb, and at the very hour when he stood before Pontius Pilate, in the gateway of the tower of Antonio overlooking the temple courts, the priests were offering up the sacrificial lamb, on the second day of the Paschal week. The modern Christians have, for centuries, celebrated this Passover week, although there has been considerable dispute concerning the fixing of the date. This period is called the Easter THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 205 season, and Easter Sunday moves up and down our own calendar of days between about March 21 and April 21, exactly as.does the Passover day. The Christians follow the Jewish calendar in fixing their Easter time. When was the Savior born? What has been and is the exact day of the Passover? The Jewish calendar is and has been so uncertain that the most abstruce Jewish scholar is unable to fix definitely on the exact time of this Paschal service. The Jewish year is governed by the moon; while if the Paschal night should occur on Sunday they set it back. The Jews still maintain the lunar year calendar in their religious festivals. Because of this fact there is published, from time to time, various descriptions of the calendar. We find this in the Jezvish Encyclopedia: Copyright, Underwood & Underwood, New York A PORTION OF THE OLD WALL AROUND JERUSALEM. 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "The conviction reached by Hippolytus is that Jesus's life from conception, or annunciation, was precisely thirty-three years and that both events occurred March 25th. * * * "The uncertainty of all the data discredits the computation. There is no historical evidence that our Lord's birthday was celebrated during the apostolic or early post-apostolic times. The uncertainty that existed at the beginningof the third century in the minds of Hippolytus and others — Hippolytus earlier favored Jan. 2, Clement of Alexandria (Strom., i. 21) 'the 25th day of Pachon' (May 20), while others, according to Clement, fixed tipon April 18 or 19 and March 28 — proves that no Christmas festival had been established much before the middle of the century." It may be asserted with considerable degree of assurance, that the birth of the Savior occurred during the Paschal week while the organization of the Church in modern times also occurred on that day. Latter-day Saints have the revelation of the Lord Jesus Christ on this matter as follows: (Revelation on Church government, given through Joseph the Prophet, in April, 1830. Doc. & Cov. 20.) 1. "The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight-hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April." Recognizing the fact that the Jewish calendar moved the Passover week back and forth on our own calendar dates, the question is pertinent at once: When did the 6th day of April, 1830, occur? Was it near the Passover day according to the reckoning of the Jews? The writer has communicated with a number of Jewish scholars concerning this matter, and a book called A Jewish Calendar, and published in London, in 1838, was,secured from a London bookseller; but, alas, the calendar began with 1838. Further correspondence ensued, and at last our friendly correspondent, Mr. George Harding, 64 Great Russell Street, London, W. C. 1, England, secured the two dates, for which we had especially written, from Rabbi Gerald Friedlander, 30 London Square, W. C. 1, London, England. Strange to say, the Passover night began, in 1830, Wednesday evening, April 7; so that on April 6, 1830, the Jews everywhere had,secured their Paschal lamb and were ready to offer up the same on the next day. The Church was organized upon the day, one thousand eight hundred and thirty years before the Savior himself was THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 207 born into the world, while his crucifixion occurred 33 years after, on the second day of the Paschal week. Other less striking yet marvelous events occurred upon this Paschal day and time. Abraham offered up Isaac on that day; at that season also Abraham entertained the angels; Sodom was destroyed on the second day of the Paschal week, and Lot escaped. On that date the walls of Jericho fell before the Lord. It was then that the "cake of barley bread," seen in a dream, led to the destruction of Midian's hosts on the second day of the "feast of unleavened bread." It was during this Passover week that "the captains of Sennacherib and the King of Assyria, who tarried at Nob, were overtaken by the hand of God. At the Paschal time also the mysterious handwriting appeared on the wall to declare Babylon's doom, and again at the Passover, Esther and the Jews fasted, "and wicked Haman perished." The Jews, according to Edersheim, believed that "also in the last days it would be the Paschal night when the final, judgments should come upon 'Edom,' and the glorious deliverance of Israel take place." When you remember that Edom is the Turkish nation descended from Esau, the significance of this prophecy is understood; moreover, we all vividly recall the fact that 'the United States entered the terrible war on April 6, 1917, and that particular Friday, fell on the day of the Paschal ceremony. Among the most remarkable circumstances, however, connected with this Paschal week we note the following related by Edersheim: "To this day, in every Jewish home, at a certain part of the Paschal service — just after the 'third cup,' or the 'cup of blessing,' has been drunk — the door is opened to admit Elijah the prophet as forerunner of the Messiah, while appropriate passages are at the same time read which foretell the destruction of all heathen nations. Psa. 79:6; 69:25; Lament 3:66. It is a remarkable coincidence that, in instituting his own Supper, the Lord Jesus connected the symbol, not of judgment, but of his dying love, with this 'third cup.' But, in general, it may be interesting to know that no other service contains within the same space the like ardent aspirations after a return to Jerusalem and the rebuilding of the Temple, nor so many allusions to the Messianic hope, as the liturgy for the night of the Passover now^ in use among the Jews." Let us see what significance attaches to the symbolic opening of the door for the entrance of Elijah in the Jewish households of the present age. It will be remembered that there is twenty-four hours' diflference in time encircling the globe, but let us ask the question: Has the long-expected and eagerly watchedfor Elijah visited the earth? Has he come to prepare the way for the great and dreadful day of the Lord? If so, where did he 208 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Copyright, Underwood & Underwood, New York THE DAMASCUS GATE IN THE NORTH WALL OF JERUSALEM. THE PASSOVER AND THE LORD'S SUPPER. 209 come, whom did he visit, and was his visit timed to the symbolic openingof the door by the Jews in every land at their Paschal season? Both the questions and the answers thereto constitute one of the most thrilling episodes of the writer's experience. " We answer: Yes, the Prophet Elijah came! He came to the Prophet Joseph Smith in a Temple of the Lord, built to the name of Jesus Christ, in Kirtland, Ohio. He came on the 3rd day of April, 1836, which day was the Christian Sabbath. The question now arises: When did the Paschal week begin in 1836? The British Rabbi, Gerald Friedlander, gives us the anwser: "The Passover night began in 1836, Friday evening, April 1st." Therefore, the next day the Jews prepared their lamb of sacrifice and that night, Saturday night, ate the sacrificial or Paschal lamb. At midnight they opened the door for the entrance of Elijah — midnight in Jerusalem, Saturday night, April 2nd, would occur sometime in the day on the other side of the earth where Kirtland lay in Ohio, in the United States. Let us now quote from the History of the Church: "Sunday, Apr. 3. — Attended meeting in the Lord's House, and assisted the other Presidents of the Church in seating the congregation, and then became an attentive listener to the preaching from the stand. Thomas B. Marsh and David W. Patten spoke in the forenoon to an attentive audience of about one thousand persons. In the afternoon, I assisted the other Presidents in distributing the Lord's Supper to the Church, receiving it from the Twelve, whose privilege it was to officiate at the sacred desk this day. After having performed this service to my brethren, I retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped, and bowed myself, with Oliver Cowdery, in solemn and silent prayer. After rising from prayer, the following vision was opened to both of us. "Vision manifested to Joseph the Seer and Oliver Cowdery: (Doc. & Cov. Sec. 110.) * * * "After this vision had closed, another great and glorious vision burst upon us, for Elijah the Prophet, who was taken to heaven without tasting death stood before us, and said — "Behold, the time has fully come, which was spoken of by the mouth of Malachi, testifying that he (Elijah) should be sent before the great and dreadful day of the Lord come. "To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, children to the fathers, lest the whole earth be smitten and withthea curse. "Therefore the keys of this dispensation are committed into your hands, and by this ye may know that the great and dreadful day of the Lord is near, even at the doors" (History of the Church Vol. n, pages 435-6). 210 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Intimately associated with the message of EHjah is the labor going on in the temples built to the name of Jehovah in this generation. The Latter-day Saints are the only people on earth to whom such a mission could be committed, and they are the only people on earth who are carrying on the message and mission given by the Prophet Elijah to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Are the mothers in Israel spiritually cognizant of the signs of the times and of the events which have and are transpiring preparatory to the winding up scene? Let us give thanks during the Paschal season this year, and recall the marvelous events which have occurred and which will hereafter occur.during this symbolic season of the year. The 6th day of April is and should be a sacred day to the Mothers of Israel.