EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SusA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. hi. MAY, 1916. No. 5. PAYING THE PRICE. We pay for The work looks so tempting before us, if it is good work work we love to do, that we scarcely realize the done. price we pay when we have accomplished the. task. The result will be so beautiful, so comely, so clean, so desirable, so altogether according to our own no- tions of how work ought to be done, that we crash into ob- stacles and climb over mountains of housework or brainwork without counting the cost. The house must be cleaned, the washing must be done, the dresses must be finished, the fruit must be put up, the lesson must be prepared, the visits must be paid. And so we go blindly on, overtaxed and stumbling. Nature will demand her price, sooner or later. Ambition's There is some great object or ambition which we Lure. have had in mind that will mean so much, not only to us, perhaps, but to the community in which we live or, perchance, to the family which we love. And so, for uncountable hours, days and weeks, we strive and strug- gle, and collapse happily at the end, if only we have climbed the height and achieved the object of our ambition but we; pay the price. Nature demands the payment of her debt, every moment, every hour. She may exact her payment in the neg- 
 lected friendships, in the untidy homes, in the untaught chil- dren, or through the bankruptcy of our own nervous system, but be assured she will exact her toll. Pleasure's Some pleasure lures us —a trip to the coast, a Heavy journey to the East, a visit to the sacred temple, debts. and the prospect itself is fascinating beyond de- gree and the plans we lay are rosy with promise. The imagination paints for us all the delights, all the pleas- ures, the profits and the joys of our undertaking, but only the wise know how to value these mirages on the desert of our fancy for be it known to all women that every pleasure, every; joy, every trip even, every visit to church or temple, demands from us its full price. Achievement is always a negotiable quan- tity. Whatever effort we put forth, we at once must ex- change with nature her equivalent, whether she exacts it in wearied muscles, worn nerves, sudden illness, or disappoint- ment when the object is gained. For every pleasure we must pay two pangs. The Toll Above the struggles that humanity enters all Gate of into, thatsupreme effort for spiritual supremacy Salvation. which is couched in the word salvation, demands the highest payment in return. It is so easy to run down hill, so difficult to climb up, especially with the hand- icaps of disinclination, temptation and the burdens of human limitations. We must pay the price. Bless your soul, anybody that achieves anything, even if it is only a burglar who climbs in the window, pays the price for his daring, in his stunted character and in his degeneracy. Those who ride in automo- biles, make their payment to life, a very much heavier toll indeed, than those who walk in the quiet paths in the meadow. Those who inhabit mansions bankrupt every resource of hu- man nature in sustaining and maintaining the handicap of their palatial homes. While the men and women who become musicians, artists, professionals, those who enter business or who conduct enterprises all those who preside in official posi- ; tions, those who bear the pangs and pains of rejecting or ac- cepting; of refusal or consent of giving encouragement or ad- ; — ministering reproof these all pay heavy draughts for that which they accomplish. Every home-maker and every home- builder pays his price for his pleasure and his comforts, in proportion as it is great or small. What debts How then shall we measure life values and deal shall we only in such exchange as shall increase our incur? mental and spiritual resources, while robbing no other soul of just due? Through choosing al- ways the difficult, unselfish things to do, climbing hard paths: EDITORIAL. 285 of self-control and of devotion to community duties. By meas- uring ourselves wisely, taking stock accurately of our own re- sources and refusing daily to go into personal bankruptcy, no matter how tempting the lure, nor how heavy the pressure. The full price is demanded from us even for the well-chosen duties and pleasures, but He who spake as never man spake before has taught that even the wages of sin spell Death for the sinner; while the beautiful price of obedience to His laws is life eternal. Therefore, come! Go cheerfully forward, eas- ing as we may the yoke upon the shoulder, the cross over the heart. We say with Browning, 'T have always been a fighter — one more fight." Better, let us say, after each day's work, with Paul, "I have fought a good fight, I have kept the faith, T have finished my course," and so some day we shall enter into rest. "SUFFRAGE SNAPSHOTS." W'e have received from the author, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, one of the brightest contributions in the form of a book, '"Sufifrage Snapshots," we have ever seen. The title page bears the appeal, "Have a smile with me." The contents consist of witty paragraphs on the W^oman Question. All of them are jokes and yet, there is no joke in the permanence of the ideals presented in this book. For instance. I quote one "When Utah's electoral college met to cast the vote of the State for President and \*ice-President. its members selected the one woman elector to carry the result to Washington. Those \\''estern States are constantly giving just such examples as this of the way men lose respect for women when they can vote and hold office." This book can be purchased at National Suffrage Headquarters. New York City. Price. 15 cents. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in June. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. RUTH. (Read, first, chapters 17-21 of Judges, and then Ruth.) It is thought that the Book of Ruth comes in between Judges and Samuel. The narrative itself assigns the setting vaguely as "in the days when the judges ruled." Josephus gives the time as the days of Eli the prophet. At the time of the story therefore, as well as before and after, there were corruption, violence, and apostasy, among the Israelites. On this dark background is painted the pure, trans- l^arent figure of Ruth, whose story is intimately known every- where among civilized peoples. Ruth was a Moabitish woman. The Moabites, whose home was south and east from the Dead Sea, were, according to the Bible, descendants of Lot, the nephew of Abraham. Although not Israelites, they were therefore kinsmen of the Israelites. Elimemlech's family had gone to Moab from Bethlehem to escape a famine, and there one of his two sons met and married Ruth, the other son marrying Orpah. And the two sons, Mahlon and Chilion, died, as also did the father. Then Naomi, the mother, "arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab." It is here that the story really begins. There can be no doubt that the central characteristic of Ruth's nature is devotion, as exhibited in her attachment to Na- omi. When the two young women had gone as far with their mother-in-law on the way to Bethlehem as the custom of those days would require, "Naomi said unto her two daughters-in-law, 'Go, return each to her mother's house. The Lord deal kindly " with you, as ye have dealt kindly with the dead and with me.' Orpah returned as requested, but Ruth refused to do so. "Intreat me not to leave thee." she said in a beautiful and memorable pass- age, "or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go and where thou lodgest, I will lodge thy people; : shall be my people, and thy God my God where thou diest, I will: GUIDE LESSONS. 287 (lie,and there will I be buried." And she accompanied her mother-in-law to Bethlehem, where they both lived, so far as we know, the rest of their lives. Nor does Ruth's attachment to Naomi diminish on reaching Bethlehem. Ruth there appears as the mainstay, literally as well as figuratively, of the older woman. For one thing, she gleans in the field of Boaz and brings the fruit of her toil home to her mother-in-law, and, for another, she opposes her uncom- plaining disposition to murmurings of Naomi. "Call me not Naomi," the older woman complains, "call me Mara for the; Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me." None of this sort of thing do we hear from Ruth. And then, too, Ruth follows the guidance of her mother-in-law as implicitly as if she had been a child leaning upon superior knowledge and experience, but withal in such a way that leads us to feel that she is distinctly aware of her own real leadership. aware of her own real leadership. Ruth's subsequent marriage to her husband's kinsman Boaz is another proof of her obedient and willing spirit. It may be quite possible, however, that Boaz was both attractive and manly as well as rich and wise. So that Ruth's stratagem was not an unpleasant duty for her to perform. No doubt devotion, faithfulness, was Ruth's natural disposi- tion. Orpah evidently looked to her own interest as it was mani- fest at the time to eyes that saw not in the distance. Nor must we minimize the effort required to leave the home country with its peculiar people, customs, traditions, and religion. But these Ruth also would have to abandon, and did abandon. So she must, by nature, have been inclined to the practice of this beau- tiful trait of character. Orpah, as Ruth, must have seen the loneliness of the mother-in-law, but it did not touch her as it did the sympathetic nature of the other. And so Ruth yielded to the call of the lonely, the helpless. One cannot but feel, as one looks at the situation in its larger bearings, that Ruth was also giving up herself to a greater call — the call of the Voice that is still and low, the Voice that is heard only by our deeper and better selves, the Voice that calls out of the far distance, the Voice of destiny and of God. A simple, modest, and delicately organized woman, such as Ruth is rep- resented to us in this fine story, she is eminently fitted to become tlieantecedent of the Shepherd King, from whose loins was to ccnic the gentle Christ. QUESTIONS. 1. Who was Ruth? 2. Trace the hand of the Lord in the story. 3. What traits of character does Ruth exhibit? 4. How would these traits of character work themselves out in modern life — that is, what things would lliey lead one to do? 
 LESSON 11. Work and Business. Second Week in June. LESSON in. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in June. GENEALOGY. CONCLUSION. The wonderful fact that 40,000 women of this Society have been spending some time, at least, this winter in the study and preparation of individual sheets, is the most stupendous happen- ing in genealogical circles for the year 1915. Naturally the ques- tion now arises, What shall the results of our wondrous work be? It may be well to explain exactly what these sheets are and why we have used them. They are sample sheets from the Mc- Alister Living Record Book. Our forefathers were in the habit of keeping family Bibles in which were entered the births, deaths and marriages of the family. The parish church kept a record also of the marriage, birth and death, but each family felt the vital necessity of preserving the family records in their own homes. If a question arose in legal or social matters, it was a difificult matter and sometimes impossible to secure the date re- quired from the parish clerks, for the various items of informa- tion would necessarily be scattered through different parish records, separated as the items would be by intervening years. The family Bible, however, kept that information compactly be- tween the lids of that sacred book which was guarded as a treasure above price. The family Bible has passed out of existence practically, es- pecially the keeping of records therein. What is taking the place of the family Bible in our homes? It is certainly important that v,'e shall get the records of our dead and record them properly, and then preserve them, but it is more vitally important that we shall record and preserve all data concerning ourselves and our children. Our descendants will be quite as disappointed in us if we fail to do this as we are with our grandparents who may have failed to preserve their records for us. The McAllister Living Record Book was prepared imder the GUIDE LESSONS. 289 direction and approval of the First Presidency of the Church for the express purpose of recording therein the data which usually went into the family Bible. More than that, very much more, for the author of the book, not only provided places where marriage, birth and death can be recorded, but has included the important items of baptism, of endowments, of missions, of ordinations, or in the case of women, where they were set apart for certain offices, of removal from place to place, and made a place for our educational records. In addition to all this the author provides for a few important eugenic facts such as the weight, the height, the color of the eyes and hair, and the physical habit. Think of the infinite value to our descendants, of these interesting facts. We say emphatically that every family in this Church should purchase and fill out a Living Record Book. All need it. All should have it. If there be any widows in the Church who are too poor to purchase this book, it might be suggested that they buy a dozen or more of the sample sheets and sew them together with a brown paper cover, taking just as good care of this as they would of the record itself. Every child that is born should be entered at once into this Living Record. As he is baptized and confirmed, these entries should be made with the names of those who officiate in the cere- mony; when he starts to school and the dates of all his ordina- tions in the priesthood, his missions and finally his marriage. Think how valuable that would be if you had such a record con- cerning all of your parents and grandparents whom you knew and loved. Then consider the joy and gratitude of yoiu- de- scendants if they possess that information concerning you. How many are there in this Society who have not the scratch of a pen in their own homes concerning the births, blessings, missions, etc., etc., of their children or themselves. This is a genealogical crime and should be remedied at once. Therefore, we close this sea- son's lessons with the earnest suggestion that as far as possible every member of this Society shall secure a Living Record Book and fill it up properly or at least as well as may be. Make birth- day presents and Christmas presents of these books to your family and friends. The Living Record Book is not at all like the record books which have been prepared for the names of our kindred dead and our progenitors. No doubt most of the students are aware of these facts, butwe state it for those who are not familiar witli this point. One more point remains before we conclude this sea- son's work. A great many ask what shall be clone with the sheets which have been filled out during this winter's work. \Yq would suggest that >'ou make duplicate sheets and keep your own as a sample by which to ])repare your book, and then deposit the dupH cate in tlie archives nf the sncietv \\Mien tlic great i?enealoiricnl. 
 library is opened in the new Administration Building in this city, there may be a call issued for all these duplicate sheets from the v\omen of the Society. So we suggest taking excellent care of them. QUESTIONS. What is the difference between the McAllister Living Record and the Record Book for temple work? What have you done about your own living temple record? Why does each family need a living record book? How would you proceed to fill up your living record book? Let such members of the class as may possess family Bibles with records in them produce them at this lesson. Also any who may have filled up their living temple books can exhibit them to the class. ART. SUMMER LANDSCAPE. The latter part of May, and the beginning of June show Nature's greatest profusion of flowers in our Intermountain region. As far as may be, Nature will now be robed in green. Take notice of the wide difference in shades and tints of green by sunlight, shadow, twilight, moonlight, and by starlight. These should be studied. Green is persistent, its color shows strongly at night, or by lamplight. Note the difference in sage-brush green with its blue tendency. The alfalfa in strong sunlight shows more yellow. The apple green also has the same warm tone of yellow. The sage and willow we call cool greens, the alfalfa and apple green in sunlight are the warm greens. Look out on the fields and note the cool green in oat patches, and try to analyze the difference of tone in the various kinds of grain. One has more blue, another more yellow or more purple than the others. Now the sky is filled with fleecy clouds, and the blue breaking through is very intense. A JUNE PICNIC. June is the time for summer picnics. Choose the most de- lightful spot for a walk on this the year's most perfect day. Per- fectdevelopment shows in all growing things. Now we see the promise of fruits and seeds, which will be harvested in the fall. — The air is warm, balmy, and pleas&nt the sounds are cheerful. The birds* young broods are talking to their mothers, the insects hum, color is fresh, strong, exciting, and pleasant. There is less of grey than at any other time of year, excepting brightest au- tumn. June feels joyous, full of hope, self-satisfied. CUinii LESSONS. 291 a. Describe the fields from a high position. b. Describe your visit out to nature. c. Which is darker, the sky or the fields? d. Which are darker, the plowed lands or the g-reenpatches? e. What is the color of the plowed lands? f. Which are darker, the nearby fields or the far-away? g. Which are darker, the newly plowed fields, or those plowed last summer? h. What is most exquisite in May time? (Answer) May morning. i. What is most wonderful in June? (Answer) The noon time, and the June twilight. j. Describe a May morning. ARCHITECTURE. AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE —THE FORMATIVE PERIOD, THE COLONIAL OR GEORGIAN PERIOD. a. Let a native of England describe the land from which the American Colonists came. b. Describe America as the Colonists found it. c. What kind of architecture would the Pilgrims naturally use, and why could it not be exactly copies from that of the Mother country? d. In what other things were the Colonists interested than in houses, and why? e. What style of architecture or house-building did the natives employ? f. Have we a national style of architecture? g. Speak of the Formative Period. h. Show pictures of the first American buildings if you can. i. What materials were available for the American home? j. What materials became most popular among the Col- onists? k. What is the Colonial Period? 1. What are the reasons for the great beauty of Colonial style? m. Describe Christ's Church, Philadelphia. n. Describe the interior of Christ's Church — Hartford. o. Describe Shirley House — Virginia. p. Describe Craigie House — Cambridge. 292 RELlEl- SOCIiiTY MAGAZINE. Lesson VI. Home Economics. Fourth Week in June. THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME. THE ORGANIZATION OF HOUSEWORK. I Woman's Work in the Home. 1. Results to be obtained. a. Physical activities. b. Activities for higher.life. 2. The ideal housekeeper. a. Homemaker vs. housekeeper. 3. Hygiene of housework. II. The Day's Work. 1. System vs. haphazard effort. 2. Co-operation between the work of man and woman. 3. The maker and master of the system. 4. A working schedule of housework. a. The schedule. III. Children and Housework. 1. Train while young. a. Boy as well as girl. IV. The Rest Hour. 1. The physiology of rest. 2. The method. Roll callOne way to save work. : Gem: Proverbs 31:10-31 read: "She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Ller children arise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he ])raiseth her." /. Woman's Work in the Home. Sisters, why do you work? For what purpose do you sjiend so lavishly the only thing you really own on earth — your time and your energy? 1. The results to be obtained. The general purpose of housework may be expressed thus To give joy and health and: happiness to your loved ones and thus to attain it yourself to make through your efiforts an ideal home in every sense of the term. a. The physical needs of the home are those which con- tribute to the health and comfort of its inmates and include nutri- . CUinii LESSONS. 293 tion, light, heat, cleanHness, and convenience. The activities which make possible these conditions are many and varied, and include cooking, sewing, sweeping, dusting, bed-making, wash- ing, ironing, nursing, and countless other processes which come in the daily round of every woman's experience. b. The higher life of man. In addition to the foregoing, the housekeeper must so order her home work that the so-called higher needs of her family may be met. She must inspire in them a desire for an education to assume their share of civic or; neighborhood improvement; to enjoy and extend true hospitality; to obtain aesthetic enjoyment in the arts, music, literature; and last, and most important, to encourage their moral and spiritual growth. 2. The perfect housekeeper. All of these requirements are rather a large order to give any one weak mortal, and yet that is what is given to every woman who faces life as a mother or home-maker. Of course, all women do not accomplish it equally well; all desire to do so, and strive to improve. a. Home-maker vs. housekeeper.Most women desire to be perfect home-makers which means so much more than to be a so-called "perfect housekeeper." The former is she who sees that all the functions of her life as mother are fulfilled. She recognizes the great value of a clean, orderly home and so orders her time that she has strength to do that properly, and also enough left to instill into her family a love of the nobler things in life. The latter may be a very disagreeable person to live with, even though the inside and outside of the house be scrubbed to a shining cleanliness and the abhorred speck of dust may never find an abiding place. The really perfect housekeeper is she who understands that the house is for comfort and not discomfort, that the home is made for the husband and children and not the family for the home. She will understand that it is better to have an untidy house for a part of the day, if that is the means to make Sonny and his friends feel that home is the very best place on earth in which to spend an afternoon or evening. The perfect housekeeper is she who, when she finds that she cannot do all that she would like to do, is content to let some work go undone, if by so doing she may obtain something more valuable and more desirable. She is a master of proportions, and chooses those things in her daily life w"hich have the most lasting value. She studies and prays to be able to discriminate amongst all the desirable things of life, those things which are the essential and which are the non-essential. 3. The hygiene of housework. This subject must not be passed without emphasizing the benefits of housework. No gym- nasium was ever equipped that oflFers the same array of health- 294 KELILI' SOCIET)' M.U..IZJNE. giving exercise that the ordinary home does. If women would only dress comfortably and sensibly, and use wisdom in the per- formance of all tasks, working in properly ventilated homes, no healthier work could be found on earth than housework. Discuss. //. The Day's Work. In order that one may have time to be home-maker as well as housekeeper, it is necessary to make use of every moment wisely and to plan the day's work so carefully that the housework moves like a well oiled machine. This requires real brain work and is a task equal in importance and difificulty to any that is performed by men in the business world. Some women seem to be born natural organizers, yet all women may improve in this respect if they will take the necessary time and trouble to make for themselves a working plan. 1. System vs. haphazard efifort. The only way to accom- plish any great work is to reduce it to a system; and this is especially true regarding housework with so many varied tasks and so much necessary routine. The meals come in every home, regularly, twice or three times a day, and the other work must group itself around that. If housework is not systematized but done only when the notion strikes the worker, be sure the result will be an untidy home. It is so in business it is more surely so in the home. ; Regularity and precision must mark the performance of house- work or chaos results. Dirt accumulates so fast in this mortal existence that the worker must be most vigilant and systematic to keep ahead of it, and if women would only use their heads more they would need to use the body less. It is a true saying the "head should save the heels." Co-operation in homes is especially desirable that a closer relation exist between the workers on the farm or in the shops and those in the home, so that the work of each may be done with less friction and loss of time. The wise woman will use her wits and her charm to get her husband to see her point of view. She will be equally willing to see his and give them the support and sympathy in his work that she expects from him in return. 3. The master of the system. If it is necessary to have system in the performance of housework, it is more necessary that the one who makes the system must be the master of it. One could scarcely find a more unsuccessful home than the one in which the system is "boss." No joy or spontanity is possible in — such a home because life itself is so variable. The system must be subservient to the best interests of the family; so that the clock-work machinery continues when all is normal, but may take second place during sickness or any unprecedented occurrence. It must be so elastic that it can adjust itself to the varying de- GUIDE LESSONS. 295 mands of family life. There is no greater slave on earth than the woman who is a slave to her system. Whatever happens one must remain master of one's work. 4. A working- schedule.It is a great mistake to make the work of one or two days of the week so very hard that the worker is exhausted at the end of them. It is much wiser to spread the necessary work of the week over the six days so that n,o one day is especially crowded. If housework is done accord- ing- to a weekly or monthly schedule this may be accomplished and also much of the dreaded semi-annual house cleaning may be avoided. The schedule must vary according to the number of hands there are to do the work. If a woman has no maid, and her children are small, she must plan more wisely than ever, that work may be done in such a way as to leave her some energy at the end of each day. Homes vary as do personalities, and no two could use the same schedule. However, a plan is given here that has been found successful. The home which uses this plan is large and one maid is kept, but it may serve as a guide and may be adapted to fit any condition. This schedule is type-written, framed and hung in the kitchen. It is found to be much more satisfactory than to repeat instructions to children or to a new maid if there is one, and, all in all, is found to be a great saver of energy and annoyance. In this family, too, since it is possible to use electricity for washing and ironing, this process occurs every other week. In the older countries of Europe, washing is done only once a month or once in three months or less often. A business is made of the laundry for two or three days or a week, then it is out of the way for a long period. If properly arranged for the less fre- quent washing is a great saver of time and strength as well as clothing. This is worth considering. a. The Schedule. Every Day. I. Clean bowl and taps in bath room as you wash. II. Make fire, brush ofif stove; empty, wipe off and refill tea kettle. (No mention is made of ashes because a chute runs from stove to a large can in basement and is emptied by a man once in three months.) 1. Begin breakfast. 2. See about yeast and bread. Mix on Monday, Wednes- day, Saturday. III. Brush up front part of house. 1. Open windows and doors to air, remove plants. 296 RELlEl^ SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 2. Brush up (sweep if necessary) library, front room, study, hall, front porch. 3. Dust and straighten. 4. Water plants as needed. 5. Put away books and magazines. I\''. Breakfast at 8 o'clock. 1. Some kind of cereal, and fruit. Chop or eggs. Barley cofifee, cambric tea or milk. V. Clear away. 1. Brush up dining room, downstairs bedroom, bathroom, stairs and porch. 2. Do the dishes as instructed. Clean kitchen and pantry. 3. VI. Dinner at 12 o'clock. 1. Meat, potatoes, one vegetable, dessert. 2. Clear away. 3. Wipe up kitchen floor every other day. Clean thoroughly on Thursday. VII. Supper at 6 p. m. 1. Leftovers soup or vegetable. ; 2. Look up menus in cook books for supper. Special Day's Work. Sunday. I. Dust and straighten downstairs. L Water plants. 2. No breakfast. 3. — Dinner at noon clean linen. 4. — Dutch supper, usually to be simple as possil)le. Monday and Tuesday (every other). 1. Wash and iron. 2. Clean cellar. Monday and Tuesday (the other ones). 1. Clean and straighten house as per daily program. 2. Possible guest dinners. 3. Odd jobs. Wednesday. 1. Dust and straighten as usual. 2. Meals as usual. 3. Clean dining-room and back porch. a. Salt and peppers, wipe off and fill. b. Sugars and spoons, wash and fill (lunip. cinnamon. common. c. Wash napkin rings — keei^ing (rack of napkins. (1. Turn table cloth. e. Clean evervthing on sideboard and serving table.