[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department]

By Janette A. Hyde

There is no doubt that people are somewhat tired of the word "Conservation," yet it required all the power of the United States press as well as the energy of 20,000 public-spirited workers to impress the rest of the people with the importance and practical meaning of this word. Much good has been accomplished through conservation and preparedness; and yet we must prepare for even greater and more telling results the coming year.

Now is the time to plan for future gardening. Nature yields according to the preparation which is made for crops far in advance of planting, and that preparation is briefly to fertilize and dig. Secure seed catalogues early. Send for bulletins published by the United States Department of Agriculture at Washington. Be willing to try new kinds and varieties of vegetables. Become familiar with all forms of vegetable life by studying their growth and food values. "Man know thyself;" and to paraphrase this "know vegetable life" would be a good motto for housewives.

Next to production of foods comes the cooking and conserving of them. Crisp vegetables that are tender may be eaten raw, such as celery, cabbage, lettuce, tomatoes, etc. Cooking is an art greatly neglected and much of the valuable content of vegetable food is lost and thrown down the sink, thus impairing the flavor. To get the best results, bake such foods as white and sweet potatoes, onions, beets, dried beans, peas, pumpkin, squash. Steaming is a more economical method of cooking vegetables than boiling, as there is no nutritive material lost, though the flavor of the food may not be quite so good as the baked foods. Allow more time for steaming than for stewing or boiling; more for baking than for boiling.

Fifteen minutes is quite sufficient for such vegetables as summer cabbage and sweet corn; thirty minutes for asparagus, peas, potatoes of medium size, summer squash, tomatoes; forty-five minutes for tender beets, carrots, onions, parsnips, medium sized potatoes, sweet potatoes boiled; sixty minutes for stringed and shelled beans, cauliflower, oyster plant, young turnips; two hours for old carrots, beets and turnips; and from six to eight hours for dried beans, or peas. Soak in cold water and

bake in oven, adding more water. Never boil dried corn. Let stand several hours or all night soaking in cold or fairly hot water. Put to boil ten minutes before dinner.

Potatoes may be served boiled, mashed, escalloped, creamed, French fried, made into a puree, etc. Celery may be stewed, creamed, made into a salad, and used for soup, flavorings, etc. Cabbage may be used for slaw, salad; may be creamed, stewed, stuffed, fried, baked, escalloped with cheese, etc. There are 135 different ways of serving apples, and this department will be glad to furnish recipes to any subscriber making a request for the same.

MRS. S. Y. GATES' POPULAR FRUIT CAKE.

For Two Large Cakes.

The inside crumbs of 2 5-cent loaves of white bread.
2 lbs. Blue Ribbon raisins.
2 lbs. seedless raisins.
1 lb. chopped walnuts, more or less.
1 lb. butter. If suet is used this recipe makes a plum pudding.
2 scant lbs. sugar.
2 heaping teaspoons cinnamon.
1 nutmeg.
3 tablespoons essence of lemon.
8 eggs, beaten separately.
1 qt. sour milk and 1 even teaspoon soda or 1 pts. sweet milk, and 2 teaspoons yeast powder.
1 pt. flour with soda or yeast powder sifted in.

Cream butter and sugar, add creamed yolks of eggs, then whites and milk; sift the flour in the raisins and nuts, add bread crumbs to milk, sugar and eggs. At the last add the floured fruit; put at once into pans and bake in a moderate oven over three hours.

TOAST TO MOTHER.

As Yuletide comes to us this year
It fills my mind with thoughts of cheer.
Most blessed is the memory of one
Who caused in me life's blood to run.

So on thee now, sweet Mother of mine
I wish God's blessings for all time,
That the peace and happiness of this hour
Shall come again with the spring time flower.

P. A. Roberts.

God bless the Utah soldier boy who wrote this.