[Column 1]
		THE RISING GENERATION.
	The world outside of the Church of Lat-
ter-day Saints is getting very anxious about
the youth of the present day. Too much
frivolity, extravagance and pleasure-seek-
ing, in and among all classes of society, this
is the opinion given in articles published in
the best class of magazines by famous
writers, and it is a subject discussed in the
homes of the people and elsewhere. What
shall be done to avert the danger? How
are the young people to be convinced of the
consequences of the course pursued by the
majority of the boys and girls in their teens,
or just past that stage? To refer them back
to the times gone by seems useless; when
people do this, they subject themselves to
ridicule of a very disagreeable nature, and
do little, if any, good; but there must of
necessity eventually be a reform, and where
or how will it be brought about. 
	We are well aware that to attempt any
criticism of the present educational system
is to offend the dignitaries of colleges and
universities the world over. Yet there are
some men, and even women, who are fear-
less enough to declare these things publicly. 
As an instance of the working out of some
of the newest educational methods, one fa-
mous writer says: “I recall serving on a
committee to award prizes for the best es-
says in a certain competition where the
competitors were seniors in an accredited
college. In despair at the material submit-
ted, the committee was finally forced to
select as, “best” the essay having the fewest
grammatical errors and the smallest num-
ber of misspelled words. The one theme
which showed traces of thought was posi-
tively illiterate in expression.”
	The writer also remarks these are some
of the minor indictments, but there are oth-
er things that are not what has been ardent-
ly hoped for as the result of the “higher
education” of the present. The modern girls
are louder-voiced and more pronounced in
every way, and their boy companions are
rougher and more familiar than used to be
thought well-bred. As distasteful as these
last mentioned things are they perhaps
should not be considered ground for com-
plaint in those who are soon to be in full
charge of the world, and as a matter of
course every generation has a right to its
own code of manners and customs. 
	Possibly we of today are justified in crit-

[Column 2]
cizing when they make such alterations in
the mode of living, and of fashions and
practices as are detrimental to the welfare
of the human race. 
	The question has been asked and repeated
—“Is the quality of the human product
really falling off.” There is a sort of sus-
picion in the minds of those who study these
matters scientifically that there is a material
change taking place in the physical life, and
constitution, as well as some serious delin-
quencies, and it is necessarily very humili-
ating to contemplate, and therefore high
time a reformation should begin instead of
more and more fads. 
	The causes of these things, if they do
exist are too complicated to go into, in a
brief manner, but to the young people just
coming on to the stage of action and who
will have these things to meet, they will,
if this be true, have very difficult problems
to solve. If higher standards of excellence
are to prevail in business and in politics,
then there must be wisdom, knowledge of
affairs, fortitude, moral courage and earn-
estness of purpose brought to bear to effect
the change; and is the training in colleges,
universities, and commercial life today, the
kind of essential discipline that will help
young men and women, (for it will need
both men and women) to fight the battle
against these evils and corrupt practices that
have been and are undermining the old-
fashioned types of American life. 
	Of course, the evidence of the facts that
“the human product is falling off,” are not
easily obtainable, and there must be positive
and undeniable proofs if people are to take
hold of so difficult a problem and attempt
to renovate society and change, as it were,
the very foundations on which human pro-
gress, so-called, stands today. It is a sort
of under-current not easily caught and held
for examination, yet palpably perceptible to
the wise, the prudent and far-seeing. 
	“Some of the pleasures indulged in today
are obviously corroding to the taste, to be
frank they are vulgarizing,” so says one of
the modern authors. 
	Again it is stated, “Can anything avail to
refine children whose tastes are formed by
the colored supplements of Sunday papers,
as their taste in entertainment is shaped by
continuous vaudeville and the moving pic-
ture shows.”
	Are not these things potent factors in
children’s lives now, and it cannot fail to
have an influence on plastic human material
unless some precaution is taken or some
powerful motive brought to bear in eradicat-
ing this pernicious evil tendency from their
tender minds. Formerly the parents of
these children saw occasionally such fa-
mous actors as Booth, Barrett and Mod-
jeska, and the play of Rip Van Winkle;
now their children go to see vaudeville al-
most constantly. 
	Fathers and mothers don’t approve usu-
ally of the children being so persistent about
common ordinary shows, but they hate to
have the children deprived of the pleasures
the neighbors’ children enjoy, and are not
strong-minded enough to set the example
and stand by their convictions. On some
points they are considerably conscientious
about the children’s teeth or hair or tonsils
etc., but the soul of the child that is most
precious is neglected or left to impressions
that are more weakening and defaming than
those of the body.

[Column 3]
	With all the boasting of our civilization
and higher education what are the results in
real human improvement? How far have
we advanced beyond our fathers? Is it not
a fact that the utmost that can be done for
the child today will not counterbalance the
rapidly-growing disadvantages of modern
conditions? Forging ahead at full speed ma-
terially, this generation is woefully dropping
behind in many respects. The fundamental
neglect now is the edccation of the soul, and
this can only be effected by early religious
training; this is what the people called Lat-
ter-day Saints are professedly trying to ac-
complish, but are we as a people earnestly
striving to keep alive the faith that will
make the children of the day strong, those
elements of character to meet difficulties,
the faith that has force and fortitude and is
capable of endurance and self-denial, life
demands this now as much or perhaps even
more than it ever did before. Measure
yourselves you young people by the high-
est standard of character, and make the ef-
fort of your life to reach it. Let it not be
said of the young people in our Church that
they are markedly inferior to their grand-
fathers in every way, shallower, feebler,
more flippant, less efficient physically and
even mentally though their work has been
more with books and their grandfathers
with flocks and herds or in the woods or
fields. 
	One writer tells of a young man who was
horrified on its being suggested to him that
he might have to care for his parents in
their old age. “It would interfere too
much’ he said, “with his conception of
working out his career.” Afraid of respon-
sibility, such words as character and duty
convey nothing to young people of this
type.”
	Is it not true that in former days when
there was more work and less amusement,
that people were better disciplined and there
was more growth and developmnet of the
soul? Experience and pain have in them
great possibilities for solving the problems
of life, or of selfhood, the great creative ele-
ments in personality are responsibility and
suffering. The raw material of the work-
man must have the hammer, the chisel, and
the drill. It is obvious men and women
are here to make something of life; the
whole matter is simple if we look at it prop-
erly and adjust ourselves to conditions in-
stead of rebeling and making life harder
and more difficult by maintaining the dig-
nity of the situation in which we find our-
selves left to work out some of life’s prob-
lems. 
	One of the common sayings of the young
people nowadays, is that “life is not worth
living if you can’t have what you want, and
go where you please.” The old-fashioned
books of New England life in the early half
of the nineteenth century were wholesome
reading, some of these are incomparable
text books on the art of living, the habits
and virtues of plain living, high thinking,
and purposeful lives. The men and women
of that day gloried in responsibility.
	It seems the world is very much alive just
now, and there is a fine chance for the young
people to make a good fight for the right
and win against the heavy odds at work to
destroy the better elements of character. 
	The children of this people called Latter-
day Saints should grow up with the dis-
tinction of the highest spiritual training,


and be an example to the world. Such has
ever been the prayers of the early members 
of the Church, and that this younger gener-
ation may be even more earnest and dili-
gent with the increased advantages afforded 
them seems almost assured. But in order 
to keep up this high standard of life in 
its truest meaning, the rising generation 
must cling close to the principles taught by 
the Savior when here upon the earth walk-
ing and talking with His disciples and the 
people with whom He conversed. 
We have “The Articles of Faith” that 
were prepared by the Prophet Joseph Smith
—that are par excellence—and all the in-
stitutions of the Church if abided by, tend 
to uplifting morally and spiritually; if the 
saints lived in possession of the spirit of
that divine faith which is the foundation of 
all growth and intelligence, and the soul 
and centre of all things and the power by 
which “the worlds were framed by the 
word of God.”


