[Column 1]
		SPARE MOMENTS.
	You will naturally ask what spare mo-
ments have mothers? Truly, not many,
but I will endeavor to place before you a
few ways in which a little more time may
be given her.
	The first thing is order, and system in
the home.
	A place for everything and everything in
its place, and a time for everything, each
day to have as far as possible its appointed
work.
	Every one should be trained to put things
away after using them. Children are apt
to be careless in this, and throw things
down for mother to put away. Check this
tendency at the time if possible. Train them
to look around and see what is required,
and do it without being told.
	A great deal of the cause of mothers
presence is due to want of proper training
for the children when they are young. Chil-
dren like to be busy, therefore direct their
energy!
	A baby of two years is delighted if he
can carry anything to the table for mother,
or help her in any way; encourage this,
and as they get older set them certain things
to do, that they recognize as their rights,
and never infringe on it or allow another
child to do so.
	I think a great want in the Kindergarten
teaching is the failure to teach the little
“tots” to use a needle and thimble. They
would at that time be only too glad to learn
it as play, and the advantage it would be
to them in later years would be unquestion-
able, as it would give them a love for sew-
ing.
	The usual practice of allowing the chil-

[Column 2]
dren to run wild as soon as school is out
is a source of a great deal of the trouble in
the management of the children today. Do
not prevent children having play, but let it
lead to useful knowledge. Teach little
girls to dress their dolls, crochet clothes for
them. A skein of yarn is inexpensive, and
will give them hours of useful amusement,
and prevent them running the streets or
living at neighbors’ houses.
	It will save the mother a great deal of
dirt in the house. Our children bring
enough dirt in the house, and cause enough
untidiness without all the neighbors’ chil-
dren making a thoroughfare of your home.
	Teach the children to find their amuse-
ments and interest in things at home. Our
yards in this country are large enough for
all the recreation they need. Put up a
swing, and a teeter totter, I think they call
it, for them and while the older ones are
helping mother peel potatoes, and other
various things, the litlte ones will amuse
themselves, and mother will have more
time to arrange her work.
	Let it be understood that the little ones
go to bed at 7 or 8 o’clock, and that
mother has nothing to do after supper.
That is her work time for the family, and
the time she can enjoy the society of her
husband.
	Let all the children, great and small, un-
der fourteen years, be in bed at 9 o’clock,
and no question or disputing about it. Nev-
er allow children to encroach on each others
rights in wearing their gloves, ribbons, etc.
A great deal of time is lost in looking for
things that somebody has used and not put
away.
	When my children were young we had
an old servant who, if anything was left
about of the childrens, she hid it, and gave
them the trouble of looking for it. When
asked about it she would say, Miss Mary,
if you put it away you would know where
to find it, with all the work I have to do,
I cannot take care of your things.
	If the children help in these things it will
give many spare moments to the mothers;
and if rightly used will help her consider-
ably. Have something always ready to take
up at a moment. Never be without a
mother’s necessaries, viz., Cotton, black and
white, needles, thimble, bodkin, tapes, and a
pair of good cutting scissors, which are to
be kept religiously for mothers use only.
	I once read an article in which it said
it was a husband’s duty to see that his wife
was always supplied with a good pair of
scissors and sharp knives for use. If a
mother always has her work tools ready
she can take many a stitch in a few spare
moments, but I fear in most homes, this par-
ticular part of the household appliances are
for everybodys use, and consequently can
never be found when needed.
	I knew a lady who used to go back and
forth to business, in a train, a half-hour’s
journey, and I know she knitted her chil-
dren twelve pair of black wool stockings in
those spare moments.
	If you have ironnig to do, keep your irons
on all days and whenever you have a spare
moment iron an article.
	Most mothers make over a large garment
to fit a smaller child, never trouble to un
pick it, cut the seams off and iron your
cloth flat and put your pattern on. It will
save time, especially if your irons are al-
ways ready. If the cloth requires washing
coat it with a good soaping of Naptha soap
and while you are doing something else,

[Column 3]
the dirt will be soaking out and a slight
rub and rinse will make it ready for iron-
ing, and at another spare moment you can
lay the pattern on and cut it out and it will
be ready to make up in the evening after the
children are gone to bed. Let the big girls
help you in the sewing. It is fitting them
for their future. Teach them life is learned
and not intended for a round of pleasure
and folly. Let them have a chance now and
then, to go to an amusement but do not
let them expect to be away from home
every evening, and mother doing the work.
	Home should be the home of the family
and not a place where mother is the family
drudge. It should be everybody’s duty to
help mother, she should be the first consid-
eration, and if father impressed this more
emphatically on the children it would have
a salutary effect.
	There should be a oneness in the home.
To make our own wishes subservient to the
needs of the others. Laziness in the chil-
dren leads to bad companionship, which is
the stepping stone to every vice under the
sun.
	Dr. Walls says Satan finds some mis-
chief still for idle hands to do. And why
should mothers be the only busy hands in
the family circle? Is it justice, I ask? In
last night’s Deseret News there was the
following paragraph:
	“Children should be taught to depend
upon themselves and also that they are
just as responsible for making home happy
and pleasant as are the older members of
the family.”
	Therefore, you see the mothers spare
moments and opportunities depend greatly
upon the other members of the family.
	Trusting that some good may be gleaned
from my remarks and that God will bless
the mothers and give them wisdom to bring
up their children, so that they can lessen
their burdens in these strenuous times, is
my prayer in the name of Jesus.—Maria
Francis.


