MILWAUKEE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	On the evening of Feb. 14th, 1911, the
Relief Society of the Milwaukee Branch of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, gave a chicken supper. The menu
included the following: Hot biscuits, car-
rots and peas, baked beans, celery, pickles,
mashed potatoes and several kinds of cake.
	The church was tastefully decorated in
red and white; small tables were used, cov-
ered with white paper with red hearts across
the center. The following named sisters
did the serving: Idell Crager, Madge Hill,
Freda Weiss, Olive Whitte, Laura Wittie,
Cecil McLausland. They were dressed in
white, with a large red heart for a cap.
The aprons were of white with small hearts
to form a border. Altogether the effect was
very pleasing.
	Those present were agreeably surprised
with the presence of President G. E. Ells-
worth and wife.
	While the object of this entertainment
was to obtain means to purchase a carpet
for the rostrum of their church, a greater
good was done in meeting strangers and
talking to them on the restored gospel and
their being invited to call at their homes.


Much credit is due the sisters for their
untiring efforts. Socially and financially
the affair was a decided success.
	The auxiliary organizations of the
Church, aided by the mutual dramatic club,
presented the branch with a new piano.
	I thought perhaps, Sister Wells, that this
little article would be of service to you in
your valuable paper. We have organized
our Chicago branch Relief Society and have
it now in a flourishing condition. Since
June of last year I have had charge of the
branches of the Relief Society of the mis-
sion, and I think a better work is being
done.
	We also have a Relief Society thorough-
ly organized in Rock Island, Ill., and Flint,
Michigan.
	I have wondered if it would be possible
for you to send the Exponent to each of
our four presidents. Of course one is al-
ready coming to Chicago president, but I
have been sending mine from here, but
they would feel ecnouraged if they re-
ceived the paper. Most of them are unable
to pay the subscription.
	Any advice or assistance given will be
gratefully received, for I desire above all
else to make a success of the organizations
over which I preside.
	Thanking you for your kindness in the
past, and praying our Father’s blessings up-
on you continually, I remain,
			Your sister,
