friends were present. The sum of one pound
nine shillings and eight pence was realized
after all expenses were paid.
	Saturday evening, February 4, 1911, a
delightful social was given in Montham
Road Assembly Rooms, Handsworth,
(Birmingham conference) under the au-
spices of the Birmingham branch Relief
Society. The party was in honor of Elder
Thomas F. Greenwood who has been re-
leased to return home. About two hundred
saints and friends assembled to bid him
God-speed. An exceptional program of
song and story was given by saints and
friends of the conference, and a delicious
luncheon was served during the evening by
the good sisters of the Relief Society and a
spirit of harmony prevailed among saints
and friends. A suitable token had been pro-
vided for the departing Elder and it was
presented by Elder Leonard Mackay, the
response by Elder Greenwood was full of
expressions of love and good feeling for the
saints and friends participating on this
memorable occasion.

[Column 2]
Wednesday night, February 8, 1911, El-
der James A. McMurrin of Edinburgh
branch Scottish conference was presented
with a fine Scotch traveling rug and dress-
ing case. Every one present partook of the
good-will and jollity of the occasion and
manifested their hearty appreciation of their
friend and brother who had been laboring
and presiding there and had won their
heart’s love, and was now about to leave
them and return to his home.
	Thursday evening, February 9, 1911,
about two hundred saints and friends of the
Glasgow branch (Scottish conference) gave
a very pleasant social at 30, Abbotsford
Place, Glasgow in honor of Elder Lorenzo
S. Burt, prior to his departure for his home
in Brigham City, Utah. An excellent pro-
gram of songs, recitations and instrumental
selections at an intermission about nine
o’clock a dainty luncheon was served, the
Elder was presented with a fine Scotch rug
as a token of their love and appreciation of
his labors friends as well as saints mani-
festing their esteem for him because of the
labors performed in Bonnie Scotland.
	Wednesday February 1, 1911, the Dover
Latter-day Saints Sunday School had a
treat in Templar Hall, Biggin Street, at 5
p. m. Superintendent Ben. Britten and
wife, with Sisters Eldredge and Gale, El-
ders John G. Duley, Wm. L. Coburn and
others made a happy time for the children.
Lantern slides, telling stories by pictures
was conducted by Brother Britten, the lights
were turned on again and every child had a
present and all the little ones had a bag of
sweets.
	Saturday evening, February 11, 1911, a
very well-attended and successful social was
given in the Nelson branch (Liverpool con-
ference) in honor of Elder Franklin R.
Smith who has labored there fifteen months,
and is now released to come home. A most
excellent program was rendered by the
saints and the friends of the branch and
light refreshments were served and Elder
Smith was the recipient of some handsome
presents, expressions of the confidence and
esteem of the saints.


