“THE CITIES OF THE SUN.”
	It has been said of the people of Utah
that though we excelled in art, and led in
music, we were far behind in literature.
This statement, if true, is probably due to
the fact that our literature is almost entirely
of a religious nature and not so generally
read nor advertised as our artistic or mu-
sical efforts are. Notwithstanding this,
there is occasionally issued from the press
some beautiful volume of prose or poetry
by Utah people which deserves more praise
and patronage than it generally receives.
Surely no people is richer in historical nar-
rative than the Latter-day Saints. The bare
history of the people from the foundation
of the Church, their building of cities and
temples, their migrations, their wanderings,
their explorations, their discoveries and in-
dustries, mingled with their many miracu-
lous deliverances and marvelous faith, are
worthy the pen of a De Quincy. What a
rich field here awaits the pen of some gifted
and imaginative writer!
	The reading and writing of fiction has
not been encouraged to any great extent
among the Latter-day Saints, for many
reasons. While it is the class of literature
which appeals most to the general public,
especially the youth, there is always a doubt
as to whether it is more helpful and bene-
ficial than harmful to the mind, that of
course depending largely on the wisdom
of the reader in the choice of his books.
This is probably the reason that Utah writ-
ers have produced more historical, scien-
tific and poetic works than romance.
	About Christmas time there appeared a
little volume of unusual interest to grace
the shelves of home literature—“The Cities
of the Sun,” by Miss Elizabeth R. Cannon.
The book is a collection of short stories
founded on the early history of the people
of the western hemisphere—as told in the
wonderful book of our people—the Book
of Mormon. The stories have for a set-
ting the lands of Zarahemla and Lehi-
Nephi, and for characters the personages
of that sacred book. The young writer,
however, while relating incidents in the
lives of the martyrs and heroes of those
days, clothes the stories with fanciful and
tender romance which, combined with po-
etical, descriptive paragraphs, makes a fas-
cinating book to delight the mind and ex-


cite the interest of the most languid reader.
The book is illustrated with a number of
pictures, some taken from the paintings of
that pioneer Utah artist, George M. Ot-
tinger, who so delighted in the depth and
richness of color of Mexican and Peruvi-
an subjects, and some original photographs
taken by the author herself during her
travels in Mexico.
	We trust the success of this first volume
will be such as to encourage Miss Cannon
to continue her literary efforts. She seems
to have entered a field for which she is well
fitted, and, judged by this effort, the fu-
ture holds a bright career for her.


