[Column 1]
	If the sisters have faith to heal the sick,
let them do so, and let the good work roll
on. It is no sin for anybody to administer
to the sick that has faith, or if the sick
have faith to be healed by the administra-
tion.
	Reproved those that were disposed to
find fault; spoke at some length on the
difficulties he had had to surmount ever
since the organization of the Church, on ac-
count of aspiring men; said the same as-
piring disposition will be in this Society
and must be guarded against.
	As he had the opportunity he would in-
struct the Society how to act according to
the will of God. He did not know that he
should have many opportunities of teach-
ing them, they were going to be left to
themselves, they would not long have him
to instruct them, the Church would not
have his instruction long and the world
would not be troubled with him a great
while, according to his prayer God had ap-
pointed him elsewhere.
	The congregation was melted to tears.
	He exhorted the sisters to sustain with
their confidence, their faith and their
prayers, those whom God had appionted to
lead. Said the keys are about to be given
to you, that you may be able to detect any-
thing false, as readily as the Elders. If
members of the Society become corrupt, you
must deal with them, the sympathies of the
heads of the Church have induced them to
bear with those that are corrupt, in conse-
quence of which all become contaminated,
you must put down iniquity and by your
good example provoke the Elders to good
works.
	If you do right there is no danger of go-
ing too fast, resist evil and there is no dan-
ger, neither God, man, angels or devils can
condemn those that resist everything that is
evil. As well might the devil seek to de-
throne Jehovah as that soul that resists
everything evil. You are now placed in a
situation where you can act according to
those sympathies which God has planted in
your bosoms. If you live in accord with
your privileges, angels cannot be restrained
from being your associates. Women, if
they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God. If we would come
into the presence of God we must be pure.
The devil has great power, his ways are de-
ceptive. Do not be contentious, but let the
weight of innocence be felt, which is more
mighty than a millstone hung about the
neck. Meekness, love, purity, these are the
things that should magnify us. 
	Iniquity must be purged out, then the
vail will be rent, and the blessings of heaven
will flow down.
	After this instruction you will be more
responsible, it is an honor to save your-
selves, all are responsible for themselves.
	He then read the 13th chapter of Corin-
thians. “Though I speak with the tongues
of men,” etc.; said do not be limited in
your views with regard to your neighbors’
virtues, do not think yourselves more right-
eous than others. You must enlarge your
souls towards others, if you would do like
Jesus and carry your fellow creatures to
Abraham’s bosom. He had manifested
long-suffering and we must do the same.
Said, “Though we have the spirit of proph-
ecy,” etc. Though one should become
mighty and do great things, overturn
mountains, and then turn to do that which

[Column 2]
is evil, all former deeds would not save
them, but they would go to destruction. As
you increase in innocence, virtue and good-
ness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others, you must be long
suffering and bear with the faults and er-
rors of mankind. How precious the souls
of men! The Society is to get instruction
through the order which God has estab-
lished, through the medium of those ap-
pointed to lead, and I now turn the key to
you in the name of God, and this Society
shall rejoice and knowledge and intelli-
gence shall flow down from this time, this
is the beginning of better days for you.
	When you go home never give a cross
word, but let kindness, charity and love
crown your works. Do not envy sinners,
exercise mercy towards them.
	Let your administrations be confined
mostly to those around you. As far as
knowledge is concerned it may extend to
all the world. But your administrations
should be confined to the circle of your
acquaintance, and more especially the mem-
bers of the Society. Those ordained to
lead the Society are authorized to appoint
officers as the circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be
in your own tongue, do not indulge much
in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take
advantage.
	You may speak in tongues for your com-
fort. But I lay this down as a rule, that if
anything is taught by the gift of tongues,
it is not to be received for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction
respecting women administering to the sick
by the laying on of hands, said it was ac-
cording to revelation, he never was placed
in similar circumstances, and never had
given the same instruction.
	At the ninth, meeting May 26th, the
Prophet read the 14th chapter of Ezekiel,
and said the Lord declared by that prophet
that the people should each one stand for
themselves and depend on no man or men;
in the state of corruption in the Jewish
Church that righteous persons could only
deliver their own souls. Applied it to the
present condition of the Church of Latter-
day Saints. If the people depart from the
Lord they must fall, they were depending
on the Prophet, hence there was darkness
in their minds.
	He had two things to recommend to the
Society. Be guarded in your speech; no
organized society can exist without giving
heed to this caution. All organized bodies
have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and
difficulties, the object is to make those not
so good equal with the good, and ever hold
the keys of power which will influence to
virtue and goodness.
	When you chasten and reprove never
mention it a[---] then you will be estab-
lished in power, virtue and holiness and
the wrath of God will be turned away. God
designs to save the people out of their sins.
Jesus said, “Ye shall do the works which
ye have seen me do,” these are the grand
key-words for the Society to act upon. 
	Tenth meeting was addressed by Bishop
N. K. Whitney, President Joseph Smith be-
ing present.
	Eleventh meeting, June 11th. President
Joseph Smith. It grieves me that there is
no fuller fellowship, if one member suf-
fers all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God; Christ said He came

[Column 3]
to call sinners to repentance, and to save
them. Christ was condemned by the right-
eous Jews because He took sinners into His
society, he took them upon the principle
that they repent. Nothing is so much cal-
culated to lead people to forsake sin as to
take them by the hand and watch over them
with tenderness. The nearer we get to our
Heavenly Father, the more we are disposed
to look with compassion on perishing souls.
I say to this Society if you would have God
to have mercy on you, have mercy on each
other. How mild the Savior dealt with
Peter, saying, “When thou art converted
strengthen thy brethren.” At another time
He said to him, “Lovest thou me? Feed my
sheep.” The Society is not only to relieve
the poor but to save souls.”
	Sixteenth meeting, held in the Grove,
Aug. 31st, 1842. After relating recent diffi-
culties President Joseph Smith had encoun-
tered while being hunted by his enemies,
he said, the Relief Society has taken an
active part in my welfare in petitioning the
Governor in my behalf. These measures
were necessary and your influence helped to
bring about my redemption from the hands
of my enemies. I have come here to bless
you. The Society has done well, their prin-
ciples are to practice holiness. God loves
you and your prayers shall avail much, do
not cease to let them ascend to God in my
behalf. The enemy will never get weary.
I expect He will array everything against
me, expect a tremendous warfare. He that
will war the Christian warfare will have
Satan and all the powers of darkness con-
tinually arrayed against him.
	A few things had been manifested to him
during his absence, respecting baptism for
the dead, which he would communicate next
Sabbath if nothing should occur to pre-
vent it. He then offered a fervent prayer to
God in behalf of the Society. After the
transaction of some business in the adjust-
ment of which President Smith offered
counsel—he then said he had one more re-
mark to make respecting baptism for the
dead which must suffice for the present and
until he had the opportunity to present the
subject at a greater length.
	All persons baptized for the dead must
have a recorder present, that he may be an
eye-witness to testify of it. It will be nec-
essary in the Great Council that these things
be testified of. It should be attended to
from this time. If there is any lack it may
be at the expense of our friends. This was
the last Relief Society meeting that Presi-
dent Joseph Smith attended.
	During the two years administration of
President Emma Smith and her associates,
visiting sisters were appointed to search
out the needy, to find work for the able-
bodied, to receive contributions and to re-
port conditions.
	The labors of the Society were extend-
ed to the four wards of the City.
	One thousand two hundred and seventy-
five names were enrolled as members. The
recorded receipts were $415.24.


