RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. 
		ENSIGN STAKE. 
	Minutes of conference of Ensign Stake 
Relief Society, held in Twentieth Ward 
meeting house, January 27, 1911, at 2 p. m.
	Stake President Margaret A. Romney
presiding. Singing; prayer by Dr. Maggie 
C. Roberts. Singing. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
then lectured on the subject of Adolescence, 
or the transition period of our children. 
	A vocal selection, by Ssiter Schofield.
	President Emmeline B. Wells then ad- 
dressed the meeting. Referred to the mat-
ter of dress in early days in Utah and at the 
present time, and advocated moderation 
and taste in the selection and make-up of 
our apparel. She recounted an instance of 
one who had the reputation of being well 
dressed in very early days in Missouri, with 
but one calico dress, which she wore all 
week and carefully washed and ironed Sat-
urday night and on the Sunday, was com-
plimented as being a well dressed woman. 
Do not be depressed in spirit, she said, for 
it has a bad effect on the household. It 
would be a good thing to invite to these 
conferences the officers of the Young
Ladies’ and Primary Associations, as those 
organizations really had their inception 
from our society. The ten cent fund, she 
said, is of great importance in our So-
ciety; for out of it the General Society has


to pay all its expenses including travel-
ing expenses for the officers and General 
Board, visiting annually the several stakes 
of Zion. She recalled the occasion of the 
Jubilee year, when President Taylor do-
nated liberally to the Latter-day Saints and 
the Relief Society, gave to the needy two-
thirds of the wheat they had stored. The 
Relief Society of Ensign Stake, as shown 
by the report have now considerable money 
for wheat, and but little wheat stored, and 
she advocated that the money be taken for 
the purchase of wheat at the first incom-
ing harvest. Mentioned the American
Woman’s League, the erection of a build-
ing here, etc. Explained clearly the Na-
tional Council of Women of the United
States, and our affiliation in that impor-
tant organization. She emphasized the im-
portance of testimony meetings, which she 
said should never be allowed to be crowded 
out or neglected. Related some personal 
reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph, and 
the transfiguration she had witnessed when 
the mantle of the Prophet Joseph fell upon
Brigham Young, concluding with a strong 
testimony of the truthfulness of the work. 
	Sister Schofield rendered a vocal selec-
tion, “Beautiful visions of days gone by.”
	The general and stake officers of the Re-
lief Society were presented by Sister M. 
H. James, and unanimously sustained. 
	Counselor Annie K. Hardy presented a 
resolution, urging upon the Legislature, now 
in session, prompt and favorable action on 
the proposed and pending bills pertaining 
to the extension and financial support of the
Juvenile Court work, which was voted upon 
unanimously.
	President Margaret A. Romney ex-
pressed gratification at the visit of Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells, and prayed that 
her life might be spared as long as she 
should desire life. She then announced the 
adjournment of this conference for six
months.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation, ye 
Saints of the Lord.”
	Benediction, Cecelia S. Barker.
		CECELIA SHARP BARKER, 
							Secretary.


