THE THREE UTAH PATRIOTIC SOCIETIES.
	The Daughters of the Pioneers, the
Daughters of the Mormon Battalion and
the Hand Cart veterans gave a character
ball and social in the Assembly room of the
Bishop’s Building on the evening of the
21st. About three hundred people partici-
pated in the festivities. Many of the cos-
tumes worn were very handsome and uni-
que; some wearing jewels, shawls, and
dresses of historical interest and as the var-
souvienne, schottisch, Sir Roger de Coverly
and other old time dances were engaged in,
the sight was both beautiful and interesting.
The quaint costumes, and manners of long
ago became the topic of conversation and
while some danced, others became reminis-
cent and repeated many charming and valu-
able anecdotes of the early social life in the
valley. The hostesses of the occasion were
the officers of the three societies who spared
no pains to make the party most enjoyable
in every respect.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club and the
Reapers Social joined in a very delightful
entertainment given in honor of Mrs. Em-
meline B. Wells, founder of the two clubs,
on the evening of the 23rd of February. The
party was held in the Relief Society head-
quarters and was partly in the nature of a
surprise to Mrs. Wells. About two hun-
dred guests were present and a very pleas-
ing musical and literary program was ren-
dered, most of the numbers being original.
A beautiful bouquet of red and white car-
nations eighty-three in number was present- 
ed Mrs. Wells with an original poem writ-
ten by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
	The object of the organization of these

[Column 2]
two clubs was to encourage and assist wom-
en writers and those interested in literary
work and was done October 1891-92, with
the approval and consent of the presiding
authorities of the Church They have been
the means of bringing to the front many
writers, both of prose and poetry, and the
kind and friendly criticism of the club mem-
bers has been of great assistance to the dif-
fident and modest authors.
	Mrs. Wells was quite overcome with the
many complimentary remarks given her on
this occasion, but the members of these so-
cieties never feel that they can adequately
show their love and appreciation to one who
has given them so much encouragement and
assistance for, as they express it, she has
caused them to know themselves. Mrs.
Wells was presented with a very handsome
purse and the evening was most enjoyable.
	The general officers of the Relief Society
gave a banquet and reception in honor of
their president Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
83rd anniversary Tuesday afternoon and
evening, February 28. It was the first pub-
lic affair given by the officers since Mrs.
Wells appointment as president and was
therefore something of an official recogni-
tion of her office. The banquet was held in
the upper dining room of the Bishop’s
Building and during the dinner the ladies
responded to toasts the subjects pertaining
to different phases in the life of the honored
guest, Mrs. Emily S. Richards acted as toast
mistress of the occasion and responses were
made by members of the general board.
	The evening was an open reception to
which the public generally were invited to
shake hands with the honored lady and
congratulate her on the attainment of so
many years in life’s long journey. How
beautiful it is to reach such an age and re-
tain the wit and charm and grace of youth,
combined with the wisdom and knowledge
that long years bestow. No wonder that
Mrs. Wells legion of friends delight to love
and honor her.—Camelia.


