MALAD STAKE. 
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held at Malad, Idaho, November 17, 1910. 
Convened at 10 a. m. President Eliza Hall
presiding:
	After opening exercises President Hall
made opening remarks, felt a great weight
resting upon her, had a great desire to do
her duty. Reports as follows: Portage,
Malad, St. John, Samaria, Pleasant View,
Woodruff. Reported in good condition, they
are following out the outlines and storing
grain, etc. Recitation from Woodruff Ward,
entitled: “Unawares.”
Counselor Sara A. Jones had a desire to
do her part and be charitable to all. Sister
M. J. Dalton felt willing to do all she could
to help the work along. 
	A sketch from Portage Ward, on the life
of Ex. President Bathsheba Smith. Annie
Sawyer gave some interesting remarks. 
Stake Counselor L. D. Jones addressed the
sisters, subject, “Be Kind to the Least of
God’s Children, Lest Ye Grieve Your Mas-
ter.” Bishop J. P. Jensen was proud of
the good work of the Relief Society, en-
couraged them to press forward. Presi-
dent Hall made closing remarks, was de-
lighted in the good teachings received. Clos-
ing song “Redeemer of Israel.” Benedic-
tion, Brother Howell. 
	Afternoon Session.—At 2 p. m. Presi-
dent Eliza Hall presiding. Singing. Presi-


dent Hall was pleased to have the support
of the Priesthood in attendance, and de-
sired us to be one of the best in Zion, en-
couraged the storing of grain. Washakie
was reported in harmony with others in
their work. Etty Morris and Mary Stuart
had a faithful testimony of the Gospel, and
were proud of the good teaching received
at the conference, and determined to follow
the teachings given. Treasurer Emma
Price gave some good counsel and wished
God’s blessings on all. Song by Mrs. Ran-
dall of Malad Ward, entitled, “Help the
Weak.’ Stake Counselor W. H. Gibbs ad-
dressed the conference, said too many peo-
ple look after other peoples business and
forget their own, encouraged the saints in
their duty one toward another, and to press
on in good works, and store more grain.
Recitation from Woodruff Ward, by Miss
Yearsley. Piano solo by Miss Benedict of
Malad. Song Verda Godwin, entitled, “The
Vacant Chair.” Brother Howell had many
thoughts of the day and the renewal of his
testimony, said no greater work can wom-
an do than this. President Hall made clos-
ing remarks, and thanked all for the inter-
est taken at this conference, closed by sing-
ing, “Count Your Many Blessings.” Bene-
diction by Brother J. P. Jensen.
