CHARACTER.
	“We are building every day,
	In a good or evil way,
	And the building as it grows
	Must our inmost thoughts disclose.
	Build it well, whate’er you do;
	Build it strong and straight and true;
	Build it high and deep and broad;
	Build it for the eye of God.”

	How do we measure or know a person?
it is by their character that we determine
their value. Our minds are given us, but
we make our character. The mind is the
garden, the character the fruits. We form
character by living right every day, doing
well every little act; for the little things
accumulate to form great things, by being
firm as the rock in the right, by having an
aim in life, and keeping it in view.
	Our acts and thoughts are the stones with
which this character structure is built. If
one stone is weak there is a flaw and the
whole structure is marred, making it more
subject to destructive elements and decay.
	What made Washington and Lincoln
great, was it greatness of mind? Not so
much as greatness and nobility of character.

“There’s something that’s better than rubies
	And nobler than riches and fame,
It will strew all your pathway with roses,
	If you try to keep bright a good name.”

[Column 2]
Let us dwell for a moment on the life of
Booker T. Washington. Even though a col-
ored man and handicapped on every side, he
overcame every obstacle and gained for him-
self a name and was a blessing to thousands
of his race, and this because of his strong
character. Nothing could keep him down.
Others felt his greatness and were ready to
do his bidding. We all know when we meet
a person with a strong character, we feel
it and are impressed with a sense of
strength.
	Emerson says, “Character is of a stellar
and undiminishable greatness. What others
effect by talent or by eloquence, this man
accomplishes by magnetism. Half his
strength he puts not forth. His victories are
by demonstration of superiority, and not by
crossing of bayonets. He conquers, because
his arrival alters the face of affairs.”
	With the end in view of helping to build
character in our children, are our courses
of study outlined and our most earnest ef-
forts put forth. What we want is men 
and women of power, who know not the
word fail. We have many examples of this
type in our nation and in our Church. Why
not more of them?
	“The mother in her office holds the key
to the soul.” Let us learn how to turn the
key which will open the door, letting in a
flood of truth and light, that the beauties of
nature and the glory of God may fill his
soul, giving him aspirations and ambitions
that will place him on a higher plane, where
the petty things of life and temptations serve
only to spur him on to greater action. The
office of motherhood is not to be considered
as lightly as heretofore. Largely through
the influence of the mother is the destiny of
nations shaped. Then why is she not given
more support and encouragement in her
calling?
	Mothers, let us awaken to our duties and
listen to the words of wisdom, given us by
the Lord through his holy prophets, to live
simply and purely, that we may make our
own characters strong and enduring and in
turn impart these characteristics to our chil-
dren, that our lives will not be in vain.

“Build today, then, strong and sure,
	With a firm and ample base;
And ascending and secure
	Shall tomorrow find its place. 
Thus alone can we attain
	To those turrets, where the eye
Sees the world as one vast plain,
	And one boundless reach of sky.”
				—Ethel M. Humphreys.


