IN MEMORY OF SUSANNAH P. BOOTHE
	On the morning of Nov. 24th, 1910, our be-
loved President, Sister Susannah P. Boothe,
passed away and in her passing away Box
Elder Stake lost one of its most noble women.
	Susannah Neff Pierce Boothe was born in
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, March 26th,
1831. She joined the Church when very young,
and participated in the hardships through which
the Saitns had to pass. She was one of the
Pioneers of ’47, walking a good deal of the way
across the plains, and with her father’s fam-
ily located at Mill Creek, Salt Lake county.
	In 1850 she became the wife of Eli Harvey
Pierce, and in 1851 she removed with him to
Brigham City, locating in the “Old Fort.” They
were among the first families to come to Brig-
ham, and Sister Boothe was identified with
the growth of the city.
	August 12, 1858, her first husband died, leav-
ing her with four small children. A few years
later she married W. H. Boothe, by whom she
had six children, making ten children in all, and
who are all living. She was remarkably strong,


never having been sick in bed from disease,
more than two days in her life, until her last
illness, during which time she suffered no pain,
and finally passed away in her sleep.
	She was a very industrious and energetic
woman, always doing something. As a Church
worker she was very active. When the Relief
Society was organized in May, 1868 in Brig-
ham City, eight teachers were called and Sister
Boothe was one of them. She acted in this
calling until March, 1878, when the Relief Soci-
ety was organized into a stake capacity, and
she was called to fill the position of first coun-
selor to President Harriet A. Snow. She was
also called to preside over the Relief Society
of the First Ward on the same day, the latter
position she filled with honor for over 20 years,
gaining the love and esteem of all her sisters
and co-laborers.
	She continued as counselor until President
Harriet A. Snow’s death, in 1890, when she was
released from the stake board, but still con-
tinued as president of the First Ward, until
Nov. 13th, 1898, when she was appointed Pres-
ident of Box Elder Stake Relief Society, after
the death of President Olivia Widerborg. This
position she held until the time of her death.
	Sister Boothe was a true Latter-day Saint,
firm in her convictions of what was right. She
was always prompt, energetic and an indefatig-
able worker. She never disappointed in one
single instance when called to a duty. She was
charitable towards all, had a cheery disposi-
tion, and always met her friends with a smile.
She was a noble character, and her memory
will live long in the minds of those who knew
and loved her.
	From her co-workers,
		Emelia D. Madsen, First Counselor.
		Emeline P. Watkins, Second Counselor.
		Mary J. Harding, Assistant Counselor.
		Annie H. Leatherwood, Secretary.
		Rose H. Neeley, Asst. Secretary.
		Lula B. Call, Corresponding Secretary.
		Fanny Graehl, Treasurer.
		Ada N. Madsen, Organist.
		Lizzie Wright, Chorister.


