[Column 1]
		A TENDER TRIBUTE.
	To the memory of Brother Jenkinson,
one of Salt Lake’s most remarkable men,
and hundreds of its inhabitants will mourn
his loss, and he will live in their memories
as long as life lasts. 
	He was born at Lonsdale, Rhode Island,
December 18, 1851, of pious parentage,
and he could say with Cowper—

	“Be this my boast and pride,
	The child of parents passed into the skies.”

	His early training imbued him with a
high religious nature. He was a lover of
theology and philosophy, and his many
years of blindness rendered him a great
thinker on these lines. In fact, I may say
he lived in a world where his mental vision
made many things plain to him, which we
with our physical vision could not attain to.
	He was a firm believer in telepathy and
the power of kindred spirits, conveying
their thoughts to others, whose minds and
natures were attuned to receive the im-
pressions much in the same way as wire-
less telegraphy is conveyed.
	Although miles away he was capable of
receiving the thoughts of friends, and in-
stantly replying to them through the tele-
phone, saying, “I was just thinking of you,
relative to such a subject, what is your im-
pression or idea of it, and the reply would
invariably be in accordance with his own
ideas.
	In a fast meeting in the Twentieth Ward,
he said: “I am not going to speak, but I
am impressed there is a person in this room
who wants comfort, and to her or him I
am speaking.”
	At the next fast meeting a woman rose
and said she had prayed before going, that

[Column 2]
somebody would say something that would
comfort her in the way she needed, and a
blind man stood up and spoke direct to her.
	He was a lover of animals and flowers,
and especially of birds.
	He dined at my house on the Sunday
before he died, and sitting half dosing in
an easy chair he suddenly said, “Sister
Francis, I have been listening to those
little birds [meaning my canaries] I have
been noticing their change of tones as the
sun declines. It is a low whisper they are
singing now, quite different to the full notes
of the afternoon. And the parrot—I should
like to study that bird, and find out what
amount of intelligence it has! It certainly
connects actions with words. When you
go to the phone he says, ‘Hello, it’s Polly,’
and when you open the outer door, he says,
‘Good-bye.’”
	When the sun was setting, which on that
night was particularly beautiful, Mrs. Jen-
kinson described it to him and he drank in
every word, and in his mental vision he saw
it all, and said, “Is there any dark cloud
on the horizon, or how is it?” We ex-
plained there was not any cloud, how it
shaded from pale sea green to the deepest
blue, and the beauty of the orange and red
tints with the grey and blue, and he thor-
oughly enjoyed it and remarked afterwards,
how he had enjoyed the quiet and the spir-
it of the home.
	A favorite poem of his was—

	“Life I know not what thou art,
	But I know that Thou and I must part.”

It ends with these words—

	“‘Tis hard to part when friends are dear,
	Perhaps t’will call a sigh a tear,
	Then steal away, give little warning,
	Choose thine own time, say not Good-night—
	But in some brighter clime
	Bid me Good-morning.”

	As if this wish were gratified, He was
stricken coming out of the theatre, where
he had taken his blind comrades of the
workshop for the blind, and on his arrival
at home, which he reached with great diffi-
culty, he suddenly became speechless and
passed away at 11:45 that night. He leaves
a wife and six sons and a married daugh-
ter. He always spoke in loving and grate-
ful terms of his dear wife’s devotion to him,
and of the goodness of all his children.
There is nothing to grieve for in his demise
except that we have lost a friend.
	He has obtained a well-earned rest, and
we cannot doubt has heard the, well done
faithful servant. I esteem it an honor that
I may sign myself.
			One of his friends,
						M. F.


