ter singing and prayer a vote was taken

[Column 2]
to know if all were satisfied with each sis-
ter present, and willing to acknowledge 
them in good fellowship and admit them 
to all the privileges of the institution about 
to be organized. All being satisfied, the 
names of those present were taken as fol-
lows:
	Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A.
Cowles, Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann 
Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook, Desdemona 
Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah M. 
Kimball, Elizabeth Jones, Leonora Taylor, 
Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Packard, Bathsheba 
W. Smith, Sophia Robinson, Philinda Her-
rick, Phebe M. Wheeler, Sophia R. Marks.
	President Smith then explained some of 
the duties that would devolve on members 
of the Society, said they could provoke the 
brethren to good works, look after the 
needs of the poor, and perform charitable 
acts. 
	Women must assist in correcting the mor-
als, and strengthening the virtues of the 
community. Said it is now in order for the 
sisters to elect a President to preside over 
the Society and let her choose two coun-
selors to assist in the duties of her office. 
He would ordain them and let them pre-
side just as the Presidency preside over 
the Church, and if they needed his instruc-
tion, they could ask and he would be pleased 
to give it from time to time. Let the Pres-
idency serve as a constitution and their de-
cisions become precedent for you to act
upon.
	If officers are wanted to carry out the
designs of the institution, let them be ap-
pointed and set apart as Teachers, Deacons, 
etc., are among us.
	Elizabeth A. Whitney moved and So-
phia Packard seconded the motion that Em-
ma Smith be elected President of the So-
ciety, the vote was put by the chairman 
and pronounced unanimous.
	The President Elect made choice of Sar-
ah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney as her counselors.
	Eliza R. Snow was appointed secretary, 
and Phebe M. Wheeler assistant secretary, 
and Elvira A. Cowles, treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith read the revela-
tion to Emma Smith, from the Book of 
Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that 
she had been ordained at the time the reve-
lation was given to expound the Scriptures 
to teach, etc. He then read Scriptures to 
show that an elect lady is one elected to 
preside.
	By request of President Joseph Smith, 
Apostle John Taylor ordained Sarah M. 
Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney to be 
counselors and assist President Emma
Smith in the duties of her office and share 
in the blessings pertaining thereto.
	He then confirmed on Emma Smith her 
former ordination, and blessed her to be a 
mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue, and 
to possess all the qualifications necessary 
to enable her to preside with dignity and 
give such instruction as may be requisite 
in her calling as an Elect Lady.
	Elder Taylor vacated the chair and Em-

[Column 3]
ma Smith and her counselors took the stand. 
	A lengthy discussion followed on the 
question, “What shall this Society be 
called?” Mrs. Cleveland and Whitney ad-
vocated the appropriateness of the name Re-
lief Society. John Taylor and Joseph 
Smith spoke in favor of the word Benevo-
lent. Emma Smith and E. R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice. 
The gentlemen withdrew their objection and 
a motion to adopt the name Relief Society 
was unanimously carried. 
	President Joseph Smith then said, “I now 
declare this Society organized with Presi-
dent and counselors. All who shall here-
after be admitted must be free from cen-
sure and admitted by vote. President Jo-
seph Smith laid down a five dollar gold 
piece to commence a Relief Society fund, 
and said, “What I do hereafter for char-
ity I shall do through this Society.” Sarah
M. Cleveland gave 12 1/2 cents; Sarah M. 
Kimball, $1.00; Emma Smith, $1.00; Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, 50 cents; Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00; John Taylor, $2.00.
	At the third meeting of the Society, 
March 31st, President Joseph Smith said 
the members of the Society must act in 
concert, or nothing can be accomplished. 
To move according to the ancient order of 
the priesthood this must be a select So-
ciety, separate from the evils of the world.
	Sixth meeting, April 28th, said he was 
present to speak upon the Priesthood as 
his instructions were intended only for 
members of the Society, he wished those 
not members to withdraw. After which 
he called attention to the 12th chapter of 
Corinthians, “Now concerning spiritual 
gifts,” etc., said the passage which reads, 
“No man can say that Jesus is the Lord 
but by the Holy Ghost should be trans-
lated, “No man knows,” etc. Continued the 
reading of the chapter, and gave instruc-
tions respecting the different offices and the 
necessity of every individual acting in the 
place allotted to him or her, and filling the 
office to which they were appointed.
	Spoke of the disposition of some to con-
sider the lower offices in the Church dis-
honorable and to look with jealous eyes on 
the position of others; said it was the non-
sense of the human heart, to aspire to posi-
tions not appointed of God, that it was bet-
ter for individuals to magnify their respec-
tive callings and wait patiently till God 
shall say to them, “Come up higher.” Said 
it was talked by members of the Society 
that some were not doing right in laying 
hands on the sick. If they had common 
sympathy, they would rejoice that the sick 
could be healed. The time had not been 
before when these things could be in their 
proper order. The Church is not now or-
ganized in its proper order and cannot be 
until the temple is completed. He referred
to the commission given to the ancient 
apostles, “Go ye into all the world,” no 
matter who believes these signs, such as 
healing the sick, casting out devils, should 
follow all that believe, whether male or fe-
male.


