WOMAN’S STORE.
	Preliminary steps have been taken to-
wards the establishment of a Woman’s 
Store in this city at an early date. A call
was made through some of the daily papers 
for a meeting to be held on Friday, Novem-
ber 28, at 11 a.m. in the Fourteenth Ward
assembly rooms, for the transaction of im-
portant business. The call was signed by
Mesdames M. Isabella Horne and E. B.
Wells. The meeting was held as per ap-
pointment, Mrs. M. I. Horne Chairman and
Mrs. Emma G. Bull, Secretary.  The sub-
ject of starting a Woman’s Store and its
advantages was plainly stated first by the


Chairman of the meeting and afterwards by
Mrs. Caroline C. Raleigh, Mrs. Zina D. 
H. Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Dr E S Bar-
ney and others The shares were placed at
$5.00 each and quite a number of ladies
came forward and took shares in the enter-
prise. It is distinctly understood that this is
not a benevolent undertaking, but positively
a business transaction under the direction
and immediate supervision of reliable wom-
en, although it will doubtless be a good in-
vestment for means belonging to the Relief
Society in its several branches, and other
like Associations, much better than allowing
the money to lie idle. 
	Another meeting was held at the office
of the Woman’s Exponent today, Decem-
ber 1st, at which further business was trans-
acted and committees called for purchasing
goods, etc., who are actively engaged in the
movement, it is expected the store will be
opened on Saturday 13th or the Monday
following at latest. 
	In connection with this commendable, en-
terprise it is expected there will soon be
dressmaking, millinery and hair-dressing
departments in which young girls may be
trained in these active industrial employ-
ments. The management will be in the
hands of women acquainted with business
principles, consequently there is little need
of uncertainty about its success as a safe in-
vestment for capital. 
	Those desiring to take shares can pay
them at the store and receive receipts for
their money until certificates of shares can
be issued. The name under which this en-
terprise will be known is “The Woman’s
Co-operative Mercantile and Manufacturing
Institution,” situated opposite the City Hall,
at 123 E. First South Street.—Republished
from Woman’s Exponent of December 1,
1900.


