[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | September | Issue: 8 | Title: SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting was held
in the 14th Ward Assembly rooms, Aug. 18,
1888, Mrs.M. Isabella Horne presiding.  Singing,
"O My Father," etc. Prayer by Mrs. How-
ard.  Singing, "O say what is Truth," etc.
	President Horne addressed the audience
Hoping all were well; was very thankful to 
see them all again; had been very successful
while abroad in getting her records; had a very 
interesting experience by being able to meet
many who were interested in hearing about
the Gospel.  Had traveled 15,000 miles; met
many gentlemen and ladies,a very few ignorant
persons were rude and impolite. 
	"I also met many of the Saints.  I hope I
have sown some seed that will bring forth 
good fruit.  I visited an Industrial school


while in Liverpool which I very much ad-
mired for it is proving a great blessing to 1,000
little waifs who have no parents;  they are
taken good care of and taught different trades
that will help them to become useful members
to society.  I am very thankful that it is as 
well with us as it is.  I hope we will acknowl-
edge God in all things.  I pray you may all 
enjoy the blessings of God on you and that
you may have peace and the Spirit of God.
	Mrs. Silver sang  "We thank thee O God 
for a Prophet" etc.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor.  "I had perfect confi-
dence in the blessing that was promised on
Mrs. Horne before she left by one of the Apos-
tles; I felt all would be well with her; she was
ignorant of our doctrines and way of living as
there are.  We hope that many who are in in-
tense darkness in the world will yet be brought
to the light of the Gospel.  The gifts we have
are from our Heavenly Father.  Let us be
humble and faithful and overcome self, and 
bring ourselves into perfect subjection to the
will of God.  I hope we will try and live by
the light of the Spirit of God."
	Mrs. Watmongh.  "We are thankful that
Sister Horne has come home in safety.  I have 
an idea that all our testimonies are recorded
above and they are accepted by the Lord, and 
the better it will be for us thereafter the more
we bear.  May the Lord keep us faithful."
	Mrs. H. M. Whitney.  "I also feel to rejoice
over sister Horne's safe return.  The Lord
helped me to come to meeting to-day.  I plead
continually for the youth of Zion that they
may be kept in the ways of the Lord.  Many
will keep the faith, but some will sell their
birthright for a mess of pottage.  May God
help our young men and young women to learn
the ways of God and walk therein."
	Sister Jane Perkins: "I know this is the work
of God and I rejoice in it continually, and
may God keep us safe to our religion." 
Mrs. B. W. Smith.  "Do good to our
neighbor; keep the Sabbath day holy; attend
to our prayers; walk in the path of duty."
	Mrs. Dr. Barney.  "How do we know which
is the true church?  By the signs which follow
the believer.  We know by the scriptures be-
ing fulfilled in our day and in our church."
	Mrs. H. C. Young.  "We rejoice that we 
can read and understand the scriptures as they
are written.  The greatest knowledge we can
have is to understand the ways of the Lord
and the law of God is true learning." 
	Mrs. Stevenson spoke a short time very in-
terestingly concernimg her visit to England
and fullfillment of prophecy.
	A letter was read asking for assistance to
emigrate a family from England. 
	Mrs. Horne said a few words in closing. 
Singing "Praise to the Man," ect.  Benedic-
tion by Mary Silver.                         E H.


[Column 1]
