[Column 2]
the entrance of women into the various
spheres of activity and usefulness.
	It is the boast of the age that woman has
achieved fame and renown beyond the high-
est expectations of woman herself, or even
of the men who are liberal-minded in their
ideas and ideals of womanhood.
	Women astronomers have made discov-
eries in the science that have astonished men
who have been engaged for years in that
direction; women artists have been more
successful than heretofore and their work
is found to be more true to life.
	To be sure many women, as well as men,
think only of women as industrial workers
along mediocre lines; and when they ac-
tually compete with men, it is rather appall-
ing and some are not willing that women
should stand side by side with men.
	It is most wonderful what women have
done and the avenues that have opened for
the progressive advancement of heroic en-
deavor.
	To enumerate only a few of the many
who have accomplished great things would
be impossible in our little paper. In our
own small state there are hundreds of wom-
en that should be mentioned, but one gets
discouraged, in writing, to find that all can-
not be mentioned, therefore only those who
stand out apart from all others because of
some one achievement could possibly be
named. Even to mention a few rare in-
stances would be too much, but it is a matter
for thought and a subject never to be elim-
inated from the pages of history of the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries.
	There have been great women even in
ancient times that stand out singly and
rank side by side if not equal with men of
the same period. Certainly we, in these
last days, are not the beginners, but where
they singly may have been able to do much,
we who are organized are able to accom-
plish much more. A few women in the
past have led armies to battle, but in this
more highly civilized age things are vastly
different—organizations of women are pro-
moters of peace. The forces under the
control of women lead to higher civiliza-
tion and enlightenment.
	Of course women are anxious for better
advantages and especially for the better-
ment of the home. Today the nations of
the world stand for better government and
for domestic purity and culture beginning
in the home—and who can declare that
homes are not better and cleaner and purer
than they were in olden times?
	There are no real homes without moth-
ers and therefore the more perfect our
mothers in all lands, the nobler the children
are brought up and trained. Although there
are associations, schools and colleges where
women may receive special training, there
is nevertheless a vast number of untrained
and unskilled women who need attention
and this class is not so easily reached, and
perhaps the time will never come when all
that is desirable will be accomplished.
	After the organization of the Relief So-
ciety in the far west the women of the east
held a convention at Seneca Falls, where
the great army of suffragists were enthused
to enter the ranks and ask for the ballot,
believing it to be the best method of uplift-
ing the home.
	Among those great leaders who convened
on that momentous occasion were women
who afterwards devoted their entire lives,
as it were, to the uplifting of women and


they were modest Quakers who, without
money or powerful influence to aid the en-
franchisement, entered into the field of ac-
tion and worked their way upward and for-
ward. These women had the sublime cour-
age of their convictions, and were sustained,
when opposition was strong and powerful,
and even when persecution was cruel andmerciless. Among these great leaders of
this unpopular cause were women whose
names will stand on history’s pages forever
because of their indomitable courage and
work for humanity: Lucretia Mott, Susan
B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy
Stone, and many more.
	All over the civilized world the awaken-
ing of women has not only been noticeable,
but astounding. The great cause is moving
forward and a multitude are entering the
ranks; the world is becoming better, be-
cause the advanced education of women
means the higher civilization of the entire
globe. It means better homes and sur-
roundings and with all better lives are
higher anticipations, better conditions in the
state and nation and progress everywhere.
	Those who live today are to be congratu-
lated on living in these more propitious
times. In the professions what magnificent
advances have been made! We all know
how gentle and soothing is the touch of a
woman’s hand in sickness or in accident,
and helpfulness in the art of administering
to the sick and suffering, the dead and dy-
ing has been brought almost to perfection.
Florence Nightingale and Clara Barton
and scores of others pioneered the way
in this profession and even though we
should live to overcome all the ailments that
flesh is heir to in this world, still there are
accidents and always death while in this
mortal state. Not only have women in civ-
ilized lands felt the power of the woman’s
era, but in far-off oriental lands there
has come a vast change for higher thought;
a newer life of active service for the race
and especially for womankind.
	Punditta Ramabai has perhaps more than
any other led the way in India and created
an atmosphere of change of custom, that
must yet prove a blessing to many thou-
sand East Indian races. One reform already
achieved is that they cannot abuse young
widows as hitherto. One cannot contem-
plate these old traditions without horror.
	We might go on telling these significant
cases but it is only necessary to touch the
spring and each one who reads will think of
a hundred others of these immortal work-
ers who have sown the seed here and there
which will ripen into immeasurable fields of
bloom and scatter and produce new prod-
ucts to redeem the race.
	But to return to the beginning of this ar-
ticle: until the dawn of the new light that
came by revelation in this, the last dispen-
sation, awakening forces had not yet
operated in the way of woman’s enlighten-
ment and public advance.
	The key of knowledge was turned for
women and the darkness that had overshad-
owed the world began to disappear; like
rays of sunshine is has flooded the earth,
entered into the dark corners of the mind
and created a new era of intelligence that
will eventually be the uplifting of women
and the redemption of the world.

	The total number of women in the world
who now enjoy some measure of suffrage
is estimated at 15,514,647.


