MARY STEVENSON CLARK.
	On November 24, 1911, there died in
Farmington one of the noblest of the no-
ble band of pioneer women—Mrs. Mary
Stevenson Clark. A lonely feeling comes
as the ranks are thinned by the passing of
these brave spirits.
	Mrs. Clark was born in Gibraltar, Aug-
ust 29, 1825, where her father was in the
employ of the British government. When
she was a small child the family emigrated
to Albany, New York, where they resided
for a time. Later they moved westward,
continuing their journey at intervals until
they arrived in Utah. When she was a
child but five years of age the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was or-
ganized, and the little girl was baptized a
few years later. She passed through the
mobbings, sufferings and hardships inci-
dent to the early years of Church history.
A mob at one time made a raid upon the
home of her family, ejecting the people,
helping themselves to the contents of the


house, and taking all the clothes except
what were being worn. Her feet were bare
and they were cut and bleeding on the
rough and frozen ground.
	On May 18, 1845, she was married to
Ezra T. Clark. They came to Utah and
settled in Davis county in 1848, moving to
Farmington, April 3, 1850, where Mrs.
Clark lived for over sixty years. On May
18, 1895, Mr. and Mrs. Clark celebrated
their golden wedding. It was made a mem-
orable occasion by the gathering of friends
from different parts of Utah and from Cal-
ifornia and Illinois. Mr. Clark died Oct.
17, 1901.
	Mrs. Clark was the mother of eleven
children, seven of whom, all sons, survive
her. Amasa L. Clark, ex-mayor of Farm-
ington, is her youngest child. The late
Elder Edward Stevenson, who opened the
Church mission in Gibraltar and who was
known throughout the Church for his long
years of missionary work at home as well
as abroad, was her brother. Another broth-
er, James Stevenson of Farmington, over
81 years of age, is the last surviving mem-
ber of that family.
	The old Clark homestead was noted for
its hospitality, friends and even strangers
receiving the same kindly greetings accord-
ed to all the members of that large family.
Mrs. Clark’s characteristics were pa-
tience, unbounded charity in speaking of
others, and devotion to her religion. For
over twenty years she was a counselor to
President Susan Grant of the Davis Stake
Relief Society, and in every way she was a
consistent Latter-day Saint.
	Her funeral took place at Farmington,
November 28, 1911. The speakers were
President F. M. Lyman, Wm. V. Haight,
Sisters Susan Grant and Aurelia S. Rog-
ers, Wm. L. Rich of the Bear Lake Stake
presidency, Stake President J. H. Grant and
Bishop Robinson. Opening and closing
prayers were offered by President James A.
Eldredge and Edward I. Rich, and music
was furnished by the ward choir. The
house was filled to overflowing, and the
floral tributes were many and beautiful. The
grave was dedicated by her son, Bishop W.
W. Clark of Montpelier.
