RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		TETON STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the Te-
ton Stake was held at Driggs, Jan. 21, 1912.
Counselor M. H. Price presiding. Presi-
dent D. C. Driggs and Counselor J. D. Kil-
pack and a number of High Councilors and
Bishops were present, also officers and mem-
bers of the Stake Board.
	Meeting opened at 10 a. m. with singing
“Come, Come, ye Saints.”
	Prayer by Sister Sophia Rigby.
	Singing, “O, Say, What is Truth?”
	Address of welcome given by Sister H.
E. Stevens.
	Congregation sang, “We Thank Thee, O
God.”
	Victor Ward was reported by President
Amy Cherry, showed the Society alive to
their work.
	Solo by Julia Cherry of Victor.
	Sister Martha Little, supervisor of Gos-
pel work, said the sisters were taking a great
interest in the study of the Gospel. Coun-
selor Sarah A. Hulet reported the Driggs
ward in a flourishing condition. President
D. C. Driggs was pleased to be at this con-
ference, to get a glimpse of what is being
done by the sisters. Urged mothers to study
the Gospel that they may teach it to their
children.
	Duet by James and Effie Rigby.
	Elder J. D. Kilpack congratulated the sis-
ters on the works of charity that were be-
ing done. Also approved of the method of
storing their grain in the elevators.
	Closed by singing, “Nay, Speak No Ill.”
	Benediction by Mary E. Hulet.
	Afternoon session.—Opening exercises,
singing and prayer.
	On the stand were Stake Counselors J.
D. Kilpack and George S. Young, also six
members of the High Council and nine of
the Bishopric. All the Stake Board were
present except the president, Susie M. Wil-
son, who is away for the winter.
	Sister M. H. Price gave a report of the
work that is being done by the Stake Board.
	Piano duet by Larkin Price and Ethel-
win Griggs.
	Elder H. M. Warner gave an address on
“What Women are to This Age.”
	Duet by Sisters Ethel Butler and Ella
Rigby.
	Address, “What this Age is to Women,”
was given by Geo. S. Young.
	Trio by H. M. Warner, David Smith and
James Rigby. A talk upon “The Value of
Franchise,” was given by Sister Tacy Bux-
ton.
	Solo by Effie Beesley.
	Conference closed by singing, “Down by
the river’s verdant side.”
	Benediction by Sister Josephine Nielson.


We not only enjoyed a spiritual feast, but
a temporal was also enjoyed. All were in-
vited to partake of refreshment served in
the Stake office, and social greetings were
in order.
			MARY E. HULET, Stake Sec.


