[Column 2]
notable men of the day. As a father he was
gentle, tender and companionable, his chil-
dren adored him. His daughter Mamie very
lovingly describes their home evenings, tell-
ing how her father sang and danced and
acted with his family like a child himself.
Dickens was not kindly disposed towards
other lands than his own, so as a traveler
he was not above criticism. Always ready to
criticize others, he was a Britisher through
and through. He made two trips to Amer-
ica and was received both times with open
arms and the greatest enthusiasm by the
American people, but after his return from
his first American tour, he very harshly and,
the Americans felt, unjustly criticized both
the country, the people and their customs.
Still he himself says that on his American
trip he felt nearer to being famous than ever
in his life; when on the street he was
stopped by a lady who said, “Mr. Dickens,
will you let me touch the hand that has
filled my house with many friends?”
	Dickens went on the continent for change
and rest many times, and began the writing
of some stories there, but was never able to
complete them there, saying that he missed
the numbers on the houses, the throngs of
people and other things that London pro-
vided and it seemed it was there among the
smoke and noise that he gathered the char-
acter studies which his genius portrayed.
Throughout his life Dickens had a great
fondness for the stage and many have won-
dered that he did not follow the profession
for he had undoubted ability in that line and
often appeared in amateur performances,
and in later life when he traveled through
the provinces and to American and gave read-
ings from his own work he charmed the
public with his readings and it is said he
made more money in that way than in writ-
ing. His work was increasing and he died,
as he had said he wished to, in the harness;
for it was while writing “The Alystery of
Edwin Drood,” in his fifty-ninth year. He
was buried quietly and privately as he had
wished in the Poets’ Corner in Westminster
Abbey, close to the monuments of Shake-
speare, Chaucer and Dryden.
	Dean Stanley, in speaking in Westminster
said: “He whom we mourn was the friend
of mankind, a philanthropist in the true
sense, the friend of youth, the friend of the
poor, the enemy of every form of meanness
and oppression. No English writer save
possibly Shakespeare, has drawn so many
characters that have become household
words.” Characterization was his chiefest
gift, whilst plot was his great weakness.
Most novelists find first a plot and weave
the story around it, bringing forth charac-
ters to aid and develop the story, while
Dickens’s books are almost entirely without
plot. Some critics claim that the lack of
plot is probably due to the fact that his nov-
els were published in serial form and as the
issues appeared he found new subjects and
characters; at any rate it was his way and
a true genius has to have a way all his own.
To some readers the lack of plot is very
acceptable, for one can pick up a novel of
Dickens and turn to almost any chapter and
be amused or touched just as the subject
may be; especially is this true of “Pick-
wick.” For instance, it is not at all neces-
sary to read the whole book to enjoy any-
thing so amusing as Sam Weller’s Valen-
tine, or Pickwick’s trial in the suit for dam-
ages by Mrs. Bardell, or Mr. Winkle’s

[Column 3]
elopement; in fact, if you are ever very tired
and somewhat depressed in spirit, pick up
“Pickwick” and read a few paragraphs—it
will certainly dispel the blues. He was a
master in every line—tragedy, pathos, com-
edy and farce. For tragedy read “Oliver
Twist;” for pathos, “Dombey and Son,”
“Little Dorrit” and “The Old Curiosity
Shop;” for farce, “Pickwick.” In descrip-
tive narrative Dickens has no equal. It is
sometimes said of him that his characters are
caricatures and that he greatly exagger-
rates everything; yet to draw caricatures is
a fine art of which one might well be proud.
That he exaggerated greatly is doubtful; he
had a keen perception of eccentricity and the
genius to draw it. The remark is often
made when some queer character is seen,
“How Dickens could have described him!”
As a matter of fact human life has many
phases, but there are few geniuses to por-
tray it. Another criticism of his work is
that he had few or no good women char-
acters. True, there are not many of the
heroic kind such as Shakespeare and Scott
portray; but for true womanliness there are
many, Bella Wilfer and Lizzie Hexam in
“Our Alutual Friend,” Agnes and Dora and
poor unfortunate Emily in “David Copper-
field.” That he drew his characters from
people he knew is well known, and “David
Copperfield,” his own favorite book, is found
to be almost a reproduction of his own life.
As his father is the original of Wilkins Mic-
awber, so is his mother the original of Mrs.
Nickleby, and again she seems to appear as
Mrs. Wilfer in “Our Alutual Friend”—not
an exaggerated character either, a woman
with some education and position, finding
herself in reduced circumstances naturally
resents anything like patronage from the
newly rich Mr. and Mrs. Boffin, especially
when she feels their wealth is obtained at
the expense of her daughter’s misfortune;
yet for two lovable, whole-hearted, inno-
cent-minded dear creatures commend me to
Mr. and Mrs. Boffin.
	Dickens was truly one of the world’s
great characters himself. We love the man
through his works, and his works through
the man. 					A. W. C.


