BEAR RIVER STAKE.
	The Bear River Stake Relief Society con-
ference convened at Garland Thursday, Jan.
11, 1912, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., President
Julia A. Richards presiding.
	General Relief Society President Emme-
line B. Wells and Sister Edna May Davis,
members of the general board, both of Salt
Lake City, and Sister Emelia D. Madsen of
Brigham City were present. The Stake
Presidency, four high councilors, four bish-
ops, two counselors and nine members of
the Relief Society Stake board were in at-
tendance.
	After opening exercises, remarks were
made by President Julia A. Richards, who
also read a summary of the work done in
the Stake since its organization in 1908 up
to Dec. 31, 1911. A financial report of the
stake was read by Treasurer Alice S. Lar-
son and duly accepted. The other speakers
of the forenoon session were Sisters Emelia
Madsen, Edna May Davis and our beloved
President Emmeline B. Wells, to hear
whom was indeed a great privilege, enjoyed
by all.
	At the close of forenoon session Coun-
selor Esther Evans stepped forward and
called the congregation to order, and stated
that Sister Celesta Hunsaker had something
she desired to say in behalf of the Relief
Societies of the Stake. In a few well chosen
words she presented President Julia A.
Richards with a beautiful toilet set. Pres-
ident Richards responded, expressing her
appreciation for the sisters’ manifestations
of love.
	At the conclusion of the meeting the con-
gregation was given the privilege of shak-
ing hands with President E. B. Wells.
	During noon hour lunch was served to
all present.
	At the afternoon session, after opening
exercises, Sister Eva J. Lillywhite gave a
very interesting talk on the subject of
“Home Work for Little Folks.”
	On account of President Richards moving
from this stake to Brigham City, she was
honorably released as President of stake
Relief Society with a hearty vote of thanks
for her faithful and efficient labors, and Sis-
ter Margaret W. Manning, who has acted
as stake secretary since the organization of
the stake, was unanimously accepted to fill
the vacancy, with Sisters Esther C. Evans
and Effie I. Welling as her counselors. The
position of stake secretary will be filled later
on.  All the board members remain the
same with the exception of Sister Eva J.
Lillywhite, who was honorably released, ow-
ing to other duties.
	The conference was then addressed by
Stake President Milton H. Welling, Sister
Edna M. Davis and President E. B. Wells,
encouraging the sisters in the performance
of their duties and the great blessings en-
joyed in the Relief Society work.
	After singing and benediction, conference
adjourned for six months.
	At the close of conference, Brother D. E.
Manning took the visiting sisters, in com-
pany with some of the stake officers, for a
drive to the sugar factory, then back to the
Garland library. They were shown through
the library, and Sister Wells expressed her-
self as being much pleased with the efforts
of the library board in establishing such a
well-kept and nicely-equipped library.
		MARGARET W. MANNING,
							Secretary.


