[Column 1]
GREETINGS AND CONGRATULATIONS.
	Beloved Sisters and Co-laborers: —
	We desire again in the new year that has
just begun to extend to one and all, officers,
teachers and members of the Relief Society
throughout the world, a heartfelt and loving
greeting, and to express our appreciation of
your labors in the great and grand organi-
zation.
	There is no limit to the work of charity
in the Relief Society. It is a daily and an
hourly occupation, of mind and body. How
to manage affairs so as to deal with all kinds
of people and all sort of cases that come up;
with sickness in its various forms, and death
also with needy families who not only have
to be supplied but also taught in many in-
stances how to manage, especially mothers
who do not understand economy in the
home; all this is not simply giving, it is
both learning and teaching what is best to
do under all varieties of circumstances.
	We are aware of your diligence and faith-
fulness, and know that you will make any
effort possible tending to further develop-
ment, spiritually and mentally. No more
possible effort could be made than has al-
ready been accomplished, among the sick,
the destitute. The charity that “giveth lib-
erally and upbraideth not,” our sisters mani-
fest day by day; they are diligent in search-
ing out the needy and relieving their wants;
uplifting the fallen and saving from the
powers of evil those who are tempted to go
into by and forbidden paths.
	We commend your labors in all good
works, and we are assured of the many sac-
rifices you must necessarily make to perform
these noble acts of charity and benevolence;
and we pray that you may realize abundant
blessings in your own households and joy
and satisfaction in your own souls that will
give you peace of mind to more than com-
pensate for all that you do.
	One of the missions given this society by
the prophet Joseph Smith himself, was to
save souls; and if we can succeed in per-
suading the thoughtless and wayward to
turn from evil, and repent and reform, we
shall have accomplished a most desirable ob-
ject; to rescue them from error and lead
them to the truth is to earn the joy of saving
those that were lost and are found again.
	When we contemplate what our sisters
have done in a material way it is indeed
wonderful. The houses that have been built;
the granaries for the storing of wheat, be-
sides assisting the bishops in building meet-

