HOW THE BETSY ROSS FLAG WAS
			MADE.
	A rare collection of valuable historical
documents and relics, many of them faded
and frayed and all having played vital roles
in American history, is in the possession of
the Illinois Society of the Sons of the Amer-
ican Revolution, which maintains a library
and office at 30 North LaSalle street, Chi-
cago. Particularly interesting are the relics
that show the evolution of the American
flag, including reproductions of the first
American banner that floated on the Ameri-
can continent, and presenting all the links
in its development down to the more mod-
ern forms.
	The copy of the Betsy Ross flag which is
owned by the society was made in 1905 by
Rachel Albright, a granddaughter of Betsy
Ross, when she was over 92 years old. De-
scribing this and other relics in the posses-
sion of the society, James Edgar Brown
writes in the current issue of The Hamilto-
nian, official organ of the Hamilton Club of
Chicago:
	“In the latter part of May, 1776, General
Washington, accompanied by Colonel Geo.
Ross, a member of his staff, and by the
Hon. Robert Morris, the great financier of
the Revolution, called upon Mrs. Betsy Ross,
a niece of Colonel Ross. She was a young
and beautiful widow, only 24 years of age,
and known to be expert at needle-work.
They called to discuss with her the design
and manufacture of a national emblem, our
first starry flag. Up to this time almost
every regiment on sea and land had its own
particular flag, which fact often proved
most embarrassing to military officials.
	“Washington unfolded a paper on which
had been rudely sketched a plan of a flag of


thirteen stripes, with a blue field dotted with
thirteen stars. They talked over the plan
of this flag in detail, and Mrs. Ross noticed
that the stars which were sketched were
six-pointed, and suggested that they should
have five points. Washington admitted that
she was correct, but he preferred a star
that would not be an exact copy of that on
his coat of arms, and he also thought that
a six-pointed star would be easier to cut.
Mrs. Ross liked the five-pointed star, and
to show that they were easily cut she deftly
folded a piece of paper and with one clip
of her scissors unfolded a perfect star with
five points.
	“She set to work and the committee ap-
proved the finished flag. Mrs. Ross was
then instructed to procure all the bunting
possible in Philadelphia and make flags for
the use of Congress, Colonel Ross furnish-
ing the money.
	“The resolution adopting the flag was not
passed by Congress until the following year
and is dated June 14, 1777. A month pre-
vious, however, there is a record of an order
on the treasury in favor of Betsy Ross for
£14 12s and 2d, in payment of flags for the
fleet in the Delaware River.”


