ORGANIZED CHARITY.
	When one considers the large number of
societies and organizations working along
charity lines, it is almost impossible to be-
lieve that any family or person within reach
of these organizations could be in want.
Volumes have been written lately of the
wonderful success of organized charity, all
showing how much more real help is given
in this way. Surely it ought to be a matter
of pride to the Latter-day Saints that their
own great organization, the Woman’s Re-
lief Society, was so far as known the pioneer
in organized charity in the world. On Mar.
17, 1912, this society will celebrate its 70th
anniversary; and during all those seventy
years the great thought of building up hu-
manity, of giving succor and comfort to the
poor, the sick, the down-hearted, has actu-
ated the hearts of that great body of women
who compose its membership. Quietly and
tenderly do they minister week in and week
out, following so far as possible the admo-
nition of the Savior not to let the right hand
know what the left hand doeth, but unsel-
fishly working day and night in this great
humane work.
	So much has been told to the public of
the dinners and assistance during the holi-
day season given through other organiza-
tions such as the Salvation Army, the Vol-
unteers, the Settlement society, the Ladies’


Aid, and others, that the general president
of the Relief Society thought she would
like to have an estimate of the work done
at that time by that part of her society
located in this city; and the following re-
ports were forwarded to her. As there are
sixty-two stakes in Zion, with a working
Relief Society in each, and as only five of
these are here reported, the readers of the
EXPONENT will be able to form some idea of
the great work done from the figures here
given:
	Granite Stake.—From reports handed in
from ten wards of this stake we compute
these totals: 175 Christmas boxes, valued
at $981; $709.30 in cash; 2,500 lbs. of flour,
1,800 lbs. of potatoes, besides clothing, slip-
pers, shawls for old ladies and 114 pairs of
blankets and quilts.
	Ensign Stake.—205 families supplied with
Christmas dinner; money given to each, also
a sack of flour, a bushel of potatoes, and a
monthly allowance.
	Liberty Stake.—Merchandise amounting
to $235.45, and cash, $206.40, was distrib-
uted among the poor at Christmas.
	Pioneer Stake.—Supplied 260 families
with Christmas dinners (chickens, roasts,
vegetables, candies and nuts); supplied fuel
and other necessities to the amount of $350,
and gave to six widows quilts and blankets.
	Salt Lake Stake.—In some of the wards
the bishopric have entire charge of the
work; in some wards the Relief Society as-
sists the bishopric, and in some wards the
Relief Society has entire charge of the
work. Where the latter was the case, the
donations were as follows: Cash, $731.67;
merchandise, $318.72; coal, 38 1/2 tons;
quilts, 12; besides this, considerable cloth-
ing and other sewing was done.
	We quote these figures as furnished, so
that people may know something of the
work of this organization. Of course, all
over the Church, in every stake of Zion, sim-
ilar work was done and still continues to be
done.
	May the Lord’s blessings attend these
noble workers!


