[Column 1]
and to the great delight of the lad, Charles
was allowed to again attend school. Here
he found more congenial companionship
than Bob Fagin and the boys of his earlier
acquaintance. Here also he proved him-
self apt, but what he learned in school life
does not appear to have affected his work
like his necessary labors did. He entered
as a clerk the office of Edward Blackmore,
an attorney of Grays Inn, with whom he
stayed about two years. His master re-
cords that several incidents took place in the
office of which he must have been a keen
observer, “as I recognized some of them in
his ‘Pickwick’ and ‘Nickleby’ and I am
much mistaken if some of his characters had
not their originals in persons I well remem-
ber.” In some way he mastered shorthand
and at the age of nineteen gained admit-
tance to the gallery of the House of Com-
mons reporting in succession for the True
Sun, the Mirror of Parliament, and the
Morning Chronicle. It was doubtless dur-
ing his days as a newspaper reporter that
he gained his intimate knowledge of coach-
ing days and coaching ways which so charm
the readers of “Pickwick.”
	In December, 1833, Dickens made his first
appearance in print in the pages of the Old
Monthly Magazine, with “A Dinner at Pop-
lar Walk,” afterwards included in Sketches
by Boz under the name “Mr. Minns and his
Cousin.” That first appearance in print was
a great day for the world, and for him, who
walked Westminster Hall “because his eyes
were so dimmed with joy and pride they
could not bear the street, and were not fit to
be seen there.”
	It is not necessary to go into detail con-
cerning the issuing of different articles in
different magazines and papers, but from
this time on Dickens multiplied his literary
contributions, though for a time he contin-
ued as a reporter. It was a memorable time
in Dickens’s career when he issued his first
book. It was “Sketches by Boz,” in two
volumes, and at the same time “Pickwick”
began to appear in monthly instalments.
	On April 2nd, 1836, Dickens married
Catharine Hogarth, from whom in later
years he separated. Mr. G. A. Sala de-
scribes Dickens’s personal appearance at this
time in the following graphic manner: “Go
to Maclise’s canvas and ponder over that ex-
quisite delineation of the young man with
the long, silky hair, the fascinating smile,
and the marvelous clear and inquiring eyes;
that was the Charles Dickens who, in high
satin stock and double breast pin, in glossy
frock coat and velvet collar, in cut velvet
waistcoat and glistening chain was in the
early days of Queen Victoria’s reign one of
the best looking and best dressed young fel-
lows about town.”
	With complete publication of the “Pick-
wick Papers” fame came to Dickens with
overwhelming suddenness and he undertook
more work than he could well carry out,
having begun “Oliver Twist” and “Nicholas
Nickleby;” so immediately leaped into high
popularity the lad who so few years before
had followed a menial employment in a
blacking warehouse. Few advances of for-
tune have been so rapid, and it is memorable
that Dickens’s fame and popularity never
ceased nor waned during his lifetime, and
wherever he traveled or lived he was always
sought after and admired.
	As a man he was generous and lovable,
counting among his dearest friends the most

