OGDEN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Ogden Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Relief Society Hall at Ogden,
Utah, on Thursday, Jan. 18, 1912, at 10
a. m. and 2 p. m.
	Luncheon was served during the noon
period, when hand-shaking and social con-
versation were indulged in.
	There were present of the brethren: Pres-
dent Thomas B. Evans, of the Stake Pres-
dency, Elijah A. Larkin of the High Coun-
cil, Bishop James Taylor and Elder Dodd.
President Charles C. Richards sent regrets
for unavoidable absence, with a hope for a
successful conference.
	In the absence of Stake President Sarah
M. Taylor, who was excused on account
of illness, Counselor Isabel Foulger pre-
sided, and conducted the exercises. Coun-
selor L. Letitia Richards, members of the
Stake Board and local officers were on the
stand and a goodly number of the sisters
were present.
	After the opening exercises and the gen-
eral routine of business, reports were given
by the local associations; these showed im-
provement in methods of work; each asso-
ciation holds weekly preparation meeting,
where officers and class teachers meet and
prepare their work for the meetings of the
association. Sacrament meetings are being
better attended by the sisters and punctu-
ality is increasing. All expressed interest
in the work and a desire to improve along
all lines. The sick and the poor are well
cared for and the aged are made to rejoice.
	“Suggestions for present and future de-
velopment” was a subject well handled by
Sister Nancy M. Ferrin of the Eden Ward.
She emphasized the opportunity for good of
the visiting teacher, but showed that poor
teaching was a waste of time and energy.
	President Evans thought the word to
teachers was timely; surely misdirected talk
is a waste of time; we must be progressive
and full of zeal if we are to make our in-
fluence felt for good among the people. It
is better to have a heavy eye than a sad
heart; better to wear out than to rust out,
providing the wearing out is in the service
of the Lord. His counsels were fraught
with wisdom and if carried out will cer-
tainly tend to our growth and development.
	Bishop Taylor showed how incompetent
we are to judge another; how weak and err-
ing our judgment; better to extend charity
and leave judgment to Him whose right it is
to judge.
	Councilor Larkin spoke on the proper
training of children and urged a closer
watchcare over them and more congenial
companionship with them.
	Temple and Genealogical work were
touched upon, also other topics pertaining
to Relief Society work. A good spirit was
enjoyed throughout the conference and we
trust the teachings given will be prolific of
good.
