years old, having been born in 1812. The
terrors of war having past, the world was
in the dawn of a new era or epoch of let-
ters, and one of the brightest literary con-
stellations that has ever lighted the world
appeared when Charles Dickens began his
career. There were Scott, Thackeray, For-
ster (Dickens’s greatest friend and biog-
rapher), Macready the actor, Thomas Car-
lyle, Lytton, Leigh Hunt, Dean Stanley,
George Henry Lewes, and many others.
	The years of Charles Dickens’s childhood
and early manhood were important in the
social history of the old world. They may
be said to mark the parting of the ways be-
tween the past age and the present. He be-
gan life when coaches were the quickest
means of transportation from one part of
the country to another; and yet he lived to
cross the Atlantic in a steamboat. In read-
ing Dickens’s writings it is well to remem-
ber these facts and to think of London, the
scene of most of his books, not as the Lon-
don of today with her wonderful under-
ground railways, her network of electric
contrivances for lighting and conveying
messages, the great river Thames with ex-
pansive bridges where the greatest shipping
of the world is carried on, and along whose
banks now is one of the most interesting
thoroughfares in the world, with statues,
obelisks, parks and palaces; but a great,
dark city with thousands of inhabitants
struggling for a livelihood in almost any
way that presented itself; advancing, cer-
tainly, but the great genius of invention had
not discovered itself when Dickens began
his literary career.
	So much of Charles Dickens’s personal
history is in his writings that it is well to
know something of the man himself.
	Charles John Huffam Dickens was born
on Friday, February 7, 1812, at Landport in
Portsea. His father, John Dickens, was a
clerk in the navy pay office, working at this
time in the Portsmouth dock yard; his
mother had been a Miss Elizabeth Barron. 
Of his father, a thriftless, luckless man, Dick-
ens always spoke with affectionate regard;
though it is well known he was the model
for the famous character Micawber. To his
mother, who apparently misunderstood him,
and yet to whom he owed all he had of early
education, he seldom referred. He was by
no means an only nor a favored child, being
the second in a family of eight children.
After a short residence in London, when
Charles was between four and five years old
the family moved to Chatham, where many
strong impressions were made upon his
mind, even though so young, and which in
some ways are marked in his later life and
works. It was here he first learned to read,
having been taught by his mother. He was
fond of reading, fond of dreaming and his
father’s library, which though not large pos-
sessed some rather fine books, was Dickens’s

[Column 3]
delight. He cared little for games and out-
door sports, and was a rather small and deli-
cate child. The books he read, and whose
characters he afterwards lived and acted,
were, “Tom Jones,” “Roderick Random,”
“Peregrine Pickle,” “Humphrey Clinker,”
“The Vicar of Wakefield,” “Don Quixote,”
“Gil Bias,” “Robinson Crusoe,” and the
“Arabian Nights”—strange books for so
young a child, but he himself says in the
mouth of David Copperfield: “They did
me no harm, for whatever harm there was
in some of them was not there for me. I
knew nothing of it.”
	During the last two years at Chatham he
attended school; and when he was nine,
the family moved back to London. Now
began the sadness and trials of the boy’s life,
the memories of which he could never ef-
face nor the causes did he ever forgive; and
yet to this very time of trial for the little
fellow the world owes much, for it was
then he saw and learned the cruel side of
life; it was then his nature was so touched
with the lowly, the pathetic, even the crim-
inal side; it was then that he walked and
toiled among the poor, the unfortunate, the
cringing and the wicked, but possessed of
his God-given gifts of thoughtfulness, dis-
cernment, character study and a wonderful
mind. The people he met and the lessons
he learned in his sorrow have brightened
and delighted many hearts when pictured
and characterized by his most facile pen.
Of these days he himself writes: “I know
that I have lounged about the streets in-
sufficiently clad and unsatisfactorily fed. I
know that, but for the mercy of God, I might
easily have been, for any care that was taken
of me, a little robber or a little vagabond.”
	Through the adverse circumstances of his
parents he was compelled to go to work and
found employment pasting labels on boxes of
blacking. Trying to help his mother and
make the most he could out of a shilling a
day, exposed to everything painful and evil,
it is a wonder that his delicate body neither
succumbed to the privation and exposure
nor his character yielded to the evil influ-
ences; but Providence prevented either thing
happening, and instead his poverty actually
became the schoolmaster which produced
the great novelist. Yet the memories of
these days, while they provided many of his
best characters, were always painful to him,
and in later life he avoided the streets and
alleys that had been his early haunts; even
twenty-five years later he could only with
difficulty speak of those three years of his
apprenticeship in the shoe-blacking ware-
house, when his father, with the rest of the
family, were in Marshalsea—the debtor’s
prison. So blank were his evenings that at
last he remonstrated with his father and a
more suitable lodging was found for him
near Marshalsea, and in future days the
abode of Bob Sawyer.
	In 1824, when Charles Dickens was twelve
years old, through a small legacy and
the insolvent debtors’ act, John Dickens,
the father, was released from Marshalsea


