Hulda P. Young General Secretary-Treasurer On Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30, approximately 10,000 leaders of Relief Society from 396 stakes and 29 missions throughout the Church assembled in the Tabernacle on Temple Square and in nearby chapels for departmental sessions, to receive instruction, motivation, and inspiration to aid them in their respective callings in Relief Society. Representatives were in _ attendance from the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Switzerland, Germany, France, England, Scotland, Australia, New Zealand, and isles of the Pacific. At the opening session on Wednesday morning, upwards of 3,400 stake and mission leaders eagerly received the evaluation given by President Belle S. Spafford of the work of Relief Society during the past year, and important policy instruction to guide Relief Society in the months ahead. Inspiring reports were given by former leaders of the Southern Far East Mission and the Irish Mission, and the president of the new stake at Wellington, New Zealand. The universality and unity of the world-wide sisterhood of Relief Society resounded deeper in the hearts of those assembled as the St. Johns 894 Stake Singing Mothers, who provided the music for this session, sang most impressively, "One World." Elder Roy M. Darley was at the organ. Because of a meeting in the temple for all of the General Authorities, President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Harold B. Lee, advisors to Relief Society, were unable to address the opening session. Sister Jessie Evans Smith, however, read the inspirational message which had been prepared by her husband, President Smith, declaring the individual duty of each member to teach the gospel by precept and by example. Brother Roy W. Doxey, author of the current theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants, was invited to speak in place of Elder Lee. He gave an edifying discourse on the subject of testimony. Wednesday afternoon at the general session, heartfelt messages of encouragement, counsel, faith, and persuasion were given by President Spafford and her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, and by Sister Elna P. Haymond of the General Board. Mrs. Lorena C. Fletcher, American Mother of the Year, also spoke impressively. President Hugh B. Brown of The First Presidency delivered a soul-stirring message to the women of the Church, who were given greater insight into the "favored position" of women in the home and in the Church, and a broader vision regarding their important role of wives as well as mothers in Zion. The music for this session was gloriously rendered by a combined Singing Mothers Chorus from Beaver, Cedar, Cedar West, Kanab, Panguitch, Parowan, St. George, St. George East, Uvada, and Zion Park Stakes, concluding with the inspiring hymn, "Home, Sweet Home," directed by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board. Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board directed the chorus in one anthem. Elder Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. Two new General Board members were sustained, making a total of forty-nine members. Wednesday evening approximately 3,000 stake and mission Relief Society leaders were warmly welcomed by the General Board to the reception in the Relief Society Building. In separate sessions Thursday morning, detailed instructions were given to all twelve members of Relief Society Stake Boards —to presidencies, secretarytreasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, work meeting leaders, visiting teacher message leaders, and to theology, social science, and_ literature class leaders. At the concluding session of the Conference, Elder Delbert L. Stapley of the Council of Twelve gave a stimulating address on the subject of "Relief Society Administration Leadership." This was followed by a moving presentation entitled RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE "Home Is My Harbor," written and directed by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board. Through a glimpse into the life of a typical Latter-day Saint family, the presentation impressively portrayed the great influence Relief Society can be in the lives of its members and the pronounced effect the Priesthood and Relief Society coordinated courses relating to teaching and living the gospel in the home, can have upon Latter-day Saint families. | As the concluding speaker of the Conference, Elder Marion G. Romney, an advisor to Relief Society from the Council of The Twelve, outlined the procedure to be followed by Relief Society leaders in coordinating with the Priesthood Home Teaching Program to enlist all women of the Church in Relief Society, and to help them maintain consistent attendance at their meetings. Elder Romney imbued those in attendance with an added conviction of the inspiration of the General Authorities in the development of the new Church Correlation Program, and with a desire to support fully all aspects of this program. All assembled joined at the conclusion of another great Relief Society Annual General Conference in singing "Love at Home," which seemed to reecho the need to make each Latterday Saint home a haven of beauty, love, harmony, and unity, and a _ foundation for eternal exaltation for all of its family members. Through Relief Society, the wives and mothers of the Church are aided in the accomplishment of this great responsibility. 895 he L i w A blanket of fresh snow covered the ground, making the colonialstyle home with the typical green shutters a picture for a Christmas card. Inside the cozy home, Judith Blair busied herself making cookies for the fast approaching holiday season. Excitement filled the atmosphere in anticipation of the days to come. My family will soon be home, Judith thought, as she worked, a glowing look of happiness upon her delicate face. She and her husband Henry had looked forward to the holiday season for so long. It would be the first time that the family had been together in three years. Steven, their son, had been stationed overseas with the Air Force and Kathy, their daughter, was away at college in her sophomore year. Judith remembered pleasantly the times that she and Kathy had spent together shopping for the holidays, and she could hardly 896 =rfiech Christa: Betty Lou Martin Smith wait until they could have that time together again. We've always been such a close family, she thought, and now there'll be just the four of us as it was before Steven went overseas. Putting the cookies in the oven to bake, Judith walked over to the window. Outside, the shadows cast a strange, mystic light as the twilight came. The view was indeed breath-taking, and she breathed a sigh at its loveliness. It will be a perfect Christmas this year, she smiled contentedly to herself. The ringing of the telephone brought. Judith back to reality as she hurried to its beckoning. "Hello, Mom, this is Kathy." "Kathy!" Judith was surprised. "Is everything all nght? I didn't expect to hear from you again before we met the train." "Everything is just fine, Mom," Kathy explained. "I just wondered how you would like to have guests over the holidays? My two roommates, Sue and Angela, are going to be left here alone for the holidays. It is too far for them to go home; and I thought maybe it would seem more like Christmas to them if they spent it with us." Judith was glad that Kathy couldn't see the disappointment on her face. "Kathy, I was planning on just the four of us spending the holidays together," she managed. Kathy was silent for a moment, "Everyone needs a family at Christmas, Mom. I've already sort of asked them. I know that I. Should have called you and Daddy first." Her composure regained, Judith added quickly, "Of course, dear, if that is what you want, then we will make the best of it." "I know that you won't be sorry, Mother. You'll like the girls every bit as well as I do. I just know it." Kathy's voice was excited. '""We'll see you in a couple of days." * * "It sounds great to me," Henry Blair, a distinguished man with graying hair, said, as he hung his overcoat in the hall closet. 'I like young people around, especially at Christmastime." "T know where Kathy got her impulsiveness from, Henry." Judith was annoyed. 'She never could turn away a stray cat or dog and neither could you. She should think of her family before she acts." For the first time Henry noticed the crushed look upon his wife's face. Over the years he had come to know her every mood so well.