THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS "You're disappointed that we are not going to be just the four of us this year, aren't you, dear?" Gently Henry put his arms around Judith. The tears of disapproval finally gave way in Judith. "I thought this was going to be the best Christmas ever, and now Kathy's bringing the girls with her. I know that I sound selfish, Henry, but I did so want us to enjoy this Christmas." "There's certainly no reason in the world why we can't enjoy Christmas as much this year as we ever have," Henry comforted his wife. "T wish I had your compassion, Henry." Judith dried her eyes. "T'll do my best to make them feel welcome. I won't let Kathy down." "That's my girl."' Henry smiled. "T think that we should get them a present so they won't be left out on Christmas morning." "Trust you to think of everything. Of course, we wouldn't want the girls to feel left out of things." As Kathy had promised, the girls were very sweet and seemed to fit into the home exceptionally well. Even quiet, good-looking Steven was more jovial and talkative than usual. Kathy's roommate, Sue, was small and brown-haired with an air of mischievousness about her, and the sprinkling of freckles across her upturned nose added to her charm. Angela, a lovely, dark-haired girl, was less talkative than Sue, but every bit as charming in her quiet way. "Aren't they simply terrific, Mom?" Blue-eyed Kathy bubbled as she helped her mother in the kitchen. "And they think that the family is simply terrific too." "Yes, they are very nice, Kathy." Judith tried to sound convincing. The day before Christmas dawned bright and crisp. The earth appeared as an enchanted fairyland with its sparkling white snow. ''What a simply glorious day to go shopping." Kathy went into Judith's room and found her seated in front of the window. "Aren't you ready, Mom? We're going in a few minutes." "T didn't plan on going with you, Kathy." Judith turned her face away from her daughter. "You young people don't want me tagging along with you." "Oh, but we do, Mrs. Blair." Angela stood in the doorway. "It will be more like being at home having you with us. Please go." "Oh, please do, Mrs. Blair," Sue added as she walked up to the side of Angela. "It will be such fun." A pleasant feeling came over Judith, and her face flushed becomingly. 'Well, I guess that I might as well. It will only take me a few minutes to get ready." She was flattered that the girls would want her with them. Judith couldn't remember having spent a happier day in her entire life. The girls were so congenial and such fun to be with. The Christmas carols sounded out joyously as they walked from store to store, and the sidewalk Santas added their warmth to the day. "TI can't ever remember having walked so far on carpus,' Sue commented, as she removed her shoes and flopped into an easy chair. "Mrs. Blair is the only one who doesn't seem tired at all. I 898 'honestly don't know how parents do it." Angela and Kathy laughed. "I know that I can't keep up with them," Angela chided. "T don't know whether I am going to be able to dance tonight or not," Kathy said weakly, "although it is very thoughtful of Steve to get us dates." "Oh, come on now, Kathy. He just arranged it so that he could go with Angela," Sue teased. "Honestly, Sue, I don't know where you get your ideas from." Angela blushed as she tried to match Sue's wit. It was evident that Steven was quite taken by Angela. He had never been so attentive to a girl before. "I must say that Steven has good taste," Judith said approvingly. Christmas Eve the girls took over little chores that had always tired Judith before, and she could not remember having felt so rested the day before Christmas. She went about her remaining tasks leisurely, enjoying every moment of her family's and guests' happy chatter. The very air had a mystery about it, as if it were truly about to proclaim the anniversary of the Savior's birth. How beautiful and tranquil the world seemed, and how beautiful and tranquil Judith felt in her heart. That evening after supper, everyone gathered in the living room to hear Henry's traditional reading from the Bible, the story of the Savior's birth. Kathy turned the Christmas tree lights on, and they flickered merrily in the warm light of the fireplace. Judith let her gaze rest upon each of the faces before her, and I eyes also f k were new that have a Ore beay- "You are ome, m dear." Ul experie Ce or feel as She did Judith 1] €ant it. "And J at that moment. Ant you to know that | can't After nry had finished eadTemember a More berfect Christng, ther Was a hushed Silence mas,"' —____ At Christmas Tim Pauline M. Belj Christmas 'S made of Many things— Hope and qd Ms to he family glad Happy Children, bells th t 4 Som rees Olored lights nd Caroled we Frost UPON the Window Scenes Our kindreq a | nd their 8ifts of love, Million little Stars 9 Snow.