Work Meeting) Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness For Second Meeting, Objective: To show that cleanliness js the foundation in building a lovely Physical environment for the family. Specific help on different cleaning Schedules will be presented in the next lesson, which will be a continuation of "Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness,."' INTRODUCTION ber optimal health and happiness, Is there anything more SatisfyEvery Latter-day Saint homeing than a clean house—sparkmaker should strive to set a ling windows, immaculately clean standard of cleanliness of which corners and baseboards, fresh, she can be proud—a_ standard -weet-smelling beds, and beauti. Which says, I love my home. I ful clean floors? Cleanliness can want my children to remember be achieved only through effec. A house that shines." tive planning, know-how, and The homemaker _ Should aswork. Sume the initiative In determinRegard housework as a priving the standard she feels is lege and a creative experience. Consistent _with her particular Look upon the skills of cleaning family. This will be affected by a house not as goals in themthe Individual family Setup: (1) Selves, but as a means to securfamily members — the number, ing comfort, beauty, and happy ages, their health, Interests, acrelationships in the home. Livities, and how they share SET YOUR STANDARD size and condition of the house; A standard is your rule for (3) the season of the year and measurement of cleanliness, and climate; and (4) the efficiency has to do chiefly with the result Of cleaning Cquipment, materials, you wish to obtain. It goes with. And methods used. Out saying that the quality of housekeeping done in the home cleaning standard should insure each family memfamily: Father who is ward clerk: mother who is ward Relief Society work meeting leader and community leader; John who is seventeen, plays basketball for his high school, works in a grocery store on Saturday doing odd jobs, and assists with the Boy Scout troop; Annette who is fifteen, plays in the school orchestra, has lots of school activities, and teaches Primary; David who is twelve, all boy, and is trying to advance as fast as he can in the Boy Scout program; and Mary who is six, loves pets, and is in first grade. All are healthy and have agreed to share the cleaning of the house. The house, an older home, is modest but adequate with the average-sized kitchen, small dining room, a living room, three bedrooms, and a bath. It has an unfinished basement. The house is in good condition but needs redecorating. The season is late winter or early spring in a temperate climate. The tank-type vacuum cleaner is fairly new; the other equipment is in average condition but of rather poor quality. The mother doesn't seem to find time to try new methods of cleaning. (Limit discussion to no more than four minutes.) PLAN YOUR WORK WORK YOUR PLAN A busy mother who maintained a clean, sparkling home and yet had time for her husband and family and who enriched her life with Church activities and some civic responsibilities confided, "Housekeeping by the inch is a cinch, but housekeeping by the ward is hard.''* A regular work plan or schedule will avoid many hours of laborious cleaning. The kitchen range is a case in point. Quick cleaning each day, wiping up spills carefully as they occur, and weekly attention will avoid hours of tedious scouring and cleaning after months of neglect. You may *Quoted by Dr. Virginia F. Cutler at Utah State Home Economics Association Convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, . LESSON DEPARTMENT not always be able to adhere to a schedule (and it is vital that it possess flexibility), but make one and write it down on paper or on a bulletin board where you can consult it each day. It will help you to think more clearly and find better solutions to problems. Following a schedule leads to establishing proper habits; it eliminates frustrating little decisions which must be made constantly. In making your plan be certain that it is family-centered. Remember, you can be master of the situation. You have the schedule; the schedule should not have you! In determining your plans carefully consider: (1) What needs to be cleaned, (2) how often it needs to be cleaned, (3) how long it will take, and (4) the order which is best. Again, keep your' standard high and consider the conditions in your home. HINTS THAT HELP 1. Creative management and teaching are jobs of the homemaker. How can you get everyone in the act? Maintaining a shining home is the responsibility of each member of the family. How might the counseling period of the Family Home Evening be used to discuss cleaning problems in the home? 2. Alternate light and heavy work, jobs that are fun and jobs that are tedious. 3. Study your working ways; try to improve them. 4. Buy articles and _ furnishings with upkeep and cleaning in mind. 5. Clean up and put away tools and equipment as you go. SUMMARY The Lord said, '"'And let all things be done in cleanliness before me" (D&C 42:41). In what ways can a clean, neat house make for greater spirituality in the home? Be an imaginative and creative housekeeper. Think ahead, study, and work—if the schedule fails, try again. Devise better ways of polishing the silver, of splashing in the dishpan, of making your hooked rug a vision of beauty. Build a lovely physical environment; it will inspire your family; it will be self-fulfillment for you, the keeper of the house. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT: Challenge each sister carefully to evaluate her own work schedule. Challenge her to attempt to remedy one or two cleaning problems during the coming month.