[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year]
weary trek across the plains followed a very few necessities, and the winter
their arrival in America. Imagine the was very severe,
heartache of grandmother with no Jessie (my mother) was now nine
companion to help her share her re years of age. There were no schools
sponsibilities! She had supreme of any kind in Morgan County and
faith, however, that she would very few books. Mother learned to
reach her destination and be able read and spell from the songbooks
to make a home for herself and chil in Church. She was a beautiful
dren. She was also very wise and singer, and she loved to read the
very thrifty. She had a natural tal hymns as well as to sing them. In
Page 76
THE BIG HORN BASIN
77

A. O. V/OODRUFF AND JESSE W\ CROSLEY, JR., ON WAY TO BIG
HORN
time, she became a ﬂuent reader and a lover of good literature. Mother was
married in the Endowment House in Salt Lake City to George H. Taggart
when she was only sixteen years of age. The ceremony was performed by
President Joseph F. Smith. Father had been sent with his father to Morgan
to build a ﬂour mill which was the ﬁrst one in that part of the State.
Mother's ﬁrst child was born when she was seventeen years of age, and
from then on her children came about every two years. The family was
very poor, and she was tried in many, many ways; but she was naturally of
a cheerful, determined disposition, with a good sense of humor, and she
made the best of every situation. There were no doctors in the community,
so grandmother decided to be an obstetrician. She was the only one in
Morgan for many years, and she did most of her work without monetary
com-
pensation. She must have been a good midwife, for she cared for my
mother through sixteen, completely successful conﬁnements. There was no
chloroform in those days and child bearing was not the relatively easy
matter it is today. I can see grandmother now with a little black lace bonnet
on her head, a shoulder shawl, and a satchel, about which we were very
curious as children. She would come every day for ten days, then, with the
help of the older children, mother would again assume her responsibilities.
As Christmas time approaches, my thoughts always revert to my childhood.
Our Christmas presents were few and simple. Among the presents I shall
always remember were the silver rings father made for us out of silver
coins. Dimes were used in making those for the smaller children, and
quarters were used for the larger ones. He made our doll cradles, beds,
sheet-iron stoves, with
an oven and stovepipe, for mud pies, cation for this same tract of land on
Mother always knitted new stock January ii, 1900, before the State ings for
us; I was quite a young lady Board of Wyoming. On February when I had
my ﬁrst ''store stock 2, 1900, Elder Woodruﬀ requested ings." the following
gentlemen to meet As the family increased in num him in Ogden, Utah, for
the pur-ber and the boys grew older (there pose of making a trip to the Big
were ten of them), father began to Horn Basin with a view to establish-

wonder what to do with us all. Be ing a colony there: Byron Sessions ing a
tradesman, he had no land ex of Woodruﬀ, Rich County; H. K. cept the
acre on which our home North, Salt Lake County; George H. was built. For
young people to Taggart, Morgan County; John and leave home in those
days to ﬁnd William Simmons, Charles A. work in the cities was
considered a Welch, and John Croft of Morgan dangerous thing. About this
time. County; Brigham L. Tippets and the year 1900, Governor Deforest
William B. Graham of Bennington, Richards, and Secretary of State Idaho;
John Stephens and S. P. Fennemore Chatterton visited Pres Sorenson of
Montpelier, Idaho; ident Lorenzo Snow and counselors Bishop N. P.
Larsen and Mr. Gum-asking for a colony of Mormons to sey of Thomas
Fork, Bear Lake be sent to the Big Horn Basin in County. Most of these
men had Wyoming. President Snow ap been farmers in their own com-
pointed Owen Woodruﬀ, of the munities, but none of them had had
Council of the Twelve, to take any scientiﬁc training of any kind, charge of
the project, as he had been However, after going over the tract out to
Burlington, Wyoming, and of land, the party decided there was had
organized a ward there. He had a future for the country, that it was been
shown the Greybull Valley and good cattle land, and that the op-had seen
the crops produced there, portunity for home building in many samples of
which he had brought places was good, back to Salt Lake. He found that a
Elder Woodruﬀ made a report to permit had been issued August 10, the
General Authorities of the 1896, to the Cincinnati Canal Com Church. It
was favorably received, pany to build a canal that would ir and he was
appointed to take charge rigate a large tract of land on the of the
colonization. Franklin S. north side of the Shoshone River. Richards drew
up articles of incor-This company had sent the Honor poration for the Big
Horn Basin able Frank Mondell, who at that Colonization Company. The
organ-time was United States senator from ization of this company was
eﬀected Wyoming, to make a report on the in Salt Lake City, April 9, 1900,
but feasibility of building the canal. He the company was organized under
had reported that it was impossible the laws of the State of Wyoming, to
accomplish such a project, so it
had been abandoned and the permit HTHE ﬁrst settlers left their homes
had reverted to the State, Decem in Salt Lake City and began their
ber 14, 1898. journey to the Big Horn on April
Elder Woodruﬀ ﬁled an appli 25, 1900. They started early in the

THE BIG HORN BASIN
79
MORMON PATHFINDERS TO THE BIG HORN BASIN, WYOMING
Front row: George H. Taggart, Byron Sessions, Abraham O. Woodruﬀ,
William B. Graham, Brigham L. Tippetts, S. P. Sorenson. Back row:
Charles A. Welch, Hyrum K. North, John Stevens, William G. Simmons,
John J. Simmons.
year, in order to avoid high water season, as many streams had to be
forded, there being no bridges over most of them. The people were
organized into companies similar to the way in which the early Mormon
pioneers had been organized. My father was captain of one of these
companies. My two brothers, John Robert and Bruce, and two sisters,
Rebecca and Nettie, were in this company. (Mother and the other members
of the family remained at home until later.) They traveled one whole month
before they reached their destination. The same distance and practically the
same route is now traveled in eighteen hours by automobile. They
encountered many diﬃculties. There were no roads, just trails; and the
weather was bad all the way. During the heavy storms the horses were

without food except for the oats the men had taken with them. The men
would tie quilts about the horses to keep them from freezing to death, while
they, in turn, would sit around a campﬁre to keep themselves warm. There
was considerable sickness, one little child dying of pneumonia. Father
made a coﬃn for her from the end gates of wagons, and she was sent back
to Utah for burial. The broken-hearted parents had to carry on.
The group arrived in the Basin May 24, 1900. Tents were pitched as there
was not a house within T radius of ﬁfty miles. Just three days later the ﬁrst
ecclesiastical organization was eﬀected with 127 persons
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1945
PIONEER COMPANIES NUMBERS 2 AND 3 AT HAMS FORK
present. A Sunday School, Mutual Improvement Association, and Relief
Society were organized. Lucy F. Grant, sister-in-law of President Heber J.
Grant and wife of Morgan Grant, was the ﬁrst Relief Society president.
This was a new country in very deed. The people were faced with many
obstacles and trials of all kinds. There were no roads, no towns within ﬁfty
miles, no doctors within a hundred miles. Some of the people lived in tents,
some in sheep wagons, and all realized it would be months and perhaps
years before they would enjoy the real comforts of life. There was no mail
service, and letters had to be taken to some roadside ranch many miles
away, where the stagecoach would pick them up. Rattlesnakes, lizards, -
spiders, et cetera, were plentiful, and everyone had to be on the alert for
them at all times. There was no feed for animals, except salt sage and a