[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Poem | Title: I]

will of the State of Illinois" came the cry. Lord earlier. It was upon this trip
that the
Before this journey overseas was Prophet met and talked with Presi-taken,
seven of the Twelve, in an dent Van Buren, who at ﬁrst lis-swer to another
command (Doc. tened to the story of the Church, and Cov. 115:8-18;
118:5), ^^^^ ^ but, later, in fear of his own political conference on the
temple grounds at life turned a deaf ear to justice say-Far West, on the
morning of April ing, "Your cause is just, but I can 26, 1839, at one o'clock
a.m. At that do nothing for you, and if I take up
LESSON DEPARTMENT
53
for you, I shall lose the vote of Missouri."
In disgust, the Prophet left the ''city of politicians." His trip was not in vain,
hov^ever, for during his journey he spoke to large audiences about the
cause of Truth. Edward Hunter of Chester County, Pennsylvania, later a
presiding bishop of the Church, came into the fold as a result of hearing the
message delivered by the Prophet at this time.
With the winter of i840-'4i came a most liberal charter granted to the city of
Nauvoo by the legislature. So broad were its provisions that great good for
the Church and its people was seen by the Prophet. A day or two after this
instrument of government went into eﬀect, on February i, 1841, a
university and a Nauvoo Legion were organized. The Prophet became the
head of the latter, holding the rank of lieutenant-general. Newspapers sent
reporters to cover the news of the "Military Prophet." Joseph Smith's fame
now had spread to two continents. Publishers sought his word for printed
distribution. The result was a short account of the founding and rise of the
Church, as written by the Prophet, in which, succinctly, were put the
"Articles of Faith," the subject of the Relief Society theology lessons for
the past three years.
As one reads these, he is impressed with their simplicity and direct
expression of the power of godliness. "We believe" they state. Ours is a
faith that leads on to an understanding of the will of God; not a religion of
the mind that is shaped from the touch-and-go interpretations of his word
