[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers' Messages: Blessed Are They Which Are Persecuted For Righteousness' Sake Elder Bryant S. Hinckley]
^ Lesson 8—Blessed Are They Which Are Persecuted
for Righteousness' Sake
Eider Bryant S. Hinckley For Tuesday, May i, 1945
"Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is
the kingdom of heaven (Matt $:io).
"Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall
say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be
exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they
the prophets which were before you." (Matt. 5:11-12)
Objective: To show that those who courageously'stand for righteousness
are often the victims of persecution, but such persecution is often the
pathway to spiritual growth and those who stand ﬁrm under such
persecution are heirs to the kingdom of heaven.
'T^HE real followers of the Master Christ, was tried, convicted, and
have the attributes of the Be condemned to death for teach-
atitudes as a part of their very ing the immortality of the soul,
being—meekness, charity, purity of the beauty and necessity of virtue,
heart, etc. These traits are their and the moral responsibility of man,
strength, and through this strength Galileo, in the seventeenth century,
his children are as salt, to keep the was condemned and imprisoned for
world from corruption, and they are teaching that the earth revolves

as light in darkness. around the sun. Our latter-day
Christ revealed "the riches of pov prophet, Joseph Smith, was perse-erty,
the royalty of meekness, the cuted and martyred for righteous-high
beatitude of sorrow and perse "ess' sake. The blood of the martyrs cution"
(Farrar, The Life of Christ, has always been the seed of the p. 139). Paul
declared: "Yea, and Church.
all that will live godly in Christ Jesus Persecution is often the pathway
shall suﬀer persecution" (II Tim to spiritual growth. It does two
othy, 3:12). things: It makes those who are
To be persecuted for righteous strong more Christlike; and, at the ness' sake
is an indication that one same time, it drives away the weak, stands for the
truth. It indicates the triﬂers, and the cowards. It that such an one is a
thwart of evil, repels those who are not willing to that he is ﬁghting
shoulder to pay the price. It appeals to those of shoulder vdth the prophets
who have heroic heart, gone before him. He is opposed, be "Blessed are
they which are perse-cause, like them, he is an inﬂuence cuted for
righteousness' sake," who in the good ﬁght for the truth. have the courage
to stand for the
Persecution has been the common truth, who will not surrender, who
lot of prophets, spiritual leaders, and prefer to suﬀer rather than to yield,
followers of Christ. Those who have Those intrepid souls are sustained by
promoted righteous reforms have divine inﬂuence that renders their
often been the victims of it. Socra suﬀering sweet. Theirs is the king-
tes, who lived 400 years before dom of heaven.