[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: The Bureau]

YOU remember your Grandma Watts, don't you? Bertha Carlson, she was, before she married me. You remember when she died, but that was a long time ago and you were living in California. I suppose Bertha was very much like other women, only better. But when we were young I thought there was one particular thing about her that was peculiar. She set her heart on a piece of furniture.

I remember the first time Bertha mentioned wanting a bureau. We called them bureaus then, although I hear your wife referring to them as chests of drawers. We needed bureaus badly because the houses had no built-in cabinets. We had just moved into our first home—one room.

There sat Bertha on the floor with a heap of bundles around her, all her wedding finery. She held some lacey things in her pretty hands and she looked at me with coaxing blue eyes.

"John," she said, "I do wish I had a bureau."

I bent down and put my arms around her and kissed her auburn hair, and I said, "Don't you worry, Bertha. I'm the one that's going to get you a bureau and everything else you want." I didn't know then what I've learned since or I wouldn't have made promises. I never would have made promises. It takes a long time to learn things, and sometimes you don't learn until it is too late.

Bertha must have thought of that bureau a lot after she first mentioned it.

Just before our first baby came she asked about it again. She had all the clothes about done, stacks of them, but where she got the cloth from I don't know, for I wasn't making much. Dry farming, you know, depends on the weather. You don't have a regular income. So, as I said before, I don't know where Bertha got the cloth for the baby clothes.

Maybe her folks gave her some or she might have cut up some of her wedding things.

I can't forget that evening. It was November and the wind rattled the door. Bertha was sitting by the kitchen range with her crochet hook flying, and there, piled on the table were the baby things. She said she felt pretty good and she laid down the crocheting and started to fix my supper. She began to move the things off the table. Then she stopped and said, "John, dear, I do wish I had a bureau. It would be nice if I had some drawers to put these things in."

I put my arm on her shoulder and I asked, "How much do they cost?"

"Maybe fifteen dollars," she said, "or twenty-five for a big solid-oak one."

But I didn't have a five in my pocket.

The next day I went to the store and got a big empty dry-goods box, and together we lined it with cloth and put the baby clothes in it, and Bertha seemed contented.

Queer about women, though. She had her heart set on the bureau. Never asked for much else, and I made up my mind I'd get the bureau for her as soon as ever I could. That wasn't easy to do, for we always needed something else worse—a new cook stove, a carpet, some tools or machinery. Then we had to build on to the house and make it larger, as you see it now, with this fancy porch and the bedrooms and all. We had five children and we needed the extra rooms.

When I saw Bertha getting old and frail looking, I was worried. She never mentioned the bureau any more. I did manage to buy some furniture, a sofa, and a leather chair, and a desk for the parlor. We got along and we tried to be kind to each other. But even when I was alone, her voice seemed to be ringing in my ears. This was strange, for Bertha was a quiet woman by nature and she was never one to nag about anything. Once when I was sitting at sundown on a ledge above the river a light wind was blowing. Then, all at once, I thought I could see Bertha coming up the cliff, and I thought I heard her say, "John, I do wish I had a bureau."

I got up and went home and told Bertha I was going to town the next day to get her bureau. She looked at me with those same coaxing blue eyes, only they were faded now, and she said, "Oh, John, we need so many other things. Don't bother about the bureau."

But I went to town the next day and I bought the finest bureau in the store. It was solid oak with a big mirror and lots of drawers. It cost me forty dollars, but I didn't care. When I got it home and set it up in our bedroom, Bertha cried. She opened and shut every drawer and looked at herself in the mirror, and she was as happy as a child.

That was the last piece of furniture I ever bought for Bertha. She died the next winter. But I'm glad I got her that bureau. Every time I look at it now, I think of how happy she was that day, and I'm glad I didn't wait any longer.
