Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C., listed as free). Or it may be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C., for ten cents. (Do not send stamps.) Your Part In Utah's Centennial - (Continued from page 71) neat and attractive condition the vacant lots, unsightly buildings, and refuse rendezvous which now deface so many communities.
Through such concerted, community action, the Utah virtue of co-operation can be applied to establish and encourage individual and community habits of neatness, cleanliness, and industry.
Utah people, who hope to be hosts to the world in 1947, whether our guests come in person or meet us on the motion picture screen or through the medium of the radio, will gain nothing but shame, if the attention we attract to our State is diverted to evidences of slothfulness. It, therefore, behooves all of us who are proud of our heritage to bestir ourselves at once and work to make our part in the beautification of our fair State worthy of the standards which nature and our ancestors have so generously set. MUSIC 0 We carry large stocks of music suitable for churches, schools and home use, arranged for vocal and instrumental solos, choirs, bands and orchestras. We specialize in L. D. S.
Church music.
Write to us for suggestions and material available.
Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 PLANT for Victory Health md Economy More than ever this year you'll want those Garden Fresh Vegetables at your kitchen door and Fruit for future enjoyment. SUCCESS IS ASSURED With P-W's
MOUNTAIN GROWN SEEDS
Get Our FREE 1945 GARDEN BOOK It tells How?What and When?for Garden, Orchard and Farm. Porter-Walton Co.
SEED AND NURSERY SPECIALISTS
Salt Lake City. Utah Good News For Bible Students! We can now supply these excellent helps: The Graphic Bible by Lewis Brown ? - - $1.50
Crudens Bible Concordance - $2.50
Dummelow's One Volume Commentary $3.00
Smith's Bible Dictionary $2.00
Irwin's Bible Commentary, $2.50
Hurlbut's Bible Atlas $3.50
Historical Atlas of the Holy Land.- $1.00
Treasures from the Bible ? $2.50 and BIBLES, a good stock at last at prices $1.50, $3.00, $4.00, $4.50, $5.00, $6.00. $8.00 and $10.00
Our incomparable L. D. S. Mis