[Vol32 | February 1945 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: I Am Woolley]
X. Benediction
THE BIG HORN BASIN
PJiny A. Wiley
The sun burst on the mountains— The Rocky western wall
Where Yellowstone's great fountains Forevermore enthrall.
The sun set on the eastern range The Big Horn's matchless steeps

Where alpenglows in beauties change, And grandeur vigil keeps.
In the Big Horn Basin's glory Beside its canyon grand,
I read creation's story
Writ by the Master's hand.
I viewed the towering works of time;
With aeons and ages I trod. I read his narrative sublime;
The manuscript of God.
Mother~in-Law
Edith Lovell
GRACE found the timetable on a rainy Sunday afternoon. Beth had put on
her coat and tied a scarf around her bright hair, and Grace had almost said,
''Don't go out in the rain, Beth; you'll catch cold!" Almost. She remembered
in time that it would sound mother-in-lawish, and held her tongue. Beth
went out in the rain and turned south toward the path over the slope at the
end of the street.
Grace picked up the book Beth had been reading and a folder fell out of it.
It was a railroad timetable. Grace stared at it silently and realized what it
meant. It meant Beth was going to leave her and go back to her aunt in
Texas. It meant that Beth couldn't stand it here any longer. It meant that
Grace had failed as a mother-in-law. She had tried so hard! She had come
to love Beth deeply. Where had she failed? What had she done?
Grace could remember every detail of that crisp fall day when Beth had
arrived.
* « « *
''Well, all dressed up to impress your new daughter-in-law!" Bill Johnson
teased Grace, as she hurried into the little station. Grace smiled nervously
and smoothed her new gloves.

"How soon will the train be in?" she asked.
"Any minute now," said Bill. "Yep, here she comes."
Grace looked quickly to see if her stocking seams were straight. She hoped
she looked all right. How
Page 92
should a mother-in-law act? Mother-in-Jaw is such an alien word! She did
want Tommy's wife to like her.
Tommy had written,
". . . so I'm sending Beth to you. There's no use of you both living alone.
You'll be less lonesome together, and Beth hasn't any folks at all except her
aunt and uncle here in Texas. She'll be the daughter you've always wanted.
Take good care of her for me, will you, Mom?"
The train wheezed to a stop. Watching the steps, Grace thought, Let's see, I
musn't be bossy, or prying, or critical.
Then Beth stepped oﬀ the train. She was tall. Poised. She wore a brown suit
and a brown felt hat. She looked around an instant and then walked quickly
to Grace.
"You're Tommy's mother," she said.
"Hello, my dear," said Grace. She put her arms around the girl and kissed
her. Beth's skin was fresh and sweet; Grace felt a surge of warmth in her
heart.
They smiled at each other, and then, because there was so much to say,
Grace couldn't think of a thing.
"The car is out this way," she said, feebly, and picked up one of the
suitcases. Beth picked up the other and they went to the car.
"You must be hungry," said Grace. "It's almost noon."
She drove downtown to Weston's best cafe. At the cafe, Grace's shyness
subsided. They ordered.
