Notes from the Field Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary
PROGRAM OF QUEENS WARD, NEW YORK STAKE New York Stake
AN impressive portrayal of the Relief Society Magazine was given by the Queens Ward of the New York Stake at its annual meeting. The thought was to bring the organ of the Society vibrantly before the whole Ward. To this end a large copy of the cover of the Magazine was set up on the stage. The President of the Queens Ward, Eva Frampton Driggs, after speaking briefly on the work the organ is doing in holding Relief Societies all over the world in unity, and in bringing inspiration and practical help to officers and members everywhere, announced that some of the living pages of the Magazine would be opened. The curtain was drawn, and Flora Tanner Woolf stepped forth from the pages of the Magazine to introduce with appropriate historic setting the past Presidents of the whole Relief Society. When the leaves had been closed on these living pictures out of the past, they were again opened to give something from the living present. Following this a trio was sung. Finally came a little play, "The Bible at the Fireside," enacted to make vivid the "Home Project." The program was enjoyed by most of the members of the Queens Ward, and by a goodly number of visitors. It was generally acclaimed as one of the best ever given in the ward. - It was unified, varied, filled with choice entertainment, and with lasting lessons out of real life. More than this it achieved its central purpose—to impress the vital values in our Relief Society Magazine.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD  PORTRAYED Standing Left to Right: Beth S. Driggs, Ethel L. Handley, Thyra T. Stoddard. Seated, Left to Right: Lois Park, Margaret C. Merrill, Bernice Dyer.
Big Horn Stake
WITH deep gratitude for past blessings, this progressive Stake began the New Year. "The annual ball, January 3, 1936, provided a social atmosphere where all could relax when Father Time had written 'Well Done' after the labors of Nineteen Hundred and Thirty-five. Patriotic February, the month of Pioneer story writing contests, is replete with hallowed memories of early life among the Mormon Pioneers. March brought us much closer to our ancestors and added another page to a record already rich in memories of other Annual Days, and Biographies of many brave and wonderful men and women. April is truly a month refreshing. Our representatives to the General Conference braved much storm and zero weather, and brought back a blessing to our Stake. May saw our Stake Board strengthened by the appointment of three new members. Then the Cantata, "Spring Cometh," presented at our Union Meeting and by special request repeated in the general assembly with the Priesthood. And everywhere throughout the Stake, gardens gave promise of a bounteous harvest. June gave us a thrill which will not soon be forgotten. The observance of Daughters' Day, honoring General President Clarissa S. Williams, is remembered with reverence for its hallowed story of mother love and service, and the devotion of lovely daughters. Something happened in July which must be classified as history-making events in this Stake. July seventeenth may, in the not far distant future, be a red letter day on our calendar of humble beginnings of important undertakings, and may be remembered as the birth of an in- 244 stitution. It marks the beginning of our Music Institute which today is remembered by enthusiastic music leaders in all our Wards. Another corner-stone was laid July Fourteenth upon which stands an edifice of great strength and beauty in community life. The organization of a Relief Society at Cody, with six members, which has today more than doubled its enrollment, and has already been recognized as an efficient organ through which City Welfare Organizations can work to better advantage. In its activities it is abreast of many of our older associations. In July also the Relief Society mothers cooperated with the Aaronic Priesthood leaders to stimulate greater activity among the members. August, a lucky month for the Roman Emperor Augustus, was not less splendid for the Big Horn Stake. The movement for a Leadership Week had its inception within the realm of Relief Society, but our Presidency were quick to realize a Stake-wide benefit to all auxiliaries and took command of the Ship of Leaders and enlisted the support of the General Authorities of the Church. Crowded classrooms was the answer. It is pleasant to remember, in connection with this great undertaking, the unselfish spirit of our beloved leaders, President Archie R. Boyack and President Hazel N. Boyack, who forfeited a well-earned vacation, a trip which would have taken them into important eastern cities to obtain suggestions for bringing greater educational opportunities to the good people of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Big Horn Basin. The joy which came from seeing the eager, enthusiastic lesson groups, may, we hope, prove a compensation to these able educators. Before we leave this period of activity we are reminded that those who missed the wonderful display of fresh and preserved fruit and vegetables during our conference week, really missed a wonderful exhibit, and an opportunity to see many varieties new to this locality. We hope no one missed the music festival presented by the combined Relief Society Choruses. In September the air was filled with the clarion cry, BUY A MAGAZINE! This campaign completely overshadowed all other of our Magazine efforts in the Big Horn Stake, having four Wards among the ten leading ones of the Church. Our sincere gratitude goes to our loyal and efficient Ward Presidents and workers. October brought another golden opportunity for garnering inspiration from the General Conference for the Winter's work. ~- November's bright spot was the visit of our General Board Member and the extensive exhibit of useful and decorative articles during our conference-convention. December distributed many blessings to the needy in all Wards in conformity to the Relief program launched in July. 'And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto ME.' December ends with our Aspirations and Goals set higher for Nineteen Hundred and Thirty-seven.
 
THE GENERAL BOARD
Emma A. Empey Nettie D. Bradford Janet M. Thompson Annie Wells Cannon Marcia K. Howells Belle S. Spafford Elise B. Musser Emeline Y. Nebeker Donna Durrant Sorensen Jennie B. Knight Mary Connelly Kimball Vivian R. McConkie Inez K. Allen Lalene H. Hart Leda T. Jensen Ida P. Beal Beatrice F. Stevens Cora L. Bennion Rae B. Barker Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman
nying their parents to these meetings setting an example to the entire ward. Many other parents do the same. These children are happy and enjoy the association. They are brought up in the way they should go, and we feel sure that when they are old they will not depart from it.
Drifting From Fundamentals
ONE of our fine new Stake Relief Society Presidents at a Church Security Regional meeting recently said, "I am glad the women are called upon to do something. I was raised from paper bags. When I was married, my husband took me to a forty-acre farm. There was nothing on it. We had to do everything ourselves. I soon found that everything that had to be done I loved to do, whether it was helping plant potatoes, raising chickens or what not. We have had eleven children. We have worked; they have worked; and as they have become ready for the university, we have been able to send them there." Women today need to face life and master difficulties as did this woman. They are drifting too far from fundamentals. Mothers are not training their daughters to do the homely tasks that women have done throughout the ages. Any woman who does not teach her daughter how to make good bread, has failed in instructing her in one of the necessary things that a girl should know. Unless girls are taught to sew in school, many grow up unable to do plain sewing or fashion tiny garments. Two things result unless these girls have innate ability along this line, either they suffer intensely in learning how to make their children's clothes or they buy them all ready made or hire them made. This makes a big, unnecessary drain on the income.
Daughters' Day
EVERYONE who deeply appreciates Relief Society and realizes how much it does for its members is anxious that others should enjoy its opportunities and privileges. Sister Jennie B. Knight at the 1936 April Conference called attention to a rich source for recruiting our ranks?our daughters. As an effective way of introducing them to the spirit and work of Relief Society she suggested the annual observance of Daughters' Day in every Relief Society in the Church. The two-fold purpose of the Day is first to magnify the blessing of motherhood; second, to have daughters who are not members of the Society give the program as a means of interesting them in the activities of the Society so that later they will be anxious to join our ranks." While the suggestion was made that April.21 be set aside as Daughters' Day, because it is the birthday of President Clarissa S. Williams, EDITORIALS our sixth General President, who was the mother of eight daughters, any day may be used that will be best suited for this purpose. Some have reported that they have enrolled some of the young women who became interested in this great work through observance of Daughters' Day last season. What a boon this organization is 247 to young mothers, taking them for a short period of time, from the routine of life and giving them a new outlook, food for thought, and an understanding and interest in this great organization. Presidents, do not forget the proper observance of this day. Let no year pass when it is not an outstanding feature of the year's events.
The Fussy Individual
WE presume no one has escaped the distress caused by a fussy individual "one who makes unnecessary ado about trifles." I know a woman who almost always when she comes into a room where a group of her friends are, says it is either too hot or too cold, there isn't enough air or there is a draft, there is too much light or too little, so when she arrives there is a feeling of expectancy. Her friends wonder what she will want to have done first. A group may have been happily considering problems, but when she arrives, they are disturbed by the lowering and raising of windows and blinds. Fussiness grows rapidly in one who does not nip it in the bud. How terrible a thing it is to let it grow upon one until he becomes what Arnold Bennett calls "the complete fusser" may be gleaned from the following: Mr. Bennett says, "The complete fusser has slowly convinced himself that the proper fulfillment of his destiny depends absolutely upon about 10,000 different things and he attaches a supreme and quite vital importance to all 10,000 of them." Mr. Bennett thinks even this individual, though, has a use, as he may serve as a "terrible warning to pull up." It is a terrible thing to have a disease that has no cure. Mr. Bennett says, "There is no cure for the complete fusser, because he is unconscious of being fussy. What the world regards as fussiness he regards as wisdom essential to a reasonable existence. He sincerely looks down upon the rest of mankind. Spiritual pride puts him into the category of the hopeless case?along with the alcoholic, the kleptomaniac, and other specimens whom he would chillingly despise." Fortunately few became "complete fussers." The thing to do is nip the thing in the bud. Examine yourself carefully. When you go to a table do you spoil the meal of all who sit around it by your fussiness, loudly proclaiming that you can't eat this, that you can't eat that, that this is not good for one and that is very injurious. Many a hostess has had a delightful dinner or luncheon spoiled by such people. If there are certain foods that you can't eat, say nothing about it and eat those you can. Are you so fussy about some little defect that you fail to enjoy the whole? If your introspection reveals that you are peculiar, lose no time in overcoming your peculiarities, for a fussy individual can destroy the peace, happiness and well-being of any group.
Lesson Department (For First Week in June) Theology and Testimony Lesson 9
THE MIRACLES OF THE CHRIST
Helpful References In the Bible: Matthew 17:14-21; Luke 7:1-10; John 2:1-11. Talmage: Articles of Faith, Chapter 12. Renan: Life of Jesus, Chapter 16 (Use discreetly).
1. Primitive Church Blessed With Spiritual Graces. The miracles of the Christ were among the graces with which the Primitive Church was blessed. They were by no means the most important graces; nevertheless, they were numerous enough and of such a nature that they command the attention of all men. The simple account of them in the Gospels has exerted, and still exerts, a powerful influence upon the world. The divine ministry of our Lord was bound, in its very nature, to manifest some outward evidences of God's love for His Son. In every: age of the world, when the priesthood of God has been given to men, certain unusual spiritual powers have operated to bless the people of the Church. These blessings will never cease so long as men have faith in God. Mormon, one of the last of the Nephite prophets, said, "It is by faith that miracles are wrought; and it is by faith that angels appear and minister unto men; wherefore, if these things have ceased, wo be unto the children of men, for it is because of unbelief, and all is vain." (Moroni 7:37.)
2. Modern Unbelief. It is unfortunate that the miracles of Christ's ministry are doubted in certain influential circles. This doubt, some would have us believe, is steadily increasing. It is not our purpose in this lesson to take much space in closely analyzing the situation. Suffice it to say, that we all ought to be watchmen upon the towers of Zion and to take note of the tendencies of our time. Many modern writers hold that primitive Christianity was very credulous, and that people were constantly looking for occurrences bordering on the supernatural. One great Jewish scholar classifies the miracles of the Christ as follows: (1) Miracles due to a wish to fulfill some statement in the Old Testament or to imitate some prophet. (2) Poetical descriptions which, in the minds of the disciples, were transformed into miracles. (3) Illusions. (4) Acts only apparently miraculous. (5) The curing of numerous "nerve-cases." In a few words this represents the type of criticism brought to bear, by modern critics, against the miracles.
3. Miracles Not Performed to Satisfy Idle Curiosity. Our Lord did not perform miracles on any occasion to satisfy the idle curiosity of men. In most instances miracles were performed to alleviate pain and suffering, either mental or physical. They were acts of mercy and kindness extended by the Savior out of pure love and sympathy for His fellow men. How different the attitude of certain Pharisees toward miracles! "Then certain of the scribes and of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee. But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it." (Matthew 12:38-39). The law here enunciated by the Christ in reference to sign seckers is cited by the Prophet Joseph Smith with approval, and he remarks that it is "eternal, undeviating, and firm as the pillars of heaven." (See Parry ? Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 10, 163). In the present dispensation numerous Elders of the Church have had occasion to observe the truthfulness of the Savior's statement. Miracles will never be performed for anything except righteous purposes. In a revelation given March 8, 1831, the Lord speaks in this wise of the gifts of the spirit: "For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts." (Doctrine and Covenants 46:9.)
4. Types of Miracles. The Gospel of John is replete with instances of miracles performed by the Master. In the second chapter of his record John writes, "This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him." (John 2:11.) Near the close of the record, he says, "And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book: but these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name." (John 20:30-31.) John realized the true 249 significance and value of the miracles performed by his beloved Master, and he emphasized them in his writing. The first miracle performed by Christ, the turning of water into wine, is of peculiar interest, because it was performed on a particularly joyous occasion, that of a marriage in Cana of Galilee. (John 2:1-11.) The Christ and His disciples were there, as also was His mother. When the wine ran short, our Lord, in a manner known only to Him, exercised His power by turning water into wine to be used at the feast. There was no ostentation or vain display; it was done to further innocent pleasure and to give to the happy occasion the stamp of His divine approval. Not the least value of the miracle was the fact that it strengthened the faith of His disciples. The miracle reveals to us that the Son of God was not "long-faced" as many moderns would suspect Him to be. He partook of innocent pleasures, and enjoyed seeing others engaged in happy amusements. The healing of the centurion's servant is another type of miracle of which there are at least nineteen recorded in the Gospels. (Luke 7:1-10.) A leader of Roman soldiers had a beloved servant who had become ill, "ready to die." For some reason, unknown to us, the centurion had faith enough to implore the Christ, through Jewish elders, to heal the servant. The Savior yielded to his importunities and started with a small company to the home of the centurion. The latter soon learned of the approaching party and sent messengers to say he was not worthy to have the Master in his home. "But," said he, "say in a word, and my servant shall be healed." The centurion thought in simple terms. If Jesus were really the Christ he could command, even 250 at a distance, and the servant would be healed. Christ was master of the elements even as he, a centurion, was master of a band of Roman soldiers. Christ marveled at his faith and said, 'I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel." (Luke 7:9.) This miracle, like the others that had to do with healing processes, revealed the tender compassion of the Christ for those with physical ailments. In the instance of the centurion there is added significance in the fact that our Lord was willing to heal a Gentile, one outside the body of the chosen people. The mercy and compassion of the Christ is extended to all of God's children, whether in the fold or out of it. The only other type of miracle we shall consider here is that which has to do with the casting out of demons. There are four such instances of great interest mentioned in the Gospels. (See Luke 4:33-37; Matthew 12:22-37; 8:28-34; 17: 14-21). These references will richly repay close study. The power of evil spirits to afflict and torment certain human beings is not generally recognized in the age in which we live. Instructive is it to note that certain evil spirits recognized the Christ and cried out. He rebuked them and commanded them to come out of their victims. In one case (Matthew 17:14-21) the demon refused to come out at the command of the disciples of Christ. When the Master later cast out the demon he had to instruct His followers that some evil spirits "goeth not out but by prayer and fasting." We do not fully understand the powers of the unseen world. This we do know by experience, that faith and prayer, coupled with the powers of the priesthood, can overcome the power of Lucifer just as the Savior demonstrated to His followers long ago. "And Christ truly said unto our fathers: If ye have faith ye can do all things which are expedient unto me." (Moroni 10:23.)
Questions
1. What Article of Faith expresses the belief of the Church with respect to spiritual gifts? Let the class repeat it.
2. Does the Church still have the spiritual gifts that were to be characteristic of it? If so let members of the class relate some incidents that are faith promoting.
3. Are miraculous manifestations confined only to the operations of the priesthood?
4. Why is it usually unwise to broadcast to the public at large the occurrence of miraculous manifestations?
Problems for Further Study (Treat only those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Read carefully Matthew 1]:22- 23; 2:5-6, 14-15, 17-18; 3:13; and John 2:9-11, 23; 4:49-50, 54; 9:16; 20:30. How do the two Gospels differ in method? State as clearly as you can the reason for which you judge each was written.
2. Examine the beliefs of scholars, as the lesson sets forth, in the light of the Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 24:13; 35:8-11; 45:8; 46:21.
3. State the Book of Mormon teaching respecting miracles. Consult 2 Nephi 10:3-4; 26:12-13; Mosiah 3:5-6; 3 Nephi 17:5-10; Mormon 9:15-20.
4, Let the class determine whether or not the performance of miracles is an infallible sign that a man is sent of God.
Teacher's Topic (For June)
THE UNMERCIFUL SERVANT Matthew 18:23-35
"THEREFORE is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants. "And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents: "But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. "The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. "Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt. "But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellow-servants, which owed him an hundred pence; and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. "And his fellow-servant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. "And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. "So when his fellow-servants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done. "Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me: "Shouldest not. Thou also have had compassion on thy fellow-servant even as I had pity on thee? "And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him.