LESSON DEPARTMENT before. On October 17, 1910, she passed to her reward. Bronchitis followed by pneumonia had done its work. "Those who were present at her funeral will not forget it. The flower-decked church, the mourning multitude, the white coffin borne high on the shoulders of eight stalwart grandsons, the words of agelong wisdom and beauty gathered into a parting tribute, the bugle sounding taps as she passed out in her last earthly triumph, the blind children singing round the grave, on which the autumn sun shone with final golden greeting." Questions 1. Name some public questions in which Julia Ward Howe was interested. How did she manifest that interest? 2. How do you think Mrs, Howe would react to the "wars and rumors of wars" of our time? Is it possible that she would be somewhat disappointed at the turn of things? If so, why? 3. Which activity caused her to send statistics from a group of Western States to the London Times? Relate the circumstances. 4. It was Daniel Defoe, the author of Robinson Crusoe, who revealed the value of concrete particulars in writing fiction. This technique borrowed from the novel is made much use of in the literary biography. Note the details in describing Mrs. Howe's costume when 259 she went before the Massachusetts Legislature to plead for "pure milk." 5. The ordinary way of reporting in relation to a degree is to say: that the degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on the candidate; in contrast to such a statement note the picture drawn of the activities at Smith College when Mrs. Howe received the doctorate at their hands. We may expect numerous instances of portraiture in a literary biography. The life of Mrs. Howe has many pen portraits of friends and sometimes as in the case of the degree at Smith of events. In these portraits note the number of carefully selected details that are made use of, 6. We expect felicity of expression in a literary biography. A few examples of unusual and expressive words and phrases are included from the biography. She speaks of the "tear and trot" of her Boston life. Again in discussing a speaker she wrote: 'He insisted upon Mr. Emerson's having been an evolutionist, and unfolded a good deal of his own table cloth along with the mortuary napkin." Again: "I think I am eminent for undertaking ten times more than I can do, and doing about one-tenth of it.' And again: "I must write you at once or my silence will expand into a broad ocean which I shall be afraid to cross." Note: You will find additional material in Julia Ward Howe, by Laura E. Richards and Maud Howe Elliott. Social Service (For Fourth Week in June) Lesson VIII ADVANTAGES OF Group LIFE Text: "Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity! "Tt is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard; that went down to the. Skirts of his garments; "As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion; for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life for evermore." HIS is the 133rd psalm?one | of the songs of David. The lines have been quoted to show the strength and the blessings that may be derived from group life. The psalm is strengthened by the reference to Aaron, the founder of the great Aaronic Priesthood. It suggests that grace and pleasure, the blessings of the Lord, and even life for evermore are all to be derived from group life. The Latter-day Saint Church is organized for constructive strength in group life. It is based upon the hope of goodness in unity. The strength of the mob spirit is the power that it wields over human life and its institutions. This power may be dedicated to a worthy spirit or to a destructive one. Mob strength may be heroic, or it may be beastly. But in either case its power is beyond question. The text deals with the inherent dangers in mob psychology, such as its instability, credulity, unmoral nature regardless of the moral or unmoral nature of Civic Sociology by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XIX. Those who compose it because of its lack of responsibility in and of itself. Because collective action is capable of rising to as great heights as it is of sinking to unpleasant depths, this lesson will be devoted to the strength of organized groups, and to the great capacity for good that lies in organizations which are properly directed. It will be well to study the text to get an understanding of the nature of crowds, mobs and groups. And the distinctions between them, but the thoughts presented here will be in relation to the opposite aspect from that presented by the text. Some types of association help one to develop socially desirable actions while others do not. They have quite the opposite effect. Each individual should seek to cultivate that form of association in group life which will contribute to a finer personal life, and to which he will, in turn, devote something of his best self. A knowledge of group life, of its capacities and limitations for both good and evil is essential to wholesome conduct. The present lesson will emphasize the finer aspects of group life by developing the following points: 1. To show the advantages of group life. 2. To encourage intelligent participation in group life. Collective behavior is one aspect of society which cannot be ignored in any consideration of social science. It is as old as the race itself. The first family was no sooner founded than groups were formed.