- Beatrice Farley Stevens By Stringam A. Stevens NOWN and admired by a host kK of friends for her genial disposition, her sympathetic understanding of human _ nature, her fine instincts for right living and the higher cultural values, and her unfailing optimism, Mrs. Beatrice Farley Stevens comes to the General Board of the Relief Society well equipped to give valuable service to this great organization. She brings with her a profound reverence for the divine origin of the Church and for the authority of its leadership, and a wide understanding of and respect for its institutions and purposes. As an active and enthusiastic worker in the various wards and stakes where she has resided, as a devoted mother, and as the wife of a man whom she has always encouraged to give his best efforts to his varied Church assignments, she has exemplified in her own life the noblest virtues of Latter-day Saint womanhood. COMING from pioneer Latter-day Saint ancestry on both sides of her family, she was born and grew to young womanhood in Ogden, Utah, where she received her early education and musical training. For one year she taught in the Morgan school district and for two years in the Ogden City schools. She was always very active and well known in musical circles in these communities. WHILE a very young girl Mrs. Stevens began her church work as assistant secretary in the M. I. A. Of the Fifth Ward at Ogden. Later she became a teacher in the Sunday School and for several years was a member of the Ogden Tabernacle Choir. MRS. STEVENS is the wife of Stringam A. Stevens, son of the late Bishop Thomas J. Stevens of the Ogden Fifth Ward. In addition to her own personal responsibilities, she has shared in all of the many activities and church assignments which have come to her husband. Mr. Stevens has served, at various times, on stake Sunday School Boards, in three ward Sunday School superintendencies, and in a ward bishopric. During recent years he has been a member of the stake high council and a counselor in the Liberty Stake Presidency. At present he is a member of the Y. M. M. I. A.  where they have since resided, and where Mrs. Stevens has contin-. Ued to devote herself to church work. For several years she was connected with the Primary Association, acting as chorister, class instructor and ward president. For five years she was president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association of the Thirty-third Ward and later was a counselor in the Stake Presidency of that organization in the original Liberty Stake. She has been Gleaner Class Leader and chorister in the Y. W. M. I. A. Of the Thirty-third Ward for the past several years. Although her most recent assignments in church work have not been BEATRICE FARLEY STEVENS in the Relief Society, she has given service to that organization in the capacity of organist, ward teacher, and class instructor. She has learned to know and love the work through the example of her mother, who has given a lifetime of devoted service to that organization. Perhaps Mrs. Stevens' most outstanding service has been in the musical activities of the various organizations. She has had wide experience in training choruses of young people. In addition to writing several songs she has written and produced a number of successful acts ' for M. I. A. Road Shows. One of these acts, "The Magic Bowl," will be remembered by many readers, for it was presented in numerous wards, stakes, and missions throughout the Church. 207 HE new Relief Society board member is the daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Asa C. Farley, formerly of Ogden but now residents of Salt Lake City. She is the mother cf two children,—a daughter Virginia, wife of Dr. H. R. Reichman of Salt Lake City, and a son Robert S. Stevens, who is now serving as a missionary in the British Mission. Although she has been identified with and active in various civic, cultural, and educational organizations for many years, her greatest interests and happiness have been in her home and Church. She has great faith, courage, and ingenuity—characteristics invaluable in facing and overcoming difficulties. Sympathy and kindness are among her outstanding qualities. A MASTER BUILDER PROFESSOR E. H. EASTMOND By Minnie I. Hodapp In chosen words did he define Art's slender, upward-leading line; And clustered these in sunset fires As brightly burnished temple-spires. The rushes by the placid lake Grew animated for his sake; Each stalk and stem and blade of grass, He viewed in fancy's looking-glass. And flowers were ever proud to grace The mantle in his urn or vase; They beckoned to him joyously From hill or field or verdant lea. And he could wield a magic brush: Paint morning glow or twilight-hush, Or sun-kissed snow-peaks which aver The soul's sublime excelsior! His home-sweet-home, a hallowed spot Of heart-ease, mirth, and tender thought, Where with his dear ones he could trace Bright beauty in things commonplace. He heard the voice of peace and trust Faith's lowly whisper from the dust, And vivified for age or youth The pearl of joy, the gem of truth. Lo, characters of ancient fame, Out of the living past they came; Responsive to his wand-like touch, They breathed and spoke and taught us much. He looked on life with royal eyes And bade us glimpse rare Raphael skies; He gave us vistas pure and bright To solace, strengthen, and delight. Disciple of our Latter Day! Truth's message in his heart bore sway! And he proclaimed our Prophet's story In tints and hues. And tones of glory. His inner world was happiness, His life the sweet, supreme success, A master-builder for all time With motive Christ-like and sublime!