Lotta Paul Baxter makes no claim of noteworthy attainment, but to the writer of this article her life is beautiful. Goethe, who was educated to judge the good, the true and the beautiful said, "My teacher taught me that the ideal of beauty is simplicity and repose, hence it follows that no youth can be a master." She is a master. "Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it." THE WOMAN'S PART By Caroline Eyring Miner T is great, and there is no other greatness—to make one nook of God's creation more fruitful, better, more worthy of God; to make some human heart a little wiser, manlier, happier—more blessed, less accursed." So said the great philosopher and historian, Thomas Carlyle, and in making this statement I think he meant to comfort Jane Carlyle, his brilliant, talented wife, who had stood by and sacrificed her possible fame and success for him and his career. He meant likewise to console all women in general who long to accomplish those things that will bring fame and renown but who are held down to home and family burdens and interests. Woman's nook is her home which she must ever strive to beautify, to keep clean and orderly, to make of it a fruitful school wherein her children may grow and develop and love and accomplish. She must strive to make of it a haven of rest and happiness and peace for her husband. If she, the ambitious family woman, succeeds in this, she is great, and the world will so acclaim her. It is a field, never crowded, and worthy the strivings of the most talented woman.
The Gift By Ivy Williams Stone
THE Hanks family had the distinction of being the poorest people in all the various communities where they had temporarily resided. They had the poorest house, the shabbiest clothes, the most children. But by a strange, ironical twist of life's compensations, the finest babies! Strong, sturdy, browneyed youngsters! At one country town, where the nondescript car had breathed its last throb, the Hanks' twins had captured first prize at the baby show. Thus, the family had been enabled to purchase a car slightly less worn than their other one, and to follow the lure of the highway to Littleton. In this "MORMON?" town things had been better. People were kinder, acting as though even poor folks might be human. The "Ligion Lady," as the Hanks' children called the visiting Relief Society Teacher, was most kind. She didn't pick up her skirts and look into corners where she shouldn't. She didn't act better and give curt orders about antiseptics and soap. She never criticized Ellis Hanks because he seldom worked. She didn't smile knowingly when Mrs. Hanks explained that a man might have a broken back and still eat hearty! Why this LIGION LADY even invited them to church, and when Mrs. Hanks went, in her shoes that were much too large and her coat that was much too thin, the Ligion Lady beckoned her and moved over and gave her a seat.
WHENEVER the Ligion Lady, otherwise known as Mrs. Wilson, mother of the beautiful, frail, golden haired little Marjorie Wilson, came to the Hanks' house, the look of hopeless resignation faded momentarily from the beaten eyes of Mrs. Hanks. Mrs. Wilson acted just like another real woman, with problems of rearing children and rustling food. She always took the youngest baby on her lap and made him shout with laughter; she managed to make all the other six Hanks' children smile with the joy of living, their auburn curls and luminous brown eyes and firm hard bodies a testimony to inborn ability to withstand privation. "How I wish they were mine!" The Ligion Lady would whisper, and every time she came she brought each child a gift. Never old, soiled clothing; never poor quality food. The clothing she gave was always clean and whole, with never so much as a button missing! The food was tantalizing, and each visit was followed by flour, or coal, and once shingles on the decrepit roof. And she sent a man to help lay them, remembering the broken back that Mrs. Hanks was always using to shield her husband. And, thanks to the ministrations of this good sister and her sister workers, the last two Hanks' babies had been hospital born. For the first time in her starved, down-trodden existence, Mrs. Hanks had known the joy of clean linen, the assurance of three meals a day, the luxury of a real bed. The nurses had been kind; the two youngest Hanks' babies had lain, side by side, with the children of the rich, superior in physical qualities, on a parity for attention.
ON a certain day in October, as she made her report to the Relief Society President, Sister Wilson looked discouraged. "There's so much sickness in my district," she reported. "One family with scarlet fever; a little boy dangerously ill with an ulcerated tooth, one father with a broken leg. And Mrs. Hanks will be needing hospitalization and another layette in the spring." "What? AGAIN?" Incredulity marked the voice of Sister Meecham. "Why, it was only last year that we sent her. We've scarcely gotten that bill paid." "Again," repeated Sister Wilson. "And it was last year, and the year before that, and maybe it will be next year too. And there's nothing left from the last layette. The only redeeming feature about them is the babies are finely built and strong. And beautiful too. The little girls look like Madonnas. I wish this baby could come to me. I have prayed for another baby for years." "The Lord will provide," methodically Sister Meecham reached for paper and pencil. "Coal and coats for the Larsons. Light bill for old lady Toole. Special shoes for lame Tommy Green. His paralyzed foot is getting shorter and shorter."
SISTER Wilson did not go to the Hanks' house again. And her good intentions about the layette were rudely interrupted when little Marjorie fell ill. The cars of doctors were parked for long stretches of time in front of the Wilson home. And, in spite of doctors, nurses, serums and administrations, the hand of death, bearing infantile paralysis, reached out for the beautiful Marjorie. The grief-stricken, childless parents faced long years of loneliness. Wide eyed and tearless they looked at the delicate body, ravaged by this strange, unfathomable disease. Friends vied with each other to help them in their sorrow; flowers in profusion were sent to the stricken home. At the graveside services, Mrs. Hanks, wearing a hand-me-down coat that was much too thin, and shoes that were much too large, stared at the profusion of flowers, the host of friends. She had been unable to send any flowers; she could offer no solace, and her thwarted soul yearned to extend sisterly sympathy to this woman who had given to the less fortunate so generously. The seven little Hanks, sturdy, hard bodied and beautiful, stood about wide eyed. From a respectful distance they had worshipped this delicate, fair haired little girl, who seemed to them like an angel.
As the days slipped by Mrs. Hanks formed a resolution. In all her years, this Ligion Lady was the one person who had treated her as an equal; as a real human. Surely the Lord would open the way for her to return this kindness. Thus, for an unexplained reason, Mrs. Hanks refused hospitalization for her eighth baby. She declined the proffered layette; but accepted with her usual humility the donations of miscellaneous clothing that various people sent. There were woolen baby shirts, somewhat shrunken; blankets that had accidentally been boiled; paling bunnies, slips and dresses of varying lengths. Whenever a package smelled suspiciously of soap and antiseptics, Mrs. Hanks laid it aside without bothering to open it. This eighth baby should conform to the old time standards of living as maintained by the Hanks' before their arrival in Littleton.
ON an evening in April Mr. Hanks came home jubilant and debonair. The air was full of the odors of spring; he had sighted a flock of wild geese migrating northward. The work of his particular project was finished, and there would be a temporary lull before the next project would need laborers. The highway lured and beckoned; the coins from his last check jingled in his pocket; the vision of further regular employment faded. A nostalgia for revolving wheels, gasoline and roadside camp grounds overpowered him. Three years in this one town had been too much. There were still many places Mr. Hanks had never seen. As soon as Ma was able to travel, they would move on. Having made his decision and feeling mentally relieved thereby, Mr. Hanks ran a joyous hand through his thick, auburn curls, revealing the cowlick that necessitated a side part. Perhaps, if this coming baby proved to be twins again, they could win another prize and buy a larger car! Mrs. Hanks recognized her husband's symptoms as readily as if they had been chicken pox or mumps. He took them spasmodically, but always they were the same. She sighed resignedly, and felt only surprise that she had been permitted to stay three years in Littleton among the kindly Mormons.
THE eighth Hanks baby was born in the small, dilapidated house, unattended except by Mr. Hanks and the eldest daughter. Wrapped in the illy matched garments, a fat, plump, curly haired little girl began life in a decrepit baby basket, one of two that had been donated. Unmindful of her handicap of birth, she slept peacefully, while her brothers and sisters gazed at her without wonder. Babies had long since ceased to be a novelty in their lives. Mr. Hanks spread his shoulders a trifle wider—the vision of the rolling highway was a little closer, and one more could readily be adapted to the accommodating auto.
A WEEK later the Hanks were ready to move. In the temporary absence of the others, Mrs. Hanks packed the baby in one of the two baskets; in the other she packed some valueless cartons. Then she took an old faded quilt, that had never known a bath, tore it in two and tucked a half over each of the two baskets. "We have to pack a new baby warm," she told the family, "Spring air mightn't be so good for her. This here other basket has some things we don't need, and I want to leave 'em with the Ligion Lady. Maybe there'll be other folks come to live here, that she'll want to help." In the middle of the night they were ready to start. Mr. Hanks wanted to be out on the long, open highway by the break of day. He loved to roll along as the sun came up; also he did not want any meddling officer of one of those relief projects to order him to another job. Somewhat irked at the delay, he drove into town at Mrs. Hanks insistence, to deposit the battered basket with the Wilson's. But a woman could be set in her ways, and realizing this, he toyed with the dog while Mrs. Hanks carried the basket to the front porch of the Wilson home, and set it carefully within the shelter of the porch wall. Then, with the friendly wind sweeping through his uncovered, uncombed, auburn locks, Mr. Hanks drove joyously on, his worldly wealth of children packed around him in the moaning car.
THE hastily summoned friends stood about the Wilson living room, as Mrs. Wilson, her eyes shining, the love of life again in her every movement, told and retold the story. "I was awakened by a funny little cry. Like someone shut in. I—I listened, and it came again. I followed the direction of the sound. God had heard my prayers! There, in this decrepit old basket lay the darling. A beautiful, little girl. O Sister Meecham, bring the layette the Relief Society made for Mrs. Hanks. Sister Brown, bring over your basinette! I cannot wait to get the darling bathed and properly clothed. Look at her lovely brown eyes, her plump hard body, her auburn curls!" "Who in the world could have left you a baby?" queried an inquisitive soul. "Who, I wonder?" parried Mrs. Wilson, with shining eyes. In her hand she held a crumpled, soiled scrap of paper on which had been written, in laboriously scrawled letters: "TO THE LIGION LADY."
TOLERANCE By Bertha A. Kleinman
Than courage for some far-off circumstance, Than fortitude for tasks remote and strange, More patience give me and more tolerance, For those I love, for those at closer range; More lenient I would be when others fail, When things go wrong that are not mine to mend, With prejudice and scorn of no avail— There would I train my verdict to suspend; Than wisdom, rather let me supplicate For patience and forbearance to condone; Than judgment in the weighty things of state More kindness let me culture for my own; I shall be wise when I can tolerate! I shall be just and all the rest can wait!
TAKE UP YOUR CROSS By Christie Lund
Shoulder your cross and bear it up the hill, There shall be strength enough, If there is faith, if courage like a still Star shining makes smooth the places rough. Take up your cross and know that God is good, Know that the dawn is mothered by the night; Know that your soul will soon stand undismayed Invincible upon this same hill's height.
Cross Questions By Agnes Just Reid
"DADDY, do you know that our little girl is smoking cigarettes?" There was an exercise of throat clearing, much rattling of a newspaper, then with a calmness that was not altogether convincing: "Well, yes, I have suspected it for some time." "Don't you care?" "Care? Of course I care. I haven't thought of anything else for weeks," "Why have you never mentioned it to me?" "Many times I have failed to mention such things to you, Margaret; you are so unreasonable. I remember that you cried until you were hysterical when you first heard that the Barret girl was smoking and she was only the daughter of a friend. I supposed when you heard this it would so upset you that it would make you ill. I felt I could not be the one to tell you." "Didn't you think I'd find out sometime? "Yes, I knew you were bound to find out sometime. It is only because of your complete trust that you have not found it out before. Her fingers show it. I've been trying to find a different job for her. The girls, where she is working now, all smoke and I suppose they were always reminding her that she could not do it because of her religion. I hoped if she got back with the kind of girls she went through school with, she would be as ashamed to smoke as she is ashamed to not smoke where she is. Loraine has always been too much inclined to follow the crowd." "Oh, Frank, I know that is true. Her favorite saying has always been "When in Rome, do as Rome does.' I never wanted her to work in that terrible office. I hate everything about it. What a failure I have been as a mother! "No, no," Frank assured, putting his arm around her. "It has been the hope of my life, from the time I heard her first cry, that she would go on a mission. I can't ever hold my head up again. I am disgraced in the sight of God and my friends," "There, there, Margaret, don't feel so bad about it. Lots of girls smoke. There are really worse things than smoking." "Yes, I know there are worse things than smoking but if every girl in the world smoked, the fact that our girl does would still be the same shock to me. God has entrusted her to you and to me. If she has disregarded the teachings of the Church and of our home, we have failed Him." "Oh, my darling, I'd hardly say that. Loraine is a fine girl. Yesterday you would have been incensed if anyone would suggest that she is not perfect. She is still the same girl. She does not think smoking is wrong when so many other girls do it." "Doesn't she? Well, then why did she try to keep me from knowing it?" "That is just because she knows what a fuss you will make about it." "No, I will not make a fuss about it. It is a hurt too deep for words. I dread to talk to her about it, but down deep in my heart I shall always know that something of her purity has been polluted. She has followed the crowd instead of her conscience. Something of the trust that I have felt in her all these twenty-five years of her life has been destroyed. I can never feel sure of her again. Always I shall be asking myself: 'When it comes to drinking will she follow the crowd? When it comes to breaking all of the commandments, will she follow the crowd? Has she lost the power to say no?" Margaret was sobbing hopelessly. "Oh, don't say that, sweetheart. She does not know how hard you are taking it. She should understand how you feel." "Who should understand how she feels?" Said a young voice behind them. Loraine had slipped in quietly thinking they were in bed. Her mother lifted a pitiful tear stained face from her father's shoulder. "What is it, Mommie dear, has someone been mean to you? "Yes, life has." "Life, mother? I do not understand. You are always so filled with the joy of life." "Until tonight, yes, but the joy has gone from it." She was sobbing again. Loraine thoroughly concerned, turned to her father. "Tell me what is the matter? Who has hurt my mother this way?" "You have." "I have? What have I done?" "Shall I tell you, or can you guess?" Something in her father's searching look carried the thought to her and the color left her face. "Who told you mother?" She asked in a strained voice. "No one told her. She just knows and it is breaking her heart." "Oh, my darling, sweet mother. God forgive me for ever bringing sorrow to you. I thought you'd never know. Why was I ever such an idiot?" Her father reached out his free hand and pulled her down beside them on the couch. "Loraine," he said, "there is a new job waiting for you with Arms and Jenkins. You'll be back with Peggy and Jean, the best friends you ever had. You can go to work there tomorrow. Don't you think for your mother's sake, for my sake, you can leave all of your mistakes of yesterday back at the old office and begin anew?" There was a long silence during which his two best loved clung to him and sobbed, then with her wet cheek against his, Loraine whispered: "God helping me, I will," and her mother leaned over and kissed her trustingly.
REJUVENATION By Emma Rigby Coleman
O, might I walk with God today, For springtime breezes fill the air; The earth is being born again And everything is freshly fair. He seems each spring to recreate, From dormant sod, a world anew. Just as His Son on Calvary's Cross Brought life, through death, for me and you!
A Man And His Idea By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
"The great thing in life is not where we are but in what direction we are moving."— O. W. Holmes.
In recounting pioneer experiences, particularly those that brought culture and refinement into desolation and poverty, we are inclined to think of women only as having made supreme effort. The story of how Ephraim, Utah, secured a library is the story of a man and the growth of his idea. Fort Ephraim was, undoubtedly, like other frontier towns in eighteen hundred seventy-three and four. It was a long way from centers of learning. A long way even from its parent city, Salt Lake City. But where it was mattered little for it was moving in the right direction, and the direction was toward greater cultural opportunities. It came about in this way:
EPHRAIM had the same problem that all towns, modern or frontier, have to face, that of what to do with their idle young people. Unlike some towns Ephraim had a man who recognized the situation and set about to remedy it. That man was A. C. Neilson, a returned missionary, and undoubtedly a man who loved and understood youth. About him he gathered the boys of the town from fifteen to twenty years of age. Like most frontier towns it was a composite group but being Ephraim it would have a more than average number of Scandinavians. It was in November, 1874, that Mr. Neilson organized the boys into a study group. They studied theology mostly, for there was small chance to study anything else. The class met in a building known as the South Ward School House. It stood where the Folmer Bertleson store now stands. The boys studied hard all winter but when spring came they were ready for action. What was there in this outpost of civilization that boys could do that they liked and still make money? A committee was appointed and after looking into various probabilities decided to burn lime. That was something everyone needed and something they could do. A scouting party was sent out and they found just the right place at the mouth of the canyon back of Ephraim. There they could get wood, pine and cedar, to burn and plenty of blue lime rock to be burned. They could have gone back and forth from home but that wouldn't have been nearly as much fun as camping out. So in a protected cove in the canyon they built camp. Under Mr. Neilson's direction a kiln was built. While some of the boys worked on it others hauled wood and rock. It took about four weeks to complete the kiln and burn the rock. Then it had to stand another two weeks to cool before it could be taken out and sold. There was no question about market for in those days everyone used lime. They used it to disinfect wheat for smut, to spray trees, to whitewash their houses and for numerous other things where a disinfectant was needed. During the six weeks the lime was in the making the evenings were spent in study and recreation. Their wise leader saw to it that they had something to take up their time and energy. The lime when taken out was in white powder form as the commercial product is known today. That was their beginning. With the money earned from the lime they broke up twenty acres of land and seeded it to wheat. This land had been homesteaded by A. C. Neilson and was given by him to the boys for their venture. They did so well with it they bought a threshing machine and called it the Young Men's Threshing Machine. They ran it for ten years. At that time Sanpete was known as the granary of Utah, producing as much as 250,000 bushels of wheat a year. So there was plenty of work for their machine and their profits grew.
IT was in 1874, too, when they began work on their library. When the money for the lime began to come in they spent some of it for room rent and put what books they had in it for the public to use. They canvassed the town for donations. Something to read, that was their big cry. Some two or three hundred books were donated. Beyond a doubt most of them were serious in tone for people did not carry trash that long thousand miles across the plains. Human energy was too precious and then trashy books had not yet seen their heyday. Yet in packing for the West many book lovers had tucked away volumes that were invaluable to them. To add to the donated books the boys bought reference works. Now Mr. Neilson's idea had really begun its growth. They had a library. From the first it was a success. In 1882 the group sold their land for about thirty dollars an acre and the profits were used for the library. The City Council pleased with the splendid effort, took over the project and provided more room and means. By this time the Y. M. M. I. A. Organization had reached Ephraim. When the city council took over the responsibility for the library they chose C. R. Dorius to direct the work. Mr. Dorius had been one of Mr. Neilson's boys and taken part in the project from its inception. At the time he was chosen for the library work he was President of the Mutual organization, Under his direction the work grew in extent and power. In 1912, largely through the work of A. W. Jensen, an attorney of Ephraim, a sum of $10,000 was secured from the Carnegie Foundation toward the erection of a building. P. D. Jensen was mayor and through his leadership and enthusiasm the building was started the next spring. It was completed in 1914. Since then it has made even greater strides than its founders dreamed of. It has today nearly eight thousand books, three newspapers and fifty-two periodicals. It has nearly twenty-five hundred borrowers who have cards. It averages a loan of 1098 books a day. Mr. Dorius is still with it as President of the Board. There is no way of computing the good Mr. Neilson has done by putting an idea into action but it is comforting to know that at least one man who was with it in the beginning has lived to see its fulfillment.
LESSONS By Ida May
In fifty years I've learned—a minute Has always sixty seconds in it. Twice twelve hours every day Use them, waste them as one may. To high or low, to rich or poor 'Tis never less, 'tis never more. A kindly act of some one hour Has in its grasp undreamed of power. The petty meanness of a second Returns to be both weighed and reckoned. For human love means more to me Than all the sky and earth and sea.
SPRING RHAPSODY By Grace Zenor Pratt
Your loveliness is all too poignant, Earth, Your beauty shakes my soul, striving to hold The sweetness of this springtime rhapsody. I would distill your fragrance, color, harmony, For some eternal memory, to keep within this heart, Forever more.... Just yesterday, it seems, by river's brink, I saw The pussy-willows bend on silver spray; 'Twas Spring! I hushed the eager song upon my lips. And bowed my head to pray... Today, a green hill calls across a valley wide,— A cherry tree, dressed like a lovely bride, Beckons to me... And here, a mocking bird spills liquid melody From out his tiny quivering throat... Pure silver, note on joyous note...... He may have sung to the wide world, you say— But ah, he sang this song for me, alone, today. I see the hawthorn's waxen buds unfold, exquisitely — A dog-wood, misty-white upon a hill; I glimpse an almond bloom, rose-pink upon a bough... The lush green meadows, tulips in the grass,... And weeping willows whisper as I pass. A row of new-leaved poplars, straight and tall Against a sunset sky, can hurt one so... I wonder why... A breath of lilac fragrance from a hedge Can bring quick tears in Spring, when one is passing by. The muted music of the sea and earth and sky is minor When hearts are all too willing to be glad, A bit of nature's melody can make them sad With its eternal mystery. O Earth, you are so beautiful, today... My voice is stilled... I cannot bear to sing, nor speak, But silent—pray.
INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84107
He Finally Said "Yes" By Olive S. Felt
THE question was somewhat different from that to which a girl usually says "yes," but few swains ever toiled longer or harder nor were they more deserving of that word. It happened this way: When we bought our home four years ago there was an apple tree in the northwest corner of our back yard. It meant well, but it was overdoing things. It was losing all regard for anything in its way. One branch was interfering with a tall and beautiful arbor vitae tree, another limb was crushing down a dividing rose fence; and still another was disregarding all propriety of the art of staying "in your own back yard." I registered these faults when we moved in, but it being winter, I decided to wait and give the tree a chance to redeem itself during the green season. The vision of an apple tree in full bloom softened me somewhat, especially when that vision ripened into heaps of luscious apples. That would be something on a city lot. But imagine my disappointment the next spring when only four or five branches bloomed. I told my husband it was a bit out of place and should be taken out. He said, "No, it is good shade and covers the bareness of that corner." I said no more, for our back yard did give us comparative privacy.
THE next spring I felt repaid for sparing its life. It bloomed forth in all the glory that only an apple tree can. I anticipated gathering in shelves of golden apples. But to my horror, before the summer was over, there was not an apple left upon that tree. They had fallen, fallen, fallen, and lay in a yellow, wormy, rotting mass upon the ground. And they had utter disregard as to where they fell. In the neighbors' yards, among the flowers, and on the lawn; but when one had the audacity to seek out my head as a place to light, well—. I looked over that rotting mess, and resolved that it should never happen again. I spoke in this strain to my husband who merely repeated what he had said before.
THE winter cooled me off a bit, and by spring I thought little more about it. I was busy on the front yard. Then one day it happened! A man came to help with odd jobs and while I was directing him my eyes fell upon that tree. Without the least thought of consequence I said, "First, I'd like you to take out that apple tree." The telephone called me back into the house and it was half an hour before I went out again. Horror! Was that our back yard? That place with that gaping, open corner? The whole neighborhood seemed to be gazing and grinning through it. My heart sank. Could one tree make such a difference? I was heart sick. Couldn't it be planted again? I was in agony. It would take years to grow a tree in its place. The man saw what I saw and said, "I wondered if you'd like it." I walked toward all that fallen majesty and there appeared the face of my neighbor on the west. "I'm so glad you have cut it down," she said, "it was a bother in driving our car in and out of the garage, and it was ruining the fence." I directed the man to dispose of the tree and went back into the house. I dreaded my husband's homecoming. What could I say? I tried to build up a line of defense, but it was useless. I had none. So I decided to be very busy. Being busy might help me to bear the onslaught when it came. But it didn't come. In its place was stony silence. I ventured a few questions on the weather and his sick patients, but the words froze in mid-air. I really had not taken his "no" seriously. It had been given rather casually, I thought. Now I could see through its lightness. He had not taken me seriously. He had given me credit for better sense.