LESSON DEPARTMENT good, it necessitates great and fine leadership. But the quality for splendid leadership in the Latter-day Saint Church has been so effectively demonstrated for good that it has excited notable comment by openminded people throughout the world. Since the leaders in this Church are chosen from the ranks of its members, it behooves each member to prepare himself for leadership and intelligent group participation. The Church has been organized on a basis that offers tremendous educational and cultural advantages as well as the opportunity for profound spiritual and religious growth. Consequently, the Mormon way of life not only gives, it asks that many shall serve. And the vitality of group life in the Church depends upon intelligent participation in the group and conscientious preparation for whatever position of leadership one may be asked to fill. Important lessons for the welfare of ward organizations may be drawn from an understanding of group movements, Ward authorities should aim to develop greater and more numerous bonds of unity among members and to lessen petty jealousies and discordant influences. The Apostle Paul expressed this thought in his message to the Corinthians when he said, "Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment." (I Cor. 1:10.) The common religious inheritance and beliefs should be sufficient for unity when individuals are spending only a part of their time in Church activities. Missionaries, who devote their whole time to teaching the principles of the Gospel, are held together inseparably while so engaged. The bond is 263 unbreakable when life is patterned upon such a common ideal of devotion. But with those whose major energies are devoted to the economic struggle for existence, the religious bond may become weakened. But with such a great religious inheritance as Mormonism provides, people should seek to become united. Areas of common experiences should be sought and created to meet situations of weakened religious force because of variations in economic interests. People seek amusement ?they must have leisure time activities. They naturally associate with those whose desires and experiences are similar to their own as they strive to adjust to a changing world. Sympathy, common interests, and mutual customs act like magnets to draw people together, while opposite interests, thoughtless and unkind criticism, are not conducive to close companionship. If ward authorities keep these principles in mind, many people who might otherwise be outside the immediate fold of the Church may become vitally interested. ALTHOUGH it is possible to nourish and develop our minds with religious and spiritual information by means of radio sermons, the influence of the group spirit is thus lacking, and there is no opportunity for the development of the strength and unity of thought and feeling that arises when kindred souls meet. Sermons by radio enjoyed in the quietness of the home will never be an adequate substitute for the general meetings of a religious organization conducted by the constituted authorities of the Church. Religious fervor is a group product and is contagious. Wholesome group life is enhanced by desirable forms of association. Each individual should seek to improve his own social standing and to 264 add to his own happiness by consciously striving to participate in those groups which will further his highest ideals. Activities 1. Some fraternal orders have developed a form of group loyalty which induces individual members to give mutual support even under most adverse conditions. Compare, as far as you are able, the causes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of that group loyalty with the causes of group loyalty in your own ward. 2. Compare the advantages to be gained by listening to a sermon on the radio in your home and listening to the same sermon in a regular meeting in your own ward. 3. Why is it that police officials generally attempt to control crowd and mob spirit by keeping the people on the move? Murray Laundry "MORE LEISURE HOURS FOR WOMEN" Send Us Your Blankets and Quilts Let us wash them now so they will be ready for use next Winter They are washed in "RAIN SOFT ARTESIAN WATER" PHONE?HY. 612?MURRAY 213 SUMMER SESSION 1937 June 14-July 23; Post Session July 26-August 20 Offers courses in physical and biological sciences, languages and literature, speech correction and dramatics, history and _ political science, economics, sociology and social work, education, psychology, philosophy, physical education and hygiene, art, music, typing and stenography, home economics. Daily public lectures by eminent educators. Dr. Erle F. Young, Professor Sociology and Social Work, University of Southern California, will give six weeks courses as follows: Sociology 130, The Fundamentals of Social Work Sociology 151, The Principles of Social Case Work Sociology 152, Psychiatric Aspects of Case-Work Dr. Young is an outstanding national authority on Social Work. Note also the Institute of Public Affairs June 28-July 2, inclusive. Write for bulletin, Address The President UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City