efficient. Besides equipment, water, soap and agitation are the trio that gets clothes clean. For supplies as soap, water softener, starch, bluing, stain removers, etc., it costs from 20c to 50c per week, while utilities, as water, gas, electricity or other fuel LESSON DEPARTMENT will vary from 40c to 75c per week. And labor whether hired or your own time from 30c per hour to $1.25 per day. If water is hard, softeners are necessary but must be used carefully and in combination with soap for best results. There are several kinds, such as borax, washing soda or sal soda, sodium hydroxide or lye, and trisodium phosphate. These vary in effectiveness and cost. If used excessively they weaken the fibre of the clothes and turn them yellow. Remember, too, that softeners must be given time to react with the mineral salts in the water. After the curds have formed, skim them off before adding soap. They react better in hot than cold water. There are many types of soap on the market as the bar, flake, chips, beads, powder, all of which may contain little or much free alkali. Some also contain substances other than soap. A good quality contains little if any free alkali. Always use hot water and thoroughly dissolve soap then add cold water to make proper temperature. A good soap solution with a standing suds of at least two inches is best for proper cleaning. It penetrates the fabric and picks up the grease and soil and by means of agitation keeps it separated from other particles so that it can be floated off by the suds. If the suds dies down the dirt falls back into the fabric which results in grimy looking and streaked clothes. Soaking them too long in soapy water has the same effect. Some knowledge of textiles is necessary in order to do a good job of cleansing them. The different kinds and their characteristics have been given in previous lessons; these will determine the method of handling in washing. For the ordinary family wash which consists mainly of cotton fabrics, the following method will give clean, sweet, 253 white clothes and clear, bright colored ones. First sort, placing all of one kind together, such as table linen, bath towels, etc., and remove all stains: Soften water if necessary, and remove skum or strain out precipitate, add enough soap to make permanent standing two inch suds. Make first water luke warm. Wash five to fifteen minutes in machine, depending on kind of clothes and amount of soil. Do not overload machine. Leave room for water to swish through clothes. Wring out into second hot water prepared the same as first. It acts as a bleach. Rinse thoroughly in three waters using plenty each time to remove all particles of lint and soap. The first quite warm or hot, the second luke warm, and the third cool. Use bluing in third if desired, and rinse one piece at a time to prevent streaking. Starch if necessary, and hang in sun, when possible, to dry. Colored cotton should be treated the same way except that the second suds water needs to be cooler, and they should be dried in shade. To insure easy and quick ironing, proper hanging out and removing from line are important. All flat pieces as table cloths, sheets, towels, if placed half way over line with crease in center lengthwise and edges together, can be folded as removed, and will avoid many wrinkles which later have to be ironed out. Bath towels need no ironing. They retain more moisture if not, but if dried straight can be folded evenly and put away. All clothes are easier ironed if dampened with warm water long enough before hand to allow moisture to be evenly distributed. Sheets carefully washed, hung and dried, will require three minutes to iron on an electric ironer. Blankets and other woolen articles require luke warm water for washing and all rinsing, twice as 254 much soap as other fabrics, and very little agitation. Too hot water and rubbing of one fibre against another causes shrinkage. Dry in a little breeze to make soft and fluffy. Silks RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and synthetic fabrics require quick, gentle handling, with mild soap and good suds. Rinse thoroughly and roll in towel and iron while damp with medium hot iron.
Literature (For Third Week in June) Lesson IX
JULIA WARD HOWE
DURING the period of adjustment after her marriage Mrs. Howe's daughters say of her that: "Humanity, her husband's faithful taskmistress, had not yet set her to work, and the long hours of his service left her lonely, and the babies once in bed?at a loss." No one would have guessed in the latter part of Julia Ward Howe's life that such a thing was ever true; for her life became a symbol for practically all the great public movements involving women as well as many that involved both men and women. She had turned to public work after the death of "little Sammy." Then there came changes in the home that were sudden. The Howe home was one of intense activity. Mrs. Howe always played for her children to dance except on rare occasions when they had an orchestra in the home. She loved parties. Her husband once said that were she cast off on an island with none other than a colored servant she would find occasion for a party. Three of her daughters were married within a few months of each other, and the son married somewhere near the same time; so that her youngest daughter Maud was the only child left at home. Dr. Howe's health had begun to fail; "instead of lecture or concert came the ever-shortening walk with the Doctor," and evening games, "which lightened a little his burden of pain and weariness. Yet she was preparing on January 4, 1876, to keep a lecture engagement of long standing, when the blow fell. He was stricken down, and lay for some days insensible, waiting the final summons." "There was no hope of his recovery; those around him waited patiently, any violence of grief held in check by the silent rebuke of the serene face on the pillow." The day after his death she wrote in her journal: "Before breakfast went into Chev's room, so sweet and peaceful... I laid my lace veil, my bridal veil, upon the head of his bedstead... In place of my dear husband I have now my foolish papers. Yet I have often left him for them. God accept the poor endeavor of my life!" After the memorial meeting in his honor she writes: "Yesterday seems to have filled the measure of the past. Today I must forward in the paths of the future! How shall I deserve ever to see him again?" She had the pleasure of writing his biography soon after his death, It was in a condensed form so that LESSON DEPARTMENT it could be put in Braille for the blind. _ A final word before we leave this union of two great and highly gifted people. They had spent a season at Green Peace with their grandchildren just before Dr. Howe's illness settled upon him. They had much joy with their grandchildren in and about Green Peace just as they had had with their children before. "It was a changed world without that great and dominant personality. She missed the strength on which she had leaned for so many years." Looking back over her long life she is seen in three aspects: "those of * the student, the artist, and the reformer. First came youth with its ardent study; then maturity, with its output of poems, plays, essays. So far she had followed the natural course of creative minds, which must absorb and assimilate in order that they may give out. It is in the third phase that we find the aspect of her later life, a clear vision of the needs of humanity, and a profound hospitality which made it imperative for her to give with both hands not only what she had inherited, but what she had earned." "THE first public cause espoused by her was that of peace. "Study no longer sufficed; the need of serving humanity actively, hand and foot, pen and voice, was now urgent." Why she asked, "do not the mothers of mankind interfere in these matters, to prevent the waste of that human life of which they alone bear and know the cost?... The august dignity of motherhood and its terrible responsibilities now appeared to me in a new aspect, and I could think of no better way of expressing my sense of these than that of sending forth an appeal to 255 womanhood throughout the world, which I then and there composed." The appeal bears the date of September, 1870. Mrs. Howe was then fifty-one years of age. On her fifty-second birthday she wrote: "The great joy of the Peace Idea has unfolded itself to me." It had given her great joy to work for it. Forty years more stretched before her crowded to the very brim with work for others. In the spring of 1872 she went to England, hoping to hold a Woman's Peace Congress in London. In London she had "the privilege" of attending a "great Prison Reform" meeting. "In 1843 Julia the bride would not have considered it a privilege to attend a meeting for prison reform. She would have shrugged her shoulders, would perhaps have pouted because the Chevalier cared more for these things than for the opera... Now, she stood in the place that failing health forbade him to fill, with a depth of interest, an earnestness of purpose, equal to his own. She, too, now heard the sorrowful sighing of the prisoners." In 1876 there was a great peace meeting in Philadelphia. "There were delegates from France, Italy, and Germany, each with a burning desire to be heard, and all worth hearing, but none able to speak English. There was a call for Mrs. Howe. The German, Frenchman, and Italian stood in turn by her side. At the proper moment she lifted a finger, and then gave in her perfect English each speech in full to the delight of the delegates and the admiration of all. Her presence, it is said, turned a meeting from a threatened failure to a noble success." Her work for peace ended only with her life. Two years after her death the last celebration of her Mother's Day, for that is what she 256 liked to call these meetings, "was held in Riverton, New Jersey, on June 1, 1912, by the Pennsylvania Peace Society in conjunction with the Universal Peace Union. On the printed invitation to this festival we read: 'Aid it, paper, aid it, pen, Aid it, hearts of earnest men. ?Julia Ward Howe, 1874, And further on, 'Thirty-nine years ago Julia Ward Howe instituted this festival for peace?A time for the women and children to come together, and pray and work' for those things that make for peace." Then, too, the Association for the Advancement of Women was near and dear to her. It finally resolved itself into the General Federation of Women's Clubs. In its first form she had been its president for twenty-five years. She always planned to attend the yearly as well as the Biennial Meeting. Late in her life we find her rushing by automobile from the Biennial Meeting to Newport where a reception was being held for some delegates on their way home. She worked with full strength for the admission of women to the colleges. There was much opposition. "Still the patient hands knocked, the earnest voice called; till at length ?being friends as well as foes inside?slowly with much creaking and many forebodings, the great doors opened; a crack, then a space, till today they swing wide, and the Higher Education of Women now stands firm as the Pyramids."