Motto—Charity Never Faileth

Vol. XXIV APRIL, 1937 No. 4
Editorial
Sacrament Meeting
ALL too few of our people sense the great importance of attendance at Sacrament meeting. It is a commandment of our Father that we should meet often and partake worthily of the emblems of the broken body and spilt blood of our Redeemer. Only unavoidable things should keep Latter-day Saints away from this service.
MANY do not seem to sense that the primary object of attendance at Sacrament meeting is that the soul may be spiritually fed through the partaking of the Sacrament, worshipping God, and holding in constant remembrance the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. So many are now expecting some fine musical feature or some extra good speaker, otherwise they fail to attend. If older women take this attitude, what can we expect of their sons and daughters?
ONE time a young girl after attending Sacrament meeting said, "Well, I didn't get much out of that meeting." Her mother rebuked her by saying, "Then you didn't take much to it. You always bring away in proportion to what you take. If you went seeking spiritual light and to worship and partake worthily of the Sacrament, you would come away enriched."
ALL too often there is lacking as strong a spirit of worship in these gatherings as there should be. We sometimes wish that we could get the reverent attitude that many of the people of the world have in assembling in their churches where they earnestly pray and seek for things of the spirit.
AT a ward conference recently one of the presidency of the stake pointed out that Sacrament 246 meetings are not only for adults but also for children. He urged parents to bring their boys and girls to the Lord's House on the Sabbath that they may be built up and renewed and form the habit of attending these important meetings. Mothers, are you taking your boys and girls with you on the Sabbath Day to the Sacrament meeting? I have observed our Bishop's children from the time they were babies accompa