Then their Centenaries overtook her: Longfellow, Whittier, Holmes, Dr. Howe; she wrote a poem for each in turn. Her birthdays! Her seventieth, eightieth, and ninetieth were celebrated in appropriate manner and many in between. There were flowers from many sources and many expressions of appreciation; for not only was she remembered by those who loved and honored her but by those who honored and loved her husband. On her eighty-sixth birthday they had a festival modelled on the Welsh Ejistedfodd. The poets came with tributes in verse. Robert Grant wrote: "If man could change the universe By force of epigrams in verse, He'd smash some idols, I allow. But who would alter Mrs. Howe?" HE wrote frequently for magazines. From many angles hers was a teeming life. Shortly before her death she was asked to write an "article on the three greatest persons she had known. She wrote of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Theodore Parker, and her own beloved "Chev," Dr. Samuel G. Howe. In the autumn of 1909 she was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and in December she wrote a poem called The Capitol, which she wanted to read at its first meeting. Her daughter Maud felt it unwise for her to attempt the trip to Washington, but finally agreed to accompany her. Its officers, William Dean Howells, 258 Robert Underwood Johnson, and Thomas Nelson Page telegraphed begging her not to run the risk of the journey. "Ha!" she flashed out, "They think I am too old, but there's a little ginger left in the old blue jar!" In March she was ailing. "Dr. Langmaid came, pronounced her lungs sound as a brass drum. Thereupon she wrote a poem for the centenary of James Freeman Clarke." Just before her ninety-first birthday which was shortly before her death the question of pure milk was before the Massachusetts Legislature, and was being hotly argued. A message by telephone urged Mrs. Howe to say a word for the good cause. The hearing was in progress. She asked for a half hour to prepare; but before the time was over her speech was sketched and she dressed "'in her best flowered silk cloak and her new lilac hood, a birthday gift from a poor seamstress." She sat through many speeches; finally she was called to speak. It was noticed no oath was required of her. "You may remain seated, Mrs. Howe," said the chairman. "I prefer to stand," she replied. "We have heard," said she, "a good deal about the farmers' and the dealers' side of this case... There is one deeply interested in this matter from whom we have not heard. I am here to speak for him: the infant!" "The effect was electrical. In a silence charged with deepest feeling all listened as to a prophetess, as step by step she unfolded the case of the infant as against farmers and dealers." "As Arthur Delion Hill, counsel for the Pure Milk Association, led her from the room, he said, 'Mrs. Howe, you have saved the day!'" May brought the ninety-first RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE birthday. She was deluged with flowers and messages. Early in June she was preparing to go to Oak Glen where she usually spent the summer with her daughter Florence. She had a fall and broke a rib. Then came October. She was to receive the degree of Doctor of Laws from Smith College. She had already two such degrees, one from Tufts College and one from Brown University, her husband's alma mater. Wednesday, October 5, 1909, was a perfect day. "She was early dressed in her white dress, with the college gown of rich black silk over it, the 'mortar-board' covering in like manner her white lace cap. Thus arrayed, a wheeled chair conveyed her to the great hall, already packed with visitors and graduates, as was the deep platform with college officials and guests of honor.