I HAD to do something, but what? A few days passed. Then with seeming nonchalance I asked him what he thought would look well in that corner. No help! Did he think this or that tree would grow there? Still no help! Finally, in desperation, I went to our gardener. Oh blessed relief! "A pergola covered with silver lace vine will do it," he said. "A flat top pergola. My budget allowed for very little over necessities. Should I hire a man to come and do it? No, I would do it myself. I made my plans and went to work. We had taken down a long pole once used as an aerial. I sawed that into four 8 ft. lengths and tarred about 1¼ ft. up one end of each. I had to buy the 2x4's for the connecting "beams" on top, but I bought used pieces and it cost me very little. I lived close to a lumber yard and could get all I needed of their trimmings for nothing. These I used for the lattice work. Some of them were strong enough for perpendicular reinforcements between the corner 4x4's. The holes were easy to dig, for the ground was loose where the tree had been dug up. I buried the tarred ends and stamped them in securely. The front two stood about 8 ft. apart, and the back ones about 7 ft. apart. The floor space was about 5 ft. deep. I was anxious to get the vines started so I planted them then. I wanted to buy three, but my gardener said two would do, so I reluctantly took his word. Those plants seemed to sense my anxiety, for how they did grow! (I think my gardener sensed something, too, for he gave me big strong plants.) I went on with the pergola. I nailed each strip about 8 in. apart up three sides and across the top. Before I had it painted the vines were half way up on it.
NOW for the rest of my plans. I have always had a weakness for water, and a pool and rock garden had haunted me from the beginning, but I had held them in reserve. Now success had made me bold.. Besides, it was all so intensely interesting. I ventured a question to my husband. As to size and position of the pool, but with stilted graciousness he suggested that I go on in my own way. In my youngster days we loved to picnic near a spring in the mountains. The spring was overhung with rocks, making a cave effect. That picture stayed with me, and I determined to reproduce it. My gardener suggested a place where I could get my rocks, so with his wife to direct me and a neighbor to help choose them we set out. We were near the mountains east of our home when Mrs. Gardener exclaimed, "Here, Mrs., this is just what you want." There lay an iron arch. Goodness knows how it got there or for what it had been used. I remembered her husband's cautioning me against one and that the top was already on the pergola. But her enthusiasm and my love for arches got the better of me, so we set about to figure out possibilities of getting it home. Believe it or not, that thing fit securely on the back bumper of my car. Without a nail, rope or wire, it rode all the way down that rocky road to the highway and on to home. Could any gardener discourage its use after such luck? He could not. I planted it in with the two front posts of the pergola and rounded the roof lattice in line with it. No architect could be more proud of a cathedral than I was of that pergola.
I NEEDED more rocks. Besides I had found none large enough to make the "cave" part. My neighbor and I went alone this time. On our way we spied the remains of a concrete cistern or culvert. There was an arched block about 3 ft x 4 ft. Just the thing! So we jumped out and attempted to roll it towards the car. How could anything of that size be so heavy? It was off the road about 30 ft. We finally got it alongside of the car, but try as we might, we could not lift it in. We thought of dragging it but I had neither rope nor wire. Suddenly I thought of the skid chains. Out they came and only as two women could do such a job, we hitched it to the car and proceeded to drag it home. But sadness befell us, for about two blocks above home we went over some car tracks and our block parted asunder. But both pieces held in the chains, so rather crestfallen we went on.
I DID ask a neighbor boy to help me dig the pond and place the rocks. To our relief we found the largest piece big enough for the cave roof. There were some wires sticking out of the front end. We bent these up and filled them with dry sod and dirt which covered up all signs of the cement. That end is now one mass of green rock cress. The rest was easy. We plastered the pool by hand. (It was so small, about 5 ft. by 4 ft., oval.) This made it possible for the grass to grow close up to and hang over into the water. I set out my rock plants and again a feeling of vast satisfaction surged through me. It was rather picturesque, if a bit crude. In fact, I caught my husband giving it special attention when he watered. And once he ventured forth with, "Why don't you put some of these petunias down in the rock garden?"
I have replaced some of the plants, (I suppose I shall keep on replacing) and planted some mountain moss around the edge of the pool. The vines completely cover the pergola—defects and all—and our back yard is again quite private.
WE spend our dinner hour there every evening in summer. It is the one cool place of retreat. People exclaim over its coolness. I look shyly towards my husband and say, "It must be the water that makes it so cool." But never would he commit himself. Oh, how I tried to draw out his opinion of that corner. Always the subject was changed. One evening I was telling a dinner guest something of my experiences. I said, "It is called —'s folly. Hubby, to this day, will not put his O. K. on it." "Well," she said, "he must think it is all right for he brought me here before you came out." My heart soared. He had sanctioned it, though not to me. Dare I approach it again? I would await my chance and try once more. It came early one morning as we were looking out after a night of refreshing rain. "Isn't that a glorious tree," I asked, pointing to the arbor vitae. "It surely is," he said. "And isn't that whole corner pretty now?' My heart nearly stopped beating but I looked straight up at him. "Ah—yes," he said, as he bent over me. He said it. At last he said "yes." What does it matter that the apple tree could have been sprayed? What does it matter that a landscape gardener might smile indulgently at my work? What does anything matter? He has said "yes."
Appreciation By Sadie Willes Adamson
WHO has not known the influence of a good story or poem and been bettered by its reading? Sometimes that influence has been the key note of success. A higher level has been reached. A better life has been lived. Many have found God. Sometimes the simplest story brings out the greatest lesson. The grasping plastic mind reaches out and by the easiest method tiny seeds are planted within the human mind that live, sprout, and grow; enriching the heart and soul. Reread the "Song of the Lark," by Arvilla Bennett Ashby, in the Relief Society Magazine, June, 1934, also "Old Hands," by Estelle Webb Thomas, in the March, 1934 issue. Try to visualize their deep meaning. After reading the poem, I felt it could indeed have been meant for my departed mother. It recalled her gentle ministrations and the beauty of her soul. She didn't care a lot for a career but she was very much interested in progress. I don't think I have ever met a woman who had a more cheerful outlook on life nor one who had so thoroughly the "Gift of Appreciation" as did she. She was educated, cultured and refined. I realize she has, left me a wonderful heritage and I only hope that I may live that my own life may be approved. May I climb the ladder of life gripping firm with "worn hands." What matters if I appreciate the meaning back of their appearance?
IN A GARDEN AT NIGHT By Florence Bedell
Last night I sat within a garden place And dreamed awhile where peaceful shadows lay; I thought of Him who came one night, Within Gethsemane to pray. And here I saw the slender lilies shine, Bejeweled with dewdrops silver white,— Then dreamed I of His tears that fell, Like pearls on lilies, that dark night. Close by my side a yearning crimson rose, Like blood against a moonbeam set, Whispered to me, the deathless love Of Him whose blood drops fell as sweat, Upon the hushed brow of Olivet.
The Building That Endures By Jennie Barlow Duffin
NEARLY all living creatures are builders. Beavers make dams; birds build nests; children fashion mimic fortresses; and men erect towers to last forever. But time destroys them all. Yet life goes on expressing itself in new and better forms: the palace rises where the cottage falls; and man, the master builder, heedless of the scythe of time, continues ceaselessly to build, and shall continue. Yet of all his mighty structures only one thing will endure, and that is Character. In the effort to build manhood and womanhood, there are many disappointments, many ruins. Everyone can look back upon noble resolutions which have tottered and fallen to the ground. But he that rises undaunted every time he falls, rises wiser, and is therefore building character.
LET us briefly consider what character stands for in human evolution. If we had before us a perfect man, in what varying aspects might we study his personality? There would first of all be the physical aspect. For were we to look upon human beings only as animals, and classify them in the order of physical perfection from the hunchback to the Apollo, could we doubt for a moment that character building begins on the purely physical plane? He who discovers the laws of nature and weaves them into hygienic habits of life, is building physical character; and to have physical character is to have health, vigor, beauty, power—all the physical qualities which are fundamental to perfect manhood and womanhood. We may next look at the intellectual aspect. Here human beings range also from the defective and feeble-minded up to such giants of intellect as Newton and Thomas Edison. What is it that distinguishes men on the mental plane? Is it not the power to think clearly and by thinking to conquer the forces of nature? Training and subduing them to the uses of man as we did the horse and the ox? What indeed, is the sum total of our material civilization, but the triumphs of the intellectual character? "It is good," says Shakespeare, "to have a giant's strength but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant." What attribute of mind and soul shall prevent us from using our strength as does the giant? This thought helps us to value the moral aspect of character, the power which makes for righteousness. Our universe—the world in which we live and move and have our beings—is instinct with moral law, just as it is with physical and intellectual law. Whoever discovers any principle the living of which would elevate the race—whoever seeks the good, the beautiful, and the true—and makes it a part of his daily life, is building moral character. It is on this plane that civilization is gradually moving upward. Physical character may furnish forth a valiant army; whether for war or for industry; intellectual character may discipline and direct that army to the marvelous material achievements of the present age; but moral character alone, the incarnation of justice, can insure the onward and upward movement of civilization. But there is yet a higher aspect of human development than that of justice; it is the law of love. Picture the Man of Sorrow, hanging on the Cross, suffering as it is not given mortals to suffer; jeered at and spit upon by Pharisee and hypocrite; and yet such was his love, even for his enemies, that he could pray, "Father, forgive them, they know not what they do." Such is the social aspect of character—mercy, sympathy, self-sacrifice, love; and all the world is a training school for it, if man could but forget selfishness and self. Lastly there is the spiritual aspect, the power by which we commune with the Infinite. Whoever attains even to the beginning of this power, enters heaven here on earth; whoever grows strong in it, becomes prophet and seer, learns to commune with God and angels, even while his feet still touch the earth. The perfect man would thus have a fine, powerful physique; a keenly trained intellect; a moral power capable of guiding his life into paths of justice; a power of sympathy and love extending even to his enemies; and lastly, a spiritual insight which should enable him to commune with the Source of all life and light.
CONTRAST now with this fivefold aspect of character-building, the pitiful ambitions which dominate mankind today. To be a millionaire satisfied the builders of a generation ago; now it is to be a multi-millionaire; and to what end? Merely to gratify the same passion for display, which led to the gorgeous court of Solomon. And yet looked at from heaven's point of view, how cheap such glories are! How fast they fade and wither! "Consider the lilies of the field," said our Savior, "they toil not, neither do they spin; yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these." Thanks to the clarifying vision of our age, more and more do men and women take the lily, rather than the golden throne, for the model of their lives; building character rather than heaping unto themselves riches.
IN four lines of Gray's immortal poem the foremost ambitions of mankind are pointed out as leading only to the grave. The "boast of heraldry" stands for antiquity of family, for blue blood, a form of glory, which attracts the American heiress, just as the empty title is attracted by her millions. Is it a noble ambition to strive for? The second ambition is the "pomp of Power"—an ambition as fierce among lesser mortals today, as it was with Napoleon, Caesar, or Alexander of old. But few ever attain it; fewer still make the world better for having attained it. To be in the public eye for a brief period may be a dazzling sensation; but is it a worthy or enduring ambition? Ask the meteor that blazes for three seconds across the sky, then sinks into the earth forever! "Beauty" is mentioned as the third glory for which mortals strive; but alas! It is not beauty of character, merely beauty of face and dress, of show and fashionable display. "Look on beauty," says Shakespeare "and you shall see 'tis purchased by weight, making them lightest that wear most of it." Then he mentions "the crispy, snaky, golden locks," often worn to dazzle and ensnare men's hearts, as being "the dowry of a second head, the skull that bred them in the sepulcher." Is it not a biting characterization of mere surface attractiveness? Gray puts "wealth" as the last and greatest of human ambitions. But even wealth fails to glorify man or woman, after the breath shall leave their bodies. In the language of the poet:
"The paths of glory lead but to the grave." "The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power, And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave Await alike the inevitable hour: The paths of glory lead but to the grave."
But character—character leaps beyond the grave, it grows brighter as all human things fade. The earth and all its glories may pass away. But character still remains; for it is builded within the human soul.
THE BLUEBIRD'S RETURN By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign