May thy highest notes and thy holiest By the crystal sea, become Divine, Ui = DoramsrlerWiihams — "yea Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? PRAYER Take Time For Spiritual Blessings By Lella Marler Hoggan "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, unuttered or expressed." —Montgomery. AEN fragrant odors from the \ \ first spring blossoms come drifting in through the open windows, and curtains are lightly stirred by soft breezes, the heart is filled with grateful joy. New life bursting forth from what was but yesterday a gray, cold world, is symbolic of life everlasting which has come forth from the silent tomb of the past. We think of the shepherds in the quiet fields of Bethlehem as they listened in awed wonder to the glad song of the ages. We remember how the Master walked and talked with men, and how they followed him through the streets and down to the sea, listening to his every word, his message of peace and of love and of hope eternal., We, too, stand in awed wonder when we think of how his joyous message was rejected and how he was crucified by the very world that he had come to save. And then, how the miracle of prophetic promise was wrought. Never were hearts lifted up in greater gladness than were the sorrowing ij hearts of His beloved disciples, when He walked forth from the dark tomb in triumphant glory. They, too, would live again. They, too, would go on eternally—they and their LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY children after them, and all mankind, down through the countless ages. 'THAT heritage of eternal truth, of life everlasting, has come down to you and to me. In the long years of its coming it has not lost any of its beauty or its glory. Do we accept it in its fullness? Are we ready to follow in the path of light that it spreads from our hearts to the harbor of our dreams? The magic key that will open the door to all of its blessings is in our keeping. It is an ancient key, the same one that has been used through the centuries; the first and the most important of all of the keys of the Kingdom of Life. It is the Key of Prayer. Through its use we may enter into communion with the Most High, and receive help and comfort and strength according to our needs. COMMUNION with the Divine is a high privilege. It implies understanding and cooperation. It is more than a mere request to have our needs supplied, have special favors granted. Is it not possible for us to establish a high fellowship, a divine friendship with our Maker, that we may share with Him our joys and our triumphs as well as our sorrows and our misfortunes? Have we not risen some mornings toa world so running over with gladness that we wanted to pour out our souls in gratitude to the kind Providence that had showered us with such a fullness of happiness? Some blessings are so perfect and so beautiful that they become a ceremonial of joy, a glad rapture, for which we are unable to express our appreciation except in prayer. Sometimes a sorrow comes to us so devastating that it seems to strip life of all its beauty and loveliness. 211 We feel that the very foundation of our existence is crumbling under our feet. Such sorrow finds only one source of comfort. Only the Master knows how to heal a broken heart. He can lift us out of the thick, black night of sorrow or sin or humiliation. He can put our feet back on the path of life and give us courage to go forward and meet any emergency that awaits us. UT we must do our part. If we wait until our need is upon us, and then come running in haste for the blessings we desire, we are sometimes unprepared to receive it. Where a person plans and studies and struggles over a long period of time to accomplish some worthy desire, his very effort is a perpetual prayer. He is ready for the blessing, and what has been going on through the years stands as a silent testimony of his worthiness. He has already opened up the way for the fulfillment of his dream. There are times when frequent prayer is not only a comfort but a necessity to some persons. WHEN my children were little," confided a gentle old lady, "I felt the need of guidance at every turn. It was then that I formed the habit of offering little silent prayers as I went about my work. I think most mothers form such a habit. It seems like we need wisdom and patience and courage every hour of the day. I know exactly what the Master meant when he said we should 'pray always.' I used to feel that a guiding influence was right at my side, companion like, lending a helping hand in all of the numberless joys and trials of the day." She was silent for awhile and then she continued, reminiscently, "There was a quiet sheitered nook just off 212 the path, down near the spring, where I used to go to pray every morning in the summer. To me it was as hallowed as a sacred prayer room. When I entered into the silence and the beauty of that little place, my cares and worries all slipped from my shoulders like an old cloak. I felt that I was in the very presence of the Divine. That quiet little moment of prayer in the morning seemed to fortify me against every emergency. I knew that a kind watch care would be over me all through the day. Yes, the comforting influence of an unseen presence has carried me over the river of pain and sorrow many times." She smiled sweetly. She had found the "peace that passeth understanding." O we deliberately plan for moments of devotion? Do we find holds? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE time for spiritual blessings, for the fulfillment of our high hopes? N° lovely thing in life comes cheap. We have to pay for heaven as we go. We can't suppress the spiritual influences through the years and then expect the portals to swing wide at our approach. Why not open our eyes to a little of each day's effulgence? Not walk right through the eternal glories blindfolded. Have we learned to listen to the singing melodies of life? To glimpse the radiant gladness that each day The choicest blessings that any heart can harbor are in the offing. Are we going to find time for them? Stripped of the sheen of ideality, the glory of divinity, what is life? Truly, "white hyacinths for the soul" are as essential as daily food and shelter. Aero — THE GATHERING By Theodore E. Curtis Lift up thy gates, O Zion! From afar Thy children come rejoicing as of old. Thy light rekindles, like a guiding star, To light them from the darkness to the fold. In thee all racial prejudice shall cease; In thee the hearts of many nations blend; Thine is the fountain of eternal peace Where Israel's troubled pilgrimage shall end. Thy light is like a flaming diadem, And many lands have turned their hearts to thee. To Zion, and to old Jerusalem, They come like rivers rolling to the sea. From every quarter of the spacious earth, From every land beneath the starry dome, From out the ancient darkness and the dearth The children of the promise gather home. On the Trails of the Old Kaibab By Elsie C. Carroll CHAPTER XI TEVE was pacing the floor of the lobby when Helen reached the Lodge. His surprise at seeing her was reassuring, for she wondered if he could have recognized her when he rushed past. "Steve," she said, trying to keep her excitement under control, "I have something very important to talk over with you. Are you well enough to ride? I have Maje and perhaps we can get another horse here." He was eager to get away. "I don't know what the doctor would say, but I feel all right." He called a bell-boy and arranged for a horse; in a few moments they were riding away. For a little time Helen hesitated about telling him what she had come to disclose. He looked so ill and wretched that she wondered if Dr. Grosbeck would have let him come. It seemed to her, however, that the physical danger of this ride could not be as harmful as the mental torture Tess Morley had put him through. "Well, what did you want to tell me? That you think ''m a bum trainer to get smashed up like I did the other day?", "Oh, Steve, that was dreadful. I'm glad I wasn't there to see it." He looked at her in surprise, but she went on. "Steve, I believe I know where your lost cattle are. That's what I came to tell you."; Quietly she laid her theory before him. As he listened his eyes filled with amazement, but they still held their old cynicism. He'd had theories himself that seemed as logical as hers. "Haven't you ever suspected Hawley?" "Gracious, no! Why should I suspect him? He's a deputy-sheriff and has been helping me all these years." Carefully she told of all her observations which had led to her suspicions. She recalled the day they met Hawley after they'd seen Lon with the questionable-looking stranger. She told of the meeting of Hawley and this same man shortly after Lon had come back wounded. She mentioned, too, that she was quite sure Hawley had ridden from the rodeo with the same man just before Steve went into the corral for his riding exhibition. She told what she had seen as she had flown over the mountain with Pete Rockwood, and the aviator's comments about the evident preparations for branding. "Can't you see, Steve, how easy it would be for him to change your double H to his crossed four bars?" He looked at her seriously. "You're right! And my ear-mark could be easily cut to his, too. But why would he be doing a thing like that to me?" "The question we're concerned with first, is to prove that he is doing it. Did you ever examine any of the brands on his old cattle—the ones he claims to have brought here when he bought the ranch?" | "T don't know. Why?" "T was just thinking—," but she checked herself. She wouldn't push her beliefs about Hawley's original herd just now. ''There are ways of 214 telling if new brands have been put over old ones, aren't there? I heard some men talking about it one day at the hotel." "Yes, that isn't difficult." She wasn't sure that Steve was fully convinced by her theory. His face was troubled and drawn. "Let's get to House Rock as soon as we can," he said. "Hawley should still be there." When they came to the top of the ridge overlooking the ranch buildings Helen stopped. "Steve, before we go on, I must tell you something else." She hesitated, wondering how he would take her revelation. "T want to tell you who I am and why I am doubly interested in getting to the bottom of this mystery." He regarded her wonderingly, but he had experienced too many surprises and shocks of late for anything to startle him. "Steve, my father helped your father build those houses and corrals. Together they created and built up the Double H Cattle Company. That herd which disappeared so mysteriously after Sam Huntsman's death—should be my cattle." He gasped. "You mean—I—I don't get it. Did Sam Huntsman leave a daughter in Chicago? Are you—? "Sammy Huntsman, junior — Helen, to please my aunt." "Then you're not mar—You're not Mrs. Latimer?" She hesitated for an instant. "Yes," she said slowly, "I'm also Mrs. George Latimer." She started Maje on down the trail. Steve's face was still blank' with amazement as he followed her. GROUP of men on horses were near the central cabin. Uncle Billy was the first to recognize Steve RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and Helen. He rode toward them. "Steve what are you doing here? What's Doc Grosbeck thinking of to let you come? You're like a ghost." "I'm all right, old scout. What's the news? Have you found Lon?" The old man shook his head mournfully. Weariness and discouragement were in his eyes. "Hawley thinks we'd as well give it up again." "With Lon missing?" "He says there don't seem to be nothing else to do. He thinks maybe Lon'li turn up agin like he did before, unless maybe they killed him this time. Anyway, he says, Lon's only an Injun." Steve's eyes flashed an anger to match that of the old man's. "Did he say that?' His face was grim as he rode to the group by the door. Helen feared for what he might do. But his voice was quiet as he greeted the men, though she could see his knuckles standing out white as his hands gripped the pommel of his saddle. "Uncle Billy tells me it's the same old story. So we may as well call it off. If you fellows who came out to help Mr. Hawley will leave your bills with him I'll settle later. Thanks Hawley, for coming out again." "I'm sorry, Steve,' Hawley said as he prepared to go. "It's a beastly shame this keeps happening to you. Wish I knew how to get to the bottom of it. But, as usual, there's nothing to get hold of." As soon as Hawley and his men were out of sight, Steve turned to Uncle Billy. "Did you know that Helen is Sam Huntsman's girl?" "Yes. I've knowed it quite a while. I didn't tell you, because I knew you'd worry more than ever over how things has gone, and I thought you had enough jist now."