She attended her first Suffrage meeting almost by accident. She was sauntering about in "Horticultural Hall in a rainy-day-suit'"" when she received an urgent invitation to join the workers on the platform, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE William Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, James Freeman Clarke. She knew them, "they were her husband's old companions-in-arms." She felt she belonged with them. The New England Woman Suffrage Association was organized, and she became its first president. This office she held with some few interruptions through life. She often said she was glad she joined the suffrage movement because it brought her into such high company. ER last service to the cause of woman suffrage was to send a circular letter to all the editors and to all the ministers of four leading denominations in the four oldest suffrage States, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, and Idaho, asking whether equal suffrage worked well or ill. She received 624 answers, 62 not favorable, 46 in doubt, and 516 in favor. A letter from her to the London Times, stating these results, appeared on the same day that the news of her death was cabled to Europe. A noble mother of a noble family her children joined and supported her in her active life. "Each child had its special room," say her daughters, in their mother's life, "though no door was locked to any." In all things pertaining to philosophy, Julia was her special intimate; for help and sympathy in suffrage and club doings, she turned naturally to Florence, an ardent worker in these fields; with Harry she would especially enjoy music; with Laura she would talk of books; while Maud was the 'Prime Minister' in social and household matters. There was another whose companionship she prized greatly, who was part of her household at one time. LESSON DEPARTMENT This was her nephew, Francis Marion Crawford, the American novelist. She first met him in Rome at the age of twenty-three when she says he was "extremely handsome." Also she says, "he was the most genial and companionable of men. To this, may I add, agreeing entirely with Mrs. Howe, the best conversationalist I have ever met. 'In 1882 Crawford lived with his aunt at 241 Beacon Street, Boston. They were most companionable and happy together.'"' He sang and his aunt accompanied him. But he did more than sing, for while a member of the Howe household he wrote his first three novels, Mr. Isaacs, Dr. Claudius, and A Roman Singer. Much of Mrs. Howe's time was consumed meeting distinguished people from any part of the world. If we had them all in line, the people who came to breakfast or invited her to breakfast, the people with whom she lunched, met at dinners, receptions, it would make a pageant of no mean length. Once a Persian Prince appeared saying he had come to the United States chiefly to see the President and Mrs. Howe. After making record in her journal of a luncheon with Mrs. Humphry Ward. She says: "A delightful call from Mrs. Humphrey Ward. We had much talk of persons admired in England and America." On another occasion we read: "Mrs. Abel Lefranc, the French lecturer of the year at Harvard, came to lunch with her. He apologized for only being able to stay for the luncheon hour,' because of pressing business. 'He stayed for two hours and a half after luncheon was over. She was entirely at home in French, and the Frenchman talked over the problems of his country as if to a compatriot." She had, too, her ministerial 257 association, an organization of women ordained to the ministry. Julia Ward Howe often filled a pulpit. Also her Boston Authors' Club. One after another these friends of hers went before her into the new life. She wrote for and spoke at their memorial services.