ON THE TRAILS OF THE OLD KAIBAB "We've got to find out if Hawley's at the bottom of this business." "Hawley?" Uncle Billy's eyes fairly popped from their sockets. "He's yeller, of course, sayin' what he did about Lon, but surely—" "Let's go in and fix something to eat while Helen tells you what she's been telling me. Then we must get into action." They made Steve lie down on a bunk in one end of the room. Uncle Billy stirred up the fire and Helen put things about the room in order as she repeated her suppositions. "By my soul, I believe you're right. And to think we've lived here with the skunk all these years and didn't guess. But how's he been doin' it? That's the part we still got to find out." Steve lay watching Helen. His eyes were dark pools of melancholy. She seemed to feel his gaze and turned to look at him. "How do you like your shack?" he asked., She guessed what he was thinking and crossed to the bunk. "Don't be foolish, Steve. It isn't my shack." "Don't you think you should send for your husband to come and help straighten out this mess?" Uncle Billy brought food to Steve. "Yourn and mine is on the table," he told Helen. T that instant there was a noise outside, and the next moment Lon Dean burst into the room. They all gathered around him. "I see 'em go. Now I can come out and eat. Give me coffee. Give me bread." They could see that he was famished and they let him eat for a few moments before trying to get from him the things they wanted so much to know. It took some time for Lon to make 215 his story comprehensible. Not until he finally led them to Jim's Cave and revealed one of the strangest inventions ever devised could they be sure they were listening to facts. Lon explained how he had left the calves on that day before his first disappearance and had gone into the cabin to prepare his dinner. When he came out, the calves were gone. As on previous occasions, he tracked them to Jim's Cave, where the trail, of course, ended against the solid rock of the cavern. But as he came out of the cave and stood wondering what to do next, he suddenly was aware of a horseman beside him. He didn't know where the man had come from and was frightened by his sudden appearance. The stranger told him he had come to help find the cattle thieves and asked Lon to go with him. Lon got his horse and the two had ridden to the other side of the mountain, past Hawley's ranch to a trail under the rim of the canyon where Steve's calves were being driven to Hawley's range. He didn't know how the calves had got onto the trail, but he saw immediately that the secret trail led by way of the cutback in the canyon to the ridge joining Steve's range. He began asking the red-bearded Stranger questions, but he was suddenly knocked in the head, and fell from his horse. When he regained consciousness it was dark and he was alone. His hands were tied; his head was throbbing. After awhile he succeeded in loosening his hands, and bound his bleeding head with a handkerchief. He crawled back over the trail in | the darkness. At dawn he came upon his horse which apparently had escaped from his assailant. He reached a ridge on the mountain that was familiar, but his head hurt so 216 he scarcely knew what he was doing. When he came to a trail leading to Tess Morley's place, he gave the horse the reins and the next thing he could remember was awakening one day in a bed at the Lodge with Steve and Dr. Grosbeck standing over him, asking him questions about which he knew nothing. He couldn't recall anything. His memory came back, he explained, the day of the rodeo, when again he was watching the cattle—this time the young steers. The other boys had gone to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the rodeo for a few hours, so again he was alone. When he saw that the steers were gone, he followed as before down to jim's Cave where the tracks disappeared. It was at this point, however, that his memory of that other occasion flashed back to him. He felt that the stranger must have come from the cave. He went inside and to his surprise the dead tree at the back of the cave was moving. (To be Continued) SPRING By Beatrice E. Linford Dear God, each year you make the world More beautiful! This year you fair outdid yourself It's wonderful! Its splendor, and its freshness fairly Dazzle me, Such beauty it has never been My joy to see! Such sweet celestial songs and sunshine, Joyful spring! Such radiance has loosed my cold, Frozen heartstrings! My soul is all atremble, God, You are so near, I feel your presence, all life's meaning Seems so clear! EASTER By Elsie E. Barrett Easter voices the cry—'There is no death," Busy Nature proclaims it in rhythmic breath And marvelous displays In renewal of life after winter's lament, Bringing summer more charm for the season thus spent In preparation days. Every flower and tree in the valley's broad sweep Softly whispers with smiles "All will waken who sleep."