4 Vivian Redd McConkie By Luella W. Cannon HAD you journeyed across the plains as a Mormon pioneer, having experienced the trials and hardships of such a trip, would you not have -welcomed upon your arrival in Salt Lake Valley, the opportunity of being settled once more? We are familiar with the fact that no sooner did many of these families begin to feel settled, than new calls came to them to do other pioneering. I have in mind a family which accepted a call to the southern part of Utah Valley. Later they pressed on into Iron County. In 1879 when Pres. Brigham Young issued a call to a group of saints to settle in San Juan County, these same people were included in that call. This was a more severe test of their faith than any which had previously confronted them. It called for great courage and real power of endurance, for an extremely difficult task lay before them. With implicit faith in the inspiration of their prophet and leader, they set out on their undertaking.: The party was made up of one hundred and fifty people, with one hundred wagons. The journey was begun in Oct., 1879, and completed in April, 1880—of six months duration. In order to reach the San Juan country in the extreme southeastern corner of Utah, they were compelled to cross the Colorado River, a very difficult and hazardous undertaking. With almost perpendicular cliffs and ledges banking the stream, a way had to be discovered to conquer this barrier. As this band of people halted, puzzling as to how this giant task might be accomplished, a mountain sheep was noticed, making its way down a ledge. This proved to be the key to the situation. The trail of the sheep became the path of the people. It led them to the hole in the rock, through which they were able to reach the riverside. Of course a means had to be devised by which the wagons and equipment might be brought down, too. A plan was hit upon by which the wagons were taken apart and the parts were lowered over the precipices by means of ropes. What time and patience all of this must have taken, before they could continue on! Even after this they faced the danger of crossing the Colorado. We marvel at their determination and perseverance! On and on they moved, through the great natural bridge section. They camped on the stretches of flat rock, so common to this type of country. Drinking water was obtained from pools left by the rain. Although winter time, the weather was not cold. Of course, had they chosen 202 summer for such a trip, the heat could not have been endured. In the spring of 1880 these people settled at Bluff, about which a whole story might be told. It is situated on the banks of the San Juan River, in a unique and fascinating setting. As the name implies, it really is in the bluffs, which are highly colored in tones ranging from yellow to red, The climate is semi-tropical, the soil fertile. This place soon became a flourishing town, which I was told, is farther from a railroad than any other town in the United States. Today it appears almost as a ghost of some prosperous day. Although nearly deserted, because of river floods, an observer is impressed by the substantial and beautiful homes built by those people. AMONG these settlers in Bluff was the Redd family, which has stood out prominently in the development of San Juan. J. M. Redd was among these, and this brings me to the introduction of the subject of this article. J. M. Redd, known for his fearlessness and for his knowledge of that great country, has guided many people on trips to the Natural Bridges. In his late teens he was the life of the pioneer party. Unmarried as he made this first trip to Bluff, he returned to Iron County, where he married Lucinda Pace and with her, again made his way to Bluff. VIVIAN REDD McCONKIE, one of the latest additions to the Relief Society General Board, is the daughter of Mr. And Mrs. J. M. Redd. As a daughter of these brave, courageous pioneers, she is a worthy representative. I feel confident that even as her people unhesitatingly met their call in one of the greatest pioneer ventures on record RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE so she would meet such a call were it necessary today. She was born in Bluff, Oct. 13, 1889, the third child in a family of nine. Her parents were real home makers, intelligent, generous, and industrious. The impelling force in the lives of these people was the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The importance of education was not lost sight of. Vivian went to school in Bluff until she had finished the seventh grade. Many miles away, in Bear Lake, Idaho, her schooling continued. Her higher education was had at the University of Utah and at the Agricultural College at Logan. While attending the University of Utah she became captain of the first girl's basketball team of the university. The most important event in connection with her Agricultural College experiences was the meeting of Oscar W. McConkie, whom she later married, and who is now Judge McConkie. ETWEEN her college days and her marriage she taught school for two years in Monticello, her family having gone there to live. In 1913 she and Oscar McConkie were married in the Salt Lake Temple. Three years were spent at Ann Arbor, Michigan, where Brother McConkie attended law school. For one year she studied speech at the University of Michigan. Returning to Utah they lived for ten years in Monticello where Brother McConkie practiced law. In 1926 they took up their residence in Salt Lake City, having been members of the Twentieth Ward ever since. "THROUGHOUT her life Vivian has been a devoted church worker. In San Juan she served as Relief Society counselor in the ward four years; as stake secretary to her mother who was Stake President of Relief VIVIAN REDD McCONKIE Society, and ten years as first counselor to the Stake President of the Mutual Improvement Association, as well as divers other positions of trust and responsibility. Since coming to Salt Lake City, she served for three years as president of the Twentieth Ward Mutual, and almost eight years as Relief Society president. Undoubtedly her latest call to service has come because of her fine understanding of and her accomplishments in Relief Society undertakings. She truly has been "the servant of all." She is a woman of action, rather than of words. She is dependable. There is no place for laziness or triviality in her life.. She does find time however for worth-while activities outside the routine of home and church. In connection with Relief Society activities, she is a regular attendant at the L. D. S. Gym and has become an efficient swimmer. Possessing a calmness of nature, she seems to do things with very little effort. Accepting life and all it offers as a privilege, she meets even the hardest tasks cheerfully. Her time and talents are given so unselfishly. She is a worthy daughter of worthy parents. With a noble husband and six lovely children she enjoys the blessings of a happy home. These children are following in the footsteps of their parents. A GREATER insight and under- 6 standing of this family came to me as a result of a visit with them several years ago, when they were spending the summer in Monticello. Had but one member of my family been invited to spend two weeks in Monticello, I should have considered the invitation most generous, but when five of us were invited I was perfectly overwhelmed. By telling something of the experiences we enjoyed on this trip, it may give you a 203 greater insight into the nature of Vivian McConkie and her people. Near the Blue Mountains—Monticello is considerably higher than the great stretches of sparsely populated country round about. Even in the midst of summer, the nights are very cool and the days pleasant. Flowers grow beautifully there, and when I think of Monticello I think of flowers. Sweet peas are especially beautiful in that climate, so large and very fragrant. Fresh sweet peas we enjoyed in our room during our entire stay. With over a dozen people to plan meals for each day, I discovered what an excellent manager our hostess was, also what a good cook. Things were done quietly with no friction. It all seemed so easy, although I realized that a great responsibility was being shouldered.. Our vacation included a camping trip for several days in the Blue Mountains, with the McConkies and some of their friends. A trip to the great Natural Bridges followed,—a never-to-be-forgotten experience, — the memory of which I shall always treasure. We were invited into the homes of relatives and friends of these people. Their sincerity and genuine hospitality touched my heart. When the time came to say goodbye we felt as though we were tearing away from those we had known always. For miles as we drove along the highway, homeward bound, the silence was not broken. Our hearts were too full to give utterance. The trip had definitely done something to me. I am better for having had it. With gratitude in my being I shall always feel indebted to these people. Through this article, I trust that readers may gain some insight into the life and character of Vivian McConkie. May our Heavenly Father richly bless her in her new venture.