Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon PRIL with smiles and tears Bespeaks the promise of the years For Eternity's wide garden. AMELIA EARHART'S latest venture to circle the world over the equator, carrying a laboratory equipment for scientific experiment is the thrill of the year in women's activities. MRS. MYRON C. TAYLOR, wife of the chairman of the United States Steel Corporation is credited with having opened the way for negotiations between the Steel Company and labor organizations. Would that woman's influence might always be as wisely used. KATIE BENNETT of Colorado, rural mail carrier for 31 years has retired at the age of 65. "The mail must go through" was her slogan and through sunshine or storm she went her way over rough unsurfaced roads. MRS. ELIZABETH WHITAKER, an honored pioneer mother of Utah, celebrated her 98th birthday last month. She led through the years a life of useful activity. MRS. ANGELINE CARTER died at 103 years of age, never having consulted a doctor until two days before her death. GRACE COOLIDGE'S husband, the late Calvin Coolidge, in his autobiography pays her this tender compliment. For almost a quarter of century she has borne with my infirmities and I have rejoiced in her graces." MISS LILLIAN FISCHER, Hollywood fashion expert, advises women to "wear hats that suit the face and really help you, 'Give you a lift.' Better to wear a becoming hat several seasons than have a lot of poor ones." ELIZABETH BERGENER is in London, starring with her usual success, in the Biblical play 'The Boy David." Blbu SAYAO of Brazil made her debut with the Metropolitan this season. She has previously appeared in opera in Paris, Milan and Buenos Aires. LUIS RAINER received the 4 award of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for the best performance by an actress in 1936. Her role was Anna Held in "The Great Ziegfeld." ROSITA DIAZ, beautiful cinema star is reported to have been executed by the Nationalists in war torn Madrid. MALVINA HOFFMAN, sculptress, has published a book of her experiences and travels in many lands titled "Heads and Tales." It is one of the most popular of the new books and extremely fascinating. Margaret Irwin's "The Stranger Prince," choice of the English Book Society and Willa Cather's "Not Under Forty," chosen book of the month by the Ailantic Monthly are also considered among the best of the late books. Lotta Paul: Baxter By Thomas B. Child (Bishop of the 10th Ward) LOTTA PAUL BAXTER L stands out as a_ successful homemaker, a loving wife, mother and stepmother, a patient nurse, a progressive teacher, and a loyal friend. She is also a good conversationalist, a forceful, interesting speaker, and altogether a thorough Latter-day Saint. She has thrust in her sickle with her might, laying up a store in heaven where neither moth nor rust can corrupt, nor thieves break through and steal. It would be a mistaken view to infer that her keen interest in the vital issues before us as a church are on the wane but rather that her retirement will give opportunity to the coming generation to take hold of its heritage and make its contribution to the work with new blood, new ideas and increased vigor. In her release the General Board loses a valuable member. SISTER Baxter was born February 14, 1870, on Valentine's Day, and has lived on the same city lot all her life. Since her children have married and made homes for themselves, she makes her home with her sister, Maude Paul, who is appreciative of her companionship. VISIT to their home is most interesting. It was built by her parents in 1862, and has about it the feeling and look of respectful seclusion and contentment which we strive in vain to imitate in our rapidly building cities. One enjoys the old fashioned mantel piece and fireplace with its burning log. Her mother's portrait, a painting by Ramsey, still hangs on the wall. This cultured lady set the standard for her family. She was president of the Relief Society in the Tenth Ward for over 30 years. She lived to the ripe old age of 91. Sister Baxter is proud to tell you that they are happy to be in the old home where the spirit of father and mother seems to dwell, for together they made the adobes of which the home was built. "Here we were taught the Gospel, and father in addition stressed the subject of Democracy. He loved Burn's Poems, especially "Cotters Saturday Night" and "A Man's a Man for A' That", which were often read aloud to the family." It is the hope of Sister Baxter and Maude that the old home will be respected and preserved as long as possible. Like Ruskin said of stones, they can say of adobes. "When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be for the present delight nor for present use alone. Let it be such that our descendants will thank us for and let us think as we lay stone on stone that a time is to come when these stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them and that men will say as they look upon the labor and wrought substance of them, 'See! This Our Fathers did for us.' "' The writer cannot help but make the comparison between this home and our growing modern idea of preferring a hotel with no responsibility or an apartment house where it is easier to move than go through the inconvenience of house cleaning. In her home furniture, rugs, light fixtures, radios, refrigerators, etc., do LOTTA PAUL BAXTER not have to be exchanged every year or so for the latest model. WHEN we speak of the home we must include the garden, "Just an Old Fashioned Garden" as the song says. You can see the two sis- 219 ters, who are students of nature, working in the garden at all hours of the day. Every type of flower adapted to this climate is carefully studied and cultivated. I ventured once to ask "Which is your favorite flower?" She replied "Just flowers, even to the LOTTA PAUL BAXTER 220 commonest and there is not a wild flower that grows that I do not love." She loves the great out-of-doors and says, "I get more actual proof of the resurrection from the garden than from any other source. When I want to be pepped up I get the seed catalogue and plan for spring." This love of the soil and the garden is in a great measure responsible for the practical side of her nature. It gives such a real demonstration as to. Whether one is failing or hitting the mark. She is very fond of poetry, especially Shelly, Tennyson and Edgar A. Guest and from all of these she quotes freely. Feeling the lack of a spiritual touch in Edgar Guest's poem on the home, she added this: "You've got to pray to make it home, And everyone unite, In asking God to bless you there, And keep you in the right. Then as you journey on life's way Toward the Master's throne, You'll know that prayer has sanctified And made your house a home." Dickens is a favorite author because of the social reforms he advocated. However she says 'My chief interest now is in Current Events, and stories have failed to interest me in my later life." When her youngest baby was three years old she took a course in literature at the University under the late Professor Reynolds. Sister Baxter has always taken advantage of the opportunities that have come her way. She was born in the Church; baptized at the age of eight; secretary of the Primary at nine. In 1887 was chosen as secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the Tenth Ward, Salt Lake City, which position she held until April 12, 1892, when she was chosen second RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE counselor to the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. From July 6, 1887 to April 26, 1903 she acted as President of the Association, and later served as an aid on the old Salt Lake Stake Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. When the Salt Lake Stake was divided into four stakes in 1904, she was chosen Stake President of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of Liberty Stake which position she held until 1912. Then she acted for one year as a teacher in the Tenth Ward of the Y. L. M. I. A. In 1914 she was chosen as second counselor in the Liberty Stake Relief Society and in October 1915 was set apart as President of the Liberty Stake Relief Societies which position she held until chosen a member of the General Board in 1921. Fifty-five years of efficient service have been given to the church, the last 16 being devoted entirely to the Relief Society General Board work. During this time she has visited almost every stake in the Church including Mexico and Canada. She has many friends in all places and was always a welcome representative and received many requests to return the visit. She says, "This service has been of priceless value to me and has given me a background that I could have received in no other way." One of the most notable changes she observes at the conclusion of her long service is the changed attitude of the Priesthood toward the Relief Society work. In the beginning the idea of cooperating with the Relief Society was new to the bishops, making it hard to get their attendance at conventions but now they work harmoniously in a common cause. She is considered an inspirational speaker, her success being in her sincerity, directness, and sympathy for workers, their struggles and failures. LOTTA PAUL BAXTER She is encouraging, always telling people how well they are doing. The mother of four children, she reared also her husband's family of six and a grandson whose mother died at his birth. Home is where she is to all her husband's children. Samuel E. Baxter, her husband, was a faithful High Priest in the Tenth Ward, Superintendent of the Sunday School, and came up through the ranks of the Church as did his devoted wife. The last five years of his life he was confined to his bed with a severe illness and during this entire time she waited on him herself, never complaining, always cheerful and willing to lend a hand to others even when over-burdened. She was a skillful manager in her home and knew how to get along when she had little to do with. When conditions in the home were the most discouraging she tried doubly hard to be optimistic. It is said of her that on these occasions she brought out the best linen and silverware to make the best showing possible. One of her favorite sayings is, "Tf you can't have both, be rich in spiritual rather than in material things." Dante said of Aristotle, "He was the master of them that know." I say the same for Lotta Paul Baxter and feel that she ranks with those strong characters and mothers like Anne Hutchenson and Elizabeth Fry, who in spite of every obstacle raise a family, capably express themselves, and make their contribution to the welfare of mankind. Those seeking work and the hungry were never turned away from her door. There was always some wood to be sawed or some work to be done in the garden. She is a wonderfully practical woman 221 and eminently fitted to be a teacher of the Relief Society work. People with whom she talks recognize in her a kindred spirit and she is often consulted privately by many people about their problems. She realizes that many of the criticisms of our failure to live up to the teachings of Christ are justified. An examination of her life will reveal the fact that she is a real disciple of the Master and entitled through her sacrifice, preparation, and righteous living to deliver his message in our generation, The criticism of John Stewart Mill was that our lives were a compromise between the Christian Creed and the interests and suggestions of worldly life. True as steel herself, she hates hypocrisy and sham and the just criticisms of John Stewart Mill are the evils she is trying to correct. She believes that these evils can be corrected through legislation as well as religion. She stands decidedly and loyally on the side of the poor and downtrodden. She is of the salt of the earth and her salt has maintained its savor. To put the thought of Thos. A. Kempis in my own language, her eye of intention and desire toward God and her fellow man has always been pure and thus she has made her way confidently through the storm of life. Life is real and life is earnest to her. She hates curiosity and gossip and condemns all those, like the Jews of old, who came to Bethany to the home of Mary and Martha, not to see Jesus but to see Lazarus whom He raised from the dead. There are only two classes of people, says Pascal, who can be called reasonable. Those that serve God with all their heart because they know Him and those who seek Him with all their 222 heart because they do not know Him. Native goodness and faith seem to be grounded more firmly in such characters as Sister Baxter than in most of us. Napoleon, when writing from St. Helena about the subjects he would like his only son taught in school, made this observation: '"But after all what you say to him, or all that he learns, will be of little use to him if he has not in the depth of his heart, that sacred fire of love of good which alone can accomplish great things." The fearlessness of her ancestors has been perpetuated. When conversing with her she is very interesting and you always know your mind will be awakened. She is no "yes woman." Robert G. Ingersol, writing on individuality, once said that a man of humble circumstances was invited to dine with a gentleman. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The man was so overcome with the honor that to everything the gentleman said he replied "Yes". Tired at last of the monotony of acquiescence, the gentleman cried out, "My good man, say 'NO' just once so there will be two of us." She is a good listener also but in the end will not hesitate to express her opinion. She obtained her power by obedience to the laws of the Gospel.