LESSON DEPARTMENT Roughly speaking, we refer to the crowd as the casual gathering of people for any purpose whatsoever which brings individuals together. The mob is an excited crowd bent upon some definite object. Its purpose may be for good or evil, but it is transitory, and it lacks considered thought. It is a highly emotional gathering without intelligent direction. It may be extremely destructive and leave a permanent scar upon society as the result of its unpremeditated action. But even when its enthusiasm is dedicated to some high ideal it can create nothing of a constructive nature. Lasting good comes only through the channels of deliberate thought and wise control. But a group is a body of people that may be organized for some specific purpose which can be very useful in serving a high ideal. No normal individual can live without the association of his fellowmen. We are creatures of association, and we respond to the influences which surround us. Some types of group life bind people together into permanently desirable relationships, while others are temporary in their influence. Others produce undesirable reactions. To develop those forms of group life which promote socially desirable life and to shun that form which has a tendency to develop unsocial and even detrimental reactions to life situations is a problem which each individual is constantly facing. ROUP life is more than the sum total of the lives of the individuals who compose the group. The fact of association produces an influence which is quite distinct from that of the natures of those who form the group. - It gives rise to qualitative characteristics that are the outgrowth of the combined group 261 action and group spirit. The peculiar psychology which permeates the mob spirit leads to behavior which no individual in the group would dare to indulge by himself. Mob action is the result of group spirit that arises from some uncalculated impulse. Knowledge of the symptoms and probable course of mob action enables one to avoid being carried away by the lawless spirit. It is extremely important that one should understand how to curb the crowd spirit when its existence is manifested for an unwholesome reason. Knowledge of the everyday forms of association in which all people participate is also of great importance. Groups are held together by having common interests, aims, and accordant activities. The more bonds there are to unite people the more lasting the association is apt to be. But, if a single bond, such as the religious, is of enough importance it can unite people of widely divergent interest and contrasting stations in life. For instance, when a Latterday Saint of high standing in the Church or eminent position in life meets in a religious capacity with a man or woman whose worldly position is of the humblest order, there should be a deep feeling of common worship and understanding between them. But it is necessary that people should be conscious of the similarity of interests in their group life so that the mental phase of their association harmonizes with their outward acts. The more numerous and the more personal the bonds which bind people together the more lasting their association is apt to be. When people consciously and of their own volition develop a bond of common action and sympathy their association is likely to endure as long as the binding elements exist. 262 Perhaps the family illustrates the effect that united interests exert as cohesive influences better than any other single phase of group life. In its normal state the family has so many elements in common, that the unity of action within its bonds is very nearly complete. The individual members of the family are usually conscious of their common interests. However, as the thoughts and actions which the family have in common become fewer the members gradually drift into different channels, and the unity of the family is consequently weakened. But the common biological ancestry of the family is an exceedingly strong bond which generally holds the members together when consciousness of all other ties has gone. If social groups could develop as many ties of lasting significance, the unity of such groups would probably be as great as those of the family. Naturally, there should be some discrimination brought to bear upon the group in weighing the importance of striving for such ties. But where they are considered wholesome and worth the effort personal differences should give way to broader outlook, and cementing bonds should be encouraged. In some communities there is a strong group spirit of interest and loyalty. Common forces such as work, communication, cooperation in mutual enterprises, and welfare interests act to bind the group members together. On the other hand it is possible to find localities which seem to lack the spirit of unity and cohesion, and as a result no local sentiment seems to exist, and the community suffers from lack of enthusiasm and the benefit of combined action. IN cities where there are several wards of the L. D. S. Church, it is possible at times to observe one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ward with much unified and local spirit which is entirely lacking in a neighboring organization. A careful analysis of the situation will most likely reveal threads of life and common interests running through the organization which is imbued with group loyalty. The more numerous and enduring these threads become the more permanent will be the cooperative spirit. The results may be likened to an ordinary automobile tire. In its manufacture, upwards of thirty thousand individual cotton cords are brought together with a rubber coating. Any single cord or group of cords would be immediately destroyed by the strenuous work to which they are put, but when they are bound together in the rubber matrix so that all of the cords act as one they have greater durability on the road than a steel tire of equal weight. The cooperation of the individual strands produces a flexibility and a durability which is as nearly indestructible as the ingenuity of man can make. And thus can group action multiply the strength and power of individual effort. The intelligent participation in group life is a social goal worthy of cultivation. Those groups whose objectives and patterns of life lead to more wholesome living should be fostered. This is of particular significance in relation to the welfare of the Latter-day Saint Church. The loyalty, perseverance, and the unconquerable faith of the early Saints was due to the common goals and ideals of life which the Gospel engendered These qualities supported the pioneers in their long trek across the plains to their home in the mountains.