[Column 1]
			OPPORTUNITY.
	[Paper read at recent meeting of Utah Wom-
an’s Press Club by Mrs. Amanda M. Done.]
	I like the common symbol of the New
Year, the pure, fresh, joyous, hopeful babe,
with infinite possibilities, unbounded hopes,
and countless opportunities. It is a symbol
of the fact that with the New Year every
one is born again; the dead past is buried;
and the future with its endless vista of hope,
is once more opened to us. The babe is the
fitting emblem of the New Year and its
opportunities.
	It seems appropriate to make Opportunity
our watchword for the year just opening,
and for every future year. It is the birth of
opportunity that the New Year symbolizes.
it means the immortality of the soul. That
soul alone is dead that has no hope of a new
and potent opportunity. As the meaning of
the second death is a cessation of progress,
so the meaning of eternal life is endless op-
portunity to advance. The death we need to
fear is stagnation. The soul can never die
that seizes potent time, and makes present
opportunity the means of unending future
advancement.
	I know of no poem in the language more
hopeless, more resonant of buried possibil-
ities and departed hopes, than the oft quoted
one by J. J. Ingalls, entitled, “Opportunity.’’
For the sake of the demonstration of my
point, I will quote it:
Master of human destinies am I,
Fame, love and fortune on my footsteps wait.
Cities and fields I walk; I penetrate
Deserts and seas remote, and passing by
Hovel, and mart, and palace— soon or late
I knock unbidden once at every gate!
If sleeping, wake—if feasting, rise before
I turn away. It is the hour of fate,
And they who follow me reach every state
Mortals desire, and conquer every foe
Save death; but those who doubt or hesitate;
Condemned to failure, penury and woe,
Seek me in vain and uselessly implore—
I answer not, and I return no more.
	By way of contrast, and to give further
demonstration of the thought I wish to con-
vey, I will quote a poem written in answer
to the one-just given, by one of our western
writers, Walter Malone. Opportunity is
represented as saying,
They do me wrong who say I come no more
	When once I knock and fail to find you in;
For every day I stand outside your door,
	And bid you wake, and rise to fight and win.
Wait not for precious chances past away;
	Weep not for golden ages on the wane!
Each night I burn the records of the day;
	At sunrise every soul is born again.
Laugh like a boy at splendors that have sped,
	To vanished joys be blind and deaf and
		dumb;
My judgments seal the dead past with its dead,
	But never bind a moment yet to come.
Though deep in mire, wring not your hands
	and weep;
I lend my arm to all who say, “I can!”
No shamefaced outcast ever sank so deep
	But yet might rise and be again a man!
Dost thou behold thy lost youth all aghast?
	Dost reel from righteous retribution’s blow?
Then turn from blotted archives of the past
	And find the future’s pages white as snow.
Art thou a mourner? Rouse thee from thy
	spell;
Art thou a sinner? Sins may be forgiven;

