[Column 2]
Most of us have known her as a true and
noble woman long before we became asso-
ciate workers in the Temple. Some of us
remember her even as a girl, when she was
simply Lizzie Ogden. And such a warm-
hearted, trusting, lovable girl as she was, is
not likely ever to be forgotten.
	Later, as a wife and mother, her trueness
and fidelity never was, never could be sur-
passed by any woman in mortality. As a
consistent, conscientious Latter-day Saint,
in any position which fell to her lot, (and
she filled a number, in Relief Society, Sun-
day School and other Church works) Aunt
Lizzie’s example, both in word and action,
stands second to none.
	Brief reference may here be appropriate-
ly made to a testimony borne by her in one
of the fast meetings which she so much ap-
preciated and loved. The subject of tithe
paying was being discussed by the volun-
tary speakers in the meeting, when Aunt
Lizzie arose and told a pathetic little story
of how she once proved the Lord’s promises
in that regard to be true and worthy to be
trusted. The story amounted to this: To-
ward the close of the year, she had money
on hand, saved up for her year’s tithing.
But a strong temptation came to her not to
pay it into the Lord’s house then, but to use
it for much needed clothing, food and fuel
for the comfort of her dear children. For
some days she weighed the matter carefully,
turning it over and over in her mind, when
a new and unexpected hardship fell upon
her, intended, it seemed, to make her yield,
if possible, to the tempter’s persuasions not
to do her duty by paying her honest tithing.
The parties of whom she was renting the
home she occupied came and told her she
would have to move out, as the place was to
be sold. That appeared to cap the climax!
	To hunt new quarters and move at that
inclement season of the year, besides the in-
convenience and positive distress it must
occasion her and her children, meant loss of
time, days in which she could not be earn-
ing anything, and unlooked-for expenses
which she would have to meet. How could
she pay the little money she had for tithing
now? Once more the subject was being re-
volved in her mind, she examined it critical-
ly from all points, and fortunately her final
gaze rested upon the right side. She set-
tled the matter by asking and answering
these questions within herself:
	Who had provided for her and her chil-
dren during the past year? Who had
opened up her way and brought her oppor-
tunities by which she had earned the money
she had received, a tenth only of which she
had reserved to be given as an acknowledg-
ment of what had been granted to her?
Who, as an indulgent and loving Parent,
would be grieved if she, as a favored daugh-
ter, manifested a lack of faith and trust in
Him by selfishly withholding the little He
required her to return to Him, simply as a
bond of union, mutual interests and good-
fellowship between them?
	The one answer to these questions loomed
up bright in Aunt Lizzie’s mind. She knew
now where to look, whom to trust, what to
do.
	Rejoicing with gratitude that no greater
calamity had been permitted to fall upon
her notwithstanding her tardiness in yield-
ing obedience to a law of the Lord, she has-
tened to the proper place and paid her tith-
ing with a prayer in her heart that her
Father would accept it, and forgive her

[Column 3]
slothfulness. When she returned home, aft-
er settling her tithing, her children told her
their father’s brother-in-law, Uncle Fera-
morz Little, had sent word that he wanted
to see her. She answered at once the re-
quest of her friend and brother, Feramorz,
and went to see him. A friend and brother
indeed he proved to her at that time, one
that she knew the Lord raised up to help
her.
	“Uncle Fera” had heard of the sale to be
made of the property she occupied, and he
offered to advance the money for its pur-
chase as a loan for her and her children, al-
lowing them the privilege of paying him for
it when and as they might be able and de-
sirous of doing. The purchase was made,
and the blessings following it enabled Aunt
Lizzie and her children to pay Uncle Fera
every dollar of his money, and a just inter-
est on it, before the time spoken of in their
agreement had expired.
	A short time after Aunt Lizzie bore this
testimony in fast meeting, President George
Q. Cannon, who heard it, referred to it in a
council of some of the brethren, as one of
the most interesting and convincing testi-
monies in favor of tithe paying that he ever
heard given either by man or woman. One
of the brethren who was present when this
statement was made by President Cannon,
feeling it to be something his wife would ap-
preciate, told it to her. The wife in turn,
by way of encouragement and helpfulness,
repeated it to Aunt Lizzie.
	“Oh, I am so thankful to hear that!” was
Aunt Lizzie’s humble and grateful response.
“I have been so worried about that talk, for
fear I made it too lengthy.”
	It was at another of those dearly cher-
shed meetings, only last Sabbath, that we,
her sister workers in the Temple, last saw
and conversed with her; as, in her daugh-
ter’s arms, she passed suddenly and peace-
fully to her last, long sleep on Tuesday
morning. But we all have pleasant mem-
ories of kind and gentle words which she
spoke to us last Sunday. “How nice your
hat looks, you always wear becoming
things!” she said to one. To another, “Your
hair is so beautiful, and you’ve done it so
prettily!” These and kindred expressions
were her sweetly cherished, last goodbyes to
us, though we knew it not. When one of
us gave her a tender little embrace and
said fervently, “Bless you, Aunt Lizzie!”
from her ready, responsive heart came the
appreciative reply, “Oh! I do you feel that
way toward me? Do you really love me?
I am so glad! I would rather have love
from my friends than anything else they
could give me.”
	Dear Aunt Lizzie! She held rightful pos-
session of what she most prized.
	We all loved her!
