A PIONEER WOMAN PASSED AWAY.
	Sarah Ann Sargent Martin died at her
home in Wilson, Utah, October 25th, 1911,
after only a few days illness.
	She was born at Newbury, England, De-
cember 18, 1836.
	In 1851, the father, then a widower, and
his five children, having embraced the gos-
pel, sold their lovely home to come to Utah.
After a sea-voyage of thirteen weeks, they
prepared for the trip across the continent.
After furnishing ample means for crossing
the plains to Mr. Kelsey, the elder in charge,
they started up the Missouri river by steam-
boat, but here their real troubles began.
The “Saluda” was blown up and Mr. Sar-
gent was later found three hundred feet
away with every remaining cent stolen from
his dead body. The baby boy was never
found, and those left were terribly bruised
and burned.
	They were taken care of until recovery
by a kind family, who wanted to furnish
them means to return to their old home, if
they would give up the gospel. But their
dear father’s teachings held sway and they
hunted up Mr. Kelsey. He would only
give them an old ox team and one wagon.
	After their arrival in Salt Lake City, they
were destitute, and their trusted housekeeper
left them. Sister Martin, the oldest and
then only seventeen, was taken severely ill
of typhoid fever, but it was a case of work I
or starve, and she had to go to work before
she was recovered.


In 1855 she met and loved John Martin
and three weeks later was married to him.
Together they suffered all the hardships of
early pioneer life. Their home was burned
by the U. S. troops sent to wipe out the
“Mormons.” Locusts destroyed their crops
and they had to live on “greens” for weeks
at a time. Indians frightened them, and
hard work was their constant portion be-
cause they must raise and make their clothes
as well as their food.
	Sister Martin was the mother of twelve
children. She has been an active worker in
the Church. Since the organization of a Re-
lief Society in her ward in 1878, she has
been at its head. She was counselor to the
president until her death, then she took that
responsibility in ’97 and carried on the work
until a fall which crippled her necessitated
her resignation, only a short time before
her demise. Her release did not break her
enthusiasm and she still kept up her help-
ful visits to the poor or to the sick.
	Sister Martin was wrapped up in the
service of others, and her reward here was
the love and respect of those who knew her.
	She is survived by her venerable hus-
band, six children, forty-seven grand-
children and one sister, Louisa Harris, the
mother of Judge Harris of Ogden; as well
as a host of friends won by her ever hopeful,
amiable disposition.
