[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BENSON STAKE.
	The Benson Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in Richmond Nov. 9, 1911.
President Rebecca Rawlins presided, and
welcomed all present and hoped the Spirit of
the Lord would be in our midst during our
conference. Reports from the different
wards were then heard. A paper written
by Ida Rogers, on religion in the home, was
read by Maud Roskelley.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates, of the General
Board, spoke of the work the sisters have
to do and the work they are doing. We
must face the storm in order to do our
duty; spoke of Temple work; we must learn
to estimate time that we may attend to our
spiritual duties.
	Sister Edna May Davis, of the General
Board, spoke of the need of being prayer-
ful in order to perform our duties. We must
strive to have patience with our children and
especially the wayward ones.
	Afternoon Session.—After the opening
exercises Sister Mary J. Harrison made a
few opening remarks hoping we would have
an enjoyable time together. A very able
paper was given by Hannah Larson on
“Temple Work.” A song was nicely ren-
dered by Sister Isabella Holladay and chor-
us, after which Linnie Fisher of Oxford
recited a piece entitled, “The Old Home.”
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke of simplic-
ity in dress when entering the Temple—that
we should pay more attention to dressing
the mind than to dressing the body.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children to read, more
especially to read the Bible. She asked the
mothers to read to their little ones that they
might form the habit; also to teach our chil-
dren to pray—to pray with our boys, so that
when they grow older they will benefit by it.
	Brother Samuel Roskelley urged the sis-
ters to put into practice what they had
heard; after which the benediction was of-
fered by August S. Schow.
				OLIVE HARRIS, Sec.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the Ninth
Ward meeting house, Dec. 14, 1911, Coun-
selor Zurviah G. Eardley presiding, Presi-
dent Anna S. Musser being excused on ac-
count of being in quarantine. After the
opening exercises, the roll was called, each
ward being represented. Sister Eva M.
James then favored us with a solo, and the
Tenth, Thirty-third, Liberty and Emigra-
tion Wards were reported to be progressing
favorably and in the line of their duty.
Sister Lillian Malquist rendered a piano
solo.
	Sister Alice M. Horne of the General
Board addressed the conference, giving
good instructions, speaking words of en-
couragement, and urged all present to sub-
scribe for the Woman’s Exponent.
	The solo entitled “Sometime, Some-
where,” was rendered by Sister Eva James,
after which Elders C. W. Symons and T.
H. Woolley of the High Council spoke to us
for a short time, stating their interest in
Relief Society work, the influence for good
derived from it, encouraged us to seek in-
spiration from our Heavenly Father, and
expressed their desire to render what as-
sistance they could for the cause.

