MME. MOUNTFORT IN PASADENA.
	We republish from the Pasadena Star, of
Jan. 4, vivid notes from Madame Mount-
fort’s lecture given in that city. She gave
this same lecture in full dress, with all the
equipments, to an appreciative audience in
Barratt Hall, this city, on the evening of
December 27, the lecture being under the
auspices of the General Board of the Y. L.
M. I. A. The Star says:
	“Clad in the full white camel’s hair robe
of a Palestine shepherd, with historical rod
and staff, musical pipes, slings of the type
used by David in the slaying of Goliath,
shepherd’s bag and necessary contents,
Madame Von Finklestein Mountfort, a na-
tive of Jerusalem, gave a brilliant exposi-
tion of the ‘Shepherd’s Psalm’ last evening
at the First Methodist church. An impos-
ing presence, dramatic ability and deep
feeling for spiritual things made the ‘shep-
herd’ of the evening a most impressive one.
Madame Mountfort did not confine her line
of thought to the twenty-third psalm though
that was the inspiration for many illuminat-
ing references to other portions of the Scrip-
tures through which the shepherd idea runs
like a silver thread. Especially effective
was the story of the ‘Ninety and Nine’ when
the hunt for the lost one, down in the gorges
and up the mountain steeps, the calling and
coaxing in true shepherd fashion, ended in
the finding of the lamb. It was from ac-
tual experience that Madame Mountfort
spoke, and she knew the weird and thrilling
songs and calls of the shepherd, ‘for she had
lived in the land’ most of her life and many
a time had been with the shepherds on the
plains of Palestine or on the steep moun-
tain-sides.”
	Madame Mountfort’s visit to this city
recently was a very great pleasure and sat-
isfaction to her many old friends, who re-
call her former visits to Utah during the
nineties. She made her headquarters at the
Hotel Utah, where she received her old
friends, and gave several lectures in differ-
ent churches and meeting houses as well as
in the Tabernacle on Christmas Sunday,
Dec. 24, on the nativity of Christ. She was
clad in full, oriental dress of white, and
made a most striking appearance. Her de-
scription of Mary, the mother of the Savior,
and of her coming to Bethlehem with Jo-
seph, and the birth of the Babe, were all
given in a most graphic manner. Her ser-
mon must have made a deep impression on
the congregation. Mme. Mountfort herself
is certainly one of the most celebrated wom-
en of the world at the present day, and has
a most wonderful personality. At the great
international council, held in London in
1899, she represented the countries of the
far east, and was listened to with rapt at-
tention while giving the status of women
in those far-off lands.


