[Column 2]
deeply at the hidden fountains of the eter-
nal spring, the source of wisdom and
knowledge of the infinite.
	Poetry and song are gifts of the highest
order heaven has bestowed upon human
beings; and where they are combined with
art, the possessor is assuredly favored with
what is termed artistic temperament.
	One is at a loss to express the thoughts
and emotions that come involuntarily to
one’s mind when reading this delicate and
gracefully written poem—“The Rose.”
	The rose itself suggests, we naturally
think, lovers in a garden of roses. A sa-
cred thought:
“Of love triumphant, love’s exhaustless pain,
Behold the rose, a symbol and a sign!
Let no rough hand, with vandal touch, profane
The Rose whose beauty makes its life divine.”
	We would scarcely dare to think of writ-
ing a poem about roses after reading Al-
fred Lambourne’s verses on the rose—they
are so beautiful.
	The story of the rose, its meaning and
the sentiment it suggests, and almost ex-
presses in itelf, thrill one to overflowing,
and kindle within the poetic fire that make
one desire to drink freely at the Pierian
spring.
“The Rose from all this beauty takes a part,
While now Life’s deepest passion rules the
	Hour,
Now opens to the Light its fragrant Heart
The wondrous Richness of the perfect Flower.”
	It is impossible to give a good idea of
this marvelous poem unless one had time to
study it well; but Utah may well be proud
of the book, so perfect in every detail that
it would seem impossible to find any fault
either in the poem itself, its setting or its
finish from type to cover.
	Mr. Lambourne has contributed some of
the choicest literature that has ever been
produced in the state of Utah. All of his
books have been carefully written and hand-
somely published, and make a valuable col-
lection for any of the several libraries in
the state.
	He certainly possesses the true genius of
Poetry and though born in a foreign coun-
try, our own America may well be proud
of his writings. Had his life been spent in
England, where there is more of history and
romance than in America, he might perhaps
have won the distinction of poet-laureate to
the king or queen.
“Yes, now the Rose, the wonder of the Rose—
The Summer’s Queen that lists the Summer’s
	Choir,
Now paid the Debt that Love to Beauty owes
And in the Heart, the One Immortal Fire!”


