[Column 2]
but notwithstanding the fact that they were
farmers the homes were built close together, 
and wisely, too. When the immigration in-
creased, the counsel was to scatter out and
build more homes, so what was at first the
founding of a city in a few short years be-
came the building of a state. In order to
encourage and assist those sent farther away
to take up land and build homes, members
of the general authorities were called to
different localities to instruct the people and
to make them better satisfied in building
away from the center stake of Zion. Thus,
men who had acquired fine building sites and
had located their families in some degree of
comfort, “pulled up stakes” again, in obedi-
ence to the word of those in authority, and
moved into other parts. Almost all the
members of the quorum of the Twelve were
called to do this. For instance, Franklin D.
Richards, who owned the property just
south of Second South on West Temple,
near where the Dooly block and other fine
business property now stands, was called to
Weber Co., where he figured largely in the
building up of Ogden and neighboring
towns. Lorenzo Snow built and owned the
commodious and once handsome home after-
wards occupied by Hiram B. Clawson on
Third East and South Temple streets, and
was called to build up Box Elder county.
Ezra T. Benson built the large, stately home
on the corner of Main and South Temple,
afterwards known as the “Wells Mansion,”
and now the site of the Templeton and other
business blocks; he went to build up Cache
county. Charles C. Rich, a large property
owner in the northwest part of town
founded and led in the building of Bear
Lake county. Orson Hyde went to Sanpete,
Erastus Snow to St. George and Arizona,
Amasa Lyman to Millard county, and
George A. Smith to Iron county, all show-
ing that the acquiring of land and building
of homes has ever been considered an es-
sential part of the religion of the Latter-
day Saints.
	An up-to-date architect would perhaps
think some of the homes of early days,
erected by those in position to build large
houses, perfect monstrosities on account of
the size of the rooms, the thickness of the
walls, the depth of the window seats, the
broad beams, close studding and high ceil-
ings; still there is an air of stability and
comfort and ease about these old homes,
which the modern home does not possess.
However, it is a fact that from many points
of economy, both in means and labor, these
old colonial houses are relegated largely to
the past, and the modern home, with small
compartments, low ceilings, few if any
stairs, and conveniences of steam, water or
air heat, hot and cold water with bath and
toilet and oftentimes laundry, all under one
roof, are much easier on the house wife and
really more cosy and home-like, if not so
pretentious and imposing.
	The choosing of the site for the house de-
pends altogether on the piece of property
one happens to own, or is able to purchase.
One thing certain, we cannot all live on the
“east side,” nor on the high lands; but if
we happen to have to build and live, as most
of us here do, on the “west side,” and near
the low lands, it is well to choose the high-
est part of our land on which to build our
homes, thus giving a pleasant grade for the
yard from the door to the street, besides
being better from a sanitary standpoint

[Column 3]
since all drainage would be from the house
and not towards it. The house should be
built as high and as far above the ground as
the features of the site and the means of the
builder will allow, especially where the land
is inclined to be marshy and damp, as is the
case in a large part of this stake, to avoid
malaria and kindred diseases to which such
lands are subject.
	It seems to me very hard to tell in the
Parents’ class just how to build a home.
One might have in mind a home that would
cost three or four thousand dollars or more,
with hardwood floors, plate-glass windows,
sideboards, dressers and bookcases built in
the walls to save space, and few if any of us
be able to follow any such plans. I believe
thoroughly in every one striving to own a
home, and in that home to put his best
thought for points of convenience and com-
fort and happiness for himself and family;
to care for that home with all his best en-
deavor; to have it clean and wholesome
and neat; and if in our discussions in the
Parents’ class we can throw out suggestions
to help each other build better, purer, safer
and more beautiful homes, let us do it.
	The ideal home to me, as I said in the
beginning of this article, depends on the oc-
cupants, not on the architecture. However,
an ideal house is a very different thing, and
in this matter tastes differ so widely that it
would be difficult to describe one. Some
general principles, however, might be car-
ried out in the building of any home: first,
to have the house and all surroundings as
sanitary as possible for the sake of the health
of one’s family; plenty of light and sunshine
in the rooms help in this matter; simplicity
in the wood work—if hardwood is too ex-
pensive, the natural soft wood stained is
much easier to keep clean than painted, as
are also plain mouldings instead of orna-
mental casings and skirtings; pantries are
not any longer considered a necessity, and
the housewife finds the kitchen sideboard
much more handy and labor saving; she
also prefers that the sink be not too far away
from the stove, and the small kitchen is very
much more popular. Most women will tell
you that if they could only have three rooms,
they would want one of them to be a bath-
room; and indeed this is a necessary luxury.
The sleeping porch is also very popular even
on the smallest houses. It is believed to be
the means of curing some diseases and pre-
venting others; in that respect it is economy
to build one, for health is wealth, and what
was once held to be only a fad has become
now a most desirable accessory to the mod-
ern home. The furnishings of a home are
altogether a matter of taste and knowledge
of one’s means. Good books, pretty pic-
tures and like accessories are inexpensive
and add largely to the beauty and pleasure
of a home, and it is very easy to contrive
pretty dressing tables and other furnishings
out of rude material if one possesses a little
ingenuity and good taste. Where the fam-
ily means allow, of course the furnishings
can be as elegant as one chooses. However,
“Are you not surprised to find how inde-
pendent of money peace of conscience is and
how much happiness can be condensed in
the humblest home? A cottage will not
hold the bulky furniture and sumptuous ac-
commodations of a mansion; but if God be
there a cottage will hold as much happiness
as might stock a palace. 			A. W. C.


