CLARA BARTON IS 90.
	On December 25, Miss Clara Barton,
founder of the American National Red
Cross Society, was showered with greetings
and good wishes in honor of her 90th birth-
day.
	Although feeble from her illness early in
the year, Miss Barton was able to celebrate
the day with relatives and friends who spent
Christmas with her at her home in Glen
Echo, Md.
	Miss Barton has probably been the means
of relieving more human suffering than any
other person in the United States. Like
Florence Nightingale, she has been a life-
long advocate of equal rights for women.
in an address given at the May Festival
of the New England W. S. A. some years
ago, Miss Barton said:
	“I believe I must have been born believ-
ing in the full right of woman to all the
privileges and positions which nature and
justice accord to her in common with other
human beings. Perfectly equal rights—
human rights. There was never any ques-
tion in my mind in regard to this. I did not
purchase my freedom with a price; I was
born free; and when, as a younger woman,
heard the subject discussed, it seemed sim-
ply ridiculous that any sensible, rational per-
son should question it. And when, later,
the phase of woman’s right to suffrage came
up, it was to me only a part of the whole,
just as natural, just as right, and just as cer-
tain to take place.
	“And whenever I have been urged as a
petitioner to ask for this privilege for wom-
an, a kind of dazed, bewildered feeling has
come over me.
	“Of whom should I ask this privilege?
Who possessed the right to confer it? Who
had greater right than woman herself? Was
it man, and, if so, how did he get it? Who
conferred it upon him? He depended upon
woman for his being, his very existence,
nurture and rearing. More fitting that she
should have conferred it upon him I
	“Was it governments? What were they
but the voice of the people? What gave
them their power? Was it divinely con-
ferred ? Alas! no; or they would have been
better, purer, more just and stable.
	“Was it force of arms—war? Who fur-
nished the warriors? Who but the moth-
ers ? Who reared the sons and taught them
that liberty and their country were worth
their blood? Who gave them up, wept
their fall, nursed them in suffering, and
mourned them dead?
	“Was it labor? Women have always, as a
rule, worked harder than men.
	“There is, once in a while, a monarch
who denies the right of man to place a
crown upon his head. Only the great Je-
hovah can crown and anoint him for his
work, and he reaches out, takes the crown,
and places it upon his head with his own
hand. I suspect that this is in effect what
woman is doing today. Virtually there is
no one to give her the right to govern her-
self, as men govern themselves by self-made
and self-approved laws of the land. But in
one way or another, sooner or later, she
is coming to it. And the number of thought-
ful and right-minded men who will oppose
will be much smaller than we think and
when it is really an accomplished fact, all
will wonder, as I have done, what the objec-
tion ever was.”—The Woman’s Journal.


