[Column 1]
	THE BUSINESS OF HOME MAKING.
	[The following interesting paper on the above
subject was read before a recent meeting of Par-
ents’ class instructors in the Sunday School union
meeting of Pioneer stake. While there are some
allusions and suggestions that may be deemed of
local application, there is so much of interest in
the paper that we are pleased to publish it as
read.―Ed.]
	The subject as given in the Juvenile In-
structor for discussion in the Parents’ class
for the coming month offers a wide and
varied field, treating as it purposes to do
with the selecting of a building spot, the
building of the home, the exterior and in-
terior arrangements, the decorating, the
furnishing, the surroundings, the outhouses
and fences, and even the sunshine and the
shade. It would certainly have been wiser
in my opinion had the stake supervisors se-
lected an architect, or at any rate a man, to
present this subject today to the present
company; at least some one who could give
good practical suggestions, rather than one
who had lived in many homes but had yet
the pleasure in anticipation of building a
house; for the only houses I have built are
air castles which, like the morning-glory,
fade in the glare and heat of the sun.
	The subject is “Home-making,”—and the
outline is “House-making;” between which,
though I don’t wish to be critical, there is
a vast difference. The former, though of
the humblest architecture, may be a heaven-
ly place, while the latter, though a palace,
may hold not one of the attributes of home.
Charles Dickens aptly portrays the home
thought when he says: “The man of high
descent may love the halls and lands of his
inheritance as a part of himself, as trophies
of his birth and power. The poor man’s at-
tachment to the tenement he holds, which
strangers have held before and may tomor-
row occupy again, has a worthier root
struck deep into a purer soil. His house-
hold gods are of flesh and blood; he has no
property but in the affections of his own
heart, and when they endear bare floors and
walls, despite of toil and scanty meals, that
man has his love of home from God and his
rude hut becomes a solemn place.”
	After all, whether the house we occupy
is humble or magnificent, built of wood or
stone, is our own or rented, the home spirit
depends on the conduct of its inhabitants.
If every builder of a home puts into it the
best of himself, cheerfulness, contentment
and love, he has builded better than he
knew.
	The Latter-day Saints are home-makers
and home-builders. The business of home-
making is a part of their religion, and or-
ganization. When as a weary, footsore band
of pilgrims they entered these valleys, one
of the first steps taken was the apportion-
ment of lands to the heads of families for
homes. As perhaps you all are aware, each
city block contained ten acres and an acre
and a quarter was allotted each family. It
was always the policy of the Church in the
founding of cities to build rather close for
the sake of protection against the wild ani-
mals and savages, and also for social and re-
ligious purposes; and though now the dan-
gers of the desert are lessened, it is still
Church advice to the people when settling
new parts to make the homes close and go
back and forth to the farms.
	The people were necessarily agriculturists

