[Column 2]
tries in its picturesque and successful cele-
brations of this happy occasion. The char-
acteristic display upon the streets as pre-
served in word painting by those who have
in early life taken part in the songs and
festivities, the general music and display of
color and its accompaniments, is quite be-
yond description on paper: it must be seen
and heard to be effective. To be candid, it
is quite impossible to do the thing except at
Christmas time when the true Christmas
spirit is in the atmosphere and all hearts are
touched with the overflow of vitality that
bubbles forth in bursts of merriment and
joyousness. There is evidently such gayety
in the air that it intoxicates the brain of all
those who are susceptible to the influence
that uplifts as it were the humor of the
people at Christmas time. The feelings and
emotions, with the touch of human kind-
ness, that pervade the home and the family
circle at Christmas time instil a general
tenderness throughout all the village or
town. There is so much of goodness in the
workaday world that holiday times are wel-
comed more joyously than would be possible
perhaps without Christmas.
	After all, the celebration of Christmas
promotes and accomplishes far more good
than evil, even though folly and extrava-
gance are indulged in to a great extent.
Hospitality and the renewal of friendship’s
ties; the meeting together of families—all
these things make for that peace and unity
which is most desirable. Nothing in life is
more to be encouraged among friends and
kindreds than good fellowships, and the
coming together socially has the tendency
to eliminate ill feeling and to develop the
more excellent qualities of the heart and
mind that are latent in our souls, and to
create a desire for the higher aspirations
which produce harmony and lift us above the
petty weaknesses in ourselves or in others.
Good cheer is always enlivening and when
the feast is ready and grace is said, then
smiles, jests, and merriment prevail, and
after that, what more? Old songs are sung
and stories told, and fond recollections un-
veiled. Thus the soul is feasted.
	And so we say, “Christmas brings glad-
ness and joy.”


