48)
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
THE RESTORED GOSPEL DISPENSATION
Lesson 3
A Practical Religion?Brigham Young (Tuesday, December 3)
"What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him?" (James 2:14)
OF the seventy-six years that elapsed between the birth of Brigham Young on June 1, 1801, and his death in August, 1877, forty-two were spent in the presiding councils of the Church. For thirty-three years he presided over its destiny, and these years proved to be among the most crucial for the existence of the Restored Church. By nature, experience, and divine endowment he was well fitted as successor to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Being strong physically, he had the stamina to face the vicissitudes of pioneer life. He had the ability to make friends and hold the allegiance of those whom he directed. Close contact with the Prophet had taught him the ways of the Lord and the ultimate destiny of the Church. While the Prophet was incarcerated in Missouri prisons during the winter of 1838-1839, he had managed the exodus of the Saints from Missouri, which served as excellent training for the great trek to the West that was soon to follow. His humility, sincerity and keen spiritual sense made him a worthy successor to receive the inspiration of the Lord for the welfare of the infant Church.
THE CHURCH IN THE GREAT BASIN. Once settled within the protecting ranges of the Rockies, Brigham Young and those associated with him in the presiding councils of the Church undertook a task that has won the acclaim of the world. Outwardly, it was to conquer the forces of nature and make fruitful fields of the barren wastes. But in the mind of Brigham Young, this practical side was but a means toward an end. Colonization, agricultural success, industrialization, and economic independence were stressed by him. Even the religious services on Sunday were often devoted to the furtherance of these vital phases of existence, until visiting observers sometimes said the Mormon Church was but a business organization. But back of all the stress placed upon success in these worldly pursuits was the concept in the leader's mind of the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth. The various settlements were naught but the driving of the stakes of the tabernacle of Zion more firmly into the earth, The industries and
LESSON DEPARTMENT
agriculture were more than just means of existence. They furnished work which developed Christian character and habits of industry, provided the financial means by which the Church was able to continue its redeeming work for the souls of men, and were the support of the missionary system. Never were success in overcoming the obstacles of nature or the accumulation of wealth lauded for their own sakes. They were only commendable when they enabled the possessor to further "The Kingdom."
THE KINGDOM OF GOD ON EARTH. From the standpoint of Brigham Young, the Kingdom of God was threefold, consisting of the temporal salvation of man, the missionary work to save the world, and the spiritual enrichment of those who had allied themselves with the Kingdom. Hence, religion became an integral part of life in its entirety and not a phase of worship or thinking entirely divorced from the conduct of daily life. He once said, "Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday must be spent to the Glory of God, as much as Sunday, or we shall come short of the object of our pursuit." (Journal of Discourses 13:26) While pious critics have even said that Brigham Young's admixture of religion and the practical phases of life were sacrilegious, one need only turn to the Old Testament prophets or the Epistle of James to see that true religion is more than a mental assent or a passive attitude. In leading latter-day Israel in its economic, social, and political, as well as its religious advancement, Brigham Young was inspired as God has in-
637
spired His prophets in all ages of the world.
1. The Temporal Salvation of Man. Upon entering the valley of the Great Salt Lake, the Mormon pioneers were faced with a very practical situation. They must make it sustain them or they would perish. They might have set about to conquer the wilderness individually, as pioneers elsewhere so often did. Instead, their inspired leader had a different plan. It consisted of community colonization, whereby the cooperative effort of the group could subdue physical obstacles, afford protection from hostile Indians, provide for its own needy, care for the education of young and old, while spiritual strength was afforded by Church worship. But it is interesting to observe that Brigham Young attributed this plan to the Prophet Joseph. The very city-plan adopted for Salt Lake and most of the Mormon settlements in the Rocky Mountains, followed the plan given by Joseph Smith for use in laying out "Zion" in Missouri. Having selected colonists for a specific site, so that a variety of occupations and talents were included, they were encouraged to become self-supporting. Cotton, silk-worm, sugar beet, fruit and nut cultures were started, as well as the raising of staple grains and vegetables. Irrigation, of necessity, was developed. Leather, clothing, sugar, silk, cotton, woolen, iron, brick, stone, paper, and other industries were established. Cooperative merchandising was instituted. Education of children was made an obligation of parents and the community, but formal book learning was not enough. Both boys and girls were taught useful occupations
638
as well as the arts. In all these activities, the education was given under the guidance of the spirit of the Lord. Sensing the psychological principle that recreation is needed for good mental and physical health, the Church fostered the play-life of the community, for the purpose of affording constructive recreation.
2. Missionary Work. While building Zion in the tops of the mountains, Brigham Young was not forgetful of the need of increasing the membership of the Church, that it might fulfil its destiny. The missionary work in Europe was extended to include most of the European nations. A more systematic organization of the missions to cover the North American continent and the islands of the sea, as well as those in oriental lands, was effected. The organization of the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company was designed to facilitate the gathering of the nations to the new Zion.
3. Spiritual Welfare. While it is true that Brigham Young placed great emphasis on the practical phases of life, the world has been too prone to forget that he was equally great as a spiritual teacher. The numerous sermons in the Journals of Discourses attest a spirituality that was able to reveal divine truths. He pushed to completion the St. George Temple and selected the sites for the Salt Lake, Manti and Logan temples, indicating his great interest in the salvation for the dead as well as the living.
ATTITUDE TOWARD WOMEN. Not only did Brigham Young believe in civil equality for women, but he had some advanced ideas for his day concerning their place in so-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940
ciety. He thought that women should first of all become good wives and mothers, but before marriage and after the children were grown to maturity there were years in which useful service could be rendered outside the home. So he encouraged them to become bookkeepers, accountants, typesetters, telegraph operators, dressmakers, teachers, storekeepers, nurses, midwives and doctors. Furthermore, not only could they be of service to the community and Church through the Relief Society, but he approved them as members of school boards and leaders in civic affairs.
BRIGHAM YOUNG'S CARDINAL VIRTUES. Abhorring idleness, dishonesty and unethical conduct, the great pioneer leader's characteristics were industry, honesty, thrift, sobriety, temperance, chastity, justice, love of children, compassion for the sufferer, and humility.
CONFESSION OF DEBT TO JOSEPH SMITH. Repeatedly throughout his sermons he attributed what he did to the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. On one occasion he said, "... What I have received from the Lord I have received by Joseph Smith. He was the instrument made use of. If I drop him, I must drop these principles. They have not been revealed, declared, or explained by any other man, since the days of the Apostles."
AN APPRAISAL OF BRIGHAM YOUNG. Summarizing the place of Brigham Young in the settlement of the West, B. H. Roberts gives the following estimate of his greatness: "These achievements
LESSON DEPARTMENT
write down Brigham Young as the Greatest Pioneer and Colonizer of modern times?an Empire Founder; and place him easily among the first score of Great Americans." (Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V, page 513)
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. Pioneering on the American Frontier was extremely difficult for the women and resulted in much physical and mental suffering and premature death. Mormon communities, however, were not greatly plagued by these evils. To what extent do you think the Relief Society of the Church was responsible for this? What other factors in Mormon colonization do you think may have helped to prevent these tragedies?
2. What influence did Doctrine and Covenants 68:30 and 75:28, 29 have on Brigham Young's attitude toward industriousness?
3. What purpose do you suppose Brigham Young had in mind in establishing numerous settlements throughout the Intermountain Region, rather than in encouraging the settlement of a few large cities?
4. What practical message for today's problems can we learn from Brigham Young's plan of cooperatives?
5. How do you account for Brigham Young's liberal attitude toward the place of women in society?
Topics for Study, and Special Reports
1. Comment on this statement of Professor Thomas Nixon Carver of Harvard University: "I have never found more sound and wholesome personal habits than
639
among the Mormons. I have never mingled with people who showed fewer signs of dissipation. I have never studied groups of people who seemed better nourished and more healthy. I have never known people who took more pains to educate their children. This gives a clue to the success of the Mormons as colonizers and nation builders." (The Westerner, April, 1930)
2. Read the quotations from Brigham Young's sermon, printed on pages 264-265 of Nibley's Brigham Young: The Man and His Work, and comment on his advice in view of our present-day society.
3. Read chapter 35 of Discourses of Brigham Young and report on some of the spiritual instruction given in his sermons.
References
Wm. E. Berrett, The Restored Church, pp. 359-454. Discourses of Brigham Young. Contains numerous quotations from his sermons, topically arranged. Deseret News, Church Section, "A Contrast in Civilizations," Glynn Bennion, September 9, 1939. Very good on Brigham Young's reason for discouraging the Saints to mine for precious metals, Improvement Era, "Utah's Pioneer Women Doctors," by Claire Wilcox Noall. A series of articles commencing in the January, 1939, issue, pp. 16 ff. John Henry Evans, The Heart of Mormonism, pp. 369-439. Susa Y. Gates and Leah D. Widtsoe, Life Story of Brigham Young, pp. 114-154; 199-309; 320-380. Preston Nibley, Brigham Young: The Man and His Work, pp. 534-542. B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. 3, pp. 268-283; 382-498; Vol. 5, pp. 76-131; 216-238; 509-518. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 565-574.
"HE (Brigham Young) was always one with the people, and thousands familiarly called him 'Brother Brigham.' He did not set himself up to be great; he set himself up to be a servant of God, and he was one, in word and in deed."