Vol. XXVII SEPTEMBER, 1940 No. 9
EDITORIALS
A Land Of Liberty
IN New York harbor stands the colossal Statue of Liberty, proclaiming to all the world that this is a land of freedom and opportunity, a land where liberty reigns, and that its light shall enlighten the world. One hundred and fifty-three years ago this month (September 17, 1787) the founding fathers brought forth their proposed Constitution of the United States and offered the document for ratification to the thirteen states. The Constitution was planned to perpetuate American liberty, which had been so dearly won by the American Revolution; all other aims were subordinate. The fifty-five delegates who framed the Constitution were an unusual body of men. Among them were soldiers, planters, lawyers, physicians, merchants and judges. Some of them were rich and others were poor. One of the ablest among them had been a penniless painter. Another, Rodger Sherman, had been a poor shoemaker who had studied at night to become a lawyer. George Washington had been trained in the stern school of war. But they represented the keenest intellects of the states. They were students of government. They knew history and were familiar with the struggle of the English people toward liberty. They knew the bitter struggle that had won American independence. Most important of all, they knew the worth of liberty for the happiness and well-being of mankind. Calvin Coolidge truly said, "To live under the Constitution is the greatest political privilege that was ever accorded to the human race." For over one hundred fifty years its blessing and its strength have been proved. Through years of great social and economic change, it has accommodated itself to American life and safeguarded the liberty and happiness of the American people. The right of mankind to enjoy liberty comes from God. The law of liberty is God's law. In the far-distant past this momentous question was settled in the Council in Heaven when Lucifer's plan of compulsion was rejected and Christ's plan of free agency was accepted. According to God's prophets, America is a land of promise, designed to be a land where the inhabitants may enjoy liberty as long as they serve God and keep His commandments. The Book of Mormon. Records the words of Lehi: "... We have obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands;... Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. "... There shall be none come into this land save they shall be brought: by the hand of the Lord. "Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve Him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them..." How marvelous are the opportunities and benefits derived from living in this land of the free. The American people have the highest standard of living in the world. We are free to voice our opinions, to say 619 how and by whom we shall be governed. We enjoy a free press. We may worship God in our churches unmolested. America offers free schooling. We have a free public library system with extension service to villages and farms. This is a land where each individual is privileged to develop his gifts and achieve according to his ability; it is a "land where each man and each woman shall be able to attain to the fullest stature of which they are innately capable." America is indeed a land of privilege and opportunity, a choice land, a land of promise. But even as the prophets have promised the inhabitants of this land great blessings, so also have they told us: "... He that doth possess it shall serve God or shall be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God." (Ether 2:10) In the words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. "The price of the promised blessing of freedom has always been and ever will be the serving of Jesus Christ, the God of this land. Notice to Class Leaders THE moving picture based on the book, The Tree of Liberty, which is to be used in the literature department of the Relief Society for the coming year, 1940-41, will be released in late September and will be shown in local theaters during the fall. The picture will not be given the title of the book, but instead will be called The Howards of Virginia. At one time the publishers of The Tree of Liberty, Farrar and Rinehart, contemplated issuing a cheaper edition of the book at the time the moving picture was released; but according to very recent information from them, this will not be done. Consequently, this book will be available to class leaders at the regular price, which is $3. Some of the lessons in the educational departments of the Relief Society this coming year, 1940-41, have various Church Sections of the Deseret News listed as references. Class leaders may procure these Sections by writing directly to the Deseret News, Salt Lake City, and enclosing five cents for each copy desired..