"OUR Centennial will be not only an appraisal of the past but a dedication to the future."—President Amy Brown Lyman,
HAPPENINGS
By Annie Wells Cannon
SEPTEMBER — it was a lovely morning when the little fellow started to school. I wonder why my eyes were dimmed with tears?
ELIZABETH BIRD HOWELLS, 94 years old, pioneer of three states—California, Utah, and Idaho —demonstrated the truth of the poet's lines, "Ah, nothing is too late, Till the tired heart shall cease to palpitate," when last month she made a trip by plane from Salt Lake City to San Francisco to attend the dedication of a plaque commemorating the arrival of the first party of American emigrants to land from sea on California shores. A sailing vessel, the ship Brooklyn, carrying 235 Latter-day Saints from Boston, down the Atlantic, around Cape Horn, up the Pacific, after a voyage of six months reached San Francisco Bay, July 31, 1846, and landed her precious cargo. The city was then called Yerba Buena. Mrs. Howell is now the only surviving member of that company. She is an interesting figure anywhere, and greatly enjoyed her trip and the marvelous changes she beheld. She was the honored guest of the San Francisco Camp of Daughters of Utah Pioneers.
LAURA INGALLS, famous woman aviator, believes there is a tremendous future for women in aviation, and she is training women now in order to have them ready to take part in the intensive defense program.
CARRIE C. GANSCHOW, formerly of Chicago, where she was a worker in the Logan Square Relief Society, was recently awarded a medal and prize of $25 as the outstanding "good neighbor" in her community. The award, made by the Jefferson Park Times, followed a vote taken in that Chicago suburb of about 10,000 inhabitants.
ALICE MARBLE is now the world's premiere tennis player, since she defeated the brilliant English champion, Mary Hardwick, at the Seabright, New Jersey, tournament.
FORMER Empress Zita of Austria-Hungary, a refugee from Nazi military conquests, has been joined in America by her children—a reunion of great happiness.
THE Ranee of Sarawak, wife of Sir Charles Viner Brook, the white Rajah of Sarawak, a British state in Borneo, is in the United States on a lecture tour in behalf of the evacuation of children from the British Isles.
MARY FIELD GARNER, age 104, of Utah, was an interested spectator of the parade, July 24, depicting pioneer days. What golden memories are hers!
SARAH A. J. CANNON, 80, beloved and faithful Relief Society and temple worker of 30 years' service, died this past summer. Other faithful Utah pioneer mothers who passed on were Anna Boren, 93, of Provo; Martha F. Taylor, 95, of Lehi; and Mary W. Harman, 97, of Salt Lake.
FLEMISH women are now planting potatoes, where the poppies and tulips grew.
 
Donna D. Sorensen - - - Second Counselor Vera W. Pohlman - - - Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Anna S. Barlow Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd
Luella N. Adams Gertrude B. Darley Lorna B. Fetzer Marianne C. Sharp Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman