Some Persian Poets You Will Like Estelle S. Harris LIVING in Persia during the last year has given me an opportunity of learning something of the rich literature of this very interesting country, in which every person is something of a poet. I want to share with you a little of the pleasure I have found in becoming acquainted with the writings of a few of the many poets who, during the past thousand years, have built up a literature which is surpassed by that of few countries of the world. Probably in no country does its poetry enter into the lives of all the people more than in Persia. These, people may be unlettered in modern science, but they cannot be called unlearned, since they have a much better knowledge of their classics than the average American has of the masterpieces in his own language. On a recent trip we took, a fellow traveler recited poems by the hour, and he had at his finger-tips the main known facts about scores of poets. Occasionally one meets a person who can recite from memory as many as four thousand passages of poetry. I venture that almost any person you might stop on the street in Persia would be able to tell you something about Ferdowsi, Sa'di or Hafiz. The poetry of such a long period of time is known because of the fact that the language of Iran, or Persia, as it is more popularly known, has changed but little during a thousand years. This is not true of any other language. Even at' present the "Academy" is assigned the task of eliminating foreign words and restoring into general use words of Persian origin. How different it is with the English language; the poetry of one who wrote as late as Chaucer in the fourteenth century cannot be understood without special study. One writer has said: "To the Persian, his national poetry is what the Psalms were to Europe in the Middle Ages—-an incentive to action, a consolation in trouble." The muleteer driving his mules, the shepherd on the hillside, the digger of a well, or the office worker during his period of rest is fond of reciting popular and classical verse from the poets who have recorded tales of national heroism or expressed the wisdom of the ages and the passions of the human soul. ET us take a glimpse at some of these poets who are regarded so highly in the affections of all Persians and whose verses add enjoyment to the lives of all classes in this land where beauty is given place above utility. -The first is one of the greatest. His long life was devoted to recording in verse the heroic tales of his country. Most countries, at some time in their history, have produced an epic poem; Persia is no exception. Ferdowsi, who was born just about a thousand years ago, brought together in the great work Shahnamah a collection of stories and legends of all the Persian kings up to the Arab conquest in 636 A. D. This covers some 3600 years. Much of the story tells of the conflict between Iran and Turan, or Turkey, having many 600 things in common with the conflict between Greece and Troy, which is the subject of the better known classics. In the first part, the main characters are personified powers of good and evil, Urmuzd and Ahriman. The second part is devoted to the Shahs and other kings who are the heroes. One of the most familiar of the stories is that of Sohrab and Rustum which has been known to many of us through the poem of Matthew Arnold. This has been a required treading in some of the schools. Rustum is one of the great legendary national heroes of Persia. 'Teheran has a modern bronze statue of him killing a dragon. The Shahnamah story tells in very touching manner of the conflict of Rustum with his son Sohrab without either knowing the identity of the other. His horse, Rakush, was always a great aid in the contests and battles of his master, who was ever valiant in fighting for the king. Shah Mahmud was the patron of Ferdowsi during the thirty or more years he spent in writing the great epic; but due to some intrigue at court, he obtained the enmity of the poet, who expressed his feelings in satirical lines from which the following are taken: "O tree whereof the fruit is bitter, even if thou plantest it in the Garden of Paradise, And if at the time of watering, thou pourest on its roots nectar and fine honey from the River of Paradise, It will in the end give effect to its nature, and bring forth that same bitter fruit." We do not know a great deal about the life of Ferdowsi. He was born about 941 in Tus, a city in  

 northeast part of the country. Today his name is a household word, and his lofty verse is quoted in many homes. It is said that as his corpse was being taken for burial out of one gate of his native Tus a messenger arrived at another gate bringing restitution from the Shah who had been unjust to him. He is rated as the greatest poet of his age and one of the greatest of all ages according to some. His epic was written somewhat earlier than some of the great epics of other lands, as he finished his in 1010. For example, the Spanish epic of Cid dates back to 1140; the French Song of Roland back to the eleventh century, and the German Song of the Nibelungs was first written about 1200. The stories of all these epics before they were written were told and retold for many generations. If you like epics, you will enjoy Shahnamah. N the next few centuries after the great epic poet, Persia had a rapid succession of sweet singers. The one who is best known to the western world is Omar Khayyam whose Rubaiyat, translated by Fitzgerald, has been available to English readers for a generation. Which one of us has not delighted in these stately quatrains, and who has not tried to repeat the one about "A Book of Verses underneath the Bough." Khayyam, though best known in some foreign lands, is not regarded by Persia as her greatest poet. It was in other fields than poetry, such as mathematics and astronomy, that he made his greatest contribution. If you are not in too great a hurry, and if you are not looking for a plot but are satisfied with reading each SOME PERSIAN POETS YOU WILL LIKE verse for its own beauty, you will find pleasure in reading the Rubaiyat. This book is sold in any book store, a thing not true of the works of the other poets of Iran., Soon after Khayyam, Jelaluddin Rumi _ attracted attention by his verse. He claimed descent from Abubekr, father-in-law of Mohammed. He studied in Damascus and Aleppo and became a college teacher, gaining a reputation for his learning as well as for his religious devotion. His interest was in getting people to worship, and he thought they "might be tempted to love God through the bait of sweet sounds addressed to their outward senses." His piety led him to found the order of Dancing Dervishes. Incidentally, the head of this order has been in the same family for over six hundred years. He wrote the Mesnevi, which is to the Mehlevi fathers what the Acts of the Apostles is to us. This work contains many hundreds of stories, each giving an account of some miracle or unusual experience. Attached to the stories are moral maxims. Rumi lived between 1207 and 1273. Coming in between Khayyam and Rumi, we have Nizami (1141-1203), who told in exquisite verse some of the most beautiful stories in all literature. He retold the old Arabian story of Laili and Majnun, which is an unsurpassed example of devotion and love, with a tenderness and pathos that stir the reader to the very depths. Nizami is the great Persian romantic poet. Hafiz said of him: "Not all the treasured lore of ancient days Can boast the sweetness of Nizami's lays." Sa'di said of him when he died: "Gone is Nizami, our exquisite pearl,
601
which heaven in its kindness formed of purest dew, as the gem of the world." His works are: The Storehouse of Mysteries, Koshru and Shirin, Diwan, Laili and Majnun, Book of Alexander, and Seven Fair Faces.
ANOTHER poet greatly beloved in Persia, and by many considered the greatest, is Sa'di (1184- 1291), who was born in Shiraz in southern Persia. Although his father died when he was young, he had a patron who sent him to school in Baghdad, where he came under the influence of eminent men. For thirty years he traveled extensively, making at least twelve pilgrimages to Mecca. While traveling, he associated with all kinds of people; observing keenly, he was able to make use of this rich experience in his writings. He returned to Shiraz somewhat of a linguist and started writing. He published his two great works, Gulistan or Rose Garden, in 1258, and Bustan or Orchard, in 1257. Gulistan is a series of stories written in prose interspersed with verse giving the moral. Professor Browne said of Sa'di: "His real charm and the secret of his popularity lie not in his consistency but in his catholicity; in his works is matter for every taste, the highest and lowest." His poems are the first studied in the schools of Iran. Here are some choice bits:
"Green was the gay apparel of the woods, Like festal robes on happy multitudes, One with bright-robed tulips all aflame, One dark with fruits of many a curious name, The wind, amid the shadows of its bowers, Had diapered the jewelled turf with flowers."
One writer said of Sa'di's writings: "The bitter tonic of advice is sweetened with honey of wit." The following are taken from Gulistan, which is full of sage sayings:
"If you know of news which will cause pain, be silent and let others disclose it. Nightingale bring word of spring, Leave bad news to the owl."
"I saw a holy man upon the seashore, who had been torn by a tiger. No drug could relieve his pain; greatly he endured, and yet was forever giving thanks to God most high, saying: 'Praised be Allah that I have fallen into ill luck, and not into sin'"
"Musk is known by its perfume, and not by the druggist's label. The wise man is like a vase in an apothecary's shop, silent but full of virtue, whilst the ignorant man is loud of voice, like the warrior's drum."
The special field of Sa'di was the moral tale, the maxim and the fable, all of which he does with a certain charm. He said of his own works that "the pearls of salutary counsel are strung on the thread of diction, and the bitter medicine of advice is mingled with the honey of mirthful humor." He wrote late in life, and his works show the mind of a matured philosopher who could wink at the follies of humanity. He was a realist who pictured the life of highway and bazaar. He has been loved by successive generations of Persians for over six hundred years.
SHIRAZ is honored in being the birth and burial place of two of Persia's greatest poets. Hafiz was born there early in the fourteenth century, living his entire life in Persia. By many he is considered their greatest lyric poet. He was born of a rich father whose death left the widow and son in poor circumstances, but somehow he managed to go to school and learn the Koran by heart. Very early he started to write and recite poetry. Hafiz taught the Koran in a college that had been founded for his benefit. He lived a rather peaceful life, taking no part in politics and hence not interested or worried about who was in power. All Persians agree that no translation does Hafiz credit, and that if one should really know his worth one must read his poems in the original. No one has done for him what Fitzgerald did for Omar Khayyam. His favorite means of expression was the ghazal, or ode. This is a poem of about sixteen couplets. The first couplet has the double rhyme; but thereafter, the first line of each couplet has no rhyme, and the second line rhymes with the first couplet, making only one rhyme throughout the poem. He wrote about five hundred ghazals besides other lyrics and quatrains. His friends tried to persuade him to put all his poems together as "lustrous pearls on one string, so that they might become a necklace of great price for his contemporaries." Teaching and writing kept him too busy to comply with his friend's wishes, but a pupil collected some of the poems into a volume as the Diwan of Hafiz. Hafiz had a wife and son to whom he was much attached and for whom he wrote some of his finest lines, since both died while he still lived. The following lines were written to his wife:
"Then said my heart, I will sojourn myself in this city which is perfumed by her scent; Her feet were bent upon a longer journey, but I helpless knew it not."
"Open my grave when I am dead, and thou shalt see a cloud of smoke rising from out of it;
 —SEPTEMBER, 1940
SOME PERSIAN POETS YOU WILL LIKE
Then shalt thou know that the fire still burns in my dead heart— Yea, it has set my very winding-sheet alight."
"If the scent of her hair were to blow across my dust When I have been dead a hundred years, My mouldering bones would rise And come dancing out of the tomb."
After the death of his son, he wrote:
"The ease of the eye of mine, that fruit of my heart, ever be his memory! That went himself an easy journey and made my journey hard."
One writer said this of Hafiz: "His verses are full of roses and of musk, the song of nightingales, the light of the warm stars, the shade of cypress and of olives, and all the balmy odors of the mysterious East." Some of the clergy refused to bury him in a Mohammedan cemetery, so it was left to chance; and a verse was chosen at random from his works which read: "Fear not to approach the corpse of Hafiz; Although stained with sin, he will enter heaven." It is needless to say, he was buried in the cemetery. Even to this day people open his books to receive consolation or to get their fortune told.
Jami (1414 to 1492), who died the year Columbus discovered America, is one of the most exquisite of the Persian writers. One writer says of him: "Jami, with his flashes of sunset glow, ushers in the night of decadence in the fifteenth century." His real name was Nuruddin Abdurrahman, but he took the name Jami from the city of Jam, where he dwelt. He started out as an investigator in science and achieved the
603
distinction of Doctor of Musselman Law. He later became a poet, one of the most celebrated of his time. He was not only a polished writer but a prolific one, many of his works being beautifully illuminated. His best work is Yusuf and Zulaikha, a story of Joseph and the wife of Potiphar. The Baharistan or Abode of Spring is similar to Sa'di's Gulistan, being written as a means of instruction for his son. It is divided into eight gardens, each garden dealing with a different subject. The following examples will give some idea of his verse:
"I'll hide myself within my song of love, That I may kiss thee when thou singest it."
And from The God Behind the Veil:
"O fairest rose, with rosebud mouth,' I sighed, 'Why, like coquettes, thy face forever hide?' He smiled, 'Unlike the beauties of the earth, Even when veiled I still may be described.
"Thy face uncovered would be all too bright; Without a veil none could endure the sight. What eye is strong enough to gaze upon The dazzling splendor of the fount of light?
"When the sun's banner blazes in the sky, Its light gives pain by its intensity; But when 'tis tempered by a veil of clouds, That light is soft and pleasant to the eye."
These poets that we have mentioned all lived before the discovery of America. We shall say nothing of the modern poets of Iran, although there are many of them. The writings of some of them may not be
604
translated into English, and many Americans will, therefore, not have an opportunity to become acquainted with them. This is a land of shrines. Some of the most beloved are those erected to the poets. The city of Shiraz has many more visitors every year because Sa'di and Hafiz are buried there, and the road to Meshed is
 
all the more popular because on the way one may see the shrines erected to Ferdowsi and Omar Khayyam. The writings of the poets of Persia have made living in this land more pleasant. I hope that all who read this article may have an opportunity of reading from the gems of Persian poetry so that their lives may be enriched.
Editor's Note: Estelle S. Harris (Mrs. Franklin S. Harris) has spent the past year in Persia in company with her husband, Dr. Harris, who has been investigating all branches of the Department of Agriculture for the Persian Government, making suggestions and recommendations for improvements.