EXCERPTS FROM DISCOURSES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"No earthly argument, no earthly reasoning can open the minds of intelligent beings and show them heavenly things; that can only be done by the Spirit of revelation." (p. 56)
"There is no music in hell, for all good music belongs to heaven." (p. 243)
"I would as soon see a man worshiping a little god made of brass or of wood as to see him worship his property." (p. 485)
"The wicked do not know how to enjoy life, but the closer we live to God the better we know and understand how to enjoy it." (p. 122)
"God has revealed all the truth that is now in the possession of the world, whether it be scientific or religious." (p. 2)
"Of one thing I am sure: God never institutes war; God is not the author of confusion or of war; they are the results of the acts of the children of men. Confusion and war necessarily come as the results of the foolish acts and policy of men; but they do not come because God desires they should come. If the people, generally, would turn to the Lord, there would never be any war." (p. 562)
"I can say with regard to parting with our friends, and going ourselves, that I have been near enough to understand eternity so that I have had to exercise a great deal more faith to desire to live than I ever exercised in my whole life to live. The brightness and glory of the next apartment is inexpressible. It is not encumbered so that when we advance in years we have to be stubbing along and be careful lest we fall down.... But yonder, how different! They move with ease and like lightning.... If we want to behold Jerusalem as it was in the days of the Savior; or if we want to see the Garden of Eden as it was when created, there we are, and we see it as it existed spiritually, for it was created first spiritually and then temporally, and spiritually it still remains." (pp. 582, 583)
"Thrust a man into prison and bind him with chains, and then let him be filled with the comfort and with the glory of eternity, and that prison is a palace to him. Again, let a man be seated upon a throne with power and dominion in this world, ruling his millions and millions and without that peace which flows from the Lord of Hosts... His palace is a prison; his life is a burden to him; he lives in fear, in dread, and in sorrow." (p. 51)
"You cannot give any persons their exaltation unless they know what evil is, what sin, sorrow, and misery are, for no person could comprehend, appreciate and enjoy an exaltation upon any other principle." (pp. 85, 86)
"We can have all the experiences we need, without sinning ourselves; therefore, we will not sin that good may come; we will not transgress the law of God that we may know the opposite." (pp. 118, 119)
"I want to see men and women breathe the Holy Ghost in every breath of their lives, living constantly in the light of God's countenance." (p.