MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home
No. 3
Divisions of Priesthood?The Melchizedek Priesthood (Tuesday, December 3)
"An understanding of the power of the Priesthood and its proper use precludes all feeling of any possible jealousy by either men or women." (Priesthood and Church Government, p. 89)
"THERE are, in the Church, two priesthoods; namely, the Melchizedek and Aaronic.... Why the first is called the Melchizedek Priesthood is because Melchizedek was such a great high priest." (Doc. And Cov. 107:1-2)
"The Melchizedek Priesthood comprehends the Aaronic and is the grand head and holds the highest authority which pertains to the Priesthood." (Teachings of Joseph Smith, p. 167)
Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were ordained to this Priesthood by Peter, James and John, between May 15 and the end of June, 1829, near Harmony, Pennsylvania. The keys and power of the Melchizedek Priesthood were given to Peter, James and John by the Lord Jesus Christ, when he was upon the earth, and they were commissioned by him to restore them to the earth in the dispensation of the fullness of times. (See Gospel Doctrine, p. 242.)
In the Doctrine and Covenants we are told: "The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency, and has power and authority over all the offices in the Church in all ages of the world, to administer in spiritual things." (Doc. And Cov. 107:8)
The offices in this priesthood are elder, seventy, and high priest. In order to understand fully the Priesthood and its offices and power requires study. President Joseph F. Smith said: "The word and the law of God are as important for women who would reach wise conclusions as they are for men; and women should study and consider the problems of this great latter-day work from the standpoint of God's revelations." (Gospel Doctrine, p. 364)
Home Discussion Helps
A woman shares all the blessings that come to her husband through his priesthood. The family relationships are formed for eternity by authority and power of the Melchizedek Priesthood.
Work-and-Business
NUTRITION
Lesson 3
Your Teeth and Your Bones (Tuesday, December 19)
TEETH which last a lifetime and bones which are strong and straight depend on good building materials while they are being formed and throughout the entire life span. The same blood stream feeds all the body cells. If this blood stream carries the essential food nutrients for good nutrition, the teeth and bones will have what they need for building and maintenance. Ninety-five per cent of America's school children have seriously defective teeth. Far too many young adults have lost all of their teeth. Estimates show about 80 per cent of our adult population with bone deformities due to having had rickets in infancy.
THE TEETH. Teeth begin their formation by the third month of pregnancy. All the teeth are under construction before birth. At birth all of the 20 temporary teeth are inside the jaw and their crowns are almost completely calcified. Calcium and phosphorus are the most essential building materials for the teeth. Vitamins A, C, and D provide conditions for the utilization of the calcium and phosphorus. The entire tooth structure, including the inside pulp section, the dentine, the enamel, the cementum which holds the teeth in the jaw, and the gums may be damaged if these vitamins are left out of the diet. A diet which is fully adequate for good general nutrition will insure the teeth the necessary minerals and vitamins. Milk and other dairy products, vegetables of the leafy green, and yellow classes, tomatoes and citrus fruits will provide calcium and phosphorus and the A and C vitamins. Cod liver and other fish liver oils are our only rich sources of the D vitamin. These foods are part of a fully adequate food supply.
CAUSES OF TOOTH DECAY. The two general theories as to causes of tooth decay may be classed as external and internal. The external theory is the oldest and probably is accepted by the largest number of dentists. According to this theory, bacteria act upon carbohydrates, causing fermentation. This produces an acid which dissolves the enamel so that decay into the tooth structure takes place. The internal theory holds that tooth decay comes by way of the blood stream. The tooth, from the outside enamel to the inside pulp, is a living organ and needs a constant supply of material to maintain and repair it. Exponents of both theories agree that a good diet goes a long way in preventing tooth decay. The 1939 American Dental Association convention reported the prevalent American diet, which is high in starch and sugar, is one of the chief causes of tooth decay. A diet high in starch and sugar is usually low in the protective foods.
CARE OF TEETH. Complete removal of all food particles from
642
the teeth and between them with dental floss and tooth brush at least twice daily is important in good tooth care. Examination and cleaning of the teeth by the dentist every six months, together with any needed repair, is essential to tooth protection.
THE BONES. Rickets is the most common cause of bone deformities. This disease comes from poor utilization of calcium and phosphorus in the bone tissue. Vitamin D is essential, along with calcium and phosphorus, in the prevention of rickets. Rickets is most prevalent during the first two years of life. It may develop during any period of rapid bone growth and is quite common during adolescence. Rickets affects the whole body, but its greatest damage comes from the failure of the bones to calcify properly, and results in bone deformities. These deformities may be knock-knees, bowed legs, enlarged ankles and wrists, bulging forehead, chest deformities, narrow space in pelvic and jaw regions. Rickets does damage to the teeth. Teeth are slow to erupt; they frequently are poorly formed, poorly spaced, and poorly calcified. They decay easily.
RECIPES
Cream of Parsley Soup
2 cups thin white sauce ? cup fresh parsley, chopped fine
Add parsley to white sauce just before serving so that parsley is hot but not cooked. This protects against loss of vitamin C in the parsley.
Cheese Souffle (Serves six)
1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon butter ? teaspoon paprika ? cup milk
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940
? cup grated cheese
Make white sauce from these ingredients
3 eggs
Add cheese and slightly beaten egg yolk to white sauce. Beat egg whites until stiff and dry; fold into white sauce mixture. Pour into buttered baking dish, Place dish in pan of hot water and bake in slow oven until a knife inserted comes out dry.
Welsh Rarebit (Serves six)
6 tablespoons butter 6 tablespoons flour 3 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 1 cup grated cheese
Make a white sauce of butter, flour, milk and salt. Beat eggs slightly. Pour milk mixture over eggs. Cook over water until mixture thickens, Add grated cheese and stir until cheese is melted. Serve over spinach, carrots or other vegetables, or on toast, crackers, brown rice, etc.
Carrot Custard (Serves six)
3 eggs 1? cups mashed, cooked carrots 3 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons melted butter
Beat the eggs slightly, add the carrot and other ingredients, pour into an oiled baking dish; place on a rack in a pan of hot water. Have the water as high in the pan surrounding the baking dish or custard cups as the custard is on the inside. This insures a more uniform temperature, which will result in a better quality custard. Bake in a moderate oven (300? F.) for about one hour, or until the custard is set in the center. Serve at once.
Tomato Jelly
2 level tablespoons gelatine ? cup cold water 3? cups canned tomatoes 2 tablespoons onion juice ? bay leaf 1 stalk celery Few grains cayenne 2 tablespoons mild vinegar or 2 tablespoons lemon juice Few grains salt
Soak gelatine in cold water about five
LESSON DEPARTMENT
minutes. Mix remaining ingredients, except vinegar; bring to boiling point and let boil 10 minutes. Add vinegar and soaked gelatine. When gelatine is dissolved, strain, turn into wet molds and chill. Remove from molds to bed of shredded cabbage. Use dressing as desired. Shredded vegetables may be molded with the jelly.
643
References
The Foundations of Nutrition, Rose. (See index for references to teeth and bones.) "Human Nutrition", U. S. D. A. Year Book, chapters on minerals and vitamins. "Your Child's Teeth", Children's Bureau Folder No. 12, U. S. Department of Labor, Washington, D. C.