The Sunny Side of the Hill
Lella Marler Hoggan
No. 4
Under Skies of Blue
WE all remember the story, "The Old Man of The Sea." We recall how Sinbad the Sailor carried this old man safely across a turbulent stream; and then how the old fellow continued to cling to the sailor's neck, refusing to walk upon his own feet, until Sinbad, becoming jaded, footsore and weary, finally resorted to caprice in order to rid himself of his ungrateful burden. How many of us today are stumbling along very much like that long-ago traveler, burdened with numberless cares and worthless possessions that might just as well be dropped from our shoulders? Through the years we gather about us unnecessary belongings. We permit our lives to become crowded with accumulations that have no permanent value. We fill our hands with dead wood that will never know a future blossoming. We become slaves to our things, our habits, our fears. We are cheating ourselves when we acquire in youth habits that will betray us later in life. We are deserting our ideals when we follow the crowd, letting today's convenience outweigh tomorrow's development. If we drift with the throng, permitting ourselves to be burdened with all of the non-essentials that chance to roll across our path, we shall one day awaken to the fact that many of the things we had hoped to achieve are not even begun. Life catches up with us and lays a hand on our shoulder. "Do you remember this unfulfilled dream, and that one?" she asks. "Have you forgotten how we planned thus and so?" Yes, in the frenzied onrush of life we had forgotten. A great emptiness enters our heart. It is a lonely moment when we come to realize that we have disappointed ourselves. But it need not be a hopeless moment. For tomorrow holds in her magic hand new dreams and bright visions waiting to be fulfilled. Nature is always ready to let us try again, if we are really in earnest. She covers our past errors with a cloak of forgetfulness so that we may start afresh.
In a measure, our possessions are an index to our lives. We no sooner learn the meaning of mine and thine than we begin to collect personal belongings. Unless we use discretion, our accumulations soon become burdensome. And if we do not early acquire the art of discarding, we fill our lives with gaudy trifles to the exclusion of genuine values. As we grow in judgment, we learn to discriminate between this and that, to select and to decide what we shall leave and what we shall take. We search for permanent val-
THE SUNNY SIDE OF THE HILL
ues, trying to lay hold on the things that will satisfy the soul. "Is there not some key," we ask ourselves, "by which we may be guided?" And out of the wisdom of experience, we gather here a thought and there a
615
suggestion that helps us to choose more prudently. Some of these findings are: Life here and now is of little worth to us unless we can have health and strength and a keen sense of appreciation. The promotion of intellectual growth and spiritual development brings its reward. Experience that leaves us with satisfied hearts and happy memories is of real worth. And the good which we can carry with us through the ages has supreme value. Too often, however, we permit life to become so congested with unimportant things that we fail to recognize real values. When you arise some morning with your hearts so full of distractions and forebodings that the tension is fairly smothering you, that is the very day you should pause long enough to wash the slate clean and to start over again. Put a cold lunch on the table for the family and go out alone to commune with life. When you pass the last fence, as you approach the mountains or the lake or whatever outpost it may be, hang your last worry on that fence and close your mind against everything of a disturbing nature. Maybe if you offer a little silent prayer or sing a verse of some happy melody or repeat the Twenty-third Psalm, it will put you in harmony with the rhythm about you, the gentle rustle of leaves, the cadence of rippling water, the clear call of a bird's note. In the solitude of the mountains or the wooded hills you forget your trivial cares. Truth sits with you beside the lilting stream and counsels with you in wisdom's ways. The soft wind brings fragrance of pines and roses. Sorrow and foreboding and
616
unrest seem to fall away. You view life with a clearer vision, a surer purpose, a deeper understanding. Alone with nature you have found communion with the Most High. You go back to your home renewed in strength and fortified against every emergency. Let us spend more time under the blue skies. Let us watch for the colors in the mountain shadows and in the shifting clouds at dawn. Let us learn to look long and lovingly at the out-of-doors. Also, let us watch with seeing eyes for hidden spiritual beauty. That old lady next door, in her long dress and shoulder shawl, perhaps has a past filled with romance. Why not spend an hour with her sometime? And that war veteran across the street, who walks with a limp, has seen life in its most tragic reality. Why not talk with him? Looking at trouble sympathetically reveals a new world to us. Sharing the sorrow of others reduces our own grief and helps us to discriminate between fleeting and eternal values. Careful planning yields leisure hours, and into these we may crowd all of heaven we know how to accept. But so long as we permit ourselves to go on lugging a burden of care about we cannot hope to find courage or stamina with which to meet life heroically, Why should we cling so tenaciously to that which brings only defeat? Why not shed it forthwith? Remember, the heart has its habits as well as the mind. If we encourage Mirth to sing a little song of joy
 
under our window each day, we shall come to expect the happy melody and the peaceful comfort that it brings. And if we postpone our happiness too long, we may be surprised to find that we have lost the art of being glad. Of course, there are many distractions to frustrate even our wisest plans. Duty raps at our door before we are awake in the morning. Love calls us to her bidding with imperative haste. Sorrow enters unannounced. These high loyalties we would not evade. To abandon them would bring us not release, but a deep loss. They are the rich, enduring experiences of life. Too often we neglect these greater values because of preoccupation with less important ones. We enslave ourselves with a load of non-essentials that demand more time than is recorded on the calendar. And nothing detracts from our efficiency so much as a burden of unfinished things. We shackle ourselves by our own thinking. We build up a wall of obligations that holds us to a beaten course within its bounds. Sometimes we fail to realize that we are the sole guard at the gates, and that we carry the key in our own pocket. Why not walk out on ourselves? We have as much freedom as we are brave enough to use. Faith is waiting to show us the way out. She will help us to discard our excess baggage and to reroute our course of life to a happier landing.