MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Ready For Rehearsal?
IF you are to be the conductor of a singing group this year, you have problems in common with many others, and we may profitably discuss some of them together. Our first consideration might well be a few qualifications that are desirable, as well as ways in which we may increase our ability to fill this position satisfactorily.
Being a chorister presupposes musical knowledge, but with this must go eagerness and ambition that find ways for constant improvement. By being alert and a good listener, one may add much to his knowledge, without any financial obligation. Conducting privately before a mirror may prove helpful; also, beating time to the radio or phonograph may improve technique. Enthusiasm, generous effort, a love for song that is contagious, and a good sense of humor will do much to bring success.
Plan rehearsals well in advance so that definite goals may be reached. Be entirely familiar with compositions to be practiced?as complete numbers and with each separate part. Anticipate difficult passages and be prepared to handle them. Present the message of the song before practicing it; for, "words are jewels made to shine and sparkle through musical tones that enhance their beauty and meaning." Information concerning the composer adds interest.
Be sure the room is well lighted and ventilated. Be business-like, starting on time, so that members will feel that their time and efforts are not wasted. Because people learn by doing, do a great deal of singing and not much talking; however, a period for relaxation is necessary, and announcements could be made then. Know your singers and make the goal within their possibilities, so they may have the satisfaction of success.
There is a wide choice of material in The Relief Society Song Book that can be used by all. To sing good hymns well is more creditable than to give a poor rendition of an anthem. There is joy in singing familiar songs; however, strive always to enlarge and improve repertoires, keeping standards high, as in the past. Build up to the difficult. When beginning the study of new music, directors differ in methods of procedure, but the following usually brings good results: "Sing it through with the accompaniment, sink or swim fashion, getting a glimpse of the piece as a whole. Then, take it in sections and concentrate on one thing at a time."
For solo work, when possible, give different members the benefit of experience. The singing of the chorus is "good or bad, vital or dull, according to the guiding influence of the director." The stronger she feels the message of the music, the greater the force with which the chorus conveys it to the congregation. In this work, let us remember that we are working with human beings subject to changing conditions and emotions, as we ourselves are. Members come to rehearsal in varying moods; whatever their moods may be, it is within the power of the conductor to clear the atmosphere and send singers away feeling better than when they came. So let us be ready for rehearsals.