Notes FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. Mlessa ges i rom Netherlands Mission FRANKLIN J. MURDOCK, Church mission secretary and former president of the Netherlands Mission, sent the following report, under date of June 28, 1940, to the General Board: "I had the pleasure yesterday of reading a letter direct from the little war-torn country of Holland. It is the first direct information which we have received relative to conditions there since the invasion of that little country by Germany. The letter was written by Sister Zippro, who is president of the Relief Society. "Sister Zippro is a very intelligent and courageous lady, and we are thankful that the work of the Relief Society is in her hands. She is living in Amsterdam, and just as soon as the two armies had concluded to cease firing, she took her bicycle and bicycled from Amsterdam to Rotterdam, a distance of sixty miles. Naturally, the trains were disrupted and there were no buses running, and she had to depend upon her faithful bicycle to carry her on this journey. It took nine hours to make the trip from Amsterdam to Rotterdam, and the sights which she saw along the way, as she stated, could not be described adequately by her pen. "The terrible destruction of life and property was abundantly exhibited on every hand. She says she has the Missions never seen so many men marching, so many tanks, airplanes, and tractors, which caused a tremendous destruction of life. She left her little family in Amsterdam with her husband and felt the urge to go to Rotterdam to see if there were some unfortunate members whom she could help. This desire seems to me to be the characteristic of a true and noble woman, willing to face the hazards of an invading army in order that the members of our Church might receive some assistance from the Relief Society. She found many families in Rotterdam who had had their homes, furniture, and all earthly belongings completely destroyed and had gone to live with other members temporarily. The old hall in Rotterdam had been completely destroyed, but the new chapel overmass was still intact, and the members were planning to hold Sunday School there. "She visited the members, found out their needs, and immediately set about to raise a collection throughout the mission to care for the unfortunate members who suffered most through the invasion. She is also planning to visit the other members in all branches of the mission and keep the work of the Relief Society moving along. We can all be thankful that we have such a lady as Sister Zippro in the mission in charge NOTES FROM THE FIELD of the Relief Society work, and I am sure that she will measure up to every responsibility which comes to her. Her example of bravery and devotion to a cause which is dear to her heart I feel is worthy of commendation, and I thought you would be interested in having this direct word which has just come. "We have started a collection here among all the Dutch people and have already collected nearly $400, which will be sent as soon as assurance is given that it will reach there and will be placed in the hands of those for whom it is intended." New Zealand Mission ELVA T. COWLEY, supervisor of women's auxiliary organizations in the New Zealand Mission, sent an interesting report of Relief Society activities, dated April 25, 1940, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "From March 22 to 25, 1940, the Church held its annual conference, or Hui Tau, as it is known among the Maori race, at Nuhaka, Hawkes Bay District, which is centrally located on the North Island. The Relief Society was conspicuous for the part it played in this gathering. We held our officers'-and-teachers' meeting at 8:00 a. M. Sunday morning; forty-nine branches were represented with about 200 women present, "Women came from far-distant places with their husbands and babies. Some of them rode over 450 miles in open trucks and buses up hill and down dale and around numerous curves, taking nineteen hours for the journey. On arrival, they were directed to a large tent or matquee in. Which had been spread new- 627 mown hay. Here they selected a place for their families and spread their blankets. This was their sleeping apartment for the duration of the conference. "In the officers' - and - teachers' meeting, the sisters received instructions for furthering the work in their branches for the coming year, and a vital message on health and cleanliness was given. The spirit of the Lord prevailed in abundance, and at the conclusion of the meeting many expressed the opinion that it was the best meeting of its kind they had attended. "Sunday night at 7:00 p. M. In the large Church hall, the Society, under my direction, presented a pageant called, "The Finding of Moses,' With the lighting, costuming, and lovely music from the Singing Mothers, it was acclaimed by all to be very beautiful. One of the Saints who is a splendid musician had previously mimeographed copies of the music for the pageant, which had been sent to the different branches to be learned. When the time came for their combined appearance, the women were able to blend their voices in beautiful harmony. "On the center of the marae (grounds) was a large marquee for the display of the handwork made throughout the year, at the request of the mission board. Many beautiful applique and patchwork quilts were exhibited, and also made-over clothing for boys and girls. Some of the older Maori sisters whose fingers were not accustomed to pakeha (European) sewing entered their Maori kits, taniko belts, baskets, and mats. These were sold and the money donated to the general fund. Prizes were awarded to MAORI MAT (Exhibited at recent Hui Tau, New Zealand Mission; now on display in Church Museum Building, Temple Square, Salt Lake City) branches and individuals who did the finest work. "Probably the most important work of the conference was done by the sisters of the Mahia District. These women undertook the great task of preparing food for 1500 people three times a day. The organization and dispatch with which this work was accomplished was remarkable. I am sure you would marvel that such delicacies as jello, fruit salad, cakes, pies, cookies, and pickles of several varieties, could be served to such a crowd. "Since the Hui Tau, the sisters have already started to write for quilt patterns and suggestions for next year's project, and some of the quilts have been started. One sister was so thrilled with the knowledge she gained from helping make a quilt that she intends to make one for herself. She said it was the first quilting she had ever done. Another branch, which had worked under great difficulty, was the first to sell its quilt at the Hui Tau; this made the sisters very happy.
"The Relief Society Magazine is being appreciated by these women more and more. We are gradually convincing them of the wonderful help it can give them. In one branch, I was told they have an evening study class with their husbands and use the Magazine for their study material. One sister told me that
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
her husband, who is branch president, uses the Magazine for much of his preaching material. One of the husbands, who is a music director, gets many valuable helps from the music department.
"Just now the feeling of patriotism is strong, and the sisters are offering their services, under the name of Relief Society, to help in any way they can. I have suggested that they use part of their Work-and-Business Day and some of their evenings sewing for the soldiers. They are all enthusiastic, and I am sure that the country of New Zealand will know that there is a charitable organization in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that responds to every call, no matter what creed or color, where human life is concerned."
Samples of hand-made articles exhibited at the recent Hui Tau are
629
on display in the Church Museum Building, Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah: four types of baskets, a small Maori mat, and a taniko. The picture of these accompany this article. The coarse basket is the kind used to carry kumeras and potatoes. Flax grows in abundance in New Zealand. The women prepare it themselves and make their own dyes out of clay and barks?a very long and tedious process. They make very beautiful mats, which are spread on the floor to sleep on. The taniko work is used for belts, head bands, purses, and for decorating costumes. Sister Cowley is to be commended for her zeal in preserving the art crafts of the Maori sisters and at the same time training the women in the European skills. Sister Cowley says, "I am very pleased with the work of the women.
MAORI BASKETS AND TANIKO BELT (Now on display in Church Museum Building, Temple Square, Salt Lake City)
FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY IN JAPANESE MISSION, HAWAII (Seated, third from left, is Hazel M. Robertson, mission Relief Society president)
They are not as fortunate as the women in Zion, who have everything to work with and plenty of skilled instructors, but they are trying hard and respond willingly to requests made of them."
Japanese Mission
HAZEL M. ROBERTSON, Relief Society president of the Japanese Mission, sent the accompanying picture of the newly organized Relief Society in this mission. She wrote on July 27, 1940, as follows:
"I am very happy to report that we now have a Relief Society in the Japanese Mission with a membership of eighteen women. As you perhaps know, the Japanese Mission in the Hawaiian Islands was organized only three and one-half years ago, and all our efforts were turned first to building fine Sunday Schools, Primaries, and M. I. A. Organizations, in order to touch the parents through the children. Our Relief Society has been last but not least in our hearts, as we realize what it will mean in the Japanese home.
"Our mission is now organized on four of the islands, and we hope to soon have a Relief Society on each. We are carrying out the lessons as outlined and find them interesting. Especially are the members interested in the theology, handicraft, and lessons on the home and children.
"The Japanese women are very devoted to their homes and families, and the beautiful lessons outlined by the General Board will help them to carry out their ideals in the home."
Northwestern States Mission (Portland, Oregon)
ANN PARKINSON NIBLEY, president of Relief Society in the Northwestern States Mission, wrote on March 17, 1940, a report of progress of Relief Society work in the Northwest, from which the following excerpts are quoted:
"It has been my pleasure to visit many branch organizations and to
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
hold meetings with all six Relief Society district boards the last few months. I find the branch members anxious to cooperate in every way, and they are doing splendid work. They are holding regular board meetings, traveling many miles to visit branch organizations, holding conferences, and union meetings. These district boards are most assuredly strengthening the branch organizations, which now number sixty-two, with a Relief Society membership of over 1300. Some forty-two of these Societies have been organized within the last two and one-half years.
"Two hundred of our members were gained in last year's membership drive, and 311 were gained in this year's drive, making our total over 1300 members, the same number as were in our mission before Portland and Seattle Stakes were organized from parts of the mission.
"We are directly supervising fifteen Societies, including Anchorage and Fairbanks in Alaska. These organizations are too far removed from district centers to attend union meetings or conferences or to be visited by board members. Our branch officers seem very loyal and are cooperating and supporting the district board members, many of these sisters traveling as far as 150 miles or more each way to attend conferences and union meetings.
"In our mission Magazine drive, more of our branches went over the top this year than in any previous year, six Societies gaining from 108 percent to 200 percent. We also had a mission essay contest this year in connection with the membership drive which met with splendid success. Awards were given to the sisters sending in the two best essays,
631
and to membership coordinators and Magazine representatives gaining special recognition in their departments."
Following are interesting items taken from a letter to Sister Nibley from May Oldroyd, Relief Society president of Fairbanks, Alaska:
"I think you will be interested to learn that we have increased our membership from five to eleven members. We hold our meetings every Tuesday afternoon. Four of us live from five to seven miles from Fairbanks, so it is always dark when we return from our meetings, our daylight hours during November, December and January being from three to five hours long. Because of having so few members and being so far apart, we thought best to take only two divisions of the work outlined. We chose theology and literature lessons with a roll-call report of the reading of other outlined lessons, and an occasional work-and-business meeting. This seems very satisfactory, and it is seldom we have a member absent. Our class leaders are efficient, and we have some very interesting meetings.
"Our Church has been asked to broadcast every fifth Sunday over radio station KFAR for a half hour religious service. It is both a thrill and an opportunity for us. Our branch has conducted two successful programs, and we hope to be able to continue these broadcasts.
"It is surprising how many people are becoming interested in our religion. It seems hardly possible that less than two years ago we were only three small families not even organized into a branch. Now we have from thirty to forty persons attending Sunday School each Sunday.
632
"The branch has rented a hall in which we hold Sunday School, but our Relief Society is not included in this, so we must meet with any lady who will open her home to us. This is a disadvantage, as we do not feel at liberty to advertise and invite others to meet with us in private homes, and eleven or twelve women are all one can entertain in most Alaskan living rooms. We feel like singing continually 'give us room that we may dwell.'"
North Central States Mission (Minneapolis, Minn.)
ALMA M. BROADBENT, Relief Society president of North Central States Mission, submitted the following report:
"For the first time in the history of our mission, we were honored with a visit from one of the General Presidents of the Relief Society, President Amy Brown Lyman.
"On June 18, a reception and luncheon were given in her honor in the Minneapolis chapel, at which members of the local Relief Societies of St. Paul, Minneapolis, Brainerd, Princeton, and Monticello had the privilege of greeting her personally. Flowers in blue and gold (our Relief Society colors) were used as decorations. At the luncheon which followed the reception, the place cards were small envelopes containing a picture of President Lyman. A feature of the luncheon was 'A Hundred Thousand Strong', rendered as a trumpet solo by Wilma Thorup. The program which followed included a musical number by members of the St. Paul Singing Mothers, and a number by the Minneapolis Singing Mothers. Short reports were given by the various Relief Society presi-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940
dents, after which Sister Lyman gave an inspiring address. She spoke appreciatively of the work done in the missions, encouraging the sisters in their work and emphasizing the importance of spirituality, kindness, consideration, and loyalty to each other. She encouraged them to live close to our Heavenly Father and to do their best; in her very words, 'Give the best that is in you. Be the best of whatever you are.' As a closing number, the song, 'A Hundred Thousand Strong', was sung by the entire group.
"Elder Richard R. Lyman, of the Council of the Twelve, and President Amy Brown Lyman also attended inspiring conferences at Duluth, Minnesota, and at Winnipeg, Canada. Following the meeting at Duluth, a dinner was served by the Relief Society members for Elder and Sister Lyman, President and Sister Broadbent, for the mission secretary, W. Ashby Robison, and the missionaries."
Argentine Mission
LORRAINE S. WILLIAMS, president of Relief Society in the Argentine Mission, wrote on June 14, 1940, of activities in this mission as follows:
"Our sisters had no opportunity to study music before being contacted by the elders. But in spite of this, we organized a group of Singing Mothers who furnished the music for our two semi-annual conferences in 1939; they had joy in singing.
"We held a Mothers' and Daughters' banquet the 18th of November, at which there were 127 mothers and daughters in attendance. The food was prepared by the mothers, the tables and decorations by the daugh-
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
ters. The elders served the banquet so that every sister could be seated. A program and toasts were given during the meal.
"All of our Relief Societies hold branch conferences, with the presidents conducting. The Rosario Branch compiled and published a cook book and are selling it throughout the mission. It was an interesting project as well as a means of adding to their funds.
"We feel that the Relief Society organization is truly a blessing to the women of the Argentine. It is a
633
source of development and enrichment of life to them.
"I should like to express my own appreciation for the Magazine. It is truly a friend and a guiding hand always.
"We are trying to store food and clothing for future use. Prices are raising every day, and most of our Saints have but a meager living at best. There are no adequate facilities for bottling or canning foods. These people eat entirely different from us; spaghetti, macaroni, meat, yerba mate and bread comprise the largest part of their diet."