The Blessing of Constitutional Government
Elder Don B. Colton
AMERICAN people live under the most complex of all forms of government; that is, a federal republic. We are, at once, citizens of a sovereign nation and also of a sovereign state. One English political scientist has said, "There are two loyalties, two patriotisms. There are two governments covering the same ground, commanding with equally direct authority the obedience of the same citizen." Complicated as it seems, it may be simple if studied and understood. As each "Constitution Day" draws near, we should examine carefully the basic law under which we live. I shall consider in this article more particularly some phases of the Federal Constitution. England has, and France also until recently, a simple non-federal or centralized government. "The will of the British Parliament is the supreme law of the kingdom." To understand fully our complex federal government, one must know how the early English colonies developed into American states, and how they were finally welded into a union. A separate charter or grant was given to each of the thirteen colonies settled along the Atlantic seaboard from Canada to Florida. Sometimes the grant was to an individual, sometimes to a company, and again, to a group of people. The governments varied greatly. Not all of the governors were appointed by the Crown. A few of the colonies were almost entirely self-governed. The Declaration of Independence declared against the mother country and affirmed that, "these united colonies are and of right ought to be free and independent states." The colonies soon learned, however, that they were too weak to stand alone and that the situation demanded union. The states were extremely jealous of their sovereignty. Their problem was to maintain their independence and yet acquire strength by unity. They tried first a government under the Articles of Confederation, but it was entirely inadequate. The Constitution was finally adopted and welded the states into a nation in 1789. It must always be borne in mind that the state was the original sovereign and was independent. The work of forming a union was the surrender voluntarily of powers which had been exercised by a state completely sovereign within itself. Therefore, the federal government was one of delegated authority. The Constitution provided but one way by which further powers could be delegated to the federal government —by amendment ratified by the people of the several states. It must be remembered that at the beginning of the trouble with Great Britain there was no intention of breaking away entirely. They did not revolt against law but against the tyranny of being deprived of the blessings guaranteed them by law. Their forefathers had compelled King John at Runnymede to grant
FOUR SHEETS OF SHEEPSKIN PARCHMENT containing the Supreme Law of the Land, repose in the glass case in the Library of Congress. Above, the Constitution of the United States.
586
them certain fundamental rights embodied in the Magna Charta. These guarantees were being violated by a tyrant who had arrogated, gradually, powers unto himself. The colonies were contending for rights under English law, either written or under the Common Law. They petitioned many times for redress, but the petitions were scornfully rejected. The representatives of the people waited until all hope of peace was gone. The people demanded redress. The Congress was compelled to act. It has been rightfully said, "The Declaration of Independence contains the ideal of American liberty and the conception of the origin and purpose of human government. The Constitution sets up the machinery by which these ideals are to be attained." The central government—if such it may be called—set up by the colonies was a weak one. In the Congress, each colony had but one vote, irrespective of its size. The government was a mere league where mutual problems could be considered, but with little or no power to enforce its decrees. The states were drifting apart; jealousies arose between them, and chaos seemed inevitable.
IT was not an easy thing to "ordain and establish" the Constitution of the United States. It was the work of many months. Careful and, in many instances, prayerful men worked long and earnestly in drawing up that great document. It required great skill and inspiration to prepare it and secure its ratification. It was one of the world's great accomplishments. The Constitutional Convention, which assembled in May, 1787, de-
 
liberated four months. On September 17, 1787, the document was completed and signed by delegates from twelve states. Rhode Island did not participate in the convention. We are all familiar with Joseph Smith's statement: "The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun." The system of checks and balances set up in the Constitution is the only thing which saved it. It never would have been ratified had there not been three independent, equal, coordinate branches of government. It was especially designed so that the Executive Department should not arrogate to itself powers never intended to be given. Until we study recent developments in Europe, we cannot appreciate the inspiration and foresight back of the provisions calling for checks and balances. Lack of security and economic problems troubled the framers of the Constitution and, indeed, the people themselves, just as they have worried the peoples of Europe during the last two decades. It will not be denied that the autocrats now ruling most of Europe arose to power through promises of economic security. Hungry people will do almost anything for food. Men came with alluring promises and asked for temporary power. The result has been that the people have surrendered all that heroes have fought and died for during the last thousand years. Liberty of speech, freedom of the press, and even the
THE BLESSING OF CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT
right to worship God have gone from those lands. A few men have turned back the pages of history five hundred years simply for the hideous monster of tyranny and oppression to raise its awful head. Shall the American people ever be caught off guard and allow the same conditions to be brought about here? The matter of concentrating power in one man has always been displeasing to the Lord because of the temptation to abuse that power. Read I Samuel, Chapter 8, and you will find the danger of concentrated power clearly pointed out. I quote only a few verses: "And said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord. And the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee. Now, therefore, hearken unto their voice: howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. And the Lord said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city." Again, the Lord speaking to the Nephites said: "Now I say unto you, that because all men are not just it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over you. For behold, how much iniquity doth one wicked king cause to be committed, yea,
587
and what great destruction!" (Book of Mormon, Mosiah 29:16-17) Nor is the danger alone in concentrating power in the Executive. Congress has frequently passed laws which have violated the "inalienable rights" mentioned in the Declaration of Independence and set forth in the first ten amendments to the Constitution. Congress has tried to provide a religious test for holding office; it has attempted to deprive persons accused of crime of the sacred right of trial by jury, and has attempted to deprive citizens of property without just compensation. Many other instances of unconstitutional laws could be cited. The great bulwark of our liberty in times past has been our Supreme Court. It has been necessary, also, at times, through the demands of the people, to check the Courts. Our safety lies in keeping, so far as possible, the powers of government in the hands of thoughtful people. I can do no better than quote from a statement issued by the Committee on American Citizenship of the American Bar Association: "Whether you have your citizenship like St. Paul, by right of birth, or acquire it by naturalization, it is not sufficient that you merely obey the law and commit no offense against it. That is important, but the franchise, the right to vote, is the most sacred of all privileges under our Constitution; it is the right protective of all others; armed with it you safeguard all others, because by your vote you freely choose those who rule you and by delegation make your own laws. If you fail to exercise this privilege, you are a recreant to your citizenship. Forty years ago four-fifths of all the voters went to the polls; in 1924 less than one-half of them, forty-nine per cent, exercised their right to vote. As a result, every office holder is chosen by a minority of the voters; in some states as low as five per cent of all the voters. In the cities the 'better element,' as it calls itself, stays away from the polls, and then rails bitterly at the result. You have no right to criticise your Government or its Agents unless you take your part in choosing them. This is the most sacred duty of citizenship."
THE brilliant Henry W. Grady once said, "The man who kindles the fire on the hearth-stone of an honest and righteous home, burns the best incense to liberty. He does not love mankind less who loves his neighbor more. Exalt the citizen. As the state is the unit of Government, he is the unit of the state. Teach him that his home is his castle, and his sovereignty rests beneath his hat. Make him self-respecting, self-reliant and responsible. Let him lean on the state for nothing that his own arm can do, and on the Government for nothing that his state can do. Let him cultivate independence to the point of sacrifice, and learn that humble things with unbartered liberty are better than splendors bought with its price." The issues of the cruel and terrible wars now being fought with such ferocity are two-fold: shall the people be subject to a one-man government, or shall the sacred rights of free people be kept in the hands of thoughtful and, I hope, prayerful citizens? Which do we prefer, for instance, the peaceful judgment of the Supreme Court, civil war, or possible dissolution of the Union? The answer lies with the people. The experience of the ages clearly points to one course as the only safe one. Let there be written laws, understood and obeyed by an enlightened electorate, and men chosen who will execute those laws. The supreme law, the Constitution, carefully studied, understood and obeyed, leads to safety, happiness and prosperity. Let us have a government of laws—not of men. Let this, the American continent, be an ensign to all the world. The people are not going to have one-man rule even though such a government for the time being may be more efficient. In these days of strife and turmoil, let us hope that every citizen will rededicate himself to the task of securing honest and efficient government, always remembering that "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty." Let us know the basic law of the land. Let September 17 take on a new meaning, that liberty and freedom shall have a new birth. The government given us on that day in 1787 shall be ours forever if we are worthy to possess it in righteousness.