THIS YEAR IT'S THE MIGHT Straight and narrow SILHOUETTE Emily Smith Stewart FALL... Fine Fashions... Furs... And Fun! Maybe Fun? Maybe Work? It all depends on the amount of time you yielded to temptation and comfort and spurned your "foundation" during the steaming go days at go. During your weaker moments you probably used the aged bromide argument that "there's no one home but the children" and "no one will see me." Well, if you did, you are apt to be the owner of a figure greatly in need of control. If such is the case, be honest with yourself and your family. Admit your guilt, dig down deep into your hoarded budget and pry loose enough to buy the best corset you can find—and don't stint. Your foundation is the most important item in your wardrobe. Chalk the expense up to hot weather or weak will, just whichever you choose; but start the business of being well dressed from the foundation out. Your new corset should give you that longer, leaner look; a longer torso; give you that "pulled taffy" appearance; make your midriff slender and tapering. Being well dressed is an art; the acquiring of a flattering fashion-right wardrobe is an accomplishment. Haphazard dressing is costly and unattractive. Fashion is elusive. Your style is the dramatization of your own fine personality. Oh, Lovely Lady, be sure you amplify your own charm, your own good points, and be yourself. Choose from Fashion's gorgeous offerings a basic wardrobe to suit your needs. Decide on the type of clothes suited to your life. Select a basic color and build around that theme. A good costume—coat, suit or dress— should render valuable service for two seasons and, if well chosen, can be converted into many different costumes with simple changes of hat and access. This fall the narrow silhouette is back of it all. Any change you will see this season is derived from the movement to make the skirts narrewer. No one can dogmatically say that the narrow silhouette alone is going to control the situation, but it is asserted that it is a major influence in bringing forth new aspects of style types. The lay-out of fashion factors that are producing these types are apparent in the fall collections. Factors that produce width above the waist emphasize the narrowing skirt. Fashion inspiration must come from some definite source: The desire to re-create pictures of past periods—the mode of living, the psychology of the people — in terms of the contemporary scene. During 1914 to 1920, dresses literally hung on the figure. Little attention was paid to suitability or becomingness. Long, straight lines prevailed; skirts were straight with some fullness. Then pleats were introduced. In 1924 and 1926, shoulders were uncomfortably narrow, looked pinched and skimpy. Waist lines were still long and skirts quite full. In 1927, skirts dropped nearly to the ankle. In 1930, skirts rose a few inches, ending just below the calf. Dresses became softer, and sleeves carried the trimming. From 1930 to 1937, the change was gradual. Fashions became more sensible and wearable and, most important of all, more becoming to most women. The fall of 1939 staged a fashion revolution. Bustle backs made headlines and left just as quickly. Rounded hips and defined bust lines brought back the "hour glass" figure of an outmoded era. All this has been discarded. Now, fashion is concentrating on beauty and natural lines, producing a subtle sophistication which so aptly expresses the spirit of American women of this day and age. So today the hard impertinence of chic is out. You are to be charming and simply gowned. How wisely and how well depends on your skill in planning a wardrobe to flatter both your personality and ability. If a coat is to be the major item in your new wardrobe, decide if it is to be sport, untrimmed, casual, dress, fur-trimmed or fur. Mentally picture it with 

 —SEPTEMBER, 1940

 the clothes you have ready for fall, and be sure its style and color will be fashion right and service right. Your hat, shoes, bag and gloves must match in color exactly; if your coat is black, your shoes, gloves, hat, and bag should also be black to be basically correct. If good fortune can permit you extra accessories, pick up the color of your dress in your gloves, bag or hat. To make one basic wardrobe serve as a background for many variations is a clever trick to have Dame Fashion perform for the talented and gifted woman. If a dress is to be your most important new acquisition, ponder well the type it should be—meditate on your social and business program, and plan to make your new dress fit your needs. Choose one that you can literally perform Alladin tricks with—one that in a twinkling of an eye will step from the purely business to the utterly feminine. Pack your wardrobe pouch with fashion wiles—a new glamour pin, a set of clips, a necklace, matching earrings and bracelet; costume rings are very new and smart. At a moment's notice be ready to awe your adoring family or astound your devoted husband with the magnitude of your fashion artifices. Black is top rating the color family for fall. There is renewed: interest in brown. The brown family is scheduled as second only to black for town coats and suits, silk dresses, millinery and shoes. Wool dresses, sports coats and suits are all expected to reflect the brown influence. The nutria shade, in particular, is indicated. A committee of 16 members of the Associated Merchandising Corporation places black first for formal coats and suits, estimating that 75 per cent of early fall clothes will be in black. Browns, represented by mink and nutria shades, rank second and are followed by wine, two greens and blue. For casual coats and suits — a grouping which includes reefer types —black is expected to account for 40 per cent of early designing appearances. Brown, Indian earth, wine red, two greens, and yarn-dye grey follow in the order mentioned. J}_—_ For sports coats and suits, naturals, beiges and covert tans are ranked first. The brown to Indian-earth STRAIGHT AND NARROW 597 

 —SEPTEMBER, 1940

 range comes next, followed by blues, greens, wines and reds, black-and-whites and greys. 'T'weeds, a fashion committee comments, will often be multicolored in plaids or stripes, running into colors similar to those indicated on the card for fleeces and monotones. In dress costumes, the committee places brown first, with blue-black green, and wine following. A note on the card indicates that wine is for better costumes only. For wool dresses, blue is placed first and is represented by a soldierblue shade and teal. Next come tan and chicory brown, olive green and a bright green, black, grey, bright red, rose, and a grape tone. In a note, the fashion committee points out that black wool dresses, although high style, will be seen more than they have been in previous seasons, especially in jerseys. Millinery colors are numerous on the 1940 fashion program, in spite of the fact that black is expected to account for 75 per cent of early selections. Colors are expected to come up in importance as the season progresses. Basic for millinery are black, chicory brown, bright wine, soldier blue, promenade green, wine, and grey. The high fashion shades include berry red, Indian Simplicity Pattern earth, gold, khaki green, beige, teal blue, | McCall Pattern No. 3412, and bright red. No. 3818, See By way of suggestion, if you personalize your own clothes by self-creation, two patterns are suggested that may be helpful in making the important decision of what to wear. Leather colors chosen by the style-conscious group for shoes, handbags and gloves emphasize the importance of black suede, with or without colored trims. After black, only two basic colors are shown—brown and wine. Best fashion authorities, commenting on color correlation of costumes and accessories, point out two major trends: One toward subtle harmonies and monotone costumes, and another toward either subtle or sharp contrasts in ensembles. The "match two" tule prevails for fashion coordination —shoes and bags, gloves and shoes, etc. If you are still "summery" in your mood, you will create or buy shortish sleeves; if you feel "forward-looking," you will have long ones. In any event, don't let the first cool days catch you "off-base"; make the transition from summer to autumn well groomed with confidence and charm.