Mission Lesson LATTER-DAY SAINT CHURCH HISTORY (To be used by missions in lieu of Literature, if so desired ) Lesson 12 The Martyrdom of Joseph Smith |(Tuesday, December 17) IN the Doctrine and Covenants is this very striking statement, put there after the death of the Prophet: "Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and a name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his works with his own blood." It is too bad that a man who brought happiness and salvation to hundreds of thousands of men and women, and injury to no one, should have been killed by a mob of angry men. How was it that feelings of bitterness and hate were so aroused against him? OU may remember the reception which the Saints received when they first entered Illinois. There were two reasons for this reception: One was that the hearts of the people were touched at the plight of the Mormons; the other was that the state was in need of taxpayers. In spite of their unhappy lot in Missouri, the Saints had a reputation for industry. The newcomers would, therefore, share the increasing burden of public debt. The Mormon people did not waste any time in going to work. Almost overnight, they created a town that Tlinois might be proud of. People came from all over the nation, and some even from distant lands, to see the miracle of Nauvoo. It was at the time the largest town in the state. We sometimes think of the Prophet as always despised by his countrymen. This is not quite true. During the early years of the town, when it LESSON DEPARTMENT was growing so fast and wonderfully, he was famous throughout the country. More than one great newspaper said he was among the great Americans. The truth is, he attracted wide and even favorable attention when people looked at what he had done in Nauvoo. But this success proved, in part, his undoing. You know how jealous towns can become of one another. Two towns in particular became jealous of Nauvoo?Wartsaw and Carthage. They wanted to grow, too, but they did not. They had real estate agents who wanted to make money, and so certain classes of men in these towns did not feel very -well toward Nauvoo and its chief builder. That was one source of ill will toward the Prophet. Another source was politics. Not only were the mature male members of the Church taxpayers, but they were voters as well. In Illinois, as in every other state, there were two political parties. These were the Democrats and the Whigs. Unfortunately for the Saints, as it turned out, the two parties were about equally divided. In the elections, rivalry was very keen. As you can easily imagine, each party courted the favor of the Mormons, especially of Joseph Smith, whom the members of the Church thought so much of and who had such influence with them. How would the Mormons vote in the next election? Would they vote in a body, or would they divide into Whigs and Democrats? The candidates for office would have to wait and see. But meantime, they could pay court to the newcomers and their leader. 647 As time went on, the Mormons voted according to what they believed to be their own best interests. When the Democrats won, the Whigs became angry at the Saints. The same was true if the other side - won?the Democrats were angry. At last, both sides came to dislike the Mormons. This was, then, another source of hatred against the Prophet; for, in the end, he got the blame. A third source of hatred arose within the Church. Some men who wished to be prominent, but could not be, were vexed at the Prophet on that account. Joseph loved his people, and they loved him in return. No man could take his place in their affection, These disappointed men, in 1844, joined forces with his enemies on the outside, and the effect was bad for him. THE occasion of the difficulty between the Prophet and those 'who brought about his death was something that happened in Nauvoo. Some apostates thought they would publish a paper in opposition to the periodicals put out by the Church. They gave it the suggestive name of The Expositor. 'This meant that it would "expose" something that went on in Nauvoo. Only one issue came out, however, because the City Council decided to suppress it as a nuisance?which it undoubtedly was. It was filled with slander against the prominent men in the town, especially Joseph Smith. Results followed quickly. Two days later, Constable Bettisworth called on the mayor and served a writ on him and the members of the Council. They were jointly charged with having "committed a 648 riot at and within the county." At the suggestion of a non-Mormon, they were all tried before a non-Mormon judge in Nauvoo, and acquitted. But this would not satisfy certain persons in the county. They wanted the Prophet tried in Carthage. Joseph appealed to the Governor, Thomas Ford. Would his Excellency come to Nauvoo and _ investigate? Governor Ford said he would. Instead of going to Nauvoo, however, he went to Carthage, where many of the Prophet's enemies were, who had gathered from various parts of that county and other counties. From Carthage, the Governor sent word to Joseph that he would like to have a committee come to him from Nauvoo, to consult about the case. The Prophet sent Dr. Bernhisel, John Taylor, and Dr. Willard Richards, all of whom knew the facts about the situation. The Governor then asked the Prophet to come himself to Carthage, and he gave his word that no harm would come to him or anyone with him. Naturally, Joseph did not want to go to Carthage. Here all his enemies had congregated. He said so to the Governor, but the Governor insisted. Instead of going there, however, Joseph, with two or three others, crossed the river into Iowa, with the intention of going to the West himself and later sending for all his people. They would settle in the Rocky Mountains, where there were no people except Indians. Some false friends, however, came to him in Jowa and charged him with deserting his people in their need. This was virtually a charge of cowardice on his part?something not in his nature. He said, "If my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1940 life is of no value to my friends, it is of no value to myself." Then he and his companions returned to Nauvoo. Very soon they went to Carthage, Joseph to be tried shortly. He seemed to know that he would be murdered. On the way there, he said, "I am going like a lamb to the slaughter." To Hyrum, who went with him, he said, "We shall be butchered." On reaching Carthage, he, his brother Hyrum, and some others were put into the jail. There was no law by which this was done, but it was done anyway. Then the Governor went to Nauvoo, breaking his promise to Joseph in doing so. Thus, the Prophet was left to the mercy of those who had sworn to take his life. On the afternoon of June 27, 1844, a mob shot Joseph and Hyrum to death and severely wounded John Taylor. Only Dr. Richards escaped. The cowardly deed was over in two minutes. Questions 1. How does the Church regard Joseph Smith? What are the things named here that he did? 2. Why did his enemies want to kill the Prophet? Give three reasons. 3. What was the occasion of the trouble? 4. Tell the story of how the Prophet went to Carthage. 5. What is your opinion of the Governor? Why do you hold this opinion? Hymn to be Read or Sung "The Seer, Joseph the Seer." This poem was written by John Taylor, who became the third President of the Church. He was born in England, in 1808, went to Canada in his youth, and was converted by Parley P. Pratt, in 1836. In 1839 he was made an apostle. You may remember that he was wounded in Carthage Jail at the time of the Martyrdom. The Seer, LESSON DEPARTMENT of course, was Joseph Smith. The first stanza tells of the sacredness to the author of the Prophet's memory; the second, of the Seer's work for mankind; the third, of his love for the Saints; the fourth, 649 of his freedom from the strife and woes of earth. Note: Map printed in July, 1939, issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.