"A More Perfect Union"
Vesta P. Crawford
"We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America."
ONE hundred and fifty-three years ago this September, the people of the United States of America raised a new standard to the world. Two words they had in mind—LIBERTY and UNION—two guiding words, which every patriot spoke with hope and reverence. Liberty for each individual, a union of commonwealths to work out mutual problems through the cooperation of a "Parliament of Concord." The paths of history are long, and the road into the past grows dim when the shadows of the years rest upon it. Yet it is possible for us to journey along the corridors of the long ago and see the great illumination of a beacon set high in the universe of the nations. It is September in the year 1787. Mellow tints of autumn and the amber patterns of leaves rest upon the two rivers that guard the "City of Brotherly Love." Philadelphia, a city that grew up with the nation, awaits with great anxiety to hear what the delegates to the Constitutional Convention have done. It is rumored through the city that they have drafted a new "testament of liberty" to guide America, a document that is not yet signed. Eager crowds throng Chestnut Street in front of Independence Hall where the committee has labored in secret sessions for four months. The historic walls of the old Pennsylvania State House have seen events that will never be forgotten wherever free men dwell. The walls have heard voices raised in defense of the inalienable rights of men. Here, since 1736, the legislative assemblies of Pennsylvania have convened. Here, in 1775, the Continental Congress appointed George Washington Commander-in-Chief of the Army. Here, the Declaration of Independence was signed with eternal words—"all men are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights... That to secure these rights governments are instituted among men." Here, in this "Cradle of Liberty," a name was given to the new nation—"The United States of America." Here, the Star Spangled Banner, in the year 1777, was
INDEPENDENCE HALL, PHILADELPHIA (Scene of the proclamation of the Declaration of Independence, July 4, 1776 and the meeting place of the Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention)
acclaimed as the standard of the Union. LET us enter the room quietly and see the representatives of the people at work; let us see them as they complete the final words of the Constitution of the United States. If all the deputies are present, there will be fifty-five men here. All the states except Rhode Island are represented. They sit quietly and thoughtfully in their great carved chairs. Near the back of the high-ceilinged room Benjamin Franklin stands and looks at his fellow Americans. Something has bothered him all during this convention—an item of little intrinsic significance, and yet the learned Doctor Franklin believes that it may be an emblem of something. On the back of George Washington's great armchair there is a carving of the sun with a halo of light around it. In spite of all his wisdom, Franklin cannot figure out to his own satisfaction whether this
 —SEPTEMBER, 1940
"A MORE PERFECT UNION"
is a rising or a setting sun. Artists never can distinguish between dawn and sunset. Strange people, artists. A setting sun, or a rising sun... Benjamin Franklin is nearly eighty-two years old. The son of a poor candle-maker, he has known hard work and adversity. He has worn ragged clothes, and many times he has been hungry. But those early days of struggle are long passed. Most prominent of the men of Pennsylvania, Franklin is a figure of dignity and strength. He has been honored for his work as Postmaster General of the new Union; largely through his efforts the Revolution was financed. He is the most learned man in America; he has been honored by foreign scientific societies. He has been called "the greatest philosopher of the present age." He has talked with kings and deported himself as the most kingly man of all. It has been said of him: "The very heavens obey him and the clouds yield up their lightning to be imprisoned in his rod." The wisdom of years glows upon the face of Benjamin Franklin. His mind is unclouded, his thoughts clear, his words measured, deep and rich. Again he looks at the carving on the back of Washington's armchair. Then he sees that Washington sits with his head bowed on his hands. He looks tired, weary of the burdens he has borne for his country. George Washington, the best loved man in America, is fifty-five years old. He has served the colonies as surveyor, as a soldier on the frontier, as a colonel under the British General Braddock. He has long loved his beautiful estate, Mt. Ver-
581
non, on the banks of the Potomac, and there he has gone for the short intervals of peace and rest his countrymen have allowed him. He has seen flags waved before him and flowers strewn along his path. He has stood beneath an ancient oak tree and accepted command of the colonial armies. He has felt the bitter winds of Valley Forge, and his boats have plowed through rivers of ice. He has seen his soldiers ragged, hungry, despairing. He has walked among them speaking words of cheer, and he has prayed with them in the darkness of winter nights. He has seen the colonies win their struggle for independence and reach out for larger unity and greater strength. And now in this convention where the representatives of the states are assembled, George Washington, the presiding officer, is regarded as a man of unselfish principles, unbiased judgment, unfailing loyalty. He does not know, and no man in the assembly can know, the ways of the future — but George Washington will be the first President of the new nation. He will shape American destiny under the very Constitution that he will this day sign. In after years, he shall be remembered for the strength of his manhood and the splendor of his patriotism. It shall be said of him: "The virtues of this man will continue to animate the remotest ages. He shall be called the first citizen of the world." All this in time to come. Perhaps Benjamin Franklin, more than any man in this assembly, appreciates the austere dignity, the high magnitude of George Washington's unlimited service to America. Franklin reviews again, silently, all that he has learned of liberty, and how it came to the New World. He thinks of the Mayflower Compact. How charged with fate that moment must have been when the Pilgrim Fathers signed a written document in Provincetown Harbor one month before they set foot upon the shores of America... "to frame such juste and equall laws... As shall be thought most meete... For the generall good.... " Franklin thinks of the colonies and their charters and their codes of law. He thinks of the beginnings of union, the meetings of the Continental Congress, the drafting of the Articles of Confederation, the growth and the upward reaching of the men who wished first for liberty and then for union.
THE Articles of Confederation had called for "perpetual union," but they had not supplied the framework for achieving this high degree of cooperation. They had outlined a central government too weak for action, and they had not provided for a real executive. But this convention of 1787, which at first had met to revise the Articles of Confederation, has now written a new document, a Constitution which shall be "the supreme law of the land." Not without conflict, not without despair, not without a weighing of values, not without a broad liberality of ideas, has this Constitution been achieved. Not without prayer. Benjamin Franklin remembers well the long hours of discussion, the ebbing of hope, the writing and re-writing, the changing, the additions and subtractions, that have been made to perfect the constitutional testament. He thinks of the young Alexander Hamilton and his work in the convention. Alexander Hamilton, now only thirty years old, early in life was deprived of parental care and forced to make his way alone. He earned his own money for attending King's College and learned the intricacies of the law and the instruments that guide the destinies of individuals, the high resolve of nations. Hamilton became a lieutenant colonel on General Washington's staff and served four years as his aide and confidential secretary. The General became warmly attached to this frail-looking young man whose slender strength was far more dependable than it looked. Hamilton has served in the Continental Congress, and now he represents New York State in this assembly of free people. He is a small, lean man with deep violet eyes and reddish brown hair. He is young, but his words carry the power of a brilliant mind. Profoundly he shapes the form and purpose of the Constitution. Hamilton does not know the ways of the future—but he will become Secretary of the Treasury in the cabinet of President Washington; he will lay the basis for the financial structure of the United States. Young men and old men. It is not a man's age, but the qualities of his mind, the steadfastness of his character, that give him ability and the desire to serve his country. Once more Benjamin Franklin looks over the assembly of the patriots, and his eyes center on a delegate only six years older than Hamilton. This young man is James Madi-
 —SEPTEMBER, 1940
"A MORE PERFECT UNION"
son. "The Great Little Madison," he is called. He is the "Master Mind" of this convention. One day he shall be called the "Father of the Constitution." He is a pale, thin man, below average height, but his face bears a great illumination. Once he studied for the ministry but later changed his profession to law and politics. He is the author of the "Virginia Plan," which has been the starting point for the deliberations of the convention. James Madison will be the fourth President of the United States, and his writings explaining and defending the Constitution will be a guide for generations of Americans. At the very beginning of the sessions, in May, 1787, Madison declared solemnly: "Now we must decide forever the fate of Republican government." And James Wilson, the able lawyer delegate from Pennsylvania, announced with all seriousness: "This is the first instance of a people assembled to weigh deliberately and calmly and to decide leisurely and peaceably upon the form of government by which they will bind themselves and their posterity."
THE Constitution has been called "A New Roof for America." There was a long discussion upon the relative rights and duties of the states and the central government. Washington believed in compromise of the conflicting interests. "Let us raise a standard," he declared, "to which the wise and honest can repair."
583
So it was through the days of that summer. Constant effort, continued self-control, ever an attempt to draft principles of government which would be invincible enough for permanency and yet pliable enough to meet national emergencies. When the final day came and the document was ready for the signatures, Benjamin Franklin slowly unfolded a paper and read in measured tones: "I doubt whether any Convention we can obtain may be able to make a better Constitution. It... Astonishes me... To find this system approaching so near perfection as it does...." Then he watched the men as they signed. He walked slowly toward the front of the room and stood behind Washington's chair. He watched the curves of the letters as Washington wrote his name — "George Washington, President and Deputy from Virginia.". It was then that Benjamin Franklin felt that the problem which had been troubling him all summer was solved—that carved sun on the back of the chair. It was a rising sun. He knew it. He told the other delegates how sure he was. "I have the happiness to know that it is a rising, not a setting sun." A radiance seems to fill the room. The delegates rise from their chairs. George Washington stands with the precious document in his hands. His eyes seem to look forward along the future years when the Constitution shall stand as a beacon for Americans in the ages that shall come.