[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Baby Dear Abbie R. Madsen]

Abbie R. Madsen. New Issue of the Book of Mormon. Every member of the Church will rejoice to see our beloved Book of Mormon set up in beautiful form, finish and completeness. Helps and references are furnished the eager student which have been needed and longed for lo! These many years. Those who have performed this patient, loving, yet strenuous task have acquitted themselves with honor to the Church and credit to themselves. We express gratitude to the presiding authorities and to all concerned. OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT. We are pleased to announce a new issue of the Book of Mormon. From the time of its first publication, in 1830, to the present, the demand for this volume of Scripture has been constantly increasing. So many imprints have been taken from the several sets of old plates that all of these have become defectively worn, and the preparation of a new set of electrotypes was deemed imperative. The necessary re-setting of type afforded an opportunity of making several improvements in bookmaking details. Among these improvements the following are worthy of special mention: 1. Instead of the small type heretofore used, the text of the new issue is printed from 8-point Bible-type, which produces a large bold-faced letter, particularly clear and easy to read. 2. The text is set in two columns to the page, Bible style, thus presenting short lines, which are éasily followed, instead of the long lines of full-page width hitherto used. 3. Each chapter is preceded by a concise heading, embodying its principal contents. 4. The designation of book and chapter at the top of each page has been simplified and: made much more serviceable than the old style. 5. The foot-note references have been carefully revised, and in some instances, amplified. 6. At the bottom of each page, excepting only the Book of Ether, the chronology of principal events is given, as such a time "B. C.," or "A. D." The years are distinguished as exact or approximate specifications according to the information furnished by the Book of Mormon itself. 7. Preceding the text is a "Brief Analysis of the Book of Mormon," which will greatly assist the reader in comprehending the relations of the several divisions or "books" to each other. NEW ISSUE OF THE BOOK OF MORMON. 97 8. Also preceding the text, appears a comprehensive account of the "Origin of the Book of Mormon," which is couched, almost entirely, in the words of the inspired translator, Joseph Smith, the Prophet. 9. Following the text is a "Synopsis of Chapters," and other helps. 10. A "Pronouncing Vocabulary" gives a simple and consistent pronunciation of practically every proper name, and of some other words, of Book of Mormon origin. 11. What promises to be one of the most helpful features of the new issue is the comprehensive "Index," comprising sixtyeight columns of reference date, grouped both according to subjects and to important passages. The need of an index to the Book of Mormon has long been yearningly felt and dtrongly expressed. We doubt not that this addendum to the volume will be greatly appreciated. The first edition from the new plates is printed on paper of superior quality, and is supplied in a variety of better-class bindings. We trust the publication of the Book of Mormon in this improved form will result in a more devoted study of this distinctive volume of Holy Scripture, and in a fuller application of its saving precepts and principles in the lives of our people and amongst all who read it. Heser J. Grant, AntHon H. Lunp, Cuartes W. PENROSE, First Presidency. Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec. 24, 1920. Few of our people realize the magnificent service rendered to the Church as a whole, and to every organization in the Church, by the published Biographical Encyclopedia, which has been edited and put out, at some personal loss, by our gifted and great historian, Andrew Jenson. The last volume of the Biographical Encyclopedia contains more of the brief sketches and pictures of various leading men and women in the Church. All people who ever write or read history, who want facts concerning friends, relatives or leaders, who study lessons or prepare data of any kind, will find these volumes of inestimable value. We commend them to every Relief Society in the Church, and suggest their purchase for the Relief Society Library.