[Spring by Beatrice Knowlton Ekman]

Spring "Pat Allen" coat now! Toast, Gray or Navy. Sizes 12 to 18 COATS and SUITS Downstairs Store Pc, Josef Muench, "CACTUS BLOSSOMS" (Trichocereus schaeferii) 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 
She had never thought of it quite that way before. It was strangely comforting. She pushed her hair back and said quietly, "Oh, I love doing it. After all, I am his wife, you know. No sacrifice is too great."

"Oh, yes, I know, Myra. I adore Phil, too, but . . . ."

"Remember the fun we used to have at the 'Book Nook'?" She didn't want Peggy to say anything that would disturb the picture in her mind, the picture of her sacrificing herself for Bob. Now, and down through the years to come.

"Oh, I'll never forget. Did you know that Ruth is opening a shop here in Scoville?" Peggy asked. "She wants me to come and work for her after the baby is born, but of course I can't. But I know she would give the job to you."

The job would be hers for the asking. And it would help out. Bob's pension was very modest. Her spirits soared and then flattened. "Oh, no, I couldn't. Bob . . . ."

"Even for half a day?"

"I wouldn't think of leaving Bob." She was not aware that she stood very tall, that her smile was heroically brave.

Peggy patted her arm. "You're an angel, Myra. A patient, good angel."

Again there was that strange, new, intoxicating feeling. "Oh, no, I'm not an angel, Peggy. I'm just doing my duty, as any wife would."

THEY parted soon after. Myra crossed ground beef off her list and bought steak. It would pinch her budget, but she would go without something herself so Bob could have the best.

The Hendersons were quarreling again. She heard their voices as she turned the corner. "You can just as well sit in the lawn swing, Zach Henderson! Least until I get the porch washed off!"

"Don't need to wash the porch off again, and danged if I'm going to move!"

Myra was even with the Henderson's now. She could see Mr. Henderson in the rocking chair on the front porch, his feet on the railing, and Mrs. Henderson standing over him, a broom in her hand.

"You'll move!" She nodded her head so vigorously that the white bun of hair quivered. "Or I'll squirt the hose on you full force!" She marched down the steps, dropped the broom, picked up the hose and turned it on.

"Okay, I'm movin' then!" Mr. Henderson swung his feet down from the railing and stomped angrily down the porch steps and across the lawn, short and bow-legged, his white hair seeming to stand on end with anger. "Plagued woman! Think we was goin' to eat off the porch!"

I'll never talk to Bob like that, Myra thought. Never. Someday people would say, "Little Mrs. Forrest . . . so patient . . . never a cross word . . . ." The feeling she had had when she was talking to Peggy deepened until it was like warm, sweet honey.

She opened the back door of her house, called gaily, "I'm home, Bob. Everything all right?"

There was no answer. Something had happened. "Bob!" Terror jagged her voice. She hurried into the front room and stopped. Bob was sitting in the big chair in his corner reading a book. You could