[Notes From the Field: Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]

Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Florence Maller AUSTRALIAN MISSION, PERTH BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, September 24, 1948
First Counselor Florence Maller is shown at one of the booths prepared for this unusual and very beautiful exhibit. Included in the displays were dolls, sea-grass baskets, stools, children's wear, crochet work, hand embroidery, and many novelties, including toy animals. Particularly useful, as well as beautiful, were the colorful aprons and tablecloths. This active branch, "the most isolated in the world" (According to Sister Maller), is very devoted to all phases of Relief Society work. The Perth Branch was the first in the Australian Mission to complete its Building Fund quota, which was raised through personal donations and a most successful concert. Many of the Perth sisters travel long distances to attend their meetings and find much satisfaction in Relief Society work to reward their efforts. Sister L. Macmillan is president of the Perth Branch Relief Society and Sister H. Glass is second counselor. Blanche K. Richmond is president of the Australian Mission Relief Society. : NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 nadia submitted - caiear McPeak NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, SANTA ROSA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, November 8, 1948
Left to right: President Agnes Gross; First Counselor Mary S. Sanders; Second Counselor Ada M. Wilson; Secretary-Treasurer Grace McPeak. These officers have recently been released and new ones appointed. Mary S. Ellsworth is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Clare K. Claridge MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, LORDSBURG (NEW MEXICO) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, November 7, 1948
Seated, left to right: Margaret B. Speer; First Counselor Edith B. Bradberry; Elva B. Hatch of Roswell, New Mexico. Standing, left to right: Ruth B. Barnes; Orpha B. Nally; Leta B. Harwood; Lucille B. Bailey. A special feature of this conference was the honoring of Sister Edith B. Bradberry, an outstanding Relief Society officer and a well-loved member of the community, and the mother of six daughters who helped to furnish music for the conference. Erma M, Stewart is president of Mount Graham Stake Relief Society. 
276 
Photograph submitted by Vera H. Mayhew BERKELEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA), EAST RICHMOND WARD CHRISTMAS PARTY, December 21, 1948
This party was a particularly happy and well-planned occasion, with appropriate seasonal decorations, refreshments, and a Chnstmas program. Officers of East Richmond Ward Relief Society are: President Candus McDaniel; First Counselor Della Chester; Second Counselor Ruth Yancy; Secretary Beatrice Brough. Vera H. Mayhew is president of Berkeley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nadine Brown NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON THIRD WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT THEIR CHRISTMAS CANTATA, December 1948
Front row, seated, left to right: Pamela Huber; Nellie Bannister; Second Counselor Fern Williams; President Isabelle Millett; First Counselor Ida Reece. Second row, seated, left to right: Helen Cowan; Vida Moore; Pearl Blain; Dolly Simmons; Elda Day; May Bishop. - Third row, seated, left to right: Sarah Tanner; Ann Wilson; Naomi Tew; Hazel Baird; Elma Peck; Iva Chase; Della King. Back row, standing, left to right: Iris Amos; Hazel Manwill; Elsie Eckersley, organist; Ramona Smith, pianist; Ruth Walton; Julene Pans; Zenda Jones. This chorus has presented three Christmas cantatas and two Easter cantatas, and, in addition, they have served the community and the ward in many meetings, entertainments, and on other occasions. Nadine Brown is president' of Nebo Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277
Photograph submitted by Alligee L. Anderson JUAB STAKE (UTAH), NEPHI FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR December 9, 1949
Left to right: work committee members, Ruby Cox, Ireta Park, and Ruth Wells; work mecting Icader Elnora Foote; assistant Secretary-Treasurer Lucille Lunt; First Counselor Pearl Jenkins; President Alligee L. Anderson; Second Counselor Kate Haynes; Secretary-Treasurer Mayme Kendall. The photograph shows only part of the many beautiful aprons, quilts, rugs, and many other articles which were very carefully made for this bazaar, one of the most successful ever held in the ward. Lua L. Stephenson is president of Juab Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Josephine S. Bird UTAH STAKE, PROVO SIXTH WARD CELEBRATES A CENTURY OF SETTLEMENT IN UTAH VALLEY Ten Former Relief Society Presidents Wearing Authentic Pioneer Costumes. Seated, left to right: Phoebe Smoot; Inez Menlove; Frances Callahan; Eliza C. Nelson. Standing, left to right: Violet Stevens; Martha Brimhall; Marion Johnson; Fay Loveless; Rosalind Oakley; Priscilla Jensen. ) Sister Nelson was the first president in this group and Sister Brimhall the most recent past president. Zola Sandgren is now the ward Relief Society president. Josephine S. Bird is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. ~~ 
278  edie py a POWER iia rel b rere oe a er le Pie need A sree Egat, oe ates Photograph submitted by Ellen C. Toombs NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH), BRIGHAM CITY THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT A SOCIAL, July 13, 1948
Left to right: Secretary Ellen C. Toombs; President Rose Young; Second Counselor Mildred Rasmussen; First Counselor Laura E. Zundel. Lucille L. Wight is president of North Box Elder Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Hilda H. Bringhurst ZION PARK STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS PLAY "THE BRIDE'S INVITATION" Annual Fall Convention 1948 In the photograph the mother, at the right, represents the Relief Society organization. She is telling her daughter, the bride, who represents all young women, the values of Relief Society and The Relief Society Magazine. As various phases of the program were discussed by the mother, the pages of the Magazine opened to reveal these activities. About sixty-five people participated in the play which was written by Elda N. Jepson of Hurricane. The poems, and the songs, which were sung by the Singing Mothers, including the music, were all composed by members of Zion Park "The Bride's Invitation" -.----s---sescccescsecserectete tetElda N. Jepson "A Tribute to the Visiting Teacher" - ----------------sRoma W. Stout "Joy of Living -.-.----words by Partha Jackson and music by Dixie Harrison "Song of Praise" ------words by Camilla Judd and music by Mildred Sanders In the above photograph the mother is represented by Josephine Sandburg, and the bride by Mary Helen Tweedie. Hilda H. Bringhurst is president of Zion Park Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 279 WESTERN STATES MISSION Grand Junction (Colorado) Relief Socie Officers and Magazine Representative Seated: Arya Algood, Magazine representative, Standing, left to night: President Laura Barlow; Secretary Melba Larsen; Counselors Mary Cunningham and Estelle Or. Chard. Sister Algood writes: "While my hus. Band spent eleven days hunting deer, J The Relief Society Magazine. J] sold some to men and found a number of them who were very much interested in it." As a result of her devoted "followup" work, Sister Algood has secured 116 subscriptions in a branch with a membership of sixty-seven, Lula P. Child is President of the West. Erm States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Margaret M. Peterson NORWEGIAN MISSION, STAVANGER BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFF ICERS 
280 
Photograph submitted by Luise Petersen NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION, ST. PAUL (MINNESOTA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, November 1948
Seated, left to right: President Luise Petersen; First Counselor Laura Koutz; Second Counselor Jeanette Jesse; Secretary Bertha Stewart. Note the beautifully designed quilts in the background and the plain and fancy aprons. Embroidered pillowcases, crocheted hot pads, toys, tea towels, guest towels, and many other well-made articles were displayed, making an unusually successful bazaar. Laura M. Hawkes is president of the North Central States Mission Relief Society. "ys Photograph submitted by Nina Callister EMIGRATION STAKE (UTAH), STADIUM VILLAGE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MANY PROGRAMS THROUCHOUT THE SALT LAKE CITY REGION Front row, seated, left to right: Chorister Nina Callister; organist Irene Bartschi; chorus president Alene Schofield, secretary Lois Livingston; vice-president Katherine Bradford; Iris Heap; Carol Bitner. Second row, seated, left to right: Virginia Ivins; Jane Lee; Margaret Talbot; Beth Taylor; Shirley Howarth; Fern Wilson; Verna Mae Burnett; Dana Woodbury. Back row, standing, left to right: Evelyn Lawrence, Delsa Anderson; Marjorie Holman; Margaret Richards; LaReah 'Toronto; Jeanne Olson.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281
These young women, whose ages range from twenty to thirty-one, are wives of ' veterans attending the University of Utah. 'They are all mothers, with one to three children. Sister Callister, in reporting the activities of this ambitious group, says: "In many places the young mothers drop out of Church activity because of overwork with the new child, but the Stadium Village mothers care well for their children and daddy takes over after classes on the night when mamma is 'singing out.' The chorus _ meets weekly in the village at the home of Margaret Richards." Mildred Dyer, not in the picture, is the president of this Relief Society. »: Winniefred Manwaring is president of Emigration Stake Relief Society. &ighty-Seventh Birthday Nan S. Richardson This is my birthday, without consideration— I'm eighty-seven years, no exaggeration; I don't feel very I don't feel very old, optimistic observation, young, this needs some explanation. But I'm happy, looking forward with great anticipation For better days to come in this last dispensation. ——iP-e Thunderstorm (Continued from page 238) YRA stopped suddenly, all the | bitterness and anger gone. And she was sick with realization 'of what had happened. She saw Bob swallow. He said quietly, "We sounded just like the Hendcrsons."
Myra pushed open the front screen and ran down the steps. She heard the door slam, Bob's voice, "Myra!" He was running, and he musn''t run! By the Henderson's fence she swung around to face him. She heard a voice say affectionately, "There. Here's a cushion for your back, Nonnie." "Thanks, dear." Mr. And Mrs.
Henderson were sitting close together in the lawn swing, so close Myra could have reached her hand through the feathery shrubbery and touched them.
They were drinking lemonade. Bob reached Myra. He. Said, "Honey—" And then stopped, fascinated, too, by this new picture of the Hendersons.
Myra saw Mr.
Henderson pat Mrs. Henderson's. Hand. "Mighty cooling lemonade, Nonnie." Nonnie Henderson looked up at him, a twinkle in her brown eyes. "Not near as cooling as that hose would have been this morning, if you hadn't moved!" "Would you a'squirted on me? Really?" "IT sure would of, if you hadn't moved.", The old man chuckled. Noticed I moved quick." Nonnie Henderson bent over and kissed him gently on the cheek, and the lawn swing swung contentedly back and forth.
Myra felt Bob take hold of her arm, pilot her up the street. "What do you know!" he whispered. "Their quarrels don't mean anything. They "You 282 are just thunderstorms to clear the air. You can see they are nuts about each other." "Oh, Bob, I was going to be so noble." "Sure. Me, too. Noble Bob, a hero to the end with never a gripe, never a cross word to the little woman. But people aren't noble, honey. They're just poor humans bristling with annoying habits." "T didn't really mean it, about getting a job." "Why not, honey?
That is, for awhile. I think that's what you need.
Maybe for just half a day. You could bring the groceries home and I could fool around in the kitchen fixing meals." Yes, alone in the kitchen, Bob could manage very well. "I'd never leave you alone!" "Okay, so I'd be alone a half day, so what? I'd have enough to keep me busy—looking after my canaries." "Your canaries!" "Yeah. I'm going to raise canaries to sell.
Fellow in the hospital gave me those magazines and I've been studying up on them, trying to decide." 
Myra went on a mental tour of their small house. "You could have them in the basement." "Basement!" Bob said indignantly. "Basement'd be too damp. 'The glassed-in porch would be just the ticket.
Even temperature.
Lots of sunshine." Myra's mind tried dizzily to adjust to the future and a front room full of warbling canaries. ""Th-that's a grand idea. Is there money in it, Bob?" "You bet!' Bob's voice was enthusiastic for the first time in months. "This fellow was telling me, over a period of time, his brother made enough money to pay for his home. I figure.", "Enough—" the words came out thick, "enough to someday afford a baby?" Bob pulled her hand through his arm and patted it. "You bet.
Darned soon! That's why I said work at the book shop, but only for a little while. Until I get this canary business going. Okay?" Myra's small world righted itself and began to turn, crazily, stormily, but happily. "Okay, Bob,". She echoed. O— Through the Darkness (Continued from page 244) profile, and she saw the tears glistening on his lashes; and his lips were moving silently. Instinctively, she knew they were saying a_ prayer. And she had thought he didn't care enough! A deep peace crept over her. And a new strength, a strength of faith and hope, one that she had lost for awhile, but which Larry had carried through the darkness. She turned and walked noiselessly to the window and looked out at the bright autumn day. Wet branches shook their dripping leaves gently. "Becky!" She felt Larry's hand on her shoulder. "You were gone so bright and early. I didn't even hear you.
When did you get up?" She turned and smiled up at him. "Oh, I got up when it was still dark." THROUGH THE DARKNESS she said brightly. "But look, Larry, isn't it a lovely day?" He looked at her quickly and a broad grin spread over his face. "Uh-huh," he said and squeezed her shoulders in his arms. "Maybe it's nice enough we could even go dancing tonight. Do you think?" "Maybe," she said and _ slipped her arm through his. ~~ The Boy There (Continued from page 228) forty had risen to the top of the bank on either side and threatened to spill over. But Pa had only laughed at that. He wanted to stop working and go back to the house. It would be easy to find excuses for coming in. He could go to the attic room and he would be safe. He thought of his father, and it was like the pressure of a steadying hand on his shoulder. He took a firmer grip on the shovel handle. He began working quickly as though there was no fear in him. He kept reminding himself of the look there would be in Pa's eyes if he should know his son had quit, left a job unfinished.
Feverishly he worked for what seemed a long time, never once looking to the east nor at the dark sky above him. He kept saying, "T've got to get this done. It's my job." The moisture in the air had changed to actual rain now. He felt the drops, large and cool, against his forehead, on his bare arms, through his shirt that was already clinging to his small body.