[Once by Belle W. Anderson]

oncerning life and immortality are given.
There are those who teach that our faith in Christ is built upon the "blessed mystery of the incatnation."
Must our faith forever rest upon a mystery?
Jesus did not so teach. His philosophy was plain and easy to understand. He said: "Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for | am meek and lowly in heart; and ye shall find rest unto your souls" (Matt. 11:29).
There are some things we may not fully understand, but the way of life— the pathway to Jesus—is not filled with mystery. "Tf any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, oF whether I speak of myself" (John 7:17). The key is given there by the Lord.
Doing his will unlocks the mysteries.
Following closely the path he marked brings us to the light of God. If we do not know that Jesus 18 the Lord, it does not mean that he cannot be known. It means we have not done his will; we have not followed where he led. Our duty is to find the pathway to the knowledge that Jesus does live. It can be found. "No man can Say the Lord, but by the that Jesus ls Holy Ghost" JESUS—LORD OF THE RESURRECTION (1
Cor. 12:3). The plain implication is that by the Holy Ghost we may receive a testimony and say that we know Jesus is the Lord. In the gospel of our Lord the way is mapped out for us to receive the Holy Ghost. One of the sweetest joys of life is to have that great gift. It brings a knowledge of our Redeemer. We may know that he lives. Because he lives, we will live. Because he was resurrected, we will be raised from the grave. 'Through Jesus Christ came the redemption of man. And because of the redemption of man, which came by Jesus Christ, they are brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea, this is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pass a redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all men shall be awakened by the power of God when the trump shall sound; and they shall come forth, both small and great, and all shall stand before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from this eternal band of death, which death is a temporal death (Book of Mormon, Mormon 9:13). HE prophet Alma tells us that when the spirit leaves the body it returns to the God who gave it life, there to be assigned to the place its life's work has merited. The spirits of the righteous "are received into a state of happiness, which is called paradise" where they shall be free from cares and _ sorrows. 'Those who have been unrighteous and wicked are "cast out into outer darkness' (Alma 40:12, 13). This place called paradise is not one of inactivity. To the righteous, it 223 is a State of joy, of growth and progress. Rest does not mean idleness —that is often boredom. Jesus, when he had finished his work on the cross, went to paradise and preached to spirits who were disobedient in the days of Noah (1
Peter 3:19-20). For what did he go? Just to add to their misery by telling them what they had missed? That thought does an injustice to the loving, merciful Redeemer. He took to them a message of hope. A great part of the work of the Savior lay ahead of him when he expired on the cross. It was not until he was resurrected from the tomb, not until the spirit and body had been reunited that he became a living soul and was prepared to return to his Father, that the fulness of his work had been accomplished. Then it was that it pleased the "Father that in him should all fulness dwell." He was then in a position to extend the saving graces of the resurrection to all of our Father's children. As Jesus became a living soul after the resurrection, so by his redeeming power will our spirits and bodies be re-united and become living souls, to become inseperable, immortal, and eternal beings forever. Why should we reject a great and glorious event because, forsooth, we do not understand just how it was accomplished or brought about? The resurrection of Jesus was real. He was not a deceiver nor did he take up his body to later discard it. How can we doubt the actual corporeity of the resurrected Lord, if we accept the scriptures as evidence? Moreover, we are definitely promised that if we do obey the gospel of 224
Christ, we may know by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost that Jesus was resurrected and that we will be resurrected. That principle is a part of the gospel. The whole of Christianity revolves around that truth. "For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised: and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins" (1
Cor. 15:16-17). That body he took up was real. With it he ate broiled fish and honeycomb (Luke 24:42-43). When he left his disciples an angel told them: "This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven" (Acts 1:11). Why surround the event with mystery? Often the grandest things are simple when we understand them. The Creator of heaven and earth had power to lay down his life and take his body up from the tomb. Then, surely, he has power to call all men from their graves. "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" (1
Cor, 15:22).
During one of his last talks with his disciples before his ascension into heaven, Jesus said: "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth" (Matt. 28:18). His authority and power are supreme. He is Lord omnipotent, "who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God" (Phil, 276).
That he did cause others to be resurrected is shown by the following scripture: "And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came  out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many" (Matt. 27:52-53).
This occurred after the resurrection of the Lord. He was the "first fruits" of the resurrection.
There is no question about those who slept in the graves being raised from the dead. If many were resurrected, all can and will be. "And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation" (John 5:29). In another place John further states: And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were 'in them: and they were judged every man according to their works (Rev. 20:12-13). The question asked by Job: "If a man die, shall he live again?" was answered. For thousands of years men have asked that question. The answer came, after the cross, on the first Easter morning when Christ, "the first born of every creature," came out of the tomb. If man die, he shall live again. To Latter-day Saints, the resurrection is a glorious event to which they look forward.