[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Duche]
[The First Prayer Made in the Congress of the United States The Reverend Mr. Duche]

Father and the other men folks spent most of the time around the grain exhibit, where they argued the merits of the new Turkey red wheat against the old stand-by, macaroni wheat. Like connoisseurs examining diamonds, they fingered bowls of bright, clean grain from which had been painstakingly removed every weed seed and defective kernel. They discussed rye, barley, spelt, and oats, milo maize and millet, the exhibitors of each new variety enthusiastically describing its yield and drought-resistant qualities. Like most of the women and girls, I gravitated toward the homemakers' division where the walls were hung with hand-pieced quilts, braided and hooked tugs, knit sweaters, and crocheted doilies. There was a canning exhibit of jams and jellies and cold-packed vegetables, and a table of pies and cakes, and light bread. 'he women exchanged recipes, and told how their hens were laying, and wrote down directions for making buffalo-berry jelly, and lace edgings, and complexion cream from sheep's tallow. The once-a-year harvest festival served the homesteader's wife in lieu of women's clubs, and P. T. A., and sewing circles. Not for twelve months would there be another "visiting" opportunity like this, and, as though to make the most of the day, each woman talked fast and breathlessly. Out-of-town land speculators, intently watching developments in this new "west-of-the-river" region, were conducted through the display room by local boosters and farm agents who called attention to squashes as long as salt barrels, twenty-pound cabbages, and turnips thirty inches in circumference. Enthusiastically, they exhibited a jar of Hansen plums preserved whole, explaining that here was a new variety especially developed by Professor Hansen to withstand the intense cold of our Great Plains winters. HARVEST FESTIVAL Right at that moment, it was difficult to think of winter and cold weather, for even inside the building where the pine-board floor was still damp from a_ vigorous scrubbing that morning, the thermometer registered nearly ninety degrees. Outside, there was not a leaf stirring, and the August sun pounded hot on the treeless, dusty street— now so alive with more hoofs and wheels than it had known—or would know again — for many a month. Saddle horses fretted uneasily at the hitching rails, and stamped at flies. Cattle ranchers and cowboys, in "bat-wing" chaps and Stetsons, swaggered up and down the plank sidewalk, hailing friends and discussing the weather, range conditions, and the everlasting water shortage. A general air of festivity prevailed— festivity and truce. On this one day of the year, even the ranking feud between the cattlemen and the homesteaders seemed momentarily held in abeyance. Elaborate preparations had been made for the afternoon entertainment at the fair grounds, where a dusty race track encircled eighty acres of prairie. From a weatherbeaten grandstand, filled to capacity, three hundred persons cheered themselves hoarse as they watched the cow-pony races, the fat men's and three-legged races, the bronchobusting and bulldogging and calf roping, and the hilarious wagon race, "for Indian squaws only." For the afternoon finale there was a baseball game — married men versus single men. With the arrival of early darkness, a huge bonfire of packing cases was kindled in the center of Main 581 Street, and the setting was made ready for the Indian war dance. 'The performers — elaborately clad in beads and buckskin, and porcupinequill vests, and austerity — had ndden into town by horseback and buckboard. After the "pow-wow," the fivepiece town band assembled on the flag-decorated platform, and, following a brief period of preliminary toots and moans, crashed into the opening bars of "Ihe Star-Spangled Banner." An hour later, the concert closed with a muted rendition of "Home, Sweet Home." It was past midnight before the shadowy, welcome bulk of our home buildings came into view. With white frost sparkling on barn roof and fences, and a sliver of moon riding high, the tired horses were unhitched and watered by lantern light, and we turned thankfully toward home and bed. In his arms Father carried his prize-winning sheaf of wheat, which he was planning already to enter in the forthcoming county fair at Buffalo Gap. In Mother's purse were two blue ribbons for "'raised"' biscuits and chokecherry butter, and a second award for dried limas. Not even the lateness of the hour could keep our hearts from singing. Let the Mister Fosters say what they would about the "tomfoolery" of the fair, but on this day the homesteader and his wife had proved to the world — and what was more important, to themselves — that they had been right in choosing as their home this virgin prairie. In the Harvest Festival their hopes had been revived, their faith in the land rededicated.