[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: Special | Author: Burt]
[Special Birthday — Part II Olive W. Burt]
TbohuL TO  THE  FIELD 
tyCnnual  (general  iKeuef  Society  (conference 
'T'HE  annual  general  Relief  Society  conference  will  be  held  Wednesday 
and  Thursday,  September  28  and  29,  1955.  A  special  feature  of  this 
conference  is  the  holding,  simultaneously,  of  individual  departments  on 
Thursday  morning.  Therefore,  it  is  advisable  that  as  many  members  of 
the  stake  boards  as  possible  attend  these  sessions.  On  Thursday  afternoon 
in  the  Tabernacle,  a  meeting  will  be  held  to  which  the  general  member- 
ship of  Relief  Society  and  the  public  are  invited.  It  is  suggested  that  ward 
Relief  Society  presidents  ask  their  bishops  to  announce  in  the  wards  the 
general  session  of  the  conference  on  Thursday  afternoon,  September  29. 
The  attendance  at  the  meetings  on  Wednesday  and  on  Thursday  morning 
is  limited  to  stake  and  mission  officers. 
[Bulling  cJextbooks  for  uielief  Society  JLessons 
"C^ROM  inquiries  which  come  to  the  general  board  it  would  seem  that 
some  Relief  Society  officers  and  class  leaders  are  not  acquainted  with 
the  recommended  procedure  for  acquiring  necessary  textbooks  for  lessons. 
The  education  counselor  in  both  the  stake  and  ward  should  pre- 
sent to  the  president  of  the  respective  organizations,  a  list  of  the  textbooks 
which  will  be  needed  to  teach  the  Relief  Society  lessons  during  the  coming 
season.  She  should  then  be  authorized  to  purchase  these  books  with  funds 
from  the  Relief  Society  general  fund.  The  education  counselor  should 
see  that  the  name  of  the  Relief  Society  organization  is  written  in  each 
book  before  giving  it  to  the  respective  stake  or  ward  class  leader  for  her 
use.  At  the  end  of  the  course  the  education  counselor  is  responsible  for 
collecting  the  books  and  placing  them  in  the  Relief  Society  library. 
Where  a  teacher  wishes  to  purchase  her  own  textbook  in  order  to  be 
able  to  mark  it  and  keep  it  after  the  conclusion  of  the  course,  it  is  recom- 
mended that  the  Relief  Society  organization  should  also  purchase  a  text- 
book: 1.  in  order  that  the  book  may  become  a  part  of  the  Relief  Society 
library;  2.  to  be  available  for  use  by  those  given  special  assignments;  3.  be- 
cause a  change  of  teachers  might  be  necessary  during  the  course,  and  at 
that  time  it  might  be  impossible  for  the  Relief  Society  organization  to 
purchase  a  copy  of  the  desired  textbook. 
Education  counselors  are  urged  to  safeguard  Relief  Society  libraries 
and  to  be  alert  to  opportunities  of  adding  to  them  gifts  of  Church  and 
other  worthwhile  books. 
Page  590

Special  Birthday 
Part  II 
Olive  W.  Burt 
Synopsis:  Calvin  Gregory  has  reached 
the  age  of  sixty-five,  and  his  wife,  Myra, 
is  worried  over  his  adjustment  to  retire- 
ment from  his  regular  work.  The  chil- 
dren and  grandchildren  celebrate  his  party, 
but  most  of  the  gifts  are  suitable  for  hob- 
bies only,  and  Calvin  feels  that  he  is 
facing  a  future  which  holds  httle  for  him 
but  old  age  and  uninteresting,  useless  pur- 
suits. 
MYRA  had  not  slept  very  long, 
after  the  excitement  of  Cal's 
birthday  dinner,  when  she 
was  suddenly  awake.  She  lay  there, 
looking  at  the  patch  of  sky  that 
she  could  see  through  the  window. 
She  knew  it  was  still  deep  night, 
no  sign  of  morning.  She  wondered 
what  had  brought  her  out  of  the 
depth  of  dreamless  slumber. 
In  a  moment  she  knew.  It  was 
Cal.  He  was  turning  restlessly  in 
bed,  unable  to  relax,  to  go  to  sleep. 
"Cal?"  she  asked  softly,  "what  is 
it?" 
Suddenly,  there  in  the  night, 
Cal's  defenses  gave  way.  He  put 
his  arms  around  Myra;  buried  his 
face  in  her  hair. 
"I'm  scared,  Myra.    Scared!" 
She  raised  her  hand  and  gently 
touched  his  cheek.    "Why,  Cal?" 
"Oh,  the  years  ahead— the  long 
years  and  no  daily  work." 
"You'll  find  lots  to  do,  Cal.  The 
garden— your  workshop— your  music, 
Church  work.  And  we  can  travel- 
see  Mexico  and  the  places  we've 
always  wanted  to  see." 
Cal  was  silent  for  several  mo- 
ments.   Then  he  said  slowly,  "The 
garden  and  shop,  Myra,  and  Church, 
you  know  they  can't  take  up  all 
my  time.  Not  even  with  my  music. 
I've  put  in  an  eight  hour  day,  five— 
sometimes  six— days  a  week  all  my 
married  life.  And  I've  still  had  time 
to  keep  up  the  garden,  do  all  I 
wanted  to  in  the  shop,  and  perform 
my  Church  duties.  And  the  organ 
playing— I've  done  that,  too— I  can't 
do  those  things  for  eight  hours 
straight.  And  if  I  do,  there'll  still 
be  the  evenings  .  .  .  ." 
"Well,  there's  travel-" 
Cal's  voice  was  desperate.  "Myra, 
we  might  as  well  face  it.  We  won't 
have  money  to  do  much  traveling. 
Oh,  we'll  have  social  security,  yes— 
about  one-fourth  what  I've  been 
earning.  We'll  find  it  difficult  to 
keep  up  the  house  and  live  any- 
where near  as  we  have  been  living. 
I  should  have  saved  more,  I 
know  .  .  .  ."  his  voice  trailed  off, 
hopeless. 
Myra  lay  there  beside  him,  think- 
ing back.  They  had  tried  to  save, 
but  always  something  had  come  up. 
She  remembered  her  own  efforts. 
Years  ago  she  had  placed  her  goal 
at  a  modest  hundred  dollars.  Oh, 
how  she  had  scrimped  and  worked 
to  save  that  money!  And  she  had 
nearly  reached  her  target  when 
Hughie's  tonsils  had  had  to  be  re- 
moved. And  complications  had  set 
in,  and  the  entire  little  sum  had 
been  used  up  before  the  child  was 
well  again. 
Myra  hadn't  hesitated,  of  course, 
Page  591

592 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1955 
when  Hughie's  welfare  was  at  stake. 
She  had  just  been  grateful  that  the 
money  was  there  to  use  for  the  boy. 
Cheerfully  she  had  set  to  work 
again  to  save  her  hundred  dollars. 
And  after  months  of  watching  every 
penny,  she  had  reached  her  goal  and 
started  on  the  second  hundred.  And 
then  a  terrific  windstorm  had  come. 
One  of  the  old,  big  trees  had  blown 
down,  smashing  the  porch  and  a 
corner  of  the  roof.  Repairs  had  had 
to  be  made,  and  Cal's  earnings  at 
that  time  had  not  permitted  him  to 
save  for  emergencies.  So  Myra's 
little  fund  had  come  out  a  second 
time,  and  the  house  had  been  fixed 
up. 
And  so  it  had  been,  time  after 
time.  Of  course,  of  late  years  they 
had  managed  to  save  some,  but 
never  as  much  as  they  had  planned. 
They  had  rather  thought  that  when 
the  children  were  educated  and 
married,  they  could  put  away  a 
large  part  of  Cal's  salary.  But  it 
hadn't  worked  out  like  that.  If  one 
of  Hugh's  children,  or  Carol's, 
needed  something  badly— like  the 
time  Elspeth  had  rheumatic  fever 
and  required  hospitalization  and  a 
long  period  of  special  care— Myra 
and  Cal  had  come  to  the  aid  of 
their  harassed  young  parents,  only 
thankful  that  they  were  able  to 
help.  But  the  savings  had  never 
amounted  to  enough  to  make  them 
secure. 
Myra  ran  her  hand  gently  across 
Cal's  forehead,  erasing  the  frown 
beneath  her  fingertips. 
''We've  done  the  best  we  could, 
Cal.  And  somehow  we've  man- 
aged to  meet  every  crisis.  As  we'll 
meet  this  one." 
Cal  sighed  heavily.     'The  crises. 
yes.  We've  met  those.  But  the 
extra  things  we've  planned  —  the 
travel  you  spoke  of.  Myra,  how 
many  times  have  we  thought  we 
could  go  to  Mexico,  see  the  pyra- 
mids and  the  Aztec  and  Mayan 
ruins?  It's  been  our  dream  for
