[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Luce]
Bell Celia Luce I held a tiny, shining copper bell in my hand. My fingers closed tightly over the whole bell and I swung it. There was no music from the bell, only a discordant, dull clank. Then I held the bell only by the tiny handle at the top and swung it again. This time the bell swung free, and the joyous bell music sang gladly through the air, lovely bell music that has sung the songs of happiness and holiness all through the ages. People are like bells. Without freedom, there is a discordance in life. With freedom, they can make their lives a beautiful symphony of happiness. Sia nsaarit Beatrice K. Ekman Vainly I hold the summer to my heart, Striving to keep the fragrance of the rose, But, like the birds, the joys so soon depart And over summer's glory... Autumn blows. Strange that a memory can grow so dim Illusive as a dream... The face of him. Conte Lillian S. Knudson There's a quiet around this morning, And it's only half past nine. You can even hear the ticking of the clock! It's an empty kind of quiet, Part the neighbors' and part mine— School's begun! There's a rush of babbling voices, And it's only half past three; The walks are filled with hurrying, scurrying feet; It's a pair of eyes so shining, and Two arms held out to me— School's let out! Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 35—Nephi, Son of Helaman Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Helaman, chapter 5:5 through chapter 12) For Tuesday, December 6, 1955 Objective: To show that when we sacrifice and exercise faith in the Lord, he gives us power to accomplish great things. Missionary Activities of Nephi and Lehi Nephi and his brother Lehi were very much impressed with the instructions their father Helaman gave to them, in which he emphasized the need of their believing that Jesus Christ would come and tedeem mankind by means of his atoning sacrifice. 'This message loomed so large in the eyes of young Nephi and Lehi that Nephi had no difficulty in deciding to resign as chief judge and to devote all his energies to missionary work. (Read Helaman 5:5-12.) The people were ripening for destruction, for their laws had become corrupted. 'Those people who elected to do evil were far more numerous than those who chose to do right. In a representative form of government this trend signifies decadence. Page 624 For the purpose of correcting this condition, Nephi and Lehi knew that they must cast everything else aside and preach of the atonement of Christ. They started their work in the city Bountiful, proceeded to Gid, and Mulek, and from there to all the people of Nephi who were in the land southward. Then they traveled to Zarahemla to labor among the Lamanites. So forceful and cogent was the message of Nephi and Lehi among the Lamanites that they succeeded in baptizing 8,000 of them. From Zarahemla, Nephi and Lehi went to the land of Nephi to continue their work with the Lamanites. In the land of Nephi, they were committed to the same prison in which Ammon and his brethren had been incarcerated years before by the servants of King Limhi. They were confined without food for many days. LESSON DEPARTMENT Miraculous Conversion of the Lamanites Determined to slay them for their missionary activities, the Lamanites came to the prison. As they entered the prison they discovered that Nephi and Lehi. Were encircled about as if by fire, even insomuch that they durst not lay their hands upon them for fear lest they should be burned. Nevertheless, Nephi and Lehi were not burned and they were as standing in the midst of fire and were not burned (Helaman 5:23). The Lamanites watched in terror. Nephi and Lehi, recognizing that they were being divinely protected, admonished the Lamanites not to fear, for it was God who had shown them this power. Then the earth shook and the prison was overshadowed with a cloud of darkness. From above this cloud, all present heard a voice saying:... Repent ye, repent ye, and seek no more to destroy my servants whom I have sent unto you to declare good tidings (Helaman 5:29). (Read Helaman 5:30-33-) One among the crowd, Aminadab, a Nephite dissenter, saw the faces of Nephi and Lehi through the cloud of darkness. They shone even as the faces of angels, and were turned as if addressing heavenly beings. At the request of Aminadab the multitude looked, and soon they were asking with whom Nephi and Lehi conversed, and what they, as Lamanites, might do to remove the cloud of darkness which overshadowed them. Aminadab called them to repentance and asked them to believe in Christ. The multitude prayed and soon the cloud was dispersed and they 625 were all encircled by a pillar of fire. The Spirit of the Lord descended upon them, and:... There came a voice unto them, yea, a pleasant voice, as if it were a whisper, saying: Peace, peace be unto you, because of your faith in my Well Beloved, who was from the foundation of the world (Helaman 5:46-47). The people saw the heavens open, and angels came down and ministered to the three hundred who were present. Intensive missionary activity on the part of many who were present on this occasion convinced most of the Lamanites of the truth. 'They laid down their weapons of war, and cast aside the hatred they had for the Nephites. 'They gave back to the Nephites the lands which rightfully belonged to them, and by twenty-nine B. C. The Lamanites were more righteous than the Nephites. In twenty-eight B. C. Nephi and Lehi went into the land northward to preach. They were assisted by many righteous Lamanites. 'The Nephites and Lamanites mingled freely with each other during this period. 'There was free commercial and social intercourse between the two peoples. Both groups were prosperous. 'The land south was called Lehi, and the land north was called Mulek, after the son of King Zedekiah, "... For the Lord did bring Mulek into the land north, and Lehi into the land south" (Helaman 6:10). Decline of Righteousness Among Nephites In twenty-six B. C., however, political and economic difficulties 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 arose. The people began to commit murder, to rob and to plunder to gain riches. He Gadianton band was revived. It was members of this band who had murdered the chief judge Cezoram. Organized crime soon flourished among the people, and a period of decadence set in among the Nephites. It was the Lamanites now who were the bearers of the truth. 'They succeeded in eradicating the Gadianton robbers from their midst, however the band grew to such power among the Nephites, that, by twenty-four B. C., it controlled the government. Because of wickedness among the Nephites in the land northward, Nephi returned from the land northward to Zarahemla. Government itself began to totter, and Nephi knew that he must undergird it with righteousness or it would collapse. His soul was filled with sorrow because of the wickedness of his people. Nephi Calls Nephites to Repentance Nephi entered a tower in his garden in Zarahemla and supplicated the Lord in sorrow for the wickedness of his people. (Read Helaman 7:7-9.) The pe