[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
Work ITleeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Poultry Selection and Preparation Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, December 13, 1955 OULTRY is one of the most versatile of all meats. According to the method of preparation, it may be served at any meal of the day, for party refreshments, packed lunches, and picnics. Today there is no off-season for poultry. One may serve superior quality fried chicken on Christmas Day just as well as on the Fourth of July. Roast chicken or turkey may appear on the summer picnic menu just as well as for Christmas dinner. Stewed Chicken Because of the variety of ways in which poultry may be prepared, it need never become unpopular. Stewed chicken is no doubt the method most frequently used. The 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955. Name is misleading, for a good cook never "'stews" chicken. Rather, she covers the meat, which has been cut into serving portions, with hot water and cooks it slowly. Once the water reaches the boiling point, the heat is reduced so that thereafter the water bubbles gently, but does not boil. Onions, carrots, celery leaves or seeds, or peppercorns, and salt are added to the water according to individual taste. Check for tenderness by pressing a_ fork against the meat rather than into the meat so there will be no loss of the natural juices from the meat. Chicken cooked in this way may be served at once with the thickened gravy and dumplings or mashed potatoes, or may be chilled and served in innumerable ways later. If it is not to be served immediately, place the chicken and stock in a mixing bowl or an enamel pan for cooling. Cold Chicken or Turkey Cooked chicken or turkey, cut from the bones, is delicious for sandwiches, either sliced or ground and seasoned with pickle, salad dressing, minced green onion, or finely chopped celery. Chicken or turkey salad is a favorite party refreshment when served with hot rolls. Celery cut into small pieces is an ideal base for this salad. Casseroles Casseroles rate high in popularity fer company meals, both with the cook and guests. The fowl may be cooked well in advance of the occasion and kept in the refrigerator. Other ingredients of the casserole, of which wild or brown rice, or noodles, are favorites, may also be cooked ahead of time. Only a few minutes are then required for combining all ingredients before placing the dish in a moderate oven for final cooking. Recipes for such casseroles may be found in most cook books. Chicken Pie Another good Sunday dinner or party dish is chicken pie. Remove the cooked chicken from the bone and cut it into one or two-inch pieces. Season the chicken stock, if necessary, then thicken it. Carefully blend precooked and diced carrots, peas, or celery with the chicken and gravy. Or fill your baking dish with alternating layers of chicken and vegetables, then pour the gravy over them. Cover the dish with hot mashed potatoes or small baking powder biscuits. If a potato topping is used, have the other ingredients piping hot first, then place the pie into the oven just long enough for the potatoes to brown lightly. Baking powder biscuits require a hot oven for baking. Filling should be preheated to near the boiling point before the biscuits are placed on top, since baking them requires only a few minutes. Chicken Fricassee Chicken fricassee might be called pot-roasted or braised meat. 'The pieces of chicken are dipped into flour, then browned in a_ small amount of hot fat, then they are put into a heavy cooking dish. A small amount of liquid is added and the chicken is simmered over low heat or in a slow (300°F) oven until tender. Herbs, such as sweet marjoram, thyme, celery leaves, or partsley may be added as desired. LESSON DEPARTMENT Frying Poultry Poultry to be fried may be dipped in crumbs, flour, cornmeal, or mixtures of all these, then slowly fried in fat about one inch deep in a heavy pan with a well-fitting lid, or it may be dipped in a batter and fried in deep fat held at 370°F. It should be at least partially precooked by steaming when the latter method is used. Broiling Poultry Broiling is a less frequently used method, but one that is fast increasing in popularity. Chicken to be broiled should first be steamed. 'To steam chicken in a roaster, pour about two cups of hot water into the pan. Place the chicken on a rack in the pan so it does not touch the water. Cover and leave in a moderately hot oven (375°F) for from thirty minutes to one hour. To broil, place the chicken about five inches below the source of heat on an oiled broiling rack with the skin side away from the heat. 'Turn each piece four times during cooking, basting and salting each time. Allow about thirty minutes for broiling. Roast Poultry Roast chicken and turkey are long-time favorites. Roast birds are generally considered incomplete without dressing. Rub the inside cavity lightly with salt, then fill it 631 about three-fourths full with your favorite dressing. 'This allows space for the dressing to swell as it cooks. Close the openings with sewing or the use of skewers. With a soft string bind the legs and wings to the body for uniform cooking and even browning. Place the bird on a rack in a shallow pan, breast down. Cover the top and sides of the bird with a cloth onto which a small amount of fat has been spread. Place in a 325°F oven and roast until tender. An oven as low as 250°F roasts the bird evenly and to a beautiful golden brown, but requires about fifty per cent more cooking time. If the skin becomes dry during roasting, pour some of the drippings in the pan over it or put a little more fat onto the cloth. Whichever way you may prepare your bird, moderate to low heat is economical for both meat and fuel, and the results are better flavor, better texture, less shrinkage and more attractive serving. Turkey may be prepared in exactly the same ways as chicken. It is often a better buy than chicken because of the higher percentage of meat to bone. Activity for the Class Leaders Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of cooking with aluminum foil.