[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
Sixty    Ljears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woiiiaii's  Exponent,  September  i,  and  September  15,  1895 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
WOMEN  IN  CIVIC  AFFAIRS:  Woman  herself  must  not  eease  her  efforts  in 
her  own  behalf,  or  in  behalf  of  her  own  sex;  beeause  it  must  be  apparent  to  all,  that 
although  women  may  be  intellectually  bright,  vigorous  and  active,  yet  they  lack  the 
training  and  discipline  men  get  from  association,  political  and  otherwise,  which  brings 
them  in  contact  with  each  other,  and  the  public  at  large.  Women  have  occupied  a 
much  narrower  sphere  heretofore,  and  necessarily  their  views  and  opinions  on  questions 
of  state  .  .  .  will  require  time  to  mature.  And  the  real  method  of  arriving  at  excellence 
.  .  .  will  be  by  practice. 
— Editorial 
HYGIENIC  COOKERY:  Fruit  should  compose  a  large  part  of  our  diet.  Grapes, 
apples,  peaches  and  a  great  many  of  our  excellent  fruits  are  more  nutritious  in  their 
natural  condition;  they  should  be  thoroughly  matured  but  not  over  ripe  ....  Much  of 
our  fruit  can  be  bottled  fresh  or  dried  for  winter  use  ....  Vegetables  are  also  whole- 
some but  should  be  cooked  properly.  They  should  be  perfectly  tender  but  not  over- 
done. Steaming  or  baking  is  preferable  for  most  vegetables,  because  their  fine  flavors 
are  thus  more  easily  retained  and  their  food  value  suffers  less  diminution  .... 
—J.  S.  W. 
A  Love  Song  to  a  Wife 
We  have  been  lovers  for  forty  years; 
O,  dear  cheeks,  faded  and  worn  with  tears, 
What  an  eloquent  story  of  love  you  tell! 
Your  roses  are  dead,  yet  I  love  you  well! 
O,  pale  brow,  shrined  in  soft,  silvery  hair; 
Crowned  with  life's  sorrow  and  lined  with  care. 
Let  me  read  by  the  light  of  the  stars  above 
Those  dear,  dear  records  of  faithful  love  .... 
— Quiver 
LADIES  MEETING  IN  THE  FOURTEENTH  WARD,  SALT  LAKE  CITY: 
Counselor  E.  J.  Stevenson  presiding  ....  Counselor  Stevenson  said.  What  a  privilege 
to  have  remained  in  the  courts  on  high  to  come  forth  in  this  day,  when  the  Gospel  of 
the  Son  of  God  has  been  restored  in  this  momentous  age  ....  we  are  surrounded  by 
temptations,  let  us  make  the  best  of  our  opportunity,  be  as  towers  of  strength  round 
our  children;  live  near  to  the  Lord;  teach  by  example;  we  should  strive  to  overcome  our 
weaknesses.  One,  today,  another  tomorrow.  I  wish  young  mothers  would  meet  with 
us.  I  come  to  be  fed  and  to  gain  strength  ....  We  can  learn  many  good  things  from 
books,  but  we  learn  more  by  listening  to  the  experiences  of  others,  who  have  passed 
through  trials  and  borne  them  patiently  .... 
— Vilate  R.  Young,  Sec. 
Page  586

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
nVETA  GULP  HOBBY,  second 
woman  Cabinet  Member  in  the 
Nation's  history,  resigned  as  of  Aug- 
ust 1,  1955.  She  was  the  first  per- 
son to  hold  the  portfoho  of  HeaUh, 
Education,  and  Welfare.  President 
Eisenhower  accepted  her  resigna- 
tion in  an  extraordinary  public  cere- 
mony in  the  White  House.  Mrs. 
Hobby  expressed  ''regret"  and  ''a 
deep  sense  of  sadness"  at  leaving 
the  government  service.  President 
Eisenhower  praised  her  for  her  wise 
counsel,  calm  confidence,  her  con- 
cern for  people  everywhere,  and  her 
warm  heart,  as  well  as  for  her  tal- 
ents. In  World  War  II  Mrs.  Hob- 
by served  as  head  of  the  Women's 
Army  Corps.  She  is  retiring  be- 
cause of  the  illness  of  her  husband, 
former  Governor  William  P.  Hobbv 
of  Texas. 
lyrARIA  MENEGHINI  GALLAS 
at  thirty  is  one  of  the  world's 
great  sopranos.  Born  in  New  York, 
she  went  to  live  in  Greece  at  thir- 
teen, and  was  engaged  by  the  La 
Scala  Opera  Company  in  Milan  at 
twenty-three.  After  refusing  many 
offers  to  sing  in  America,  she  final- 
ly made  her  debut  in  this  country 
with  the  Chicago  Opera  Company 
last  November  and  was  a  sensation- 
al success  with  both  audiences  and 
critics. 
TyjARGARET  BOURKE- 
WHITE,  one  of  the  country's 
best  photographers,  has  spent  twen- 
ty-five years  photographing  for  mag- 
azines. She  has  been  shot  at  and 
risked  her  life  many  times.  She  has 
worked  eight  miles  up  in  the  air, 
two  miles  down  in  an  African  gold 
mine,  out  on  the  edge  of  a  gargoyle 
on  the  roof  of  the  Chrysler  Building 
in  New  York,  in  the  midst  of  the 
bloody  struggle  in  the  hills  of  Italy, 
in  Russia,  and  in  the  May  Day  riots 
in  Tokyo  —  altogether  in  forty-five 
countries. 
D 
B 
R.  MARIA  HAGEMEYER,  of 
Bonn,  West  Germany,  is  the 
first  woman  judge  ever  to  be  ap- 
pointed in  Germany.  She  is  a 
specialist  in  family  law  and  was  im- 
pressed during  her  recent  visit  to  the 
United  States  with  American  laws 
relating  to  the  family. 
IRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to:  Mrs.  Matilda  Pet- 
erson, Morgan,  Utah,  one  hundred; 
Mrs.  Flora  K.  Rich,  Morgan,  Utah, 
ninety-six;  Mrs.  Anna  J.  Larson,  Lo- 
gan, Utah,  ninety-five;  Mrs.  Gunda 
Olsen,  Morgan,  Utah,  ninety-four; 
Mrs  .  Annie  Cooper,  San  Diego, 
California,  ninety-three;  Mrs.  Aman- 
da Browning,  Blackfoot,  Idaho, 
ninety-one;  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Drown, 
Midvale,  Utah,  ninety. 
Paga  587

EDITOWAL 
VOL.  42 
SEPTEMBER  1955 
NO.  9 
Kytnxiouslq  ibnaacied  in  a   C/ood  C< 
nxiously  Kongage 
^^WHAT  did  he  talk  about?" 
''Oh,  the  same  old  thing  he 
always  talks  about,"  was  the  an- 
swer. '1  know  what  he  is  going  to 
say  almost  before  he  says  it." 
Yet  in  spite  of  boredom,  one  of 
the  very  best  ways  to  learn  is  by 
repetition.  A  great  musician  once 
gave  his  secret  for  memorization. 
He  learned  a  piece  once,  and  forgot 
it.  He  learned  it  a  second  time, 
and  again  forgot  it.  But  he  found 
that  when  he  had  learned  it  a  third 
time,  it  became  his  own. 
That  night  in  1820  when  Moroni 
appeared  to  the  boy  Prophet,  he 
delivered  the  Lord's  message  not 
once,  or  twice,  but  three  times  dur- 
ing the  night;  and  the  next  morn- 
ing he  related  it  to  him  still  a 
fourth  time. 
Sisters  in  the  Church  who  have 
not  given  their  allegiance  to  Relief 
Society  may  tire  of  hearing  about 
it  repeatedly.  They  may  close  their 
ears  to  the  fact  that  for  at  least  two 
reasons  Relief  Society  is  the  greatest 
organization  for  women  in  the 
whole  world.  First,  because  it  was 
founded  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord  for  the  development  and 
blessing  of  his  daughters;  and  sec- 
ond, because  it  is  guided  and  direct- 
ed by  the  Priesthood  of  God. 
But  some  day  the  great  majority 
of  Latter-day  Saint  women  may  be- 
come convair-rted  to  Relief  So- 
ciety, as  did  the  dear  old  Scotch 
grandmother  to  the  observance  of 
P-QQe  588 
^  ause 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  When  she 
was  in  her  eighties,  her  family  was 
astonished  to  hear  her  refuse  tea, 
which  she  had  drunk  all  her  life. 
''But,  Grandmother,"  one  grand- 
daughter exclaimed,  "you  have  been 
taught  the  Word  of  Wisdom  all 
your  life.  Why  would  you  stop 
drinking  tea  now?"  "Oh,"  she  re- 
plied, "but  Fm  convair-rted." 
Conversion  to  any  truth  and  al- 
legiance to  it  may  take  years  in 
some  people's  lives,  but  sometime, 
with  repetition,  it  may  awaken  an 
echo  in  the  inner  consciousness  of 
an  individual  and  win  adherence. 
The  summer  has  passed,  and  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  women  are  again  faced 
with  the  question  as  to  how  they 
will  spend  their  available  time  out- 
side their  homes  during  the  coming 
months.  Some  will  seek  study 
groups  along  lines  of  their  particular 
interests.  Others  will  spend  their 
time  in  worthy  community  inter- 
ests, while  still  others  may  fritter 
away  much  of  their  time  in  useless 
pursuits.  Yet  Relief  Society  has 
treasures  of  knowledge,  of  sustain- 
ing faith,  and  of  humanitarian  in- 
terests to  fit  the  inclination  of  any 
Latter-day  Saint  sister  who  would 
find  them.  Relief  Society  contains 
cultural  and  spiritual  values  found 
in  no  other  woman's  organization, 
values  which  will  set  a  woman  far 
upon  the  road  to  eternal  progres- 
sion. 
The  Lord  has  instructed  all  his 
children: