[Vol22 | May 1935 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Cooperation in the Home]

ONE of the chief objects of the Relief Society is to work for family solidarity and the permanency of the home. One method of attaining this is a better understanding and more cooperation in the home itself. There are many phases to this subject and many forms of helpful and necessary cooperation, but in my brief remarks I shall mention only one—financial cooperation.

Many of the breaks and failures in family life are the result of lack of understanding in financial matters. The husband and wife should be partners in financial affairs. The wife should know what the income is, and together they should plan for the spending of it. Where a man withholds this knowledge from his wife, how can he expect her to be as interested as she otherwise would be? In such instances through lack of knowledge she may spend unwisely, and financial disaster may follow. Any woman endowed with good common sense should be willing to live within the family income, but how can she do this if she does not know what it is?

When financial reverses come, a man frequently, in his desire to shield his wife from worry, fails to acquaint her with the situation; and she goes on living on the same plane when she could, if she knew conditions, make curtailments on every hand.

Every family should have a budget, and where there is a definite income there should be family allowances. A disposition to economize and save on the part of the individual members of the family generally follows the allowance system.

The family budget jointly agreed upon insures a square deal for everybody concerned and is conducive to unselfishness. Where family finances and the budget are discussed by the family group and the members all have a part in the discussion and decisions, there is general satisfaction. In the average farm home, while there is not a regular monthly cash income there are still ways in which husband and wife may cooperate in financial matters.

When children grow up and earn money of their own, they should be taught that as long as they are a part of the household they should help to maintain it. Even a very small amount from the earnings of the child contributed by him towards the upkeep of the home helps with expenses, and in addition will develop his responsibility and give him a feeling of importance because he is doing his part. A business understanding with the child when he first begins to earn will save arguments and misunderstandings later. A boy or girl should not be encouraged in thinking that because he is earning money it is his to spend, often recklessly, regardless of the needs of other members of the family.

I am not unmindful of the fact that many young people are striving desperately to earn an education that will later fit them for the career their hearts are set upon, and this is a worthy ambition which should receive encouragement at home; but at the same time the boy or girl who unselfishly does his part in family responsibility is not likely to be found among those who later in life are willing to shift their family obligations to other people.

Relief Society women in their association with one another have an excellent opportunity to discuss these matters and to work for family cooperation and understanding.

I want to take this opportunity of again expressing my grateful appreciation for the privilege that has been mine these many years of association with the women of the Relief Society. I know of no finer women, and I know that participation in the activities of the Relief Society will make of us better home makers, better citizens, better women.