[Vol22 | May 1935 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Present Challenge to Women]

THE Relief Society Building for Better Living." This aim, expressed as the central theme of the Conference, is but a re-statement of the objective of the organization, now nearly a century old.

Literally speaking, humanity is today at the crossroads, and the choice of paths is the most important the world has ever had to make. Those best informed tell us that civilization itself rests upon the decision.

From the beginning woman has personified the world's ideals. The finest conceptions of the human mind have always been expressed in feminine form. The Fates, who controlled the life and destiny of man were women; the Graces, from whom came all that is lovely in character, were women; the Muses, from whom came all music, poetry and art, were women. All the noblest aspirations of the human mind were preserved in womanly form—Temperance, Justice, Liberty, Peace, even Wisdom. The earth, through all time and in all languages has been the universal mother. Woman has glorified and sanctified the whole world through the Holy Motherhood of Mary.

In the present crisis, when the financial and industrial world is uprooted, women are concerned quite as vitally as are men, and cannot under-estimate the results of these gigantic problems. But what is of vastly more importance to women than anything of a purely economic nature is the result of certain destructive forces at work in the world today. Here are presented real dangers, which threaten to destroy everything that has made human life sacred and beautiful—the disintegration of the family, the disregard of the marriage covenant, and religion thrown into the discard. Is it not in these fields that woman's influence is pre-eminent? If these most holy institutions are threatened, is it not a hostile invasion of woman's own realm? Can there be a more definite objective for building for better living than to prepare to resist such sinister powers?

Relief Society women are not skeptics, but believers, nevertheless we must face things as they are, and organize to defend our ideals. Far more important than natural resources or national wealth is the question of how family life is lived. With the added opportunities there can be no lowering of standards; the home is woman's own place, and marriage the most sacred human relationship. Religion is the spirit which giveth light. Our homes and our Church embody for us the finest traditions of the past, and all that we are, and aim to be. That we preserve them in their purity and strength; that we consecrate our lives to their service—this is our challenge.