[Vol22 | May 1935 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson Department]

With sincere congratulations and with all good wishes, I am "Faithfully yours, "Jane Addams." March 26, 1935. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (For First Week in October) LESSON I CHOOSING THE FIRST PRESIDENCY AND THE TWELVE 1.
Review of Last Lesson. It is only fitting at the commencement of a new year's work that the closing lesson of last year should be briefly reviewed. The lesson title was "Zion's Camp," and the subject matter was concerned chiefly with a description of the organization and movements of a group of men, under the leadership of Joseph Smith, brought together for the apparent purpose of going to the assistance of their persecuted brethren in Missouri. The journey from Kirtland to western Missouri (only slightly shorter than that made by the Mormon pioneers from Winter Quarters to Salt Lake City) was a long and trying one, full of hardships and temptations.
Complaint and dissatisfaction were by no means unknown. Indeed, some of the brethren must have tried the Prophet's patience almost to the breaking point. But like the great leader that he was, he led the Camp steadily forward, and on the 22nd day of July, 1834, six weeks after the march began, he and his party encamped at Fishing River, only a short distance from the journey's end.
Three days later, at Rush Creek, the Camp was separated into small groups and disbanded, doubtless much to the disappointment of some of its members. On the third of July, 1834, a discharge was ordered given to every man of the Camp who had proved himself faithful, certifying to this fact and granting him permission to return home. 2. At Fishing River, the Prophet received a revelation in which the Lord declared that even though not all of the members of the Camp had obeyed his commandments, yet "Inasmuch as there are those who have hearkened unto my words, I have prepared a blessing and an endowment for them, if they continue faithful. I have heard their prayers, and will accept their offering; and it is expedient in me that they should be brought thus far for a trial of their faith. (D. And C. 105:18, 19) The manner in which these promises were fulfilled is pointed out in a later section of this lesson. 3. By way of parenthesis, it should also be observed that if the members of Zion's Camp and the Church generally had kept the commandments of God, his people would already have been redeemed, as witness the following: "Were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now. But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, and are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom; and Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom. My people must needs be chastened until they 318 learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer.
Therefore it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait for a little season, for the redemption of Zion." (D. And C. 105:2-13) 4.
Selection and Ordination of the First Presidency. It will be recalled that as early as April 6, 1830, at the time of the organization of the Church, Joseph Smith was accepted by the unanimous vote of those present as their teacher and leader in the Kingdom of God. At this time he was ordained an elder by Oliver Cowdery, who in turn was similarly ordained by the Prophet. (See History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 75) If any doubt exists concerning the dignity and power of Joseph's calling, the word of the Lord touching this matter should quickly dispel it. The Lord directed that in the record that was to be kept in the Church Joseph was to be designated as "a seer, a translator, a prophet, an apostle of Jesus Christ, an elder of the church through the will of God the father, and the Grace of your Lord Jesus Christ." (D. And C. 21:1) Speaking to the Church concerning Joseph, the Lord further said: "Thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; for his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith.' To those who thus heed his anointed prophet the Lord promised: "The gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name's glory." (See D. And C. 21:4-6) Truly a most marvelous promise! 5.
Some three years later on the eighteenth of March, 1833, the First Presidency of the Church was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE organized with Joseph Smith, president, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, counselors.
This action was the result of a revelation received ten days earlier, in which the Lord not only reaffirmed the Prophet's position as leader of the Church, but designated certain individuals as his aides.
Speaking to Joseph Smith the Lord said: "Thou art blessed from henceforth that bear the keys of the kingdom given unto you; which kingdom is coming forth for the last time. Verily I say unto you, the keys of this kingdom shall never be taken from you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come; nevertheless, through you shall the oracles be given to another, yea, even unto the Church." Again: "Verily I say unto you, thy brethren, 'Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, their sins are forgiven them also, and they are accounted as equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom." (D. And C. 90:2-4, 6) Indeed, a year earlier, Frederick G.
Williams was called to be a counselor to Joseph Smith in the "Presidency of the High Priesthood." (See D. And C. 81:1-3) 6. The organization of the First Presidency was effected at a meeting of the High Priests at Kirtland, Ohio; held in the school room of the Prophets. Of this the Prophet says: 'I laid my hands on Brothers Sidney and Frederick, and ordained them to take part with me in holding the keys of this last kingdom, and to assist in the Presidency of the High Priesthood, as my _ counselors." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 334) It is interesting to observe that slightly less than two years later, December 5, 1834, Oliver Cowdery, the "second elder" of the church, was ordained by the Prophet as assistant president whose duty was "'to assist in presiding over the whole Church, and to officiate in the LESSON DEPARTMENT absence of the President, according to his rank and appointment, viz.: President Cowdery, first; President Rigdon, second; and President Williams, third, as they were severally called." (Essentials in Church History, p. 180). The minutes of the meeting at which this ordination took place makes the explanation that prior to that time Oliver Cowdery had not been able to act in his calling as second elder in the Church because of necessary absence in Missouri and, accordingly, that others had been appointed while he was away. (See History of the Church, Vol. II, p. 176) 7.
Calling the Twelve. As pointed out at the beginning of this lesson, the year 1834 witnessed the memorable march of Zion's Camp from Ohio to Missouri, seemingly for the purpose of giving aid to their persecuted brethren. As measured, however, by its limited accomplishments in this direction, the undertaking might easily be regarded as a failure. But when viewed in the light of a preparatory training for more important responsibilities ahead, it may properly be looked upon as one of the most important events in the early history of the church. As witness the following: 8.
Slightly less than one year after Zion's Camp was abandoned, a meeting was called, by direction of the Prophet, of all its members, together with such others as were disposed to attend. The meeting was held at Kirtland, Ohio, February 14, 1835, in "the new school house under the printing press." The Prophet, who presided, called upon all the members of the Camp to take their seats together in a part of the building.
After recounting the hardships endured by the members of the Camp and commending those who were faithful in the performance of their duty, the Prophet explained at some 319 length that the meeting had been called by command of God primarily for the selection of the Twelve, which had been provided for as early as June of 1829. (See D. And C. 18:37) The meeting was then adjourned for one hour. 9.
After the meeting was reconvened, the Prophet explained that the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon would each pray in turn and then proceed to the selection of the Twelve.
After the Witnesses had united in prayer, they were blessed by the laying on of hands of the First Presidency.
According to instruction, they then proceeded to the selection of the Twelve, as follows, named in the order of their selection: Lyman E. Johnson Brigham Young. Heber C. Kimball. Orson Hyde. David W. Patten. Luke S. Johnson. William E. M'Lellin. John F. Boynton. Orson Pratt. 10. William Smith. 11. Thomas B. Marsh. 12. Parley P. Pratt. 10.
They were later rearranged in order of seniority according to age as follows: 1. Thomas B. Marsh. 2. David W. Patten. 3. Brigham Young. 4.Heber C. Kimball. 5. Orson Hyde. 6. William E. M'Lellin. 7. Parley P. Pratt. 8. Luke S. Johnson. 9. William Smith. 10. Orson Pratt. 11. John F. Boynton. 12. Lyman E. Johnson. 11. The brethren thus chosen were ordained by the Three Witnesses 320 and the blessings confirmed by the First Presidency. (For a complete discussion of the entire proceedings, see History of the Church, Vol. II, pp. 190-200) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Why is the strength of an individual's' integrity best determined when he is not aware that the test is being made?
Give illustrations. 2.
Enumerate numerous hardships encountered by the members of Zion's Camp. 

 .
Recite in detail the conditions under which Joseph Smith was ordained the first elder of the Church. 4.
Show to what extent the word of God revealed through Joseph Smith is binding upon the Latter-day Saints. 5.
What became of Oliver Cowdery? Sidney Rigdon? Frederick G. Williams? 6. Why was it very fitting that the Twelve should be chosen from among the "'members of Zion's Camp'? 7.
What are the principal duties of the Twelve?