[Vol22 | May 1935 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: General Session]
to be such that will cause our people to lay aside what is unworthy and bring them nearer to God. The music constitutes part of the divine worship and should receive just as respectful attention as that given to the speakers. God should be worshipped with the best music we are able to offer, both as to the material we use and the manner of presenting it. Choristers and organists should consider themselves servants of the Lord, and their offices should be filled with a prayerful desire to have music function as one of the saving influences in the lives of the people. Let them be like the minstrels of old to bring solace and comfort in our every day life so that our souls may be open to the true influence of music and drink in its message with understanding hearts.
GENERAL SESSION Thursday Afternoon
Counselor Kate M. Barker
"Nothing is too wonderful to be true."
When research began to reveal the wonders of the universe, Michael Faraday, the physicist, said, "Nothing is too wonderful to be true." Today, as the radio brings us opera from thousands of miles away, we cannot help but say as he did, "Really, nothing is too wonderful to be true." But marvelous as the world is, it was planned for man and his development. Our Father in Heaven planned a world where character could be developed—a world of rigid law where human beings have freedom of choice, a world in which people have to live and work together. The strength of character which our Father in Heaven wishes us to acquire because it leads to greater joy, can only be gained by living and working together. So our big problem today is, as it has always been, one of human relations. The outcomes of our efforts to solve the problem are brought to us daily and, since the unusual is news, we hear more of the failures than of the successes. They are proclaimed by radio and by the press. They receive undue emphasis by "debunking" biographers. They become the prevailing topic of conversation; and we develop the tendency to decry the faults rather than to appreciate the virtues of our fellowmen. Our vision of the divine possibilities of the soul has been dimmed. With short-sighted, imperfect ideals, our realization too has fallen short. Human relationships have become discordant. The sin of the majority is not one of delinquency but of being satisfied with mediocrity. We need a sublimer outlook on the possibilities of humanity. Our education is of value only so far as it increases our consciousness of the divine potentialities of our souls. We marvel at the beauty of nature, but the most wonderful thing in the world is the capacity of the human soul for friendship, kindness and loyalty. We have allowed the world to become poor in these virtues which make life so fine and beautiful, because they make for happy human relations. And yet these things which the world most needs are in the power of every human soul to give if he but will. The Relief Society holds a strategic position. It is the society of the mothers who instill ideals in the children, mould character, and thus shape the whole of society. Let each one of us resolve for the coming year to get a better vision of what we may be as revealed by the life of our Savior. Let us each be a little more honest in our thoughts and actions, take a little more time to be friendly, be a little more kind, a little more loyal to friends, leaders, and principles. If every Relief Society woman would do this in the home and inspire those in the home to practice it in the community, what a great spiritual force we could be, what a wonderful beginning of building a world where the best and highest in man's life would rule. And, from our efforts, the world might get the vision that in the realm of character and human relationships nothing is too wonderful to be true.
BUILDING FOR BETTER LIVING BY MEETING DAILY LIFE THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT OF PERSONALITY Hazel H. Greenwood—Member of General Board
"Personality is used to describe almost everything from the attributes of the soul to those of a new talcum powder. It means the individual as a whole his height and weight and loves and hates and blood pressure and reflexes, his smiles and hopes and bowed legs and enlarged tonsils. It means all that anyone is and all he is trying to become."— Menninger. Personality is made up of an inherited nucleus that is acted upon by various powerful social and economic influences that mold and shape into behavior patterns. The situation is the thing to which the personality has to adjust itself. The phase of life as it is presented at any particular moment. The rules of life are made up of laws that become more and more complicated as the demands of civilization increase. If we might always meet the same situations, life would be less difficult, but new situations are constantly arising that call for new adjustments. "Life sets the conditions, man must do the fitting. Fortune is the great scene shifter and from one act to another in the drama we call life, the actor must adjust to his part. Nothing endures forever, times change, conditions alter. Life is not one voyage but a succession of ventures. The Greek philosophers say we never dip in the same stream twice." This process of adjustment to life is the art of living. A well integrated personality is able to meet life's changing fortunes. It may not be easy. He may have to change the situation or he may change himself and he can do both. By one means and another he can manage successfully. We hear little of the person who meets his difficulties with faith and courage. He says little about it. We see mostly those who have failed to meet their situations. The ability to carry on in spite of discouragements and misfortune demonstrates strong healthy personalities. We know that no one can have a mind and a mental life that is completely in harmony. We are always experiencing conflicts. The mind becomes a battlefield with emotions and forces drawn against each other. Conflict means struggle and friction. The happy person is one who has these conflicts reduced to the minimum, for conflict is painful. The successful individual is the one who has his life so adjusted that instead of wearing himself out by anxiety over personal problems he
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
is able to apply his energy to the lines of successful endeavor outside himself. To meet and overcome conflicts we must recognize their existence and plan our actions and desires clearly and effectively. To be able to face the facts of life, to view ourselves objectively and to really see ourselves as others see us without rationalization or self-deception is truly an art. We all like to forget the unpleasant and painful experiences of life. Some one has said, "Forgetting should be the training of education. The capacity to forget is more important than the capacity to remember. By this we do not mean to forget where we have laid our spectacles, or to pay the grocery man, or to study our Relief Society lesson, but to be able to put out of our minds unpleasant things that are devastating
295
to our personalities. To be able to turn aside from events and situations that arise in our consciousness to vex and harass us. If we are disappointed in having our wishes gratified we instinctively turn to other things to compensate ourselves. Personality is rich according to its many interests. Variety enriches life. There should be an improvement of self, a reaching out for new contacts and opportunity for enrichments. Our organization gives opportunity of developing and maintaining a healthy personality. It comprises the fundamental elements of normal living, spirituality, companionship, recreation, forgetting of self through service to others. May we be able to continue to adjust our lives to the situations of life with courage and hope.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY TODAY Emeline Y. Nebeker Member of General Board
Believing that "The Glory of God is Intelligence," the Relief Society from its earliest days encouraged study; however, it was not until 1914 that the General Board outlined a uniform course. In this year the Bulletin was issued, twelve lessons being printed for the year. A comparison of the first month's lessons in the Bulletin, and the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine for March, 1935, shows, in the main, a remarkable similarity. In the Bulletin we have: First Meeting— Current Topics, Local, National and International; Second Meeting— Genealogy; Third Meeting—Home Ethics: Civic Pride, 20 minutes; Home Gardening for women, 20 minutes; Fourth Meeting—Literature, 30 minutes; Art and Architecture, 10 minutes. The lessons in the last Magazine are: First Meeting—1:15 p. M. Teachers' Topic; 2 p. M. Theology. Second Meeting —Work and Business. Third Meeting—Literature. Fourth Meeting— Social Service. Both stress the importance of the work of the day. Both have the underlying thought that if we are to gain knowledge "the greatest of all time is today; it is the algebraic sum of all our yesterdays, and holds the promise of all our tomorrows." But always both emphasize the fact that the association with Relief Society members strengthens our faith and helps us to strive harder to keep the two great commandments, the first: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind;" and the second: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself."
 
VISION Mary C. Kimball—Member of General Board
Joseph Smith had vision as to the inner urges or impulses of women when he organized the Relief Society. He said, "This charitable Society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. * * * And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." On that prophetic and inspirational utterance and with divine power, the organization was effected and has continued to go forth fulfilling its great destiny.
Saving souls is one of the most important works God has given to His children. In the Doctrine and Covenants He tells us that if we labor all our days and save but one soul that great shall be our joy with that soul in the kingdom of our Father. In the Relief Society souls are saved by teaching correct principles, by feeding spiritual food in prayer and testimony and study of the Word of God, and by giving opportunities to serve.
Each officer and member needs vision to carry on her work.
Each needs that inner light that shall guide and direct her into doing the best possible thing in the best possible way. It was said of old, "Where there is no vision the people perish," and Relief Society organizations, if not officered by women having inner light to guide and direct them, will not fulfil their destiny and will lag behind the other organizations.
Every officer and member needs to keep in touch with the fast changing events of her day. She should duly value the past, give to the present its meed of attention, and be ready to make needed adjustments for the future.
Visiting teachers require vision to see and to understand the ones they visit that they may minister to each one according to her needs. It is necessary for the presiding officers not only to meet the present opportunities but they should seek for the possibilities greater than they are able to attain to today.
Every officer and teacher should cultivate the seeing eye and the understanding heart that she may ever see the best way of doing the work assigned to her and see greater possibilities in the future for achievement. She who lives up to the light she has received today, will tomorrow have greater vision. To the one who has vision, nothing can discourage or daunt for long and although few see great distances ahead, to everyone is given light for one or more steps ahead.
Just as the inventor, the landscape gardener, the architect, in his vision sees what he is trying to invent, how the garden will look, how the building when completed will appear, so everyone who has anything to do with saving souls must see the possibilities of each of God's children and with this light she will not be discouraged even though the achievement seems small and progress slow.
 
THE CHURCH IN A CHANGING WORLD Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
