[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon ment. Programs "should produce vibrant mental and social health." Parents, teachers, and _ children should be taught discrimination, and local distribution of available good entertainment should be assured. MB:. J. L. BLAIR BUCK, president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, on a recent trip to Japan, saw the Emperor open the Japanese Diet (legislative body), and through an interpreter she talked to five Japanese women members of the Diet. RS. LEONARD A. ROBBINS, ninety-three, of Salina, Utah, is believed to be the longest-married wife in the state. She has been wed for seventy-two years. N the autumn graduation of medical students from the University of Utah, a young woman received. The highest scholastic rating. Gwen Gleave, of Annabella, Sevier County, Utah, was honor student in a class of twenty-six men and four women. ELEN C. PAYNE, of Ogden, Utah, is one of three women in America to hold executive positions in the United States Forest Service. She is an assistant in the department of education. She helps to educate the public regarding the needs and methods of conservation and fire prevention.  VOL. 36 OQ > EDITORIAL m©
Full Tleasure, (Running Over Al the 107th birthday of Relief Society on March 17, all Relief Society members may view with justifiable pride and satisfaction the accomplishments of Relief Society during the past year. Above the level of a regular year's activity rises one accomplishment which will tower with greater significance with the passing of the decades. As in every year there were countless acts of sisterly love and devotion tendered the less fortunate and sorrowing. Long and arduous hours were spent in making clothing and processing food for saints residing in countries where living conditions continue to be meager. 'That charity which never faileth, the mainspring of the society, was fully made manifest. And, added to this service, a marvelous achievement was completed, one which the sisters of Relief Society have desired since the early days—to raise money for a Relief Society Building. This dream has, during the past year, seen fulfillment. The magnitude of the task which the sisters had set for themselves seemed at times well-nigh impossible of accomplishment. But, blessed with the approval of the First Presidency in this undertaking, Relief Society leaders throughout the world invoked the spirit of our Heavenly Father to enter into the hearts of the sisters for this great cause. 
The results have shown that these prayers have been answered in a marvelous way. The lonely widow, the young mother, the mature woman, the sister sitting in a thatched hut, the one huddling around a scant fire, the member dwelling in the warm climes of flowers, and the one living in the barren, icy wastelands—all joined hearts and hands to fulfill this dream of their beloved Relief Society. In addition to the half million dollars asked of them, nearly sixty additional thousand have been given by those whose hearts were inspired with love and overflowing with generosity to their cherished Relief Society. And, on this anniversary, the general board expresses its deep gratitude and appreciation to all members of Relief Society throughout the world. For your diligence and faithfulness you have been abundantly blessed and, inasmuch as full obedience is given to the instructions of the Priesthood which presides over Relief Society, and Relief Society members give unselfishly of themselves, rich blessings will continue to be poured out upon the sisters, and the women of the Church will find eternal joy. Such is the prayer of Sister Spafford and the general board from hearts filled with gratitude for the goodness and accomplishments of Relief Society members during the past year. M. C. S. TO THE FIELD Vlo She Importance of the Visiting Seachers Message OUR attention has been called to the fact that some visiting teachers are under the impression that since a report as to the delivery of the message in the homes is no longer required it is not necessary to present the message itself in the homes. Stake and ward presidents are requested to correct this impression and to emphasize the fact to the visiting teachers that the delivery of the message in the homes is a vital part of the visiting teaching program and its importance has in no way diminished even though a monthly report of this activity is not now required.