(To be continued) We Too, Follow the Star (A Christmas Sermon) By Claire Stewart Boyer AT this spiritual high tide of the earth it is meet that we who shepherd our flocks leave them for an hour, that we who may be called wise leave our observatories of wisdom to listen to divine voices singing "Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men." For no matter where or what our station there is for us a star of Faith that burns brighter than all other stars and we too are impelled to follow it. FOR those of us who are shepherds, who have led but simple lives, who have lived with the earth and the sky, unperplexed by what lay beyond, whose bodies have toiled willingly, whose imaginations have been cozily confined to the flames in our hearth fires, for us the journey across the desert has not been long nor arduous. Awe and wonder have held us, have kept us meek and believing. And when other bright stars have appeared on the horizon, near our brightest one, we have looked away and would not see, saying, "There should be no other star to outshine our star, therefore there is none." And when our eyes returned to our brightest star it seemed more glorious and we were safe! Thus to our hearts our faith has become a consolation and a peace. And "'blessed are they whose faith is absolute for they are at one with God." But the journey of the wise men is not so simple. For during the bright days they beguile the time with thought upon the universe and its meaning. And lo, in the midst of their dissertations, with the brightness of the sky upon them, the star of Faith is lost! With eager searching and keen discernment the star that men call Beauty becomes visible. And the wise men go happily on their way, worshiping Beauty which is so like the star of Faith. For the star of Beauty has the same youth and gladness and is the fairest substitute that heaven can claim for faith. But other wise men are more skeptical. They must plot the heavens with compass, rod and tape. And their disputations turn to argument and the skies become dark and stormy until no star can be seen. So looms a discontent and a weariness in the lives of the wise men who must have an answer to their doubts. And there are still other wise men who neither worship art nor science but who follow the star of Faith when the night is dark because there are no distractions of sight and sound. But in the day time their journey spins so merrily before them that they forget to look for the star and traveling their own free path, they lose the way. Some of these are brought back to the star by a brother with clearer vision, by a thought winging its glad course about the world, by a sudden circumstance. Have you seen a mother give her entire Christmas savings to buy the Good Book for her children?