"Beyond the Grey Corridors" By Lillie M. Dale When the weather was cold and stormy, Jim Gibbs paced the grey corridors of the County Infirmary. Corridors whose cement floors were no harder than many of the hearts of the men inmates. Human hearts, rock bound by adversity; overcome by evil; crushed by neglect or utterly friendless,—waiting within those grey walls to die. Clean shaven and neat in appearance, this old man never very talkative, passed the strange assembly day after day in the grey corridors without ever speaking. There was something the matter with all of these individuals, either mentally or physically or else they would not be there and Jim Gibbs did not care for their companionship. Often when wearied by his tramping, he would enter a long, narrow, bare looking room where there were eight or ten beds. Throwing himself down on his own bed, he would attempt to read the sport page of a local paper and it would end by his going to sleep. When summer came he was outdoors wandering about the grounds. The lawns were green and velvety, with rose bushes bordering the walks. The Infirmary was a credit to the city. It was situated on a busy street. Standing on the corner Jim Gibbs would listlessly watch the traffic. Everyone seemed in such a mad rush. Automobiles of all makes and descriptions went hurrying by. He saw the street cars plying to and fro from the city, wherein sat well dressed women and men beside the working class. He felt he was as much apart from that activity as if he did not exist. He had ceased to count the years since he had entered that cream brick institution. What did it matter? Bitter and benumbed with the deal life had given him, he was just waiting like the others to die. He didn't have a cent to his name. Trifles that would satisfy him now were beyond his reach. His resentment was intense and had he possessed the strength, his fury would have known no bounds. And with all this thinking that went on, Jim Gibbs did not once condemn himself for the situation. One afternoon a group of women came to the Infirmary. They were well gowned, sweet faced, kindly spoken women who had come to read to their less fortunate brothers and sisters. The last person to make her way slowly up the cement incline which is used these latter days instead of stairs, was a beautiful dark-eyed woman with a radiant smile. Noticing Jim Gibbs, who happened to be standing near the main entrance, she spoke to him in a silvery voice and asked him if he wouldn't join them in the chapel and listen to the reading. The man just shook his head. Out on a rose bordered walk another day Jim Gibbs encountered the lady with the radiant smile. "We are taking our friends for a long automobile ride this afternoon," she explained. "Wouldn't you like to go?" "With pleasure, lady, thank you." Seated in a handsome car with other inmates he leaned back against the soft cushions and on the long swift ride, he forgot all about the grey corridors, his penniless and friendless condition and the utter hopelessness of his life. BEYOND THE GREY CORRIDOR His old eyes could not take in all that was to be seen, nor could he remember where they were taken, but that gliding, even, swift motion filled him with delight. For days afterward he dwelt on the pleasure of that ride. He did not talk to anyone about it, it was not his way, but the monotony was broken, he had at least escaped the grey corridors. Before the summer was over, other rides were enjoyed and after that Jim Gibbs met with the old folks to listen to the reading. The Superintendent of the Infirmary was a just and upright man who had held that position for many years as there had been no political changes. He knew each inmate personally and knew their past history, all but that of silent Jim Gibbs, who gave out nothing. Many years ago, the day before Christmas, a desperate criminal, later apprehended, had been sought by the police of the city. They had searched every nook and corner within the business section, they had combed the haunts of vice and crime, but failed to find their man. Toward evening Christmas eve, two motorcycle policemen had ridden to the outskirts of the city. Riding up to an unpainted, dilapidated shack with broken windows and having the appearance of having been deserted for many years they cautiously pushed open the front door. It sagged on its hinges. With their flash lights and guns ready for use, they crept silently into the dark room. There was no furniture, no fire, and the two windows with broken panes were stuffed with gunny sacks. It was bitterly cold in there. From a corner came moans and a wheezing coughing. Springing forward the officers turned their lights full on the miserable, pinched face of a man lying on a pile of old rubbish, blue with cold and shivering pitifully, his fever parched lips were unable to tell them anything. "Fooled again," exclaimed the tall policeman. The police patrol was called and Jim Gibbs was taken to the County hospital. Here he lingered for weeks with double pneumonia and when he had sufficiently recovered, yet weak and shaky, he was placed in the adjoining Infirmary, a county charge. This was all the Superintendent or anyone else thereabouts knew of him. It was approaching Christmas again. Jim Gibbs looked upon Christmas as a day foolishly observed and belonging solely to children. There was no deep significance in the story of the Christ child to him. At the Infirmary, church organizations and club members made it a day long to be remembered by the inmates. The dinner was all that had ever appealed to Jim. Gibbs. Never having any home ties or little ones to cherish made this sour old man regard the Yule tide as he did. But, somehow this coming Christmas he seemed different. He began by saluting the men whom he passed on his daily walks in the grey corridors, and the old men wondered what had come over their silent companion. He surprised himself by helping crippled Joe Lyon with some work assigned to him. Why hadn't he done this before, he thought? He even endeavored to comfort a recent arrival, a really fine old fellow who had been well off at one time and who had been placed in the Infirmary by an indifferent relative. He had a kindly feeling toward everyone and in return his associates assumed a different attitude toward him. How he wished he had fifty cents, with which he would buy the fine old gentleman a Christmas present. To be sure, fifty cents wasn't much, but it would buy some thing. Fifty cents! Thousands of dollars had passed through his hands. He seldom visited the city without car-fare; how could he? However, one day Joe Lyon invited him to help him reach the business district. Joe had been given some change, so he paid Jim Gibbs'transportation and the two old men visited the five and ten cent stores and spent several hours looking around. This had given him an idea of what could be purchased with fifty cents. He wondered how he could go about to earn fifty cents. He hadn't done a stroke of work for years, in fact he had made his livelihood in quite another way. He could ask one of the kind ladies who read to them, to give him the money. The lady with the radiant smile wouldn't refuse, he was sure she had plenty, but Jim Gibbs, being a curious mixture of independence and pride wouldn't beg. Ever since he had first listened to the reading, he had suffered from a keen sense of remorse. His misspent life, evil and fruitless passed before his mental vision like a review. Curious too, how some of the "movies" which were shown at the Infirmary every Monday evening, presented some phase like that of his past life. Humble and repentant Jim Gibbs was striving to "enter in." The lady of the radiant smile frequently visited the Infirmary between readings to bring some dainty to an old grandmother she was interested in and upon one occasion, she ran across Jim Gibbs. "Good afternoon, Mr. Gibbs,' she said pleasantly, "we are to have a wonderful program Christmas eve; of course you will be with us?" "Thank you, I am looking forward to it," he replied. Then just for an instant he gazed wistfully at the radiant lady. Did she understand? I think she did, because she paused, put her gloved hand into her elegant, leather purse and drew out two silver dollars. "Please accept this for Christmas shopping," she exclaimed impulsively. Jim Gibbs felt an unusual lump in his throat, his eyes filled with tears. What was the matter with him anyway? He brushed the tears away and thanked her hurriedly. "I am so glad you are coming so regularly to our meetings," declared the radiant lady, "I am sure to learn about God and His goodness, and man's relation to Him, will be a great help to you." "I never knew much about Him," replied Jim Gibbs. "I didn't seem to care to become acquainted. Everything isn't quite clear yet, so I want to ask you, how a man as wicked and useless as I have been, can ever be forgiven or find favor in His sight?" The radiant lady smiled one of her quick, beautiful smiles. "I am pleased that you have asked these questions, if that is what is troubling you," she responded earnestly, "you see all through the Bible, it tells us that there is a God, 'who forgiveth all our iniquities,' when we sincerely repent and turn unto Him in faith. And the Prophet Habakkuk said of God, "Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil.' " When Jim started on his shopping expedition his two dollars seemed a fortune. Standing waiting for a street car, a farmer driving to town with a truck load of turkeys and other fowl, noticed the old man and BEYOND THE GREY CORRIDOR judging he was from the Infirmary, invited him to ride with him. When he left him at his destination, he slipped more than his return car fare into his hand. When he entered the Store, there was a jam of people. The bewildering display of Christmas goods kept him peering eagerly first at one counter then at another. The crowd pushed him here and there but he didn't mind. Once a silly school girl nudged her companion as the shabby old man stood looking at a pair of gloves. Of course they knew he was even too poor to buy anything like that. At last after being jostled the entire length of the store, he found the men's handkerchiefs, They were ten cents each and a very good quality, the clerk told him, the colored borders being all the rage for gentlemen. Here the girl winked at another girl clerk, but the by-play was not noticed by the interested shopper. He bought six handkerchiefs and thrust them into his over-coat pocket. That was such a small Present for his fine friend, he must buy something else. It took him sometime to find the ties. To be sure he had never seen white hair, a pocketcomb in a case would be just the thing, so a green leather case, was added to his purchase. It was getting late in the afternoon and he was about ready to leave the Store when he thought of Poor old crippled What could he buy for him? Retracing his steps, he found Joe was great for being out of doors, even on a frosty morning, and this would So a happened his CHRISTMAS EVE! An enchanted city, a Fairy glistening, feathery snow flakes. Icicles hanging from the roofs like jeweled daggers. Inside the Infirmary all was warmth and cheer. "Peace on Earth, Good will to men," sang the ladies' chorus. The program was highly entertaining and the old folks, children Once again, waited with hearts aflutter for the great event—the Christmas tree. Tall and Stately it appeared before them, ablaze with many colored electric bulbs, glittering with silver and gold tinsel and laden with many beautiful and useful gifts. Fine, old friend and the delight of Joe Lyon fully repaid him and in his heart he knew that this was the very best Christmas he had ever had.