[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Service Lesson III - Public Opinion and Propaganda]

Social Service
Lesson III
PUBLIC OPINION AND PROPAGANDA

Text: "Civic Sociology," by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XXIX.

THE field of public opinion is a very fertile ground for propaganda, but the most intelligent thinking is based upon calm consideration of all phases of a given question. Serious opinion is not the product of the careless views which are freely expressed by the man in the street. One should neither take catch-penny phrases for such, nor think he is contributing to the solution of a problem by himself joining in such conversation.

However, opinions, ideas, and behavior are the results of human contacts and associations, and moral ideals are greatly influenced in the same way. Because people are so responsive to the opinions of others, the field of public opinion is a very fertile ground for propaganda. The majority of the common thought patterns of the day are founded upon this principle. Propaganda is constantly being spread through the various channels of expression in modern life. Mental laziness tends toward its unquestioned acceptance. But sound ideas and logical methods of arriving at conclusions are vital to social welfare.

The customs and institutions under which we live are constantly changing. Naturally the changes will be directed by those people who are capable of independent thought in so far as the limiting factors of the change do not interfere with the desired course of action. There have always been methods of propaganda through which powerful minds could work. Invention has made the modern world a particularly apt field for the widespread diffusion of concerted plans of action. Indeed we can almost talk over the fence of another nation's backyard our present means of communication by radio and telephone is so handy. "All the world is a neighborhood" is truly an apt slogan.

Some leaders use their power for the good of society, but many do not. Most followers fail to recognize propaganda as such, and are therefore unaware that they are being used to further some particular interest. Often those who are aware of the fact do not resist it because they are too lazy, or they are afraid of adverse criticism for opposing the prevailing ideas or customs of the times.

Therefore, it is very necessary to call attention to the need for intelligent thought and deliberation upon any policy of life, whether private or public, before action is taken or opinions are formed. In this lesson the following points will be discussed:

1. Each individual should strive to acquire the habit of securing all the facts upon public questions before forming an opinion in regard to them.
2. Opinions should be drawn from fact and not from propaganda.

Propaganda is the deliberate spreading of a doctrine or principle through concerted action in order to shape public opinion. It may be insidious in its working. The influence is often subtle, and generally it is not recognized by the mass.

However, true democratic government is dependent upon the intelligent opinions of its citizens. Originally the information which served as a basis for the forming of opinions upon matters of public interest was presented directly to the people at the town meetings. Opinions were derived from interpretations and conclusions which were the result of due consideration and mutual discussion of the problems. This system possessed many elements of safety, and it contributed to the development of logical thought and well balanced judgment. But naturally it was suited only to the simplest form of society.

Today the instructions for governmental procedure and the carrying out of its wishes may be given either directly or through any one of many possible methods. But these methods of carrying out the governmental wishes are often used to serve individual purposes.

Dictators are apt to assume control of all methods of communication in their own countries. People who live under them are practically forbidden to express any private opinions upon public matters. It is even dangerous to form them lest one should think out loud. Personal initiative is largely forbidden. Laws, the levying of taxes, and the issuing of decrees originate from a single source.

It is also true that the opportunity for acquiring knowledge of the basic facts of every day situations in countries where a large measure of individual freedom exists has become greatly diminished. It is difficult to form logical opinions upon public questions. Personal contacts are seldom made in town meetings. Frank discussion of ideas has disappeared to a large extent, because such means of communication as the radio make it very easy for the propagandists to do all the talking. Their ideas are so dramatically presented to the public that the public does not stop to question the value of the ideas, and the mass of people is so nearly powerless to counter with opposing opinions that the effort to do so is seldom made.

Advertising is made almost irresistibly attractive. Here it is also very difficult to secure the facts which are necessary to the forming of logical conclusions. In a country where the agencies of publicity have been multiplied as manifoldly as they have in the United States, the securing of facts should be an easy matter. But the agencies are too largely controlled by private interests to make this possible. Only that part of any idea which fosters favorable reactions to the interest which has subsidized the means of communication reaches the public by means of the press or the radio.

Well informed individuals on a given subject are not those who generally publicize the facts of the case. Newspapers are usually owned by corporations which regulate the interpretation of the news according to their own interests. Separate and apart from the interests of the owners of the papers, an advertiser who spends enormous sums of money on the advertising of his business will not give his publicity work to any medium which publishes information which is detrimental to his affairs and interests. Magazines are likewise owned by special causes and are thus devoted to them. The radio sells its time for private purposes. And the motion picture industry caters to popular opinion.

Each agency has its own board of censorship which usually sifts the facts which pertain to its interests according to a predetermined point of view.

Under all these circumstances it is difficult to form unbiased public opinion.

In order that the public may know who is doing the thinking that is back of the ideas which are presented to the public, or who is responsible for them, and also that the public may know the specific person or agency who is the means of utterance, there is a law which requires that the true ownership of each newspaper and magazine must be published, the author or sponsor of every radio talk must be announced, and the purchasers of all advertising space must be made known.

A similar law holds true in its respective way in regard to the hundreds of thousands of products which are offered for sale, because public opinion is as fertile a field for propaganda which is offered by the salesman of goods as for the projector of ideas.

But relatively few people seek information in regard to either matter. They do not investigate, nor do they question what is offered. They are prone to accept, and a great body of public opinion is thus formed which is never weighed in relation to the best good of both private and public interests.

Our attitudes upon strikes and other industrial problems are very apt to be the result of the propaganda to which the public is exposed. Each participating party in such controversies deliberately spreads information which supports its own contentions, while those which serve the opposing force are withheld.

Public opinion upon international questions is largely determined by propaganda. The mutual hatred of nations during war times is the result of this influence. Only those facts which support their own nation are given to belligerents. Those which are opposed are strictly withheld, as is all fairness of opinion in regard to the combatants.

The recent Italian advance upon the Ethiopians was facilitated for the Italians by the propaganda that was spread among the Ethiopians in regard to the great rewards which the latter would receive as an award for deserting their own ruler and joining the Italian cause.

During the World War both the Allies and the Central Powers spread information among their own nations which caused intense hatred of the opposing nations and much misinformation and misunderstanding as to the cause of the war. Probably the most deadly effect of all propaganda during war times is the horrible influence which is exerted upon a nation's own citizens. Hundreds of thousands, and even millions, of men lay down their lives in the flaming spirit of war when the torch has been lighted for no other purpose than the selfish motives of munitions magnates and seekers of greater and yet greater sovereign power. Potentates have it within their power to stir up international hatreds in the name of patriotism, and they are not adverse to using all the propaganda within their means to do so, as history so sadly points out. When war results, countless numbers of men actually lay down their precious lives to no other cause than selfishness and hatred. Parenthood, talent, scientific discovery is thus lost to the world. It is irreparable.

The stories of religious persecutions of past generations furnish excellent examples of the insidious nature of propaganda. Our own church has suffered from this cause. False information has been deliberately spread with a conscious effort to form public opinion against the church and its members. The unfairness of such unprincipled action is clearly recognizable, yet it is a rather common occurrence to find the same type of work being applied to the problems of the day.

The greatest example in all history of the dire consequences of concerted action against an individual is the Jewish demand for the condemnation of Christ. Pilate realized that the Messiah was guilty of no offence, but as a result of the planned actions of Jesus' enemies, he was allowed no alternative as a result of the trial than to pronounce the awful sentence of crucifixion. It is true that Christ's agony was part of the Scriptural plan, but that does not alter the fact that His suffering was the result of propaganda.

On the other hand, Peter's denial of his Savior is probably the most dramatic illustration in the world of the weakness of giving in to the ruling spirit of propaganda instead of defending a person or the conviction of right in the face of concerted action.

What can be done to foster more intelligent public opinion?

People must be taught to seek all the available facts which bear upon any important situation. Opinions should be based upon a consideration of all points of view. A demand should be made for accurate and all-embracing views on public matters. It is important to realize how difficult it is to get at such facts, but the habit of withholding judgment until one has arrived at them should be cultivated. It should be borne in mind that special interests are always seeking support for their own causes, and that public support is a very effective weapon against misrepresentation. It could be so used if the public would rise to the occasion. The public has a right to the facts of a case and to a knowledge of all sides of a question in return for its support. After all, subsidies and democracies are dependent for their very life upon public favor. Conclusions in regard to any given subject should be based upon intelligent and unbiased opinions.

From the foregoing it is evident that each individual should strive to acquire the habit of seeking all possible knowledge before arriving at conclusions. He should learn to detect specialized interests in public announcements and advertising. His opinions should be drawn from facts and not from propaganda. He should learn to recognize propaganda. And he should be unashamed to declare himself in favor of the right in so far as he is able to recognize governing and spiritual laws.

Activities

1. Relate some incident in the early history of our Church where members have been persecuted. See if you can account for the persecution by propaganda which has been spread among the persecutors.
2. Determine the ownership of the newspapers in your home town. From the knowledge of the ownership can you detect any policy which the paper would be bound to carry out because of its ownership?