[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature Lesson III]

Literature Lesson III SACAGAWEA USUALLY when a goal has been reached, a story loses interest, but not so with this "Star of the West."
Perhaps the reason can be found in the fact that after all it is not a romance but a true story of a noble woman's life. Mrs. Heuston, full to the brim of the Indian woman, keeps her tale at a high level to the very end. The return trip up the Columbia and over the Rocky Mountains was as difficult as the going over.
Eager to get home, the Captains and the men would not wait until the snow had melted from the high mountains. As a result they met with many hardships. The Indians along the way were not very helpful. Indeed, often they were really dangerous, but the cool courage and watchfulness of the Captains won in the end. All this time Sacagawea's baby had been growing until on the return trip he became the idol of the entire party. Clark, as well as many of the men, fondled the boy and made a great fuss over him, many of them calling him Pomp or Pompy and not by his own name.
During the long journey and the wait at the foot of the Rockies for the snow to melt, Pomp became ill. "One day, Sacagawea did not go out into the fields to gather roots. She sat alone in her shelter nursing the child, who was ill and feverish trying in her own way to relieve it, with no effect.
When the Captains returned she went to them, not shyly, now, for it was for Pomp she must ask this favor. "Pomp was teething. The Captain 602 worked over him giving him what crude medicines they had and poulticing him with boiled onions.
They removed the woman and her child to their shelter where they could be more comfortable and where they could look after the idol of the camp. The rough men were all disturbed by the illness and did everything in their power to assist. "At last Pomp got better. "Were you afraid he would die, Janey?' Clark asked when Pomp was out of danger. " 'No,' she said simply. 'I felt sad that the child had pain, but I knew you would make him well.' " So implicit was the Bird-Woman's faith in the Captains and especially in the Red Head, nothing seemed impossible for them to do. As she told her brother, "They know everything."
When the party had safely recrossed the great Saw-Tooth Range of mountains which lies along the border of Idaho and Montana and had camped once more at Traveler's Rest, it was decided that the party should separate; a part of it was to go with Lewis upon an exploration of the Marias River country and a part to go with Clark to explore the Yellowstone, the two companies to meet at the confluence of the Yellowstone and the Missouri. Since Lewis was going into a dangerous territory, he called for volunteers.
Nearly every man in the company responded, but he selected from their number to be his companions Drouillard, Reuben and Jo Fields, Warner, Frazier, and Sergeant Gass. It was decided that Charbonneau should accompany Clark. "And Sacagawea?" "Sacagawea's eyes were wistful. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 'I would like much,' she said, 'to go to the great river of the Yellow Rocks. My nation goes there often. I should like that.' " Clark remonstrated with her kindly as he thought it would be better for her to go as far as the Great Falls with Lewis and there have a good rest while the men prepared the boats for the river again. "It is a long and hazardous trip ] am undertaking," Clark said to her. "We may run short of food. We may find great danger from the Crows in that region." "Sacagawea's dark eyes were shining. 'Was I ever afraid?' she asked simply. "Clark smiled. 'Never. All right, if you wish it, you may come with me.'" And she went. Indeed, the little Bird-Woman would have gone through fire with the Red Head. With Clark went twenty men including York, Sacagawea, and the child, Pomp. "Clark was in high spirits.
Riding up beside Sacagawea, he tickled the baby on the chin.. "Hi, Pomp!' he said. 'Off on a long trip with the Red Head, eh?' "Sacagawea flushed with pleasure at the friendly gesture. 'He likes riding,' she admitted. ""Riding! He's a lazy young rogue!
When does he not ride? If no horse is allotted him, has he not always his devoted mother?' " The following day was July 4, 1806. The party celebrated the occasion by enjoying a sumptuous meal of deer meat. As they rode along on this journey, Clark plied the Indian woman with questions about the country. The intelligent squaw was able to identify the region and especially the mountain peaks and passes.
They finally arrived at the head