[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON DEPARTMENT - Literature Lesson (Sacagawea conclusion)]

LESSON DEPARTMENT of the Jefferson River where they had left one of their richest cache's of supplies. Here Captain Clark divided his party again, one part to follow their old trail down to the Great Falls where they were to join with some of Lewis's men, and the others to go with him down the unexplored Yellowstone.
Here again, thinking of her own good, Clark tried to induce Janey to go with the men the easier way telling her that his way might be very dangerous. But once again she plead with him saying that she would like to see the River of the Yellow Rocks.
"Janey, it will be a hard trip," he warned her.... "If you go down to the falls with the canoes you can wait for us there and get a rest."
"I am not tired," she said simply.
Clark smiled. "Janey, you shall go. You are the first man in my party."
As always, Sacagawea proved to be Clark's best "man." Knowing the country from memory of her childhood she led him unerringly through passes which he might have had difficulty in finding.
At last they reached the Yellowstone and started down that river. On July 25, 1806, they camped beside a great pillar which they called Pompy's Tower naming it after the little half-breed Indian boy, pride of the camp. (See in connection with this name Mrs. Heuston's note in the Appendix.) On top of this pillar Clark carved him name: "William Clark, July 25, 1806."
"Six hundred and thirty-six miles Clark and his band, six men and Sacagawea, descended the Yellowstone in their lashed canoes; but arriving at the appointed rendezvous found the mosquitoes so thick they could neither hunt nor dress skins for clothing."
They pushed on and were joined by Lewis farther down the Missouri. Mrs. Heuston gives a graphic account of Lewis's adventures, but since Sacagawea, subject of our lessons, was with Clark, it will not be necessary for the class to follow Lewis unless they wish to do so.
On August 14, 1806, after having been "Where no man had ever been before," the little party once more reached the Mandan towns from which they had started their journey more than a year earlier. They were accorded a great reception, but to at least two people, the home-coming was not all happiness. Captain Clark was troubled about the fate of Janey and her little son both of whom he had come to regard tenderly, and Sacagawea was sad because of the parting from the Red Head, which was inevitable, and the return from being a respected guide and interpreter to a slave-wife of a worthless cruel fellow.
Clark's "leave-taking" of Sacagawea was brief. Sacagawea's face was pale, like ivory deepened by time, no longer shining rosy and copper. Her patient eyes were without light. But she had no complaint. She asked nothing.
"Janey," he said gently, "I am very sorry to leave you in this place. You are a great soul. I regret that you must return to that slavery. I wish you could continue with us...."
"Mon homme will not go," she said quietly. "Life does those things."
Charbonneau bustled up. "Quick, Chienne (dog)," he said, "bring my pack and my robes. It is time for going."
"Janey," Clark said, "when the time comes, urge him to send Pomp to me. I will be good to him. I will have him taught many things. Make Charbonneau do this."
"I will try," she said.
With the child she took upon her back Charbonneau's bags and blankets, his tools and skins. She smiled back at Clark a grave, unshining smile.
"Ordway, send a man to carry that stuff to the village for the poor soul."
Unable to endure the sight, he moved away. Sacagawea, turning for one last look at the beloved Red Head, could not find him. With a smile for the past, a sigh for the future, she trudged quietly up to the town after Charbonneau.
William Clark was not soon to forget the Indian woman who had been so important during their expedition, or the little boy, Pomp, who had been the idol of the camp. The picture Mrs. Heuston paints of Sacagawea in St. Louis in the home of the beloved Red Head and his white wife, is pathetic and might well be read in class in order that the sad beauty of the picture might not be marred. The sad yet happy story of Sacagawea's death is also beautifully told—dramatically told. The last pages of the book might well be read in their entirety.
In concluding these lessons, it would be well to review the art found in the book "Star of the West." The author has taken some crude journals and a journey over the old trails and has succeeded in reconstructing a personality that has the right to be known and loved by all those who love loyal and brave hearts. There will be those who will say that Mrs. Heuston has romanticized too much; that she has taken too many liberties with the facts available, yet I am sure readers of the book will find themselves championing her efforts.

The quotations in this lesson From Star of the West By Ethel Hueston, Copyright 1935, Used by Special Permission of the Publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company.

Suggestions For Class Work
1. Follow on a map the return journey of the adventurers. If any one in the class has followed any part of the trail, she might be asked to give personal experiences.
2. To what incident does Clark refer in his last speech—"plenty of potatoes?"
3. What is a savage? Review Clark's statements to his wife near the close of chapter twenty-one. Was Sacagawea's son one?
4. Has Sacagawea a right to a place of honor among women? If so, upon what are your arguments based?
5. Do you consider Mrs. Heuston a good writer? If so, why? If not, why not? How do you rate the book?