[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Lund]
Northern States Mission
FROM the Northern States Mission in May came a beautiful Bulletin with the cover design a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE picture of Sister Augusta W. Grant, and the following lovely message from Sister Grant we feel every Relief Society sister should read: "I am happy to send a greeting to the Relief Society sisters of the Northern States Mission. Among our several Church auxiliary organizations, there is none in my opinion more important in its scope or more beneficial in its results, both to its members and those whose lives it touches beyond the organization than the Relief Society. "Worthwhile as your organization has been ever since its inception, there was never a time when it was more needed than now. May you all be inspired to do your part in the great security program of our Church. The eyes of the world are upon us, but with such workers as are to be found in the Relief Society we will not fail. And from the lives of service which you live may joy, and peace come to you all. Sincerely your sister, Augusta W. Grant." (Wife of President Heber J. Grant.) President May G. Hinckley of the Mission is to be congratulated on the very able manner in which she is carrying on the Relief Society work. A summary of the Bulletin indicates a fine suggestive program for summer-time activities and a fine account of the Daughters' Day Celebration, not forgetting the message of Relief Society to all its member organizations to do fitting honor to the Constitution of the United States. Loyalty to this great country of ours is one of the strong appeals that can be made to our women, and a feeling of gratitude for our great blessings, encouraged through this study. "There is a very fine appeal to the Magazine Agents, and a portion of the space in the Bulletin is given to a review of the General Relief Society Conference held in
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Salt Lake City April 2 and 3 of this year. Altogether the Bulletin is a most inspirational message to the sisters and we feel does much to stimulate them to rise to all the opportunities offered through Relief Society.
Eastern States Mission
FROM Sister Grace S. Colton, of the Eastern States Mission comes a very beautiful report of the many activities of Relief Society. To quote Sister Colton: "Reports from the Mission Relief Societies of this Mission coming in to me have certainly made me rejoice. This year these organizations have accomplished more than any previous year since I have been working with them. They seem now to be eager to have their organization one of the best." An interesting account in detail of the educational program, including the Scripture reading Project is reported. Daughters' Day met with a very enthusiastic response in Washington, D. C. We feel that the following, which was furnished by Sister Colton, is so concrete and clear a demonstration of the way this beautiful custom may be put into our organization, that we publish the account of it. The regular program was entirely carried out by the daughters. "The literary lesson for April of the Washington Branch of the Relief Society, was held in the auditorium of the L. D. S. Chapel, and 593 was a continuation of the fascinating study of Carl Sandburg's 'Abraham Lincoln.' "Introducing Mothers' and Daughters' Day, Mrs. Vera S. King read a delightful poem, written by Ann Jarvis, entitled 'Parents.' "Gladys Stewart Bennion had charge of the program. Eight young daughters of Relief Society members participated in presenting a charmingly unique resume of the Life of Lincoln; material selected from Mrs. Bennion's thesis: "The Lincoln Motif in Modern Literature.' "Marjorie Willey discussed 'Lincoln the Man,' concluding with an original copy of Edwin Markham's 'Lincoln the Commoner.' Ruth Hales touched delightfully upon Lincoln's humor; Renee Overlade took the subject: 'Lincoln and Depression,' while Lucy Beth Cardon emphasized his oratory and qualities that made Lincoln an artist. Barbara Bennion used Lincoln's quotations as a means of interpreting his philosophy, religion and statesmanship. Evelyn Iverson gave an excellent reading of Mrs. Bennion's story of Lincoln entitled: 'A Stranger at the Cross Roads.' This story suggests what is meant by the Lincoln Motif in Literature. "The musical numbers were 'America the Beautiful,' 'Lincoln,' by Marian Mitchell, from a volume of Churchill gems, and 'America'."
 
THE GENERAL BOARD Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Elise B. Alder Ida P. Beal Nettie D. Bradford Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Editor Donna Durrant Sorensen - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Manager Vivian R. McConkie - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Assistant Manager
Leda T. Tensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman
