[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson Department]

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Lesson 5. September 26, 1937

BROTHERHOOD

1. What is the meaning of the word "brotherhood"?

Brotherhood means the relationship existing between brothers; hence, the whole body of persons engaged in the same business or profession; the state of being a brother; mutual kindness or good feeling.

2. What is the difference between the brotherhood of man and the Fatherhood of God?

The Fatherhood of God is the relationship that exists between God and man. In speaking of this relationship Christ said, "For he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye?" (Matthew 5:45, 46.) In the Parable of the Prodigal Son (Luke 15:11-32) the Savior demonstrated in masterly fashion, for the benefit of the Scribes and Pharisees, in what true brotherhood consisted. When the erring son returned home after spending his means in riotous living, his father saw him "when he was yet a great way off" and proceeded to exhibit his love and affection for him. The father did not upbraid him and punish him for his misdeeds. He saw the important thing, namely, that he was able to reclaim a lost son. We cannot help but feel that in this story the Savior meant to portray the action of the father toward the son as the type of feeling that should prevail between all men. How different the feeling exhibited by the son who stayed at home! This son had a mean, hard, critical, and self-centered attitude toward the whole procedure of his father. As Dr. Rall points out, "He does not say, 'My brother,' but 'Thy son.' He drags out the details of his brother's shame, 'who hath devoured thy living with harlots'. He is as little filial in spirit as he is fraternal; he looks upon his father as a kind of taskmaster (verse 29). When he thinks of a possible good time it is 'with my friends', not with his father." Another masterly treatment of this theme is found in the Parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:30-35). The lawyer who provoked the parable from the lips of Christ had said, "And who is my neighbor?" He might just as well have said, "And who is my brother?" Neighbor and brother are practically synonymous in the thinking of the Savior. The brotherly action of the good Samaritan is not so much brought out in the fact that he bound up the wounds of the man whom he found by the wayside, and whom he brought to an inn, as in the fact that "On the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee." (Verse 35.) The good Samaritan was thinking not of the least he could do for his brother, but of the most. His brotherly act was not finished when he left the inn; it proceeded to operate even in his absence. It was characteristic of the Christ to think of maximum obligation rather than of minimum requirement which characterized so much of the moral teaching of his contemporaries.

5. The Worth of Human Souls to God Demands Brotherhood Among Men.—The human soul is of infinite worth in the eyes of God. Christ pointed that out when He said, "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" (Mark 8:36, 37.) In making this statement our Lord did not have reference to man's mere physical existence here or hereafter. He had reference to "his true life as a man and child of God both here and yonder." So precious is even a child that Christ could say, "And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea." (Mark 9:42.) The modern scriptures emphasize God's love for man as follows. "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God. . . . And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my father!" So we must conclude that if Christ's teaching means anything at all, if the sons of men are worth so much to God, and if God wants us to be His real sons and daughters, —it logically follows that man must exhibit that same kind of unselfish love toward his brethren that God displays toward him. This is the essence of brotherhood.

Questions

1. What advances in our material culture have made it more possible than ever to practically demonstrate world brotherhood? What is your estimate of the way in which we are taking advantage of them?

2. Has the idea of a world brotherhood made many gains as a result of the World War?

3. How do you think Christ would view the common slogan to the effect that "Large armies and navies will keep us out of war?" (See Doctrine and Covenants 98:15, 16.)

4. In what ways can our missionary system help advance world brotherhood?

5. What problems have you in your own community that the Relief Society and priesthood quorums could solve and thus demonstrate a real sense of brotherhood?

Problems

Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.

1. Ask the superintendent of schools in your district to give you some facts relative to remedial physical defects among the school children. In the light of our lesson what is the duty of your community?

2. In the face of Christ's declaration about the brotherhood of men, explain Matthew 15:24; compare Matthew 10:5, 6.

Teacher's Topic

OPTIMISM OF JESUS

"Nothing can replace in our spiritual lives the constant perusal of the Gospels with a view to treasure up the character traits of the Son of God that we may pattern after Him."

"Who is he that overcometh the world but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God."

"How good is man's life, the mere living!
How fit to employ
All the heart and the soul and the senses
Forever in joy!"
—Browning.

"Optimism compels the world forward and gives to men the incentive to fight with circumstance. —It is faith that leads to achievement; it is confidence in the present and hope for the future."

OFTEN we class as an optimist one who lives with the delusion that no matter what he or any one else does, everything is certain to come out all right in the end. This is a cheap sort of optimism and is the product of a "shallow brain and stupid heart." Many individuals there are who take refuge from the realities of life in dreams of good and call themselves optimists. Optimism of this sort is like a house built upon the sand. Then, there is a dangerous optimism of ignorance and indifference where a hopeful outlook upon life is maintained by refusing to know and to see; where evil is ignored and only the good contemplated. How poor, how undesirable this is!

The optimism to be admired and desired is that which rests on a glad belief in the final predominance of good and a willing desire to co-operate with the good that it may prevail. Genuine optimism does not deny the existence of evil, it does not refuse to look at the world's woes, it recognizes the reality and gravity of life, accepting it as something valuable, looking forward with faith and confidence in the power to resist, to change, to meet courageously and to conquer. It does not build cloud castles of happiness but sees life as stern yet worthy, and maintains a hopeful outlook. Real optimism is neither unwilling to face disagreeable facts nor disposed to be daunted by them, however stubborn they may be. Dark things are but a "halt on the way to good." Optimists of this type are not easily discouraged or argued into hopelessness. They face the future with bright anticipation and with confidence in the present and hope for the future. They see the best in everything and everyone and make that best a part of themselves.

The element of optimism in Christ's life was immensely preponderant. He came as a prophet of good with a message of hope. He was not blind to the evils, the sorrows and heart breaks of the world. He was acquainted with suffering. He knew the strength required to grapple with and resist evil. He knew the dark and the bright sides of life and he was never daunted. He constantly exhorted mankind, "Be of good cheer." He comforted his disciples against tribulation with a hopeful outlook. "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world."

Jesus had an abiding faith and confidence in God and taught men to have likewise. He exhorted his disciples, "Have faith in God." This is the secret of real optimism. He who has faith in his Heavenly Father and makes a friend of him, straightway feels glad, brave, and ready for any lot.

Jesus had an unswerving confidence in man. The Gospels are rich with illustrations.

He had confidence in Zacchaeus to repent. Zacchaeus was a rich man, chief among the publicans. When Jesus went to his home the people murmured, saying that he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner.

And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.

And Jesus said unto him, "This day is salvation come to this house."

Most mistreated of all men the Master evidenced always faith in human nature. When he saw that men were determined to take his life he said, "If I be lifted up I will draw all men unto me! He felt that no matter what cruel things human nature might be guilty of, there was after all, down