[Vol24 | September 1937 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Institute at the Pearson]
The Institute at the University of Wyoming as it appears to an outsider By Lorene Pearson,
TO express what the L. D. S. Institute at the University of Wyoming means to one who is not a member of the Church may appear, on the surface, to have little value; and yet, I believe this project to be a community affair in a very real sense, the concern, in fact, of all who are interested in the welfare of young people. It has demonstrated what may be done for the individual student through intelligent guidance—courses in the history of religion, and personal advice from a Director fitted for the task; and it has shown what may be done to develop the cooperative spirit on a most heterogeneous campus. Three years ago very few people in Laramie were aware that Mormons lived here, and if they did know they had no idea what the Church really stood for. This was no reflection on the local Branch; rather it was a compliment to the foresight of the President, Mr. A. E. Bowman and his enthusiastic partner in the venture, that they realized the need of a concrete symbol of their faith. No group can make itself felt in a community without a building, an institution; this is particularly true in a University town where the population is constantly in flux. Knowing this, the local members, particularly the leaders, devoted ten years of unremitting effort to make the beautiful native stone structure a reality. Theirs was the pioneering, the hardships, that, only as they are ended, become known. As one man said to me, "I didn't even know there were any Mormons in Laramie, and suddenly they spring up all over the town." He was exaggerating, of course, and yet the importance of the Church has increased one-hundred fold with the building of the Institute. It is a worthy monument to the zeal of the local Branch and to the response of the Church in answer to their need. Not only does the building afford ample facilities for many phases of activity with chapel, lecture hall, library, ballroom, two club-rooms and reception room, but it is also one of the best designed and most artistically decorated places in Laramie. It is with this second phase, the construction of the Institute, that the first Director, Mr. J. Wyley Sessions, had so much to do; he, with his charming, capable wife, brought culture and taste to the institution in the choice of furnishings; and, keenly aware of the awakening interest in the community, they fostered the fine social feeling that has developed. Theirs was the period of introducing to outsiders the aims and ideals of the Latter-day Saints, and they achieved this most successfully. And now the present Director, Dr. Daryl Chase, has inaugurated yet another phase in the development of the organization. He has emphasized the necessity of scholarship, knowing, as he does, that human relationships are endlessly inter-related—between the 588
Church and the secular world as well as within the Church itself—and that learning overcomes all barriers. The Institute, under his guidance, has become an integral part of the community,—it has achieved the cooperative spirit. This attainment, of course, is most noticeable within the group itself; every individual, whether a member of the Branch or a student at the University, obviously knows himself to be a necessary part of the Institute; whatever he is doing—planting the lawn, preparing a lesson for Sunday school, or showing visitors through the building—he feels responsibility in making the project a success.
THIS manifestation is not, of course, an accidental thing; it has roots deep in the creative past of the Church; the leaders have always realized the need for more complex integration as the Church expanded. And now that the present generation finds itself increasingly in secular society—even as the early Christian Church through the missions of Paul found itself no longer an isolated institution—organizations are being established to meet the new need. The first supplement to public education were the Primary Associations; then the Junior Seminaries followed by High School Seminaries, and, since 1926 the Institutes which are designed to augment the teaching of the colleges and universities in states adjoining Utah.
FROM the very first inception of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints there was realization that the whole man was not only the happiest man, but the most helpful to others, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that therefore man's experiences must be unified—all his experiences, secular, sectarian, spiritual and physical; and, knowing that religion may play the important part in this significant task, provision, in the form of organizations, was made. How real a need there was for a unifying agent on the campus at Laramie, could only too well be told by members of the Branch, or anyone else interested in students. Mr.
Bowman and Mr.
Quayle did what they could by holding meetings in their homes, but no amount of effort could overcome the inadequacy of space, the time at their disposal. I have known L. D. S. Students, and others as well, who came down here to school, and who, because there was no organized effort to aid their adjustment, became one-sided in their outlook.
These students, for the most part, came from small communities, rudimentary, not unlike pioneer communities; and these young people had not had the profound experience of their elders in helping to build these towns; then, suddenly they came in contact with a multitude of viewpoints.
