[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Pride of the Story]
Lrnze-vl/ inning  Story 
J/lnnual  [Relief  Society  Snort  Story  Contest 
First  Prize  Story 
Eloise  and  the  Indian 
Mabel  S.  Harmer 
ELOISE  always  said  that  she 
had  been  brought  up  on  the 
story  of  Grandmother  Jason 
and  the  Indian,  along  with  lemon 
pie  on  Tuesday  and  the  semi-annual 
visit  to  Dr.  Stokes,  the  family 
dentist. 
While  she  was  still  young  enough 
to  be  carried  up  to  bed  on  her  fa- 
ther's shoulder,  she  remembered 
shivering  delightedly  at  the  story 
of  how  Grandma  Jason  had  been 
alone  in  her  cabin,  with  only  her 
two  babies,  when  the  Indian  came 
demanding  food  and  threatening 
to  kill  her  if  she  didn't  give  him 
"biscuit." 
Grandma  had  had  no  biscuit  that 
day.  At  least,  none  to  give  away. 
But  she  did  have  Grandpa's  rifle, 
and  she  had  plenty  of  courage. 
Armed  with  both,  she  had  driven 
the  Indian  away  from  the  house. 
Nor  was  that  the  end  of  the  story. 
Later  she  had  walked  six  miles 
through  the  snow  in  order  to  take 
some  medicine  to  the  Indian's  sick 
child.  According  to  family  legend, 
there  never  had  been  anyone  quite 
like  Grandma  Jason. 
A  wave  both  of  envy  and  admira- 
tion for  the  grand  old  lady  swept 
through  Eloise  as  she  came  down 
the  stairway  preparatory  to  a  call 
on  Jim  Booker.    She  glanced  in  the 
Page  18 
MABEL  S.  HARMER 
dining  room  where  Davy,  her  six- 
teen-year-old son,  was  spreading  out 
model  airplane  parts  over  the  table. 
"Be  sure  to  have  everything  cleared 
up  in  plenty  of  time  for  lunch,"  she 
reminded  him. 
"Okay,  Mum.  Where're  you  go- 
ing?" he  asked,  scarcely  glancing  up 
from  his  work. 
"I'm  going  to  call  on  an  Indian," 
she  replied,  and  walked  out  before 
he  had  recovered  from  his  surprise 
enough  to  ask  further  details. 
As  she  closed  the  screen  door  be- 
hind   her    she    thought    grimly,    I

ELOISE  AND  THE  INDIAN  19 
wish   that   I   had   inherited   grand-  usual  type  of  caller  at  all."    Aloud 
mother's    courage    instead    of    her  she    asked    pleasantly,    "Will    you 
black  hair.     I'm  going  to  need  an  please  ask  Mr.  Booker  if  I  may  see 
extra     supply     rather    badly,     I'm  him?" 
afraid.  "Sure,"  replied  the  girl,  lifting 
David  had  left  the  car  home  for  the  phone.  "A  lady  to  see  you,  Mr. 
her  use  that  day,  but  she  decided  Booker,"  she  stated,  then  turned 
to  walk  anyway.  "It  will  give  me  and  nodded  in  the  direction  of  the 
more  time  to  get  organized  and  de-  door,  "Go  on  in." 
cide  what  method  of  attack  Fm  go- 
ing to  use,"  she  told  herself,  know-  "PLOISE  opened  the  door  herself 
ing  all  the  time  that  the  real  reason  and  walked  into  the  inner  of- 
was  it  would  delay  her  talk  for  at  fice.  Mr.  Booker  half  rose  from  his 
least  another  twenty  minutes.  chair,  evidently  surprised  to  see  that 
She  hadn't  known  that  the  six  his  caller  really  was  a  lady, 
city   blocks    could   be   covered    in  "Sit  down,  Ma'am,"  he  said  with 
so  short  a  time.    I  really  ought  to  some  slight  embarrassment,  which 
walk  to  town  oftener,  she  thought,  helped  in  some  small  degree  to  put 
as  she  paused  before  the  red  brick  her  at  her  ease.    Then,  seeming  to 
building    where    Jim    Booker    had  spread  over  as  much  of  his  chair 
his  modest  office.     In  the  narrow  as  possible,  he  asked,  "What  can  I 
hallway  she  looked  on  the  directory  do  for  you?" 
for  his   name  and   office  number.  "I    am    Mrs.    David    Reynolds," 
There  it  was,  Jim  Booker,  Fire  In-  she  stated,  "and  live  at  987  Linden 
surance,  145.    Precious  little  fire  in-  Avenue.    I've  heard  that  you  intend 
surance  he  sold,  if  rumor  was  true,  to  put  up  a  tavern  on  the  corner  of 
Or  at  least  it  was  a  very  minor  part  Ninth  Street  and  Linden.    Is  that 
of  his  business  activities.     But,  of  so?" 
course,  it  sounded  much  more  re-  "Well,  now,  I  wouldn't  call  it  a 
spectable  than  "Taverns,  Inc.,"  or  tavern     exactly,"     replied     Booker 
whatever  he  might  call  his  other  slowly.     "Just.  a  sort  of  soft  drink 
enterprises.  parlor." 
One  forty-five.     That  would  be  "Is  your  license  for  soft  drinks 
on  the  second  floor.     She  climbed  only?" 
the  stairs  slowly,  the  butterflies  in  "Well,  no— not  exactly,  but—" 
her  stomach  becoming  more  lively  "That's  what  I  understood,"  she 
with  every  step  upward.    She  wished  interrupted.    Then,  leaning  forward