[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Stars Are Better]
boy,  too.  Downtown  will  be  a  better 
place  for  The  Blue  Peacock. 
Yours  respectfully, 
Jim  Booker. 
She  was  still  looking  at  the  note, 
slightly  dazed,  when  David  came 
into  the  room.  "Whew!"  he  whis- 
tled, catching  sight  of  the  roses. 
"Are  you  going  to  Europe  or  get- 
ting married  or  something?" 
"Not  exactly,"  smiled  Eloise. 
"This,"  she  went  on,  picking  up  the 
roses,  "is  a  peace  offering  from  an 
Indian." 
Stemming  the  c/tde  of  Iroiiomyelitis 
Information  Furnished  by  the  National  Foundation  for 
Infantile  Paralysis 
|70R  the  fourth  time  in  as  many  years,  the  swelling  tide  of  polio  engulfed 
the  nation  in  1951.  Like  a  flooding  river,  bursting  through  barriers 
and  plunging  across  the  countryside,  the  uncontainable  force  of  polio 
epidemics  descended  upon  American  homes,  bringing  hardship  and  tragedy 
to  the  families  of  some  28,500  victims.  .  .  . 
But  wherever  polio  struck— on  the  plantation,  in  the  mining  town, 
on  the  reservation,  or  in  the  nation's  teeming  centers  of  population— the 
means  of  resisting  its  onslaught  were  close  at  hand— through  the  March 
of  Dimes. 
Blanketing  the  nation,  almost  3,000  chapters  of  the  National  Founda- 
tion for  Infantile  Paralysis  were  ready  and  waiting  with  practical  assistance 
for  the  stricken,  ready  with  MARCH  OF  DIMES  funds  to  meet  the  needs 
of  a  single  patient  or  the  obligation  of  a  full  scale  epidemic  .... 
When  funds  for  patient  care  were  exhausted,  the  burden  of  payment 
was  not  thrown  back  upon  helpless  patients.  The  debt  was  assumed  by 
your  National  Foundation  for  Infantile  Paralysis,  to  be  paid  from  funds 
raised  in  1952.  .  .  .Thousands  of  today's  patients  will  be  on  chapter  rolls 
during  1952  and  in  years  thereafter,  a  crushing  burden  upon  communities 
unless  MARCH  OF  DIMES  aid  is  close  at  hand   
New  epidemics  must  be  faced.  The  nation  must  meet  that  problem 
realistically  and  raise  enough  money  to  fight  the  disease  on  a  larger  scale. 
.  .  .  Help  your  community.    Join  the  MARCH  OF  DIMES.

Uncertain  Possession 
Chapter  i 
Beatrice  R.  Parsons 
THE  car  crossing  the  Nevada 
desert  was  small  and  dark  in 
the  great  waste  of  gray  sand. 
It  clung  to  the  highway  like  a  huge 
bug.  A  Utah  license  hung  at  the 
back  of  the  car,  and  on  the  front 
was  a  physician's  caduceus.  Dr. 
Matthew  Wire  and  his  bride  of  a 
month  were  alone  in  the  car. 
Lorna  was  extremely  happy.  She 
kept  thinking:  Just  Matt  and  my- 
self! That's  the  way  I  always  want 
it  to  be.  Lorna  Ashton  Wire  and 
her  husband  Dr.  Matthew  Wire. 
She  moved  a  little  closer  to  her  hus- 
band's side  and  put  her  hand  on 
his  arm  in  an  odd,  possessive  little 
gesture. 
Matt's  eyes  caressed  her  as  he 
looked  down  at  her  hand.  "What 
is  it,  Lorna?  What's  troubling 
you?" 
How  could  she  tell  him?  How 
could  she  explain  her  small  fears 
and  worries?  How  could  she  make 
him  understand  that  she  was  afraid 
of  his  home  town,  Westfield,  Ne- 
vada, of  the  whole  of  Sky  Valley? 
Lorna' s  fears  were  foolish  fears- 
fears  Matt  would  laugh  at!  She 
found  herself  afraid  of  what  she 
imagined  about  the  big,  old  stone 
house  Matt  had  described,  of  elder- 
ly Nurse  Hallie  who  had  taken  care 
of  Matt  as  a  child,  of  Matt's  Uncle 
John— Dr.  John  Wire,  who  was  ill 
with  arthritis  and  had  written  ask- 
ing Matt  to  take  over  his  practice 
until  he  was  well  again. 
These  things  and  others  fright- 
ened Lorna.    She  was  worried  about 
Matt's  old  friends.  The  girls  he 
might  have  married  if  he  had 
stayed  in  Westfield.  Matt  had 
mentioned  Anne  Clayton,  Jeane 
Beatty,  and  Margaret  Rogers.  Mar- 
garet was  not  well,  as  the  result  of 
an  attack  of  rheumatic  fever  when 
a  child. 
Matt  had  been  so  eager  to  see 
his  old  friends  again.  They  had  all 
grown  up  together,  had  gone  to 
school  picnics,  parties,  and  dances. 
They  had  been  such  close  friends, 
had  shared  so  many  things.  Lorna 
couldn't  help  being  a  little  jealous 
when  she  remembered  that  she 
had  not  shared  in  the  fun  and  hap- 
piness. 
She  had  watched  Matt's  face  light 
up  when  he  had  read  his  uncle's 
letter.  Matt  had  just  finished  his 
internship  at  General  Hospital. 
Now  that  they  were  married  he 
was  looking  around  for  a  place  to 
start  his  own  practice.  He  had 
been  offered  an  office  in  the  almost 
completed  Doctors'  Center.  As 
soon  as  the  building  was  finished, 
just  a  matter  of  a  few  weeks,  he 
could  move  in.  Matt  was  making 
his  plans  when  his  uncle's  letter  ar- 
rived. He  had  read  it  eagerly,  and 
Lorna  knew  then  that  it  interested 
him. 
"I  must  confess,  darling,"  he 
said  when  he  had  finished,  "that 
I'm  interested.  I've  always  wanted 
to  take  you  to  Westfield,  introduce 
you  to  all  my  friends.  Let  them 
see  what  a  beautiful  bride  I  chose 
for  myself."    His  eyes  looked  into 
Page  25

26 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1952 
distances  which  she  could  not  fol- 
low, and  he  added  wistfully:  ''Uncle 
John  was  so  good  to  me  after  Dad 
died.  He  helped  me  finish  my  edu- 
cation. Now  I  can  repay  him  a 
little."