[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: We Things]

Page 3] Q-> EDITORIAL 9 

VOL.
39 JANUARY 1952 "We Seek After Shese Shings 4 If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things (13th Article of Faith). GAIN this year in the month of January, The Relief Society Magazine is enriched and made more valuable by the three prizewinning poems of the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the first prize story in the Relief Society Short Story Contest.
Since the beginning of the poem contest in 1924, when Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson wrote her lovely poem "The Dreamer," Latter-day Saint women have gleaned from the scenes of earth, from their own lives, and from the lives of others, the precious events and the significant thoughts which they have clothed with words of enduring beauty to share with others through the pages of the Magazine. The story contest, inaugurated in 1942, the Relief Society centennial year, has revealed much talent and has given an opportunity for Latter-day Saint women to develop their narrative gifts in writing stories of enduring worth.
Over the years, these poems and stories have become an expression of that high endeavor and that continuing search for the artistic and the beautiful which has characterized Latter-day Saint women since the days of Kirtland and Nauvoo. We know that every spirit blessed with the opportunity of earth life comes into mortality with the power to reach out and grow illimitably. Page 32 It is as the Past 'Wordsworth has said: The soul that rises with us, our life's star, Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar: Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness,. But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God, who is our home.
Individualistic in their nature, influenced to an unknown degree by that marvelous and mysterious stream of heredity, and tinted and toned by the earth environment— our gifts and our talents have been bestowed upon us for developing and sharing.
Little do we know the extent of our capabilities until we have explored at léast some of the fair, unlimited fields of art and their expression which are so near to our doors. And we may never realize the extent of the influence which one poem or one song or one painting may have upon our associates in this day and upon others in the years to come. When Eliza R.