[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Latter-day Saint Faith]
What are we seeking to build? We must build faith, because that is the re- ~ sponsibility of this Church. We are face to face with two great needs. One is on the part of the person who learns, the other on the part of the person who teaches. The student must be wise in selecting the kind of training which will give to him or her the.
Tight point of view and help to build faith in God. LATTER-DAY SAINT EDUCATION TO BUILD FAITH iW HE teacher must be willing to uphold her Church responsibility to promote faith. We must remember that just as bad kings in ancient times taught wickedness to their people, a teacher today who loves the wisdom of man more than the wisdom of God, is in a position where he or she can actually lead people astray, and establish in their minds a false understanding of the truth, and direct their thinking in dangerous paths.
Great is the responsibility of the teacher. A teacher must promote faith. If she does, all is well, but if she does not, great harm results. You remember that the Savior said at one time, "Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of God." In the Relief Society we have lesson courses which are well planned and well thought out, with the one idea in mind of giving to the.
Women of the Church the proper point of view in education. Our lesson course is designed to do what Nephi said "to provide education and learning, with faith." We expect that all who teach in the Relief Society organization will use the information at hand to develop a point of view in the minds of the women in this Church which will lead them into faith, and from faith into righteous works, that their souls may be saved.
That we may have that point of view and that we may teach faith and use all of the knowledge and information that comes into our hands for the purpose of saving and enlightening our people, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Snowflake. Maryhale Woolsey Here on my dark glove resting transiently, Behold a masterpiece of mystery: Fragment of cloud, star-cut and whitest white, Gentle as thistledown in lazy flight More fragile than an orchid's tender petals; More delicately patterned than old lace; Vanishing at a touch, a breath—and leaving A glint of moisture as its only trace. Yet soon its myraid sisters from the sky Will overwhelm the hills; the fields will lie _ Vanquished—dis¢overing in this frail ice-flower, Winter's ethereal beauty.. And winter's power! i VV entiaeties Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the three prize winners in the 1951
