[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: A New YearFrontispiece]
The  Place  of  Relief  Society 
in  the  Indian  Program 
Elder  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Indian  Relations  Department  of  the  Annual  General 
Relief  Society  Conference,  October  3,  1951] 
I  
AM  very  happy  to  be  with  you 
today  to  take  part  in  this  Re- 
lief Society  conference  and 
represent  the  Indian  Relations 
committee  on  this  program. 
We  have  been  most  gratified 
with  the  excellent  work  of  our  Re- 
lief Societies  among  the  Indian 
peoples.  There  is  a  real  challenge 
to  the  Relief  Society  in  this  work; 
and  it  seems  to  me  you  are  organ- 
ized and  have  the  type  of  program 
that  these  people  greatly  need. 
Laying  the  foundation  for  what 
I  want  to  say,  I  would  like  to  quote 
from  the  Nephite  record,  one  from 
the  writings  of  Nephi,  one  from  a 
statement  of  the  Savior,  and  one 
from  Mormon. 
When  Lehi  spoke  to  his  children 
and  likened  the  house  of  Israel  to 
an  olive  tree,  he  spoke  of  the  nat- 
ural branches  being  broken  off  and 
a  time  when  the  blessings  of  the 
covenant  race  would  be  restored 
through  the  Gentiles.  The  breth- 
ren of  Nephi  did  not  understand 
what  their  father  meant,  so  they 
asked  Nephi  about  it.  Nephi  said 
this  to  them: 
And  now,  the  thing  which  our  father 
meaneth  concerning  the  grafting  in  of 
the  natural  branches  through  the  ful- 
ness of  the  Gentiles,  is,  that  in  the  latter 
days,  when  our  seed  shall  have  dwindled 
in  unbelief,  yea,  for  the  space  of  many 
years,  and  many  generations  after  the 
Messiah  shall  be  manifested  in  body  un- 
Poge  76 
to  the  children  of  men,  then  shall  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  of  the  Messiah  come 
unto  the  Gentiles,  and  from  the  Gen- 
tiles unto  the  remnant  of  our  seed. 
And  at  that  day  shall  the  remnant  of 
our  seed  know  that  they  are  of  the  house 
of  Israel,  and  that  they  are  the  covenant 
people  of  the  Lord;  and  then  shall  they 
know,  and  come  to  the  knowledge  of 
their  forefathers,  and  also  to  the  gospel 
of  their  Redeemer,  which  was  ministered 
unto  their  fathers  by  him;  wherefore, 
they  shall  come  to  the  knowledge  of  their 
Redeemer  and  the  very  points  of  his 
doctrine,  that  they  may  know  how  to 
come  unto  him  and  be  saved. 
And  then  at  that  day  will  they  not  re- 
joice and  give  praise  unto  their  ever- 
lasting God,  their  rock  and  their  salva- 
tion?  (I  Nephi  15:13-15). 
When  the  Savior  appeared  to 
the  Nephites  he  gave  them  a  sign 
by  which  they  should  know  and 
understand  when  his  work  and 
word  would  commence  among 
them.  Now  there  were  three  points 
to  this  sign:  First,  it  had  to  do  with 
the  establishment  of  God's  Church 
among  the  Gentiles  in  this  land  of