[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Replica of Yesteryear]

"DEAR God, please don't let him see me cry," silently prayed Alice, amid the clamor of puffing trains and shouting people. The bustle within the station and the buoyancy of the youthful crowd stirred no excitement within her being, rather her heart hung as a heavy anchor within her breast.

The green lantern flashed at the end of the train and "All Aboard" echoed down the corridors of the track. Ray's friends, one by one, dropped from the hissing train. Ray's arm swooped in an arc of farewell as he shouted across the bedlam, "So long, fellows, see you when the war's won!"

Like a never-slumbering refrain, the words rang in Alice's ears—the same words of Jim a year ago. Replica of yesteryear, thought Alice. Now it's my baby. Dear God, he must not see me cry.

"Well, Mom and Pop, this is it!" Boyishly he took his father's hand and his free arm crept around his mother's waist. "Don't worry, I'll be all right."

Alice vainly tried to think of something witty to ease the moment of tension. Her mind was dead until she caught Ray's kiddish grin as his white teeth flashed in the sun-browned face. Automatically, probably from long habit, she said, "Don't forget to brush your teeth."

"When I'm an old man with gummers, you will still tell me that, Mom." Momentarily the tense moment was broken, and the three of them burst into laughter. The train hissed impatiently and gave a lurch that fairly bumped Alice and Alex from the train platform. With the ease of a young animal, Ray jumped from the platform, reached up a helping hand to his mother and helped her down. He gave Alice a quick kiss, grasped his father's hand, swung himself onto the moving steps and shouted something which sounded like, "It will be all right this time." Those hastily shouted words made Alice realize that Ray, too, had never ceased grieving for Jim.

Korea! I hate the word, thought Alice. As if one son is not enough. Her hatred had no particular bearing against country or people. It was the word she hated. The word stabbed as a knife. It left a hopeless, aching pain. There was no relief from this pain. "Lost over Korea" the message had read.

Alex gripped Alice's arm. Together they watched the train become a diminishing object, leaving only a cloud of smoke rising toward the sky. Seconds passed. As the train and earth became one, they slowly turned and silently walked toward the car. Once Alex slyly raised his bifocals and wiped his eyes with the back of his hand, almost as if the use of his handkerchief might call too much attention to the act.

Inside the car, Alice gave way to the tears she had struggled so long not to shed.

"Now, now, Mother," comforted Alex. Patting her shoulder, he pulled his handkerchief from his pocket, wiped his eyes, and put the handkerchief into Alice's hand.

THE weeks slowly passed, brightened only by Ray's letters. In his boyish, scrawly handwriting he told about camp, new scenes, and new companions. Alice feverishly read each letter. After satisfying herself of there being no mention of "going over," she then slowly read and digested each detail of the missives.

The cheerfulness and gaiety of Ray's letters seemed to push her fears into the background. When apprehension seemed to be lulled into an almost forgotten memory, then came word that he was "moving over."

Alice tried to overcome the feeling of oppression that engulfed her. She knew that Alex suffered beneath his seeming cheerfulness. For this reason she went out of her way to be gay herself, but she was always left with the feeling that she had not played her part successfully.

She ran across the street a little more often to see Mary Hanks and her invalid husband. She made it a point always to take a cake, a pitcher of cool juices, or something to brighten their day. But she usually came away with the feeling that she had not really eased their burden and she still had the weight of sorrow in her heart.

In her struggle to analyze this feeling and fight against it she remembered her grandmother saying that those who seemed happiest very often had the greatest sorrow to bear.

The days crawled by on tortoise legs and slowly turned into months, broken only by one letter from Ray. This letter was somewhat cryptic, carrying no details nor hint of boyish gaiety, but said he was well and that he thought of them often. It was hard to read between the lines.

Christmas season came and the town was dressed in festive array of pine and holly, sprinkled generously with a robe of white velvet. As Alice walked through the town on an errand she thought that each house told its story. The homes where someone was away were decorated very meagerly—maybe a tiny tree could be glimpsed behind the curtain—sometimes a simple candle gleamed in the window. At these homes it seemed the hand of lavishness had been stayed as if too much display might be a mark of disloyalty to some loved one far away. On the other hand, not having felt the emptiness of a loved one's absence, the fortunate homes were bedecked with gaily adorned trees, bright-tinseled windows, and red-wreathed doors.

ALEX had always brought home the Christmas tree. Even last year, although Jim was away, he had carted a tree home from the corner stand.

Christmas will be the hardest of all, thought Alice. She would be able to carry the tree decorating off with a show of enjoyment, if it just were not for the part about the candles. The candles worried Alice most of all. She remembered last year, and how Ray had cleared his throat with great difficulty before he, in a choky sort of way, sang:

Light the candles on the tree.
One for Mom, one for Pop,
One for Jim and one for me.

This was an old rhyme they had sung since the boys were old enough to understand stories. Alice had told them of her girlhood Christmases when wax candles graced the Christmas tree as there was no electricity in her rural home. The boys had begged for wax candles. She, eager to satisfy their eager demands, had brought four bright candles. Placing the four simple candles upon the brightly globed tree, along with the singing of the little jingle, had become the big event of the decorating scheme. Each Christmas the ritual had been carried out.

Try as she might, Alice could not push last year from her mind. "One for Mom, one for Pop, one for Jim, and one for me." Ray had barely finished the last of the rhyme when the knocker had chimed in the hallway and Alex had received the never-to-be-forgotten telegram.

Now, three days before Christmas, Alex lugged the tree into the house with a cheerful, "How's that, Mother? A beauty, huh?"

"It's beautiful, Alex," Alice responded with forced enjoyment, thinking all the while, dear Alex, what an actor you are.

Christmas Eve came all too soon. Together, with simulated gaiety, they took the trimmings from the attic and dressed the tree in all its splendor. In spite of the puns and the jokes, each sensed the ache in the other.

The lights were tested and placed just so, the tinsel was draped with meticulous care, gay Santas were suspended from the branches and teetered in happy abandon, and the golden angel, planted on the uppermost twig, reigned in all her glory. But one small blue box remained unopened on the mantel. Alice and Alex purposely avoided it. Each was waiting for the other to suggest that it be opened.

Alex cleared his throat, and with a gesture of nonchalance, said, "Here's something we forgot to open."

Casually he handed the box to Alice.

Not to be outdone, she slowly untied the string, gently lifted the crumpled tissue, and slowly removed the four candles from the box. She handed two of them to Alex and kept two for herself.

ALEX spent a long, long time attaching them to the boughs, while Alice sought special places for her candles. After considerable fixing and unfixing, the candles stood tall and graceful, awaiting the match that would change them into glowing beacons.

Alex and Alice, like two frightened children, looked at each other. The rhyme could not come from their dry throats.

The knocker on the door broke the silence, and the chimes began their usual peel. Moving as an actor in a well-rehearsed scene, Alex opened the door and automatically reached out his hand for the telegram.

Alice, as if her knees could not bear the weight of her body, sank into the big chair. As Alex handed her the unopened message she closed her eyes for a moment and then mechanically tore the flap and began to read.

Having read, she laid her head on Alex's shoulder and gave way to the pent-up tears. Alex placed his arm firmly around her waist and studied the message. Having drunk of its contents, he placed it on the mantel, took his handkerchief from his pocket, and wiped Alice's tear-stained face. He took hold of Alice's hand and said, "Come, Mother, we haven't yet sung the rhyme."

Alice lifted her face, blinked back the tears and, greatly off-key, joined with Alex in the rhyme.

The leaping flames from the fireplace splashed the mantel and threw golden shadows over the words of the telegram:

Light the candles on the tree, one for Mom, one for Pop, one for Jim, and one for me. I've found Jim.

Ray
