[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Footprints of timid hare and quail, and on our snow-filled lawn, Were pheasants, while our young calf shared his breakfast with a fawn. Sixty Years | Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, January 1 and January 15, 1892 "For THE RicHTs oF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" THE DAYS OF KIRTLAND: In the early days of the Church in Kirtland the Latter-day Saints were generally very zealous in good works, and very united; they were as humble as little children, and loved one another with that peculiar love that the Gospel always creates, inspires and fosters; and they were desirous of being united, and on an equality one with another, so that no feeling of disunion should arise on account of position or circumstance. Do the Latter-day Saints in this day need to be reminded that they are all of one great family, and that the Lord is not a respector of persons, because of wealth or station; but the humble and meek ones though poor and in straitened circumstances are as near to Him as the rich, and popular, and the learned, who are wise in the things of the world.
Wealth brings with it greater responsibility, for we understand men and women are only stewards over these things in this world for the good of humanity, therefore the wise steward remembers to put his wealth to good usury, that he may render a good account to the Great Master when he shall appear before Him.—Selected
THE NEW ERA
Oh! Hush the throbbings of the pent up heart! Why will the tears of long-gone sorrow start? Banish the griefs—put miseries aside— Let joy replete in merry. Measure glide— Yet, pause! Methinks I hear the people say, Another era has begun today. SS —E. B. W. WOMAN'S OPINION: I would that all good women might receive the benefit of the sublime teachings of the martyred Prophet Joseph in regard to woman whose friend he was and whose sayings I often recognize emanating from the pen of writers who have unwittingly adopted some of his views.—M. A. P. H. DECEMBER 23, 1891: This day is the anniversary of the birth of the Prophet | Joseph Smith, who was faithful to the last. Through the inspiration of God he organized the Relief Society on the 17th day of March 1842, in Nauvoo, Illinois, of which I had the honor of being a member, and a few yet remain to testify to his words. The Prophet said, "we did not conceive the greatness of the work we were laying the foundation of."—Zina D. H. Young FOR THOSE WE LOVE For those we love we work and live, To us their lives are Heaven's choicest gift That makes us e'en forget ourselves, And from our selfish aims our feelings lift. —E. R. S. SINGING MOTHERS: Ah, what does the world owe to the mothers, the patient, loving, song-singing mothers? Who can tell? How many lives have been turned, changed completely by the encouraging smile of the mother, or the song, coming full of love and gladness to win her child back to the path of righteousness.: —Bertha Packard Englet Page 30
Wil woman power activating both good and evil throughout the nations, it is most urgent that American women rise fully to their obligations and opportunities. American women are being accused of marked negligence in recent voting. It is the obligation of all women citizens to exercise the franchise which women struggled so many years to attain. If women _ keep thoroughly informed on events between elections, they will be able to vote intelligently and be a great force in combating evils. ISS Utah for 1952 is Marilyn (Bunny) Reese, a senior in Box Elder High School, and vicepresident of the student body. The seventeen-year-old girl won the talent contest with a dramatic reading. AMONG the contributors to The Relief. Society Magazine, whose poems have been accepted for publication in the leading national women's magazines during the past year are: Christie Lund Coles, Margery S. Stewart, Katherine Fernelius Larsen, Berta Huish Christensen, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Lael W. Hill, and Vesta P. Crawford. The magazines in which these Latter-day Saint women have been represented include: Good Housekeeping Magazine, Ladies Home Journal, Farm Journal, Household Magazine, and others.