[Vol39 | January 1952 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Salt of the Earth]
history  upon  the  earth;  his  periods  of  ad- 
vancement and  retrogression,  the  govern- 
ments and  laws — divine  and  human — to 
which  he  has  been  subject  through  the 
ages,  with  a  declaration  that  it  is  the 
right  of  Jesus  Christ  to  rule  and  reign 
upon  the  Earth. 
Also  a  declaration  that  the  hand  of 
the  Almighty  has  been  over  the  nations, 
limiting  them  in  their  exercise  of  power, 
and  turning  their  designs  to  His  own 
purposes.  The  facts  of  history  are  in- 
terpreted in  the  light  of  the  revealed 
Word  of  God,  and  the  final  destiny  of 
the  Earth  and  Man  is  foreshadowed. 
The  revelations  of  the  Lord  teach 
us  a  very  different  story  in  regard 
to  man,  where  he  came  from,  why 
he  is  here,  and  where  he  is  going, 
to  anything  that  you  can  get  in  any 
of  the  textbooks  on  sociology  or 
kindredologies    dealing   with    man. 
Page  4 
The  first  man  placed  upon  the 
earth  was  a  perfect  being,  a  son  of 
God.  He  was  Michael,  the  Arch- 
angel, who  had  reached  great  dis- 
tinction and  power  before  he  ever 
came  to  this  earth,  who  helped  to 
frame  this  earth  while  he  was  yet  a 
spirit,  just  as  our  Lord  and  Savior 
Jesus  Christ  was  a  spirit  before  he 
was  born  in  Bethlehem. 
Michael,  after  being  placed  up- 
on this  earth,  is  known  as  Adam. 
He  received  his  tabernacle  of  flesh 
from  the  dust  of  this  earth,  he  be- 
longs to  it;  but  he  was  one  of  the 
greatest  of  the  intelligences  and 
was  sent  here  to  this  earth  to  stand 
at  the  head  of  his  posterity,  to  rule 
over  them  through  the  ages  of 
eternity.  We  are  indebted  to  him 
for  more  than  we  think.  Through 
him  we  get  these  tabernacles  of 
flesh  and  bones,  tabernacles  for  our 
spirits.  Our  spirits  are  the  begot- 
ten sons  and  daughters  of  God;  so 
is  Adam's,  but  he  was  sent  here  for 
the  purpose  of  peopling  this  earth 
with  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones. 
And  the  Lord  gave  him  com- 
mandments after  he  was  driven  out 
of  the  Garden  of  Eden,  revealed  to 
him  the  plan  of  salvation,  and  he 
taught  his  children,  and  he  set  up 
a  government.  It  was  a  perfect 
government,  for  Adam  listened  to 
the  counsels  of  the  Almighty,  his 
Father,  and  our  Father.    He  taught

PURPOSE  OF  WRITING  "THE  PROGRESS  OF  MAN"  5 
his    children    principles    of    divine  to  give  you  my  law  and  set  your 
truth  and  endeavored  to  establish  people,  your  descendants  on  high, 
them  in  the  knowledge  and  under-  and  they  shall  be  my  people  and  I 
standing  of  the  things  of  the  king-  will  recognize  them  as  my  people, 
dom  of  God.  the  chosen  people." 
We  read  in  the  scriptures  that,  And  through  that  blessing  there 
in  course  of  time,  when  children  came  the  house  of  Israel  and  among 
were  born  they  began  to  rebel,  all  the  nations  upon  the  face  of  the 
many  of  them,  not  all  of  them,  but  earth,  Israel,  apparently,  so  far  as 
a  great  many  of  his  posterity  (and  the  other  side  of  the  world  is  con- 
he  had  a  numerous  posterity)  cerned,  was  the  only  people  who 
turned  away  from  his  teachings,  were  ruled  by  prophets  and  received 
Eventually,  after  Adam  had  filled  commandments  and  were  governed 
his  mission  upon  the  face  of  the  by  the  revelations  coming  from  the 
earth,   the   children   had   forgotten  Lord. 
the  commandments  of  God  and  The  Lord  had  led  a  people  out 
had  rejected  his  government,  and  into  this  part  of  the  country  and 
they  set  up  governments  of  their  called  them  the  Jaredites.  He  started 
own.  They  became  so  corrupt  that  them  off,  too,  long  before  the  days 
the  Lord  had  to  destroy  them  and  of  Abraham,  with  his  command- 
start  over  again.  ments,  and  with  prophets  to  lead 
Noah  and  his  sons  started  out  them.  But  they,  too,  rebelled,  and 
well.  Their  first  government  was  a  Israel  rebelled  and  the  punishments 
theocracy  in  which  the  Lord  spoke,  of  the  Lord  came  upon  them  and 
and  through  which  he  governed,  from  all  the  way  down  from  the 
But  it  was  not  so  many  years  after  very  beginning  of  time  man  has 
the  flood  when  men  again  became  been  rebellious  and  has  refused, 
rebellious  and  turned  away  from  with  few  exceptions  and  short  pe- 
the  truth.  They  began  to  spread  riods  of  time,  to  be  directed  by  di- 
out  over  the  face  of  the  earth,  they  vine  revelation, 
had  ambitions,  they  were  filled  with  But  because  of  men's  own  desire 
the  spirit  of  selfishness,  and  so  they  and  ambition  to  rule,  to  have  au- 
rejected  the  commandments  from  thority,  they  have  usurped  the  pow- 
the  government  the  Lord  had  given  er  and  set  up  their  own  govern- 
them,  and  set  up  governments  of  ments,  and  the  world  from  the  very 
their  own.  And  so  wickedness  beginning  has  been  in  turmoil,  in 
once  more  began  to  prevail  and  trouble,  in  wars,  and  bloodshed,  be- 
spread over  the  face  of  the  earth.  cause  man  would  not  let  his  Father 
in  heaven  rule  him,  but   usurped 
''THE   Lord  called  a  young   man  the  powers  unto  himself. 
out  of  the  land  of  the  Chaldeans  Now  the  purpose  of  this  book  is 
and  said  to  him,  "Because  of  the  to  show  this  whole  history  from  the 
wickedness  of  mankind  I  am  going  beginning  to  the  end,  with  the  pe- 
to  place  my  Priesthood,  my  author-  riods   of   righteousness   when   men 
ity,  on  you,  and  I  am  going  to  make  did  hearken,   and  how   they  were 
covenants  with  you,  and  I  am  going  blessed!    showing    how    the    judg-

6  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1952 
ments  of  the  Almighty  came  upon  It  is  true  that  he  was  left  to  work 
them  when  they  rebelled.    And  it  out,  through  the  use  of  his  facul- 
sets  forth  the  great  work,  the  plan  ties,  many  of  nature's  great  secrets, 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  in  regard  but  the  Lord   did  not  leave  him 
to  the  destiny  of  the  hunran  family,  helpless,   but   instructed  him,   and 
They  who  are  willing  to  keep  his  he  was  inspired  by  the  Spirit  of  the 
commandments   under  all   circum-  Lord. 
stances  are  eventually  gathered  in-         You  are  told,  and  it  is  also  writ- 
to  his  fold  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  ten  in  so  many  textbooks,  that  men 
over  which  Jesus  Christ,  the  King,  have  come  up  to  the  stage  of  civi- 
shall  rule  and  reign.  lization  which  we  now  possess,  by 
long,  very  long,  periods  of  time 
1UOW,  I  said  that  man  has  always  from  an  age  of  savagery.  This  book 
been  rebellious.  I  want  to  read  will  tell  you  that  the  mental  de- 
to  you  a  few  ideas  from  one  of  these  generacy  and  savagery  which  pre- 
chapters.  The  first  man,  as  I  have  vail  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  and 
said,  was  highly  intelligent.  The  have  prevailed  upon  it,  have  come 
world  doesn't  teach  you  that.  It  through  men's  wickedness.  Man 
teaches  you  that  man  in  the  begin-  was  intelligent  in  the  beginning, 
ning  was  not  intelligent,  that  he  And  there  is  such  a  thing  as  restro- 
developed  from  lower  forms  until  gression  as  well  as  advancement, 
he  reached  the  stage  where  he  could  And  without  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
be  called  a  man  through  his  pro-  man  cannot  progress.  And  we  have 
gression.  The  first  man  placed  up-  seen  that  from  the  beginning,  na- 
on  this  earth  was  an  intelligent  be-  tions  have  risen  to  great  power, 
ing,  created  in  the  image  of  God,  they  have  ruled  the  earth  so  far 
possessed  of  wisdom  and  knowl-  as  they  understood  the  earth,  and 
edge  and  power  to  communicate  his  they  have  decayed.  They  have 
thoughts  in  a  language  both  oral  reached  a  stage  of  civilization  where 
and  written  which  was  superior  to  God  was  forgotten,  where  immoral- 
anything  to  be  found  on  the  earth  ity  took  the  place  of  virtue,  wicked- 
today.  This  may  sound  very  sweep-  ness  and  vice  the  place  of  righteous- 
ing  and  dogmatic  to  those  who  ness,  and  then  the  Lord  has  placed 
hold  to  the  other  view,  but  it  is  not  his  hand  upon  them  and  they  have 
any  more  so  than  their  statement  to  fallen.  That  has  been  the  nature 
the  contrary.  Moreover,  I  do  not  of  man  all  the  way  down  the  ages, 
say  it  myself,  but  merely  repeat  One  man,  in  writing,  saw  this  pic- 
what  the  Lord  has  said,  and,  surely,  ture  very  clearly,  Lord  Byron,  and 
the  Creator,  above  all  others,  ought  he  wrote  after  speaking  of  the  rise 
to  know.  and  ^11  of  peoples  as  he  went  over 
The  first  man  was  instructed  by  the  countries  and  saw  the  ruins 
the  best  teacher  man  ever  had,  for  of  the  glory  of  the  past: 
he  was  taught  by  God  and  spoke  .,,,,,«, 
t.u     i  „   «  ~c  o^  A/r^nj-  u;~"U    ;n  There  is  the  Moral  of  all  human  tales; 
the  language  of  the  Most  High   in  ^  but  ^  same  rehearsal  of  ^  past; 
which    angels    conversed,    this    Ian-  First   Freedom,    and   then   Glory— when 
guage  he   taught   to   his   children.  that  fails,

PURPOSE  OF  WRITING  'THE  PROGRESS  OF  MAN"  7 
Wealth,    vice,    corruption — barbarism    at  that   we   might   avoid    the   pitfalls, 
last-                   ,  ,  the    wickedness,    and    the    destiny 
And  History,  with  all  her  volumes  vast,  ,                   ,                    „*.,•«„  ,,£4.^ 
Hath  but  one  page.  that  nas  overtaken  one  nation  after 
another  clear  down  to  the  end  of 
The  reason  for  writing  these  les-  time      Eventually,   the    Lord   will 
sons  in  the  book  was  to  place  be-  ^       his  Qwn  nati       his  own  ki 
ore  the  members  of  the  Church  *              earth  ^  be  damA 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  an  outline  or  _  .  '         .  .  , 
these   conditions   that   have   come  of  lts  unrighteousness, 
down   through   all   of   these   ages;  Now  I  see  our  time  is  gone,  so  I 
that  we  might  profit  by  the  experi-  will  say  the  Lord  bless  you,  and  I 
ence  of  the  past  and  accept  of  these  hope  that  you  get  some  good  out 
experiences   so    that   we   will    not  of  these  things  that  you  study.    In 
fall  into  the  same  forbidden  ways;  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 
cfaey   vva'tt  and  [Pray 
Ruth  H.  Chadwick 
The  Marys  of  today  walk  hand  in  hand 
With  her  along  those  paths  through  Galilee; 
Alone,  like  her,  they  long  unceasingly 
To  follow  him  across  the  alien  sand. 
They  know  her  emptiness  through  endless  days; 
The  numbed  yet  throbbing  pulse  when  time  stands  still; 
The  grim  imaginings  that  stalk  the  will 
And  choke  resolve  to  walk  with  cheerful  ways. 
They  know  her  helplessness,  her  fierce  desire 
To  spare  her  son  the  treacheries  of  men; 
But  faith,  undaunted,  nurtures  hope  again, 
And  trusting  hearts  defy  the  inner  fire. 
They  wait  and  pray!  Through  him  at  Calvary, 
They  glimpse  the  glory  of  eternity. 
of r tend  of  the  JLord 
Josephine  J.  Harvey 
He  was  the  Prophet  of  the  latter  day, 
Chosen  of  the  Lord  to  lead  his  way. 
Holding  the  keys  of  this  dispensation, 
He  sent  the  everlasting  gospel  forth. 
Living  great,  he  walked  with  courage  to  the  end, 
He  was  a  man  the  Lord  addressed  as  "friend." 
Though  he  was  unlearned  in  the  eyes  of  men, 
He  drank  from  the  fountain  of  eternal  life; 
Through  his  humble  hands,  the  Lord  has  hurled 
The  torch  of  truth  to  light  a  darkened  world1. 
Honor  and  glory  are  his  from  age  to  age, 
Who  lifted  a  lamp  on  history's  page.