[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | May | Issue: 19 | Title: THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE. | Author: Unknown]

	THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE.

	The visit of Susan B. Anthony to Salt
Lake City, will be an event of great impor-
tance, and one which those who know her
personally, will hail with joy, and certainly
those who have never had the pleasure of
hearing her before, will come eagerly to
listen to her grandly simple eloquence.
Miss Anthony is a rare personality, dis-
tinctively original in style, and charming in
her quaker simplicity of dress and de-
meanor. She has not only grown old
gracefully, but intellectually, she shows in
every line of her face and every curve of
her straight and slender figure, that attain-
ment of wisdom and strength of mind and
character which denotes unusual develop-
ment of the soul. Miss Anthony’s powers
of endurance are something wonderful; if
weary she recuperates quickly, and never
excuses herself from duty. Of her it may
truly be said, “she is one of the most
heroic figures in American history.” But
Miss Anthony will very soon be here now;
on the 12th of May she is expected to arrive,
and we hope the public will turn out
enmasse, to see and hear her, and those of
her party who will make the trip with her,
and who will be expected to take part in
the Conference, to be held in this city on
the 13th and 14th of May.
	The Rev. Anna Shaw who will accom-
pany Miss Anthony, is a woman of superior
attainments and marked ability. She is an
M. D., as well as a D. D., her history even

[Column 2] 
in brief is most interesting; she is bright,
vivacious, versatile and humorous. Miss
Shaw besides her titles, D. D. aud M. D. is
vice-Presideut at large of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association,
and also vice-President of the National
Council of Women, and holds other posi-
tions of honor but of less importance. She
was born in Newcastle on Tyne England,
but came to America with her parents
when four years old, and settled in Mass.,
later on they moved to Michigan; Miss
Shaw entered Albion College Michigan in
1872 and in 1875 entered the theological
department of the Boston University from
which she graduated in 1878. While in the
theological class she studied on week days,
and preached on Sundays. During her last
year she was paster of the Methodist
Episcopal Church of Hingham, Mass. Her
second pastorate was in East Dennis on
Cape Cod, where she remained seven years.
During this time a Congregational Church
without a pastor asked her to supply the
place until a minister could be obtained for
the position, but the congregation were so
well pleased with her services that she con-
tinued for six years to preach twice every
Sunday, in her own Church in the morn-
ing, and in the Congregational Church in
the afternoon.
	During that time she applied to the New
England Methodist Episcopal Church for
ordination, but was refused on account of
sex; though she passed the best examination
of any candidate; the case was appealed to
the general conference in Cincinnati in 1880
and the refusal confirmed. The lady then
applied to the Methodist Protestant Church
and received ordination on the 12th of
October 1880—the first woman ordained in
that denomination.
	Later Miss Shaw became more deeply
nterested in practical reforms, and took to
the lecture field on reform topics; she has
sometimes been reproached for not devoting
herself to preaching the Gospel, but her
answer is “that in adovcating the enfran-
chisement of women, the temperance
movement and other reforms she is teach-
ing applied Christianity, and that she has
exchanged the pulpit where she preached
twice a week, for the platform where she
preaches every day and often three times
on Sunday.”
	The other ladies coming are from Colora-
da and Wyoming and are fine speakers, and
also voters in their respective States.


