umphant song. I stood still and listened. 
“It is a good omen,” I said. I called on all
the Saints and bade them farewell in case I
did not return. Letters came frequently.
“Don’t come yet, mother,” one said, “If
things are worse we will let you know.”
After fast Sunday meeting at Clerkenwell
some of the Saints returned with us to tea
at Penton Street. A young sister sat next to
me whom I observed did not eat anything,
and was silent. “Are you not well, sister,”
I asked. Then she told me she was going
to the hospital next day to have a growth
at the base of her great toe removed (it was


about the size of an English walnut), “but 
I fear the knife,” she said. 
	I who was also there under a great sus-
pense could appreciate her feelings. I en-
couraged her to have faith, then said, “If we
were only at home that you might receive a
blessing before undergoing the ordeal!” Or
it may be that it could be removed without
the knife.” Sister, can I not get a blessing
here?” she said. I referred her to the pre-
siding Elder, who said, “certainly, sister;”
then to me, “take her up into your little
room and give her a blessing.” At Clerken-
well, after evening meeting we parted and I 
was to visit her just as soon as she had un-
dergone the operation. 
	Next day my suspense ended in a dread
certainty as regards George’s baby, for the
letter said he had died. George himself
was critically ill. I wrote to President Ly-
man who said, “Do not go, sister, if you do
you will always regret it. It would take you
over two weeks to get home and you might
meet your son walking down the street when
you arrived, but if you feel you cannot re-
main I will give you an honorable release to
return.” During this time I had not heard
from the sister, but one day on returning to
headquarters behold she came walking to-
ward me, a happy smile on her face. “Can
you walk so soon ?” “I did not have it re-
moved,” she said, “It simply disappeared!”
And she was well. 
	The joy this incident gave me enabled me
to bear the trial I was under, so that when
a letter came saying things were well again
at home, I was almost overcome. 
	A letter came from Watford, they wanted
the President to send a missionary sister
down there. They had been troubled by an
apostate spirit, the Elders had been mobbed,
etc. “Are you afraid to go,” asked the
President. “Not if you send me,” I replied. 
So to Watford I went and the months I
spent there were now ended. My daughter
May had finished her school year and came
over to me there, which was a great com-
fort to me. We were to go to the new head-
quarters, 97 Farleigh Road, when we
reached London, and felt so thankful for
the great improvement. At home in our
own pretentious dwelling after the many
years of renting undesirable 36 Penton St.
‘“London, mamma,” May calls out, “have
you been dreaming all this time?” “Only a
day dream, May.”—LYDIA D. ALDER.


