RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sis-
ter Sarah Ward Hickenlooper, who departed
this life July 12, 1910, after a brief illness.
	Sister Hickenlooper was born on the 8th of
July, 1819, in Leicester, Leicestershire, England,
and emigrated to Utah in 1850. She was mar-
ried to Bishop William Hickenlooper on Nov.
11th, of the same year. She was the mother of
four children, three of whom preceded her to
the other side, the last being a son thirty-one
years of age; this was a severe trial, but she
bore it with great fortitude and resignation, as
she did every other test that was made of her
faith. She shared in all the difficulties and af-
flictions which the Saints were forced to under-
go in the early settlement of these valleys. At
the time of the move south she remained behind
to take care of sister Robbins, a sick woman
who could not be moved, and was left practical-
ly alone, showing the courage of which she was
possessed.
	She was a member of the Sixth Ward Relief
Society in Salt Lake City, from its first organ-
ization, and during that time held the positions
of teacher and treasurer, both of which she
filled with honor to herself and satisfaction to
those she labored with.
	And we, the officers and members of the
Sixth Ward Relief Society, feel to acknowledge
the hand of God in her removal—that she was
permitted to depart without any severe suffer-
ing or distress—that her last moments were
peaceful and serene. And, be it
	Resolved, That we treasure in our hearts the
many noble traits of character which she pos-
sessed; that we strive to remember the many
fervent testimonies which she has borne, and
the noble example which she has set among us;
that we strive to emulate her many virtues and
so shape our lives that we may merit the exalta-
tion which we feel sure she has attained to
through her integrity to the truth.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, recorded in our min-
utes, and one sent to the “Woman’s Exponent”
for publication.
			ELLEN R. WATSON, Prest.
			ALICE BUTTERWORTH,
			MARGARET LEATHAM, Couns.
