A LOVING TRIBUTE.
PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA
	W. SMITH.
	With the tears that
dim our eyes, and the
love that wells up in our
hearts for the beloved
President just departed
to that “better land”
there is also mingled a 
sort of triumphant joy,
at the thought of her
glorious entrance into
the presence of the royal
victors, who have gone
on before to the higher
court, and who were
there, no doubt, to bid
her, whom we miss from
our midst, a joyous wel-
come to the heavenly
paradise of peace and
rest.

“No long dark night is there,
No light from sun or silvery moon is given;
But Christ the Lamb of God all bright and fair,
Illumes the city with effulgence rare,
The glorious light of heaven.”

	No words of ours, however tender, can
express the love in our hearts for the faith-
ful and true woman of whom we are now
bereft; we know and realize that we can-
not have her with us here again, but her
living presence has so permeated our lives,
that we shall ever feel, that she is a part of
all our movements in the great work for
womanhood with which she has so many
years been identified; yes, from its very
inception; no other woman of all the chosen
few who met together on that memorable
occasion, when the Prophet of the Lord de-
clared in unmistakeable terms that the time
had come to organize the sisters of the
Church for higher development.
	Three score and eight years Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith has been connected with
the Relief Society. For more than half a 
century she has stood a pillar of strength in


[Column 1]
Israel. A pattern of excellence and of sim-
plicity to all the daughters of Zion. Surely
we may say of this mother of mothers in
the words of Solomon, the wise man.

	“Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou 
excellest them all.”

	All that can be said or written of this
saintly woman, will not perhaps satisfy those
who loved her so deeply and sincerely, but
it is the last tribute we can pay to those
who leave us for that land of beauty and of
rest where they who have lived lives of
purity on earth have entered in through the
shining portals, nevermore to know sorrow
or parting.
	We who have put our hand to the plow
must not turn back because one who was
our teacher, our exemplar, our good com-
rade has gone on ahead and left us to
forge our own way perchance through
rough and untrod paths; be of good cour-
age, let us not look backward but press on
toward “the prize of the high calling” and
never grow weary in well-doing.
	There are still new fields to traverse and
heights to climb, in the realm of woman’s
work in spiritual growth and intelligence;
what a mission awaits the young sister-
hood. We have barely seen the auspicious
dawn of woman’s era of which we talk so
freely. Are we not glad that we have be-
fore us greater things to accomplish and
wider scope for our more efficient endeavors.
	The noble example of the heroic women
of the past in the early days of the Church,
laboring under great difficulties, driven from
place to place, sometimes without shelter,
and yet patient, submissive, and prayerful,
full of that sublime faith which never falters,
these women who have been the standard-
bearers to light the way of progress for the
younger generation are nearly all gone, and
therefore we may be excused if we speak
their praise, and proclaim their good deeds;
and we say to the young women of today,
go and do likewise, and more abundantly.
	This is not a pen picture of the beautiful
life and character of Sister Bathsheba, whose
name is enshrined in the hearts of those who
know her sterling worth and who loved her
for her many noble characteristics, but is
more a tribute of love, and at some time in
the near future a true history of her long
sweet life must be written, and left on rec-
ord for those who will carry forward the
work hereafter.
	Many of us know how proud she. was of
having been born in Virginia, and looking
back to that period one seems to see the
picture portrayed by her of her home on
the farm and its surroundings, the girl her-
self on horseback, fearless and free canter-
ing over the fields and breathing in the pure
air; to her this was the greatest luxury. It
is indeed a lovely country, woods and fields,
and streams of pure sparkling water, and
an abundance of the good things of life.
	Into this Southern home of plenty and
thrift the Gospel came, brought by Elders
of the Church of Latter-day Saints. The
Bigler family were converted. Bathsheba
with the others, and strange to say, one of
the young Elders who carried the glad tid-
ing s of great joy into that home was the
gifted young Elder George A. Smith. Some
years after George A. Smith and Bathsheba
Bigler were married; it was a true love
match, and proved a very happy one. Elder

[Column 2]
George A. Smith became a very distin-
guished man, was called to fill important
positions of honor and of trust in the Church
and in the state, and always by his side
sharing his honors and rejoicing in his pros-
perity and achievements was the wife of his
youth, true and faithful in all the walks of
life. Many years they journeyed on togeth-
er, through the various changes that come
into the lives of the saints, who yield obedi-
ence to the Gospel requirements.
	Finally in 1876, death entered their home
and the faithful and devoted husband was
called to a higher sphere. Sister Bathshe-
ba Smith the fond and devoted wife, felt
she could not be left to tread life’s paths
alone without the loving companionship of
her husband; but with the heroic courage
of a true saint, he entreated her to live and
bear testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and the work of the Lord established
through his divine mission. This Sister
Bathsheba has faithfully fulfilled, thirty-four
years of widowhood, without murmur or
complaint she has borne the testimony that
her husband desired, and which she herself
delighted in giving to all the world by voice
and pen, borne it to thousands, and people
were always impressed with her words for
they carried conviction of sincerity and
truth.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith has gone to her
husband and her son (slain in the prime of
life by the Indians), and we miss her dear
face in all the accustomed places, her pass-
ing away was so quiet and peaceful that one
can scarcely realize the fact that we can
never see her on earth again. It is like one
going on a long journey without bidding
good bye.
	Her life was full to the brim of useful-
ness in the Master’s service, everywhere she
went she scattered blessings, and her favor-
ite saying at parting with her friends was
“peace be unto thee, peace to this house;”
and her mission was one of peace and bless-
ing. How beautiful the scriptural saying:
“He giveth his beloved sleep,” and how ap-
plicable to this blessed woman—truly she
fell asleep and passed peacefully away with-
out a struggle or even a sigh, it was scarcely
perceptible that her spirit had fled.
	Her demise occurred on Tuesday morn-
ing, September 20, 1910 at 10:15.
	The funeral services were held in the
large Tabernacle on Sunday September 25.
Sister Smith was the very first woman ever
buried from the Tabernacle. The building
was artistically draped in white, the cas-
ket was pure white and many of the flow-
ers, gifts of loving relatives and friends
were pure white. A large oil painting of
this queenly woman was hung on the great
Tabernacle organ and was a very signifi-
cant feature in the grouping of the gather-
ing. There seemed no death in all that great
assembly of people, it was like a sacred ser-
vice in a holy sanctuary.		E. B. W.

“So he bringeth them unto their desired haven.”
—Psalm cvii: 30.


