SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	SEPTEMBER, 1910


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM. 
PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
	It would be impossible in a brief notice of
our beloved President, sister and friend of
long years, to do any thing like justice to her
memory, or to write even a brief sketch of
her life, but we must make mention of her
recent demise, leaving the details of her life
until a later date.
	Our hearts are deeply touched, she had
been with us so long and we had hoped she
might remain with us a few years longer;
but our Heavenly Father has called her
home, and we feel to acknowledge his hand
in this, as in all the dispensations of his
Providence.
	Bathsheba W. Bigler was born May 3,
1823, in Shinnston, Harrison county, West
Virginia, and was the daughter of Mark
Bigler and Susannah Ogden; her father was
a Pennsylvanian, her mother from Mary-
land; she had a happy childhood in her dear
Southern home. When about fifteen years
old some Latter-day Saint Elders visited
that vicinity, and she heard them preach and
believed the message of salvation they
brought to the people, and in August, 1837
she was baptized into the Church. Most of
the Bigler family embraced the Gospel and
soon after they sold their possessions and
went to join the Saints in Missouri. On
their arrival they found the people in the
midst of mob violence; and the young girl
Bathsheba witnessed many of the terrible
scenes of that eventful period, that have
since been recorded in Church history. 
	After the troublous times in Missouri and
moving from place to place, the saints, most
of them, crossed over into Illinois, Brother
Bigler’s family with others; they went first
to Quincy, and subsequently to Commerce
afterwards Nauvoo, in 1840. Miss Bigler
had met her future husband in Virginia
when he was a young Elder preaching the
Gospel and renewed the acquaintance after
gathering with the Saints.
	July 25, 1841, George A. Smith and
Bathsheba W. Bigler were united in mar-
riage, the ceremony being performed by
Elder Don Carlos Smith; at that time Elder
George A. Smith was the youngest member
of the quorum of the twelve apostles. The
union and subsequent life was a very happy
one in every respect.
	While living in Nauvoo two children were
born to them, George Albert who lived to

[Column 2]
be eighteen years of age, (he was slain by
Navajo Indians in Southern Utah while fill-
ing a mission to the Moqui tribe of Indians,
November 2, 1860). The daughter Bath-
sheba born in Nauvoo July, 1844, is still
living, the mother of a very large and beau-
tiful family, her husband is also living,
Elder Clarence Merrill, both of this city.
	In 1846, Mrs. Smith with her husband
and family took part in the exodus from 
Illinois, and during that terrible journey
from the beautiful city Nauvoo to Winter
Quarters, they endured great hardships;
most of the exiles, indeed one might say all,
passed through such scenes of trials and dif-
ficulties, as are too dreadful to recall. The
company with which Apostle George A.
Smith and family came from Winter Quar-
ters here, reached the Valley in October,
1849.
	Since that time Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith has resided in Salt Lake City, except
during the time of the move South, when
the people vacated the city in 1858, but she
only remained away three months.
	The greater part of the life here of Pres-
ident George A. Smith and his family was
passed in the building known as the His-
torian’s Office on South Temple Street, just
east of main, and in that home President
George A. Smith died on September 1, 1876.
Sometime after her husband’s demise Sis-
ter Smith removed to the cottage on West
Temple, her home ever since leaving the
Historian’s Office.
	It is well known to the Latter-day Saints
that Sister B. W. Smith was a charter mem-
ber of the first Relief Society organized in
Nauvoo by Joseph Smith the Prophet, and
has continued in the work ever since. She
has filled many prominent positions of trust
and usefulness in this Society and in other
Church organizations, viz: Retrenchment,
Deseret Hospital, etc.
	In October, 1888 she was chosen and set
apart as Counselor to Sister Zina D. H.
Young, who had been selected President,
after the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow, and
when Sister Zina was called home by death
in 1901, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was
selected to fill the position, October 31, 1901,
and was sustained at a special conference
held November 10, 1901. Sister Smith filled
this position with dignity and grace up to
the time of her death; presided at all meet-
ings of the General Board twice a month,
beside occasional special meetings, and reg-
ular executive sessions of the Society, and
conferences twice a year. During the nine
years she has been president she has not
missed more than five of these meetings,
and has always been punctual. This is cer-
tainly a wonderful record and an excellent
example for the young women of Zion.
	When one considers that President Bath-
sheba W. Smith also presided in the Tem-
ple over the sisters there, and gave four days
in the week regularly to the Temple work,
summer and winter, besides her home duties,
one can see how diligent and industrious she
has been, and her days full of active use-
fulness, an example to all Israel.
	In the midst of her daily labors as it were,
Sister Smith was suddenly stricken down
on the 19th of June last, with an illness from
which she never quite recovered; although
at times her friends were hopeful. All
through these many months of summer her
daughter was at her bedside, and ministered 
with love and tenderness to every need, and
anticipated every desire so far as possible.

[Column 3]
And at last when the final hour came, after
an almost continuous sleep of three days
and nights, it was the daughter who attend-
ed to the last sad offices, but there was no
feeling of death or gloom, for as the poet
has said:
	“Like one who draws the drapery of her couch
About her, she lay down to pleasant dreams.”


