WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF EUNICE
		BILLINGS SNOW.
	My mother was set apart by the Prophet
Joseph for the especial calling in obstetrics.
She practiced for over fifty years, and never
lost a case of the mother.
	Being accustomed to attend all meetings
with my mother, I was present at meetings
of the first Relief Society in the Church in
Nauvoo. And when my mother was called
as a teacher with Sister Markham as a com-
panion. I was not old enough to be a mem-
ber of the organization. During the build-
ing of the Temple, my father worked very
often on it and at those times we lived quite
close, mother being very sick for the first
three months after we moved to Nauvoo.
My youngest brother died at Nauvoo, in his
tenth year. His name was Titus. He was
buried in the cemetery at Nauvoo. Broth-
ers Heber C. Kimball and Newel K. Whit-
ney were called in to administer to him and
while they were administering to him, he
died.
	I saw the Prophet lay the corner-stone of
the Nauvoo Temple. I was a member of the
Nauvoo choir from the time I was twelve
years old, and sang at the dedication of the
Nauvoo Temple. I received my endow-
ments in the Nauvoo Temple when I was
sixteen years old. I was baptized when I
was nearly sixteen, in the font of the Nau-
voo Temple.
	Previous to my fifteeneth year, I remem-
ber hearing the Prophet speak on celestial
marriage, and although I did not fully un-
derstand it, yet my parents made it plain to
me when I was fourteen, or fifteen years old,
and Brother Kimball supplemented their
teachings. Before I was sixteen, when my
mother was very sick, Sister Vilate Kimball
would come to administer to her wants,
bringing foods and dainties. No doubt she
saved her life since she had no one but
myself to do for, and I was so very young
and inexperienced at that time. I remember
when the “Nauvoo Expositor” was de-
stroyed. This was a paper established by the
apostates and it was creating considerable
trouble, so much that our brethren felt that
it should not exist. It was destroyed after
a short time and many of the people were
very much enraged at the time and it point-
ed to the beginning of mobocracy. The
paper was conducted by Law, Foster, and
Dr. John C. Bennett.
	Some of the most impressive moments of
my life were, when I saw the “Nauvoo
Legion” on parade with the Prophet, then
Gen. Joseph Smith, with his wife, Emma
Hale Smith, on horseback at the head of
the troops. It was indeed, an imposing
sight, and one that I shall always remember.
He so fair, and she so dark, in their beauti-
ful riding-habits. He in full military suit,
and she with her habit trimmed with gold
buttons, a neat cap on her head, with a black
plume in it, while the Prophet wore a red
plume in his, and a red sash across his
breast, his coat was black, while his white
pants had red stripes on the outside seams.
He also wore a sword at his side. His fav-
orite riding-horse was named Charlie, a big
black steed. My father for many years,
was captain of the cannon when the legion
was on parade, and many a time, my moth-
er and I made cartridges for him. He kept
the cannon in his charge.
	After the destruction of the “Expositor,”
many of the apostates became wild and re-

[Column 2]
vengeful thirsting for the Prophet’s blood.
The staunch and loyal Latter-day Saints
in Nauvoo, felt that the Prophet was in dan-
ger, and although they lived with a strong
faith in the Lord that all would be well, yet
they tried to dissuade the Prophet from re-
maining in Nauvoo and suceeded so far, that
he moved across the Mississippi river to
Montrose. He did not stay there very long
however, as some of his friends persuaded
him to come back, thinking possibly that his
presence would tend to pacify the crowds of
boisterous people on the streets.
	I remember hearing the Prophet the last
time he spoke in Nauvoo. It was in the
day at the Bowery, which was filled with a
goodly number of the saints. He said, “I
go like a lamb to the slaughter,” referring
to the great shadow, which semed even then
to hover over his life and to foreshadow
his impending doom.
	On the last day which he spent in Nauvoo,
he passed our house with his brother, Hy-
rum, both riding. My mother and I were
standing in the dooryard, and as he passed,
he bowed with uplifted hat to my mother.
Hyrum seemed like one in a dream, sad and
despondent, taking no notice of any one.
They were on their way to the Carthage
jail, and it was the last time I saw the
Prophet alive. Shortly after this, my fath-
er came home and told my mother that the
Prophet and his brother had been murdered,
whereupon my mother exclaimed, “How
can it be possible? Will the Lord allow any-
thing like that?” And immediately she sank
back in her chair and fainted. When she
came to herself, my father lamented the fact
with her, but cited the case that other Proph-
ets in the world’s history had been killed.
The bodies were brought into Nauvoo the
morning after the murder, and placed in the
Nauvoo Mansion to be viewed by hundreds
of people. The Latter-day Saints in the
city were full of melancholy, and sadness
prevailed over the place. Tears were shed
on every hand, and deep mourning shrouded
the city.
	Lucy Mack Smith, Emma Hale Smith,
my mother and I, together viewed the bod-
ies, and I shall never forget the impression
made upon me when the Prophet’s mother
saw the bodies of her dead sons. Falling
on her knees and clasping her hands she
cried out, “O God, why were my noble sons
permitted to be martyred?” Then control-
ling herself with a mighty effort, she said,
“Thy will, not mine, O Lord, be done.”
	After this terrible murder, the condition
of the Church was a pitiable plight, with
confusion on every hand, until the Lord
raised up a new prophet, in the person of
Brigham Young; a second Moses, to lead
the people out of their sad difficulties.

