IMPRESSIVE SERVICES.
	The funeral of President Bathsheba W.
Smith was held in the large Tabernacle in
this city on Sunday, September 25, 1910,
a very large congregation was present to
pay honor to the dearly beloved President
of the Relief Society.
	Numerous floral tributes were tastefully
arranged on or about the platform, and
casket, the building was draped in white
and the whole appearance denoted a deli-
cate expression of the esteem and reverence
which was felt by the entire community.
	Bishop F. S. Tingey of the Seventeenth
Ward in charge of the services. The Tem-
ple choir were present to render sweet mu-
sic such as Sister Smith loved. Professor
J. J. McClellan was at the organ and that
wonderful instrument pealed forth a solemn
funeral march by Chopin at the opening,
and until the family were seated. The first
hymn was “When first the glorious light
of truth.” Invocation by Bishop George
Romney, a fellow worker with Sister Smith
in the Temple. “O My Father,” by the Tab-
ernacle Choir.
	The first speaker was Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith’s Bishop Franklin S. Tingey,
who referred to Sister Smith as exem-
plary in regard to tithing, and donations,
and prompt in attending meetings in her
own ward, he felt it an honor to raise his
voice in praise of such a noble woman, and 
spoke of her being President for some years
in the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke next, with deep
feeling, paid a tender tribute to the mem-
ory of the life and labors of the departed
referred to the heroic women who had gone
on before, that had been the life-long com-
panions of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, and
who had like the one who had just left us,
laid all, upon the altar of their faith, and
with their husbands, entered into eternal
covenants and been true and faithful until
death. Alluded to the testimony Sister
Smith had always borne while she lived,
and that there were few left now of those
associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	President Nephi L. Morris said in sub-
stance, Sister Smith’s name was a house-
hold word, and spoke of her as a public
character with all the qualities of leader-
ship; he believed woman’s most sacred call-
ing was motherhood, and spoke of Aunt
Bathsheba standing as a noble princess in
Israel. “I wish to express my appreciation
of this beautiful life that has just closed as
far as this earth is concerned. She ever
seemed to move in peace and tranquility,
there was something almost sacred in the
atmosphere which surrounded her. How
sweet will be the rest which has now come
to her in heaven.”
	Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang the
solo “Angels ever bright and fair” in her
very sweetest style, with organ accompani-
ment.
	President Anthon H. Lund of the First
Presidency: “A mother in Israel has left


[Column 1]
us. She was a mother in all Israel. She
has lived a long and beautiful life, eight-
eight years in this earth-mission.” Presi-
dent Lund referred to her being born in
Virginia and of her religious turn of mind,
and her many excellent traits of character,
her faith which was built on the “Rock of
Ages,” following her was a chain of good
works. She was placed in high positions,
but was never made proud by it, never felt
above her brothers and sisters; was a mem-
ber of the first Relief Society and that has
formed a link between the early days and
now. We honor her for what she has done,
spoke of her testimonies of the early days,
and closed with these words, “We believe
a crown of righteousness awaits her, we feel
she was a woman of God.”
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor paid a glowing
tribute of admiration and reverence to the
deceased and added: “We can boast of
heroes in this Church, and we also have
heroines of the highest type. They have
been acknowledged by heaven, and will re-
ceive heaven’s recognition and reward. Sis-
ter Smith has been a member of the Church
for seventy-three years, and has gone down
to her grave without taking one feeling of
revenge with her as did Jesus. Her life
showed simplicity, humility, patience and
loveliness.”
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry: “If
the book of her life were written there
would be something beautiful on each page
I have worked with Sister Smith for nine
years and every day I thank my Heavenly
Father that I had this privilege.” The speak-
er referred to Sister Smith’s excellent judg-
ment in settling important questions, and
felt she always had the Spirit of the Lord.
In conclusion Sister Dusenberry said: “Sis-
ter Smith lived not only in years but in
deeds, everyone felt her sweet spirit, the
faith and purity of such a sweet life.
	President Richard W. Young said: “It
is claimed that with the exception of the
German army, there is no such perfect or-
ganization existing as that of this Church,
which includes the great organization of the
Relief Society, of which Sister Smith was
the head. By this Society distress has been
discovered and relieved. We believe in or-
ganized charity, not in indiscriminate giv-
ing. This is exemplified in the Relief So-
ciety. It relieves distress, nourishes the sick,
manifesting charity toward all worthy peo-
ple in need. What is more fit than that a
woman of Sister Smith’s character should
preside over such an organization as the
Relief Society. In coming into her pres-
ence one could feel radiating from her a
love for mankind, kindness, and goodness.
None knew her but to love and honor her.
May God consecrate her life to the sweet-
ening of the lives of others.”
	The choir sang, “Nearer my God to Thee”
and the benediction was pronounced by
Patriarch John Smith.
	While the mourners were leaving the
building Professor J. J. McClellan rendered
Mendelssohn’s funeral march in E. minor.
The pall-bearers were Sister Smith’s grand-
sons, Clarence Merrill Jr., Thomas Mer-
rill, Louis Merrill, Frank E. Allen, Llew-
ellyn Lloyd and Lyman Horne.
	A long cortege of numerous mourners
and friends followed the hearse to the grave.
President Angus M. Cannon dedicated the
grave in the most solemn manner, in the
presence of a large number of relatives and

[Column 2]
friends, representatives of the organiza-
tions General Board of the Relief Society,
members of the Temple workers, General
Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. General Board
of the Primary Associations, and the
Daughters of the Pioneers.
	The floral tributes were very beautiful
and significant. General Board Relief So-
ciety, and the stake organizations of Salt
Lake, Pioneer, Ensign, Liberty, Pocatello,
Daughters of the Revolution, grandsons and
granddaughters and great grandchildren.
	Doctor and Mrs. Wilcox, Mrs. W. B.
Boothe and family, Mrs. Annie D. Watson
and Mrs. Lucy E. Acomb gave these tokens
of love.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was buried
beside her husband on the hillside just at
sunset—

	“Sunset and evening star,
		And one clear call for me!
	And may there be no moaning of the bar,
		When I put out to sea.”

