BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF
		ALZINA LUCINDA WILLES.
	Sister Alzina Lucinda willes was born in
Susquehanna, Luzerne county, Pa., March
4, 1834. She was the daughter of Corne-
lius P. and Permelia Darrow Lott.
	Her father’s family joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1838,
moving first to Ohio and thence to Nauvoo,
Ill., where as a girl Sister Willes associated
almost daily with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
On account of her lively disposition and her
ability to catch the Prophet’s horse when no
one else could do so, she became a special
favorite of the Smith family.
	She passed through the persecutions of
Nauvoo and in 1848 crossed the plains, driv-
ing a team composed of two cows and two
oxen, the entire distance of one thousand
five hundred miles, arriving in Salt Lake
Valley Sept. 24, 1848.
	For two years after arriving in Utah the
family made their home in Salt Lake City,
where her father died on the present site of
the Knutsford Hotel.
	In 1851 she, with her mother and family,
moved to Lehi and located on the shore of
Utah Lake, where, on April 23, 1852, she
was married to William Sidney Willes by
President Brigham Young, who was at that
time passing through Lehi on a tour of the
territory south.
	When in 1855 the scattered settlers sur-
rounding Lehi were called to move together
for protection against the Indians, Brother
and Sister Willes moved into the town
where she has since resided.
	In 1871 death deprived her of her hus-
band, leaving her with the responsibility of
a large family of young children. Over
this family she exercised the influence of a
loving mother and bravely assumed the ar-
duous duties of a father as well.
	She was the mother of nine children, two
boys and seven girls, five of whom survive
her. Her grand children number thirty-
eight and her great grand children thirty-
five.
	Sister Willes possessed a warm heart and
her life was full of service. She endured
much for the gospel sake and died in full
faith and hope in a glorious resurrection,
on the 18th of August, 1910. At her daugh-
ters, home in Lehi.—J. P. M. F.


