RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT IN HONOR OF
	PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
These resolutions were read at the meeting of the
General Board,. September 23, 1910.
	Our dearly beloved and honored Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith has been called
home—called unto the peace and rest and
joy of eternal life in the mansions of God
our Heavenly Father, answering the sum-
mons on the rich autumnal morn of Tues-
day, September 20, 1910.
	The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints bereft of the
association and guidance of this noble and
queenly woman; feels it fitting to declare
in feeble, yet affectionate phrase, our love
and high esteem for her, whose life was our
great example and whose death is our great
sorrow.
	Therefore, be it resolved that we, the offi-
cers and members of this organization of the
Relief Society in conference assembled, on
this 4th day of October, 1910, by rising vote
testify our reverence and love for her whose
long and gentle life was filled to the brim
with kindly deeds.
	For her who toiled unceasingly and un-
tiringly for the spiritual and material wel-
fare of mankind;
	For her who long years labored loving-
ly and tenderly for the living and the dead
in the house of the Lord;
	For her, who though endowed with gifts
and graces befitting the highest station, was
ever humble and sweet in spirit.
	For her, whose unselfish home life, wife-
ly devotion and motherly tenderness stand
as an example to all Israel;
	For her, who in very truth was a mother
to the daughters of Zion.
	And be it further resolved that we cher-
ish these memories deep in our hearts; that
her beautifully completed life be upheld as
a beacon and inspiration to the generations
yet to follow; and that encouraged by her
example, we may feel—

“We will do like wise, death hath made no
	breach
In love and sympathy, in hope and trust.
No outward sign nor sound our ears can reach;
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
That greets us still though mortal tongue be
	dust,
It bids us do the work that she laid down,
Take up the song where she left off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,

[Column 3]
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown
And our lost loved ones will be found again.”
							—Amen.
Ida Smoot Dusenberry	Phebe Y. Beatie
Emmeline B. Wells		Carrie S. Thomas
Clarissa Smith Williams	Alice Merrill Horne
Jane S. Richards		Annie Wells Cannon
Sarah Jenne Cannon	Priscilla P. Jennings
Romaina B. Penrose	Elizabeth S. Wilcox
Susan Grant			Harriet B. Harker
Emma S. Woodruff		Minnie Horne James
Julina L. Smith		Rebecca N. Nibley
Emily S. Richards		Amy Brown Lyman
Julia P. M. Farnsworth	Annie Kay Hardy


