		MY TRIP TO MANTI.
	In 1849, during the October conference,
which was held in Salt Lake City my fath-
er and mother with my husband and myself
were called to go, with Isaac Morley as our
leader to Manti to settle the first colony
there. My husband’s name was John E.
Warner and my father’s name was Titus
Billings. I was married eight miles north
of Salt Lake City to John E. Warner, at a
small settlement called Session’s Settlement.
	We prepared for our journey and started
in the latter part of October. The trip oc-
cupied three weeks, which is strange to say,
when one thinks that we make a continuous

[Column 3]
journey, only camping overnight and mak-
ing our own roads as we traveled along.
On our way, my mother was quite ill and I
had to prepare the meals when I was not
driving a yoke of cattle. My father drove
the other yoke of cattle and my husband
was busy attending to the loose cattle which
we had with us.
	We reached Manti on the 21st, of No-
vember. It being the fall of the year, every-
thing was bleak and dreary. There was, of
course, no house in sight only the brush cov-
ering the ground, and for six weeks we lived
in our wagons with only a brush covering
to protect us from the storms. In the mean
while, my husband went to the mountains
and there sawed logs with an upright saw
to construct our dwelling. They sawed the
logs in two for the sides of the house and
they made sheathing for the roof and floor.
They put in small pieces of wood between
the logs for chinks and plastered mud all
over the outside to keep it warm. The
house consisted of one room and we had a
small stove which we had brought across the
plains, and besides there was a fireplace,
which kept the place warm. We had no car-
pet, but we had beds and dishes, so we con-
sidered that we were quite comfortable.
	When we had lived there two weeks my
first child was born, but due to hardship and
suffering the little thing was still-born, and
I came very nearly losing my own life. I
was sick for quite a while, and my mother,
who was a midwife, nursed and attended
me. She was the only doctor, midwife, and
nurse at the time in Manti. My child, I
think, was the third one born in the little
settlement.
	Many of the first settlers lived in dugouts
along by the stone quarries, and it was not
unusual for them to get up in the morning
and find the rattle snakes crawling along the
eaves of their dugout homes.
	The people did not suffer from any pes-
tilence nor great conflagraation, showing
that the Lord was kind to them and scat-
tered blessings on his servants who had
gone forth to establish new settlements in
his name.
	My father and my husband, during that
first winter drove our cows to the “Warm
Springs” and every morning about ten o’-
clock they would take some bran to them
and milk them. That gave us fresh milk
once a day and in that way we felt that we
had some of the luxuries of life. My par-
ents were very particular in apportioning
our foods every day, so that they would last
until the next seed-time and harvest, and by
that means we did not suffer during that
first long, cold winter. You understand, it
would be difficult to get supplies from the
other settlements or from Salt Lake City, on
account of the means of transportation
through the canyons being blocked with
snow.
	As soon as possible the brethren erected
a large log building near the stone quarry
where we could hold our meetings regularly,
and my husband, Brother Warner conducted
the first singing and led the first choir in
Manti, Among the first members of the
choir were: Brother Warner, my father
and mother, Sister Hannah Morley, and
myself. When we moved to our city lots
and a large rock meeting house had been
built in the center, of town, Brother Warner
continued to lead the singing there until his
death.
	Brother John Lowry was the first bishop


of Manti and my husband served as clerk
of the ward. He also served as clerk to
Judge Peacock during the sessions of the
District Court. He acted as well as clerk
of all public meetings. Brother Warner
was well educated in his native state—Mas-
sachusetts. He played well on the flute,
which, by the way was the only instrument
of music which we had at first in Manti.
This flute was a twenty-four silver mounted
one and very valuable. I played in the first
theater that was organized in Manti, and in
the Thespian Society we often sang duets.
	My mother, Diantha Morley Billings, was
the first president of the first Relief Society
that was organized in Manti. All my chil-
dren, except the last one, were born in Man-
ti. I have had eight children, seven of
whom were born in Manti. I have six chil-
dren living and I have had forty-eight
grandchildren and twenty-eight great-
grandchildren.
	We lived in Manti fourteen years and I
shall always cherish fond recollections of
the place. We came to it when it was bare
and desolate and we saw it grow into a
beautiful settlement. I am the oldest living
lady of the first company that went to Man-
ti in 1849. The greatest sorrow which
came into my life was the death of my hus-
band, Brother Warner, in the Walker War.
I lived a widow three years when I was
married to Brother George W. Snow. I
had four children belonging to him.
	When I contemplate the present times
with all their splendor and luxury, the auto-
mobiles instead of the oxteams, the electric
lights instead of the tallow candles, the gas
stoves instead of the old wood ones, I pon-
der on the works of the Lord and his mercy
unto the people.
	I have several relics with me which I have
placed in charge of Brother Tennant, and
shall be pleased to have anyone inspect
them that chooses.
	The Manti Temple has been built since I
left the city but I have returned and worked
in it.
	I am thankful to my heavenly Father that
at the age of eighty, I have been spared
and I am in fairly good health and that the
Lord has brought me so far along in my
journey that I am permitted to attend this
reunion and to be with my friends and rel-
atives on this happy occasion. That I may
continue to be blessed and to remain faith-
ful to the end of my days, is my prayer.
Amen.


