		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	Report of Yellowstone Stake Relief So-
ciety conference held at St. Anthony, Aug.
15, 1910. There were present Stake Presi-
dent Daniel G. Miller, First Counselor Mar-
ion J. Kerr, Bishop A. D. Miller, Sr., one
High Councilman and Sisters Barnes, Ballif
and Briggs of the Fremont Stake Relief
Society. President Julia E. Miller presided.
	Singing, “We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet;” prayer by President Daniel G.
Miller; singing, “We are sowing daily sow-
ing.” President Julia E. Miller welcomed
the sisters to conference. Parker, Wilford,
Warm River, Twin Groves and Ashton
wards were Reported as being in good con-
dition. Musical selection was given by Sis-
ter Grace Williams. Counselor Mary J.
Miller advised the officers along the lines
of their duties.
	A reading, “The Lord looketh upon the
Heart,” by Sister Grace Z. Robertson; solo,
“There’s a mother needs me now,” Sister
Amelia Barnes. Benediction by Sister Em-
ily Lamborn.
	Afternoon session: Singing, “High on
the Mountain Top;” prayer, President M.
J. Kerr singing; “The Happy Day.”
	Ora, St. Anthony, Marysville and Kil-
gore branches were reported as doing well.
President Julia E. Miller reported the stake.
Song, “Oh, Heart of Mine” by Brother and
Sister Thos. Elliot. Sister Barnes of Fre-
mont Stake spoke on Relief Society work.
Sister Briggs spoke on the duties of the
teacher. An instrumental selection by
Brother Elliot. The general and stake offi-
cers were then sustained. Solo, “Some
Happy Day,” by Sister Emily Ballif. Presi-
dent Daniel G. Miller spoke for a short
time. Duet, “Light at Eventime,” by Wil-
ford Society. After a few remarks by Bish-
op A. D. Miller conference was adjourned.
Singing, “Doxology.” Benediction, Sister
Francis Hunter.
				MARY E. BROWER,
							Secretary.

[Column 3]
			BIGHORN STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of Big
Horn Stake was held in Cowley Relief So-
ciety Hall, August 18, 1910, President Mary
L. Welch presiding. Singing, “Come, Come
ye Saints;” opening prayer by Bishop W.
C. Partridge; singing, “Oh ye Mountains
High.”
	President Mary L. Welch said, “No doubt
we felt disappointed in not having visitors
from the General Board, but as the Lord
was no respector of persons, we could enjoy
his Spirit just the same.”
	The meeting was then left open for testi-
mony bearing. Francis Crosby read a testi-
mony of Sister M. Isabella Horne, from the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT. Counselor Barbara
Lyman and Sarah Partridge bore their testi-
mony. Sister Abbie Neeves said she re-
ceived a testimony of the truthfulness of the
Book of Mormon when she was only eight,
years of age. In the early days in Utah
the soldiers came to her mother’s house and
began to ridicule the Book of Mormon; the
Spirit of the Lord told her it was true, and
she stood up and bore this testimony to the
soldiers. Sarah Clayton Partridge, Bishop
Edward Partridge’s wife, said perhaps she
was the only one present that lived in the
days of the Prophet, and she wanted to
bear her testimony, that she knew he was a
Prophet of God. She remembered the
Prophet coming to her father’s house. She
wanted her children to hear her bear this
testimony: that Father had always been a
true friend of hers, and she had never called
on him in vain.
	Lois Vance, Lizzie Robinson, Man An-
derson, Jessie Taggart and Rachel Ellis bore
testimonies. Millie Egan told how she had
dreaded a death in her family, and how the
Lord had warned her of her little boy dying
before hand so she was prepared for it. Lucy
F. Grant warned the sisters not to make
home made beer and wine to create an ap-
petite for strong drinks in their husbands
and sons, said one of her brothers had been
made a confirmed drunkard through this.
	Mary Hopkins bore testimony she had
never been to a better testimony meeting in
her life. Sister Avilda Dickson hoped to
always be worthy of belonging to a Relief
Society.
	President Mary L. Welch said she was
thankful for the testimonies that had been
borne. It was a spiritual feast to all pres-
ent. All were invited to stay to luncheon,
which was served in the basement of the
same building by the Cowley sisters; the
tables were tastefully arranged, and all en-
joyed themselves in a temporal feast.
	Singing, “Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere
Desire.” Benediction by Partriarch John
Eyre.
	Afternoon session of conference was
called to order, Pres. Mary L. Welch presid-
ing. Singing, “We Thank Thee Oh God for
a Prophet;” opening prayer by R. M. Lynn;
singing, “Scatter Sunshine.” A letter of
greeting from President Bathsheba W.
Smith, was read by Secretary Irene Mar-
chant; vocal solo by Claudia Smith testi-
mony by Abbie Neeves.
	All bore strong testimonies Sarah
Welch said the Lord had always been a 
friend of hers; gave evidence of the Lord
answering her little boy’s prayer. Laura
Rappley and daughters sang, “I Need Thee


[Column 1]
every Hour.” Artie Willis bore testimony
of the Lord healing her children. Annie
Lafollet and Ritta Porter bore good testi-
monies. Libbie Snell spoke of witnessing,
when a girl, the Priesthood casting out an
evil spirit from one of her school mates.
Lydia Workman said she felt she had to
tell of the goodness of the Lord unto her,
in healing her little boy. He was kicked by
a horse, his skull was mashed and they had
no hopes for his life, but through the Priest-
hood he was entirly healed. Laura Rappley
said she knew the Lord could answer our
prayers if we were miles away from our
loved ones. Had a niece away from home
with consumption, whom the doctor said
could not live, she requested her friends at
home to fast and pray for her, at the very
hour they set for prayer she said she felt a
thrill go through her whole body; she is
alive and mother of a family. Maud Call,
who had gone down to death’s door in bear-
ing two children, told of how she had been
delivered with the third normally through
the young ladies of the ward holding a fast
meeting for her.
	Sarah Ballard, Susan Simmons and Ber-
tha Sessions bore their testimony, told of
the goodness of God to them.
	Amanda Marchant sang, “The Unknown
Grave.” Sister Tiggen, Charlotte Lindsay,
Susie Barney bore testimonies. President
Byron Sessions encouraged the Relief So-
ciety sisters in their work, asked the sis-
ters to honor and respect those who had
been called to preside over this organiza-
tion.
	Vocal duet, “When you Bowed this
Morning,” by Bertha and Vena Sessions.
President Jesse W. Crosby compared the
Relief Society with other organizations of
the world; related incidents of his teachings
in the Church.
	President Mary L. Welch bore her testi-
mony; felt to thank all who had taken part
and made the conference a success.
	Closed by singing, “God be With you.”
Benediction by Claudia Ketchum.—Irene
Merchant, secretary.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 52nd regular quarterly also
the 3rd Annual Relief Society conference,
held in the Stake Tabernacle, August 19,
1910, beginning at 10 a. m.
	We had as missionaries, Mrs. Minnie
Horne James and Mrs. Annie K. Hardy of
the General Board of Relief Society.
	President Nancy A. Colton presiding.
Singing by choir and congregation, “Our
God we raise to Thee;” opening prayer by
Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett; singing, “High on
the Mountain Top.”
	President Nancy A. Colton welcomed the
brethren and sisters to conference. She
also reported the Relief Society of the Stake
in good condition.
	Lecture on Church History by Mrs. Alice
Merrill, subject: “The Founding of Zion.”
	Song from Vernal 2nd Ward by Mrs.
Jane Bennion, accompanied by Miss Meda
Carpenter.
	We had reports from the following presi-
dents: President Keturah Berkley, Vernal
First Ward President Hannah B. Odekirk,
Vernal Second Ward; each reported the
Society in good condition.
	Mrs. Minnie Horne James was much im-
pressed in storing grain, thought the sis-
ters should put forth an extra effort this

[Column 2]
fall in gathering grain; spoke on the sub-
jects of the Word of Wisdom. Duties of the
Relief Society teachers, also of the lecture
which had been so ably given.
	Mrs. Annie K. Hardy spoke of the beau-
tiful scenery along the road. Encouraged
the sisters to press onward in their work.
Alluded to the lecture which had been given
so beautifully; referred to the Relief Society
being the first auxiliary organization in the
Church, and the charitable work it was do-
ing; we should not neglect anybody, no mat-
ter who they are, spoke of the encampment
in Salt Lake City, and of the words which
had been prophesied, where it says we shall
go up to the mountain of the house of the
Lord. Urged the sisters in their labors,
to extend their efforts to the aged and in-
firm.
	Elder Reuben S. Collett represented the
stake presidency; said life is what we make
out of it; spoke of the responsibilities of
mothers in rearing their children, for the
mother is the one that has the care of the
child to a greater extent than the father.
Referred to mothers work in the Society and
what a great work was being done among
the sisters, dwelt upon charity.
	Singing, “Come, Come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Elder Joseph McKee.
	Afternoon session: Continued by sing-
ing, “Do What is Right;” prayer by Mrs.
Fannie E. Stewart; singing “A Poor Way-
Faring man of Grief.”
	A talk on mothers work by Mrs. Mary
H. Stringham. She outlined the mothers
work and read the different subjects of this
year’s plan.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett spoke of inviting
our husbands and sons to Rdlief Society
meetings so as when they were called on
missions they would know the order of the
Relief Society. Urged the sisters to gather
grain in the time and season and now is the
time. Teach our children the gospel so if
they are called to go and build up Jackson
county they will be prepared.
	Song by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, accom-
panied. by Miss Rose Hays, entitled, “Don’t
be Afraid.”
	President May Lambert reported Roose-
velt Relief Society. President Rachel Bas-
com reported Naples Relief Society—each
Society in good condition.
	Mrs. Minnie Horne James felt well in
hearing such good reports as she had heard;
urged the sisters to persevere in Relief So-
ciety work, and if each sister will study the
lectures they are the ones that will be bene-
fited, but if we just hear them and do not
study them, they will not do us much good.
She compared the gospel with other
churches.
	Song by a group of young girls from
Maeser, led by Mrs. Ethelwynne Collett, ac-
companied by Miss Rose Hays.
	Mrs. Annie K. Hardy spoke of the labors
of our aged fathers and mothers for our
benefit, also be kind to your small children;
said, sisters be patient with each other. She
exhorted the young sisters to be virtuous;

[Column 3]
and to be true to parents and friends, and
remember the teaching of their parents.
	Elder Dan B. Colton, counselor in the
stake presidency, gave excuse for President
William H. Smart not being there, was
pleased to see so many but there might be
more. He always felt to say God bless our
mothers, he thought the sin of indifference
was growing in our midst to a great extent;
spoke of keeping our girls at home, and
not let them go to mining camps to work;
gave counsel in regard to storing grain.
	President Nancy A. Colton felt to thank
all who had helped in this conference; gave
the visiting sisters a vote of thanks; ex-
plained how charity should be given.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Come Let us Anew.” Benediction
by Elder Harry C. Hullinges.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.
			Uintah Stake Relief Society.


