OTHERWISE, AT WASHINGTON RECEPTIONS.

	Some ladies in Washington who have large
receptions one afternoon of each week, and
who have been in the habit of having punch
always for their guests, have lately substituted
lemonade, and have found that their visitors
seem to enjoy the change. One of these
hostesses says she is beginning to think it un-
wise to offer punch to young ladies and gen-
tlemen. One lady says she puts three bottles
of claret, one of champagne, one of whisky,
and half a bottle of rum into the punch she
makes for her reception each week. That
surely would seem an injudicious concoction
to offer to young people. "I hear," lately ob-
served a lady in conversation on the above sub-
ject. "that Mrs.—— has given up altogether
having punch at her receptions. Now, hers
used to be the strongest punch and furnished
in the largest quantities on reception days of
any in Washington." "Yes, and it is so now,"
answered a young gentleman. "I suppose the
report that she had ceased to have it originated
from the fact that she had no punch at her re-
ceptions the first two weeks of the season, but


that was only because she had lent her punch-
bowl to a neighbor, who was having a card re-
ception on each of her first reception days."
By this it will be seen that Washington is
nothing if not neighborly in the truly rural
sense.
	The punch at the teas given from 3 to 6
Thursdays in February by Representative
Scott's daughter, Mrs. Townsend, was made of
Apollinaris water, champagne, and arrack.
Mrs. Townsend also had tea, coffee, and bou-
lion at these receptions, the latter being served
piping hot in a cut-glass pitcher, and this bev-
erage seemed to find favor of all on chilly
afternoons.
	Secretary Whitney is the first member of
the Cabinet for a number of years who has had
champagne at a reception. He furnished it in
liberal quantities at his New Year reception,
and did the same at the evening receptions he
and his wife gave Thursdays in February. No
other member of the present Administration
has had wine at his large receptions, though
claret punch is usually provided at the Wed-
nesday afternoon receptions, at Cabinet houses.
Secretary and Mrs. Endicott commonly have
no other drink than tea when they receive by
day or evening.


