	KIRTLAND AND NAUVOO.

	Prolific topics these! When one has a lofty
subject one feels most keenly the inability to give
adequate expression in the delineation of the
theme. And when one sees Kirtland and Nauvoo
both within a week's time, going over each place
with a tenderness almost amounting to reverence,
as if treading upon holy ground, silence is the best
offering one can make at such a time. That is
very well for the individual person, but of what
benefit is it to others, and what about those who
expect something more expressive than silence—
the eager public, who are anxious to hear observa-
tions one will make upon these noted cities of the
Saints, each of which flourished for a time as the
"Latter-day Zion;" in both of which a Temple has
been erected to the Most High God, and where
sacred ordinances have been performed by those
having authority through the holy priesthood.
And when reflecting upon this subject one cannot
help mentally asking, "Where now are all the
great assemblies of the Saints of former days, who
met and worshipped in these consecrated places?"
and the winds echo,"Where, indeed?" And alas!
who can tell? Some have lain down to sleep in
"the valley of the shadow of death," and their
spirits have gone "beyond the gates," to preach
to the spirits in prison, or to associate with the
great company of the departed. Some, perhaps,
after having received the good word and tasted
the "bread of life," have fallen away and mingled
again with the world they had once renounced.
Others have kept the faith and still live, have en-
dured much tribulation, counting not the cost, for
the glorious hope within, and have added to their
wisdom, treasures of knowledge from time to
time, as the Lord has revealed Himself through
His prophets. Some have been slain for the
word of God and the testimony of Jesus, and
others have died from the hardships and privations
endured in the pilgrimages consequent upon the
persecutions through which the Saints have been
called to pass.
	Of that great company, that vast and solemn
assembly that gathered in the Kirtland Temple in
those early days, "but few remain" to tell the
story. Historic names indeed are Kirtland and
Nauvoo. They thrill the pulses of the Latter-day
Saints, and call up a thousand tender recollections
whenever the names are uttered among the people
who know the facts and incidents connected there-
with.
	Do those who live to-day realize what the early
founders of this "Mormon" empire did for them?
They opened the way, they ushered in the new
dispensation, they laid the foundation, they heeded
not the consequences, they bore the scorn, the
contumely, the hate, and withstood the threats,
the fury of mobs, the treachery of false friends
and brethren. How little the present generation
think and appreciate what has been borne and
suffered by the early disciples of the Church in
these last days. It has been freely given, and ac-
cepted as a natural inheritance, as a child receives

[Column 2]
by rightful dower his father's wealth, without
considering the toils, the struggles and privations
which were encountered in its accumulation. Is
it right to be unmindful of the blessings so dearly
earned, and be guilty of the sin of ingratitude for
the want of earnest thought and a just apprecia-
tion of those who spent their lives and substance
in the establishment of the kingdom of God upon
the earth? Let us trust not; let us hope for better
things, and strive to show by works faithfully per-
formed that the good example of those early
pioneers in Zion's cause has stimulated us who
live to-day to more earnest endeavors in the pur-
suance and support of a sublime faith and active
devotion for the great cause so heroically main-
tained at the risk of all that was near and dear, and
even life itself.
	Leaving Cleveland by the Lake Shore and
Michigan Railway we soon arrived at Willoughby,
were, by private conveyance, we proceeded to
Kirtland. As the road was entirely new to the
writer, none of the old land-marks were particu-
larly interesting as they would have been to those
who had gone over and over the road in times past,
but Little Mountain was pointed out (and little it
was, indeed, to one accustomed to gazing upon
the stupendous mountains of the Wasatch range),
as rather a striking feature among the tame
scenery of the open country, and, alas! mentioned
as a summer resort for picnics and so forth. At
a turn of the road, the Temple became visible, and
knowing the building well from the pictures we
had seen, it was at once recognized. How strange
it looked, standing as it does in bold relief apart
from all else, as though it had no connection with
the surrounding objects, grant, though plain in
architecture, and old in its appearance, even a
stranger could not but imagine it had a history.
To one who knew the circumstances, it possessed
almost a fascination. As the carriage drew nearer,
houses, barns and trees became more distinct;one
could get an excellent view of the town on that
side, or, as it is commonly designated, the Kirt-
land Flats. Driving into the town direct we sort
of instinctively recognized the residence and store
of Newel K. Whitney, formerly Presiding Bishop
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints; also the Johnson tavern, as hotels in the
country were usually called. We drove up to the
platform in front of the store and there alighted,
just where Joseph Smith the Prophet did when he
came to Kirtland in 1831, when he addressed N.
K. Whitney as he stood behind the counter in
those memorable words, "I'm Joseph the Prophet;
you've prayed me here, now what do you want of
me?" All this and a hundred other memories of
the dead rushed to mind, as we stood like one en-
tranced gazing upon that historic city. Crossing
the street from the store, we knocked at the door
of the house on the corner opposite, assured it
must be the one we had heard spoken of so often
by Bishop Whitney and his venerable wife,
Horace, Sarah and the young boys, as "our
home in Kirtland." A sweet-faced young woman
with her first baby was living there, and after so-
liciting the privilege of going through the house,
she very kindly allowed us to reconnoitre every
nook and corner. Here indeed one might well re-
call those touching lines of Tom Moore's,

"I feel like one who treads along
Some banquet hall deserted,
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
And all but me departed."

	We lingered as long as we dare in each room
(for the young woman possibly though it passing
strange), recalling the incidents we had heard re-
lated of "the old homestead," and especially in
"mother's room," as it was invariably referred to
by all the Whitney family. Over this particular
room was the chamber where Joseph had been
lodged as an honored guest on his first arrival in
Kirtland, and where he had oft retired to meditate
and to write, and to receive communications from

[Column 3]
the Lord. Entering that room, passing over the
threshold was "like standing upon holy ground."
One's emotions must indeed be under perfect con-
trol not to be strongly wrought upon. To one
very susceptible to spiritual impressions, it is no
wonder if the feeling was akin to reverence. How
could it be otherwise? Here had sat the great
Prophet and leader of the last dispensation of
the fulness of times. In that very room he had
received some of the most important messages
from the Almighty concerning the Latter-day
work. In this humble place had been gathered in
council some of the men who were the strongest
pillars of the Church in its early organization.
Here they had called upon God in fervent prayer,
here they had sought Him for wisdom and divine
help. O, "it was good to be there," to meditate
upon things that had transpired in that little room
that had been dedicated to God again and again
by His servants and handmaidens. Now it was
empty and deserted, a fitting place, it looked, for
bats and owls to congregate; cobwebs and dust
had accumulated until one could scarcely see
from its windows, and no use was made of it
whatever. Nothing remained of all its former
greatness or its uses, and none there could tell the
story of what had transpired within its walls, or
proudly testify of its distinguished occupants. All
was gone, and the men who once sat there in
council are now engaged in another field of labor
behind the vail.
	We went into the Whitney store afterwards,
which seemed to have been kept in good repair,
and after taking a look around and asking a few
questions of the bystanders, we walked out upon
the platform that faced the Temple Hill and took
a survey of the town as it could be seen from
there, then walked on, in preference to riding up
the hill, where so many hundreds, perchance
thousands, had gone to the Temple to worship
God. Once there, we succeeded, after some time,
in finding a guide to show us through the Temple.
Those who have visited such sacred places will
realize with what peculiar feelings we trod those
deserted halls, and wended our way up and down
the large and commodious rooms, taking specia
pains to note the stands at each end of the assem-
bly rooms for the several quorums of the priest-
hood to sit in their regular order. We climbed to
the very top and looked out upon the scene, and
while thus engaged, the mind grasped as much as
possible of the wonderful events that had tran-
spired in that vicinity of which we had read and
heard from those who participated in the develop-
ment of "the marvelous work and wonder," which
grew up in that region of the country.
	Leaving the Temple, after registering and being
told of young Joseph's great expectations con-
cerning the future of the people of Utah, and so
on, we wandered through the graveyard near
there, reading the inscriptions upon the tomb-
stones, many of them broken and much defaced,
and from there to Father Bond's, as we had been
told the Bond's could tell everything about Kirt-
land as it was formerly. Father Bond was a
member of the Church in New York State in a
very early day, and has kept the faith. He is now
eighty-eight years old, and very feeble. He made
inquiries about several people whom he knew long
ago, and related some facts and incidents,referring
frequently to such men as Brigham, Joseph and
Lorenzo Young, Judge Snow, Bates Nobles and
others of note. Miss Mary Bond, his daughter,
a maiden lady, and once an intimate friend and
playmate of Helen Kimball's (now Whitney), did
most of the talking. She is very delicate, but is
bright and intelligent. She said, among other re-
marks made by her during the interview, "If I
accept Moses as a prophet of the Lord, I must
also accept Joseph." This Sister Mary made a
very forcible impression upon the writer; she is
in some respects singular in manner and original
in her expression of views, and fragile in appear-


ance, being an invalid—perhaps a trifle crude, but
she is evidently a character which one must recog-
nize as a type among women. She is very small, 
her hair is short, and almost as white as the driven
snow, but when she talked of her childhood and
the people who figured conspicuouslly in the 
Church of Kirtland, her delicate face was all
aglow, and her eyes, sparkled with enthusiasm.
So striking was her voice and manner, and so
pathetic the picture she formed in my mind, with
the aged father and his sublime faith and confi-
dence, both of them seeming, as it were, so near
"the gates ajar," that it was "as though we had
seen a vision."
	Our destination after leaving the Bonds was the
farm and residence of the Reverend Samuel F.
Whitney, the brother of N. K. Whitney, who
has resided in Kirtland between fifty and sixty
years. This ends hastily, perhaps, but it must
suffice for the present, as the subject is much too
elaborate for one article.


