UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of Relief Society of
Utah County held Feb. 26th, 1886, President
John presiding, with Counselor Marilla
Daniels. We were also favored with the com-
pany of Sister S. M. Kimball, from Salt Lake
City. Conference opened by singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former Confer-
ence and reports of the County, etc.
	Sister John felt well in meeting with the
sisters in Conference once more, and thought
we were doing a good work. We know this
is the Kingdom of God, and feel that the
Lord is blessing us here in Provo. Urged all
to be faithful, and exercise their faith for our
brethren that are in bondage and exile. At
the request of S. M. Kimball, a few of the
sisters sang, "I had a dream." Sister Kimball
followed. She asked, "how shall we get this
oil that we cannot buy with money. We are
the only women on earth who have a steward-
ship conferred on them, and it should be our
study and prayer that we may be enabled to
magnify our callings honorably. Let us honor
those who are called to preside over us and
pray for them. It will be found a power in
their behalf. We must seek to build up and
not pull down. Let us cultivate a spirit of
peace, for our strength lies in the power we
have with God." After singing, conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session: Conference opened with
the usual exercises, Sister Goodman spoke
in the interests of the silk association of Utah
County. Sister S. M. Kimball followed with
a few remarks on the same subject, and coun-
seled the sisters if they could not succeed in
the undertaking to ask aid of the brethren.
She related some of her experiences in the
Relief Society, and in regard to Society build-
ings; said she had the honor of laying the
first corner stone of the first Relief Society
building that was built in this dispensation
and Brother Joseph gave the first five dollars
that was given towards establishing a fund
for the Relief Society. Brothers Taylor and
Richards followed with the same amount each
and Brother Joseph said that hereafter every-
thing he gave to the poor should go through
that channel, etc. She thought the name of
Brother Beck should be placed on record for
his generous donation of twelve hundred dol-
lars to the Relief Society house of Lehi Ward.
	Prest. John, the next speaker, said woman's
mission was never more important than at the
present time. "The Lord is purifying His
people and He will try us to the core. Let
us be careful how we judge each other until we
are tested ourselves. This is not a dark day
for Israel, but a day to test us and the nations.
Let us be faithful to our covenants, for we
have more than fifty millions on our side."
	Prest. H. H. Cluff spoke on unity and obe-
dience and thought we would do well to think
on those subjects. He spoke of the necesstiy
of concentrating our time and means if we
wish to accomplish anything. He spoke also
in the interest of the Stake tabernacle.
After singing conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by D. Graves.
		O. DANIELS, Secretary.


