BY EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.

	The following poem was read at the Ladies' Mass
Meeting on the 6th inst., and is published here instead of
in its proper place in the proceedings.

Must the "Mormons" be mute, when compassion is weep-
		ing?
	And sorrows unnumbered are right at our door?
Should "The daughter of Zion" be quietly sleeping—
	As if the dark day of her bondage were o'er?
Our wrongs and our cares—must we welcome as sweet?
Or walk into snares that are laid for our feet?

Like a whirlwind approaching, vile laws now are pending,
	If passed, all the pillars of Freedom will shake,
"Our cause is most just," yet it claims such defending:
	"The Women of Mormondom" needs must awake.
Thus we humbly petition Columbia's nation,
To frown on oppression and harsh legislation.

Our foes trouble little or nothing to mention,
	For "poor Mormon women" or down-trodden wives."
Were polygamy only the bone of contention,
	The "Mormons" might vote all the rest of their
Our foes may not count us smart, sensible folks:
But we see through their purpose,—contempt provokes

We prize not their pity, whose aim is to plunder
	A people who strictly to peace are inclined;
If the "Mormons" lose patience need any one wonder,
	Who considers o[-]r wrongs, by the crafty designed,
Yet they'll harvest disgrace where they hope for renown,
Who for power or place thrust the innocent down.

We appeal to the people in freedom's dominions—
	To the fair-minded millions who love what is right;
Must the "Mormons" be robbed for their faith and opin-
		ions—
	Crush'd and ground, 'twixt the millstones of greed and
		of spite?
Is it needful or lawful to wrest freedom from us
For what we believe, or for what we can't promise?

Our honor is priceless, our rights are all precious,
	Our affections are sacred, our households are dear;
Our husbands are heroes, in spite of the specious
	And wonderful (?) rulings of Judges so queer,
Who shift their decisions around and around;
Till for "Mormons" a verdict, of "Guilty" is found.

"The world loves its own" but it "hates us," and fights us,
	Our rights are withheld, and our friends are in prison;
Yet we never are comfortless, always the righteous
	"Through much tribulation" to glory have risen.
Let the spirit of fairness quench bigotry's fire;
Then the "Mormons" will reap all the praise they desire.

Foretold was our fate, of a truth "men revile us,"
	And the meanest of motives, our foes thus disguis'e;
Their black hearted falsehoods will fail to defile us,
	But the masses are misled by plausible lies. 
Alas! that such libels, so stript of the truth;
Are read more than Bibles, by thousands, forsooth.

If the vex'd "Mormon problem" must have a solution
	'Tis time something nobler than hate should be tried;
Sure, the "Mormons" have suffered enough persecution,
	Yet sustained by their faith they have lived, they have
		thrived.
The more they are slander'd—and hanted and driven—
The more they are prosper'd and favor'd of heaven.

Praise surely is due to the stout-hearted exiles—
	Who rescued from barrenness Utah's broad vales;
Who built all the bridges, and leveled the ridges
	And braved all the hardships such settling entailed.
God blessed our endeavor; He rescues us ever,
Though ev'ry thing fails, shall we doubt Him? No never.

Our homage we yield to the Lord our defenders,
	For manifold mercies, what less can we do?
"To Caesar" the Mormons, "submissively render

[Column 2]

	Whatsoever is just, whatsoever is due. 
But to those who would crush us or fleece us by law,
We can't for the life of us kneel down in awe.

To statesmen we turn, yea, we ask your protection,
	In the land that with blood was from tyranny freed;
Must the "Mormons" to-day be the only exception
	To the hosts, who can honor their conscience indeed?
Oh ye, whose brave fathers scaled freedom's proud heights
Concede to the "Mormons" their God-given rights.


[Column 1]	
