MISCELLANEOUS.

	Many a small man never ceases talking
about small sacrifices he makes; but he is a
great man who can sacrifice everything and
say nothing.
	Let any man in middle life look over the
list of those he has known and ask himself
whether those have always succeeded best
whose minds were most intent upon success.
	It is better that joy should be spread over
the whole of the day in the form of strength
than that it should be concentrated into ecs-
tasies full of danger and followed by reaction.
	The Vermont people have built a forty-five
degree toboggan chute and named it after Sena-
tor Edmunds. Now let the Illinois people
build a horizontal one, and name it after Col.
Morrison.
	One of the chief benefits of conversation is
that each can learn that which his companion
knows and he does not; but this benefit can
come only to the modest and receptive mind.
Most of the argument held by persons of op-
posite views is quite futile for the want of this
mental condition. The object is not to find
out the truth about the mooted subject, but to
shine and to conquer. Neither party becomes
wiser, neither is convinced. The triumph of
one and the humiliation of the other are alike
fruitless, and more or less unpleasant feeling is
left behind. A thorough defeat taken in the
right spirit is more really valuable to the truth-
seeker than twenty victories that only feed
vanity.
	Lazy people it is said, die young. Those
who are active in body and brain, as a rule
live to old age. Brain exercise and a good
deal of it, invigorates the body. As the arm
of the blacksmith develops muscle by its stal-
wart strokes, the brain increases in size and
vigor by judicious use. It is the reservoir of
energy to the rest of the body, and as it gains
in power, greater vitality and a stronger hold
on life are the result. Torpidity, inertness and
inactivity or irregular, fitful exercise of the
brain, are on the other hand forerunners of 
mental and physical degeneration. Avoid
stagnation then. Give both mind and body
plenty to do. Rust gathers in the wake of
idleness. Keep all the faculties bright and
polished by constant use, that life may be
happy and healthy, and old age a crown of
glory.


