			MRS. HANNAH T. KING.

	We have met to express our most indignant
feelings at the uncourteous, indelicate, not to
say insulting, treatment our sisters have ex-
perienced of late in the courts of our Territory
before the judges sitting in the chair of jus-
tice! Questions have been boldly asked of
them that even their closest friends would not
have presumed to ask them, and feelings of the
tenderest nature have been ruthlessly tram-
pled upon! And when some have determined
not to answer such questions they have been
sent to prison for “contempt of court!”' Most
apt is that word, no other could so properly
express the feelings such conduct must engen-


[Column 1]﻿
der; honorable wives, united by the holiest
covenants that hearts can make and words ex-
press, must submit and bear silently whatever
insulting questions judges please to propound
to them, simply because they are members of
the Church of Jesus Christ, founded by Him,
and they obey its principles, every one of
which is holy, pure and true. It is for this
we have assembled here to-day, to raise our
voices before high heaven and to the world,
and to protest against the dignity of our
womanhood being outraged in this uncalled-
for manner. I cannot refrain from asking here:
Are we in America, that glorious world-re-
nowned country, proudly denominated "The
land of the free and the home of the brave,"
that formerly raised its voice to the world, and
declared it should be the home for the destitute
and down-trodden of every nation under hea-
ven, and that every form of religion should be
allowed and protected under the broad and
fostering folds of its glorious flag and its hea-
ven inspired Constitution? Where shall this
oppressed people turn for redress? Who shall
lift the heavy hand of oppression from off their
shoulders? Scripture says: "Cursed is he who
putteth his trust in the arm of flesh;" but
should the Lord see fit to raise up such an arm
it will be filled by His Spirit, and the power
of the Holy One will alone be wielded by it.
Oh, my sisters, let us live closer to Him than
we have hitherto done! Our marriage vows
are most sacred. Let us live and rejoice in
the knowledge which His everlasting Gospel
has bestowed upon us, and while our wounded
hearts are smarting beneath the cruelty of our
enemies, let us echo the words of our blessed
Savior under more exquisite suffering, as an
excuse for them: "They know not what they
do!"
	Miss Nellie Colebrook then read the poem
of Mrs. Woodmansee, which is published on
the first page of this number. At its conclu-
sion the band played "Hail Columbia."

	Mrs Cornelia Clayton read an address by

