	﻿“WOMAN AN INSTITUTION.”

	It is a gratifying thought that everywhere
there is a "discerning public," or we might see
oftener than we do, "the blind leading the
blind"—consequences, both "falling into the
ditch." I thought this when I read, some
time ago, a piece headed as above, copied from
the Atlantic New Era. I pity the writer, be-
cause I know he is only half alive, and it ap-
pears to me that the sun of his moral system
shines only on one hemisphere of his brain, 
hence his obliquity of vision and obtuseness in
understanding character and position; he seems
to desire to assert something original, but hard-
ly knows what, so he calls woman an institu-
tion. He seems never to have met or known
a woman who can blend the useful with
the ornamental, therefore we will take
it for granted that he knows nothing of a
well educated woman, one who knows her
place and tries to hold and embellish it, who
can train a child without "spanking" the sense
out of it, but simply because she has a right to
be obeyed, and will be; he only knows woman
in extremes, and his extreme is one that has
never learned the art of governing nor ruling
and cannot train her children without loud
talking and a copious supply of birch twigs. 
We believe in blending the prose and the
poetry of life; this is the true philosopher's
stone "that converts all into gold!" Our model
woman is indeed the model woman; his is not
perfect by any means, only in "sewing on but-
tons!" We kindly commit him into her care,
and request her to attend to him, for with all 
her wonderful capability, she certainly has left
him short in that appendage! 
	He may despise a Ristori, a Sigourney, a
Hemans, and probably he despices beauty and
sublimity everywhere, simply because he does
not comprehend anything glorious or heavenly; 
but he must be told that the universal world
has ever established the fact that such are
lights burning and shining to warm, cheer, ele-
vate and console, that refine and edify and set
the spirit free from the clay, that unlock the
heart and brain, that have been sealed up, and
let "the captives go free." Who would not pity 
the man or woman who was incapable of ap-
preciating the charms of such mighty souls?
	The domestic sphere is, of course, the theatre
of woman's peculiar role, but did God intend
her to be a domestic drudge? I fancy not. 
In the severe reproof given to her in the Gar-
den of Eden, when about to be ejected from it, 
labor is not named; that was especially man's 
punishment; but every true woman desires to
be a helpmate to her brother man, and she ever
is so. Can she not be so trained that she can
embellish the drawing room, the parlor, and 
the kitchen? and also the laundry, and even 
the scullery! Verily she can. We have seen
and known women, whose education had been
of the first order, whose minds had been formed
in the highest mold, and whose fingers would
fly over the keys of the piano, developing Mo-

[Column 2]
zart, Handel, Beethoven and others of like re-
nown in their most abstruse music, were paint-
ers and French scholars, yet whose same sweet 
hands could turn into all the mysteries of the
cooking department, the dairy, and heap the 
table with the work and adornment of their
own hands, and do the honors, too, with ad-
mirable grace and skill, and then the half of
their attainments are not told. Such women
never dream of stepping out of their sphere; 
they know themselves and their position, and
simply hold their own as a regnant queen in
their own domestic territory. 
	Joan of Arc is to them not an "institution," 
but a revelation; they know that God has ever
had His emissaries, and in dark seasons the
weakest instrument in His hands can wield the
power He bestows, and like Joan of Arc, carry
out the mission to which He has ordained them, 
and proud man has to stoop his crest and 
marvel, as in the case of the woman named; 
her episode is one of the most remarkable—an 
uneducated girl, yet she rose up like "one
having authority," declared her errand and
what the finale should be, and it was so, and
kings had to bow and succumb to her heaven-
decreed mission. 
	Poets have ever been the prophets, to warn, 
to cheer, to elevate and to chronicle the his-
tory of men and nations, writing it in poems, 
epics and lyrics; they possess an inspiration—
yes, if they live for it—a revelation of the Spirit
of God—where they have perverted this
glorious gift we would believe "their virtues 
were all their own, their faults those of their
education and country." Shut out the poets
from the world and one might say, "Let us
have winter all the time!" 
	But, oh! may women study and learn their
mission, that which God gave them, when He
said, "She shall be a helpmeet for man." He
alone can teach them by the whisperings of
His Spirit; let them turn their spirit eye with-
in themselves and study all the material that
lies there, often unknown to themselves; let them
gather it up and utilize it for the happiness of 
themselves and for the benefit of their familites
and associates; this will render them fit to be-
come the teachers of their children, and lay a
foundation of future excellence, that when
they become men and women they may be
qualified for important positions, may nobly
fight the battle of life, and reflect honor upon
their parents and all whom they are associated
with; there is also a rich reward for those who
take pains to cultivate the faculties with which
God has endowed His creatures. Such an one
can with truth echo the words of one of our
poets—"My mind to me a kingdom is!" A
broad field of beauty and happiness is ever
open to the mind that seeks knowledge from 
the many fountains of instruction ever open to
all who desire to drink at their s[-]reams and re-
cruit their minds, when the body is worn down
with labor and the sterile cares of this work-a-
day world. It is good to be self-reliant, self-
controled, and self-disciplined; then we are in-
dependent and trouble no one. We have a
right to feed our mind with every aliment 
that it craves and that is within our reach, law-
fully to attain, and it is our imperative duty
to do so. Let us take the honey bee for our 
prototype, that gathers from every source, often
the opposite of beauty and sweetness, yet by
her alchemic art, she turns all into "nectarious
gold." "Knowledge is power," and if rightly
applied, produces happiness and wealth of


every kind. How often have I echoed the
the sweet lines of Watt's hymn:

	"Thanks to my friends for their care in my breeding
	Who taught me betimes to love working and reading."
