MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:
	It is our best policy, as it is our duty, and in
accordance with our religion and the counsels
of our leaders, to meet all afflictions with pa-
tience, and to "suffer wrong rather than do 
wrong." "Defense should be our motto," and 
it is the motive power of this meeting to-day.
The mountain of evil that has been and is in 
prospect of being heaped upon our people,
the real brunt and heft of which falls on the
devoted heads of women and innocent chil-
dren, has put it into the hearts of the women
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints to protest against such unjust and un-
necessary proceedings, and if possible to make
a plain statement of our principles and opin-
ions; for be it known to all the world we most
assuredly possess both, and are neither slow
nor weak in making them known and felt as
far as we can, in a righteons way. We wish
to deal with stern facts to-day, and we there-
fore ask if the majority of monogamous fami-
lies of the United States, or even the world
are very profusely adorned with the flowers of
virtue and morality. Can a true and verita-
ble marriage which receives the divine sanc-
tion be immoral or the issue illegitimate?
Certainly at this point the bone of contention 
is made bare and the question is asked "is
it of divine origin?" And who but the indi-
vidual can decide this for himself? A true
marriage cannot be productive of evil, for it
is the perfect union of heart and soul, sancti-
fied by mutual consent and sealed by God's
holy ordinance. The "Mormon" marriage
covenant is as binding on the man as the
woman, for any departure from the marriage
law is a deadly sin punished by excommunica-
tion which we regard as spiritual death. The
Latter-day Saints regard plural marriage as
an extension of all the privileges and good re-
sults arising from single marriage. Has not
every woman the undeniable right to be an
honorable wife and mother—of fulfilling the
end of her creation, and do not the circum-
stances of life and statistics prove this to be
impossible under the monogamic system? If
the same ceremony seals each wife to her hus-
band, may not each family be a realization of
the beautiful picture of one father and one
mother, each the equal of the other in that
family, happy in the consciousness of mutual
and eternal affection, to rear about the hearth-
stone an intelligent and God-fearing family?
Our faith and confidence in the chastity and 
pure motives of our husbands, fathers,mothers
and sons is such that we challenge the pro-
duction of a better system of marriage and the
records of more moral or purer lives. Hand
in hand with celestial marriage is the eleva-
tion of woman. In church she votes equally
with men, and politically she has the suffrage
raising her from the old common law, mono-
gamic serfdom to political equality with men.
Rights of property are given her so that she, 
as a married woman, can hold property in her
own individual right. 
	Chaste and honorable women have been
taken alone into a room with fifteen men and
been baited and badgered by prosecuting offi-
cers and forced, on pain of imprisonment, to
answer the most insulting and indecent ques-
tions concerning their personal condition, their
expected maternity, and their private relations
with their husbands. Children of tender
years have been snatched from the pure home
circle and plied with questions concerning
their father's marital relations quite beyond
their years, until they tremble with open-eyed
wonder. Some noble women, rather than re-

[Column 3]
ply to these improper questions, have submitted
to imprisonment under the most trying circum-
stances. One became a mother within a few
days after leaving the penitentiary:  another
was imprisoned with a babe in her arms; an-
other with a babe at the breast, passing months
under the same roof with the most degraded
felons.
	We do not believe that the administration
of the laws as carried on in Utah would if
understood, be approved or sustained. We
will not yet believe that justice and equity for
want of a resting place have forsaken this
glorious land. Therefore, we, the women of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, once more make a plain confession of
our faith and principles—of convictions formed
by the unfettered conversion of conscience, 
that we do firmly believe in the divine
origin and the eternal benefits of celestial mar-
riage—that this system conduces to the eleva-
tion and independence of women—that the
men of this faith who are guided by the
spirit of the Gospel have the highest regard
for virtue and morality—are the most to be
trusted and the most loyal citizens of any 
men who live upon the earth. Therefore, in 
the name of justice, equity and conscience we
protest against special legislation which in-
hibits the conduct of our lives according to 
our best judgment for this life and most es-
pecially for the future. We appeal to the
honest-hearted of this nation, from President
Cleveland to the least one who will raise a 
voice against oppression, to use their influence
as the constituencies of Congressmen and de-
mand a stay in the proceedings against this 
people.
	Miss Nellie Colebrook then read a poetical
address by
		MRS. REBA PRATT,
which lack of space prevents us from pub-
lishing at this time. It will no doubt appear in a
subsequent number.
	After the choir sang a piece composed by
Bishop O. F. Whitney,
			DR. E. R. SHIPP
spoke as follows:

