NO HOPE OF BETTERING A BAD CONDITION.

	The time has come for plain and honest
speech. The hope of bettering a bad condi-
tion of things by patient forebearance, by ap-
probation for all that could be approved. and 
by the desire to avoid every cause of probable
difficulty, has induced Democrats to withhold
truths that can no longer be properly con-
cealed from public view. Candid considera-
tion of them may possibly provide a remedy
for existing evils.
	A year has passed away since Mr. Cleve-
land was inaugurated as President, under
cheerful and encouraging auspices. The
party was united and the outlook was satis-
factory when he entered the White House.
The situation to-day, compared with what it
was on the 4th of March, 1885, is sadly al-
tered.
	It is not necessary to enquire into the causes
which have brought about this serious change.
The fact exists that there is no cordial confi-
dence, familiar communication, nor political
cohesion between the President and the Demo-
crats in Congress. They have been drifting 
apart gradually, until it may be said the line
of separation between them has become broad
and marked. The President's want of experi-
ence in national affairs, and his slight ac-
quaintance with public men, are doubtless
responsible for some of the errors into which
he was unconsciously enticed in the beginning of 
his new career. The composition of the cabi-
net illustrates one important mistake
which the omission of the names of Mr. Thur-
man and other distinguished Democrats made
conspicuous, and provoked criticism without
regard to party.
	In the limited distribution of patronage the
President has suffered, as all his predecessors
of late years have suffered, by either wilful or
accidental deception. The discovery of this
practice made him suspicious in other cases,
and by slow degrees a mutual distrust has
grown up which now appears as a threatening
danger to the Democracy.
	A series of singular successes in a brief
career has undoubtedly produced the belief in
the President's mind that his whole course has
been acceptable to the people, and that how-
eve politicians may disagree with him. he is
always sure of that support. This conviction
strengthens the self-assertion which seems to
be natural to his character, and is firmly and
bluntly maintained against arguments and
mild protestations when differences are dis-
cussed.
	The President has laid down for his own
guidance a chart of policy, so far as the pub-
lic offices are concerned, from which he will
not depart without a complete change of pur-
pose. He has announced it with repeated
emphasis in the application of the civil-service
law and rules, but in other respects he is ex-
tremely reserved
	There are many vacancies now existing in
important offices, some of which are temporari-
ly filled under the law by judges of the Federal 
courts, for which the President has thus far
declined to make nominations. He gives
no reason for this abstention, and
answers no inquiries concerning the ap-
plications, except in the most inconclusive
way.
	Mr. Cleveland's habit of extreme caution as
often misses as hits its intended mark. He de-

[Column 2]

lights in surprises, and in the most seemingly
indifferent way he is constantly seeking infor-
mation concerning persons who have been
proposed for appointments at home or abroad.
Sometimes he accepts opinions that might
better be disregarded.
	These methods have estranged leading
Democrats who do not admire the President's
peculiarities and do not fully appreciate the
circumstances in which he is placed. He has 
not invited his fellowship, and they have not
felt themselves justified in seeking confidence
that the President had the power to bestow,
and which he alone could imitate.
	The fault on the part of the President may
be ascribed to their constitutional organization
and to the habits of his life. The fault on the
part of the Democrats is that they failed to
see the obstacle in the path of a good under-
standing, and therefore could not remove it
by an effort which would not have compromised
their dignity.
	As a consequence of this misapprehension,
or unfortunate disagreement, there has come
to be a cold and ceremonious relation between
him and the party in Congress, with which he
should be on the most cordial terms. It may
almost be described, if applied in the aggre-
gate, as a positive estrangement. Of
course, there are personal exceptions, as
there always will be in such cases, while fa-
vors reward submission.
	At the last reception given by the Presi-
dent, with a display of elegant and costly 
decoration that astonished some of the accus-
tomed visitors at the White House, there were
not a dozen members of Congress present.
The absence of many Senators especially had
been noticed on a previous occasion, but in
this instance the non-attendance was as marked
as when the Whigs cut John Tyler and refused
absolutely to cross the threshold of the Exe-
cutive Mansion under any form of invita-
tion.
	This state of things cannot continue with-
out damage to the Democratic party,
which should stand, in patriotic consideration,
above the President and above members of
Congress. The great cause and the principles
which that party represents, and which are
identified with the progress and perpetuity of
free institutions, must not be imperiled be-
cause of these differences, which ought to be
quickly adjusted.
	Hence it is gratifying to know that a con-
ference between accredited leaders and the
President will soon take place, at which the
points of disagreement will be frankly dis-
cussed, and with a hope of a clearer under-
standing. With proper explanations and
mutual concessions, a perfect agreement ought
to be reached. Whoever stands in the way of
harmony will certainly be the loser in the
long run. The Democracy can forgive much,
but treachery they will not forgive.—New
York Sun.


[Column 1]

