NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Miss Alice Longfellow held a large card re-
ception on Saturday, the first entertainment
that has been given in the classic old Craigie
house since the death of the poet. 

	John B. Gough is said to have had what is
called a strong presentiment that he would not
survive the present year.  He frequently told
his friends that he would never see seventy, 
which he would have been in August, 1888.  

	At the regular meeting of the Shakespeare
Society in Columbia College last night the
copy of the second folio of Shakespeare, dis-
covered in Utah some months ago, bears upon
the fly leaf autograph signatures, which are
said to be those of Shakespeare and John
Ward, the actor. 

	A concession has been granted by the Swiss
Government to a firm of electrical engineers
at Geneva for making a railway up Mont Sal-
ene, near that place.  The line will be made
with a central track very similar to that of the


Rigi line, the toothed pinion which works in-
to it being driven by machinery.
	The first settlers of Suffolk county brought
with them the Bible, and in some of these
were bound selections from Psalms set to grand
chorals. J. Lyon Gardiner, the present
owner of Gardiner's Island, has the Bible
which belonged to his ancestor, Lyon Gardiner,
who built the first fort at Saybrook, Conn.
This book was printed in London in 1599. It
contains the book of Psalms, with musical
notes. A like volume is in the family of the
late Hon. Silas Horton, Southold. It belonged
to the first Barnabas Booth, who was in
Southold in 1640. The Huguenots brought
the French Testaments with them. The Testa-
ments contained one hundred and fifty Psalms
set to chorals with a note to every syllable. A 
copy of this work is owned by J. H. Bornean,
of Southold.
	The Queen of Portugal is reputed the best
dressed lady in Europe. Her original style of
beauty associated with her exquisite taste and
her enjoyment of abundant means to gratify
her well-skilled choice of colors, fit, and ma-
terial, give her supremacy in the realm of
dress and adornment. But the lineage of the
distinguished lady who shares the honors of 
royalty with King Luis I. is of the highest,
and gives her family relations with some of
the proudest reigning houses of Europe. Queen
Pia is the youngest daughter of the late King
Vittorio Emanuele, of Italy, and sister, of
course, of King Umberto I. She was born
Oct. 16, 1857, and was married Oct. 6, 1862,
before she was 15 years old, to King Luis, who
had succeeded his brother, Pedro V., less than
a year before that time. Her husband is nine
years older than she. The royal couple have
two children, both boys. One of them, Prince
Carlos, Duke of Braganza, was born Sept. 28,
1863, and the other, Prince Affonso, Duke of
Oporto, on July 31, 1865.


