SISTERS AND FRIENDS:

	We have met here to-day en masse to ear-
nestly protest against the indignities that have
recently been heaped upon members of our
sex by the courts and Federal officials, and
would-be political autocrats of this Territory.
Our mothers and sisters are dragged into court
and asked the most indecent questions; in
many cases separated from their families.
Homes are broken up and inmates scattered.
Our fathers and brothers are cast into prison
or exiled.  And for what? For obeying God-
given principles: laws revealed from heaven.
We find by reading the sacred book called the
Bible that God commanded Adam and Eve to
multiply and replenish the earth; this com-
mandment evidently was intended as much
for Eve as Adam. Hence, holy women of old,

[Column 3]
to whom God administered by sending angels
to them or appearing Himself, were anxious 
for posterity, and in some instances, as we find
recorded in sacred writ, where women that had
husbands failed to have children through some
irregularity of nature, gave] their handmaids
to their husbands to be their wives—for in-
stance, Sarah gave her handmaid Hagar to
Abraham to be his wife. After this the Lord
blessed Sarah in her old age and gave her a
son, from whom was descended Jesus of Nazar-
eth, the veritable Son of God.  Jacob was
first married to his cousin Leah, then Rachel,
and after this their handmaids, who were given
to Jacob by their mistresses in order to en-
large their families, and through the sacrifice
made by Rachel she herself became fruitful
and bore children to her husband, and the
children of these four wives were the twelve 
Patriarchs whose names are to be written on
the gates of the Holy Jerusalem which is to
descend out of heaven.  The great Prophet
Samuel was the son of Elkanah, who had two
wives, Hannah and Penninah.  Hannah had
no children, on account of which she was very
sorrowful.  She repaired to the temple on a
certain day and sought her God in prayer.
There she met with Eli, the priest; after learn-
ing that she had been offering up a petition,
he promised her that it should be granted.
God not only sanctioned polygamy, but great-
ly blessed in every way men and women who
entered into these principles.  The Apostle
Paul mentions men and women of great faith
that were in polygamy, and that they obtained
a good report on account of their faith.  I am
free to state that the principle of celestial mar-
riage is an integral part of the faith of the
Latter-day Saints, because I have an abiding
knowledge within myself of its truthfulness.
In the light of these facts, then, and in view
of the truth that in this Territory there is a
ruthless disregard for the local rights of the
people (rights inestimable to themselves and
formidable to tyrants only), I, for one, as a
consistent daughter of Utah, anxious to pro-
tect the rights and privileges of my sex, deem
it my duty to join with you in repudiating the
accusations against us, and the injustice and
extreme measures of the courts and Federal
officers of this Territory.

	The following address by

