SISTERS AND FRIENDS:
	We consider that in our case patience and 
endurance have ceased to be a virtue, and we
cannot longer restrain our feelings of wounded
dignity and subdued indignation, when all that
is held dear by us is trampled upon and our
most sacred rights and privileges withheld
from us. Our fathers, husbands, brothers and 
sons, and, indeed, many of our honored and
respected ladies are exiled from their homes
and forced to flee from the minions of the
law. Those whom we love and honor and who re-
spect and honor us are imprisoned, obliged to 
share the cells of vile and wicked men, and
even to wear the badges of shame and infamy.
And for what? We have dared to worship
God according to the dictates of our own con-
sciences. This is our grievous offense. A cer-
tain tenet of our religious faith our opponents
cannot countenance, because so contrary to
their own sinful practices. The evil results of
these practices we have personally observed,
particularly in the hospitals of the world, 
where fallen women seek the shelter they can-
not obtain from those who should have pro-
tected them instead of throwing them and their
offspring upon the mercies of a cold, unfeeling
world. By consulting the national statistics
we find New York with 30,000 women living
lives of prostitution, Chicago 20,000, Boston
and Cincinnati each 10,000 and other cities
with a like ratio according to the number of
inhabitants. Unfortunately, a record of the
opposite sex is not kept. We are accused of
being down-trodden and oppressed. We deny


[Column 1]
the charge! for we know there cannot be found
a class of women upon the earth, who occupy
a more elevated position in the hearts of their
husbands, or whose most delicate and refined
feelings are so respected as here in Utah.  Let
our work speak for us.  We are a temperate,
God-fearing, law-abiding people.  We consider
virtue and chastity the crowning ornament of
woman’s character.  Our ladies are educated
and refined, and their lives are constantly
characterized by acts of nobility, fortitude and
usefulness.
	“To err is human to forgive divine.”  We
forgive and pity our enemies, realizing that
God and one man are a great majority; and
that the Latter-day Saints will ultimately pre-
vail and triumph over the opposition of the
whole world.
	The next address was by
