MRS. PRESIDENT AND FRIENDS:

	In contemplating the position we as a peo-
ple occupy at the present time, politically, so-
cially, morally and religiously, attracting as
we do the attention not only of this great na-
tion, but the nations of the earth; misrepre-
sented, maligned and despised as we are, I feel
that as a woman and a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints I am
proud, and would not exchange my position
with any queen or empress.  True, we are
passing through persecution.  Our noble hus-
bands and sons are imprisoned, as Christ said
they would be.  Their affectionate wives and
children are left without their protection, sub-
jected to insult and derision by their inquisitors,
and many left without means of sustenance—
not however to the cold charities of the world
—for as a people, if one suffers, all suffer; and
thanks to our Heavenly Father, who causes
His sun to shine on the evil as well as on the
good, there is enough for all, and it will prove
us as a people, whether or not we love our
neighbor as ourselves.  The young who might 
have been deceived into believing the object of
our religious persecutors to be the correcting of
our morals are thoroughly convinced to the
contrary through their lying and misrepresenta-
tions.  How we honor and admire our noble
sires and husbands for their integrity.  They


gave us the right of franchise that our now
would-be reformers would deprive us of.  We
are called the down-trodden women of Utah;
but we know that the liberty and privileges we
enjoy will compare favorably with those of any
other people on the face of the earth.
	I am sorry for the rulers of this nation, that
they should allow themselves to be blinded by
prejudice and misrepresentations of a few ad-
venturers, who are hungering and lusting after
the pleasant homes and property of the law-
abiding, God-fearing people of this community.
But they are fulfilling prophecies.  I am sorry
for this nation because they are fighting against
high heaven, and I pray that their eyes may
be opened to this fact before it is too late.
	On motion it was declared the sense of the
meeting that Congress be memorialized,and the
following committee were appointed:
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Dr.
R. B. Pratt, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Salt Lake City;
Mrs. Johns, Provo;  Mrs. Pitchforth, Nephi;
Mrs. H. C. Brown, Ogden;  Miss Ida I. Cook,
Logan;  Miss Ida Coombs, Payson.
	After singing by the choir, Mrs. Zina D.
Young spoke a few words of exhortation to the
ladies, and offered the benediction.


