			LAURA HYDE MINER.

	The head of the nation has said, the welfare
of a country was centered in the homes of the
land, where the husband and the pure monoga-
mous wife ruled their children in love.  Can
he lay claim to such a home, a wife and child-
ren, heirs to a father’s fame and a mother’s
virtue?  Are the priests and sisterhoods of the
Roman Catholic chuch, bound to celibacy by
the strictest vows, doing their duty to their
country according to that standpoint?  Yet
who would dream of Congress legislating away
the bachelor’s freedom or forcing priest or nun
to sacreligious marriage.
	Another illegal point in our treatment is, all
women are disfranchised who are living with
a polygamist; the legal wife as well as the
others, for our law-makers hold that if she
lives with him to whom she was married for
better or for worse, she is equally guilty.  Yet
a learned judge has lately dragged a legal wife
into court to testify in a case again[-]t her hus-
band, holding that the wrong was against her,
so she was a competent witness and must testi-
fy, or be adjudged guilty of contempt.
	The law now pending in Congress proposes
to disorganize our institutions and apply the
surplus means to other purposes than the peo-
ple intended.  Are the religious bodies of
these United States prepared for such a prece-
dent?  We are not only pleading, protesting
and suffering for our own liberty, but for the
future freedom of every citizen of this country.
What laws are made for the benefit of the
whole nation, we are willing to abide by or
bear the penalty of their infringement without
complaint, for we know that God is able and
willing to reward His servants.  Now we wish
to bear our testimony to those that are array-
ing wives and children against their husbands
and fathers that, “With what measure ye mete
it shall be measured to you again.”
			DR. E. S. BARNEY
was the next speaker. She said:
	It is said we live in a free country, for which
our fathers fought and bled, where is enjoyed
free speech, a free press, and a right to worship
God according to the dictates of our own con-
science.  Not so; rumor has falsely spoken.
Utah is the exception.  Her history has not
been read; it has lain a closed book to the mass
of the world, and to the fifty-five millions of
people of the United States.  Not a tithe of
that number has ever heard of the peaceable,
industrious, moral and God-fearing people that
live in the little Territory of Utah, called Lat-
ter-day Saints.  Yet some few politicians,
eagar for pelf, stigmatize us as a people, and
say we are a “blot” on the body politic, and
that fifty-five million people are opposed to us.
That is a fallacy.  There are some who are
like the story of a Quaker with the dog.  He
says, “I would not hurt thee, but I’ll give thee
a bad name.”  So he turned him loose, and
cried Mad dog! Mad dog! Should a nation

[Column 2]
fold her arms and sleep, or a mother unheed
the cries of her child, that appeals to her in
distress?  Have we not appealed and protested
against oppression to the higher courts of the
land, and asked them to investigate our cause
and see if we were obedient children?  What
was the response?  The waste basket received
the protest unanswered.
	Men are imprisoned because they will not
disown their wives, and if they dare say they
believe in God,and intend to carry out His law,
they must be sent to the penitentiary.  Dare I
say I believe?  Yes, I will say more.  I know
that God has spoken from the heavens, and
that He has called and chosen His sons and
daughters to carry out His law.  Suppose it
be at the sacrifice of liberty, or even life;
after the sacrifice comes the reward, and we
can afford to wait the recompense of the Al-
mighty.  There is no righteous jurisprudence
for a Latter-day Saint in our courts here in
Utah.  In the song of the “Pauper’s Last Ride,”
the chorus is:

		“Drive fast his bones, over the stones,
		For he is a pauper whom nobody owns.”

	But the chorus of the last verse is:

		"Drive gently his bones, over the stones,
		For he is a pauper whom his Father yet owns."

	Courts and jurors need not think for one
moment, that they will not be held accountable
to God for this last ride that some of the
Saints have taken through the sickness and
distress brought upon them by this oppression.
	We do and have asked for nothing but our
rights under the government.  We ask for
just laws to be made.  We ask to peaceably
occupy our homes that we ourselves have made,
in which we intend to stay.  We ask for the
same right under government that our sister
States and Territories enjoy.
	While we honor the name of Washington,
Jefferson, Madison, Monroe and the framers of
the grand old Constitution, we cannot fail to
see the undermining power that is sapping the
vitals, the life and the essence  of our govern-
ment and honeycombing the entire fabric, and
will leave it in the near future a tottering
structure, which will disgrace the land and the
God that gave it birth.
	Why should a nation cry mad dog! mad
dog! when her capital cities are filled with
such infamy and crime?  Instead, she had
better borrow some of the examples of purity
and virtue of her polygamous sisters.  We
are learning the lessons that will give us
long life, peace and happiness, that kings and
queens might be proud to possess; and our
examples are towering heavenward, from which
source we look for the response that God has
promised—the bursting of our fetters, the
conquering of our foes, and a final millennial
reign.

