OUR CHILDREN.

	It is a great boon to the rising generation,
that the old custom of "telling ghost stories"
and "witch stories," is pretty much abandoned.
And it is to be greatly hoped that it may
never be revived. Pleasant and true stories
are the best for the little ones to become inter-
ested in. Those things which awaken and lay
claim to their earliest thoughts and imagina-
tions are sure to continue with them though
all their lives; and, without doubt, have some
effect even upon the after life, inasmuch as
words and actions are influenced by impres-
sions made on the human mind.
	In connection with this subject, it may be
observed how very important it is that little
ones should be early taught to pray. Chil-
dren who, as soon as they can talk, are taught
to call upon their Heavenly Father for favors
which they can understand no one else is able
to grant, to thank Him for their lives, for
health and strength; to look to Him as one
interested in all their little affairs and what-
ever concerns them, as much or even more
than the "papa" whom they believe in as the
man among men; children thus taught rare-


ly if ever forget or turn aside from their early
instructions. They have a sure hope to cling
to through all their lives, which will buoy
them up under the most trying circumstances;
a hope, a faith that is worth more than every-
thing else without it.
	If correct ideas of the Eternal Father and
His attributes are planted and fostered in the
infant mind, all after instructions of a worthy
nature will be more readily received. The
child who has been brought to a realization of
the great mercies, to all that lives, manifested
by the Creator of the earth and its creatures
will be quick to comprehend why he should
be kind, gentle and forebearing in his treat-
ment of all things with which he is associated.
	Here it may be appropriate to refer to the
subject of kindness to dumb creatures as a
principle which should be early aud deeply
impressed upon the minds of the young.
From a lengthy and highly interesting letter
upon this subject by the same lady resident of
the Isle of Wight lately quoted in these
columns, the following story is taken; which,
though not a pleasant one, is true, striking and
instructive.
	The lady writes: "I will mention another
instance which happened here.
	Two men, (so called,) deprived a frog of its
two front legs, and then amused themselves
watching the struggles of their helpless vic-
tim in the dust, on its hind legs only. Mean-
while, a poor lady had earnestly besought and
remonstrated with them on the unhappy
creature's behalf, but all to no purpose, sub-
jecting herself to insult in vain.
	A fortnight after, one of these wretches
was drawn into some machinery, escaping in-
deed with his life, let us hope to repent, but,
with the loss of both his arms!
	This story proclaims its own moral; and it
would be well if those who show themselves
deaf to all appeal to feeling, who seem,
indeed, to have no feeling to appeal to, would
accept the possible consequences to themselves,
remembering that there is such a word as
retribution."
	The thought occurs that if those men,
(so called,) who are now depriving many of
our innocent little ones of their fathers, at
least, for the time being, and many blame-
less wives of their husbands, would take such
lessons as the above to heart they might re-
pent of their evil deeds in time to escape some
of the terrible calamities awaiting them.
		LULA.


