	VISIT TO BLACKWELL'S ISLAND.

	As perhaps many of our readers may not know
much about this island, it may be stated that it is
in the East River, and is a long, rather narrow
strip of land, belonging to the City of New York.
It is one of a group of islands that are all used
for public purposes, but of these, Blackwell's Island
seems to be the principal one and most conspicu-
ous. It is quite imposing in its appearance, owing
to the style of its architecture and the sea walls
around the shores, which are stoutly built of dark
grey granite. Most of the buildings on the Island
are of the same material, and have a rude battle-
mented sort of appearance, and remind us of
what we read of the feudal castles and towers of
the olden times. The stone is quarried on the
Island, and the labor has all been done by con-
victs.
	The principal buildings on this Island are the
Penitentiary, the Lunatic Asylum for women, the
Alms House for men, and the Alms House for
women, the Work House, Blind Asylum, Charity
Hospital, Hospital for Incurables and Convales-
cent Hospital. The buildings are all in good condi-
tion, and great pains is taken to have the most
perfect order and cleanliness observed. Neverthe-
less it is very distressing to a sensitive person to
see so much misery gathered together in one place.
Never can we forget the sights of that day, going
alone, without a friend to whom we could give
expression to thoughts and feelings that will al-
most force themselves into words when one looks
upon so much human suffering and degradation.
On the boat which conveyed the people, there
were quite a number of passengers, but
they, with only a few exceptions, were persons
going to see some particular friend or relative in
one or the other of these institutions.
	The first thing that drew special attention was
an old man who had twin babies in his arms, care-
fully wrapped in an old shawl, taking them over to
Blackwell's Island to the Infants's Hospital, as his
ticket stated. He was German, and could not
speak English enough to tell whose children they
were, but he seemed very tender of them and
proud to show them—two fine boys, and the ticket
said five days old; also giving the name of each.
An old Irish woman who belonged to the boat,
when she saw the ladies so interested in the babies
asked if we would like to see the women prisoners,
who were down stairs locked up, and when the 
ladies said, "yes," she took us down and let us 
look in through a little window; there were four-
teen of them going to the workhouse—a sort of 
house of correction; she spied one that she knew
and called out to her, "Martha, are you back
again," and the girl replied, "Yes," in a tone of
perfect self-possession. "What made you do it,"
said the woman. "O I couldn't help it," was the
answer. "How much have you got this time?"

[Column 2]
"Three months," replied the girl, as if it was only
a commonplace affair, and not worth talking about.
On inquiry afterwards concerning the matter, we
were told she had been drunk and got into a row
and been arrested and sent up, as they called it. She
was rather a good looking girl, perhaps twenty or
a little more. Even this was quite a shock, but
when you see them in hundreds it is simply dread-
ful. There were fifty-four men prisoners on the
other side of the boat.
	On arriving at the Island, the first place in our
way, after landing, was Charity Hospital, and we
went through that entire building, noting every-
thing carefully. The men and women had separ-
ate departments for each class of cases, from 
thirty to forty and fifty in a ward, and everything
seemed arranged with the utmost care and con-
sideration. We talked a little with the nurses,
and afterwards with the superintendent. Even
in this one place, we saw suffering enough to
make one heartsick. Next we went to the Peni-
tentiary, and, as it was then the dinner hour, we
had a good opportunity of seeing all the inmates,
except those in the cells. Six hundred men were
eating in one room and the remainder in another,
and nearly as many women in their part of the
building; only think of it! We asked what pro-
portion were women, as the number seemed to be
quite large in looking at them, and the warden
showed us the daily record kept for reference,
which showed 1,763 inmates, and of this number
there were 995 men, 767 women, and one child
born in the place. The average number, we were
told, had been 1,200, but it is increasing. The
warden seemed to take our meaning wrong, and
he said, "You think the women are few compared
to the men?" We replied on the contrary we thought
it a large proportion. He said, "Now let me tell
you something else in connection with this mat-
ter. A large proportion of these women are in
for longer terms than the men." We inquired
why, and he replied that they were there for
abortions, infanticides and the murder of children,
and inwardly we thought, where are the men
who have brought these poor outcast women to
such a desperate strait. It is certainly a matter
for serious thought; indeed, one may well exclaim
with the poet,

	"My soul is sick with wrong and outrage
	With which the world is filled."

	Later in the afternoon we saw dozens of these
male convicts fastened to the great heavy carts
hauling rock and dirt, etc., and long lines of them,
six abreast, going from the wharf towards the
house. They have shops for all sorts of labor,
and men over them. The warden explained that
the prison was conducted on the silent principle,
and that no communication between the prisoners
was allowed, except in teaching and instructing
them about their employment. Time will not
permit to tell all, or half, even, in that one
place.
	Leaving the Penitentiary, the next place we
we went through was the Alms House for women.
There were between seven and eight hundred in-
inmates, so the matron said, and it really seemed as
if there was no end to them. The way they
gathered around and chattered was unlike and
more grotesque than anything we had ever seen,
or ever expect to see again. They all talked at
once; some were Irish, some French, some Ger-
man, some Danes or Swedes, and some Americans,
but the larger number, by far, were Irish. They
were nearly all old, but a few were young, and we
learned in talking to them that they were disabled
in various ways from doing hard work, and had
been in the Hospital, but discharged because they
were not sick enough to be there, so sent to the
Alms House, as they had no homes to go to.
What an immense amount of means must be ex-
pended upon this one island every year. We
went through a part of the Alms House for males,
and saw groups of them sitting in the sunshine,

[Column 3]
and some walking up and down, but they were not
so talkative as the women; perhaps because they
were pretty nearly all smoking. The one item of
tobacco must be a consideration, for some of the
women smoked, too. There were not quite so
many men in the Alms House as there were
women, we were told.
	From there we went to the Hospital of Incur-
ables, and clear through, all of which we will
leave untold, for tongue or pen can never tell the
agony and suffering, the woe and horrors of the
place, though everything is done in the nicest
manner possible, and the greatest care taken of
the poor afflicted creatures. The Convalescent
Hospital is not so distressing, and one feels a
little more cheerful. The Workhouse we visited
last, and there were between eleven and twelve
hundred in it. One of the superintendents showed
us through, and took special pains to give us cor-
rect information concerning the management. He
seemed to take special pride in the kitchen and
cooking part of the establishment, and told us they
had a head cook who was hired and paid, and
forty assistants, who were inmates of the house.
There was one large room full of shelves filled
with bread, and he seemed quite proud of the fact
that they baked ninety barrels of flour every day.
Here again the men and women had separate de-
partments, as is the custom everywhere, and after
the superintendent had shown us the men's side
of the house, he called the matron, who took us
through the women's side.
	By this time we were too much exhausted, body
and spirit, to go to see anything so pitiful as the
Blind Asylum, but ventured to look in at the In-
sane Asylum for women. And only think of it,
over 1,700 women are gathered on that Island, all
more or less insane. It is too dreadful to contem-
plate, but when brought face to face with the fact,
one cannot ignore the reality, however repugnant
it may be to dwell upon. These terrible condi-
tions of human life are greatly to be deplored, and
where is the remedy? How can the causes be
hindered? The crowding together of such great
numbers in large cities is one direct cause it would
seem, and it really is an almost herculean labor
to look after affairs upon such a tremendous scale.
As we neared the shore to take the steamer for
New York, the men were bringing more patients
for the Hospitals, and they called out for three
stretchers. On these those unable to be carried
in any other way were placed and carried to the
Charity Hospital. Weary and sick at heart with
the distressing sights we had seen, and the
terrible things we had heard, we were glad to go
on board the steamer and turn our gaze from that
Island of horrors.


