[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: A HEART OF GOLD. | Author: CLIO]

A HEART OF GOLD.

BY CLIO.
	A FAIR young girl stood at the garden
gate at the twilight hour of the 4th day of
July, 1857. She was dressed in holiday
attire, for there had been a celebration and
at that date, no such event ever occurred
without the assistance of Miss Grace Ali-
son.
	The expression on her face was rather

[Column 2]
an anxious one, as she glanced restlessly,
first in one direction, then in another. Sud-
denly her blue eyes brightened, as she
caught sight of a horseman in the distance,
instantly followed by a look of impatience
as she saw he was not alone.
	“Oh, dear!” she sighed, “why will
John associate with those Adams boys.
Everybody knows they are the worst boys
in town, yet he will persist in befriending
them. It puts me out of all patience.”
	By this time the horsemen were nearly
opposite where Grace was standing. They
came along at full gallop, whooping at the
top of their voices, curvetting here and
there and cutting all sorts of antics. They
did not see the girl until they were close
upon her, or it is quite likely they would
have exhibited better behavior. As it was
they drew up their horses sharply, bowed
in a shamefaced manner, and made out as
though they would stop and engage in con-
versation. Grace looked straight at them,
without a sign of recognition, and as they
approached, turned on her heel, and walk-
ed away toward the house.
	“Humph!” exclaimed Joe, the eldest of
the Adams’, “proud as Lucifer, ain’t she?
S’pose she’s ashamed of us. All right
Miss Alison, when I attempt to speak to
you again, it will be a long time from now.
Come Jack lets go down to the Square.”
Away he galloped, followed closely by his
brother, neither noticing, in their headlong
haste, that John Heplar did not follow
them. That young gentleman, complete-
ly sobered by the cool treatment they had 
just received, rode slowly away in an op-
posite direction. Several times he reined
in his horse, on the point of turning back
and seeking an interview with Grace; but
as often he changed his mind, being asham-
ed of his conduct and afraid of her scorn.
	It had been his intention to invite Grace
to the party; but he had fallen in with his
evil genii who had towed him about all
day, until they had made him half drunk
and wholly miserable. He resolved now
to stay at home, and not show himself at
the party at all.
	He flung himself down upon his bed, but
he could not sleep. The demon of jealousy
took possession of him; he felt that he
must know if Grace had gone, and who
had been her escort. If it was that Charlie
Benson,—his blood surged hotly through
his veins at the bare thought, and he felt
as if he should smother. He arose quickly,
put on his hat, and started for the scene of
merry-making.
	He looked eagerly among the crowd
congregated under the great bowery. Yes
sure enough, there she was, and dancing,
though he could not deny that she looked
grave and troubled. She was not dancing
with Charlie Benson, much to his relief,
but with an elder, married brother. He sat
down in a corner to watch, and nurse his
misery, neither occupation proving very
agreeable. He sought later for an oppor-
tunity to speak to Grace, but was not suc-
cessful. She seemed deliberately to shun
him, and put obstacles in the way of a
reconciliation. He went home miserable

[Column 3]
enough, and continued in that condition
for several days. When he thought he
could endure it no longer, he summoned
all his courage, went boldly to her father’s
house, and asked to see her.
	Miss Alison received her guest in the
stateliest and coolest manner compatible
with good breeding. It was quite evident
that poor John had offended deeply the
girl who held the first place in his affec-
tions. Being somewhat prepared for his
present reception from previous experience, 
he was not so abashed as one would ex-
pect and being also courageous in many
ways, he at once plunged headlong into 
the subject which had brought him there.
	“Grace,” he said eagerly, “I am
ashamed of my conduct on the Fourth. I
know I have offended you, and have come 
to ask your pardon.”
	“And if I grant it,” she said, in a cool,
even tone, made so by a great effort,
“What guarantee have I that the same
thing will not be re-enacted on the very
next holiday. You have been ashamed so
many times John Heplar, have offended
and been forgiven so often, that it is like the 
rehearsal of an oft-repeated play, and
amounts to about the same result—
nothing.”
	“You are hard on a fellow,” he mutter- 
ed, “I own I acted foolishly, but I did no
harm, unless to myself.” 
	“No harm,” exclaimed the girl, “do
you consider it is no harm to associate with
those who profane the name of their
Maker; who make demons of that 
which should be second only to the angels;
who break the hearts of their parents, their
sisters and wives; and above all, who set
such a perilous example for my little
brother to follow? For shame, John Hep-
lar.”
	He sat looking at her stupidly as she
poured out this torrent of hot words. It
was an unusual thing for Grace Alison to
express herself so forcibly, being noted for
her equable temper, and the event seemed 
to daze him. When she had finished he
answered quietly.
	“Well Grace, I grant there is truth in
what you say, especially the example part, 
though I own I have never thought of it in 
that light before. I remember I promised
you to forsake my old companions, and I 
have not done so. In relation to the other
matter, I have not been able to see through
it, as you predicted. I have tried your 
plan faithfully, and must say that I am as
much in the dark as ever. You and I
might just as well give up that scheme, 
and try to be happy without so much re-
ligion thrown in."
	“Do you mean to say,” said Grace,
slowly and with an effort, “that you have
thrown aside all hope of being able to see
and embrace the faith of your father and
mother—of your staunch—faithful—father,
and your brave—devoted mother?”
	“I am sorry to say that is my lamentable
condition,” he replied sadly.
	“Then John Heplar,” and her voice
trembled a little, and a mist obscured her
sight, “We may just as well say good bye


[Column 1]
also to our hopes and wishes regarding
each other. You know my belief, and I
cannot—dare not, act contrary to my con-
victions.”
	“Grace, dear Grace, why will you
cleave to these deluded notions? Why in-
sist on making yourself and me unhappy
from a mere whim?”
	“Whim! I hope and pray that you
may some day know the value and force of
the whims which now separate us. Until
that time comes, John Heplar, I will say
goodbye, and when we meet hereafter it
will be as acquaintances only, or as strang-
ers, as you please.”
	Before he could realize it, she fled from the
room and he was left alone. Only as he
left the house did he begin to realize the
depth of the gulf between himself and his
love. Yet even while he cursed the luck
which had prompted him to broach the ill-
fated subject of their marriage to Grace
while in her unusual temper, he was not
without hope of relenting on her part.
Heretofore she had been so kind and chari-
table, even chiding him for his short-
comings in a manner not the least objec-
tionable to him, that he could not believe
she would long hold out in her present
resolution. He was not much of a student
of humankind, and had not yet learned
that the mildest external appearance may
cover a nature deep and determined, especi-
ally when based upon convictions of right.
	John Heplar was of a peculiar disposi-
tion. He had many odd ways for one so
young. Prominent among these was a
habit of talking to himself. What other
people merely thought, he generally spoke
aloud. A rather promising sign, you will
think, indicating an openness of character
incompatible with hypocrisy or deceit. Well
we will see.
	As he walked along the lonely highway,
absorbed in his troubles, he might have
met his dearest friend without any sign of
recognition. He looked straight before
him, at nothing in particular, and thus
soliloquized:
	“Well I’ve done it now, or that’s what
it looks like! I wonder if I ever can get
myself straightened out in her opinion.
May be she’ll get over it if I try to behave
myself in the future.”—Then after a pause,
his feelings change.
	“I wish somebody would tell me why it
is so many good fathers and mothers have
such beastly children. Look at me now,
for instance,” addressing an imaginary
personage beyond the horizon, “my father
and mother walked a thousand miles over
the rough prairies, and toted me along into
the bargain, all for the sake of their
religion. They left good homes and sur-
roundings to come out to this God-forsaken
region, because they thought they ought 
to. To me the religion and the country
has always been detestable. They won’t
even drink tea and coffee because they
think its all wrong, while to me everything
that is forbidden in their code, is just what
most desire.”
	His ruminations were here cut short by
the weight of a hand on his shoulder and a
cheery voice in his ear. He turned quick-
ly with an exclamation of surprise and a
frown on his brow, which changed to the
ghost of a smile when he discovered who it
was.
	“Why, Brother Harper, how you start-
led me.”
	“No wonder, you were in such a brown

[Column 2]
study there was no awakening you except
by extreme measures. But tell me my
boy, what is your trouble? I could not
get by you, so have heard what you have
been telling yourself, for which I ask
pardon.”
	“I will, and may be you can help me to
straighten myself out. I always liked
you; you don’t seem so down on boys like
me as—the bishop—and some others.”
	“I have a little more patience perhaps
having been a sort of ruffian myself in my
young days, but believe me, none has the
interest of the boys more at heart than the
Bishop.”
	“Well may be so, but any how, I feel
more free to talk with you. You see, Brother
Harper, I’m made of wild stuff somehow.
I want to be good and I try as hard as I
can, but once in a while the old nick in me
will come out, and then I get on a tear,
and the dickens is to pay generally.”
	“And you want to know why it is that
the good people in our Church so often
have wild tares in their harvest of children?
Well, I’ll tell you what I think about it,
Brother Heplar. You see these are the
Last Days, that we read so much about in
the Scriptures. Satan is alive to the fact
that his kingdom is tottering to its fall,
that he is on his last legs, in fact, and you
may be assured that he is putting in good
time trying to frustrate the plans of Jesus
Christ, whom he hates. That is his busi-
ness, he is merely paying strict attention
to it, so I don’t know as he is so much to
blame after all. If we would profit by his
example in that, it might be better for us.
Well, you see, he has tried it again and
again on the fathers and mothers. They
have withstood every attack, so he has
turned his attention to the children, who
are not so well grounded in the faith, there-
fore more liable to be deceived. And the
more promising the child, the more deter-
mined are his efforts to conquer him. Oh,
my dear boy, were the veil taken from be-
fore our eyes, we would be appalled by
what is in the unseen world around us.”
	“I believe what you say, Brother Har-
per, for I have felt these influences. But
what can a fellow do? If he has no natur-
al goodness, but is purely mean and con-
temptible, how can he fight against nature
and the influences too?”
	“If he relies upon his own strength, he
will certainly fail. Satan fears no man on
earth, in and of himself. Happily for us
we are in possession of something by which
he can be controlled.”
	“And that is—”
	“ There are three things which he can-
not withstand, God the Father, His Son,
Jesus Christ, and the Holy Priesthood.
This latter we have with us, and if we
honor it, it is our safeguard from the attacks
of evil. Probably I have lectured you
long enough, but I want to give you a
word of advice. If you really want to do
better, and be a good and useful man, go
and ask the Lord to help you. You will
not be disappointed in Him.”
	“That was Grace’s counsel and I have
tried, but Brother Harper, I guess I am
too wicked, for I hav’nt felt any change.”
	“Tut, tut, boy, remember that though
our sins be as scarlet, yet they are made
white in the blood of the Lamb. Try
again my boy, and don’t give up trying; it
will all come right in the end. Goodbye,
and if I can do anything for you at any
time don’t be afraid to ask.” 	And with a

[Column 3]
hearty hand shake the Bishop’s first
Counselor turned in at his own gate.
(Continued.)


WOMAN S EXPONENT


