[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: TWO PLEASANT PARTIES. | Author: Unknown]

TWO PLEASANT PARTIES.

	JUNIUS F. WELLS and wife gave a very
pleasant birthday party on the evening of
June 1, to members of the family; unfor-
tunately all could not be present but nearly
all those residing in the city came,
some were absent from unavoidable causes.
Mrs. Wells’ rooms were decorated almost
exclusively with carnations many of them
scarlet, which gave a beautiful tone of
color to the parlors and other apartments.
In fact the house is furnished with the
most exquisite taste, and as the writer is
very fond of color, these simple decorations
add to the pleasure of a social evening.
	There was also some fine selections on
the piano by Mrs. Wells, who in addition
to being a model housekeeper is an excel-
lent musician, and knows how much music
adds to any feast however inviting its viands,
and in this instance the supper was deli-
cious.
	It was not exactly a woman’s, party as
there were several gentlemen present, and
the arrival of the Governor, Heber M.
Wells, who was urged to say a few words
on the occasion and consented to speak
briefly, though he had just come from mak-
ing a public speech; the speech of the eve-
ning was made by Junius F. Wells, who
alluded most affectionately to his father,
the late Gen. D. H. Wells, and expressed a
desire to see the family come together often
and keep up the same affectionate relations
as existed in his father’s lifetime.
	Every one who helps to promote this
spirit of harmony of ideas and good feeling
is adding to the happiness of the whole and
it is certainly commendable. There is
nothing more pleasing in life than the inti-
mate relation and friendly intercourse of a
large family who cherish a fondness for
each other, who naturally as they grow
older drift away from each other after mar-
riage, or perhaps through business enter-
prises and in striving for the maintenance

[Column 2]
and education of their own immediate
family.

	Mrs. Annie S. Wells gave a delightful
party on Friday afternoon June 18, at her
pretty cottage in the 20th Ward of this
city. The rooms were fragrant with roses
and carnations of which the decorations
largely consisted, roses of many varieties
and artistically arranged. The conversa-
tion was cheerful and entertaining as it
generally is when so many charming wo-
men come together socially. Besides her
several Wells’ aunties, there were a num-
ber of the Wells family married and un-
married, Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, Mrs.
Frances Wells, Mrs. Abbie Young, Miss
Kate Wells, Mrs. Helena Wells, Mrs. Joseph-
ine Wells, Mrs. May W. Whitney, Miss
Emeline Wells, Mrs. Emily W Grant,
Mrs. Annette W. Culmer, Miss Lyde Wells,
Mrs. Annie W. Cannon, Mrs. Clara W.
Hedges, Mrs. Lillie Y. Wells, Mrs. Susie
R. Wells, Mrs. Edna W. Sloan. It was a
very happy afternoon, taking all in all
though some were absent on account of
illness that would have made the company
more complete, and it would have been
more gratifying. The repast was very
delicious and served on little tables in the
parlors, assisted by some dainty little girls
in white, Dessie Grant and Alice Wells
who were very polite and attentive to the
guests and made every one feel at home.
	The hostess may be assured that all
went away with the impression that she
knew just how to make visitors enjoy
themselves. These family parties are a
delightful social feature and promote union
and love in the family, than which there
can be nothing more desirable among those
connected by the ties of kindred.


