9 "Preserve, Protect, and Defend"' Elder Levi Edgar Young of the First Council of the Seventy INCE the day that George Washington became the chief executive of our Government, every President of the United States has been required by the Constitution to take the following oath on the Bible: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States." To the American people, this inauguration is sacred, for in a very real sense, it is also their inaugural. They share as no other people in the headship of the State. American democracy has developed a peculiarly close bond between the people and the Presidency, and this means that every American citizen, every family to the youngest child, has a responsibility to "Preserve, Protect, and Defend" the most sacred civic and political document ever given to mankind. The word "democracy" enters into the very life of the laws of our Nation, and is vested with sacred ae. It has to do with the "individual." The theme of American democracy deals with individuals. It recognizes that all individuals have the right to develop their individualities. We have the duties, therefore, of self-discipline, which in a democracy means the deepest respect and reverence for other people and their rights. This principle of righteousness is possibly the hardest to live in man's present state of mind and spiritual make-up. Yet, it is the most important of all our ethical principles. It is the core of the Declaration of Independence and the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of the United States, and its seed lies in the Golden Rule. Every individual must have motives that fall within the spirit of high regard for one another. This means the acceptance of each other's good faith. We have to rid ourselves of those suspicions which in our. Hearts breed fear and hate, jealousy and envy. We must come to understand people, and to feel the glow of good will, and the power to think gratefully of our fresh opportunities to do better. It means to avoid the pitfalls of the many evils that beset society today. Faith in God is always expressed in right action. To live in and maintain our Democratic Government becomes a Page 585 586 religious duty of deepest significance. I am writing this article within a few feet of Plymouth Rock, where one can sit quietly by the hour and think of one's country, our America. I recall the little. Party who sailed across the Atlantic some three hundred years ago in a little cockleshell boat, named the Mayflower. They left their homes, kindred, and country for the sake of finding homes in the New World where they could be free to worship God as they wished. They turned their backs on the Old World forever. From those days to the present, the AngloSaxons coming to these shores have kept in mind the purposes of their forebears. The principles of government which the Pilgrims and the Puritans brought, entered into the very fabric of our Government when it was organized. The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution were the expressions of human liberty which had been growing in the hearts of Englishmen from ancient times, and by the inspiration and help of God, this Republic of the United States was an event ordered of God for the bringing into being a nobler government than the world had ever known before. The treasures of the new continent were made to serve the cause of freedom beyond any dream that the founders ever had. This continent had been concealed until the right men, rightly trained, could build their homes in the wilderness and hold the ground for a purpose larger than they knew. Government was founded in religion, and though religion did not become a part of the political 

 

 system of the Government, it was virtually incorporated into the lives and thoughts of the people. All the Christian sects of Europe found asylum in America before the Revolutionary War. We speak of America as a "Land of Liberty." But we must not forget that the Bible was the charter of liberties for our fathers. The Pilgrim fathers looked upon the Bible as the most precious piece of cargo on board the Mayflower. What a thrilling story this settlement of America was — the Pilgrims and Puritans in New England; Episcopalians in Virginia, Maryland, and New York; Quakers and Moravians and Lutherans and Mennonites in Pennsylvania; Roman Catholics under Lord Balltimore in Maryland; and Baptists in Rhode Island. Differing greatly in language and race, they were one in a common desire to establish on this continent a commonwealth in which every man had direct access to the Bible, to learn from it for himself the will of God. These forces of religious convictions are what brought about the first article in the Bill of Rights of the Constitution, and to this day, America has given its citizens the right to worship God according to the dictates of their consciences. On January 9 of this year, William H. Wills was inaugurated Govyernor of Vermont, and in his inaugural address he urged a spiritual reconstruction of the people as a prerequisite to the economic and moral salvation of the Nation. "We have meetings and discussions on economic subjects," he said, "but the citizens of Vermont are not giving adequate attention to the spiritual needs of the individual "PRESERVE, PROTECT, AND DEFEND" and the State as a whole. We comment on the breakdown of morals, both within the State and the Nation, but fail to recognize the fact that it may be due, and in my opinion is due in large measure, to the spiritual indifference of our citizens. "We comment frequently on the prosperity of a bygone age, but seldom in our passing comments do we connect the two thoughts that the people of yesterday were pious and devout in the matter of their religious beliefs and practices. We as individuals would do well within our respective communities to join with others in serious study, analysis and action toward reviving interest and stimulating activity in the realm of our spiritual needs. If America is to be saved, each individual must first put his own house in order. The Ten Commandments cannot be improved upon, nor can the Sermon on the Mount be surpassed as a guide for ethical conduct." What our country needs is a spiritual awakening. It will not be the thousands of rifles made, nor the fifty thousand planes that are being manufactured, but the knowledge that God rules in the affairs of men if we will but let Him. We need more respect for the ancient truths, and the lessons of history, and the word of God. While we must keep our spirits in tune with the progress of the age, we must realize that in all the past, prophets, sages, and seers have given us standards of character that made men indignant at corruption and fearfully angry over injustice and wrong. Ages ago, the Greek, Epictitus, wrote: "You will confer the greatest benefit upon vour city, not by raising the roofs, but by exalting the souls of your 587 fellow citizens." What we need more than anything else in order to '"Preserve, Protect and Defend," is to return to the faith of our fathers, to the teachings of Holy Writ, and the impulse in all crises to turn to God in humility; a reconstruction of moral fiber and personal courage to a point that brings about a restoration of the principles of Christ to their place of first importance. All thinking Americans believe that the heart of religion must come back to the people and to the world, for in America the spirit of a free people is more firmly established and entrenched in consciousness than in any other country on the globe. While it is true that many influences are undermining our political and civic idealism, deep down in the American heart is the respect and the love for the constitutional background upon which our Government must function. We must watch our battlements, for there is a battle on, not so much with guns and planes as with the forces within which are trying to instill in the hearts of men a disregard for the established constitutional law of the land; to belittle justice and to defame the dispensers of law and order, and to lead the people to a complete abolition of constitutional restrictions. There are many ideals that we Americans must keep ever in our minds and hearts. One is the teaching of William Penn, when he said: "Governments like clocks go from the motion men give them; and as governments are made moved by men, so by them they are ruined, too. Wherefore, governments rather depend upon men, than men upon governments. Let men be good and the government cannot be bad; if it be ill, they will cure it. But if men be bad, let the government be ever so good, they will endeavor to warp and spoil it to their turn. 'That which makes a good constitution, must keep it, viz: men of wisdom and virtue, qualities that, because they descend not with worldly in-. Heritances, must be propagated by a virtuous education of youth." High in idealism, high in interpretation of what the law is in spirit, are the inscriptions given on the pediments in front of the Supreme Court Building at Washington, D. C. On the west pediment are the words: "EQUAL JUSTICE UNDER LAW," and on the east pediment "JUSTICE THE GUARDIAN OF LIBERTY." "Justice," said Justinian, "is the firm and continuous desire to render to everyone that which is his due." Because this ideal is enshrined and a daily effort made to practice it, the whole Federal Government gains strength; and life and liberty for the individual are more secure. THE American people will "Preserve, Protect, and Defend" the Constitution of the United States as they live for it. It is a patriotic duty which 140,000,000 people may undertake along with the President of the United States. The youth of the land must be touched with the higher issues of life, and they will be if we will bring them to the - truth of Christ by a teaching of the reality and beauty of the Christian life. While the Gospel is a message of eternal and divine truth and goodness, it is also a message of beauty. Without beauty, truth and goodness lack the transfiguration which makes them truly attractive. We have all rejoiced that God has spoken in ancient times in ways so marvelous and beautiful. The prophecies of the Old Law and the parables of the New are clothed in a beauty unrivaled. The writers of old saw and preserved the interdependence of truth, goodness, and beauty. When youth is stirred as youth can be -to the depths of their naturally truthful souls, they will take the lead in "Preserving, Protecting, and Defending" all that is good and noble. There is one other thing I should like to add before closing. It is in reference to the immigrants to our shores. In all the world's history no nation has thrown its gates so. Wide open to welcome into citizenship the peoples of other lands as has the United States; nor has any nation received such gifts as have come to us from the homelands of Europe. The main roots of our civilization are buried in the Old World soil of Europe, and American culture is a combination of European tradition and American environment. In Americanizing our immigrants, we must not overlook their best elements of character, but we must touch their souls with what is best in religion, political life, and morals. This we can do; this we must do. A 

 —SEPTEMBER, 1941