(See "Notes to the Field," page 612.) ye Nission Lessons Latter-day Saint Hymns (For optional use of missions in lieu of Literature) Lesson 3 (Tuesday, December 16, 1941) THE SPIRIT OF GOD LIKE A FIRE The Spirit of God like a fire is burning! The latter-day glory begins to come forth; The visions and blessings of old are returning, And angels are coming to visit the earth. CuHorus We'll sing and we'll shout with the armies of heaven, Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb! Let glory to them in the highest be given, Henceforth and forever; amen, and amen! The Lord is extending the Saints' understanding, Restoring their judges and all as at first. The knowledge and power of God are expanding, The veil o'er the earth is beginning to burst. We'll call in our solemn assemblies in spirit, To spread forth the kingdom of heaven abroad. That we through our faith may begin to inherit The visions and blessings and glories of God. How blessed the day when the lamb and the lion Shall lie down together without any ire, And Ephraim be crowned with his blessing in Zion, As Jesus descends with His chariot of fire! ?William W. Phelps AFTER the idea of God and our First, we believe in God, in Christ relation to him, comes the idea as our Savior, and in the "plan of that the Holy Ghost may be given life and salvation"; second, we reto us to guide and comfort and enpent of all our sins, with a determinalighten us in this "vale of tears." tion to refrain from further sin to Page 649 650 the full extent of our ability; third, we are baptized by immersion for the remission of sins. 'Then we are ready for someone holding the proper authority to lay hands on our head to impart to us the "gift of the Holy Ghost." WILLIAM Wines Phelps, like the two poets we have already considered, was of old American stock. Born in New Jersey, on February 17, 1792, he went in his youth to what was then the western part of New York. He seems to have had a good education, though how or where he received it, we do not know. In western New York he was favored by fortune. When we fist 'learn of him there, he was the owner and editor of a partisan newspaper, which also did job printing. We do not know to which political party William Phelps belonged, but we do know that he was regarded highly enough by his party as to be seriously considered for the office of lieutenant governor of the state. It was here that he first heard of Mormonism, although he did not embrace it till after the Saints had gone to Kirtland, Ohio. In December, 1830, he and Sidney Rigdon had a ten-hours' conversation about the new Church. Elder Rigdon was then on a visit to Palmyra, to see and talk with the Prophet. In this interview Sidney Rigdon told William Phelps, "I know that this religion is true by the power of the Holy Ghost." William Phelps later visited the Hill Cumorah, talked with the Prophet, and examined all the evidences of the divinity of the Prophet's mission. On the removal of Joseph Smith to Ohio, Mr. Phelps hastened after him and was baptized. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 The chorus of this hymn is a kind of shout and song. It comes as an expression of feeling and gratitude One of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants was given to Elder Phelps through the Prophet. It is Section 55. In it he was told that he was "chosen" as well as "called." This was given before he was baptized. He was promised that "on whomsoever" he should lay his hands, if they were contrite, he should "have the power to give the Holy Ghost." Later he was sent to Missouri, to set up and to edit the Evening and Morning Star, the first Church periodical. Later still, in both Missouri and I]linois, he served as the Prophet's secretary. He died in Salt Lake City in 1872, very greatly honored, after an active and devoted life. It is as a poet, however, that we are here concerned with William W. Phelps. His poetry consists of short poems, many of which have been set to music. Among those whose compositions are included in our Latter-day Saint hymn_ book, William W. Phelps comes second in number of contributions, there being exactly thirty of his compositions published in that volume. Some of his hymns are among the best in the language, and all of them are in the spirit of the New Dispensation. "The Spirit of God Like a Fire" was composed in time to be included in Emma Smith's collection of hymns, a task to which she had been assigned by revelation. (See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 25.) In this collection, published in 1835, there were twenty-six of William Phelps' compositions, as compared with five by Parley P. Pratt and two by Eliza R. Snow. LESSON DEPARTMENT The book came out about a year before the dedication of the Kirtland Temple. Upon that occasion, the hymn we are now considering was sung impressively. The Kirtland Temple, the first of its kind in this dispensation, was a notable building in more than one respect. 'I'he Saints were comparatively few in number, and there was much opposition to them in and around Kirtland. But they persevered until on March 27, 1836, the Temple was dedicated. The building cost about $75, coo?a large sum for that time. A special revelation (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109) contains the prayer that was offered in dedication on that occasion. N the first stanza of "The Spirit of God Like a Fire," we have again an expression of the Restoration. "Latter-day glory," "visions and blessings" like those of the olden time, "angels visiting the earth'? these are marks of the new Church. The phrase "like a fire is burning" recalls the burning bush of Moses (Exodus, Chapter 3), and the statement of the Prophet Joseph Smith that God "dwells in everlasting burnings." Always, so far as we know, heavenly beings appear to men in great light. ?This was the case when the Prophet saw the Father and the Son in the woods on his father's farm and when the Angel Moroni came to him in that _ attic room in the Smith home three and one-half years later. "Above the brightness of the sun" and "lighter than at noonday" are the phrases the Prophet uses to describe this light. The chorus of this hymn is a kind of shout and song. It comes as an expression of feeling and gratitude 651 that the former blessings have been revived: "Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb!" "Let glory to them in the highest be given.... Henceforth and forever...! " As a result of the visions and glory, the second stanza tells us, the understanding of those who have accepted the new movement in teligion is "extending." Moreover, the knowledge of God and his power are "expanding" accordingly, and the "veil" of darkness "is beginning to burst." Note the phrase, "is beginning." 'The full flood of light has not yet come. Having received these great blessings and this knowledge, it is our duty now, we are informed in the third stanza, to "spread forth the kingdom of heaven abroad." This will be one means by which we may "inherit, through faith," the promises which the Lord has made to the faithful. For all mankind must be both warned and taught?warned of the "judgments" to come if they do not work righteousness, and taught the way to "inherit" the celestial world. As a matter of fact, upon the Latter-day Saints has been placed the same responsibility that the former-day Saints had of preaching the Gospel to "every creature." From the Restoration ideas, visions, and glories, the hymn goes, in the last stanza, to the millennial reign of Christ, when "the lamb and the lion shall lie down together without any ire." We are assured in the revelations given to our Prophet that when the proper time comes Christ "will reveal himself from heaven with power and great glory, with all the hosts thereof, and dwell in righteousness with men on earth a thousand years, and the wicked shall not stand." (See Doc- 652 trine and Covenants, Section 20, verse 11.) Theologically, then, this hymn tells us that a certain set of old things have been restored, as a result of which we know more than we did, and that it is incumbent upon us to proclaim these truths to the world, preparatory to the millennial reign of Christ. While these ideas are clearly given, at the same time the poem is full of feeling ?- gratitude, praise, zeal, and yearning. It is, on the whole, a stirring hymn, and when sung by a large choir or a congregation of believers it is very moving. At the organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842, "the meeting was opened by singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning.' " 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 Questions 1. Select the lines in this hymn that you like best and memorize them. Can you memorize the entire hymn? 2. Give some details of the life of William W. Phelps. What kind of man do you think he was? Are there any traits of his character that stand out either in the brief sketch of him given in this lesson or in this poem? If so, what are these? 3. What visions do you think the poet had in mind in the first stanza? Tell these in detail. (Some more visions were received in the Kirtland Temple. See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110.) 4. How was it that the understanding of the Saints was "extended"? "expanded''? What, for instance, do we know about God that we did not know before? (Study the "First Vision."') 5. What "blessings" were enjoyed by the Saints of old that are also enjoyed in our Church? % Home Accident Prevention (Continued from page 595) X. Lightning Precautions All buildings should be protected with lightning rods properly grounded and installed. Ground fence wires. XI. Spontaneous Combustion Have a covered metal can for the storage of oil rags, mops and polishing cloths. Burn paint and turpentine rags. Inflammable Fluid for Fuel; Dry Cleaning Never use or uncover gasoline in a room with an open fire or flame. XII. Never use gasoline or kerosene to start or quicken a fire. Filling a gasoline or kerosene stove while flame is lighted is positively dangerous. Never use gasoline for dry cleaning. XIII. Protection from Scalds and Burns Caused by Hot Water and Hot Fat Topstove utensils should have broad flat bas?s; handles should be turned inward to prevent utensils being overturned or reached by children. Be careful of the hot fat in deep-fat frying.. A Garden Mlasquerade (Continued from page 619) we could raise enough money to hire Mr. Fulton to do the remodeling and painting that our civic center will require?" Emily was speechless with happiness at having her dream come true. She could only nod her assent. "Another thing, Emily," and Mrs.: Gates actually said it a bit wistfully, "'won't you just call me Sarah?" Temple and Burial Clothing Temple Clothing For Men and Women Burial Clothing for Men, Women and Children FINEST MATERIALS EXPERT WORKMANSHIP QUICK SERVICE REASONABLE PRICES ? EXPRESS AND POSTAL CHARGES PREPAID RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD MORMON HANDICRAFT Gift Shop... Rare Hand-Made Gifts Quality Only Hands Can Produce GENUINE WATER-COLOR PICTURES?APRONS THAT ARE DIFFERENT ?HAND-HAMMERED COPPER?UNIQUE PIONEER DOLLS?HAND-KNIT SWEATERS?BEAUTIFUL QUILTS?RUGS, AND MANY OTHER LOVELY GIFTS Sponsored by RELIEF SOCIETY  , UTAH PERMIT No. 690 SERVE Fisher' s BIG DUTCH LOAF FO GREATER Hot Weather Mealtime Enjoyment Have you tried Fisher's Delicious Mayflower Donuts yet? Today we walk by faith Tomorrow we walk by knowledge + LARKIN MORTUARIES Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-9126