RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 Florence J. Madsen Editor - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman 
The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28 SEPTEMBER, 1941 No. 9 Writers Round-up MONG the many groups designed to promote culture and advance creative arts throughout the country are the organized writers' groups. These groups are subscribed to by the leading artists in all fields of writing as well as by the novice. Their activities are reflected in increased numbers of gifted persons entering the writing field and also in improved writing technique. Among these groups is the League of Utah Writers. This organization is to be commended upon its activities in the interest of stimulating, improving, and marketing the work of local writers. The Writers' Round-up, held in Salt Lake City, August 9-10, under the direction of the Salt Lake Chapter of the League, was both stimulating and encouraging. 'The Round-up is an annual affair conducted by the various chapters of the League, and is an outgrowth of an activity originally sponsored and directed by the late Harrison R. Merrill, a gifted Utah writer himself and a generous and devoted friend of creative writers. Appearing on the Round-up program each year are writers of note in all fields?quality and pulp writers, prose-article writers, newspaper writers, poets, et cetera. Writers' problems in general are discussed, and guidance in their solution is given. Wave interests in reading as well as suitable markets are carefully considered. An interesting feature of the Round-up each year is the Poets' Breakfast. For the past two years a poetry contest has been conducted in connection with the Round-up.

Prizes have been awarded, and prizewinning poems have been read by their authors at the Breakfast. The large number of local poets as. Well as their interest in this feature is indicated by the fact that more than 300 poems were entered in this year's contest. The general quality of poems submitted was above average. Prizes were awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard for her poem "Biography," Claire Stewart Boyer for "Zenith," and Martha Ross Stewart for "Sibyl." Judges in the contest were Dr. Sherman Brown Page 609 610 Neff of the University of Utah department of English, Dr. Carlton Culmsee of the Brigham Young University department of English, and Belle S. Spafford, editor of the Relief Society Magazine. That the local writers appreciate and benefit from the annual Roundup program is evidenced. By the large and constantly increasing attendance. Of special interest is the preponderance of women in attendance. At the meetings held this year, women outnumbered men by at least ten to one. When we review the writers of the past, such names as Shakespeare, Shelley, Keats, Thackeray, Chaucer, Pope, and a score of others readily come to mind?names of men. We recall that Mary Ann Evans, one of the greatest novelists of the nineteenth century, chose the pen name of George Eliot because in her time women had not yet found a place in the professional world. The fact that women?women of teal creative genius whose work is marketable?were in the majority at 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 the Round-up is significant. It is indicative of the place of women in the present-day field of literature. If literature is the great preserver of culture and the interpreter and influencer of life, then we are justified in believing that the influence of women on the future will be pronounced. When the roll of honor of writers of the twentieth century is called, there is no doubt that the names of many women will be among the great. The era in which we live bids fair for women writers. The Relief Society has always encouraged creative work of all kinds ?music, art, handcrafts. Creative writing has been stressed. One of the purposes of the Relief Society Magazine is to encourage the literary aspirations of the women of the Church. The Relief Society General Board commends and endorses activities designed to promote and improve creative work and extends its best wishes to organizations striving to develop creative genius and to improve the quality of work done. Tabernacle Choir Sour cuss 17, more than 330 members of the Tabernacle Choir, accompanied by Church officials and friends, left Salt Lake City for California. Concerts were held in the Hollywood Bowl and in the San Francisco Civic Auditorium. 'Thousands of people were given opportunity to hear the famous singing organization of our Church. Conducting the Choir was J. Spencer Cornwall, director, assisted by Richard P. Condie, assistant conductor and soloist. Alexander Schreiner and Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organists, were the musical accompanists. Lester Hewlett, president of the Choir, made the tour with the group. For years, the Tabernacle Choir has been a source of great pride to Church members. Its music has elevated and inspired the Saints and has contributed to the spiritual tone of Church gatherings held in the great Tabernacle. Concerts conducted by the Choir have delighted thousands. The weekly broadcast from the Tabernacle has been a source of enjoyment to people throughout the Nation as'well as an excellent missionary activity. The Relief Society General Board commends the Choir upon its many achievements reflecting credit upon the Church.