Don't you think it would be nice if (Continued on page 652) Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. X Biographies N closing this series of articles, let us suggest a group of biographies. It is an opportune time to read the lives of eminent men and women. In all ages national crises have produced great leaders, and there is no more interesting subject than a study of the characteristics that made these leaders rise above the masses. Since the last world war, the most popular biographies have been realistic and sensational, flaunting before the reader all the indiscretions of their subjects, all of which has tended to break down regard for the ideal for which the character stood. After years of this sort of reading, people are beginning to feel "fed up" on realism. A true picture of a historic character without any effort at sensationalism is a welcome contribution. At this time, when war is uppermost in our minds and we are faced with the problem of demonstrating our patriotism for our country, we will find a delightful and well-written biography in the story of Florence Nightingale, by Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews, under the title, The Lost Commander. This story is delightful because of its refreshing style, and is well written because the author has lived up to the requirements of a good biography. The story of Florence Nightingale reads like fiction. It is full of adventure and romance, of conflict and, finally, of achievement. Born Page 620 into a family of wealth and social standing, she could look forward to love, marriage, children, and social prestige. But all these she renounced to follow the star that guided her destiny. When only six years of age, she said she believed she had a mission to fulfill. At eighteen, she refused her first opportunity to marry. At twenty-eight, she fell desperately in love, but again refused marriage because she had a strong feeling that some public service was before her. She says that throughout her life she saw during the night the eyes of her lover pleading. As you read of her life of sacrifice and hardships, you wonder if she didn't at times regret her decision. But there is never a suggestion of it in all her ninety years. Julia Ward Howe said of her when she had reached maturity, "She was elegant rather than beautiful, with the sweetest smile I ever saw." In her day, the profession of nursing was far from desirable. Only the lowest type of women were used as nurses. It was beyond belief that any self-respecting woman should enter the profession. But Florence Nightingale saw the tragedy of the situation, recognized the needs of her country, and, unlike most people, decided to do something about it. In spite of the objections of her family and friends, she gave up her life of ease and went into a little school of nursing in Germany, where SOME LITERARY FRIENDS she cooked, made beds, and scrubbed floors, until she had learned what there was to be learned about nursing. From that time on, life was not easy for Florence Nightingale. Her great struggle was against public opinion. Women took no part in public life. When she tried to organize units of nurses to go to the front in the Crimean War, she met with strong opposition. It was at this period of her life that she said, "It is so important for a woman to be a person." She had seen how piteously her nation had fallen down in caring for its wounded, and she never wavered in her determination to make it easier for the boys who were offering their lives for their country. What she accomplished when she was finally appointed to take charge of the wounded at the war front is almost unbelievable. Before a week had passed, after arriving at Scutari, she had organized her nurses into training classes, started a laundry, set up a diet kitchen, and a storehouse for supplies. 'The morale of the camp completely changed. The soldiers said, "Before she came, there was cussin' and swearin', but after her arrival it was holy as a church." Army officers were not used to women at the front. They were jealous, and when they ridiculed her, she lashed back at them with her caustic tongue. Only a person of strong character and unusual personality could have stood up against the onslaught of the army officers. Her unprecedented success may have been due to the fact that she was a nurse herself and worked as hard as those she was training. It is said that she at times passed eight tion to young people. 621 hours on her knees dressing wounds and comforting the dying men. Anesthetics were not much used in those days, and often she stood on her feet for twenty hours at a time giving courage to the boys who were undergoing operations. 'They worshipped her. Few bodies could stand up under the terrific strain that she endured during those months at the front. Her health broke, and she returned to England an invalid. But she never gave up. 'The rest of her long life she spent advancing her profession. From her invalid bed she organized a school in London which still bears her name ? unless it has fallen a prey to the ravages of the present war, All her life, Florence Nightingale worked for the welfare of her country, with never a thought of reward. Her people offered her burial in Westminster, but she refused, saying she preferred to be buried with her own family. The only inscription on her tombstone in an obscure village cemetery are the letters "F. N.?Born 1820. Died 1910." OR the men of the family, we suggest the biography of Daniel Webster by Claude M. Fuess, or any story of our own American patriots. The life of Daniel Webster demonstrates the truth that one can become almost a genius by developing ordinary qualities to an extraordinary degree. 'The attitude he developed toward life is an inspiraWhen he was sixty-five, he wrote: "The longer I live the more highly do I appreciate the importance of a proper observance of the Christian Sabbath." He said, too: "I do 622 not go to church to learn history, but to be reminded of my duty." While he was Secretary of State, he was asked by a friend what was the most important thought that ever occupied his mind. He answered: "The most important thought that ever occupied my mind was that of my individual responsibility ? to God." | ANOTHER fine biography is that of Frances E. Willard by Ray Strachey. | Frances E. Willard had neither money nor social position, but she Rose to the position of the first woman president of a college in America. During her life she continued to ask herself the questions: "What are you going to do in the world? What are you going to become?" Her answer was always: "Trust in the Lord and do good." She, too, met opposition and criticism. She even had untrue things said of her, but she answered it all by saying, "I despise their pigmy minds." % 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 Her biographer says she was as perfect as a human being could be. Her success may be due to the characteristic expressed by a friend when she said to her, "You have the hungriest soul I ever saw in a human being. It will never be satisfied." T is only in recent years that women have been granted equal rights with men. But from the beginning of time it has been women who have been the makers of history, for they have molded the characters of men. What we, as mothers, read to our children will be a great influence in determining what they will be. Let us read some things that will help them to meet the crises of life. We cannot face the present problem of seeing our boys give up so much that is dear to them to live the life of soldiers in the service of their country, unless we have learned that the principles for which this nation stands are more precious than life itself.