A Garden Masquerade Vaunee T. Larson EMILY BRANT was kneeling in the midst of her flower garden, pulling out the weeds among the brilliant blooms with quick, vigorous jerks. She often said that her flower garden was the only luxury permitted by T'om's salary as cashier at the local Fall City Bank. When Tom had brought her to this home as his bride, twenty years before, she had surveyed with dismay the rambling structure of a bygone architectural style. It had looked grim and forbidding to the radiant young bride. She knew they could not afford to remodel it; but flower seeds did not cost much, so in the first year of her married life she had begun to clothe their house and edge their Jawn with nature's bright garb. The succession of profuse and gorgeous blooms from early March until late November was incentive enough for 'Tom and the three boys ?Jim, seventeen, Allen, fifteen, and Gerry, eleven ? to keep the grass trimmed and the graveled garden paths in good shape. Emily enjoyed caring for her flowers, especially on such a sunny fall afternoon as this. She stopped her weeding and sat back on her heels as she saw her friend, Amy Adams, hurrying down the street. "How was the club meeting today, Amy?" she called. "You look tired. Come in and rest a few minutes, won't you?" Emily motioned toward the comfortable garden chairs. "That's just what I'd planned to do," Amy said, as she dropped wearily on the bench. "I wish you had been to the meeting today." "Well, Amy, you know how I feel about it. You know why I stay away. I was so disappointed when I found the club would not consider working on my idea to secure a Civic recreational center that I decided my garden needed me more than the club. I still think Fall City would be a much better place in which to live and_ rear our families if we had a_ recreational hall." She broke off quickly, "Forgive me, Amy, for dwelling on that old disappointment. Won't you slip off your hat and_ gloves while I run inside?I won't be a minute?and get some lemonade. There's a pitcherful just waiting to be brought out." Amy relaxed in the cool shade of the garden. When Emily returned with the tray, Amy started the conversation abruptly. "Where were Jim and Allen last night, Emily?" "Last night...?" Emily mused a moment. "Why, they went to the library. They said they were going to meet your John and study together." A sharp premonition possessed Emily. "Why do you ask, Amy? Wasn't John at the library, too?" "Yes, John was there. But after that, Emily, later..." (Even with upsetting news Amy enjoyed telling it dramatically.) "they all went out to Tony's Place." "Tony's Place?" Emily repeated it incredulously. Page 613 614 "Yes, that tavern out on the Ridge Road. It is patronized by a rather fast crowd." She went on hurriedly, "Mrs. Gates told us all about it this afternoon. She said she and Mr. Gates went out for a drive in the country last night. You know how the place is lit up at. Night. Well, on the way home she said they drove by slowly, and she saw our boys just leaving, and Ann Fulton, that new girl in town, was with them! She tried to make it all sound so terrible, and she called that Fulton girl trash." Emily's eyes were blazing. "Amy, if it's true our boys were there with the Fulton girl, Pl wager they had _ some good reason. Perhaps they went out there for a lark. It's natural and desirable for them to crave a lively time and the companionship of other boys and girls, and what does Fall City offer our youth? Nothing, absolutely nothing! Of course, I don't approve of the boys' going to Tony's Place, but the thing we have to do, Amy, is to safeguard them from making a habit of going there by offering them something better." The two women talked on about their problem, but they could find no answer to it. Emily advised Amy not to question John. "Until we can offer a solution, I'm sure it will only antagonize our boys to think we have suspicioned them of wrongdoing," she cautioned. Thar night at dinner it was an effort for Emily to be gay and cheerful. While Tom and the boys carried on a gay banter, her thoughts were busy elsewhere. Her sons were good boys, she knew. Yet how easy at their age to make a misstep. If 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 only there were some organized recreational project for young and old alike. She had worked hard to promote such a project, but had met with insurmountable hostility from Mrs. Gates, the club president, who had said that she would always actively oppose any plan which would include all the "trash" of the community. No help could be expected from Mr. Gates, who was the mayor as well as Tom Brant's employer. Everyone knew Mr. Gates was only the nominal head of his household. Perhaps if she went about it in an indirect way she might yet be successful.... Jim had noticed that his mother was very quiet during the meal. "Say, boys, let's do a good turn for Mother?shoo her off into the living room with Dad, and we'll clean up the kitchen as slick as a whistle." "Now that's what I call a capital idea,' Tom's voice boomed out. "Come on, Mother. After working in the garden as you did this afternoon, you're entitled to a quiet evening of rest." Emily did not tell him that it was not the garden work which made her feel so tired. Instead, she smiled gratefully as he pushed her gently into the large armchair, adjusted some pillows at her back, and brought a footstool for her feet. He continued: "Nearly everyone who comes into the bank remarks about the beauty of our flowers. They all say theirs stopped blooming weeks ago, and here our garden is as pretty as ever." "Yes, it is," Emily agreed. "Oh, Tom, I wish I could share the joy it has given me with everyone in this town." "Share the joy... " Emily A GARDEN MASQUERADE silently repeated to herself. Then, in a flash a plan was born in Emily's mind. She rose hastily with new vitality. "Tom," she said eagerly, "don't ask me questions now, but call up the Adamses immediately. Tell all three of them to come over as quickly as they can. Oh, yes, tell Amy to bring all her old magazines and some scissors." Tom looked at his wife intently. "Emily, are you sure you feel all right? No temperature?" "Of course I'm all right," his wife laughingly responded. "Sons," she called to the kitchen, "when you're through there you may get out the extra leaves for the dining-room table. We can all work around it." She silenced their questions with a wave of her hand. "Oh, we're going to have heaps of fun tonight!" She went on talking to herself, "Now, I must get plenty of scissors, paper, paste, old magazines, pen and ink." Tom and the boys quickly did their assigned tasks. Emily had transmitted her sudden enthusiasm to them, and they were eager for the "fun" to begin. They all answered the bell to let the Adamses in. Gerry was so aquiver with excitement he resembled his witehaired terrier. He reached the door first and flung it wide. "Emily, what on earth is all this about?" Amy burst into the hall. "Tom was so secretive over the phone. My two are loaded down with magazines." "That's fine! Take them right into the dining room." Emily ushered them into the room. "Now do explain what all this is 615 about, Emily.' Amy _ was_ plainly mystified. "Well, tonight Tom and I were talking about our garden, and all of a sudden I thought what fun it would be to have a masquerade garden party and invite everyone in town. These fall nights are warm enough for such an affair. If we get busy and make the invitations tonight, we can set the date for next week, That will give people plenty of time to select and make a costume. How about it?" Emily's idea won an instant and overwhelming approval, especially from the boys. Emily caught Amy's glance, and said to her quietly, "If it all works out the way I hope it does...." She did not finish her sentence, but Amy knew that somehow Emily's hope for a recreational center lay in the success of the garden patty. With the advice and contributions from each one of the happy group, a creditable yet simple invitation evolved. With colored pictures of flowers pasted on it, the invitation read, Come one?come all, Come to Brants' garden For a masquerade ball! In one corner, the date and time were neatly printed. By eleven o'clock over one hundred invitations were piled on the table, while a tired group surveyed them. "Yes, there's just enough," Emily was saying, "for each family in town." "Mother, do you have one for the Fultons?" Jim tried to ask the question casually. "Why, no, I don't believe we do. 616 Here's an extra one, though, that you may address to them." "I'd like to take it to school to Ann. Her desk is next to mine in the study hall. The Fultons are just new people here and still live out in that trailer camp at the edge of town. 'The mailman might not deliver mail out there." The adults could plainly see that Jim, who had always loudly claimed that girls were "unnecessary _afflictions," had at last found out that after all they might be nice companions. Wisely, they refrained from making any teasing remarks. "Well, we'll certainly see that the Fultons receive their invitation," Emily briskly asserted. "However, I think it will be much better if Amy and I just drive out to their trailer house tomorrow, leave the invitation and make a call on Mrs. Fulton at the same time. She's probably lonely if they are strangers here." "I guess that would be best," Jim agreed. Fifteen-year-old Allen did not have the reticence of his older brother. He importantly confided to the adults, "Last night we boys formed a bodyguard for Ann and were.... "Be still, Allen. They aren't interested in that," Jim spoke quickly. "Oh, but we are," Amy and Emily. Chorused together. Allen continued, "We were going to see that she got home safely. But her father was waiting for her, so we didn't have to after all." Jim decided a more thorough explanation was necessary. "You see, Ann has to earn money for her schoolbooks, so yesterday she got a job washing dishes at Tony's Place. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 She's going to work a couple of hours each night until she has saved enough. She told me Mr. Gates was urging her father to move on to some other place. He says there's enough unemployed families here now. But Ann says her father is an experienced painter and carpenter, and he's sure when people know him he'll have plenty of work." So that was the real truth of the affair. Amy and Emily exchanged looks of relief. "I would like to meet Ann," Emily said. "I'm sure she must be a very fine girl." "Oh, she is, Mother. She's just as nice as Patricia and Ruth Gates." When the Adams family left, they took the invitations with them. "It won't be any trouble at all for us to drive by the post office tonight. Then they'll be delivered in the early morning mail," Amy said. She laughed, "Can't you just picture the reception the Gates' invitation will get?" "Well, I hope they come," Emily said aside to Amy. "It might change their minds about my project." PRECISELY at nine o'clock the following morning, Mr. And Mrs. Gates were summoned to their morning meal by the tinkle of the breakfast bell. Martha, their maid who had been with them for years, stood, stiffly starched, beside the table to see that all was in perfect order. The mail was placed on a tray for Mrs. Gates; the morning paper was neatly folded for Mr. Gates. Ordinarily their breakfast progressed in silence, as their daughters ate earlier and then attended school. The atmosphere was not homey and chatty as in Emily's A GARDEN MASQUERADE home. Here a rigid formality was observed. Mrs. Gates looked through the small pile of letters?a few bills, an invitation to a luncheon, a wedding announcement. Experimentally, she ran her finger over the wedding announcement to see if it were' engraved or just an imitation. 'Then her attention was caught by a small envelope printed in a childish hand. That was queer. The address was to the "Gates' Household." Why that would include Martha, too! She adjusted her glasses to better see this unique card. "Mr. Gates.... I beg your pardon, dear, for interrupting you" (this formality of addressing her husband had always appealed to her sense of social rightness), "but would you kindly look at this." She handed the invitation to him and spoke with vexation. ""That's more of Emily Brant's work. She's angry with me for not putting our club support behind a project of hers to get a recreational center here, and this is her way of showing me up. I just know it is. Well, we won't accept the invitation, and if I have anything to say about it, not many more in town will either. A garden masquerade ball, indeed! Whoever heard of such a thing. I think you should get rid of Tom Brant, too. I'm sure you can find any number of men just as capable." Ordinarily Mr. Gates did not overrule his wife's opinions, but lately for some unfathomable reason he had been finding it more and more difficult to control his irritability at her dictatorial ways. "Now my dear Mrs. Gates, you have said quite enough. I, for one, 617 would like to go to this... This ball. You know it's a fact that we have no real friends in this town. Of course, we're 'in' everything just because I'm president of the bank and mayor of the town. Yet people never asked us in for a nice sociable evening. And as for Tom Brant, he's the best man I have in the bank. In fact, I've been considering a promotion for him lately. He's already earned it." His wife's look, more of surprise than anger at this display of masculine assertiveness, urged him on. "We'll go to that party, Mrs. Gates. Furthermore, Martha and the girls will attend also."; When her husband used that tone, Mrs. Gates knew it was time to back down with as much dignity as she could muster. "Very well, Mr. Gates, we shall go to the ball." The newspaper now had lost interest for him. Between bites of Martha's fluffy omelette, he queried, "What's that you were saying about a recreational center?" As Mrs. Gates told him of Emily's project, he listened attentively, but his only comment was, "Hum...." THAT afternoon at three o'clock, Mrs. Fulton was agreeably surprised and glad to receive her two visitors. She offered no apology for her humble trailer home. Indeed one was not necessary. It was clean, orderly and neat. What else could matter? Mrs. Fulton read the invitation with interest. "We'll be delighted to come to the party. I'm sure I can make some suitable costumes for us." Then her face clouded. "I'm afraid Ann will not be able to attend, though. She is working to earn her school money, and according to her figures here (Mrs. Fulton took a paper from the table), Friday night, the night of the party, is the last night she must work. Even then she will have to budget carefully in order to meet her expenses. She will be disappointed, too, as she does enjoy getting out with other young people. She misses social life in this town. I tell her perhaps it will be different when we can afford to move into a little home of our own. So many have the idea that those of us who are forced to live in trailer homes leave the niceties of life behind us." "We cari readily see that that is not true of you," Emily reassured her. "i have it solved, Mrs. Fulton," Emily spoke convincingly. "You say that Friday night is the last night Ann must work in order to complete her school fund? Well, have her arrange to quit her work on Thursday night. Then on Friday night she must come to the party and be my helper for the evening. It's essential that we have someone to take charge of the punch table. I will gladly pay her the amount she still needs for her school fund." It took some minutes of persua- ' sion on the part of Emily and Amy to get Mrs. Fulton's final consent, and they secured it only when they had assured her that in reality they needed Ann's help. Now that Jim so apparently admired this self-reliant young girl, Emily felt she must do all in her power to help Ann get a happy start in her life at Fall City. In arranging for Ann to attend the garden party, she had made a good beginning. She could rely on Jim to see that Ann was given other opportunities to meet young people. "TOM and Emily and their sons, with the help of the Adams family, were tireless in their efforts to see that the party was enjoyed by all. At one end of the lawn they had constructed a huge wooden dance platform. Gerry had requested the special privilege of playing and changing the records. By the light of the Chinese lanterns festooned in the branches above, the garden was a paradise where pirates and their belles, colonial gentlemen and their dames, all wearing small, 'black masks, had come to life nght out of the story books. The Fultons arrived early, so that Ann could get instructions on her evening's duties. She made a charming picture as a masked Dutch girl. Her yellow hair in two shoulder-length braids shone in the lantern light. Emily knew now it was not by accident that Jim had insisted on going as a Dutch water boy. Of course, if one looked closely enough, it was relatively easy to figure out just who was who, but all the group soon caught the spirit of the occasion and pretended no recognition whatsoever. Mrs. Gates couldn't deny, even to herself, that it thrilled her?yes, thrilled her? when Mr. Gates found her in the throng and, making a sweeping bow, whispered low, "Sarah" (that was her first name), "may I have the pleasure of the next dance?" "Yes, Walter," she whispered back. Tom finally halted the dancing and games and requested the guests 

 ?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 A GARDEN MASQUERADE to seat themselves in the folding chairs arranged around the lawn. "I know many of you are wondering just who your beautiful or terrifying neighbors may be. I suggest that you come to the platform, one by one, where it will be my pleasant duty to unmask you for the inspection of the others. 'Then you may proceed to the punch bowl." Amid laughter, the guests came forward and had their masks removed. As Mrs. Gates was unmasked, Emily noted her Puritan-lady costume was in keeping with her stern character. To Emily, the success of the party would not be assured until she had a chance to talk with Mr. Gates. He was apparently enjoying himself immensely. There he was now? the last one to appear. But when his mask was removed, he did not hurry off the stage as the others had done. He was raising his voice to say something to the crowd. Emily listened eagerly for his words. "Ladies and gentlemen, it has been brought to my attention by the enthusiastic response of the townspeople to this democratic get-together that what our little town needs and needs badly is a wellplanned and permanent recreational program. As mayor of Fall City, I hereby do announce to you townspeople that such a program is to be immediately initiated. I also publicly announce that I am willing to donate for such a project the vacant store building that I own, if that is agreeable to those of you here assembled. If we all work together, I'm sure we can...." His voice was drowned out by the thundering applause. Emily could at once picture club rooms to encourage hobbies for the boys and 619 girls, a gymnasium, and, maybe sometime, even a swimming pool. Now, there was no necessity for a "talk" with Mr. Gates. She _hastened forward to extend her thanks to him. As she approached him, he silenced the crowd once more. "There's another thing I want to publicly announce, this time in my capacity as president of the bank. Beginning tomorrow, Tom Brant is promoted to the position of manager of the bank. In the past, I assumed that job along with the presidency, but I believe from now on my time will be so much devoted to the civic good of this little community that I'm glad to put Tom Brant in the position he rightfully deserved long before this." Tom and Emily were much surprised by the announcement. They were given a rousing cheer. As they turned to thank their employer, Emily overheard Patricia Gates saying to her mother, "I want you to be sure and meet Ann Fulton, Mother, before we leave. I like her very much. She's good in Latin, too, and has promised to help tutor me." Events had taken such a surprising turn that Emily heard, without astonishment, Mrs. Gates reply, "Yes, I'm sure she is a lovely girl. I've been talking with her mother and father. They are very intelligent and have some splendid ideas." Then she saw Emily. "Oh, Emily, this has been a grand party! I was just thinking that if you'd only start - coming to club meetings, perhaps we could do as you suggested?all work together on this project and really do something worthwhile.