% Uisiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 3 Fast Day Observance as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, December 2, 1941) JN our Church one day in each month, usually the first Sunday, has been set aside as a day of fasting and prayer. On that day each member who is able to do so is expected to give the ward bishop contributions equaling the value of the two meals not eaten. The fast offerings are used for the care of those in need. Fasting is an equitable law, because it is based on the ability to give. Everyone eats, however little, and it is not to his injury financially to give the cost of what he might otherwise have eaten. Those who observe this law are compensated physically and spiritually. The interesting thing about this fast-day contribution is that no one is the poorer for the sum given, since he has saved the price of the two meals. Elder Joseph L. Wirthlin, member of the Presiding Bishopric, in speaking of the fast-offering plan, said, "It is a physical sacrifice for the receiving of a spiritual blessing. It places the body under subjection to the will of the Lord, establishes closer relationship between man and the Holy Ghost, which assures a high degree of spirituality and blessings so much needed in the world today.... By far the greatest spiritual blessing derived from the observance of this plan is the gift of testimony." There is a social advantage also in fasting. On fast day, one's attention is called to the unfortunate and the hungry, and thus he is put into a position where he can become "the good neighbor." Jesus. Said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, ye have done it unto me." (Matthew 25:40) Fasting appears a simple requirement, but by reason of obedience to 640 simple requirements, the Lord has wrought mighty benefits to his children. | Prayer should always accompany fasting. Fasting and prayer are a means of faith renewal; they bring peace to the soul. In this dispensation we are urged to fast, not with a sad countenance, but with a cheerful spirit. President Joseph F. Smith has said, "The Lord has instituted this law. It is simple and perfect, based on reason and intelligence, and 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 would not only prove a solution to the question of providing for the poor, but it would result in good to those who observed the law." The practices that the Lord institutes among his people are invariably for their good. Questions for Discussion 1. What are the purposes of the fast day? 2. Who should observe fast day? 3. What blessings are to be obtained from obedience to this law? 4. Read Matthew 4:1-11; II Kings 5; Doctrine and Covenants 88:76. WVork-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 3 Comparison of the Fibers Used in Materials ? (Tuesday, December 9, 1941) EACH fiber that is made into material has definite characteristics which make it valuable in some situations and not in others. The appearance may be altered in manufacturing, but each fiber has its own qualities, assets, and liabilities, so consumers should know what each is like, how it will perform, and which fiber is present in the material purchased. Our most common material, due to its versatility and cleaning propesties, is cotton, which is used alone and in combination with other fibers. We find it not only in the finest organdies and voiles, but in the heaviest of denim and canvas. We see it napped to resemble wool and mercerized to resemble silk. It may be spun and treated to resemble linen. Cotton lacks natural elasticity, so it wrinkles easily, but it can be readily cleaned. It is the only material that can be safely boiled and ironed with a hot iron. Weak alkalies and cold dilute bleaching agents are not detrimental. Cotton absorbs as much moisture as linen, but has a tendency to become fuzzy and to leave a lint unless made of long, combed fibers. It will take dyes that are fast to washing and sunlight. Its coolness makes it valuable for summer clothing. LINEN, a vegetable fiber, is not commonly used even though it has some qualities which surpass cotton. LESSON DEPARTMENT This is because the cost of linen material is high, due to the hand labor involved in the preparation of the fiber and the finishing process involved in the manufacture. This also makes the manufacture of linen cloth in the United States almost prohibitive. Linen wrinkles more readily than cotton, due to its lack of elasticity, but when cleaned and pressed it is very beautiful, especially in table damasks. Because the fiber is smooth, dirt and germs do not collect on it easily. 'Though easily laundered, it takes more care and is a bit more sensitive to bleaches than cotton. As our best conductor of heat, it makes the coolest of summer clothes. Because of its ability to quickly absorb and give off moisture and its freedom from lint, it is excellent for towels. THE silk fiber is an animal fiber secreted by the silk worm. Again, the high cost of labor prevents our producing silk in this country, and so it is generally purchased from Japan, China, and Italy in the form of reeled silk (unwound from the cocoon). Silk is a poor conductor of heat and very elastic, which is the reason it is warm and doesn't wrinkle. It absorbs perspiration and oil from the skin, but sheds dirt easily. Perspiration and strong light as well as alkalies are harmful to silk. This makes it require special care both in wearing and laundering. Because of its natural, deep luster, silk is luxurious in appearance, and if pure and unweighted, it will last for years. Overweighting and metallic salts will weaken the tensile strength, decrease elasticity, and encourage quick deterioration from sunlight and perspiration. Spun silk has a lower tensile 641 strength and lacks the elasticity of reeled silk.