It has short fibers which, though tightly twisted, may work themselves loose and make a fuzzy, rough, uneven surface. Silk feels warm and is smooth and pliable. Rayon feels cooler and heavier than silk in fabrics of comparable weave. Otherwise there is enough similarity to make recognition difficult. THE wool fiber, because of its structure, is called the "warmth" fiber. Its outside surface is covered with tiny overlapping scales similar to fish scales. When wool is wet, the fibers swell and become entangled. Heat, moisture, and friction cause felting; hot water and rubbing cause shrinkage. The structure of the wool fiber makes it possible for wool to enmesh air and gives it its warmth properties. Napping of the material, as in flannel and blankets, also enmeshes air and makes the material warmer than tightly-spun and woven unnapped materials. Wool is the most elastic of all materials. We have two main types of material made from wool?woolens and worsteds. Worsteds are made from long, corded and combed fibers, tightly twisted and usually unnapped so that the weave is easily distinguished. | Woolens are made of shorter, uncombed fibers, less tightly twisted and usually napped. Worsteds are usually made from virgin wool. Reworked wool, or wool from material that has been pulled apart and respun, is often used in woolens. As a general rule, materials made from virgin wool give more satisfactory wear, hold their shape better, are warmer, and wear longer than those made from reworked wool. There is some disagreement as to 642 the value of reworked wooi, though it is generally conceded that materials made from good reworked wool will outwear those made from poor virgin wool. In October, 1940, President Roosevelt signed the bill which requires that wool products be labeled as to the percentage of the total fiber weight that is wool, the amount of virgin wool, the amount of reprocessed wool made from waste not used by consumers, the amount of re-used wool from materials that have been used, and each other fiber in excess of five percent of the total fiber weight of the product. The label must also indicate the maximum percentage of any nonfibrous loading, filling, or adulterating material, and the name of the manufacturer of the wool product. There has been much adulteration of wool, but the new woollabeling act should prevent this. No 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 other fiber has the same qualities as wool. Therefore, when the purchaser desires wool materials, he is entitled to the protection which the wool-labeling act provides. Suggested Activities 1. Perform tests on known materials to show how they react to the feel, burning, lye, and other tests. Test some unknowns to see if fiber content can be determined. Why is it difficult to test materials made from more than one fiber? (See Better Buymanship Bulletin No. 23, "Fabrics," pages 30-32; see footnote. ) 2. There will always be. Some common, standard materials. Learn the names and characteristics by sight and feel. For what purpose is each suitable? 3. Compare the qualities of the various fibers. How do these qualities affect their use? Note: Because of the lack of available space in the Magazine, the General Board has sent to each stake a list of references in blue bulletin No. 15, suitable for use in presenting this lesson. These references may be procured from stake workand-business leaders.