Te a rene Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 3 Mediums and Types of Humor (Tuesday, December 16, 1941) "Humor is born where there is diversity and tolerance of diversity and different points of view. This is why our American humor flourished most in the Middle West, because they had to get along together. In all humor there is a moment of incongruity. Humor cannot bring Heaven to earth, but it can keep it from becoming a hell." Lesson Topics: 1. Review of last lesson 2. Continuation of words as a medium of humor?the pun and similar types ?J. Duncan Speath 3. Incongruities of facts and ideas as mediums of humor?the parody; the burlesque Review of Last Lesson In the last lesson the interesting LESSON DEPARTMENT history of the word humor was given ?changes in its meaning from the original Latin definition of wetness to its use as a medical term, then as a word meaning characteristics of personality and appearance, next to a term denoting a whim or eccentricity, and, finally, to its present meaning. Theories existing from ancient times as to the principles underlying humor were reviewed with brief illustrations of humor based on each. Words as a medium of humor were considered, with examples of humor growing out of bad spelling, poor grammar, and other misuses of words. Continuation of Words as a Medium of Humor The pun is now considered one of the least elevated forms of humor, but it is still popular with many writers and speakers and has at some periods been widely used even by the most eminent writers. A pun is a play on words of the same sound but different meanings, or on different applications of a word. Many puns are to be found in Shakespeare's plays, and are sometimes used in the most tragic moments, and the humor, if such it can be called, in. These puns, is very grim. In Richard II he has poor John of Gaunt, who has become disillusioned and embittered, make a pun of his own name. The old gentleman, with political ambitions for his own son or later did become King Henry IV), has opposed King Richard II, his nephew. Ill from work and worry, he answers a summons from the king. Richard says, "How is it with aged Gaunt?" 'The old man plays upon his name in his reply: "Oh, how that name befits my composi- 643 tion! Old Gaunt indeed; and gaunt in being old? 'Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast, What man abstains from meat that is not gaunt? For sleeping England long time have I watched; Watching breeds leanness; leanness is all gaunt. The pleasure that some fathers feed upon Is my strict fast, I mean?my children's looks; And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt; Gaunt I am for the grave.... " It was not until the nineteenth century, however, that the pun really flourished in English literature. Carolyn Wells, in commenting upon this fact, says that recently a wellknown humorist was making an after-dinner speech when someone called out, "Louder and funnier!" She says that such a voice must have so called to the world's humor at the end of the eighteenth century, for with the nineteenth century the humorous element in literature was decidedly "louder and funnier." Reverend Sidney Smith, himself a great punner (He once said to his fellow ministers who were discussing the question of a wooden sidewalk around St. Paul's Cathedral, "Come, gentlemen, lay your heads together and the thing is done.''), wrote interestingly upon the subject of humor?of punning. He claimed that it was a mistaken idea people had that wit and humor were unattainable. He pointed out that a pun should contain two distinct meanings, one obvious and the other remote. The surprise of the relation of the two meanings is what amuses. He, as others, however, regarded the wit of words as shown in puns to be very inferior to the wit of ideas. Still he maintained that some puns redeemed their species. He liked the following one: Lamb, who was shy with strangers, was once introduced to some new people by a friend, who said, "Now will you promise, Lamb, not to be sheepish?" Lamb replied, "I wool." College students are fond of puns as well as of other vagaries of the language. A typical college pun is the one about the boy with a job on the golf course: "Yes, you see he's 'putting' himself through college." Even though the pun is in disrepute as a medium of humor, it sometimes has a much higher value than the mere ingenuity which amuses, for frequently, as has already been pointed out, it carries a further meaning than that on the surface and intensifies emotions other than that of merriment. This explains Shakespeare's use of puns at dramatic moments, as previously illustrated. Incongruities of Facts and Ideas As Mediums of Humor Words, obviously, are a necessary medium with any oral or written humor. However, the incongruities causing us to laugh are often in facts, ideas, characters, situations in life itself, and not in the words which -portray the incongruities. The following story illustrates this point: "An angry man burst into a repair shop and exclaimed: 'Didn't I ask you guys yesterday to send a man to my home to fix the front doorbell that's been out of order? And didn't you solemnly promise to send somebody out there right away?' "But, Mr. Whiffenbush, we did send someone. I'm certain of it,' protested the manager. Then he called to a workman in the back of the shop: 'Hey, Cokey, didn't you go to Whiffenbush Lodge yesterday to attend to that job?' "Yes, sir,' replied Cokey. 'I went out there all right, and I rang the doorbell for about ten minutes. But nobody answered. Guess there was nobody home.' " The following quotation from Christopher Morley also illustrates humor in the incongruous: "I give humble and hearty thanks for the safe return of this book, which, having endured the perils of my friend's bookcase and the bookcases of my friend's friends, now returns to me in reasonably good condition, "I give humble and hearty thanks that my friend did not see fit to give this book to his infant as a plaything, nor use it as an ash tray for his burning cigar, nor as a teething ring for his mastiff. "When I lent this book, I deemed it lost. I was resigned to the bitterness of the long parting; I never thought to look upon its pages again. "But now that my book has come back to me, I rejoice and am exceedingly glad! Bring hither the fatted morocco, and let us rebind the volume and set it on the shelf of honour; for this book was lent, and is returned again. Presently, therefore, I may return some of the books that I myself have borrowed." Expressed through this medium of incongruity of facts, ideas, treatment, and so on, we have many types of humor, including burlesque and parody. 'These are closely related 'and are called "parasitic" literature, because they, especially parody, are distortions of other pieces of literature and do not exist independent of them. 'The parody always extracts its humor from literature already written. Burlesque attempts to excite laughter by extravagant images or by incongruous contrast, as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity or vice versa. 'The above quotation from Morley has this characteristic. Such phrases as "endured the perils," "resigned to the bitter 

 ?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT ness of the long parting," "rejoice and am exceedingly glad," "bring hither the fatted," give a profound diction to a rather trivial subject. Some of the phrases make it almost a parody on the biblical story of the prodigal son. A burlesqued character is a caricature, one distorted by exaggeration, producing a grotesque or a ridiculous effect. Just so, a burlesqued picture (many cartoons), figure, or description show great exaggeration of the peculiarities of the person or thing depicted. Paul Bunyan, the mythical hero of the North Woods, of lumberjacks, is an example: "Paul Bunyan was no ordinary baby. No, sir. It took six unusually large storks, working overtime, to deliver Paul to his parents. And what a job that was. Flying two abreast, with Paul slung between them, the storks had slow work of it. Paul was so heavy two storks couldn't carry him very far. So with six storks working in three shifts, off they flew toward Paul's future home. Stops were frequent, and the storks changed off, and not much distance was gained between jumps.... Well, they finally got there.... As for the storks, the poor fellows got into the habit of shifting from one foot to the other, trying to get the load off their feet... And their offspring are still doing it." Later problems concerning Paul are filled with similar difficulty. As he grew older, for instance, haircutting was a difficulty: "First, the folks tried to use a pair of sheepshears. 'Then Pa started using a scythe, but it was an all-day's job. The last real haircut Paul had before he left home and went to the North Woods, where he encountered his great adventures, was when Pa Bunyan in- 645 vited the neighbors to help out. Paul lay down with his head on the edge of a gully. The neighbors lined up in pairs to spell each other off, and with a good crosscut saw and working right through from morning until night, Paul really got a haircut." A tendency to burlesque or caricature seems to be inherent in human nature. As has been suggested before, savages enjoy it, and it is found featured in the dances and other ceremonials of primitive peoples. Likewise it has been employed by great literary artists through the ages. Rabelais (Rab'-tl-l4), one of the greatest French writers of the sixteenth century, employed burlesque in his satires on humanity. He created Gargantua, the giant king, under whose tongue a whole army at one time took shelter from the rain, and in whose mouth and throat a city was built. Swift used burlesque in much the same manner and for the same purpose in Gulliver's Travels?his satire on human weaknesses. Dickens and Cervantes are other artists who introduced burlesque in their novels. Some of these writers will be considered in later lessons, along with other phases of our subject. Parody is closely related to burlesque, as has already been indicated. Some burlesques are parodies, and they both depend upon grotesqueness for their humor. But parody is dependent also upon previously written literature. It treats a ridiculous subject in the exact style (especially in its mannerism) of some serious and usually well-known composition or writer. It mimics or mocks the language or sentiment of an quthor. Sometimes parodies, though humorous, are lacking in taste. I recall one about the virtues of the Ford car written in the manner of the '"Twenty-third Psalm." The students of the University of Chicago sing a parody on doxology. The Rockefeller brothers, William and John, richly endowed the university. Their money was made in the oil industry. Some lines from the parody are: "Praise John from whom oil blessings flow, Praise him all creatures here below. Praise William some, but praise John most." John Erskine has used this form of humor in his treatment of the great classics, Adam and Eve, Sir Galahad, and Helen of Troy. He makes revered classical characters laughable in their modern reactions to ancient situations as well as in their use of modern slang. The American Magazine has recently been running a series of delightful parodies by Munro Leaf on literary classics. Writing parodies has perhaps always been a favorite sport of literary-minded college students, who do not always bear in mind this truth stated by Stephen Leacock: "Parody sometimes seems like the malicious smearing of paint over a beautiful picture." Most parodies on poetry have no desire to satirize or criticise. 'They merely employ the original as a pattern for a dress of vastly different material or for an opposite use. It is therein that the humor lies. Sometimes the parody is not of a definite poem, but of a popular idea expressed by many writers. The following anonymous poem is a subtle parody on the human manner of rationalizing. THE RATIONALISTIC CHICKEN "Most strange! Most queer?although most excellent a change! Shades of the prison house, ye disappear! My fettered thoughts have won a wider range, And, like my legs, are free; No longer huddled up so pitiably; Free now to pry and probe and peep and peer ' And make these mysteries out. Shall a free-thinking chicken live in doubt? For now in doubt undoubtedly I am; This problem's very heavy on my mind; And I'm not one to either shirk or sham; I won't be blinded, and I won't be blind! Now let me see: First, I would know how did I get in there? Then, where was I of yore? Besides, why didn't I get out before? Dear me! Here are three puzzles (out of plenty more) ? Enough to give me pip upon the brain! But let me think again! ? How do I know I ever was inside? Now I reflect, it is, I do maintain, Less than my reason, and beneath my price, To think that I could dwell In such a paltry, miserable cell As that old shell. Of course I couldn't! How could I have ~ lain? Body and beak and feathers, legs, and wings, And my deep heart's sublime imaginings? ~ In there? I meet the notion with profound disdain; It's quite incredible, since I declare (And I'm a chicken that you can't deceive), What I can't understand I won't believe! Where did I come from then? Ah, where indeed? This is a riddle monstrous hard to read. I have it! Why, of course, All things are moulded by some plastic force Out of some atoms somewhere up in space, Fortuitously concurrent anyhow. There now! That's plain as is the beak upon my face. What's that I hear? My mother cackling at me?just her way, So prejudiced and ignorant, I say, 

 ?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT So far behind the wisdom of the day. What's old I can't revere. Hark at her: 'You're a silly chick, my dear; That's quite as plain, alack, As is the piece of shell upon your back!' How bigoted! Upon my back, indeed! I don't believe it is there, For I can't see it; and I do declare, For all her fond deceivin', What I can't see, I never will believe in!"' The parody in its serious function, as usually employed by the great writers, ls a protest against oversentimentality or the overreputation of the original. Someone has called it the discord that follows and corrects the note too often struck. It flourished in England during the Victorian period when there was a tendency toward too much "sob-sister" literature. Most of the poets and prose writers of this period have been parodied either in their own or our time. Swinburne made a clever parody on Tennyson's "The Higher Pantheism" as well as on some of his own poems. 'Tennyson's philosophical poem begins: "The sun, the moon, the stars, the seas, the hills and the plaines? Are not these, O soul, the Vision of Him who reigns? Is not the Vision He? Tho' He be not that which he seems?" Swinburne calls his parody "The Higher Pantheism in a Nutshell," and begins: "One who is not, see we; but one, whom we see not, is. Surely this is not that; but that is assured. Ly this. What and wherefore and whence? For under is over and under. If thunder could be without lightning, lightning could be without thunder." One of the most delightful paro- 647 dies in English literature is "The Rape of the Lock," by Pope. He gives the subtitle, "An Heroi-comical Poem," because it is a parody of the heroic epic. It is often called a mock epic. Pope treats a trivial matter with the manner of Homer when he told the story of the fall of Troy. The story is of the theft of a lock of hair. The humorous coupling of the trivial with the profound, and the solemn diction used in relating trivial incidents may be seen from a few quotations. Lord Petre is about to cut the beautiful curl which hangs over Belinda's fair neck: "The peer now spreads the glittering forfex (scissors) wide, To inclose the lock; now joins it to divide." Belinda discovers the loss of her favorite curl: "Then flashed the living lightning from her eyes, And screams of horror rend the affrighted skies; Not louder shrieks to pitying heaven are cast When husbands or when lapdogs breathe their last. Note the coupling of husbands and Japdogs as if they were of equal importance. Later, when the members of the picnicking party who witnessed the atrocity divide for battle, part of them uphold the Baron in his theft of the curl from the head of his beloved. Part of the company think that the lady is justified in her anger. The conflict is treated as if it were a great battle over some momentous problem. Little encounters between the individuals of the two "armies" are described: 648 "While bold Sir Plune had drawn Clarrissa down, Chloe stepped in and killed him with a frown; Sue smiled to see the doughty hero slain, But at her smile the beau revived again. Now Jove suspends his golden scales in air, Weighs men's wits against the lady's hair. "See, fierce Belinda on the Baron flies With more than usual lightning in her eyes. "This bold lord, with manly strength endued, She with one finger and one thumb subdued: Just where the breath of life his nostrils drew A charge of snuff the wily virgin threw. "Sudden with starting tears each eye o'erflows; And the huge dome re-echoes to his nose." Though poetry seems to lend itself most readily to parody, novels and dramas and other types of literature have been the basis of some amusing humorous writing of this class. In her Outline of Humor, Carolyn Wells gives many examples of parody. One of the most delightful sets of illustrations, she says, grew out of a game played by a group of authors. The poets decided to discuss the merits of the "classic" poem, "Peter, Peter, Pumpkin Eater." They stated that the style of the poem was "a little bare," so they took upon themselves the task of embellishing it. Many of the versions are very humorous, particularly those which transpose the jingle to the style of some well-known earlier poet, which gives rise to a sort of double parody. Carolyn Wells wrote 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 her version as a parody on one of Mrs. Browning's loveliest sonnets. (See Outline of Humor, by Carolyn Wells, p. 754.) It is quite evident, then, that parody is a source of amusement in literature. It affords one of the most popular types of humorous reading. Also, as Stephen Leacock has so well stated, this type has other values, too. "Parody," he says, "as a type, has use as a corrective to overstatement, as humor to relieve pain, to console against the shortcomings of life itself." Problems and Projects 1. Why is the pun considered a lower form of humor than parody or burlesque? Illustrate. 2. Give a review of Pope's "The Rape of the Lock," telling how it came to be written, discussing its literary values besides its humor, such as its revelation of the customs and ideals of the time, its quotable passages, et cetera. 3. Read parodies of well-known poems not given in the lesson. 4. Relate incidents to show how wise parents or teachers have used or might use parodies or burlesques to point out or correct faults in the children under their care. 5. Give a character sketch of the burlesque type of some humorous literary character, such as Paul Bunyan or Gargantua. Supplementary Readings Leacock, Greatest Pages of American Humor. Sketches and Humor (in library for the young). E. V. Lucas, and C. L. Graves, Hustled History. Robert Benchley, Of All Things. Nathaniel Hawthorne, Celestial Railway. James Stevens, Paul Bunyan, Garden City Publishing Company, New York. 1925-40. Social Sctence Foundations Of Successful Marriage (Tuesday, December 23, 1941) NO lesson is provided for this date due to the holiday season.