Chimneys and Flues Campers should make sure fires are Upon Sacred Ground Dr. H. Wayne Driggs Assistant Professor of Education, New York University Author of "America's Witness for Christ" HREE hundred and fifty miles from Manhattan through the rolling country of the Empire State seems but a short drive when one feels the pull of Palmyra. To the Latter-day Saint, this little peaceful village in the heart of upstate New York has become the sacred spot from which the reality of the risen Christ and his modern prophet are born anew with each returning visit. Such has been the experience of many thousands of Saints who have journeyed to these beautiful scenes that surround tne cradle of Mormonism. In recent years, since the erection of the magnificent monument that lifts so inspiringly above Cumorah, new life and interest have been brought to this famous hill in the form of dramatic pageantry. To one who has witnessed stirring scenes from the Book of Mormon played under the open heavens upon Cumorah's slopes, and heard voiced upon the night air the classic grandeur of ancient American prophecies concerning the coming of Christ, there comes a hunger for more and more of the words of life. For great prophecies are like great music, they grow upon the listener with successive renditions. It has been with such longing in past summers that many thousands of people—by far the majority of whom are non-Mormons—have returned for five successive years to Cumorah to seé and hear "America's Witness for Christ." Page 596 And so on the late afternoon of July 12th, as one who had come | again, I too skimmed along the smooth macadam roads that wind over the green rolling fields toward the town of Palmyra. My wife, two sons, and two cousins were in the car with me. The lengthening shadows of evening were stretching over the farms as we rounded the last turn which threw Cumorah into full view. There upon its wooded slope were three huge stages, one directly above the other, set off with highly-colored scenic flats that depicted the skill and culture of the pre-Columbian inhabitants of the American continents. Even at this early hour before sunset a stir of expectancy among those present pervaded the quiet but inspiring scene. A number of the Eastern States missionaries in direct charge of the lighting, sound, and stage effects were on the grounds treading the many paths upon the slope in their routine check-up of equipment. Within the tent dressing rooms that lifted above the thickly-wooded wings of the central stages came the rustle of costumes. High along Cumorah's ridge two or three figures silhouetted against the deepening sky made their way toward the monument. Night came quickly over Cumorah this midsummer evening, for there was much to contemplate with friends upon this ground, and before we knew it the crowd about the base of the hill had thickened. TRUMPETERS HERALD PAGEANT, "AMERICA'S WITNESS FOR CHRIST" "THE 'STICK OF JOSEPH' WAS TO GO HAND IN HAND WITH A RECORD CALLED THE 'STICK OF JUDAH' " Upon the acres that apron the rising slope of the hill, state troopers assisted by an able staff of missionaries, had directed an unending line of cars that almost noiselessly rolled upon the parking field. People here have come to respect the sacredness of this spot. Scores of cars had been parked and thousands of seats had been filled by 7 p. M., two hours before the pageant was to begin. ALF an hour before curtain time, I stood upon the ridge of the hill and watched the necklace of moving lights that came from both directions along the Palmyra-Manchester road into the Y that forked upon the parking field. All proceeded in orderly fashion until the fields were completely filled. As the nine o'clock hour arrived, an announcement over the loud speaker from the lower stage instructed the huge crowd to turn off car lights and refrain from smoking. The response to this request was unusual. Nowhere have I seen so large an open-air crowd so uniformly respect the general wishes of those in charge of a production. 'Then came the swelling sound of music, and with it the field lights, high above the seated audience, faded into the darkness of the night. The pageant was to begin! Across the sweep of the hill, four floodlights lifted into sight the flowing white robes of the trumpeters who stood at the base of the monument. Then when the last blended notes from their golden horns died upon the breeze, the lights came up on the lower stage illuminating the 

 —SEPTEMBER, 1941

 UPON SACRED GROUND single figure of the ancient prophet Ezekiel who spoke of the two sticks that would go hand in hand in the latter days to bear witness of the Christ—the Bible and the Book of Mormon. After, in successive order, came the scenes portraying Moroni in his father Mormon's workshop receiving the records which bore witness of the Messiah and his visit to the Americas. Then came the vision of Nephi, the testimony of Abinadi, the conversion of Alma the younger, the conversion of King Lamoni, the fiery words of Samuel the Lamanite, and last the appearance of Christ himse]f to the Nephites. As a closing scene, Moroni again appeared and delivered the plates of the Book of Mormon to the boy prophet, Joseph Smith, and with these immortal words the pageant closed: "And when ye, o people of the earth, shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of th Holy Ghost." Most impressive were the lighting effects. In the appearance of the Christ and the Angel Moroni, the intense light that illumined their beings seemed to come from within them. Equally good was the sound system which carried the voices of the characters far across the valley. The costumes were beautiful; and the excellent acting done by the large cast of missionaries was a tribute to J. Karl Wood and Harold I. Hansen, their directors. INSPIRING has been the growth through the years since the summer 599 of 1937 when Elder Don B. Colton, then president of the Eastern States Mission, first presented "America's Witness for Christ" at Cumorah. Following his lead, Elder Frank Evans, who succeeded him as mission president, heightened and perfected the performances through three successive summers. This year, the present mission president, Gustave A. Iverson, has brought many new and helpful additions to enhance the total effectiveness of the pageant and conference. Among other things, he has established two booths of information from which thousands of tracts were distributed and many copies of the Book of Mormon sold. He told the writer that after each of the two performances this year but few tracts had COSTUMES FOR PAGEANT WERE AUTHENTIC AND COLORFUL 

 —SEPTEMBER, 1941

 STAGES, SCENERY, AND STAGE PROPERTIES WERE BUILT BY MISSIONARIES been dropped upon the fields. Nearly every piece of literature distributed was taken away. The deep interest shown by the most attentive audiences of Friday and Saturday evenings carried conversations about the things experienced far beyond the immediate scene of the pageant. So it was with the writer and his party. For during the whole of the long return trip to New York on the following day, the inspiring scenes of the night before had made Palmyra live again as a sacred spot in this new land, whence had come the Book of Mormon — "America's Witness for Christ."