The pageant indicated that the courses offered by Relief Society?theology and testimony, applied home arts, literature, social service and music ?aid the home, "the key to a life beautiful." Jeanette Batt was soloist and Zilla Mattice and Velda Ostlund were pageant readers. Preceding the pageant, Clarice G. Sloan, president of the Portland Stake Relief Society, welcomed the new members in an impressive ceremony. Each new member was presented with an attractive booklet with a tiny key attached. On the cover of the book, in gold lettering, were the words, "My Home?The Key To a Life Beautiful."'" On the flyleaf of the booklet was a choice poem on the home by Marguerite J. Griffin. The book contained a copy of "The Perfect Earth Home" from the address, "Our Homes," by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., published in the Relief Society Magazine, December, 1940. Membership awards were made by Marjorie Centro. Following the pageant, refreshments were served in the beautiful lounge rooms of the Tabernacle to approximately 200 guests. Teressa S. Johnson pronounced the benediction. Accompanying this interesting report was an attractive membership card prepared by the Portland Third Ward. 635 Mount Ogden Stake (Ogden, Utah) N interesting account of mem. Bership activities in the Mount Ogden Stake is sent to us by Ella P. Farr, Relief Society stake president. Anxious to increase the Relief Society membership, the stake officers suggested that each ward prepare a book containing a picture and a short biographical sketch of each Relief Society member, the book to be filed away as a history. The stake board prepared a similar book, containing photographs of the eight Re-_ lief Society general presidents, past and present Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society presidents and stake boards, and all ward presidents; short biographical sketches accompanied each photograph. Both ward and stake books were very attractive; the stake board book designed by stake officers was prepared by the Handicraft Shop. To further stimulate membership, a painting of the mountain, Ben Lomond, by Mary Warnock, displayed at the Springville Art Exhibit, was donated to the Relief Society by Brother and Sister E. A. Larkin. Each month, this picture is to be awarded to the ward showing the highest percentage of membership increase for the month. In 1942, the picture will be permanently awarded to the ward showing the highest percentage of increase since 1937. In presenting the picture to the stake, Sister Larkin said: "There is strength in numbers, and we appreciate the joy of associating together. In doing for others, we attain the fulfillment of our greatest desires. This law was given to us by the Savior, when He said: 'He that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it.? 636 "In giving this picture to you, we trust that its influence will be 'thrice blessed'?may it bless Sister Warnock that she will paint again; may it bless the sisters who come into this organization through your present membership efforts; and may it bless and inspire all who view it." Another stimulating membership activity of this stake was the anniversary service held in each ward on Sunday evening in connection with the Sacrament meeting. Sisters Donna D. Sorensen, Alice B. Castleton and Leona Fetzer Wintch, members of the Relief Society General Board, added much to the inspiring services in three of the wards. Malad Stake (Malad, Idaho) NELLIE S. GLEED, Malad Stake membership coordinator, sent the following interesting report of membership activities in Malad Stake: "Suggested by the Idaho Falls Stake candlelighting program reported in January, 1941, "Notes 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER, 1941

 from the Field," candle-lighting ceremonies were held in almost every ward in our stake this spring. These services, held in connection with Sacrament meeting on a Sunday evening, have been very effective in helping Malad Stake increase its Relief Society enrollment, by June 10, 1941, to 72 percent of Latter-day Saint women in the' stake. "We have several wards which have attained almost 100 percent. With the active support of Bishop Guy Servoss and Mrs. Amelia Spencer, ward membership coordinator, Malad Second Ward made_ the greatest increase in enrollment. We are hoping to reach a still higher goal before December 31." The accompanying pictures are of new members of Malad Third Ward and Portage Ward Relief Societies taken following the candle-lighting ceremonies. Hanna S. Harris is Malad Stake Relief Society president. NEW MEMBERS OF MALAD THIRD WARD, MALAD STAKE, AT CANDLE-LIGHTING CEREMONY, MARCH 16, 1941 Membership Arch is in Center NOTES FROM THE FIELD 637 NEW MEMBERS OF PORTAGE WARD, MALAD STAKE, AT CANDLELIGHTING CEREMONY, MARCH 16, 1941 Membership Arch is in Center. South Los Angeles Stake (Huntington Park, California) RUTH RYAN, first counselor to Hazel T. Neville, president of South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, recently reported summer membership activities in this stake. The stake "Wheel" and "Key" posters shown in the accompanying photograph were displayed at a successful luncheon which was attended by ward presidents, counselors, and membership coordinators. 'Tables were arranged to form the letter "M." The luncheon stimulated new interest and ideas. It was reported that of 1271 Latter-day Saint families in this stake, 725 members had been enrolled in Relief Society up to that time. SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE "WHEEL" AND "KEY" POSTERS The "Wheel' Turns, Putting the Ward with the Highest Percent of New Members at the Top. A Poster Contest was a Feature of Summer Membership Activity in this Stake. ie} DEPARTMENT Theology and Jestimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 3 CHAPTER 3, T'RANSGRESSION AND THE FALL Article 2?"'We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression." (Tuesday, December 2, 1941) I. Lesson Aim To teach that the fall of man was part of a God-ordained plan, and that each living soul is responsible for the exercise of his free agency. If. Divisions of the Subject Matter A. Man's responsibility for his freedom of choice. (Articles of Faith, pp. 52-57) B. The characteristics of sin, and its consequences. (Articles of Faith, pp. 57-63, 473-474) C. The exercise of free agency, and the fall of man. (Articles of Faith, pp. 63-67, someone who was converted to the Church because of the hope that the doctrine of free agency gave. The attention of the class leaders is called to the expressions of joy given by Eve when she, with Adam, learned of the effect of the fall and the atonement provided. Her words, as found in Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:11, might be placed on the blackboard and be drawn to the attention of the class. Topics for Special Reports degeneracy and not of immorality. (See quences of the fall. (Articles Faith, Appendix 3, Note 4, page 474.) 236-242; Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:10- III. Suggestions for Teachers 1) 3. Scriptural teachings regarding the duration of punishment in the hereafter. This lesson might be introduced by relating a story of (See Doctrine and Covenants 19:4-12.) Page 638 68-70) D. The nature and of Faith, pp. 67-68, 475- 476) 1. The fall was a process of physical conseJesus the Christ, pp. 29-31, and Articles of 2. The blessings that result from mortality. (See Vitality of Mormonism, pp. LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions and Problems 1. What evidence can you present to indicate that the fall was not an accidental happening, but was foreknown to God? 2. Distinguish between the expressions "Garden of Eden" and ''Paradise." (See Book of Mormon, Alma 40:12, and Articles of Faith, Appendix 3, Note 3, page 474) at were the consequences of the "death" suffered by Adam and Eve following their transgression? 639 References Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 3, PP. 52-73, 473-476. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 18-20, 29-31. Talmage, Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 236-242. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 58-63. Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 85, 86. Book of Mormon, I Nephi 2; Alma 42; II Nephi 9.