Recipes by Mme. Rorer, given in her classes in Salt Lake City, August, 1915. Children should be taught very early in life to eat the things which are best for them. Each child has its own likes and dislikes, but every mother should see to it that her children have the proper nourishment taken into the body in spite of personal tastes. If a child does not care for a certain thing, don't try to make him eat it the body will take care of itself. But encourage a taste for things you know are good for him. Fats are never digested, they are assimilated; fat is the only food that is not digested. Fat taken into the body remains as fat in the body. Starch taken into the body is changed into sugar; sugar taken into the body is changed into acid. People have gone shortening mad; and the desire for fried foods is said by some to be a great cause of cancer. Cancer is very prevalent where pork is used to excess and foods swim in fat. When we realize that Mme. Rorer's new book on Breadmaking contains 9,000 pages, we can see how much there is to be learned in this one line of cookery.
— Scotch Scones. The ingredients are one cup of milk, two cups of flour, one egg, two level teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful of shortening. Add the baking powder, the salt and the shortening to the flour and mix thoroughly. Beat the eggs and add the milk. Pour milk and egg into the flour. Drop into a dish and put in a quick oven. Bake in twenty minutes.
— Nut Bread. The same recipe is used, except that the shortening is omitted and two-thirds of a cup of nuts added. After the mixture is prepared, let it stand ten minutes to raise. It should bake forty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Nut bread should never be cut until the next day.
— Egg Rolls. This recipe is the same as for Scotch scones except that two-thirds of a cup of milk is used. Roll out moderately thin, cut into a circle, fold over, press together and bake.
Pin Wheels. —Use the same dough as for egg rolls. Roll into a thin sheet. Spread thinly with butter, thickly with sugar, dust over a little cinnamon and a few currants. Roll and cut into small sections. In baking, the sections should not be placed too closely together.
— Plain Mush Bread. For plain mush bread put one pint of milk over the fire. Add one cup of cornmeal. Stir until you have a smooth mush. Take from the fire, add one-half teaspoonful of salt, the yolks of four eggs. Fold in the whites of four eggs. Bake in a moderate oven for about a half hour.
— Milk Biscuits. Use recipe for Scotch scones; add three-fourths of a cup of milk, and omit the egg.