GENEALOGY.
The moment a person begins his individual record, he is confronted with a number of questions: When was I baptized? When was I appointed to office in the Relief Society? And many other numerous points. Too often the person who is unable to give all this information off-hand, becomes discouraged, and gives the whole matter up. What then shall be done by the class teacher or supervisor?
First ? Encourage the person to write down all she can in the class.
And second ? urge her to write and inquire for further information. If it is a baptism date, write to the Bishop of the ward; if born in the Church, write to the parish minister, if christened in the old country. If the endowment date is missing, write to the President of the Temple where the ordinance was performed, stating exactly what you want. Always send stamps for reply.
We give a sample letter to help our workers in distant stakes:
Logan, Nov. 9.
Dear Sir:
My name is Mrs. Mary Ann Smith Jones. I was born 20th November, 1869, in Provo. Was baptized in the Fourth ward of that city when I was eight years old; that is, in 1877, so my mother told me. My father's name is Jesse Smith, my mother's name is Mrs. Hannah Allen Smith. Can you give me the exact date, and the name of the elder who officiated in the baptism and in the confirmation ordinances? I enclose stamps for reply. Thanking you in advance for your kindness, I am
Yours truly,
Model letter to Parish Clerk:
Parish Clerk of Old South Church, Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir:
My second great-grandfather, William Young, who married Hannah Healy, of Cambridge, was a worshiper in your church, in 1721. He went from Boston to Barrington, N. H., in 1720-22, was one of the original proprietors of that town, but in all Barrington deeds, he speaks of himself as "of Boston." His children were: Elizabeth ? who married Elisha Hall ? and Joseph. William later ? probably in 1730 ? moved to Hopkinton, Mass., with his friend Rev. Samuel Barrett of the Old North Church, Boston, taking his wife and two children with him. William died in Hopkinton, in 1749. Can you give any further information from your records? I want date of William's birth, parent's name, and other data. Also birth dates of children, Elizabeth and Joseph, and wish to know if there were other children. Will pay regular rate for searching records. I enclose stamps for reply. Thanking you in advance, I am
Yours truly.
When writing to non-"Mormon" church officials, or relatives, it is always better to enclose a blank such as we furnish in this office. In any letters of inquiry, observe the following points:
Give your own full name ? never use initials. Give the full name of the person whose record you wish searched for. Give dates of birth, marriage, or death of the person, if you have them. Give birthplace, places of residence of self, or the person desired. Where possible, add the names and dates of family members, if you desire information concerning their parents.
Practical Class Exercise. ? Let each student write an actual or a model letter, asking for information on some point concerning her individual record. If the Relief Society member has prepared her own sheet, then let her write out her husband's sheet in the same full and careful manner. This work should preferably be done in the class. Where sheets are left with the person to fill out at home, they are too often forgotten or neglected.
QUESTIONS.
How much can you give of your own data? What would you do to get missing dates in your record? Why is it important to get out your own data? What points would you note always in your letters to bishops, clerks, or ministers? Why are initials misleading? What genealogical value is there in the use of your full name, when writing to others for more information? When writing for information about your parents or grandparents, what plan would you follow? When your own data is complete, what next will you do?
ART AND ARCHITECTURE.
WINTER LANDSCAPE AND SUNSHINE.
Re-read introduction in January Art lesson.
Let each member make for herself what the artists call a "finder," this is a small picture frame of stiff cardboard or pasteboard about 2x3 inches, which should be colored black. With this little frame, you can find many beautiful pictures in nature, that you would not perhaps otherwise notice.
In observing the winter landscape, we are taking a special interest in the color of the sky, the character of clouds, the character and color of the bare trees and brush, and the color of the shadows on the snow. Hold up your picture frame or "finder;" cover up one eye, and look for the lightest thing and the darkest spot in the picture you have selected in your frame.
VALUES.
Which is lighter, the sky or the field of snow? What color would you use to paint that clump of willows or bushes? You could not paint the snow correctly with pure white. What color would you mix with white to show the effect of sunlight on the snow? (The answer might be yellow.) What color would you use to make the shadows on the snow?
FEBRUARY TWILIGHT.
a. What is the length of duration of the winter twilight? b. Describe winter twilight on a lake or river bank, or a twilight scene from your own window. c. Tell what object in that picture makes the darkest note, and which the lightest note. d. Every window should frame a picture. Does yours at twilight? e. At what time of day is the snow-covered ground darker than the sky? (Half close the eyes and look through the lashes to discover this.)
WINTER WALK.
Let the members take in little groups, or singly as seems best, a winter walk to observe and enjoy winter landscape. Take with you the "finder" and make a search for pictures along your path, and report the same at the Art lesson.
LESSON ON ARCHITECTURE.
a. Quick review of January lesson in Architecture from Devotees and Their Shrines, pages 120-22. b. New lesson, from pages 122 to 124.
1. The Transition to the Renaissance.
2. Elizabethan style.
3. The Jacobean style.
Questions:
a. Describe the Transition to the Renaissance. b. Describe the Renaissance movement. (Note page 123.) (Also consult Dictionary and Encyclopedia.) c. What are the Classic Orders? d. Describe the Elizabethan style. (Figure 3, Montacute House.)
LESSON IV. Home Economics.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
Fourth Week, February.
The "Mormon" Conception of the Home.
Unlike other peoples, the Latter-day Saints believe that the home upon earth is patterned after the home in heaven. Paul says that things earthly are a type of things heavenly. In the righteous home, the husband and father presides by reason of his superior wisdom and virtue. The wife and mother stands shoulder to shoulder with him, while the children repeat their virtues and their teachings.
Ideals of the Christian Family.
Mortal life is one of the grandest privileges granted by our Father. To have the opportunity of gradual development, of growth, of achievement, this is one of the supreme gifts of God to his children. Mortal life is a preparatory school for the spirit. The body may be compared to the four walls in which we learn our lessons. These walls confine our spirits, limit our powers, and check the full expression of our wills ? happily so. For without these confining walls, we would be powerless to react, unable to learn the full lesson of faith, unselfish love and strict obedience to law.
The Family Circle.
Race suicide, and its twin sister ? prevention of child-bearing, through so-called harmless methods, has no place in the heavenly plan for our human homes. Men and women who know not God can be excused, perhaps, for maintaining childless homes. But true Christians, and Latter-day Saints are the truest of all Christians, cannot acquiesce in any doctrine or practice which sanctions marriage and allows restriction of offspring. God only is the arbiter of life and death. If a man take his own life he cuts himself off from the presence of God. Why not also declare that the woman who prevents birth cuts herself off from all hope of eternal exaltation? The greatest modern sin is the limiting of offspring for selfish purposes. This sin is denounced in the book of Jasher, an ex-canonical book, as one of the prime causes of the deluge.
Love and Service.
The foundation of all joy and all happiness, is to love and to serve. If we love truly, we will want to serve. The joy of service is the keenest delight the heart ever knows. To acquire money, knowledge or fame, gives a certain crude pleasure but to be of service, to administer to others, to achieve, this is the supreme happiness, it is God-like.
Obedience to the Laws of Health.
God thought so much of health that he inspired Moses to write a whole code of laws governing the minutest point of daily action for the children of Israel. He taught them the strictest cleanliness, bade them burn infected clothing, whitewash houses, cleanse all vessels, and made personal cleanliness a part of their ceremonial rituals. Modern teachers and physicians have but emphasized, and clothed in simple terms, the restrictions of Moses. The Word of Wisdom, and the 123-126 verses of the 88th section of the Doctrine and Covenants, restate these laws.
Physical Virtues.
Virtue is generally its own reward. As a rule, those who keep the laws of health will be strong and well. There is one point, however, to consider: there may be many laws of which we are ignorant as well as the few we know. We may be breaking some unknown physical law even if we are keeping all the known laws. So that, after all, we are dependent on our Father's mercy, not only for life and breath, but also for what measure of health we may enjoy from time to time. However, we should keep the laws we know, that we may not suffer the consequences of willful disobedience. God may and does overrule our ignorant disobedience, but he is not so merciful to deliberate disobedience.
Longevity.
Most men crave long life. Simple food, with a good variety, plenty of sleep, obedience to the laws of the gospel, the day well measured as to work and play, a mind free from corroding worry ? these may insure long years of useful life. A prolonged age is not an unmixed blessing. If elderly people are happily engaged in the rejuvenating labors of the temple, or in useful service to mankind, the years may flow on to the century mark. But idle and complaining old age has but one apparent blessing, the discipline of spirit for younger members of the family.
Improvements of Home Life.
The wise mother will endeavor to adjust herself to the lightning changes of modern times. But as old habits are broken up and new ideals emerge from the day's problems, she will scan closely the relations of the changing customs to the rock of revelation and to the revealed forms of religion. Above all things the mother of tomorrow must be adaptable, able to seize the best of today, while losing none of the priceless things of yesterday. Truth is ever the same; but there are so many ways of seeing and presenting truth that the wise mother and grandmother will search constantly for the new word, the modern phrase, the up-to-date illustration with which to clothe her eternal truth, her everlasting principles of virtue and holiness.
Truth, loyalty and integrity, these are the pillars of the home, the foundations of society, here and hereafter. We need stricter obedience to the laws of cleanliness, to the Word of Wisdom, and to the laws of Moses as taught in modern hygiene, and the Doctrine and Covenants. We need constant watchfulness on the part of parents, for the protection of childhood from the moral contamination of modern conditions. We need constant emphasis placed on the importance of the spiritual laws of our own religion. That which parents love to do, children usually enjoy doing also. We need more loyal affection and reverence shown by mothers to fathers, by children to parents, and by fathers to the presiding priesthood. We should cultivate a strict adherence to the teachings of our pioneer fathers and mothers, while remembering to honor their lives and memories.
QUESTIONS.
What are the teachings of the Church concerning the home? What do you consider one of the greatest gifts of God to his children? What have you taught your daughters about bearing their children? Are women ever justified in refusing to have children? Who are the healthiest women in your community, and how many children have they brought into the world? What brings the greatest joy to the human soul? What is the meaning of love? When do we serve best? What book in the Bible contains the laws of health as taught by Moses? What are the foundation principles of the home?
Outlines of Guide Lessons for 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
1. Eve.
2. Sarah, Hagar.
3. Rebecca, Rachel, Leah.
4. Deborah, Huldah, Miriam.
5. Ruth.
6. Esther.
7. Jezebel, Delilah, Witch of Endor.
8. Minor characters of the Old Testament: Potiphar's wife, Pharaoh's daughter, Keturah, Aseneth, Hannah, Michal, Abigail, Mizpah.
9. New Testament women: Anna, Elizabeth, Mary and Martha.
10. Mary, the mother of Jesus.
OUTLINES FOR GENEALOGY, 1916.
January ? Prepare Individual Sheets. How to write genealogical letters. February ? Secure members for the Genealogical Society of Utah. March ? Each Relief Society member required to prepare sheets for each member of her family. How to arrange excursions to the Temples. April ? Family Associations. Each woman should attend Temple service at least one week during the year in her district. May ? Linking the Present to the Past. June ? Review of Genealogical Needs. July. August. September ? Introduction to Surnames. Why surnames were taken. October ? Tribal Names. November ? Sire Names. December ? Surnames from Legends, Totem Surnames.
ARCHITECTURE OUTLINES FOR 1916.
February. a. The Transition to the Renaissance. b. Elizabethan style. c. Jacobean style.
March. a. Artistic gardening. Leila M. Ann ? Devotees and their Shrines, pages 144-149. b. The Dear Old Garden, Dr. Emmeline B. Wells.
April. a. Classic Period. b. The Classic Revivals. c. The Victorian Gothic.
May. Architecture in the United States. a. The Formative Period. b. The Colonial or Georgian Period.
June. a. The early Republican Period. b. The Revivals.
September. a. The War Period. b. The Modern Movement.
October. a. Examples of Recent Architecture.
November. Exhibition of pictures of beautiful architecture. (Give name of architects, if possible.)
December. a. Discuss architecture of the recent Fair at San Francisco, and show pictures of the same. Make a special point of the balance and harmony used in the placing of the buildings.
ART OUTLINES.
March. a. Melting and freezing weather. b. Wind and rain.
April. a. Soaking wet Spring day, colors and values. b. Dry Spring day, colors and values. c. Spring blossoms and winter's snow. d. Out of door party.
May. The May or June walk to note Spring colors and values. Study of fields.
June. Summer day, Balmy weather, Summer twilight.
September. Approach of Fall Indian Summer haze. Fall twilight.
October. Out of door Autumn party.
November. Wet day, foggy weather, purple of bare branches.
December. Skating scenes.
HOME ECONOMICS.
I. The Modern Home. II. The Latter-day Saint Home. III. Home-making as a Profession. a. The home as an economic institution. IV. The Business Side of Home-making. V. The Household Budget and Its Application to Us. a. Standards of living. VI. Organization of Housework. a. Hygiene of housework. VII. Household Wastes and How to Prevent Them. VIII. Co-operative Housekeeping. IX. The Servant Problem. X. The Home Economics Movement and Its Meaning.
Note: The first two lessons may be studied and given in the form of lectures by some one capable of doing so. Two or more societies could unite where possible and secure an outside lecturer. It is difficult to prescribe a cure for any condition unless the cause is known, and its development of the present family life is most interesting.
International Congress of Genealogy.
We copy the following from the Journal of Heredity, November, 1915, an account of our glorious Congress:
The International Congress of Genealogy which met in connection with the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco from July 27 to 30, represented sixty-five genealogical, historical, patriotic, heraldic and family associations and had accredited to it about 275 delegates elected by these organizations. In addition, there were many others interested in genealogy, but not officially accredited, who attended the congress. The Utah Genealogical Society sent to the meeting a special train carrying 269 persons from Utah. The program provided that the congress should meet the week following the national convention of the American Historical Association and the week preceding the annual meeting of the American Genetic Association and Second International Conference of Race Betterment. It also provided for meetings in San Francisco of family associations during or as near as possible to the time of the genealogical congress. Some of the latter were held.
This plan and the genealogical congress, first of its kind ever held, were proposed by the Hon. Boutwell Dunlap, of San Francisco, recording secretary of the California Genealogical Society. He first proposed an International Congress of Genealogy and Eugenics. Not desiring to conflict with other eugenic organizations, the name of the congress was later restricted to the International Congress of Genealogy. The invitations to the congress and family associations were issued jointly in the names of the Panama-Pacific International Exposition and the California Genealogical Society.
Some of the organizations that elected delegates to the congress were the National Society of Americans of Royal Descent, Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, College of Arms and Seigneural Court of Canada, American Society of Colonial Families, New England Historical Genealogical Society, Huguenot Society of America, Louisiana Historical Society, Maine Genealogical Society, Historical Society of New Mexico, Order of Founders and Patriots of America, Society of Genealogists of London, National Genealogical Society, National Society of the Sons and Daughters of the Pilgrims, National Society of Sons of the Revolution.
An International Genealogical Federation was formed and a resolution affecting eugenics, introduced by Mr. Dunlap and unanimously adopted by the congress, was as follows:
"Resolved, that one of the objects of the International Genealogical Federation shall be the collection and preservation of genealogical data for eugenic purposes, and that the committee of organization of said International Genealogical Federation is hereby instructed to provide for the said collection and preservation of genealogical data for eugenic purposes."
Attention To Subscribers
Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10% discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves.
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation.
Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.
The Most Interesting, Friends of President Inspiring and Beautiful Emmeline B. Wells Scenic Sections of the West Secure the second edition of her Poems for your ChristARE REACHED VIA mas present.
[UNION PACIFIC LOGO] The book is 336 pages, beautifully bound in blue and Including gold, with two illustrations of Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon the distinguished author, and Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park contains her Ode written at Jackson Hole Country the age of 87, as well as all her Lost River Country poems. Wood River Country The Snake River Price $1.50 Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts On sale at the leading book stores, and by subscription to Pacific Coast Excursions the author. Daily to November 30th
For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah
MAGAZINE AGENTS, ATTENTION!
Agents should always state whether each subscriber is a renewal or a new subscriber.
Stake Presidents are requested to lend their aid and influence to secure loyal subscription lists for our Magazine. Send in your lists early and often.
Z. C. M. I.
School Shoes For Boys
Are made for service ? they keep the boys' feet warm and dry.
Z. C. M. I.
ALLOVERS
are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable.
English and American
ARCHITECTURE
By GEO. M. ALLEN
is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book,
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES.
Send to this office or to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned.
PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID
It's FREE ? send for the little book "Cameos"
Three thousand words on Cameos
Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos
The only book of its kind published
W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them
There is Only One Best Way To Do Anything
Are YOU efficient, or do you THINK you are?
Do you THINK you DESIRE to be EFFICIENT?
Do you THINK it HARD ENOUGH, and is your DESIRE STRONG ENOUGH to carry you through to efficiency?
When you TRAVEL do you do so EFFICIENTLY or HAPHAZARDLY?
The EFFICIENT TRAVELER plans his trip, ascertains what points of interest he is allowed to visit without extra expense ? knows that his ticket carries him to all the points of interest he desires to visit.
The EFFICIENT traveler is sure that his ticket reads over the line that insures him Safety, Service, Scenery, Convenience, Comfort and Courtesy, the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC
INVESTIGATE AND PLAN
For full information, personal attention, carefully planned itineraries and beautifully illustrated literature about CALIFORNIA, call in or write the
SOUTHERN PACIFIC OFFICE, Second Floor, Walker Bank Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Office where They KNOW All About CALIFORNIA.
We particularly desire to wish a VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS and an EXCEPTIONALLY PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR to the MEMBERS of the GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY who journeyed over our lines on the Excursion to California this year.
C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agent, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Mid-winter Excursion TO CALIFORNIA
December 27, 1915