Mothers in Israel. Among the thousands of great and noble women who have assisted in laying the foundations of this Church, the Mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith stands out pre-eminent and glorious. She is the great modern Mother in Israel. She accepted the Prophet's mission from the very first moment that she heard it, she rendered obedience to every revealed law, during her life, she reverenced her husband and her prophet-son, Joseph, and after his martyrdom, she still gave her full support and allegiance to Brigham Young and the Twelve Apostles, as shown in the testimony which accompanies this article. "Mother" Smith, as she was lovingly called, was a dominating figure in any assemblage where she happened to be. She was commanding in appearance, keen in intellect, dignified and gracious in manner, and she loved the sick, the poor, and the unfortunate, with an abiding tenderness. She was the soul of hospitality and generosity. Together with her noble husband, she ministered to all who came for help or shelter beneath their generous roof-tree. When young people came into her presence, they often kneeled before her as they spoke to her, so beautiful was the spirit which shone from her dark and glowing eyes. We give the following sketch of her life, taken in extracts from Jenson's Biographical Dictionary a book, by the way, which ought to be in every Relief Society library "Lucy Smith, mother of Joseph Smith the Prophet, was born July 8, 1776, at Gilsum, Cheshire county, New Hampshire, the daughter of Solomon Mack and Lydia Gates. Lucy was the youngest of eight children, four of whom were girls * * * "Lucy profited by the talents and virtues of her mother. Jan. 24, 1796, she was married to Joseph Smith, and received from her brother, Stephen Mack, and John Mudget, his partner, in business, a marriage present of $1,000. Her husband owned a good farm at Tunbridge, on which they settled. The fruits of this marriage were seven sons Alvin, Hyrum, Joseph, Samuel H., Ephraim, William and Don Carlos; and three daughters Sophronia, Catherine and Lucy. In 1802, Lucy Smith, with her husband, moved to Randolph, Vermont, where they opened a mercantile establishment. * * * After four years had elapsed, they removed to Manchester. In the alternate scenes of adversity and prosperity, the subject of religion was a constant theme with both Mr. and Mrs. Smith, though the former never subscribed to any particular sect. Both were occasionally favored of the Lord with dreams or visions of the approaching work which was about to commence on the earth, and which prepared them for the mission of their son Joseph, and the important part they were destined to take in it. Lucy Smith and several of her children joined the Presbyterian body, in the year 1819, but after Joseph had received the first visitation of the angel, and had communicated the matter to his parents, she manifested intense interest in it, and from that time her history became identified with the mission of her son. She and her husband were baptized in April, 1830, and she removed to Kirtland, Ohio, in 1831, with the first company of Saints, where she rejoined her husband who had previously gone there in company with his son Joseph * * * "Later Brother Smith removed his family to Quincy, Illinois, to which place most of the Saints had previously fled, and in common with them suffered the hardships and privations which characterized the extermination from Missouri. From Quincy the family removed to Commerce (Nauvoo), where Brother Smith, after blessing his children individually, closed his earthly career Sept. 4, 1840. Mother Smith was thus left a widow, worn out with toil and sorrow, her house having been filled with sick like a hospital from the time of the expulsion from Missouri. * * * "From the time of the removal of the Church to the Rocky Mountains until her death, which occurred in Nauvoo, Ill., May 5, 1855, she mostly resided with her youngest daughter, Lucy Miliken, excepting the last two years, when she resided with her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Emma Bidamon, widow of her son Joseph." We close this little memoir with the following firm testimony which should be read by every woman in this Society: Extract from President Brigham Young's Office Journal. Remarks of "Mother" Smith, given in the General Conference in Nauvoo, Oct. 8, 1845 Mother Lucy Smith, the aged and honored parent of Joseph Smith, having expressed a wish to say a few words to the congregation, she was invited upon the stand. She spoke at considerable length, and in an audible manner, so as to be heard by a large portion of the vast assembly. She commenced by saying that she was truly glad that the Lord had let her see so large a congregation. She had a great deal of advice to give, but Brother Brigham Young had done the errand, he had fixed it completely. There were comparatively few in the assembly who were acquainted with her family. She was the mother of eleven children, seven of whom were boys. She raised them in the fear and love of God, and never was there a more obedient family. She warned parents that they were accountable for their children's conduct advised them to give them; books and work to keep them from idleness warned all to be; full of love, goodness and kindness, and never to do in secret, what they would not do in the presence of millions. She wished to know of the congregation, whether they considered her a mother in Israel (upon which President B. Young said all who; consider Mother Smith as a mother in Israel, signify it by saying yes!— One universal "yes" rang throughout). She remarked, that it was just eighteen years since Joseph Smith the prophet had become acquainted with the contents of the plates and then, in; a concise manner, she related over the most prominent points in the early history of her family; their hardships, trials, privations, persecutions, sufferings, etc. some parts of which melted those; who heard her to tears, more especially the part relating to a scene in Missouri, when her beloved son Joseph was condemned to be shot in fifteen minutes, and she by prodigious efforts was enabled to press through the crowd to where he was, and to give him her hand but could not see his face he took her hand and; ; kissed it she said, let me hear your voice once more, my son he; ; said God bless you, my dear mother! She gave notice that she had written her history, and wished it printed before we leave this place. She then mentioned a discourse once delivered by Joseph, after his return from Washington, in which he said that "he had done all that could be done on earth to obtain justice for their wrongs but they were all, from the President to the Judge, ; determined not to grant justice. "But," said he, "keep good courage, these cases are recorded in heaven, and I am going to lay them before the highest court in heaven. "Little," said she "did I then think he was so soon to leave us, to take the case up himself. And don't you think this case is now being tried? I feel as though God was vexing this nation a little, here and there, and I feel that the Lord will let Brother Brigham take the people away. Here, in this city, lay my dead my husband and children; ; and if so be the rest of my children go with you, (and I would to God they may all go) they will not go without me and if I go, ; I want my bones brought back in case I die away, and deposited with my husband and children." , —