Notes from the Field. By the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. The new Relief Society books for secretaries, treasurers, and teachers will be ready for distribution early in January, and will be sent directly to the stake presidents. Several orders for books have been sent to the general office from wards, but have been returned as this office is not delivering such books to the wards. Mrs. Mattie J. Ballard, president of the Relief Society in the Northern States Mission, reports a very successful visit to the branches of the Church in Montana. Regular Relief Society conferences were held at Spokane and Anaconda. The president of the Spokane branch is Mrs. Amelia Cluff, and the president of the Anaconda branch is Mrs. Annie Amer. At Butte, a reorganization of the Society took place when Mrs. Margaret Boam was sustained as president. At Helena a new society was organized with Mrs. Violet Brazer as President. The branches all show a keen and active interest in the work, and the members are doing all they can to further the same. The Spokane branch is making pillow cases to donate to the cottage for elders, at the Fort Pick Indian Reservation. Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Phebe Y. Beatie were appointed by Governor Spry to attend the 1915 International Peace Congress held at San Francisco. The School of Nursing and Obstetrics is progressing nicely. There has never been a brighter or more earnest class of students in attendance. Most of the members of the class expect to take up the practice of nursing and obstetrics, while several members — — young ladies and mothers are taking the course simply to prepare themselves to be a help in their own homes, and a benefit to society in general On Tuesday, Oct. 19, 1915, President Emmeline B. Wells visited the Willard ward of the Box Elder stake, by special invitation, the exercises being planned entirely in her honor. President Wells was accompanied by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. As this was the regular meeting day of the Society, two sessions were held. At noon the Assembly adjourned to the basement, where a delicious luncheon was served from snowy white tables, decorated with beautiful, fall flowers. Covers were laid for one hundred and twenty. President Wells was greeted on all sides by old acquaintances and friends, and enjoyed the visit thoroughly. She spoke at both sessions, and her remarks were highly appreciated by the 145 members in attendance. At the close of the afternoon session, the visitors were driven to the station, where, with their arms loaded with flowers, they bade their hospitable friends good-bye. In Liberty ward of Bear Lake stake, the women take lunch and spend a day during the holidays with each aged family in the ward. In St. Charles ward, Bear Lake stake, during the year 1914, thirty aged women and widows were entertained at their own homes. The Trenton ward, last year, raised $137.05 for the Belgian relief fund. In the Willard ward, of Box Elder stake, last Thanksgiving, the Relief Society sent Thanksgiving dinners to nine aged people. This ward also sewed twelve days for those in need. Kanab ward Relief Society took full care of one sick woman for four months. — Afton ward Star Valley stake —prepared a Christmas tree last year for their hospital. In South Ephraim ward, twenty women sewed one-half day each for motherless children in the town. In Mt. Pleasant ward, twenty-seven families were remembered at Christmas. In Mt. Pleasant north, eighteen families were remembered at Christmas, making together in this small place forty-five families. The newly reorganized Salt Lake stake Relief Society has a fine choir, under the leadership of that favorite singer, Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas. Reorganizations have recently been made in the Relief Societies of several stakes. At the organization of the new Portneuf stake, Mrs. Dicey W. Henderson was made president. Mrs. Henderson was at the time of the change, president of the Pocatello stake. The office left vacant by this change was filled by Mrs. Emily Gladwin, of Pocatello, Idaho. Davis stake was divided a few months ago into North and South Davis. Mrs. Elizabeth J. Ford who had been the president was retained as president of South Davis, and Mrs. Emma J. D. Strong was made president of North Davis. At a recent special conference held in South Sanpete, President Abigail Shoemaker was honorably released from her position on account of illness, and Mrs. Hannah Christensen was chosen to take her place as president in this thriving stake. Mrs. Florence B. Crittenden of Hoytsville has been made president of Summit stake, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Sarah A. Lewis, who has been a very capable and earnest officer. Mrs. Harriet B. Harker, president of Salt Lake stake for many years, has resigned from this position on account of change of residence. Mrs. Harker was succeeded by Mrs. Hattie Jensen, her former counselor. The Salt Lake stake has always been an active and thoroughly up-to-date stake, and Mrs. Harker has maintained this high grade of excellence throughout. It will be remembered that Mrs. Harker was at one time a very active and efficient member of the General Board. At the reorganization of Liberty stake, Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter was chosen as president. The Liberty stake has been presided over for several years by Mrs. Effie Ensign Merrill, who has recently removed to her old home in Logan. Mrs. Merrill, an active and energetic young woman, achieved unusual results during the short period of her presidency. At a conference held in Ensign stake on November 19, Mrs. Elise B. Alder was chosen president. Mrs. Alder fills the place which was made vacant by the death of Mrs. Margaret Romney. Mrs. Romney had for many years devoted her life and energy to Relief Society work, and her death was mourned by the hundreds she had comforted and befriended. Mrs. Alder is the daughter of Mrs. Louisa B. Benson, who is at the present time, the capable president of the Oneida stake, one of the largest in the Church.