MISCELLANEOUS NOTES.
Peony plants may be divided once in every three years, which will usually give from two to four plants. Two-year-old plants, field grown, from divisions, are the best with which to start a bed of peonies.
The old-fashioned hollyhock will grow in any good garden loam in a well drained location. For fine results, give it a soil made of good limestone loam, enriched with well-rotted horse manure, and a dusting of bone meal in the spring.
Before the discovery of the German mines, wood ashes were one of the main sources of potash. Unleached hardwood ashes contain from five to seven per cent potash. Soft wood ashes are somewhat lower in potash content. Wood ashes that have been leached or exposed to the weather, contain only a small amount of potash, and that only the less available portion—leached ashes contain no available potash or other plant food. Beet sugar molasses is quite rich in potash, and some potash may be expected as a byproduct from this source.
Rose colored sentiment for Christmas basket: I shall give her the gift of always seeing the bright side of everything. That gift will be more to her than beauty or riches or honors. It is not so much matter what color one's eyes are, as what one sees with them. There is a bright side to everything, if people only knew it, and the best eyes are those which are able to see this bright side. — Harriet Beecher Stowe.
A Bed of Petunias. The seed of single petunias may be sown quite early in hot beds or in window boxes, but seed sown in a properly prepared bed will do about as well, except that the flowers may be a few days later. Petunia plants should not be more than eighteen inches apart, as they mass well, and produce a brilliant display that lasts all summer. Care should be taken not to cover the seeds too deep, as they are so very small they are liable to decay if they are planted too deep. Place the seeds on the surface of the earth and press or rub the surface gently with a hoe or board, which causes the seeds to drop among the particles of soil on the surface. This is one of the cheapest but most delightful flower beds it is possible to secure at small cost.
Vegetables contain a considerable amount of protein, in proportion to their bulk, and if one could eat enough, the body would be well nourished with them alone, but our stomachs are not made to accommodate large masses of bulky food, so vegetables must be supplemented by other articles. Vegetables boiled in a large amount of water, which is turned down the sink, lose their most valuable elements. They should be steamed or served in a sauce made of the cooking water, which should be as little as possible.