The Bride's Mother. Nabby Howe. She stood like a half-blown rose, her golden brown hair, her liquid brown eyes, and her shell pink cheeks rising from her velvet white neck like a flower upon its stem. Her white-slippered feet peeped in and out of the filmy laces of her gown, as she moved restlessly, while her mother kneeled before her, adjusting her dress with quick and tasteful fingers. "You know, Mother, I shall never love anybody just like I love you." The mother looked up into the exquisite face upon her, and smiled with misty eyes. "Yes, Mother," went on the tender, laughing voice, "you are the only mother I shall ever have, and I think you are my onliest only." In a few moments, the bride and her mother were released from their pretty toil, and the mother said to her restless daughter, "Sit down, Flora: there is a full hour before your guests will arrive, and I have a story to tell you." Moved at once by the solemn thrill in her mother's voice, the restless girl fluttered down, and nestling on the couch beside her mother, she said seriously, "Is it a happy, story, Mother, for you know I want to be happy today it is my wedding day." ; "Dear child," replied her mother, "it is a story that will make you happy all the days of your life, if you will heed its moral "You are now a young lady, but before you came to this earth I had a very remarkable and stirring experience. I had borne eight children, and I felt convinced that I had done my duty by society and by my children and so I told your father that I should; have no more children. Your father is a very wise man, and when I announced my decision, he made no comment other than to look at me with that piercing glance which, as you know, cuts clear through to the heart. However, I was determined, and although I took no means of prevention, except the very natural and legitimate one — if indeed it is ever natural or legitimate for — women to refuse to have children at least I adopted no criminal methods to carry out my purpose. "Three years from that time, the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated I was chosen as a worker, you know and at one of the; ; first dedicatory services, I met a brother with whom I had been acquainted all my life, but who knew nothing of our family lives, for he had lived in a distant town for a number of years. He came up to me, and, looking straight into my face, said, 'We have had the word of the Lord this morning, Sister.' " 'Oh,' I replied, 'don't you always get the word of the Lord when you are in the presence of the President of the Church?" " 'Yes,' said he, 'but the word of the Lord came this time to you.' " 'What was it,' I asked. "And looking me straight in the eye, he replied 'Any woman: who refuses to have children for her husband shall be cut off, and will wither and die like a broken twig.' "The shock of this announcement was very severe, and I said to myself, 'That is surely the word of the Lord to me.' "A few nights after this, I dreamed that I went over on the Other Side. I saw a personage approaching, with two little boys — one on each side of the angel. I knew them instantly, it seemed, and exclaimed, 'Oh, those are my little boys.' " 'Yes,' replied the angel, 'they would have been, but you refused to have them.' "I must have them,' I replied; 'I am ready to have them now.' " 'No,' he answered, 'you will never have these little boys.' "And now, my darling, you and your little Sister Naomi were born after that time, and no mother welcomed a child more eagerly than I welcomed you. "I tell you this, as a warning, a solemn warning, for your future guidance. Remember my darling that you made your covenants at the altar with your husband this morning to multiply and replenish the earth, and any refusal on our part to keep the commandments of God will sooner or later bring the punishment." With a sob in her throat, the beautiful girl bride caught her mother and murmured, as she clung to her, "Mother, I will re— member I will never forget."
ATTENTION TO SUBSCRIBERS. Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 10 per cent discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents — such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by the agents themselves.