EDITORIAL
.


RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: Susa Young Gates Business Manager: Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. III. JANUARY, 1916. No. 1.
A NEW YEAR RESOLVE.
The icy dawn of New Year's Day brings to most of us the traditions and memories which cling with more or less pleasure, mingled with more or less regret, around this yearly festival. We are inclined to look back over the past year, and in spite of our refusal to be guided by outworn sentimentalism ? to make a few quiet resolves as sign-posts for the coming year. We will be kinder, will visit the sick oftener, minister to the needy, and comfort the bereaved more zealously than we have heretofore done. We will study, learn, read more, acquaint ourselves more fully with the history, the science, the literature of the world. We will practice a more rigid economy, will get out of debt, save a little money ? all these good resolutions flit over the surface of our minds and find more or less lodgment there.
There is a passage in one of the early sections of the Doctrine and Covenants which should burn itself into the breast of every Latter-day Saint who is, or may be, called a Saint. It is found in Section 18, in a revelation given to the Prophet, outlining the mission and ministry of the Twelve Apostles. We are there told, "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God ***** And if it so be," continues the revelation, "that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul, unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father."
One soul! Think of the weight and value of this saying. Think of the bliss which will be ours if even one soul clasps our hand in eternity, and acknowledges that soul's debt before the Throne of Grace. Think also, of the exquisite misery which would overwhelm us if one soul looked us in the face there, and declared that his or her downfall was caused by our idle words, or our evil neglect. Ah, these are New Year thoughts which must give us pause.
When my New Year comes, I shall sit in communion with my own soul, while I question the past and prepare for the future. And the one dominant thought will be: have I helped to save, or have I caused to stumble, one soul during the year 1915? Then quenching my useless regrets, and pleading pardon for my mistakes, there will emerge one vital question: What Can I Do to Save One Soul?
I may do many things: A good word in season, a kind act performed when most needed; and, above all, a strict attention, on my own part, to the laws of the gospel so that my own inner light shall shine brightly ? prayer daily ? all these will help me to help others. Then there is one sure way I may take, one certain path I may tread, that will lead me to this goal of all my desires ? it is the path which leads my willing feet to the doors of the Temple. Here are waiting souls to save ? thousands of them. And if I will attend but one day in the spirit and meaning thereof ? how easily will my prayer be answered, my resolve be accomplished!
And so I sit communing with my New Year resolve, determining that longing shall be replaced by action, resolve by deeds and that I shall redeem at least one soul during the year of 1916.
Wild extravagance in gift-giving is a menace to society. It breeds selfishness and greed and corrupts both those who give and those who receive. Be wise in this, as in all things.