Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony.
First Week, February, 1916.
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE.
SARAH AND HAGAR.
References: Genesis 11:29, 30; 12:11, 20; 16:1, 6; 17:15-22; 18:9-15; 20; 21; 23; Heb. 11; I Pet. 3:16; Gal. 4:22-31.
The character of Sarah, the wife of Abraham, is presented in the Bible in general outlines. If she is to be understood, and loved, however, the student should know much of oriental lore, should understand the nature of Sarah's association with her husband and her household, and should also be somewhat familiar with Hagar's upbringing and Egyptian character. We give all the Bible references to Sarah, and suggest that each of them be read to the class, with the context. If any have a volume of Josephus, or the Book of Jasher, or a good encyclopedia, study them carefully as to the sidelights given of Sarah.
It is natural for those who look upon Abraham's family relations with unsympathetic eyes to allow all their sympathy to go to Hagar, in the events of Sarah's later years. Let us consider, first, however, the story as given us by Moses in the Book of Genesis, and see what Sarah was, as shown by these facts.
Sarah was the niece of Abram ? so we are told by Jewish commentators. She was of superb beauty, supremely intelligent, true to the gospel in the midst of the luxury and temptations around her, in the pagan city of Ur. After her marriage with Abram, she joined him in his wanderings, sharing his toils and his triumphs, as any good wife should. They lived in tents, as do the bedouins of today. She was with Abram when he journeyed down to Egypt, and suggested a way to secure the favor of the Pharaoh through her own beauty and charm. The plan worked, but God punished Pharaoh for desiring Sarah, and so severely afflicted the king, that he felt justified in reproaching Abram for his duplicity in telling a half-truth about Sarah's relationship to him.
The same incident occurred years later ? Sarah still being so beautiful and magnetic that Abimelech ? shepherd-king of Gerar, appropriated her, was stricken nigh unto death, discovered her relationship to Abram, reproached him for his deceit, at the same time offering the subtle reproof to Sarah of a covering of her eyes, showing that she went about unveiled, as did the Assyrian and Egyptian women.
While they were down in Egypt, Sarah acquired an Egyptian bondwoman, Hagar, said by the Rabbis to be a daughter of Pharaoh. Abram returned to his own land, having acquired great riches, but was childless. The Lord, who came to Abram in a vision, promised seed to the grieving couple. At the second announcement, Sarah ? who was past the child-bearing period ? laughed in unbelief at such a statement. But later, she was so anxious to see its fulfillment, that she gave her bondwoman, Hagar, to her husband as a concubine, which was a relation peculiar to ancient, oriental life. Hagar, fiercely proud and jealous of both Abram's and Sarah's love and favor, gradually usurped the rightful position of her mistress, and so cruelly goaded and taunted Sarah, that she chastised Hagar who fled to the wilderness. Here Hagar was met by an angel who told her to return to her mistress and submit herself in good part to Sarah, who had a right to expect obedience and respect from her bondwoman.
Sarah was both wise and magnetic. She was proud and self-willed. But when the voice of authority spoke, she was ready to listen. Impulsive, generous, noble, pure, high-principled, broad-minded, and truthful, she was a queen in her own right. Her husband was the greatest character in the Bible, and she was his true mate. Keturah, no doubt, was acquainted with Sarah, and was married to Abram after Hagar's departure.
Hagar's early life, training, and inheritance, we may infer unfitted her to associate on equal terms with the Semites. She was an Egyptian ? passionately proud, vindictively jealous, and with a personal ambition that stopped at nothing to gratify itself. Might was right in her country, and love and justice were very elastic terms. One sorrows at her cruel sufferings, but out of her story there is one lasting lesson: the cruelty of selfishness. She and her son possessed quick generosity as to worldly matters, with narrow selfishness that wills to gratify selfish love, selfish hate, or selfish ambition, though all else be lost.
The subsequent events ? the birth of Ishmael, the intolerant pride of both Hagar and her son, the birth of Isaac, with the continued abuse of Hagar, and the insolence of Ishmael at the christening of Isaac ? all of these are plainly indicated in the story. Does anyone think Abram would have allowed Hagar to go away with her son unless there had been good and sufficient cause? Would the Lord have counseled him to do so, simply to satisfy a demand of Sarah's? The text does not so indicate. The insults heaped upon the child Isaac by his half-brother Ishmael must have been more than mere boyish taunts.
And Sarah said unto Abram, "My wrong be upon thee; I have given my maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes." How significant is this brief paragraph!
And again (chap. 21:8): "And the child grew, and was weaned; and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned. And Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, which she had born unto Abraham, mocking."
Sarah had a noble pride that would both give and take. Hagar's pride allowed her only to give. She would not receive, nor submit, except under compulsion. Their relations to Abraham did not alter their inborn characters, it only permitted the fullest expression thereof. Reverse their positions, if you can, and thus learn the difference. We love Sarah; we pity Hagar. The children of Israel are the children of Sarah. The Bedouins of Arabia are the descendants of Hagar.
Sarah was not blameless, nor was Hagar without fault. We love the historian who has set down the plain facts, in this story, helping us to see the cruelty of jealousy and the beauty of submission to authority.
QUESTIONS.
Relate the story of Sarah. Why was her name changed? How do we know that she was lovely beyond all women? Who was Hagar? What can you say of the Egyptians? Why did Sarah give Hagar to Abraham? Who was Ishmael? What effect does taunting have upon the spirit of one so assailed? What do you think of the story of Hagar? How can happiness or peace exist in a home where there is contention and jealousy? Why do we think Sarah was noble and good?
LESSON II. Work and Business.
Second Week in February.
LESSON III. Genealogy and Art.
Third Week in February.