An Easter Thought By John Henry Evans The other day I ran upon a capital phrase in an article by William Lyon Phelps. It was to this effect, that many people look upon God as "against us." And in truth this is so, even of persons who have accepted (without sensing it very well) the Christian conception of a universal Father. For it would not bea great hazard to say that probably many of us have grown to manhood and womanhood viewing Deity as a kind of expert Bookkeeper, setting down now in this column our good deed, now in that column our bad ones, and balancing them in the great ledger every evening, with a grim chuckle whenever the balance is in red. Of course, we do not say it this way even to ourselves, for He might overhear us. But we often act on this idea—so little has the much vaunted notion of the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, in nineteen hundred years, got under the Christian skin. Nor is it at all surprising that so many persons should harbor this notion of God deep down in their subconscious selves. For usually, as children, it is not the goodness of God, his loving kindness, his unfathomable love for man, and his incomparable anxiety for our well-being that are held up to our imagination, but rather his power and majesty, his knowledge and wisdom, and his infinity—ideas, all, that impress us with the sense of unapproachableness. And as we grow up we are oftentimes oppressed by the power of the Unseen, as we think, in the whirlwind, in the earthquake, in the devastating wave, and, most of all, in the great leveler death. Besides, if we get in the grip of their teachings, who, without inspiration, seek to "find God by searching," we become imbued with the idea that he is impersonal, being as much in the trees and the grass and the flowers and the far-away stars as in the unchanging heart of man, and so lose all track of God's 
 sympathetic interest in us here below. It is indeed a sad commentary on poor human nature that so many of our ideas should hark back to the Old Testament or to the vain philosophies of the Pagan world. * ok Ok Ox There can be no surer way for the average person to learn of God than to study the pages of the New Testament and the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith. First, however, let me establish a necessary connection. Is Chirst God? This question is answered in the gospels, but not, it seems, with sufficient clearness to preclude doubt in many Christian minds, even in whole groups of Christians. Jesus is there called "Lord of the Sabbath," greater than Solomon and Moses and Abraham, "the Son of the Highest," Creator of "all things," "God with us;" and he is represented as performing the works of God—forgiving sins, creating and preserving all things, bestowing spiritual blessings, raising the dead, and judging the world. He is also endowed by the sacred record with divine attributes, such as eternity, omnipresence, omniscience, omnipotence, unchangeableness, sinlessness. But it remains for modern revelation to put this question forever beyond the pale of controversy, as the following passage will easily show: "I am Alpha and Omega, Christ the Lord; yea, even I am he, the beginning and the end, the Redeemer of the world. * * * Surely every man must repent or suffer, for I, God, am endless. * * * For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent, but if they would not repent, they must suffer even as I, which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain. * * * J am Jesus Christ; I came by the will of the Father, and I do his will." This revelation was given to Martin Harris through Joseph Smith in March, 1830, just prior to the publication of the Book of Mormon. In addition the Prophet himself, to whom the Father and the Son appeared in 1820, in what is called the First Vision, declared that Jesus "exactly resembled" the Father "in features and likeness." And since Christ is God, it would seem, also, that he resembles the Father in personal attributes. So that when we discover the personality and characteristics of Jesus Christ, whether in the New Testament, the Nephite Record, or in modern revelation, we are disclosing also the personality and characteristics of God the Father, whom we worship and to whom we pray. * Of the attributes of Deity so pronounced in the Old Testament —power, majesty, anger, vengeance, fearsomeness, and the rest— there is little, almost nothing, associated with Jesus in the New AN EASTER THOUGHT 169 Testament. It is only after the resurrection that we find Christ giving utterance to the words, "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth; and these are not associated with the exercise of those powers, so as to impress us with a sense of terror. But of the tender aspects of Diety—love, gentleness, human sympathy—there is an abundance. And these qualities are reinforced in those passages of the Book of Mormon that deal with his personal ministry among the Nephites after the resurrection. Indeed, Jesus is here presented in an even greater tenderness and solicitude for the weak and helpless and sinful than in the gospels, for there is an absence, nearly complete, of the sadness, even weariness that seems often to have marked the Master's contacts with the unbelieving Jews. The comparative unsophistication of the inhabitants of ancient America drew out from him some very remarkable manifestations of tenderness and love for man. Let the following passage from the Book of Mormon stand not merely for this statement but also for passages to the same end from the gospels: "Jesus commanded that their little children should be brought. So they brought their little children and sat them upon the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst. And the multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him. And when they had all been brought, and Jesus stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they should kneel down upon the ground. And when they had knelt down, Jesus groaned, within himself, and saith, Father, I am troubled because of the wickedness of the House of Israel." ''And when he had said these words, he himself knelt upon the earth, and behold, he prayed unto the Father. And when he had made an end of praying, he arose. But so great was the joy of the multitude that they were overcome. And Jesus spake unto them and, bade them arise. And they arose. And he said unto them, Blessed are ye because of your Faith. And now behold, my joy is full. "And when he had said these worlds, he wept, antl the multitude bear record of it. And he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them. And prayed unto the Father for them. And, when he had done this, he wept again. And he spake unto the multitude, and saith unto them, Behold your little ones! And as they looked to behold, they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven, as it were, in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them." Accounts of Christ's ministry, both in the New Testament and in the Book of Mormon, are full of passages in which these aspects of his character are depicted. We call this his human side. In reality, however, it is his divine side, because it implies greater knowledge of the hidden springs of action in man, and of his nature than ordinary mortals exhibit, and they are a man's sympathetic understanding of man and his ways, which in turn, calls for and receives deeper compassion. Although we nowhere find Jesus 
 condoning sin in any degree, but rather condemning even the appearance of wrong-doing, yet everywhere. He shows the profoundest concern and love for the sinner. In the words of Joseph Smith, our Savior loves mankind although he hates some of the things they do, not looking upon sin with the least degree of allowance. This last aspect of his nature is revealed in that extraordinary passage about the woman taken in sin: "Early in the morning he came into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down and taught them. "And the Scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in sin; and they set her in the midst, they say urito him, "Master, this woman was taken in sin, in the very act. Now Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned. But what sayest thou?" This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. "But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. "And they which heard it, being convicted of their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last; and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. "When Jesus had lifed himself up and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? "She said, No man, Lord. "And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee. Go, and sin no more." It is clear from the incidents quoted here, which are characteristic, and from many others which might be given, that God is not to be "feared" in the ordinary interpretation of this term, but rather to be sought out when grief and troubles overwhelm us. Even the writers of the Old Testament sometimes rose to this great height of God's character, as for instance when the Psalmist, in that incomparable twenty-third psalm, thought of the Lord as a "shepherd" leading to "green pastures" and the "still waters," sustaining the soul ''through the valley of the shadow of death," as a "rod and a staff" to the halt, and preparing a "table in the presence of enemies" whereat the hungry and oppressed might be banquetted. Nor is God hard to approach. Always his hand is outstretched toward us ready, even eager, to help us at the first signs of desire on our part. Who can imagine a loving mother refusing to aid her distressed or erring boy whom she brought into the world in anguish and joy and tears, and whom she reared with such tender solicitude? Yet the love of the tenderest of mothers and her most affectionate concern for her son are hardness in themselves, compared with the infinite yearning of God for his children.