Peacock Feathers By H, L. Johnston When Peter Newcomb paid off the mortgage on his little farm and showed the recorded deed to his wife, Mary, the world seemed a nice place in which to live. Their daughter, Caprice,-had just graduated from high school, with honors. Since the time Peter Newcomb had made his first payment on the farm, the little colony of Lennox had grown into a fair-sized town. Values had increased to a great extent, Peter's farm along with the rest. It was at an amateur play put on by The Lennox Dramatic Club, of which Caprice was a member, that the first tiny seed of discord was sown in the Newcomb household. Mr. Smithers, a great dramatic critic and owner of a theatre back in New York, while making a pleasure trip across the country, broke his big auto down at Lennox. As he would have to wait for repairs, he took in the Dramatic Club's performance, and at its close was profuse in his praise of Caprice. He was emphatic in his statement, that she should be given a chance to study dramatic art. He promised the Newcombs that he would be glad, very glad, when the course was completed, to give the girl a show at his own theatre. Peter and Mary Newcomb were pleased and proud when they learned that their daughter had attracted so much attention from as great a man as Mr. Smithers, and as Caprice had always been a very lovable child they promised her the big chance for a career and started making sacrifices to send her to school. Two years at a school for dramatic art, recommended by Mr. Smithers, made deep inroads upon the bank book of Peter and Mary Newcomb, but they made the sacrifice to supply the extravagant demands of their daughter without a murmur, although they wondered what she could be doing with so much money. Then, Caprice came home. It was a sad blow to the fond parents to quickly learn that their daughter had absorbed more than a training in histrionic ability. She showed by 'her pretentions that she was weighted down with an over-load. Of vanity and selfishness. The day Caprice came home she started finding fault. Her mother, who had always thought a gingham dress good enough to go shopping in, was crisply reminded that she looked like a tub, while good old father, who considered his blue denims a mark of honor, was told that he reminded the haughty, conceited Caprice, of a Rube supernumerary who took part in a show they had put on at the school of dramatic art. The little adobe home PEACOCK FEATHERS 179 caused her to shudder with horror as she classed it fit only for grain or to nest pigs in. Mary Newcomb took exception to the later classification: "Why Caprice! You ought to be ashamed of yourself to talk that way about the house your mother and father built with their own hands. It is our home, and that is a big word. 'Be it ever?" "Oh! I've heard that old gag before," snapped Caprice. The mother smiled sadly, then asked: "Are you going to the sociable tonight?" "T am not!" "Why not? You used to be crazy to go." "Yes, and I'd be a lot crazier now, if I mixed with that bunch of hayseeds." "Why Caprice! Mr. Peterson called today and asked me if I thought you would come and help them out with a little show the club is putting on. The girl sniffed. "They wouldn't know how to appreciate good acting if they saw it." "You won't go?" astonished. "No! Furthermore, I made my mind up a long time ago, that when I finished school I would make you and father sell off the old farm and take me to the city where I can have a chance to make something out of my training." "Your father will never sell out," replied the mother, sadly, "Gt is the only living he knows.", "Then I go to the city alone. There are producers who would jump to give me a chance." Mrs. Newcomb looked up in alarm. Tears welled into her eyes. She daubed them away and then asked: "What in the world has come over you, Caprice? You were so sweet and unselfish before Mr. Smithers swelled your head by telling you how good you could act. I don't know very much, Caprice, but I know that when a girl starts carrying vanity around in her make-up she is carrying one of the most useless weights in the world." Caprice smiled in contempt, then walked majestically over to the piano. Her fingers started idling over the keys and then charged furiously into Chopin's Polonaise in A Major. She stopped abruptly. "That was very pretty," said her mother. ?What is the name of it?" "Oh! You wouldn't understand it. One must be educated in classical music to understand it." "Play something I know," begged the mother, "play, 'Swanee River.' " 
 Caprice smiled wearily and left the piano. "That kind of stuff makes me sick," she said as she left the room. - For a long time the mother sat, lost in sadness. From time to time she wiped the tears away from her faded eyes and cheeks. At last she pulled herself together and started for the woodlot where Peter was cutting out the winter's firewood. * * * * Arriving at the woodlot, Mary told Peter just how vain and priggish Caprice was. When she mentioned the fact that a demand was to be pressed by the daughter that they sell the farm and move to the city, Peter grinned and said: "Mary, don't you worry about that girl running her old dad off the only place in the world that he cares for. You leave it to me. I know a thing or two about girls that you never figured I know. - Guess I'll be going down to the telegraph office for a spell. Want to send a message to a fellow." "Who pr "Mr. Smithers. The man that started all the trouble. I'm going to make him undo all the mischief he started." "How you going to do that?" Peter Newcomb smiled at his wife and slowly winked one eye. "Isn't Mr. Smithers one of the biggest show critics in the country?" "Yes." "What do you reckon got him where he is?" "Good horse sense, I guess." "You guess right, Mary. He knows human nature like a book. I know just what kind of a man he is, too. I'm going to put it up to Mr. Smithers." Two or three nights later Caprice had it out with her father and mother. That afternoon she had received a letter from the great Mr. Smithers himself, offering her a try-out for a new show they were getting ready for rehearsal. Self-esteem was fairly radiating from Caprice's face and bearing as she laid down the law to her father about selling the farm and taking her to the city. Peter Newcomb picked up the letter from Mr. Smithers and read it. "So you think you can act in his show, do you?" he asked. "Do I think I can? Why dad, Mr. Smithers knows I can. He is simply dying to get me into the cast. Now, are you going to move into town, or do I go alone?" "So you don't like the old farm? And you have never even called on any of your schoolmates since you got back home? Caprice, I really believe that you have the swelled head." PEACOCK FEATHERS 181 The daughter's black eyes snapped with anger, then without another word she flung out of the room and started packing for her trip to the great city. Peter Newcomb raised his hand and motioned for his wife to stay in her chair. "Now don't you worry one bit, Mary. She won't come to any harm. Let her go. I've made all the arrangements by wire." It was at the close of the first rehearsal of the great drama. Mr. Smithers, calm, all eyes and ears for the slightest mistake on the part of his company of players during the rehearsal. Called to his leading lady, Caprice Newcomb. As she walked proudly over to him he motioned to a seat which she took with queenly mien. From where they sat they could see the stage where stage hands were removing props and where a beautiful peacock, a part of the garden scene, used in the last act, was strutting: under a glare of light. He was spreading his tail to its greatest splendor: and, not attracting attention enough from his audience of stage hands, was emitting silly little squawks to call their attention. "Get out of the road, you silly thing," cried one of the stage hands running the bird off stage through the wings. Then, Caprice heard Mr. Percival Campbell, the greatest tragedian in the states say to the comedian, Billy Patchman: "Ah, my friend. For such a very beautiful bird to get the hook and be pulled out through the wings is tragic." "Well, he got what he deserved, didn't he? Trying to hog the whole show and still showing off after the curtain down. You know, Percy, that while he is a very beautiful bird he hasn't as much value as a barn-yard rooster. That wonderful tail of his represents the weight of his vanity; the load, the useless load he is compelled to carry through life. At that, he reminds me of some humans I know?" they were walking away from. The stage now, but Caprice could catch the rest of the sentence?"for instance, that 100 per cent specimen of egotistical vanity, Mr. Smithers calls his leading lady. Did you notice the airs? Oh, boy!" Caprice felt her face flush, then found herself looking into the steady eyes of Mr. Smithers. "Did you hear what they said?" she asked. "Yes, Miss Newcomb. I could hardly help it." "T suppose I get the contract," she added, confidently. "Well, Miss Newcomb, to tell you the truth, I don't think so. In fact, no." "Why Mr. Smithers! How can that be possible?" gasped Caprice. "We are generally plain speakers in the show business, Miss Newcomb, I won't break the rule, now. You're like that peacock 
 they had to run off the stage. Vanity is never a good investment in a leading lady, especially when they are just trying to start out. Vanity makes a poor magnet to draw the money to the box office, also. That's the reason, Miss Newcomb." "Do you mean to say, that I can't act?" asked Caprice, angrily. "Just that." "You are the one responsible, Mr. Smithers. You told me back in Lennox that I could act." "You could, then,' sadly, "but since that time the load of vanity you've taken on disqualifies you for this show. I'm sorry. Good day." Peter Newcomb and his wife, Mary, were just starting to get ready for bed when there came a timid knock on the door and Caprice walked in. For a moment or two she stood looking from one parent to the other, then seeing two shining tears trembling on her mother's cheeks, a sob convulsed her throat as she gathered the mother in her arms and said: "Mother?daddy?forgive me for the way I acted. I've come back to?to?get rid of my peacock?peacock f-f-feathers."