Gifts Lucy Wright Snow "Behold, thou hast a gift, and blessed art thou because of thy gift. Remember it is sacred and cometh from above." There are many God-given gifts given to man by the Spirit of God. To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby," D. & C. 46:12) and also that men may not be deceived by the power of the evil one. Man should seek the best gifts, and should exercise the gifts given him, for in asking and receiving he finds a cooperation with God and places himself in condition to be used by him as an instrument in the furthering of his work; also man places himself on a better footing for working out his own salvation, which will always be administered according to his faith and effort. The Lord is ever ready to bestow his gifts upon those who will seek for them and make consistent use of them. He has said he is bound to bless those who seek him and keep his commandments, (D. & C. 82:10) and who are in cooperation with him and walk in obedience to his laws. His children thus will be able to assist in carrying on his work to perfection, and by exercising their gifts they will be able to prepare themselves for an exaltation in his kingdom, thereby gaining the greatest gift of all gifts?eternal life. (D. & C. 14:7). Some are not willing to receive the gifts that are generously held out to them, and many blessings are lost to them and to those to whom they might minister. (D. & C. 88:33) 'For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift." It is interesting to note the words of the prophet Moroni in his farewell address to the Lamanites, delivered, 420 A. D., just 
 previous to the sealing up of the Book of Mormon records, which 1400 years later he revealed to Joseph Smith; and which were translated by the gift of God. He spoke of gifts as follows: "And again, I exhort you, my brethren, that ye deny not the gifts of God, for they are many; and they come from the same God. And there are different ways that these gifts are administered; but it is the same God who worketh all in all; and they are given by the manifestations of the Spirit of God unto men, to profit them. For behold, to one is given by the Spirit of God, that he may teach the word of wisdom; and to another, that he may teach the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; and to another, exceeding great faith; and to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; and again, to another, that he may work mighty miracles; and again, to another, that he may prophesy concerning all things; and again, to another, the beholding of angels and ministering spirits; and again to another, all kinds of tongues; and again, to another, the interpretation of languages and of divers kinds of tongues. And all these gifts come by the Spirit of Christ; and they come unto every man severally, according as he will." (B. Of M., Moroni 10:8-18.) John Milton prepared himself and sought the best gifts, and received inspiration to produce "Paradise Lost." Solomon sought the best gifts, received them and exercised them. God was pleased with him because he asked for wisdom, and the Lord endowed him heavily. Indeed he is known after centuries of time as Solomon the wise. Joseph Smith sought of God the best gifts, and received the gift of translation with the result that to the world has been given a history of America's ancient inhabitants which had been buried for centuries. After the Church was organized, in 1830, its female members prepared themselves and sought the best gifts, receiving one of these blessings, in 1842, the women's Relief Society. The Lord will reveal truths by the Holy Ghost, the interpreter, promised by the Savior. But they must be sought for.