Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Divisions in Stakes and Wards. Where a stake or ward is divided, the General Board advises that such stake or ward divide the funds on hand at the time of the change, proportionately with the new division. In most cases the funds are divided equally, even though the new group is smaller than the old one. At the October, 1924, conference, President Williams recommended that in case of division the mother stake or ward from which the new group is taken, start the new stake or ward out in business. Jordan Stake. Under the direction of the Jordan stake Relief Society, a Christmas morning program and pageant was given at the Sandy Recreation Hall at 6 a. M. Bells began chiming at 5:30 and the caroling by the "Girls' Chorus" outside the building was most inspiring. The hall was tastefully decorated with the Relief Society and Christmas colors, and hundreds of candles illuminated the building. The pageant which portrayed the birth of the Savior was very instructive and impressive, and the costumes and scenery were in keeping with the theme. The special addresses were given by individuals who had visited Palestine. In spite of the very severe weather, the large hall was crowded by representatives from all parts of the stake who went away filled with the real Christmas spirit and the feeling that they had been well paid for the effort made to be present at this early Christmas hour. Utah Stake. A Christmas pageant in which two hundred people participated, given by the Utah stake Relief Society carried the spirit of good will to the community. Spirit of Christmas was enthroned high above the stage erected in the tabernacle. Under her direction the nations of the world came and showed how Christmas affected their lives and homes. Music appropriate to each nation was furnished by the stake Relief Society choir of 73 voices under the leadership of Allie W. Clark. The concluding incident was the entrance of America representing the "Spirit of Good Will." At her call thirty-five Boy Scouts came and took from her horn of plenty messages of good will for each member of the audience. Mrs. Nellie S. Thornton of the Utah stake Relief Society, Prof. E. H. Eastmond and Miss NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Louise Dastrup, of the Brigham Young University, assisted in staging this successful Christmas entertainment. Christmas Cheer for Indians. Ibapah, Utah. The General Board of Relief Society assisted the teacher of the Goshute Indian School at Ibapah, Utah, in making Christmas cheerful for the group of Indians who live at this sub-agency. There was a Christmas tree and an appropriate program. The teacher in charge wrote the following letter to the General Board regarding the occasion: "I must tell you how much we appreciate the splendid assistance rendered by the Relief Society of the 'Mormon' Church. Please extend to the Board my sincere thanks. Their assistance has given me a very great pleasure, for they have helped to send a ray of sunshine into the sordid lives of the Goshute Indians. I wish you might have seen the eager faces as they received their gifts. The little girls with shining eyes hugged their dollies to their breasts, while the small boys showed their delight by blowing loudly on their harps, and running their toy wagons up and down the room. But none were happier than the large girls who constantly peeped into their mirrors, or the little men who sported their handkerchiefs with the "Let-er-Buck" where all might read. JI am hoping that all good things may come to the Relief Society of the 'Mormon' Church during the coming year." St. George and Parowan Stakes. The Relief Societies of the St. George and Parowan stakes joined the local Church authorities in carrying out a Christmas program for the Indians of southern Utah. Beef, flour, potatoes, etc., were given from the Bishop's Store House, in St. George, for the big Christmas pow wow and feast and the Relief Society women prepared special gifts at their homes for everybody. In Parowan stake special provisions were given liberally by the stake presidency, and the Relief Societies gave toys to the children and gifts to the older Indians. Included among the latter were eight comfy layettes for the prospective mothers. Grant Stake. The following Relief Society ward conference program was used very successfully in 1924: 12:30 p.m. Officers' Meeting. Questionnaire, conducted by Stake President. Ward Organization, Stake Officer. 2:00 p. M. General Session. Preliminary Exercises. (Second song conducted by Stake Chorister.) 
 Presentation of officers and teachers: General officers sustained as a group, without mentioning names. Stake officers sustained as a group without mentioning names. Ward officers, visiting teachers, and class leaders sustained in groups, naming the individuals. President's Report: Ward activities. Items from Annual Report, including comparisons with last year's work. (Report may be given either by president or secretary.) Value of Educational Work in Relief Society, Ward, Officer. Relief Society Message, Stake Officer. Music. Spiritual 'Welfare, Stake Officer. Remarks, Bishopric. Music. Benediction. Mothers' and Daughters' socials have been established in the wards of Grant stake, with a view of bringing mothers and daughters in closer contact socially and spiritually. All the mothers, and the daughters over twleve years of age, are meeting occasionally, with the different women's organizations acting in turn as hostess. The programs consist of not less than three and not more than five numbers, the remainder of the time being devoted to visiting and sewing, and general relaxation. Each person contributes 10c at each social to defray the expense of refreshments. At the first social held in each ward, in September, the ward president of each auxiliary was invited to give a five-minute talk on the winter's work of her organization. It has been suggested that at the socials to be held in May, 1925, that the mothers and daughters entertain the fathers and sons. South Sevier Stake. On January 29, the South Sevier stake Relief Society gave a dancing party in the South Sevier stake pavilion. Preceding the dancing there was special singing by Elsinore ward and a one-act play given by the Annabella ward. A very sociable time was enjoyed by about three hundred fifty people. Some of the wards of this stake have been very successful in gathering their membership dues, the collection being made in connection with a social. The visiting teachers distributed to every married woman in the ward an envelope containing an invitation to the party and a very tactful reminder of the annual dues. Mrs. Trena M. Svedine, a teacher of the Elsinore ward Relief Society, reports that her district has not missed a single visit in the thirty years she has acted as teacher. If she has been unable to visit she has called some one else to take her place. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Raft River Stake. The wards of this stake are so scattered and cover such a large territory that over one thousand miles have been covered by the Relief Society presidency and board members in visiting the different societies. This does not include the number of miles necessary to travel each month to attend monthly union meetings. All of the ward societies in the stake have been visited at least once and some three times during the year. Most of the visiting is done in the summer and fall months, as it is quite difficult to get to the different wards in the winter and early spring, due to inclement weather and bad roads. The stake genealogical society planned a proxy excursion to the Logan temple and the Relief Societies of the stake contributed $73.75 to this cause. The stake social service leader has been very fortunate in getting in touch with the director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene who has promised a health conference in the Spring, as soon as weather and roads will permit. The members are thankful for the Sheppard-Towner provision which has made this possible. In Memoriam Califorma Mission. Mrs. Louisa Jones, former president of the Relief Societies of the California mission passed to the great beyond, October 29, 1924. At the time of her death she was living with her daughter, Mrs. C. M. Kensey, at Mesa, Arizona. Sister Jones was a woman of great faith, keen intellect and unbounded energy and devotion to any cause she chose or was appointed to labor for. She was charming and interesting as a companion and much beloved in the California mission where she traveled extensively in the interest of Relief Society work. Mrs. Jones was born in Illinois, in 1850, and came to Utah in 1875. Her experience in Church work was most varied. At different periods in her life she served in the following capacities: Sunday School teacher, 34 years; Relief Society ward teacher, ward Society president. Relief Society stake secretary, 12 years; stake counselor in Relief Society, member stake Sunday School union board; counselor Y. L. M. I. A.; teacher in Religion Class; teacher, Parents' Class; stake genealogical supervisor and teacher, and president of Relief Societies of California mission. Mrs. Jones was well known also in educational work. She was graduated from the University of Deseret in 1882. In 1897 she was graduated from the kindergarten course at the Brigham Young University. She later went to Thatcher, Arizona, to take charge of the kindergarten work in the L. D. S. Academy there, and also to serve as matron of the school. Mrs. Jones did most effective work in the interest 
 of genealogy, and for two years supervised this work in the California mission. In 1919 she was appointed president of the Relief Society of this mission, but gave up the work in 1921 on account of ill health. For a time she worked in the St. George temple, but when this was possible no longer sne removed to the home of her daughter in Mesa, Arizona. Mrs. Jones was the mother of eight children. Teton Stake. Another pioneer has passed to the great beyond in the person of Martha T. Little on November 25, 1924. She was born in 1843 at Splashburg, Lancashire, England, and first heard the gospel when she was six years old. She emigrated to America in 1854 and remained at St. Louis for one year. Then, together with her mother and sister, she walked much of the way to Salt Lake City. In 1862 she was married to George E. Little, and there were born to this couple fourteen children, seventynine grandchildren, and ninety-eight great-grandchildren. They resided in Salt Lake City until about 1889, then moved to Teton Basin, Idaho, where Mrs. Little was called to be first counselor to the president of the first Relief Society organized at that place. This position she held until September, 1895, when she was called to preside over the first Relief Society organized in the Leatham ward of the stake. In 1909 she was called to be a member of the stake board of Relief Society and held this position until she moved to Salt Lake City to do temple work in 1924. She was laid to rest by the side of her husband in the shadow of the Teton Peaks in the valley she loved so well. Life Henry Van Dyke. Let me live my life from year to year; With forward face and unreluctant soul; Not hurrying to, nor turning from, the goal; Not mourning for the things that disappear In the dim. Past, nor holding back in fear From what the future veils; but with a whole And happy heart, that pays its toll To Youth and Age, and travels on with cheer. So let the way wind up the hill and down, O'er rough or smooth, the journey will be joy Still seeking what I sought when but a boy, New friendship, high adventure, and a crown, My heart will keep the courage of the quest, And hope the road's last turn will be the best. Guide Lessons for June LESSON I (First Week in June) Theology and Testimony THE ABRAHAMIC DISPENSATION Time: About 430 years, beginning about 1921 B. C. And ending about 1491 B. C. PART I?ABRAHAM A. Some LEADING EVENTS IN THE MINISTRY OF ABRAHAM. 1. The Call of Abraham. A. The Necessity for the Call of a Dispensator? Although the Priesthood was still on the earth the world was without a great spiritual leader vested not only with authority but one called and set apart for a great work. Since the confusion of tongues mankind had seemingly been spiritually dazed and in this condition the masses were pushed by the promptings of the evil one into the darkness of paganism. Even the father of Abraham was a fanatical idolator. (See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 1:30; 2:5, 6, 7.) b. The Preparedness of Abraham for the Call? First of all Abraham was fundamentally a high grade intelligence. (See Abraham 3:23. Second, he was fore-ordained for his mission before he was born. "Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the Grand Council of heaven before this world was." (Compendium, p. 285.) Third, he was full of righteous desires: he desired the patriarchal blessing; he desired the Priesthood; he desired knowledge; he desired fatherhood; he desired to be a peace-maker; he desired to be obedient; he desired constant improvement. Fourth, he sought or worked for the things he desired. (See Abraham 1:1, 2, 3, 4.) c. The Three Distinct Features of the Call? The call of Abraham had three distinct features: first, to separate himself from the association of 
 idolators; second, to carry the gospel to a new land and possess that land; third, to furnish the race with a fatherhood through which "all families' of the earth should be blessed through the spread of the gospel by his posterity and the sprinkling of his blood among the peoples of the earth as germs of affinity for the Spirit of the Lord. (See Abraham 2:6, 12.) "There are two Comforters spoken of, one is the Holy Ghost, the same as given on the day of Pentecost, and that all Saints receive after faith, repentance, and baptism. This first comforter, or Holy Ghost, has no other effect than pure intelligence. It is more powerful in expanding the mind, enlightening the understanding, and storing the intellect with present knowledge, of a man who is of the literal seed of Abraham, than one that is a Gentile, though it may not have half as much visible effect upon the body; for as the Holy Ghost falls upon one of the literal seed of Abraham, it is calm and serene; and his whole soul and body are only exercised by the pure spirit of intelligence; while the effect of the Holy Ghost upon a Gentile, is to purge out the old blood, and make him actually of the seed of Abraham." (See Compendium, p. 268.) It seems evident that faith, repentance, baptism, patriarchal blessing, ordinations, sealings are accelerative of the increase of the blood of Abraham within us, and that doubt and direlection in our duties tend to the diminishing of that blood and the fostering of the pagan strains that may lie lurking in our veins. And herein is seen the advantage, physical as well as spiritual, of having the Spirit of the Lord with us. The bread and the water are relatively of little importance in the sacrament service, but the getting and having of the Spirit of the Lord with us, as provided in the sacramental prayers, are of great physical as well as spiritual importance, because the ~ Spirit of the Lord increases the strength of the blood of Israel in us. "That man that has none of the blood of Abraham (naturally) must have a new creation by the Holy Ghost. In such a case, there may be more of powerful effect upon the body, and visible to the eye, than upon an Israelite, while the Israelite at first might be far before the Gentile in pure intelligence." Compendium, p. 269.