The Establishment of the Relief Society in Utah

Louisa W. Luke

HE history of the Relief Society is largely a history of the noble women who gave their all for the establishment of an institution which was founded, under the guidance of the Lord, by the Prophet Joseph Smith himself. The years that followed the organization on March 17, 1842, were, for the saints, crucial ones. During the persecutions the Society must have filled a great need. The call was to give aid and succor to the poor, sick, and needy, and to inspire to good works all the members.

After the death of the Prophet and the fast-moving events that followed, there were no formal meetings but, as Emmeline B. Wells tells us, the spirit of the work went forward and the women kept in their hearts the desire and urge to aid and comfort each other. Especial mention is made of the service rendered by Vilate Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Mary Ann Young, and Elizabeth A. Whitney, all these women having been in the organization under Emma Hale Smith, as president. They had little of material aid, but their loving service and spiritual strength helped many a family over the sorrows and trials at the time of the exodus.

Those were days when the women were very close to each other. They were welcomed by the sick and sorrowful as they went from wagon to wagon on the long trek to the Rocky Mountains. Great spiritual Page 162 strength came to them and they lived close to each other and close to their Father in heaven. There was an exaltation to their lives as they endured hardships and privations, sickness and death, because they were unified in their purposes, in their faith, and in their loyalties to their leaders.

We reap the results of the strength and activity of these men and women in the great commonwealth of today. No people could have developed widespread communities from the desert and the wilderness as they did, had they not had spiritual strength from God, unity in their purpose, and loyalty to each other.

It may seem strange that a few years elapsed between the exodus and the general holding of Relief Society meetings in the new territory. We know that during those years women were carrying on the work. They were aiding the sick, feeding the hungry, teaching the gospel, improving their minds, and all the while carrying on with the hard labor that goes into the establishment of a new community.

The earliest organizations after the saints came West were made in 1851 and 1852, when scattered Societies were established and the sisters came together to assist each other in sewing and nursing, and to clothe the Indians. In 1855, President Young called upon the bishops to organize a Society in each ward. Among others, there is a record of Bishop Ara Hoagland of the Fourteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, organizing a Relief Society September 14, 1856, with Phoebe W. Woodruff as president.

The work was interrupted, however, by the coming of Johnston's Army in 1858.

LIZA R. Snow had found her place among the saints many years before, but these new developments gave her an enlarged opportunity to serve, to express herself, and to use her talents to the fullest. She was a most unusual woman, and in her day there were few with the energy and courage to express themselves in writing and speech as she did.

When the Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, on March 17, 1842, by the Prophet, Eliza was called to the position of secretary. In the succeeding years, she had carried on her duties as a keeper of the records and as a social worker. In 1866, President Young assigned Eliza and Zina D. H. Young the work of aiding the bishops in organizing a Relief Society in every ward and branch in the Church. They traveled over the Territory, enduring the hardships and privations of travel in those days.

This was the real beginning of the work of coordinating and directing Relief Society activities from a central organization. Thus Eliza's life was full of great and varied activity. All her talents for writing, for helping her sisters, and for leadership were developed and put into service. This was preparation for the important position she was to hold in the last years of her life.

On June 19, 1880, the first central organization of the Relief Society was formed, with Eliza R. Snow as president, Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as counselors, Sarah M. Kimball as secretary, and M. Isabella Horne as treasurer. These women had been schooled and tested for many years in the field of service to their fellow men and to their God. Their faith was deep and true. Their spiritual strength was powerful and enduring, and their talents were many.

It was a fitting choice that President Young made at that time and he laid a firm foundation for the modern Relief Society that has grown and become a great power for good in these sixty-seven years since the first central organization was formed. Eliza R. Snow served as president until her death on December 5, 1887. Her whole life of service stands as a monument to her, and her fine writings tell the story of the efforts and achievements of her people and herself.

At the death of Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young was called to the Relief Society presidency. Like Eliza, she came of New England parentage. She, too, bent all her efforts toward the intellectual advancement and betterment of living conditions of her people. In May of 1848 she began the journey to Salt Lake, walking, driving teams, and sharing in all the hardships of the saints at the time of the exodus. She taught the young, inspiring them to learn and to be active in their community.

In 1870, at the call of President Young, she raised silkworms and established silk culture in the new Territory. In June of 1876 she began a course of medical studies which helped fit her for Relief Society work in her own home and in the homes of the community. In the home of Brigham Young she was known as "the doctor." Her interest in home nursing inspired other sisters to come from different settlements to follow her example. Relief Society has ever since had a corps of trained women in the organization to meet the responsibilities and emergencies that present themselves.

Zina was skilled in all types of women's work and was equal to all the requirements made of her. As mentioned above, she traveled, visited, organized, and assisted Eliza in the great beginning of Relief Society in the early days. She was an example of inspiration to women. At a mass meeting of women in Salt Lake City, November 16, 1878, Zina delivered an eloquent impromptu address that stirred and amazed her hearers. One of the reporters said:

"I raised my eyes to her standing just before the table we were using. Suddenly, as I glanced at her, I received a strong electric shock, several gentlemen sitting at my right-hand, clutching the arms of the chairs, started as though they would rise to their feet, their faces burning with the truths they heard, their eyes fixed upon her fearless face and uplifted hands. I can never forget that moment. It was more than eloquence, it was inspiration."

We must marvel at the strength our pioneer women had, and we realize that their power lay in their worthiness and faithfulness; faith so profound that they received great blessings from God. The history of these women stands as a testimony to these facts: that God was with them, that their cause was just, and that their mission was to establish and further great institutions.

Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young, the early Relief Society presidents in Utah, gave to the organization much inspiration and spiritual impetus as well as many practical methods of organization for the carrying out of specific projects which were entirely new to the women of that time. These two leaders, with scores of other early Relief Society leaders, freely gave of their special gifts and talents to the Society. Because of their faith, amplified by their hard work and great courage, these leaders were able to overcome obstacles, to encourage their sisters in the face of frontier hardships, and to advance and direct the cause of the great women's organization.

Much of the inspiration that guided them will continue to influence the women of the Church, and the work that the early leaders have done will always be a source of great strength to the Relief Society and a foundation upon which the Society can grow and improve.

A communication from Germany bearing the following interesting address was recently received at the general offices of Relief Society:

Salt Lake City Nevada, U. S. A.