Sentiment and Sanitation

Grace A. Woodbury

MARCH conference, in the town where I was reared, was, by the ambitious and thorough housewives of the town, preceded by house cleaning. Room by room, from attic to cellar, sorting, sunning, and cleaning were carried on with a zeal almost catastrophic as far as the comfort of the family was concerned. Regardless of how uncomfortable and tiring it was for the older members of the family, it was a time of fun and excitement for the children. It meant bonfires made from the straw that came from under the carpets, dancing on the carpet spread out on the grass, and playing house in the tents made by quilts and blankets hung over the clothesline for sunning.

I recall that the smell of clean straw, freshly whitewashed walls, and bonfire smoke was as much a part of spring to me as were the fragrance of locust and plum blossoms, the croaking of the frogs in the swampy grass, and the meadow larks singing on the pole fence. Along with the happy memories, come those of the days when we cleaned the upstairs playrooms. I have a vivid picture of my mother coming up the stairs with an evaluating gleam in her eye, which meant that she was going to sort over our playthings. We, my two sisters and I, had some young aunts, who gave us many, so we thought, lovely things to play with, old fans, perfume bottles, candy boxes, outgrown dresses and hats; in fact, anything they did not want or need found its way into our playrooms.

Realizing, as we did, that these sorting days were an inevitable part of spring and fall house cleaning, it was always with justified fears of being plundered that we watched mother, from her low stool-throne render judgment as to what should be done with our possessions. "This," she would say of some limp lawn or dimity dress, "isn't fit for anything but dusting and cleaning cloths, and this," holding up a gingham dress or percale apron, "will make a pretty stripe in a carpet. These woolen skirts I will up and use the best part for quilt blocks; the rest I can use in a braided rug."

After our "dress-ups" had been sorted into various heaps on the floor, mother would turn her attention to our efforts at decorating our playhouse. After an appraising glance, she would say, "Hand me those crocheted woolen tidies from your doll bed and little chair—such rubbish—why anyone would want to waste time, eyesight, and yarn on them, is more than I can understand. They harbor moths and must be burned and so must these old hat feathers and artificial flowers. Sometimes we wept over the loss of our treasures, but mother cheered us up by saying, "Don't cry. A month from now you will have a new collection," and we always did.
 
Years later when I had the responsibility of deciding what to save and utilize and what to burn or give to the junkman, I realized that my mother had a "price above rubies" because of her ability to keep from being moved under with bags and boxes of unused and unusable articles. If I have fallen short of living up to her training it is because, so she said, I didn't have a good old wood cook or heating stove handy where things could be burned as soon as they became useless.

With our grandmothers and mothers, who had to make their carpets, rugs, and quilts, the saving of every scrap of cloth and old clothing was a necessity. However, to use their own words, they liked to keep their carpet rags and quilt pieces worked up; then they did not become a burden.

That procedure is as good today as it was then, and even though we do not have to make rag carpets in order not to have bare floors, woven rag rugs still have a place in our homes. They can be made to fit in with any color scheme, they can be put in a washing machine and cleaned as readily as a cotton house dress or apron. Old petticoats, shirts, house coats and house dresses, aprons, and rayon articles make very satisfactory rugs. Better rugs are made of all kinds of material. Obviously, a rug made of wool and cotton will not wash as well or weave as evenly as an all-wool or all-cotton one. However, cotton goods and rayon underwear go well together.

IT is really surprising how many odds and ends, in addition to old clothing, the average housewife has collected in drawers and boxes, that far, but drawers and boxes

crocheted rugs. Those faded sofa pillow covers, old feather ticks, scarves, and table runners that you have used too long, faded cretonne drapes and old bedspreads, yes, those old car seat covers can be used, and bathrobes and even socks. I shall tell you more about them shortly.

Can't you just visualize a lot of those attractive rugs that cost so little, if, in your spare time, you do your own rug cutting and sewing? If, however, you do not have any spare time and do not care for rag rugs, give your material to the Relief Society or to Deseret Industries. Let us not get "snowed under" without a thaw in sight.
Now about the socks. During the war I found a large box full of worn-out ones that for some reason, long since forgotten, I had saved. Our four boys were all away from home, helping in various ways to win the war. Those dozens of old socks brought back many, shall we say poignant and lively memories. Since I couldn't bear to burn the socks, I decided to cut and sew them and make a rag rug. In one afternoon I started at the top of the sock and cut around and around it until it was one continuous length of a yard or more. It was gratifying to find how quickly enough socks to make a rug could be cut and sewed. Thanks to the yen that the two younger boys had for bright striped and patterned hosiery, the rug has some stripes that shine out like a good deed in a naughty world, and make a happy contrast with the more subdued browns, tans, grays, and blues of the older boys' more conservative preference in socks. Perhaps that is carrying sentiment too far, but I am proud and fond of this rug, and may as well admit that I am still saving socks, but only the ones made of wool, cotton, or a mixture of wool and cotton.
Perhaps mention should be made that silk and rayon stockings also make attractive rugs. I made one from my own and my two daughters' stockings in which the entire stocking except the heel and toe was used and the top hem was cut open. I braided the material in much the same method as is used in braiding a round basket. The rug, when finished, is to describe it dramatically, a symphony in tan.
There are moments in my life when I wonder, yes, even worry about that old proverb, "As a twig is bent, the tree is inclined." I know that as a "twig" I was bent in the right direction regarding the disposal of articles that should be remodeled into something useful, repaired, given away, or burned. Yet, as a "tree" I am inclined to keep things stored away that there's, if they did break in, would not care to steal, and in which moths find refuse.
Generally speaking, and I realize that I am rationalizing, most people do collect things—everything, in fact, from buttons to bric-a-brac. Then there are those who just let things collect. At house-cleaning time many of these last mentioned collections are given to the junkman, but often one does not have the moral fortitude to part with a collection of things, either because of sentimental value, or because one has hopes of doing something with them some day.
I know whereof I speak, for there is in my collection a case of empty, gallon, cracked, otherwise damaged cans that have been in the basement for five years in the expectation that some day I am going to cover them with some leftover drapery material and make them into a useful footstool. Since hope is supposed to spring eternal even in a collector's breast, I am justified in my future plans, because once there were three cases of cans in the basement and I did make three footstools from them, but this spring I am determined that the city dump shall no longer be deprived of their radiance. I have some newer ideas about covering and lining five-gallon roof paint cans to serve the dual purpose of a hassock and a place to keep one's shoes. My collection of things that collect also contains a sad flatiron, clamsy, heavy, and slow, but it brings back memories of many childhood-hours, where one of the children always gave this riddle about sad flatirons: "Three-cornered, square, black as a bear, tell me this riddle or I'll pull your hair."
Then, of course, I think of the dresses, aprons, and ruffled petticoats that were ironed with it. Not long ago someone told me that just such an old sad iron would make a dependable doorstop, and suggested some improvements designed to make it fit more artistically or usefully into its new role. I cannot remember just what it was that she mentioned. It might have been adorning it with a petunia or a hollyhock. But, with or without the decoration, I must make use of that iron.
Once I owned a collection of nicked, cracked, and otherwise damaged dishes, but that was before Bob L., a friend of our boys, came