[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for December - Lesson I - Theology and Testimo]
Guide  Lessons  for  December 
LESSON  1 
Theology  and  Testimony 
(First  Week  in  December) 
LIFE  AFTER  DEATH 
The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  full  of  hope  for  all  who  leave 
this  sphere  of  existence  and,  with  one  exception,  go  into  other 
spheres.  The  revelations  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  supple- 
ment and  classify  the  revelations  in  the  Bible  concerning  life  after 
death,  in  a  marvelous  manner. 
The  Christian  world  have  only  a  vague  conception  of  the 
other  world,  gleaned  from  the  sayings  of  the  Savior  and  his  dis- 
ciples, and  the  symbolic  pictures  of  John  the  Revelator,  on  the 
Isle  of  Patmos.  To  begin  with,  the  Christian  world  does  not  be- 
lieve in  pre-existence  as  we  do.  They  believe  that  we  did  not  have 
a  conscious  existence  before  we  came  here.  To  them  vast  reser- 
voirs of  spirit  material  exist  somewhere,  but  is  unorganized,  un- 
developed. Our  elders  preach  pre-existence  as  a  fundamental 
truth.  Pre-existence  is  clearly  shown  in  the  Bible,  if  we  only 
have  the  key  of  revelation.  Moses  spoke  of  "The  God  of  the 
spirits  of  all  flesh,"  in  Numbers  16:22;  27:16.  The  Lord  asked 
Job,  "Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth  ?"' 
38:3-7.  The  Lord  tells  Jeremiah,  1:5.  "Before  I  formed  thee 
in  the  belly  I  knew  thee."  The  Savior  says  (John  16:27)  that 
"I  came  out  from  God."  Again  (16:28,  30)  he  says,  "I^^came 
forth  from  the  Father."  Paul  argues,  (Hebrews  12:9)  "Shall 
we  not  much  rather  be  in  subjection  unto  the  Father  of  spirits 
and  live?"  The  Preacher  tells  us  (Eccles.  12:7)  that  "the  spirit 
shall  return  unto  God  who  gave  it." 
But  the  Christian  world  spiritualizes  these  sayings.  They 
do  not  believe  in  the  personality  of  God  himself,  and  refer  to 
Christ  as  God  made  incarnate. 
It  is  true  that  the  revelations  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
have  percolated  all  through  the  Christian  faiths,  and  they  have 
been  greatly  changed  and  modified  from  their  original  statements 
and  beliefs.  The  Conference  of  Christian  Workers,  recently  held 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  quotes  Dr.  H.  H.  Powell,  of  San  Francisco,  as 
saying :  "The  mind  of  man.  within  the  last  century,  has  made  the 
sharpest  turn  in  the  history  of  civilization,  which  many  orthodox

606'  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
church  people  fail  to  recognize."  He  said  further,  "If  one  ac- 
cepts the  actual  physical  resurrection  of  the  body  there  can  be 
no  vital  objection  to  any  of  the  absurdities  of  'Mormon'  theology 
concerning  life  after  leaving  this  earth." 
Sir  Oliver  Lodge,  England's  great  scientist,  has  become 
converted  to  spiritualism,  and  has  published  a  book  containing 
many  articles  purporting  to  be  communications  received  by  him 
through  a  medium  from  his  son  who  was  killed  during  the  great 
war.  Many  other  men  and  women  have  become  spiritualists,  in 
one  form  or  another.  They  are  tired  of  the  vague  heavens  of  the 
Christian  world,  they  want  something  definite  and  clear.  But 
Latter-day  Saints  do  not  need  to  drink  from  the  muddy  water  of 
spiritualistic  communications,  in  order  to  learn  of  the  conditions 
and  status  of  spirits  on  the  other  side  of  the  veil.  It  is  always  un- 
wise to  dabble  with  spiritualistic  doctrines  and  practices. 
We  are  told  by  Paul  that  things  earthly  are  a  type  of  things 
heavenly.  We  know  that  there  is  organization  over  there,  and 
a  Church  of  Christ  to  which  Saints  belong,  there  as  they  did  and 
do  here.  There  are  many  spirits  outside  the  Church  there  as 
there  are  people  here,  outside  of  this  Church.  Our  social  and 
religious  association,  however,  should  be  and  will  be  confined  to 
those  who  belong  to  the  Church  over  there,  as  it  is,  practically, 
here.  We  may  and  shall  try  to  teach  all  men  and  women  the 
truth,  but  we  should  remember  one  thing:  the  Priesthood  rules 
there  as  it  does  here,  and  only  under  the  authority  and  protection 
of  the  Priesthood  will  we  be  saved  and  happy  there  and  here. 
The  Prophet  describes  these  conditions  in  the  "Gems"  found 
in  the  Compendium.  Read  the  statements  there  under  the  follow- 
ing headings : 
The  Punishment  of  the  Devil— May  21,  1843.  The  World 
of  Spirits.  Spirits  of  the  Just — October  9,  1843.  A  Visitor — 
January  21,  1836.  Translation— October  5,  1840.  The  Millen- 
nium—December 30,  1842.  Salvation— May  17,  1843.  All  Rev- 
elations are  Spiritual.  The  Contention  in  Heaven.  A  Key.  Ob- 
servation on  the  Sectarian  God. 
Teachings  of  President  Brigham  Young: 
"Spirits  are  just  as  familiar  with  spirits  as  bodies  are  with  bodies, 
though  spirits  are  composed  of  matter  so  refined  as  not  to  be  tangible  to 
this  coarser  organization.  They  walk,  converse, and  have  their  meetings; 
and  the  spirits  of  good  men  like  Joseph  and  the  elders  who  have  left  this 
Church  on  earth  for  a  season  to  operate  in  another  sphere  are  rallying 
all  their  powers,  and  going  from  place  to  place  preaching  the  gospel, 
and  Joseph  is  directing  them,  saying,  'Go  ahead,  my  brethren,  and  if 
they  hedge  up  your  way,  walk  up  and  command  them  to  disperse.  _  You 
have  the  Priesthood,  and  can  disperse  them,  but  if  any  of  them  wish  to 
hear  the  gospel,  preach  it  to  them.'  Can  they  baptize  them?  No. 
What  can  they  do?    They  can  preach  the  gospel,  and  when  we  have  the

GUIDE  LESSONS  6b7 
privilege  of  building  up  Zion,  the  time  will  come  for  saviors  to  come 
up  on  Mount  Zion.  Some  to  those  who  are  not  in  mortality  will  come 
along  and  say,  'Here  are  a  thousand  names  I  wish  you  to  attend  to 
in  this  temple,  and  when  you  have  got  through  with  them  I  will  give 
you  another  thousand.'  And  the  elders  of  Israel  and  their  wives  will 
go  forth  to  officiate  for  their  forefathers,  the  men  for  the  men,  and 
the  women  for  the  women." — From  the  Contributor,  Vol.  X,  page 
321.) 
"What  will  be  the  occupation  of  Mary  Freeze  in  the  world  to 
come?  What  will  she  do  there?  We  are  told  that  she  will  not  be  idle. 
She  could  not  be  idle.  In  God's  plans  there  is  no  such  thing  as  idle- 
ness. God  is  not  pleased  with  the  thought  of  idleness.  He  is  not 
idle,  and  there  is  no  such  thing  as  inertia  in  the  providences  and  in  the 
purposes  of  God.  We  are  either  growing  and  advancing,  or  are  retro- 
grading. We  are  not  stationary.  We  must  grow.  *  *  *  Xhe 
principles  of  everlasting  growth  and  development  te.nd  to  glorj^  to 
exaltation,  to  happiness,  and  to  a  fulness  of  joy.  What  has  she  been 
doing?  She  has  been  working  in  the  temple,  among  other  things. 
She  has  been  working,  also,  as  a  minister  of  life  among  the  young- 
women  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  *  *  =>= 
She  has  been  laboring  to  bring  others  of  the  daughters  of  Zion  to  the 
same  standard  of  knowledge,  faith  and  understanding  of  the  gospel 
of  Christ  that  she  herself  possessed.  *  *  *  What  can  you  conceive 
of  greater  than  this?  To  my  mind  there  isn't  anything  so  great  and 
so  glorious  in  this  world  as  to  labor  for  the  salvation  of  the  living  and 
the  redemption  of  the  dead.  We  read  of  the  Savior  going  to  the 
spirits  in  prison  and  preaching  the  gospel  to  them  when  his  body  lay 
in  the  tomb.  That  was  a  part  of  the  great  mission  he  had  to  perform. 
He  was  sent  not  only  to  preach  the  gospel  to  those  dwelling  in  mor- 
tality, but  he  was  fore-ordained  and  anointed  of  God  to  open  the 
doors  of  the  prison  house  to  those  in  bondage  and  to  proclaim  the  gos- 
pel to  them. 
"I  have  always  believed  and  still  do  believe  with  all  my  soul  that 
such  men  as  Peter  and  James,  and  the  twelve  disciples  chosen  by  the 
Savior  in  his  time,  have  been  engaged  all  the  centuries  that  have  passed 
since  their  martj^rdom  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  proclaim- 
ing liberty  to  the  captives  in  the  spirit  world  and  in  opening  their 
prison  doors.     *     *     * 
"Who  is  going  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  women?  Who  is  going 
to  carry  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  hearts  of  the  women 
who  have  passed  away  without  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel?  Well,  to 
my  mind,  it  is  a  simple  thing.  These  good  sisters  that  have  been 
set  apart,  ordained  to  the  work  called  to  it,  authorized  by  the  author- 
ity of  the  holy  Priesthood  to  minister  for  their  sex,  in  the  House  of 
God  for  the  living  and  for  the  dead,  will  be  fully  authorized  and  em- 
powered to  preach  the  gospel  and  administer  to  the  women  while  the 
elders  and  prophets  are  preaching  to  the  men.  The  things  we  ex- 
perience here  are  typical  of  the  things  of  God  and  the  life  beyond  us. 
There  is  a  great  similarity  between  God's  purposes  as  manifested  here 
and  his  purposes  as  carried  out  in  his  presence  and  kingdom.  Those 
who  are  authorized  to  preach  the  gospel  here  and  are  appointed  here 
to  do  that  work  will  not  be  idle  after  they  have  passed  away,  but  will 
continue  to  exercise  the  rights  that  they  obtained  here  under  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  to  minister  for  the  salvation  of  those 
who  have  died  without  a  knowledge  of  the  truth."  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith.— Gospel  Doctrine,  pp.  577-582.

608  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
When  our  dear  ones  question  us,  or  are  in  mourning-  let  us 
comfort  them  with  these  extracts  from  modern  revelation,  for  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  the  only  people  teaching  the  truth,  con- 
cerning the  other  side.     Let  us  study  truth. 
QUESTIONS 
1.  Explain    the    doctrine    of   pre-existence? 
2.  What  does  the  Christian  world  believe  about  heaven? 
3.  What  do  you  think  about  heaven?    Why? 
4.  Why  is  Church  organization  needed  over  there? 
5.  What  will  be  your  occupation  in  heaven? 
6.  Why  is  spiritualism  an  unsafe  doctrine? 
7.  What  does  the  Prophet  say  about  the  world  of  spirits? 
8.  If  possible  read  the  "Teachings  of  Brigham  Young,"  found 
in  the  April,   1920,   Utah   Genealogical   Magazine. 
9.  Quote  from  President  Smith's  vision  in  regard  to  the  de- 
parted. (See  Relief  Society  Magazine,  Dec,  1919;  Improvement  Era, 
December,  1918.) 
LESSON  II 
Work  and  Business. 
(Second   Week   in   December.) 
LESSON  III 
Literature. 
(Third  Week  in  December.) 
Emily  Hill  Woodmansee. 
It  is  reported  that  when  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  was 
asked  to  name  his  favorite  hymn,  he  said,  "I  am  not  certain 
that  Emily  Hill  Woodmansee's  hymn,  'Ulphold  the  right'  is  not 
my  favorite."  Later  we  learned  from  members  of  President 
Smith's  family  that  "I  know  that  my  redeemer  lives"  was  his 
favorite  hymn. 
While  we  do  not  doubt  this  latter  statement  in  the  least,  we 
feel  equally  certain  that  "Uphold  the  right"  was  one  of  his  favo- 
rite hymns. 
Emily  Hill  Woodmansee  was  naturally  spiritual  minded; 
she  was  one  of  those  persons  who  from  her  very  childhood  hun- 
gered and  thirsted  after  righteousness.  In  very  tender  years  she 
pondered  much  in  her  childish  way  over  the  eternal  destiny  of 
the  human  family.

GUIDE  LESSONS  609 
She  was  twelve  years  of  age  when  the  gospel  message  first 
came  to  her.  It  was  brought  by  her  cousin  Miriam  Slade,  whom 
she  later  accompanied  to  a  Latter-day  Saint  meeting  with  great 
eagerness.  At  the  meeting  she  heard  the  things  she  greatly 
longed  to  hear,  and  to  use  her  own  words  was  converted  in  the 
same  manner  as  those  on  "the  day  of  pentecost."  The  joy  of 
that  day  never  left  her,  it  lives  in  practically  all  her  hymns.  No 
after  factor  appears  to  have  loomed  up  to  her  with  the  same  sig- 
nificance as  the  fact  that  the  gospel  had  been  restored.  She 
writes,  "Never  shall  I  forget  that  day,  surely  it  was  the  turn- 
ing point  of  my  whole  life."  Thrilled  as  she  was  by  all  she  had 
heard,  she  failed  to  impress  her  parents  with  the  necessity  for 
her  immediate  baptism,  consequently,  while  she  attended  meet- 
ings, and  made  constant  contributions  to  the  Church,  she  did 
not  enter  the  waters  of  baptism  until  she  was  sixteen  years  of 
age. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  hymn  book  contains  six  h\inns  from 
the  pen  of  Emily  Hill  Woodmansee. 
Before  she  left  her  native  country  one  of  the  elders  blessed 
her,  and  in  the  blessing  promised  her  that  she  should  write  both 
prose  and  poetry.  The  existence  of  these  hymns  in  the  hymn 
book  is  evidence  that  his  promise  was  fulfilled ;  yet  her  hymns 
are  only  a  few  poems,  selected  from  a  rather  large  group  of 
poems  that  bear  her  name.  "Come,  Saints,"  and  "Oh,  blest  was 
the  day,"  embody  in  their  thought  content  the  message  of  the 
restored  gospel,  impregnated  with  the  fullest  measure  of  joy 
and  gratitude. 
The  "Day  of  redemption"  calls  to  mind  the  persecution  of 
the  Saints  after  entering  these  valleys.  Like,  "O  ye  mountains 
high,"  it  will  preserve  the  emotions  of  that  period  of  stomi 
and  stress  through  which  the  Saints  went  after  coming  to  the 
west.  "Resting  now,"  is  a  favored  funeral  h}^^ln,  written  at  the 
departure  of  some  sister,  a  friend  of  the  author,  whose  identity 
we  have  not  been  able  to  find. 
Emily  Hill  Woodmansee's  name  should  be  revered  by  all 
Latter-day  Saint  women,  for  she  has  written  a  hymn  setting  forth 
the  work  and  spirit  of  the  first  great  woman's  organization  of  the 
Church,  the  Woman's  National  Relief  Society.  It  is  doubtful 
if.  any  other  organization  in  the  Church  has  been  so  singled  out 
for  such  special  honor  by  the  compilers  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
hymn  book.  It  is  a  great  compliment  to  the  organization,  also 
to  the  author  of  the  hymn : 
Inspired  from  above  the  Father  of  love 
Formed  the  daughters  of  Zion's  great  organization. 
Its  purpose  indeed  is  to  comfort  and  feed