[Vol8 | October 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for December - Lesson III - Literature - Emily]

LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in December. ) Emily Hill Woodmansee. It is reported that when President Joseph F. Smith was asked to name his favorite hymn, he said, "I am not certain that Emily Hill Woodmansee's hymn, 'Uphold the right' is not my favorite.' Later we learned from members of President Smith's family that "I know that my redeemer lives" was his favorite hymn. While we do not doubt this latter statement in the least, we feel equally certain that "Uphold the right" was one of his favorite hymns. ? > Emily Hill Woodmansee was naturally spiritual minded; she was one of those persons who from her very childhood hungered and thirsted after righteousness. In very tender years she pondered much in her childish way over the eternal destiny of the human family. She was twelve years of age when the gospel message first came to her. It was brought by her cousin Miriam Slade, whom she later accompanied to a Latter-day Saint meeting with great Eagerness. At the meeting she heard the things she greatly longed to hear, and to use her own words was converted in the Same manner as those on "the day of pentecost." The joy of that day never left her, it lives in practically all her hymns, No after factor appears to have loomed up to her with the same significance as the fact that the gospel had been restored. She writes, "Never shall [ forget that day, surely it was the turning point of my whole life." Thrilled as she was by all she had heard, she failed to impress her parents with the necessity for her immediate baptism, consequently, while she attended meetings, and made constant contributions to the Church, she did not enter the waters of baptism until she was sixteen years of age, The Latter-day Saints hymn book contains six hymns from the pen of Emily Hill Woodmansee. Before she left her native country one of the elders blessed her, and in the blessing promised her that she should write both Prose and poetry. The existence of these hymns in the hymn book is evidence that his promise was fulfilled; yet her hymns are only a few poems, selected from a rather large group of poems that bear her name. "Come, Saints," and "Oh, blest was the day," embody in their thought content the message of the restored gospel, impregnated with the fullest measure of joy and gratitude. The "Day of redemption" calls to mind the persecution of the Saints after entering these valleys. Like, "O ye mountains high," it will preserve the emotions of that period of storm and stress through which the Saints went after coming to the west. "Resting now," is a favored funeral] hymn, written at the departure of some sister, a friend of the author, whose identity we have not been able to find. Emily Hill Woodmansee's name should be revered by all Latter-day Saint women, for she has written a hymn setting forth the work and spirit of the first great woman's organization of the Church, the Woman's National Relief Society. It is doubtful if. Any other organization in the Church has been so singled out for such special honor by the compilers of the Latter-day Saints hymn book. It is a great compliment to the organization, also to the author of the hymn: Inspired from above the Father of love: Formed the daughters of Zion's great organization, Its purpose indeed is to comfort and feed 
 The honest and poor in distress and in need, Oh! The daughters in Zion, the friends of the poor, Should be patterns of faith, hope and charity pure. Mrs. Woodmansee's two best known hymns are "Uphold the right," and "When dark and drear."' "Uphold the right," is justly popular, due largely to the spirit of steadfastness and courage breathed in every line. There is little unity of thought in the hymn, so that a study of it from the thought content side will not yield very great satisfaction. Its chief merit is on its emotional content. When one gets through reading or singing the hymn one may not have added much to one's thought accumulation, but one can hardly escape imbiding a spirit of determination to stand for the right, and do the right, regardless of foes from within or without. The ability to write terse epigramatic lines expressing the thought in such concentrated language as to create memory gems is a talent sought after and coveted by most writers. Such talent Mrs. Woodmansee possessed, as witnessed in the following quotations from "Uphold the right," "No coward can be called a man? No friend. Will friends betray. Note how they toil whose aim is spoil, Who plundering plots devise. Can honor mate with treacherous hate? Can figs on thistles grow? Left handed fraud let those applaud Who would by fraud prevail. "When dark and drear," is perhaps, from most points of view, the best hymn from the pen of Mirs. Woodmansee. No doubt the music set to it by the well known composer, Jos. J. Daynes, has much to do with the favor in which it is held by many people; nevertheless, it has much merit apart from the music. It is not superior in its emotional content to "Uphold the right," but it preserves the unity of the theme throughout: When dark and drear the skies appear, And doubt and dread would thee enthrall, Look up, nor fear, the day is near, And Providence is over all. From heaven above, his light and love God giveth freely when we call, Our utmost need is oft decreed, And Providence is over 'all, With jealous zeal God guards our weal, And lifts our wayward thoughts above; When storms assail life's bark so frail, We seek the haven of his love. And when our eyes transcend the skies, His gracious purpose is complete, No more the night destracts our sight? The clouds are all beneath our feet. The direst woe that mortals know Can ne'er the honest heart appal Who holds this trust?that God is just, And Providence is over all. Should foes increase to mar our peace, Frustrated all their plans shall fall, Our utmost need is oft decreed, And Providence is over all. Faith in God, and abiding confidence that no matter what the odds, God will bring us safely through, is the dominant note of this hymn. We hear much today of optimism. Helen Keller has written a book on optimism. Surely it is due Emily Hill Woodmansee that we take into account the splendid optimism of her hymns, noticeable in such hymns as "Uphold the right," "The day of redemption," "When dark and drear the skies appear." Particularly is this fact noteworthy when we call to mind, to use the words of a sister poet, "the deepning trials that thronged her way." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS, 1. Give a brief sketch of the life of Emily Hill Woodmansee. 2. Select some lines from "Come, Saints," that indicate that Mrs. Woodmansee was rejoicing over the fact that the gospel had been restored. 3. Do you know anything about her life showing that she very much appreciated the restoration of the gospel? 
 4.What is the name of the hymn written to the National Woman's Relief Society? (a) By whom was this organization effected, and what was the time of organization? 5. Read the chorus of this hymn very carefully and select the ideas embodied in the chorus that are in harmony with the purpose of the National Woman's Relief Society. 6. Read this hymn in its entirety to the association. 7. Read carefully "Uphold the right," and select from the hymn the material, whether pertaining to the thought content, or the style content, that you value personally. 8. What experience have you had in your life that would lead you to believe with Mrs. Woodmansee that "Providence is over all'? 9. In the light of the many trials through which Mrs. Woodmansee passed, how do you account for her splendid optimism? 10. Select some gems from Mrs. Woodmansee's hymns that you would be glad to retain as memory gems.