[Vol14 | November 1927 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Dedication of the Canadian Temple Helen Kimball Orgill]
THE CANADIAN TEMPLE Dedication of the Canadian Temple By Helen Kimball Orgill We are including in this issue an article on the dedication of the Canadian temple written by Helen Kimball Orgill.

The article came too late to be included in the number devoting space to the Canadian temple, and so we are publishing it while the peoples' thoughts and feelings are centered on the dedication of the Arizona temple, believing that it will prove interesting to our readers.

During the last few months the Canadian press has had considerable to say concerning the "Mormons" and their latest built temple.

Among other comments, one widely circulated prairie paper stated that they were an unusually religious people.

These words were indeed verifiedduring dedication week, for a certain Sabbath solemnity seemed to permeate the crowds who had come to see and hear the ceremonies performed at Cardston.. Sunny Alberta was at its best all week.

The many hundreds who traveled by automobile were given a real pleasure trip, for the roads were never better and the prairie breezes had forgotten to blow.; Each Church member brought to the temple a card whereon was printed an invitation to attend the dedication and at what particular time.

These were signed by the respective bishops.

The appearance of snowy, white-clad sisters, stationed at intervals within the building to direct the crowds, seemed to blend beautifully with the artistic simplicity of the temple. _ For one was struck forcibly with the repression of all osten- "DEDICATION OF THE CANADIAN TEMPLE 549 tation or show in the mural painting and other decorations.

Indeed only a culture-loving people would delight in the effect that was created.

The Latter-day Saints, as a whole, left the dedication services at Cardston, indeed filled with the "Bread of life," for a spiritual feast was there spread which many a one had never partaken of before.

There were tears shining in more than one eye at the appearance of our revered and beloved president whose countenance seemed to shine with the light within.

It was the first time many had seen him since his visit here years before as an apostle.

For with the struggle against the rigorous elements of a northern climate, as well as the periodical droughts, very few have been able to attend the semi-annual conferences at Salt Lake City very regularly.

And those who are privileged to have this blessing could scarcely understand the thrills which passed through the beings of the Saints in Canada at the sight of the large representation of leading brethren and sisters who attended our president on the trip.

To hear the inspired voices of two or three apostles, or other leading brethren, as well as a sermon from President Grant at the same meeting was an experience long to be remembered.

And the striking note referred to concerning the decorative scheme was also noticeable in the services.

So many months had the occasion been looked forward to that an outsider would have expected a little pomp or sentimental emotion to be exhibited.

On the contrary the speakers gave no trace of prepared oratory, from the president, who knelt in humility before the altar to offer the dedicatory prayer, to the speakers.

All were simple exponents of truth, but one felt the power behind their words. - The key note of all the sessions naturally was salvation for the dead; and the wonderful blessings whichthe living were to receive, through the blessings of the temple, were dwelt upon.

The timely words of counsel, given as they were within the hallowed walls of the temple of God, sank deeply into the hearts of the listeners.

An unusual drama might be written, depicting the wistful dreams which have been woven with the building of the temple.

The living as well as the departed have looked forward to its completion with yearning hearts.

And there is every reason to believe that many of our dear ones who have gone before also took a keen interest in the happenings of dedication week.

The edifice is now finished, and with its completion, a spirit of permanency and contentment will pervade the homes of the Saints in Canada, such as has never before been experienced.

As sure as the Lord liveth his blessings will flow in at our doors.
