She Let Her Light So Shine Edith Smith Elhott Member of Relief Society General Board HE Salt Lake City Council of Women chose 1943 to be a banner year in the lives of women, the year to select new members for their Hall of Fame. Twice before they have made an occasion to honor women who have been outstanding in the community. This year the nominations were made by organizations affiliated with the Council, and later the voting by club presidents or delegates resulted in the choice of seven women who have given service unsolicited to their community in various fields of progress. The members of the Relief Society were delighted to have their President, Amy Brown Lyman, recognized. Her life has been one of continual contribution to the welfare of her fellow men. Other women selected for the same honor were: Dr. Maud May Babcock, Judge Reva Beck Bosone, Mrs. W. F. Core, Mrs. Arthur E. Graham, Mrs. R. W. Fisher, and Mrs. Lula Greene Richards. The Council employed various means to acquaint the public with the wonderful contributions made by those they honored. Beginning March 11, 1943, a unique series of radio programs was presented. Each day for seven days, a fifteen-minute program was broadcast over radio station KSL which gave interesting glimpses into the lives of the new members of the Hall of Fame. The series was capably ditected by Louise Hill Howe of KSL. Priscilla L. Evans, member of the General Board, had charge of gathering the material to be presented PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN AND MASTER CANDLE SYMBOLIC OF ACHIEVEMENTS RECOGNIZED IN HER ELECTION TO THE HALL OF FAME for Mrs. Lyman. Mrs. Lyman's biographical sketch was given March 18, 1943. An interesting account of the achievements of our beloved President clearly indicated why she was selected for-this award. The evening of March 20, 1943, the Salt Lake City Council of Women further honored their selectees at a large public reception in the Junior Ballroom of the Hotel Utah. In the receiving line were Mrs. Ed F. Shepherd, president of the Council, Mrs. Emily S. Stewart, reception chairPage 309 310 man, Mrs. Grant Gregerson and Mrs. Junius Fisher, assistants to Mrs. Stewart, and the honored women. The reception lasted for one hour, during which hundreds of friends took advantage of the privilege to congratulate the guests of honor. Many state and civic officials were among those who called. President and Mrs. Heber J. Grant paid honor to the occasion by attending the reception, as did other Latter-day Saint Church officials. A large banquet in the Lafayette Ballroom followed. The reception. Approximately 300 dinner guests greeted the famous women as they entered and took their places at the speaker's table. A program followed the dinner. Mrs. Stewart welcomed those assembled. She introduced the program chairman, Mrs. Irma Felt Bitner, who outlined the events to follow. The introduction to the program was made by Council President Mrs. Ed F. Shepherd. She briefly and graciously outlined the outstanding characteristics of each of the seven elect ladies. At the completion of her talk, playlets or skits were presented from the stage in the ballrooom, depicting phases of interest from the lives of those honored. The General Board of the Relief Society took charge of the skits for President Amy Brown Lyman and Mrs. Lula Greene Richards, the first editor of the Woman's Exponent and an active participator in Relief Society endeavor. The literary committee of the General Board, under the chairmanship of Mrs. Rae B. Barker, arranged the skit for Mrs. Richards. Mary Grant Judd wrote and directed it, emphasizing her lit erary gifts, spirituality, and charm. Edith Smith Elliott was chairman of the committee to arrange the playlet narrating Mrs. Lyman's gifts and attainments. The skit, a collaboration by Mrs. Elliott, Mrs. Vilate Raile, and Mr. Francis Urry of KSL, was built around the following paragraph taken from Mrs. Lyman's autobiography, "In Retrospect": Our home, a one and one-half story adobe house, was lighted with kerosene lamps and candleslamps for downstairs and candles for upstairs. The candles were molded by my Mother's own hands. As we ascended the stairs each evening, a mark on the candle indicated how long we could study or visit or play before we retired. Can't we all picture little Amy Brown eager to crowd as much development as possible into the time that the flame of the candle could shed its warmth and light? The miniature drama opened with the stage very simply set. On the stage left front was a microphone. At the right front was a small oldfashioned table and armchair. On the table was a lighted candle in a candlestick. In the center at the back of the stage were some ragcarpeted stairs, and on each side of the stairs were tall seven-branch candelabra holding eighteen-inch white tapers.. After a brief introduction by the narrator, Helen Ann Young of KSL, the spotlight was thrown off the left of the stage. While a string trio played "Lead Kindly Light," Amy Kathryn Lyman, a granddaughter of President Lyman, appeared carrying a large book representing her grandmother's autobiography. She was dressed in pale pink chiffon which emphasized the beauty of her blonde SHE LET HER LIGHT SO SHINE hair and fair skin. She stood before the microphone and said: "Reading from the autobiography of my grandmother, Amy Brown Lyman, I came upon this paragraph." She then read the paragraph referred to above. While she read, Mrs. Lyman's daughter, Mrs. Margaret Lyman Schreiner, came onto the stage dressed as Mrs. Lyman's mother. She sat in the chair by the oldfashioned table. Four children came in next and gathered around Mother Brown who went through the motions of lighting the candle. In pantomime she explained the mark on the candle, kissed each child goodnight and sent them up the ragcarpeted stairs, and then went off the stage. Three of the children were Richard, John, and Gretchen Schreiner, grandchildren of President Lyman. The fourth, Shauna Stewart, played the part of little Amy Brown at about the age of twelve years. Following this episode, Amy Kathryn mused: The idea intrigued me. I visualized my grandmother as a little girl, in a gray linseywool dress, her dark hair combed smoothly from her face. In my mind I could see her eyes fastened on the mark her mother had made on the candle she carried, and I know she was hoping it would burn slowly that she might get as much reading done as possible. Again and again I thought of her letting a brother or a sister light a candle from hers, and of the uncountable times she has let others light theirs also. I thought of the dark corners into which she carried her lighted candle. Then suddenly I knew it was because she carried a "candle," because she shared her "light" with thousands of others that she is a great and noble woman. In fancy through the years I seem to see her as she goes about lighting many 311 candles to increase the ever-glowing brilliance of the lightthe torch first placed in her hands by Deity and kindly parents. At this point, little Amy Brown appeared coming back down the stairs with a lighted candle in her hand and began to light the tapers in the tall candelabra, each representing the light that Mrs. Lyman has shared in different fields of progress. As each candle was lighted, Amy Kathryn recited the accomplishment which the candle represented: 1. As a homesteader she shed her light in the desert, helping to make it blossom as the rose. 2. She did volunteer service at Hull House with Jane Addams. 3. She shared her knowledge with others in the field of teaching. 4. Her home is a place of gentleness, culture, refinement, and hospitality. 5. As a legislator she used rare judgment. 6. She fosters fine arts in her family and community.: 7. She has programmed intelligently for the underprivileged at American Fork. 8. She served nine years as an officer in the National Council of Women. G. Grandmother was a delegate six times to the conventions of the International Council of Women. 10. A pioneer in social welfare, nationally and internationally. 11. She has given generously of her means, time, and talents in patriotic endeavor. 12. As a missionary in Europe she spread the light of Christianity. 13. Established the "Amy Brown Lyman Loan Fund" to help girls with their education at the Brigham Young University. 14. Crowning the activities of her life's work of service, she presides today over the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saintsmembership 115,000 members. (Continued on page 347)