LESSON IV (Fourth Week in January) Social Service
PLANNING A FAMILY BUDGET
A family's economic security is dependent not only on the nature and the amount of the income, but also on the manner in which the income is expended. Some parents rear a large, healthy, well-educated family on an income which is "next to nothing." On the other hand, there are persons, with fairly moderate incomes, who are always in debt, and who suffer much mental distress and perhaps actual privation because of their unsound financial status. The management of the family earnings is as important as supplying the income, in maintaining satis-
factory living conditions and in achieving desirable economic security.
The management of the income is usually the responsibility of the mother. A general family agreement, however, usually determines some of the more important decisions, such as the choice of house or neighborhood, or the length of the educational period of the children. But planning the expenditures, according to the family standard, is the task of the home maker. Her efficiency in planning a budget, in weighing the various needs, and in making the frequent decisions when conflicts arise between individual desires and the family resources, are all important in maintaining a successful home. Her failure to disburse the family funds wisely often leads to general discouragement, discontent, and family instability.
The first factor in planning the expenditures of an income is its distribution. There are certain physical essentials of living that must be provided?shelter, fuel, food, clothing, and certain incidentals that may be designated "higher life." On a small income, a large proportion will be needed for the first four items. Any budget, of course, varies in different neighborhoods and communities, and varies in individual families according to the ages, the degree of health, and the educational standards of the members. In a budget for a minimum income, however, there are not great variances. For an average family, with a limited income, the rent will be about twenty percent, the food forty per cent, clothing twenty per cent, fuel ten per cent, leaving the other ten percent for higher life?church contribution, education, and recreation. As the income increases, the amount devoted to travel, recreation, education, etc., makes the last item a larger part of the budget.
If a family with a small income is spending too great a proportion for rent, or for clothing, or for food, it is obvious that the corrective measures must be applied to the part of the budget. After a proper rental (or taxes and upkeep) has been determined, the items of clothing and food should be studied. A woman who is skillful with the needle can do much to keep the clothing allowance within reason, while one who has not learned the lesson of taking a stitch in time, and who depends on the shops and the seamstress for all the household linen and family apparel, will find her expenditures all out of proportion. Some determination, and some lessons in needlecraft, may be the means of making the income cover the family needs.
A knowledge of comparative food values, of balanced diets, and of the preparation of nutritive dishes are essential to every housewife. Not only is an understanding of dietetics a factor in budget control, but it is also essential to the healthy development

of the members of the family. The habits of depending on "package goods" and canned foods is undesirable from both a dietary and financial viewpoint. Often, too, when a family's diet is restricted to heavy, solid foods, lacking an adequate amount of milk, fats, and vegetables, the children as a result suffer serious physical ailments. A malnourished child, who is listless and catches cold easily and who is not keeping up with his grade at school, is not necessarily suffering from the lack of food. More than likely the difficulty is that he eats too much?literally "all the time"?rather than at regular intervals. Or it may be that his diet lacks some essential element, or that the foods given him are poorly combined. If appealed to on the grounds of the children's health, a mother, who is convinced that her ideas of menus and cooking are satisfactory, can often be persuaded to introduce more nutritious dishes into the family diet. By a few home demonstrations, by the circulation of pamphlets, or by neighborhood classes, much important dietary information can be disseminated to the good of many families.
Reference: Household Management, Florence Nesbitt?or any available text book on budgets and dietetics.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Why is it necessary to proportion an income?
2. Name some ways that a clothing allowance can be reduced.
3. Discuss some practical ways of reducing a food budget.
4. What are some of the results of a poor diet?
5. Plan a minimum budget for a family of six, in your community? For a person living alone?
Teachers' Topic for January
HEALTH IN THE HOME
Note: We feel that nothing could be more vital for teachers' topic, during 1925, than little chats on the general health of the community.
QUARANTINE LAW
A. Duty of every mother to protect other children as well as her own. B. The justice of the law should be developed in every Latter-day Saint woman's heart. C. The health of the community should be safeguarded by D. It should not be necessary to have ordinances enforcing this law; but, as we have them, let us see that they are obeyed.
Every