[Vol11 | November 1924 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Blessings in Disguise Orson F. Whitney]

Blessings in Disguise
By Orson F. Whitney, of the Council of the Twelve
Our greatest blessings often come in disguise. The experiences that gratify selfish longings are not the ones that do us the largest good. Those that involve privation and sacrifice are the most beneficial. Growth and progress depend more upon hard than upon soft conditions, and the tribulations suffered in this "vale of tears" are among the most effective agencies employed by Providence for our education and advancement.
"Sweet are the uses of adversity," for when rightly used it becomes the parent of wisdom, and such precious qualities as patience, faith, fortitude and humility spring from it as naturally as flowers from fertile soil. Tragedy, not comedy, is the great educator; pain, not pleasure, the leading part in the drama of human development.
"'Tis sorrow builds the shining ladder up, Whose golden rounds are our calamities."
Sickness is generally regarded as a calamity, and yet it may have its advantages. Frequently it is a means of recuperation, giving to the overworked mind and body opportunity for needed rest. It rejuvenates one mentally and physically. President Heber C. Kimball once said to President Joseph Young, who had just recovered from a protracted illness and was out among his friends once more: "Brother Joseph, you would have been dead by now, if it had not been for that sick spell."
Sickness and sorrow are good eye-openers, too. They add to our store of knowledge. They show us who our friends are.
"It is not when riches and splendor surround us, That friendship and friends can be put to the test; 'Tis but when affliction's cold presence hath bound us, We find which the hearts are that love us the best.
For friends will fawn At fortune's dawn, When the breeze and the tide bear us steadily on; But when sorrow o'ertakes us, Each false one forsakes us, And leaves us to sink and to struggle alone."


Who has read but to admire Emerson's great essay on "Compensation?" A few paragraphs from that masterpiece of profound thought and eloquent expression are here presented:
"The changes that break up at short intervals the prosperity of men, are advertisements of a nature whose law is growth. Evermore it is the order of nature to grow, and every soul is by this intrinsic necessity quitting its whole system of things, * * * as the shell-fish crawls out of its beautiful but stony case, because it no longer admits of its growth, and slowly forms a new house. * * * Then there can be enlargement, and the man of today scarcely recognizes the man of yesterday."
"We cannot part with our friends. We cannot let our angels go. We do not see that they only go out, that archangels may come in. We are idolaters of the old. * * * We do not believe there is any force in today to rival or recreate that beautiful yesterday. * * * We cannot find aught so dear, so sweet, so graceful. But we sit and weep in vain. The voice of the Almighty saith, 'Up and onward forevermore!'"
"And yet the compensations of calamity are made apparent to the understanding also, after long intervals of time. A fever, a mutilation, a cruel disappointment, a loss of wealth, a loss of friends seems at the moment unpaid loss, and unpayable. But the sure years reveal the deep remedial force that underlies all facts. The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat later assumes the aspect of a guide or genius; for it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life, terminates an epoch of infancy or of youth which was waiting to be closed, breaks up a wonted occupation, or a household, or style of living, and allows the formation of new ones more friendly to the growth of character. It permits or constrains the formation of new acquaintances, and the reception of new influences that prove of the first importance to the next years; and the man or woman who would have remained a sunny garden flower, with no room for its roots and too much sunshine for its head, by the falling of the walls and the neglect of the gardener, is made the banian of the forest, yielding shade and fruit to wide neighborhoods of men."
In another part of that splendid essay the following sentences are to be found:
"Our strength grows out of our weakness. Not until we are 'pricked and stung and sorely shot at, awakens the indignation which arms itself with secret forces. * * * Blame is safer than praise."
Particularly appealing to me is the thought that the power to feed and shelter the unfortunate is itself an outgrowth of misfortune; the misfortune bringing forth the power. A near at
BLESSINGS IN DISGUISE 549
hand illustration is furnished in the experience and example of such men as President Joseph F. Smith and President Heber J. Grant. Had they been pampered in the lap of luxury, the course of their lives might have been far different. But they were left fatherless in their childhood, each in the care of a widowed mother, and had to struggle for the success they achieved, the most glorious part of which, to my thinking, is the power they developed to encourage and assist others.
Adversity and affliction, when patiently borne, purify the heart, broaden the mind, and make the soul more tender and charitable. Without a sense of suffering, there could be no such thing as philanthropy, no such thing as charity. What would the world do without men and women who have suffered? To whom do we go, in times of trouble, for advice and consolation? Is it to those who know nothing of hardship, whose souls have been dwarfed by self-indulgence, whose shallow lives are one continual round of pleasure and dissipation? No, we would as soon think of seeking shelter under a willow or a sagebrush, in the midst of a raging storm. But here is a giant oak, whose roots have struck deep and deeper into the soil, and whose branches have spread wide and wider, because of the tempests that have swayed them and swept through them, breaking off dead limbs, perchance, but imparting new vigor, new strength to the live ones. There we find shelter and protection.
Even so, amid calamity's storm and stress, we apply to men and women who have "come up through great tribulation," who are able, out of the wealth of their experience, to minister for our uplift and welfare. To them we go for counsel, for comfort, for the help which they, under God, are alone qualified to give. They are his instruments for that purpose.
Thank the Lord for tribulations, for losses and disappointments, for blighted hopes and thwarted ambitions, for sorrow, sickness, and even death when timely! They are blessings in disguise, and will reveal themselves as such, if we will but wait long enough to see unfold the purpose of the All-Wise in permitting them. For they could not come without his permission. Satan could not afflict Job until the Almighty said, Thou mayest. We are not in Satan's hands. The devils are subject to the Lord's will, and contribute in spite of themselves to the carrying out of his benevolent designs.
There is a great and wise purpose in all that we are called upon to endure. Man came upon earth to suffer as well as to enjoy, to learn by experience of contrasts, the lessons that cannot be learned otherwise or elsewhere. We taste the bitter, that we may know the sweet; we have sorrow, that we may find joy—the fulness of joy, which is synonymous with celestial glory.


It is by opposition that we progress, and by contrasts that we become wise. Wisdom grows upon the tree of Experience, planted in the soil of human suffering. And we knew all this before we came here, knew it "when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy" not over the prospect of suffering, but over the glorious outcome, the predestined fruit of that suffering. We knew it would be a blessing, a wonderful blessing, though it might come in deep disguise.
Joseph Smith, long before Ralph Waldo Emerson (if I read history aright), taught the great doctrine of Compensation. The Prophet was lying in a dungeon, in the mob-ridden state of Missouri. His people had been despoiled and driven, and he, with a few faithful friends, had been thrown into prison, where he spent the dreary winter of 1838-9. In the agony of his soul he called upon God for deliverance, and was answered in these precious words:
"My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine affliction shall be but a small moment.
"And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes."
"If thou art called to pass through tribulations; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea;
"If thou art accused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring * * * and thou be dragged to prison, and thine enemies prowl around thee like wolves for the blood of the lamb;
"And if thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good.
"The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he?"
Yes, Jesus himself descended below all, that he might experience and comprehend all. And in so doing he but followed in the footsteps of his heavenly Father. For did he not say: "The Son doeth nothing but what he hath seen the Father do?"
Then, says the Prophet Joseph, commenting upon these marvelous