IN SPANISH have access to the same material and inspiration as do the sisters near the headquarters of the Church. They need it. Their families need it. Much emphasis is — being placed, on the home, home teaching of the gospel and the responsibilities of the parents in bringing up their children in righteousness. In the will be found many articles, stories, and suggestions that will have enrichment value, not only for Relief Society members and the Relief Society program, but that will interest and _ inspire their families. We hope that the Spanish sisters will make every possible effort to get this Magazine into every home in their branches, and that each will read and use it. We think that enlightenment and increased faith will result, and that ways and means will be made clear to the sisters of the Relief Society whereby they can participate in "caring for the poor and saving souls." Kind words are like the flowers That brighten the shadowed day And lift the heart to gladness Above the troubled way. When unkind words are spoken That wound the tender heart, God in his infinite mercy Will love and strength impart. The fragrance of life, is measured -By deeds of lasting worth— Each act a flower of goodness To brighten the path of earth. 407 w At the opening session of the 136th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1966, James Alfred Cullimore, a devoted and experienced Church leader, was appointed as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, making a present total of twelve Assistants to the Council. Elder Cullimore was bom in Pleasant Grove, Utah, January 17, 1906, and was graduated from Pleasant Grove High School. At Brigham Young University, he was president of the senior class, and president of the student body. In these positions his outstanding qualities of leadership and his remarkable executive ability were evident. He received his Master's degree from the New York University School of Retailing. He was married in the Salt Lake Temple, June 3, 1931, to Grace Gardner of Spanish Fork. They have two daughters, Luella and Nancy, and a son Kelvyn. Church service began at an early age for Elder Cullimore and has continued throughout his life. During his mission in California (1925-27), he was made a district president. He was Timpanogos Stake Sunday School superintendent, branch president 408 Elder James Alfred Cullim in Sioux City, Iowa, and in th Oklahoma City Branch. Later, h became district president in th West Oklahoma District, Centr, States Mission, a position he hel for nine years. In 1960 he w sustained as the first presiden of Oklahoma Stake. Shortly afte this appointment, he was called to be president of the Central British Mission, where he served for two and a half years. During his presidency, many outstanding accomplishments were made, including the completion of the building of the Merthyr-Tydfil meetinghouse in time for its dedication by President David O. McKay, whose mother and her ancestors had lived in that area of Wales. Also, during his presidency, the distribution of The Book of Mormon increased from fifty to 300 a week, converts increased, and the gospel was made known to thousands by a vigorous and well-directed program which was carried to many new Elder Cullimore and His Family ' Standing at the back: Elder Cullimore; seated at the left: Grace ' Gardner Cullimore; at the right: Nancy Marie Cullimore; inset at left: Kelvin Henry Cullimore; at right: Grace Luella Cullimore Payne (Mrs. Cities and villages where Church organizations had not previously functioned. His great ability in leadership and management has served him well in business. He has been associated with Gimble Brothers of New York City and also Mandel Brothers in Chicago. In Oklahoma, during the past twenty years, he has established one of the largest furniture firms in the state, and, in 1960, he was given the Fourth Annual Alumni Achievement Award by the New York University School of Retailing Alumni Association. Elder Cullimore's outgoing and optimistic personality invites conDale Payne). Fidence and respect, and his influence among his associates in Church and community activities is uplifting and inspirational. The General Board of Relief Society and the Relief. Society members in the stakes and missions of the Church are pleased and gratified that Elder Cullimore has been made a General Authority, and they welcome his gracious and accomplished wife. In his address as a new General Authority, Elder Cullimore expressed humility in his calling and said "... Only by virtue of the strength I receive from the Lord can I become a good servant." EDITORIAL it must have been an impressive occasion that Thursday afternoon 124 years ago when eighteen sisters attentively listened to their beloved leader, the Prophet Joseph Smith, say, ''l now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages—and all who shall hereafter be admitted to this Society must be free from censure and be received by vote.'' These were women residing in what was then a western frontier town of the United States called Nauvoo. The sisters had accepted the restored gospel of Christ and had within them a-burning desire to do their part in the work of the Church. They believed that if they could be formed into a Ladies Society whereby their means and efforts might be combined, they could more effectively serve, particularly with regard to the Nauvoo Temple. They had sought an organization at the hands of the Prophet, and under the inspiration of the Lord, he had organized them under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood, a unique organization for women in all the world. Addressing the eighteen women assembled on that memorable occasion of the founding of Relief Society, Elder John Taylor, who had accompanied the Prophet to the meeting, said that he ''rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the laws of Heaven... And to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner.'' He praye that "'the blessings of Heaven might rest on this institution henceforth." As the years have moved along, hundreds of thousands of women residing in many parts of the world have rejoiced that this Society was organized. They have seen it move forward, blessed of Heaven. Through the years the sisters of Relief Society have given loyal, devoted, and unselfish service to the Priesthood. They have ministered to the downtrodden; they have nursed the sick and fed the hungry; they have sustained those whose souls were weary. Through the Society the graces of lovely womanhood have been nurtured, and the arts and skills of glorious motherhood have been developed. Talents have been enlarged upon and put to worthy uses. Volume Number 6 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Coun Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer The sisters have been blessed individually and collectively, as they have labored in the fulfillment of the purposes set for the Society by God's chosen prophets. It was a blessed day, indeed, when, as an aid in furthering the work of this organization, the Society was given a Magazine of its own, ''to be edited, managed, and published by the General Authorities of the Society.'' This publication has served as the voice of Relief Society. It has helped to unify and standardize the work. It has served as a lesson manual for the educational courses. It has been an outlet for the literary aspirations of Latter-day Saint women. Its contents have been animated by the spirit of the gospel and its gospel teaching articles by Priesthood and Relief Society leaders have strengthened faith and built testimonies. In the Centenary of Relief Society, issued on the hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, we read, ''This Magazine belongs by right to every woman of the Church.'' While language barriers stand in the way of full realization of this at the present time, a great step forward has been made as the Magazine becomes available in Spanish for the many Spanish-speaking sisters throughout the Church. The General Board rejoices that this instrument which has proven so valuable to the English-speaking sisters and such an important factor in the strength of their Relief Societies, may now intimately touch and influence the lives of the Spanish-speaking sisters and reach into their Relief Societies as a bulwark of strength. The advent of The in the Spanish language is a history-making event. May it bless our beloved Spanish-speaking sisters. May it bless their homes. May it bless their families. May it be a truly effective instrument in helping the Spanish-speaking Relief Societies to move forward in an even more glorious manner, is our earnest prayer. —B. S. S Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J.