James Alfred Cullimore of Oklahoma was appointed an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. In his address on Saturday, the day before Easter, President McKay called upon the world to recognize and worship Jesus and acknowledge his literal resurrection. General Church Conference When Christians throughout the world have this faith coursing in their veins, when they feel a loyalty in their hearts to the resurrected Christ, and to the principles connoted thereby, mankind will have taken the first great step toward the perpetual peace toward which we daily are praying.... The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints declares to all the world that Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. No true follower is satisfied to accept him merely as a great reformer, the ideal teacher, or even as the one perfect man. The Man of Galilee is... Literally the Son of the Living God. President Hugh B. Brown declared a powerful testimony of the truth and reality of the resurrection of Jesus. We reaffirm our faith in the Bible as the word of God. We believe its teachings, its doctrines, its definitions and revelations of an omnipotent and omniscient God. The fact that man was created in his image confirms our faith that he is living and personal. He is our Eternal Father, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Jehovah of the Old Testament, and the promised Messiah. We proclaim the preexistence and divine nature of Jesus the Christ, the purpose of his earth life, the reality of his resurrection.... President N. Eldon Tanner spoke with great concern about the growing tendency throughout the world to deny the existence of the living God. The issue, then, becomes quite clear, that it is not what kind of God man can believe in, but what kind of man does the Living God reach.... In order for life to have a purpose... It is necessary that we be willing to admit the possibility that God does exist.... All down through the ages prophets have borne testimony that they have talked with God.... Hundreds of thousands of individuals scattered throughout the world today can bear testimony that their prayers have been answered in many ways. President Joseph Fielding Smith devoted his remarks to calling attention to the "'signs of the times.'' He said: Shall we slumber on in utter oblivion or indifference to all that the Lord has given us as warning.... Many things have happened during the past one hundred and thirty-six years to impress faithful members of the Church with the fact that the coming of the Lord is near. The gospel has been restored. The Church has been fully organized. The Priesthood has been conferred upon man. The various dispensations from the beginning have been revealed and their keys and authorities given to the Church. In a heartfelt blessing to all the saints, at the close of conference, President McKay in speaking his appreciation to the saints for their loyal and willing response to calls for service in extending the work of the Lord at home and abroad, gave a scriptural admonition: ''... Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness." 413 . - —_ % Prime Minister Indira Ghandi of India in March became the first woman head of a country to visit the President of the United States. The Ambassador to India, Chester Bowles, was the first representative of a foreign power to call on the new Prime Minister, and on that occasion extended to Mrs. Ghandi an invitation from President Johnson to visit him in Washington. The President is arranging for the United States, in cooperation with other nations, to send about twelve million tons of food to India to help feed her starving millions. The payment will be in Indian money (rupees), which will purchase products from India. Crown Princess Beatrix of Holland, twenty-eight years old, on March 10th married Claus von Amsberg, thirty-nine years old, a former German diplomat. They hope to stem the tide of disapproval among some Dutch people, because of his nationality, by serving Holland loyally and wisely. Peggy Fleming, a seventeen-year-old high school student from Colorado Springs, U. S. A., with her ''flawless'' skating won the woman's world _ iceskating championship in Davos, Switzerland, on February 27. Frances Carter Yost, prolific writer for The and other Church and non-Church publications, has just published a new book "That They Might Know Thee"' (