MEXICO CITY beautiful cities in the world has taken shape. Off to the southeast on a clear day can be seen the snowy summits of the ''guardian" volcanoes, Popocatepetl and Ixtacihuatl. Industrialization has produced ever-increasing traffic on the boulevards. Handsome hotels are so crowded that reservations for visitors are necessary, sometimes weeks ahead. And in the heart of the city The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is now permitted to own property and to build chapels. On October 8, 1879, a group of brethren was called by President John Taylor to go to Mexico City. This was in response to the appeal of a man who requested the elders. Moses Thatcher, a leader, assisted especially by James Z. Stewart and Brother Meliton G. Trejo, a convert who served as interpreter, arrived in Mexico City by way of New Orleans and Vera Cruz. Eight days later, on November 23, 1879, a branch of the Church was organized. In 1889, when the elders were withdrawn from the country owing to the prevailing unrest, the branch had 250 members. In 1901 the mission was reopened under the supervision of John Henry Smith, Anthony W. Ivins, Helaman Pratt, and Ammon M. Tenney. UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF MEXICO One of the many dramatic mosaics which face individual buildings in the university complex. Before any elder had ever entered Mexico City, a horesback company had penetrated the country from El Paso, Texas. The company left Salt Lake City in 1875. They spent nine months under the stars. Although they had been warned not to go into Mexico, they rode as far as Chihuahua by way of El Paso. And Brother Pratt, being without fear, continued on, to visit the Yaqui Indians in northern Mexico, who | still follow their ancient and primitive ways. In 1913, the elders had to withdraw once more from Mexico City. Brother Pratt corresponded with the Church members and visited the branch in the capital city whenever possible. Today, the Church has a school system comprising several elementary schools, and one high school in Mexico City. Whenever possible, Mexican-born teachers and administrators are appointed. And now, instead of being taught entirely in Spanish, the schools are taught one half in English. The bishops of the wards are Mexicans. In the capital, a stake is organized with several wards. The spirit. Of brotherhood contributes to a highly favorable kind of unity, and so we find a welcome in this city of international culture. THE FLOATING GARDENS OF XOCHIMILCO Tourist-laden, flower-bedecked barges create a gala atmosphere for the ancient canals. festival of the dolls South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Eighth Ward Bazaar The "Raggedy Ann Tree" at the left is a peach tree bough sprayed with blue paint and ornamented with colorfully dressed dolls—boy dolls and girl dolls—clown dolls and storybook dolls. Fancy blue dolls hold court at the base of the tree, and others decorate the red "schoolhouses" represented at the left and right in the 'tree picture. A close-up of one of the schoolhouses is illustrated in the righthand picture. Such bright eyes the dolls have, such plentiful hair, such elegant clothes. One hundred twenty "Raggedy Ann"' dolls were made for the bazaar, as well as sixty sets of "Ann and Andy." Twice as many dolls could have been sold. Luella W. Finlinson is president of South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society and Myrna J. Giles is president of the Eighth Ward Relief Society. Counselors in the ward are Dorothy B. Neiswender and Lucille B. Cannon, with Jeanne H. Rydalch as work director. 437 antique VOUT plastic flowers Dorothy J. Roberts Transparencies by the author Decorative Designs from the home of Alberta H. Christensen "Voices of silence' — have you not admired them, too in the baroque plastic flower arrangements of the day, muted in tone, gilded and antiqued? Shades of the seventeenth century Flemish masters, and their famous pictures of floral art, are simulated in the oldworld feeling of these modern bouquets. For many of us who did not know of the special process for thus transforming the commonest, even soiled, plastic flowers and foliage, (cloth flowers cannot be used in this process), it is a joy to learn just how simple it can be. With little effort and small expense, plus the joy of creating beauty, these rich-looking home accessories can be possible for all of us by merely dipping each flower in the following manner. In a wide-mouthed can or jar or bottle, combine: 1 cup paint thinner or turpentine 1 cup clear varnish 1 tablespoon dark oak stain 1 tablespoon powdered gold (Venus, medium) Into this solution dip each flower, after bending back an inch or so on the stem end to form a small hook. Stir the mixture between each flower-dipping. Hang each flower upside-down on a line to dripdry till morning. Place papers under the line to catch the drippings. By the next day, colors will be muted by the stain and varnish, and leaves and petals veined and tipped with gold.