[Vol14 | November 1927 | Sequence: 05b | Category: Article | Title: Pies | Author: Ida Peterson Beal]


Pies Ida Peterson Beal. The Junior member of the General Board of the Relief, Society is Ida Peterson Beal. In her womanhood she reveals all the charm that her girlhood promised. She was born in Ephraim, Sanpete county, and is the youngest daughter of the late President Canute Peterson and Charlotte Eckstrom Peterson. Her home is described, by one who is well acquainted with it, "as a good, old-fashioned, hospitable home where every stranger found a welcome." Her early education was received in the grade schools at Ephraim and later in the Snow Academy, from which she was graduated. Following her work at Snow Academy she attended the Brigham Young University, where she remained nearly three years. She specialized in music in that institution, and under the able training of Professor A. C. Lund, made rapid advancement. While at the Brigham Young University she had one of the most musical and truly beautiful voices that has ever been heard in the institution. She will be remembered by those who recall her work there as one of the first of Professor Lund's students to receive general recognition and admiration because of her unusual gift of song. She took the leading role in the first opera staged by the music department, playing opposite to Oscar A. Kirkham, Executive Secretary of the Young Men's organization. On her return home she taught two years in the grade schools of Ephraim, later marrying T. A. Beal, son of President Henry Beal, who was then serving on the faculty of the Snow Academy. This ambitious young couple continued their work first in the University of Utah and later at Columbia University, New York City, Three years were spent in the eastern metropolis, where Mrs. Beal was enrolled for special work. On her return home she was called to the presidency of the stake Primary Association, a position which she undoubtedly filled with delight to the children, as she is just the type 'of person to whom children are instinctively drawn. ~But her time was not solely taken up by the Primary Association, for Member of General Board MRS. IDA PETERSON BEAL 
 the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Relief Society each claimed a share. In 1913, her husband accepted a professorship at the University of Utah, which established her in Salt Lake City. Since her residence in Salt Lake City she has served both the Y. L. M. I. A. And the Relief Society in an official capacity. About four years ago she was called to be a member of the Liberty stake Relief Society Board. A year, covering part of 1925 and part of 1926, was spent in Europe, where she took advantage of opportunities offered in the cities of Heidelberg and Berlin?cities noted for their cultural advantages. While abroad she came in contact with different auxiliary organizations of the Church, to whom she bore her testimony of the truth of the Latter-day work. On August 17, 1927, she was called to be a member of the General Board of the Relief Society. She is active in civic Organizations as well as Church organizations. At present she is the secretary and treasurer of the Woman's National Republican Federation, also president of the Faculty Women of the University of Utah. All her work has been done joyously, and all who have come in contact with her have felt radiating from her a spirit of delight that characterizes only those who love deeply and ? sincerely the work they are doing.