[Vol14 | November 1927 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Literary Celebrities Visit Latter-day Saint Temple]

Literary Celebrities Visit Latter-day Saint Temple Dedication of the Canadian Temple Helen Kimball Orgill 548 The United Order.... J. M. Sjodahl 550 Ink Spots and Golden Glow Estella Pugmire Rich 554 Thanksgiving Beatrice Williams 561 Notes from the Field Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c Foreign, $1.25 a Year?l5c Single Copy  Phone Wasatch 3123 {7 ~ DIAMONDS It is not too early to think of Diamonds?messengers of Christmas sentiment for loved ones. BOYD P. JEWELERS 166 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY For Three Generations To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS SAN FRANCISCO own To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning $58.00 direct or route reversed.....................Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 
 MAIN ST.. SALT LAKE CITY PHONES WAS. 3008?3078 2,  There are many who suffer loss. Be prudent?Avert it by This organization writes every form of insurance always of the highest quality?Such as that offered by the Utah Home Fire Insurance Company. H Home Fire I C Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. HEBER J. GRANT & CO., General Agents 22 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah ?  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Factory-Made famous Z. C. M. I. ~ Mountaineer OVERALLS For men, youths, boys and children, 9-0z. Copper Riveted WAIST OVERALLS For men and boys. Wear *em and let 'er buck. Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS For Children Select your Family's Christmas Present NOW! We have just received carload shipments for Xmas delivery of GULBRANSEN. 'Registering' PIANOS Straight pianos $295, $350 Easy Terms Freight Paid Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co. Ogden Salt Lake City Pocatello When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Registering player pianos.................$450, $580, $615, $700 USE - BENNETT'S "PROPERTY LIFE INSURANCE" PAINT PRODUCTS "For the Adornment and Protection of all Surfaces" Made by Sold by Salt Lake Pocatello Everywhere in the West  L.D.S. GARMENTS Seven DIRECT FROM FACTORY Times You are guaranteed unusual wear Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years. No. 68 Lt. Wt. Ladies' new style. Sent to you No. 74 Lt. Weight combed....$1. A6 No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle.......... 1.45 No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back.................. 1.70 No. 56 Heavy weight............. 2.15 No. 27 Med. Heavy, % wool.... 3.35 No. 39 Extra heavy, 4 wool... 3.85 Please state whether for men or women?new or old style Postage prepaid Pay Cash?Cash Pays Utah Power & Light Co. And Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 111 E. 2nd So. St., Salt Lake City The Weir Steel Furnace Saves 25% on your fuel bill?makes cleaner heat because of its construction of electric welded joints. All installations according to the standard code. Best for Burning Oil or Coal MORRISC. JOHNSON SHEET METAL WORKS 850 So. State Wasatch 1189 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (Bennett Glass & Paint Co. And satisfaction from Cutler Garments if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear No. 64 Medium weight............ 1.43 No. 62 Medium heavy.............. 1.70 ) Reliable Dealers amp1on of the World on Free Trial L. D. S. GARMENTS When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid in U. S. Samples on request. Upper o Bs: 758 Bleached, Med. Hvy.............. 1.95 3 pair 2.75 BARTON & GO Special Sunday Bricks and Neopolitan Bricks 25? pt., 50c qt. Call Your Keeley's Dealer. Extra packed in ice. EW! And Fast TEX BEST ELECTRIC WASHER Here is the latest and highest development in washing machines?a speedy, efficient electric washer with every feature a modern washer should have. The marvelous new Apex handles a standard 8 pound load at a single washing and does an average week's laundry in one hour. Terms to suit your convenience. Come in today for a demonstration, Inter-Mountain Electric Co. 43-59 EASY 4TH SO. Or. Fer Free demonstration Call Was. 354 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 142 Light Weight, Fiat..........$.95 204 Double Carded Cotton, Rib 1.35 32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt..... 1.50 222 Cotton, Rayon Striped....... 1.65 252 Cotton Bleached, Med. Wt. 1.75 744 Unbleached, Med. Hvy....... 1.85 
 622 Mercerized Lisle, Lt. Wt...$2.15 244 Swiss Rib. Lisle and Silk 7" Rayon, New Style............ 2.25 Ladies' hosiery, new shades 1.00 Established in Utah 45 Years Salt Lake City, Utah 4 Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.. Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St. Electrical Appliances of all kinds: Toasters, Waffle Irons, Flat Irons, Curling Irons, Electric Heaters, etc. Every ann. Sold Dealt YOUNG SAMSON knows what he?s aiming at?bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It is a ringer every time, and the price is health. Clover Leaf Dairy. 159 W 1st So Was. 2177 Electrical Appliances of all kids: Toasters, Curling Irons, Electric Heaters, etc. Every article sold by us in absolutely guaranteed. For gifts of any kind, nothing is more appreciated than Electrical Appliances. It will give us pleasure to serve you. Modern Electric Co Was. 2307 128 So. State St. Electrical Dealers and Contractors. HAVE YOU $100.00??$$$$ YOUR IDLE MONEY WILL DOUBLE ITSELF Each $100.00 will be worth $200.00 if you allow the interest to remain on one share of Paidup-Stock which exactly matures one share of Installment Stock. 

OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS George M. Cannon, President Matthew Noall, Vice-President George Q. Morris, Secretary-Treasurer David P. Howells, Dr. George W. Middleton, Milton Bennion, Dr. W. E. Hunter, John Fetzer, S. H. Love. 34% Increase During 1926 49 W. So. Temple St. Salt Lake City Wasatch 2789 BUILT TC ENDURE AUTHORIZED CAPITAL?$2,000,000.00 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Friendship By Elsie C. Carroll I did not know what friendship meant Till trouble came to me; I did not know the many ways That friends could friendly be. I did not know how many hands Would help me bear my cross; I did not know how many hearts Would sorrow at my loss. I did not know the blessedness Of just a word; a tear; The pressure of a hand; a sigh; The silent standing near And breathing just a little prayer That shines from out the eyes; Of just a written line of hope;? All these I've learned to prize. And I have learned the world can't be As empty as it seems, When all one's love and joy are dead. The light of friendship gleams. And like a little torch it sheds A halo in the dark? A radiance that warms and spreads Until it strikes a spark. Within the soul made desolate, On humble knees I bend And pray that I may learn to be In times of need?a friend! ??

THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - CrarissA SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor -:::: - ALIcE LoursE REYNOLDS Assistant Manager -: Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine  Vou. XIV NOVEMBER, 1927 No. 11 EDITORIAL Grandsons of the Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon It is exceedingly gratifying and, under the circumstances perhaps passing strange, that descendants of all three of the witnesses of the Book of Mormon should have visited the Arizona temple since it has been open to the public. It would be gratifying under any circumstances to have these visits, but it is particularly gratifying at a time when the centenary of the delivery of the plates. Of the Book of Mormon to Joseph the Prophet is being commemorated. It is passing strange because the witnesses, in having left the Church would naturally be expected to embitter their posterity when making explanation by way of justification for their act, after having had the visit of an angel. For this reason it is particularly significant that their interests should have led them to make a visit to a temple built by the Latter-day Saints. Oliver Cowdery's grandson came from Cleveland, Ohio. The grandson of David Whitmer very likely came from the place where David Whitmer resided, while Lehi Harris, the grandson of Martin Harris, is a worker on the temple. We are delighted that they have shown so much interest. We trust they feel that they are part and portion of the great latter day work.

Countess of Cassillis, President of the Edinburgh
Branch of the British National Council of
Women Visits Salt Lake
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Recording Secretary of the National
Council of Women of the United States, received a letter
from Dr. Valeria H. Parker, President of the National Council
of Women of the United States, stating that Lady Cassillis would
be visiting Salt Lake City, in connection with her husband, in
September, as the Earl of Cassillis would be here on behalf of
the Royal Arch Masons of Scotland who were holding a triennial
convocation of the General Grand Chapter of the Royal Arch
Masons of America, in Denver, from September 26 to 30.
Lady Cassillis' itinerary permitted a stop-over in Boston, Salt
Lake City and Denver, in the United States. As Dr. Parker was
very anxious that she should be met officially during her visit
she wrote to Mrs. Lyman, asking her to meet Lady Cassillis and
extend adequate courtesies in the name of the Council. Before
her arrival Mrs. Lyman called together the heads of affiliated
organizations in Salt Lake City and plans were made to meet her
and welcome her to the city.
Immediately upon her arrival a committee of Council representatives,
consisting of Mrs. Richard R. Lyman, Recording Secretary
of the National Council of Women, Mrs. C. Clarence Neslen,
representing the city, Mrs. Harry R. Allen, representing the
General Federation of Women's Clubs, and Dr. Jane Skofield of
the National Association of Medical Women, called at her hotel,
and extended greetings on behalf of Dr. Parker and the National
Council of Women of the United States. The committee placed
at the disposal of Lady Cassillis an automobile, and extended
an invitation for sight-seeing drives about the city and vicinity,
and for luncheon to be held in her honor. However, due to the
previous plans of Lord Cassillis and his party, every moment of
the day and a-half spent in Salt Lake City was programmed with
sight-seeing trips, organ recital, visit to the Great Salt Lake,
and to Bingham mines, etc.
The local representatives of the Council were delighted to
have met Lady Cassillis, who is a most charming and interesting
woman, and to spend an hour with her, upon her invitation, just
prior to her departure, discussing the work of the National
Council of Women of the United States. They were also pleased
to place in her car, baskets of Utah fruits and flowers, bearing
messages of friendship and greeting from the National Council of
Women of the United States.
During the hour Lady Cassillis was visiting with Council
representatives she stepped into the Board room of the Relief
Society, where the General Board was in session. While with the
Board she said, "I am delighted to see you ; delighted to know that your special work connects with your religious work. I believe
in religion and think that such a connection is valuable.
"
Literary Celebrities Visit Latter-day Saint Temples
A book entitled Tramping With a Poet in the Rockies contains
one chapter entitled "A Visit ,to the 'Mormons'." The
"Mormons" referred to are those living in and about Cardston,
in Alberta, Canada. A good deal of the chapter is devoted to a
description of a visit by Stephen Graham, a well-known English
writer, and Vachel Lindsay, minstrel poet of America, to the
Cardston temple.
Now, word reaches us that John Galsworthy, the gifted English
playwright recently spent three hours in the Arizona temple.
While there he betrayed a good deal of interest, not specially
in the temple but in " Mormon" beliefs, and particularly did he
show interest in the problem of how we manage to keep our
contact with the young people of the Church. Harold Bell
Wright, who has made his home in Arizona for many years,
wrote asking the very latest date of the temple's closing and
if he may be admitted when he presents himself.
We have in this group of literary celebrities, two English,
and two American authors. Stephen Graham is noted for his
books of travel, John.Galsworthy, English, is one of the very best
of our modern writers of drama, while Vachel Lindsay is exceedingly
well-known among our American poets and Harold
Bell Wright is one of our most popular American novelists.