[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: TOO LATE. | Author: Unknown]

TOO LATE.

The golden rays of the setting sun,
	Through a rifting cloudland glare,
And linger lovingly on the heads,
	Of a youth and maiden fair.

He was noble, good, with manly mien,
	That foretold his life to be;
Sweet womanly virtues she possessed,
	God-given and rare to see.

No thought had they that their childood joys,
	Would flee with the passing day;
That life henceforth was reality,
 	The past but a sweet dream lay.

The fading lights throw their mellow beams,
	Far out o’er the distant land.
While the dark’ning twilight nearer draws,
	Where they still in silence stand.

Anon from the tranquil scene, his gaze
	Wandered to her upturned face;
In his tender glance and softened tone,
	Was the old, ‘‘old story’s’’ trace.

He loved her; and though in years his life
	Was young and as yet unknown;
But within his breast a man’s heart beats,
	And the flower of love was blown.

No whisper falls on her list’ning ear,
	Of the truth that lies concealed;
For her heart unconscious sleeps, nor knows
	The sweet secret unrevealed.

The parting words were quietly said,
	That took him far from her side;
And life traveled on its old sweet way,
	No thought for what might betide.

Years had passed since that fair summer day,
	When they watched the setting sun;
Years that had left their unerring mark,
	Yet many a vict’ry won.

No change had come to his constant heart,
	Though long days had come and gone;
His love had grown strong, and pure, and deep,
	While her heart still slumbered on.

“Arrested for crime!” The papers ran,
	The news spread quick as a glance; 
He lay that night in a prison cell,
	A victim of circumstance.

Held by the law for a deed most vile,
	That another’s hand had done;
But his heart was pure, his hands unsoiled, .
	And his guilt believed by none.

Only one night, but the sad mistake ,
	Had his fair name stigmatized,
And rendered his hopes of future bliss,
	But vain dreams unrealized.

[Column 2]
And she? A night of utter darkness 
	Took the place of sunny day.
When the gloom of that unkind story,
	Threw its shadow ’cross her way.

How often affliction’s hand must, turn
	The course of a loving heart,
And bridge the gulf of indifference.
	That holds it from love apart.

At last the star that should light her way,
	Has risen in clouds of despair;
Its dim rays fall on her lonely path,
	Like spectres so grim and bare.

Often to him her yearning heart longed
	Sweet words of hope to impart;
But his wounded pride forbade him speak,
	And they drifted still apart.

Alas, for the life that weary waits,
	For the joys that never come;
For the soul that starves for love’s caress,
	Whose lips are forever dumb.

A gloomy shroud of deathlike silence,
	Chased the light of glor’ous day,
Without a sorrow-laden chamber,
	Where she lonely dying lay.

She had waited long and patiently,
	For the words that never came—
Only a symbol that proved to her,
	That he still remained the same.
 
Sweet hope that once shone o’er her pathway,
	Now lies dead within her breast;
While oft the pale lips plantive murmur,
 	“Love, why thus my heart oppress?’’

But no answ’ring echo reached her ear,
	Her anguished heart to console.
Like a tender flower, storm-tossed and bruised,
	She has reached the heav’nly goal.

Softly the tread of a footstep falls,
	Without the death-chamber door,
He has hopeful come, his love to tell,
	And to count their parting o’er.

His passionate cry meets no response,
	As he kneels beside the cot;
Unheeded now his agonized words,
	“Come back, dear heart, leave me not."

Too late he has come with tales of love,
	To that still heart pleads in vain;
Too late he knows, that his selfish pride,
	His life’s dearest hope has slain.
April 30, 1896.	H.


[Column 1]
