[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: HER LIFE AND WORKS. | Author: E. B. W]

HER LIFE AND WORKS.
(Preamble.)
	So little is really known of Sappho, that
one is compelled to depend upon what has
been handed down, which is partly legen-
dary, and very many people only consider
Sappho a myth.
	To me as a child Sappho was a reality,
and an ideal creature at the same time. I
can scarcely remember so young was I,
when I first heard Sappho talked of, nor
when I first read her name underneath the
picture which hung in the little chamber or
nursery where I slept. I recall it now,

[Column 2]
with its glow of beautiful coloring, and the
wondrous beauty of every outline of her
graceful figure as she appeared to my child-
ish eyes. Sappho with a harp in one hand,
which I supposed made of gold, and the gar-
land of lilies, as I thought, in the other, leap-
ing from the Leucadian rock into the yawn-
ing abyss below;—many a time have I fallen
asleep with the picture in my mind fancy-
ing I saw her motion in the very act of
springing into the water, her dress actually
fluttering in the wind.
	I am sure I must have wearied my mother
with the endless queries I put to her about
Sappho; why she wanted to throw herself
from the rock, and what love was, or Cupid
that made her do it; and why she sung
sweeter than all the Greek maidens? and
every other imaginary question. But in
truth I was never quite satisfied, nor am I
yet, nor are any of those who hanker after
the unattainable, the mystery of mysteries.
I hope some time the secret of Sappho will
be unraveled, and that we shall find she
was really a creature of flesh and blood, and
not a myth, or simply an ideal.

	The best knowledge of Sappho extant is
that she lived and flourished before the
Christian era, reaching the zenith of her
fame about 610 B. C. It was during
her life time Jeremiah began to prophecy,
and Daniel was carried away to Babylon.
Solon was legislating at Athens, and Tar-
quinius Priscus, the fifth king, is said to
have been reigning over Rome. She lived
before the birth of Guatuma, the founder of
Buddhism. It is not strange that twenty-
five centuries should have made her record
unauthentic. It is almost wonderful that
anything even legendary should be left of
one who lived so long ago, and who was
only a woman, and a poet-songstress. One
writer says had it not been for the quota-
tions of lexicographers and grammarians
no word of hers would have survived; al-
though history says her writings were pre-
served intact, until 360 A. D., and
the Athenian comic poet, Epicrates, who
wrote about that time, says in his Anti-Lais
that he too,
“Had learned by heart completely all the songs,
Breathing love, that sweetest Sappho sung.”
	Some historians affirm, although
there is no confirmatory evidence, that the
works of Sappho and other lyric poet, were
burnt at Constantinople and at Rome, in
the year 1073, in the popedom of Gregory
V 11. Cordan says the burning took place
under Gregory Magianzen, about 380, A.D.
	Bishop Blomfield, who is an acknowl-
edged authority, thinks they must have
been destroyed at an early date, because
neither Alcaeus nor Sappho are annotated
by any of the later grammarians.
	The origin of Sappho is also more or less
mythical. Herodotus says her father was
Scamandronymus, but Suidas, who com-
piled a Greek lexicon in eleven hun-
dred, gives us the choice of seven other
names. Her mother's name was Cleis. It
is possible too that she was born at Mitylene
the chief city of the island of Lesbos, an is-
land in the Agean sea. Strabo in her geogra-
phy says Mitylene, formerly produced cele
brated men, such as Pittacus, one of the wise
men, Alcaeus, the poet, and others “Contem-
porary with these flourished Sappho, who
was something wonderful; at no period
within memory, has any woman been
known, who in any way, even in the least
degree, could be compared to her for poetry.”


[Column 1]
The glory of Lesbos was that Sappho was 
its citizen, and its chief fame centres in the
fact of her celebrity.
	“Where burning Sappho loved and sung.”
is a quotation familiar to us all; the island is
famous now for its oil and wine, and its
salubrity. Virgil refers to its vines which
trailed like ivy on the ground, and many
authors testify to the wholesomeness of
Lesbos wine.
	Sappho was of the Aeolian race, and Sy-
monds in his Studies of Greek Poets says
“The Aeolians occupied the very fore-
ground of Greek literature, and blazed out
with a brilliance of lyrical splendor that has
never been surpassed. This passion blos-
somed into the most exquisite lyrical poetry
that the world has known.” In this the
Lesbian poets (it is said) were not unlike
the Provencal troubadours, who made a
literature of love. The customs of the Aeo-
lians permitted more social and domestic
freedom than was common in Greece.
Aeolian women were not confined to the
harem like Ionians, or subjected to the
rigorous discipline of the Spartans. While
mixing freely with male society, they were
highly educated, and accustomed to express
their sentiments to an extent unknown else-
where in history—until the present time.
The Lesbian ladies applied themselves
successfu[-]ly to literature; they formed clubs
for the cultivation of poetry and music;
they studied the art of beauty, and sought
to refine metrical forms and diction. Nor
did they confine themselves to the scientific
side of Art. Unrestrained by public opin-
on and passionate for the beautiful, they
cultivated to the extreme their senses and
emotions. All the luxuries and elegancies
of life the rich valleys of Lesbos could afford
were at their disposal; exquisite tropical
gardens, olive groves and fountains, pine
shadowed caves by the sea where bathing
was a delight, fruits such as only the South-
ern sea and sea wind ever mature, mar-
ble cliffs starred with the flowers of spring,
aromatic with the perfume of myrtle and
rosemary; nightingales that sing the sum-
mer nights through, temples dim with
dusky gold and bright with ivory, statues and
frescoes of heroic forms; these are the sur-
roundings, the settings, the environments
of the poets who lived and sung and who
 still live in the memory of the world.
	One writer says the voluptuousness of
Aeolian poetry, is not like that of Persian
or Arabian art. It is Greek in its self-re-
straint, proportion, tact; and there is noth-
ing burdensome in its sweetness. All is so
rhythmically and sublimely ordered in the
poems of Sappho, that supreme art lends
solemnity and grandeur to the expression
of unmitigated passion.
	Sappho seems to have been the centre of a
society in Mytilene where she dwelt, a
kind of aesthetic club, devoted to the Muses.
Maidens gathered around her from even
comparatively distant places, attracted by
her fame, to study under her all that related
to poetry and music; similar to the later age
when students resorted to the philosophers
at Athens. The names of fourteen of her
girl-friends have been preserved, the most
celebrated was Erinna, a poetess of Lesbos;
a poetess of whom an Epigram in the Greek
Anthology says. 
‘These are Erinna songs, how sweet though slight,
	For she was but a girl of nineteen years.—
Yet stronger far than what most men can write,
Had death delayed, whose fame had equalled hers.’

[Column 2]
	Of another Damophylia, of Pamphylia, it
is said she lived in close friendship with
Sappho and wrote poems after her model.
Suidas says Sappho’s companions and
friends were three, Attis Lesippa and
Megara, and her pupils he also names.
Another Greek writer says “What Alcib-
iades aud Charmides and Phaedrus were
to Socrates, Gyrinna and Atthis and Anoc-
toria were to Sappho—she herself praised
Dica for her skill in weaving coronals, and
a daughter of Polyanax is addressed as one
of her maidens; nor can we tell who were
those other hundred maidens. Ovid
makes her say “She blamelessly loved
before Phaon satisfied her heart.” Plato in his
Phaedrus calls Sappho—“Beautiful for the
sweetness of her songs.” Maximns Tyrius
says she was small and dark, une petite bru-
nette. Swinburne says,
	“The small dark body’s Lesbian loveliness,
		That held the fire eternal.”
Aleacus to Sappho in his song says:
“Violet-weaving pure, soft-smiling Sappho.”
	Domachris in the Greek Anthology, in
an Epigram on a statue of Sappho, speaks
of her bright eyes showing her wisdom,
and compares the beauty of her face to that
of Aphrodite. To another writer in the
Greek Anthology she is the pride of “The
lovely-haired Lesbians.” Anacreon as
well as Philoxenus, calls her “Sweet-voic-
ed.” Little is known of her personal ap-
pearance, but the whole testimony of ancient
writers describe the charm of her poetry
with unbounded praise.
	Such was her unique renown, that she
was called “The Poetess,” as Horace was
“The Poet.” Plato numbers her among
the Wise. Phutarch speaks of the grace of
her poems, acting on her listeners like an
enchantment, and says that when he read
them “he set aside the drinking cup in very
shame.”
	A knowledge of her writings was held to
be essential of culture among the Greeks,
and she is called in the Greek Anthology,
the Tenth Muse, child of Aphrodite and
Eros, nursling of the Graces, and Persua-
sion, pride of Hellas, companion of Apollo,
and prophesy her immortality. Many
Greek poets have written of her in the most
passionate style. Plato says
	“Some thoughtlessly proclaim the Muses Nine,
	A tenth is Lesbian Sappho, Maid divine.”
	All the Eipgrammatists uuite in the
same strain calling her “The flower of the
Graces.”
	Aristotle remarks that her image was en-
graved on the coins of Mitylene “though
she was only a woman.” J. C. Wolf de-
scribes six extant coins, which presumably
were struck at different times in honor of
her; however no coins bearing the name or
effigy of Sappho have been discovered
which were current before the Christian era,
so that no conclusion drawn can be of his-
torical importance. The best representa-
tion of what she and her surroundings
might have been, is the Sappho of Alma
Tadema exhibited at the Royal Academy
1881 and etched by C. O. Murray and pho-
tographed by the Berlin Photographic
company; from this J. C. Webb has en-
graved a medallion.
	A large statue of Sappho was splendedly
made by Silanion aud stolen by Verres. ac-
cording to Cicero, from the pyrtaneum at
Syracuse. Christodomus in the Anthology
describes a statue of her as adorning the
gymnasium of the Byzantium, in the fifth

[Column 3]
century. (Pliny says that Leon an artist,
painted a picture of her in the garb of a
lutist.)
	Numerous illustrations of her still exist
upon Greek vases, but they are all said to be
in a debased style, and one would feel more
content not to have seen them. (J. Ad-
dington Symonds says “The world has
suffered no greater literary loss, than the
loss of Sappho’s poems, so perfect are the
smallest fragments preserved, that we
muse in a sad rapture of astonishment to
think what the complete poems must have
been. Of all the poets of the world, of all
the illustrious artists of all literatures,
Sappho is the one whose every word has
a peculiar and unmistakable perfume, a
seal of absolute perfection and illimitable
grace. In her art she was unerring.”)
	The age in which Sappho flourished is
mainly determined by concurrent events.
Athenaeus makes her contemporary with
Alyattes, the father of Crœsus who reigned
over Lydia from 628, to 570, B. C. Euse-
bius mentions her in his Chronicle for the
year 604 B. C. How long she lived no
one of the writers of that day pretend to
determine; to herself in Fragment 75 of her
poems she applies the epithet old, which
may be merely relative. If what Herodo-
tus says is true, Sappho may have reached
the age of fifty years. An inscription on
the famous Parian marbles, a system of
chronology compiled in the third century
B. C., says “When Aristocles reigned over
the Athenians, Sappho fled from Mitylene
and sailed to Sicily, but the exact date is
illegible, though it may be placed between
604 and 592 B. C.
	Balancing all the evidence, Fasti Hellen-
icci takes the years 611 and 592 to be the
years in which Sappho flourished.
	Of the family life of Sappho nothing re-
liable is known. Lindas says “Sappho
married one Cercolas, a man of great wealth,
who sailed from Andros,” and he adds “She
had a daughter by him named Cleis.” In
Fr. 85, Sappho mentions this daughter
Cleis by name, and Ovid in his Epistle also
refers to her; but the existence of such a
husband has been warmly disputed
	“The story of Sappho’s love for Phaon,
and her leap from the Leucadian rock, in
consequence of his disdaining her, though
it has been so long implicitly believed, does
not seem to rest on any historical basis.
Indeed more than one epigrammatist in the
Greek Anthology expressly states that she
was buried in an Aeolic grave.”
	For all the myths or legends that cluster
about Phaon, he may after all have been a
real personage. The traditions which have
been handed down tell of his miraculous
lovelineess, and insensibility to love. He
is said to have been a boatman of Mitylene
who was endowed by Aphrodite with youth
and extrodinary beauty as a reward for be-
ing ferried her for nothing. Servius, who
wrote about 400 A. D., says she gave him
an alabaster box of ointment, the effect of
which was to make all women fall in love
with him, and that one of these (he does
not mention her name) threw herself in des-
pair from the cliff of Leucas. Servius
further states on the authority of Menander,
that the temple was founded by Phaon of
Lesbos. Phaon’s beauty and power of
fascination passed into a proverb. Pliny
however says, he became the object of Sap-
pho’s love because he had found the plant
eryngo, probably our sea-holly, and that it
acted like a love-charm.


[Column 1]
	The tale runs that the unfortunate love
of Sappho caused Phaon to flee to Sicily,
whither she followed him. The inscriptions 
on the Parian marbles also mention a cer-
tain year in which Sappho sailed from
Mitylene and fled to Sicily. The Chroni-
cle however, says nothing about Phaon,
nor is any reason given for her exile; some
have imagined that she was obliged to leave
her country on political grounds, but there
is no trace in her writings, nor does any re-
port indicate that she ever interested herself
in politics.
	Strabo in his Geography says, there is a
white rock which stretches out from Leucas
to the sea towards Cephallenia, that takes
its name from its whiteness. The rock of
Leucas has upon it a temple of Apollo and
the leap from it was believed to stop love.
From this it is said that Sappho first in pur-
suit of the haughty Phaon, urged on by
maddening desire, threw herself from its
far-seen rocks, imploring the (Apollo) lord
and king. The story of the Leucadian leap
was never much doubted until modern
times. It is strange that none of the many
authors who relate the legend, say what
was the result of the leap, whether it was
fatal to her life or to her love.
	The story as given by Addison was, Sap-
pho the Lesbian in love with Phaon, arrived
at the temple of Apollo habited like a bride,
in garments as white as snow. She wore a
garland of myrtle on her head, and carried
in her hand a little musical instrument of
her own invention. After having sung a
hymn to Apollo, she hung up her garland
on one side of his altar, and her harp on the
other. She then tucked up her vestments
like a Spartan virgin, and amidst thousands
of spectators, who were anxious for her
safety and offered up vows for her deliver-
ance, marched directly foward to the ut-
most summit of the promontory, where af-
ter having repeated a stanza of her own
verses, which they could not hear, she
threw herself off the rock with such an in-
trepedity as was never before observed in
any who had attempted the dangerous leap.
Many who were present related that they
saw her fall into the sea, from which she
never rose again; though there were others
who affirmed that she never came to the
bottom of her leap, but was changed into a
swan as she fell, and that they saw her hov-
ering in the air under that shape. But
whether or no the whiteness and fluttering
of her garments, might not deceive those
who looked upon her, or whether she might
not be metamorphosed into that musical
and melancholy bird, is still a doubt among
the Lesbians. Alcaeus the famous lyric
poet, who had for some time been passion-
ately in love with Sappho, arrived at the
promontory of Leucate that very evening
in order to take the leap on her account
but learning that Sappho had been there
before him and that her body could nowhere
be found, he very generously lamented her
fall, and is said to have written his one
hundred and twenty-fifth ode upon that oc-
casion. Sappho, if we can believe the an-
cient writers, loved, and loved more than
once, and loved to the point of desperate
sorrow, though it did not come to the mad
and fatal leap from Leucate as the unnec-
essary legend pretends. Sir Edwin Arnold
says “Nevertheless there are worse steeps
than Leucate down which the heart may
fall, and colder seas of despair than the
Adriatic than which to engulf it.”
	Although so little of Sappho remains, her

[Column 2]
complete works must have been consider-
able. She seems to have been the acknow-
ledged writer of wedding songs, if we may
believe Himericus and there is little doubt that
Catullus Epithalamia was copied if not
actually translated from hers. She was on
all sides regarded as the greatest erotic poet
of antiquity. Nine books of her lyric Odes
are said to have existed, but it is uncertain
how they were composed. Some of the
Odes of Horace have been regarded as direct
translations from Sappho.
	Athenaeus says that Chamaeleon, one of
the disciples of Aristotle, wrote a book
about Sappho, and Strabo says Callias of
Lesbos interpreted her songs. Alexander
the Sophist used to lecture about her, and
Dracon of Stratonica, wrote a commentary
on her metres. She wrote in the Aeolic dia-
lect; the absence of rough breathing, the
throwing back of the accent, and the use of
many forms and words unknown to ordinary
Attic Greek, all testify to this. Her poems
were undoubtedly written for recitation
with the aid of music, they were in fact,
Prof. Mahaffy says “The earliest specimens
of what is called in modern days “The Song
or Ballad,” in which the repetition of short
rhythms produces a certain pleasant mono-
tony easy to remember and easy to under-
stand.”
	Plato’s definition of melic poetry like
Sappho’s, is that it is “Compounded out of
three things, speech, music and rhythm.”
	Aristoxenus, as quoted by Plutarch, as-
cribes to her the invention of the Mixo-
Lydian mode, of which the plain meaning is
asserted to be that she sang softly and
plaintively, and at a higher pitch than any
of her predecessors. All Greek modes can
be exhibited by means of our diatonic scale
—by the white keys for example, omitting
the black ones, of our modern piano-fortes;
the various modes having been merely di-
visions of the diatonic scale into certain
regions, each consisting of one octave. The
Ecclesiastical Mixo- Lydian mode supposed
to be similar to the Greek mode of the
same name, is the scale of our G. major
without the (F. #.) or leading note. It was
called in the early Christian Church the an-
gelic mode, and is now known as the
sveenth of the Ecclesiastical or Gregorian
modes. Sappho is said by Greek historians
to have been the first of the Greek poets to
use the Pektis, a foreign instrument, a kind
of harp which was played by the fingers
without a plectum. Sappho also mentions
by name kinds of many-stringed Lesbian
lyres, which cannot now be identified.
	It is said to be impossible to translate the
songs of Sappho and preserve the poetry,
and most of the fragments are given prose
translations which give a truer meaning.
	I have copied one or two as specimens—
here is one the 51st fragment.
	“And there the bowl of ambrosia was
mixed, and Hermes took the ladle to pour
out for the gods; and then they all held
goblets, and made libation, and wished the
bridegroom all good luck.”
	“Round about, the cool water thrills
through the apple branches, and sleep flows
down upon us in the rustling leaves.”
	“Come goddess of Cyprus, and in golden
cups serve nectar delicately mixed with
delights.”
	“O muse of the golden throne, raise that
strain which the Elder of Teos, from the
goodly land of fair women, used to sing
so sweetly.”
	“Raise high roof-beams! carpenters! Like

[Colmun 2]
Ares comes the bridegroom, taller than a
tall man! Hymenaeus! Towering as the
Lesbian singer towers among men of other
lands.”
	Another prose translation.
	“As the sweet apple blushes on the end of
the bough, the very end of the bough,
which the gatherers overlooked, nay over-
looked not, but could not reach.”
	Tran lation by Palgrave.
				O fair—O sweet!
	As the sweet apple blooms high on the bough
	High as the highest forgot of the gatherers 
					So thou!
	Yet not so! Nor forgot of the gatherers
	High o’er their reach in the golden air
				O sweet! O fair!
	Of her child Sappho wrote beautifully in
the Aeolian, literally translated.
	I have a fair daughter with a form like a
golden flowers, Cleis the beloved! Above
whom I prize, nor all Lydia, nor lovely
Lesbos. 
	Translated by Merivale.
		“I have a child, a lovely one
		In beauty like the golden sun,
		Or like sweet flowers of earliest bloom
		And Cleis is her name, for whom,
		I, Lydia’s treasures, were they mine
		Would glad resign.”
	It is said by the best men of letters and
Greek scholars, that it is impossible to
judge Sappho by any translations of her
fragments either prose or poetry; and as it
is utterly useless to try and picture her in-
comparable beauty of face, grace of form
and voice of sweetness, the whole idea of
Sappho as I have it in my mind is in its-
self a poem not capable of being translated.
						E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


