[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: VISIT TO WASHINGTON. | Author: SARAH A. BOYER]

VISIT TO WASHINGTON.

HAVING been asked to give a short
sketch of my trip to Washington, I do so
with pleasure, hoping the same will not be
uninteresting, though I do not do this be-
cause of my fitness by nature to tell it with
precision and amplitude as one versed in
descriptive lore, but will give a few of my
observations and conditions as we met them.
The object in going as you are all well
aware was to attend a Woman’s Suffrage
Convention, and while it might seem a use-
less expenditure of time and money con-
sidering that Utah is now a State with
universal political equality guaranteed to
ajilier citizens without regard to race, color
of sex; yet it was deemed expedient and al-
so a matter of justice due the National W.
S. A. to meet with them as on former pc-
casions, not now as formerly to solicit their
influence in our behalf, but that they were

[Column 2]
in need of our influence, together with
forty-three other States and Territories who
went there for the purpose of devising
methods best adapted to further the cause
and to petition Congress to grant them a
six teenth amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. It was a time when
never were the Delegates interviewed with
greater zest than on the present occasion,
but mind you, (we attribute these to our)
charged condition in state affairs and not to
ourselves. Many of the Presidents of
State associations said to me, they were
paid for coming to the convention if only
they could report to their State association,
that Utah women were independent and
free as the third star on the flag of one
Union indicates. They acknowledge they
are possessed with the prejudices of the past
to such an extent that they feared we were
not socially free. I told them it would
have been utterly impossible to have ob-
tained political freedom unless our social
influence had asserted itself &c. During
one conversation I had with some of the
ladies about Utah's social condition a Mrs.
Haskell walked across the parlor to where
we were and asked pardon for the intrusion,
but said she I have been listening to your
conversation and desire to introduce myself.
I am so interested in Utah that I desire to
hear more of her people[-] for while I reside,
in Montana, I know little of your true
status. It was she who was the nominee
for the Office of Attorney General of the
State of Montana but was defeated by Mr.
Haskell her competitor. This created quite
a ripple of laughter in the audience, as also
in the introduction of Miss Yates calling
her Mrs. Yates she objected to being called 
Mrs. and Miss Anthony remarked “no we
don’t covet the title” “Speak for yourself
Aunt Susan” quickly responded witty Miss
Yates which brought down the house.
   Another: reason why it was deemed wise
to send delegates at the present time was to
evidence our progressiveness in uniting our
voices with the rest of the States and.
ritories in the hope that ere long every
State in the Union will concede to woman
this right, and inasmuch as this body of
women had advertised their intention of de-
voting one session to Utah in welcoming
and congratulating her people in the gallant
fight they had made to engraft this principle
in her constitution it was deemed necessary
by the President, of the Utah W. S. A. 
and the State executive committee to
send Delegates expressing our ap-
preciation of their recognition and
to respond to Miss Shaw's address of
welcome; as you already know our Senator
Franks J. Cannon was the first speaker to
respond to Miss Shaw’s address of welcome
and was followed by Mrs. C. E. Allen, my-
self and Mrs. F. S. Richards who read a
Paper which was replete with valuable in-
formation relative to our present position
and what had led to it from the Edmunds-
Tucker law down to the present time.
The Washington papers made favorable
comment of our speeches. It was remarked
by Miss Shaw that there never was a time
when we re[-]eived so little opposition as at the


[Column 1]
present. She referred to their San Fran
cisco trip and Salt Lake last summer and
said that the Congress of San Francisco was
the most marvelous gathering she ever saw.
The newspapers said the men were all
hypnotized or they would not stand on the
side walks two hours to get into a Church.
Every subject considered from the training
of children to the decoration of the home, it
all turned on the ballot for woman and
Susan B. Anthony was the Belle of the
Ball. The Superintendent of the San
Francisco schools closed them that Miss
Anthony might address nine hundred
teachers.
	Senator Peffer of Kansas before whom
twenty-two of the Convention presented
their petitions, said there never was a time 
when Congress showed so little prejudice to
our cause as now. Reform in Washington
seems to be the watchword, I believe that
seven out of every ten realize that the ballot
is the one thing necessary to aid in these
reforms.
	The sin spot of Washington, called the
Division or Washington plague spot was be-
ing raided. A prominent lady, a Mrs.
Barrett, at a big mass meeting held there to
take into consideration the best steps to
arrest the sin stained spot was asked by
several well known Lawyers and business
men of the city, would you advocate
raiding the Division and she invaribly
answered “no, because I would not close
even that door to these unfortunate women
until another door was opened for them.’’
	"There stood," said she, ‘‘once in the streets
of Florence, a block of marble, it was an un-
sightly mass of stone which occupied the
public space and was in everybody’s way.
It was decided to remove it and one day a
force of men came to break it to pieces and
cast away the fragments. Before they be- 
gan their work, Michael Angelo chanced to
pass and seeing the block asked that it
might be given him, he said there was an
Angel in that mass of stone and he took it
home. The Sculptor set the Angel free
and today instead of being a nuisance to the
citizens of that beautiful city it guards the
entrance to a great Church and is admired
by the world. So there is an Angel in
every fallen woman and it needs but a
Michael Angelo to bring it forth so that it
may shine in the light of God’s glory to be
numbered among the sinners who have re-
pented, whose value is so many more times
greater than the wise men.” This is a beau-
tiful metaphor; we could write volumes of
the many and varied kinds of mission work
which seems to actuate all classes and de-
nominations in Washington. The descrip-
tions of the receptions and the little inci-
dent of presenting our Senators with a
bouquet of flowers the morning they were
sworn in can be better portrayed by Mrs.
Richards orally than I can do it in writing.
However I trust the feeling that exists
between the national association and the
women of Utah will ever remain, and that
the hand of friendship may never be sev-
ered but that our representation in Wash-
ington may be yearly renewed which will
better evidence our interest in the great
cause of our sex and in humanity than all
the writing we could do. I do know that
our presence and conversation allayed much
prejudice against our people. Shakespeare 
says, “There is a destiny which shapes our
ends, rough, hew them as we may.” The
destiny of Utah is onward and upward. It
is right, conquering might, and may the

[Column 2]
men of Utah never have cause to regret the
part they played which has resulted in
woman's political freedom by an indiscre-
tion of ours, is the honest wish of your co-
laborer in the battle for the right.
SARAH A. BOYER.
Springville, Utah.


