'Elder Harold B. Lee Henry A. Smith Member of the Deseret News Editorial Staff ELDER HAROLD BINGHAM LEE, 42-year-old managing director of the Church welfare program, was sustained a member of the seemed mature beyond his years; who has always manifested a remarkably simple, yet deep and abiding faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ; ELDER HAROLD B, LEE Council of the Twelve Apostles at the general conference, April 6, 1941, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Elder Reed Smoot. Elder Lee is a man who has always who has never sought personal aggrandizement and yet one who in the space of a few short years has arisen to positions of prominence because of marked ability, diligent effort and Page 349 350 a willingness to sacrifice private desires in humble submission to the wishes of those who stand in authority. Many other things might be said of this man, glowing word tributes paid him by those more skilled in use of the pen, but to the Relief Society members of the Church he is most welcomed into this high Church council because of his humanitarianism and his profound, loving interest in the individuals of the Church. In the space of five short years, he has endeared himself not only to the Priesthood of the Church, but to the women as well, for his wise and efficient direction of the Church welfare program in which the Relief Society plays such a vital role. Elder Lee's contributions to the Church have been many, and as he has served the great welfare organization he has also served the Relief Society. Perhaps few of the General Authorities, prior to their appointment to present positions, have had such direct contact with this organization as has the new Apostle. As he has visited about among the stakes and wards in the interest of the welfare program, much of his work has been with the Relief Societies, to whom he has often given credit for carrying a great deal of the burden of the fast-growing program. ° On more than one occasion Elder Lee has attributed to the women of the Church the greatest proportion of accomplishments in welfare work. From the inception of this program, Elder Lee has envisioned the proper place in it of the Relief Society as aides to the Priesthood in doing good works and "looking after the poor." Typical of his thinking along this line in the early days of  program is an excerpt from the March, 1937, issue of the Magazine: After quoting the words of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, made at the organization meeting of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, on March 17, 1842, Elder Lee said: "In this plain and direct statement of ' the Prophet Joseph Smith, the relationship of the Relief Society organization to the Priesthood quorums is clearly defined. It is the direct responsibility of each Priesthood quorum to look after its own members; and the Relief Society organization is an auxiliary to the Priesthood, or as the Prophet Joseph stated, they are 'to provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor' and to 'search out objects of charity' and relieve distress...." | THs new Church leader enters upon his duties with an understanding of the problems of the Church gained from first-hand knowledge. He has been in the kitchens and welfare centers of the Relief Societies in all parts of the Church; he has stood in the fields and factories of the Priesthood quotums; he has gone into the timber lands and coal mines of the welfare program; he has shared in the problems ds well as gloried in the accomplishments of the thousands of men and women who are engaged in this program. Elder Lee acquired his background for the great welfare program and its many problems when as a 31-yearold stake president he had these same problems to solve for his own people. He became president of the Pioneer Stake in 1929, at the start of the depression years. The members of his stake were in the vast majority dependent upon the mines, mills, smelters, railroads, and industries for their livelihood, and he soon found ELDER HAROLD B. LEE himself face to face with a fast-growing and almost insurmountable problem. With his associates he set about perfecting a program to provide opportunity for self-help and independence on the part of those in need of assistance. Out of this simple step, which grew from year to year as the needs advanced, Elder Lee gained first hand experience for a greater mission, which became his when he resigned from his stake presidency and gave up a promising political future as a member of the Salt Lake City Commission, to devote full time to launching and directing the Church welfare program. The other Church experiences of this new Apostle consist of service in Pioneer Stake as stake superintendent of Religion Classes and Sunday Schools, and one year as a counselor in the stake presidency. He also filled a mission in the Western States Mission. Flder Lee was born in Clifton, Idaho, March 28, 1899, a son of Samuel M. And Louisa Bingham Lee. His early education was received in Idaho, and after his return from the mission field he attended the University of Utah. He taught 351 school in Idaho prior to his mission and afterward served five years as a principal in two schools of the Granite district in Salt Lake County. Elder Lee is a loving husband and the father of two fine daughters, Maurine, 16, and Helen, 15. The new Apostle has a friendly and likeable personality. He is a pleasant traveling companion and an intelligent conversationalist. He has few if any hobbies besides his family and his work, though he likes the out-of-doors and can often be found in the early hours of the morning at work in the gardens about his modest home. In his early manhood in Idaho, Elder Lee was a member of an orchestra, and now, ofttimes, he will be found at the keys of the piano. In many of the meetings out in the stakes when launching the great welfare program, it was interesting to find Elder Melvin J. Ballard leading the singing and Elder Lee at the piano. Those who are privileged to know Elder Lee intimately, have the reward of a loyal friendship and close association with a man whose humbleness and spirituality are a source of inspiration. 7 icadtiedte) to dite. Clavelec Appointed 'l' the morning sessions of the general conference of the Church, April 6, 1941, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., announced the appointment of five assistants to the Twelve Apostles: Marion G. Romney, president of Bonneville Stake; Thomas E. McKay, former president of Ogden Stake and acting president of the European Mission; Clifford E. Young, president of the Alpine Stake; Alma Sonne, president of Cache Stake; and Nicholas G. Smith, president of Northwestern States Mission. In announcing the appointment of these brethren, President Clark stated that the rapid growth of the Church in recent times, the constantly increasing establishment of new wards and stakes, the steadily pressing necessity for increasing the missions in numbers and efficiency, and the continual multi- (Continued on page 358) HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon. Now earth in flowered loveliness holds sway, And spreads her brilliant treasures o'er life's great highway MISS ANNA JARVIS, of Philadelphia, sent a note to a friend to spend a day with her. The day was April 10, 1907, which was the anniversary of her mother's death. During the visit, Miss Jarvis conceived the idea of making a day—the second Sunday in May—a universal holiday honoring "the best mother in the world—your mother," the observance to be the wearing of a white carnation. During the year of her untiring labor, through letters and public talks, she never contemplated the thought that the day would in any way be commercialized, and always held herself to the simple custom of giving and wearing flowers. Memorial Day, the other holiday in the month of May, is also a day of remembrance with flowers, sacred and solemn. Would that this year it might bring peace! HELEN WILLIAMS, I termed "Cattle Queen of Nevada," and only woman member of the Nevada State legislature, was considered one of the most efficient members of the assembly. Miss EMELINE YOUNG WELLS, prominent in civic and Church work, who died recently, was curator and guide in the relic hall at the Utah State Capitol for thirty years. For her remarkable service, the Daughters of Utah Pioneers dedicated a city rose garden in her honor. Beautiful Annie Low Rich, Page 352 of Ogden, leader in social and cultural activities, Elizabeth Cannon Giauque, specialist in home economics and catering, Jeanette Sharp Lenroot, of Tooele, and Mary Ray, of Fillmore, were among a group of notable Utah women who died this spring. EDITH NOURSE ROGERS, of Massachusetts, has introduced a bill in Congress to grant women army status in the War Department, placing them in arsenal work under civil service. FAY LUCILLA COX, world's champion woman parachutist, has been assigned to inspect and train air corps cadets at the Rankin Aeronautical Academy at Tulare, California. LADY NANCY ASTOR, who is Mayor of Plymouth—an English town which suffered a recent air raid —is now in trouble with the laborite leader because she raises flowers on her estate instead of vegetables. HYLLIS BENTLEY is "spinning tales" in America on her book, "What is Happening in England now." Ellen Glasgow's, "In This Our Life," Phyllis Bottome's, "Mansion House of Liberty," and Vicky Baum's, "The Ship and the Shore," are late novels with a war background written by women. Anne Jarvis, a Utah girl, has just issued a volume of original poems.  

Vol. 28 MAY, 1941 No. 5 EDITORIAL The Strength Of Testimony A TESTIMONY of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is a priceless possession. He who has one is indeed blessed. His life has direction and purpose. He is fortified to meet the tempests, and his soul knows peace. He has an appreciation of the true and abiding values of life, while the glittering, shallow, superficial things which challenge the efforts and waste the energies of many men, do not trouble him. He goes forth to meet each day with a love of God and man in his heart and with the calm assurance that that God whom he loves also loves him and will direct his course and bless his pursuits. A testimony is a living, growing thing. It is nourished by faith, prayer, learning, and the application in our daily lives of the principles which we believe; it is strengthened by expression, while powerful testimonies borne by others lend conviction to our own. Since the beginning of time, countless souls have_ possessed strong testimonies of the truth of the Gospel of our Lord. The ancient patriarchs, Adam, Seth, Enoch, Noah, and others, had the Gospel. They, no doubt, bore testimony of its truth. The testimony of Abraham was so strong that when the Lord commanded him to take his son Isaac, whom he loved, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there for a burnt offering, "Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his ass and took his son to the place which God had told him of." He built an altar and kindled the fire with his own hands and would have slayed his son in obedience to God's command had not an angel of the Lord stayed his hand, saying, "Lay not thine hand upon the lad... For now I know that thou fearest God." The disciples of Jesus knew of a certainty that He was the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Jesus asked them, "Whom do men say that I am?" And Simon Peter answered, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God." So powerful was Paul's testimony before King Agrippa that the King said unto Paul, "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian." In the latter days, the truth of 2523 Page 353 354 the Gospel has burned in the hearts of righteous men, and their testimonies have strengthened the wavering and pointed the way to "light and truth" for thousands of souls. Today we have in our midst good men who are great by virtue of the power of their testimonies. At our recent conference, we were privileged to hear these testimonies, and our own were strengthened because of them. Never in the vigor of his young manhood has the testimony of President Heber J. Grant been more impressive and more convincing than when, in the full ripeness of his years, he declared: "I know as I know that I live that it is God's work and that Jesus Christ is the Son of the Living God, the Redeemer-of the World." 'This testimony penetrated the hearts and touched the souls of all who heard it. The conviction of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., inspired the people with confidence in Church leadership when he said, "Of these things I have the same knowledge that I have that I live. Of all peoples, we are, with this knowledge, the most blessed on the earth." The sincerity of the testimony of President David O. McKay was trevealed in the concluding words of his address: a more marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. I most sincerely bear witness that  
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY, 1941
Josephine. "Besides, I want you to go with me. I've spotted the darlingest little hat to go with my black suit, and I want your opinion before I buy it." "Run along, Jo," said Alyn, indulgently. "Bea's right. I have three pounds to lose somehow. It will be just a brisk walk home." How shocked they would be if they knew that Alyn didn't have even trolley fare in her expensive purse. They must never know, decided Alyn grimly. Soon John would be settled, and they would forget this awful time. "John has gone over to Bradley and Coombes," she could hear herself saying, "such nice people to work for, a broader chance for advancement...." Or, "Fairbanks, Stocks and Bonds...." She might mention any one of a dozen fine old firms. Then they would look back on this time and maybe eventually joke about it. Thank goodness Bea and Wif hadn't had a closer look at John down at Milton's Nursery.
ALYN stopped to admire the hats in the window of Charlotte's Chapeaux. What gorgeous things they were! She had almost forgotten this little, exclusive shop. It had been months since she had been in it. She wondered who its buyer was now, and she caught herself making a mental note that she must buy her next hat there. Then she remembered that she wasn't in the market for a hat very soon. A well-dressed woman came out of the shop and walked up the street ahead of Alyn. One block, two, three, and then they were out of the business district. The woman was still five paces ahead of Alyn. Together, their footsteps made an
THE MERRY-GO-ROUND
odd little sound-pattern. Alyn fell to wondering about this woman. She was slim and wore her powder-blue and navy suit with an air of good breeding. She was faultlessly groomed; her clothes were immaculate and her shoes trim. She walked and carried herself with grace and dignity. Alyn found herself wishing for a glimpse of the woman's face. As if in answer to her wish, an envelope slipped from under the woman's arm and fell to the ground. "I beg your pardon," said Alyn, "you've dropped something." "Thank you," smiled the woman, stooping to pick it up. Without intention, Alyn saw the name on it?Judith Wyatt. She also saw that the girl's face was in keeping with the rest of her?a mingling of sweetness and reserve; patrician chiseled eyes, lips and nostrils; a modern woman without sophistication; a woman whose glance was straightforward and honest. She was beautiful without being pretty, and Alyn was aware that this attractive woman was to become a mother. "Isn't it wonderful to have spring again?" the girl said, falling into step with Alyn. "I love to walk." "I've become so lazy it's almost work for me," Alyn said. "I'm going to do more of it," then grimly to herself, "from force." They fell into conversation easily, talking with increased eagerness of peach blossoms and mental telepathy, of the latest book?agreeing with perfect understanding or disagreeing frankly without rancor. When Alyn turned in at the marble steps of the "Penguin," she had not talked enough to this woman. "I'm sorry to leave you," she said.
357
"My husband will be home for dinner soon. I suppose yours will, too." "How I wish that were true," said Judith Wyatt. "My husband died six weeks ago." She turned swiftly, too swiftly, and continued up the street. Alyn went slowly up the steps, regretting keenly her unwitting probe into this raw wound. Who might the girl be? She couldn't be Judge Oldham's daughter who had married the man from Boston; Judith Wyatt would be too young for her?about twenty-six or seven, Alyn guessed. Nor could she be the Churchill girl whom everyone said was awkward. Alyn knew all the fine, old families, but it was simply amazing how the younger generation grew up and out of your knowledge. "Who might this girl be!"
THE clock said five-thirty when she entered the house. John would be home in an hour, and what in the world would she prepare for him? She made a hasty inventory: There were greens enough for two skimp salads, a can of pork and beans and three slices of bread. Well, she would not eat bread. The two eggs and the slice of bacon, with one of the bread slices, would do for John's breakfast. Beyond that there was nothing. How ghastly! It was three more days until John's pay day. There was nothing she could cook, either, except a bit of rice in a package and a few prunes. She hadn't realized things were quite so bad. She was glad her mother hadn't lived to see this day. John soon came in, trailing bits of earth on the white tiles of the bathroom, talking endlessly of trees and bushes.
358
"We shipped trees enough for a whole orchard to a farmer out in Gillam. I'd like to see the orchard in ten years. Maybe we will. They were the finest trees in the world. I wish you could see those Lombardy Poplars, Alyn. They make the most beautiful sight. I'm going to bud that apricot sport if it turns out well. Mr. Milton gave it to me. I'll tell you, honey, there's something about a tree...." John sat down and helped himself plentifully to the beans, continuing his monologue until Alyn thought she must scream. The beans disappeared, the salad, and the bread slices, one by one. The dishes were bare; every one on the table was empty. John half reached for another helping, looking around in that helpless, hopeful way, and then laid down his knife and fork. "Is this all you have, honey? Mercy, I'm hungry. My appetite certainly improves working out-of-doors. I could eat twice as much. You'd better cook larger lots." "Cook larger lots?" said Alyn bitterly. "We're out of groceries entirely." "Out of groceries?" parroted John maddeningly. "Certainly! What did you think I
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MAY, 1941
might buy them with? What might I use for money?" Alyn couldn't resist asking. John's face was grave. "You can't mean we are out of money, Alyn? I gave you one at the first of the month. This was awful?actually to be fussing about food, like any common family. Alyn's answer was testy. "You gave me eighty dollars, John. That was to do for everything." "And quite enough, too, dear," said John reasonably. "You were to spend it for food." "Well, other things came up. I had forgotten about sending my winter things to the cleaner's. That was ten dollars I couldn't help spending. After all, if you have nice things they must have care." This was undignified, having to account for her money like a child caught stealing pennies. It was humiliating! How could John do this to her? At any rate, the money was gone, and John would have to do something?but she couldn't help wondering what. John offered no comment; he just read his paper with indifference. John was not the same man he used to be at all.