little thing, and watch her grow under the magic of service. There is a task ahead. Let us build together.
General Session—Afternoon
The Light Still Shines in the Darkness Counselor Marcia K. Howells
THE disciples of Jesus were chosen by Him many years ago to become messengers that they and their message should be a light in a world darkened with moral and spiritual gloom. Recently, at an electrical science exhibit, the marvels of which thrilled many Salt Lakers, the director displayed a small lamp no bigger than a lead pencil and half as long, and yet this lamp had the capacity of 1,000 watts and gave off light almost equal to that of a thousand candles. Somewhere in the attic of our home is an old candle mold once used by my grandmother. What a thrill it would be for her now to know that one small bulb is capable of generating more light than a thousand of her candles—and yet she prided herself on making good candles.
The Psalmist sang, "Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." (Psalms 119:105) In a world darkened by unbelief, distrust, and war now comes the light of our Gospel with its plan of salvation, not alone spiritual salvation, but temporal salvation also. I marvel at this great Church welfare program. I am proud of the important part the Relief Society has played in this great benefaction. What a "light in the darkness" this Church welfare program is! I heard a great banker from the coast say, after just one-half hour's visit to the Welfare Square, "This thing is so big, this program is so comprehensive, it makes the Mormon people the outstanding group in any society in America today."
Some of the best writers in America have recently accused us of being soft and weak—too much rich food, stimulation, overheated houses, automobiles and a general lack of discipline. I came from Chicago on the Union Pacific Railway recently. The roadbed follows the old Pioneer Trail. It is a long journey through Iowa, Nebraska, and Wyoming, and I grew weary and complained. Looking out of the window, I saw the Platte River, a great Pioneer landmark. I thought of the brave women in the handcart company walking all those weary miles pushing a handcart, caring for children, and preparing a scant meal over an open fire. I felt ashamed for complaining. Perhaps too much luxury is making us soft, and caused Dr. Alexis Carrell to say, "To combat dangers from within and without, the race must enormously strengthen itself. If there is to be any regeneration of our people, it must take place in the small laboratories of our private lives—daily drill and years of discipline in matters both large and small can make a man over in most of his conduct. Restraining our appetites for indulgence and indolence, for food, alcohol and tobacco, all these are priceless discipline."
Of all the memorials found in Westminster Abbey—and I hope that wonderful structure will survive the ruins of war—there is not one that gives a nobler thought than that life lesson taught by the monument to Lord Lawrence. Inscribed on the monument is simply his name, the date of his death, and these words: "He feared man so little because he feared God so much." The world is beset with so much distrust, so many fears—fear of famine, storms, earthquakes; the fear of disease, war and so many other things. Yet, there is so little "fear of God." I looked up the word, "fear," and found, with reference to God, it meant "solicitude and reverence for constituted authority." Fear of God is accompanied by obedience, and people who fear God will keep His commandments. I was interested in hearing of the sign that was posted during the bomb raids in England: "If your knees knock, kneel on them." Recently a juvenile court judge in one of our big cities, who over the years had interviewed 30,000 boys, gave ten reasons for their delinquency. The judge gave the first reason as "lack of religious training." He said that the strongest possible religious atmosphere is required to create righteous lives and that we are only better as we live better.
Job speaks of "a song in the darkness." To the Latter-day Saints the Gospel is now the "song in the darkness"—a song of hope that eventually the gloom will be dispelled; the song that whispers comfort to tired hearts weary with the stress of life. You mothers with missionary sons or daughters who carry this light to those who sit in darkness, how proud you should feel. How glorious is this Gospel light; how far its rays shine! My boy recently carried it to the country which writers have often referred to as "Darkest Africa." Today we have in that country chapels, Saints, investigators, and many friends. After laboring in South Africa, my missionary boy, along with other missionaries, regretted to leave that wonderful mission.
Ours is a religion of everyday life. It isn't folded up and put away with our Sunday clothes. It remained for Brigham Young to say: "We do not allow ourselves to go into a field to plow without taking our religion with us. We do not go into an office, behind the counter to deal out goods, into a counting house with the books, or anywhere to attend or to transact business without taking our religion with us. If we are on a pleasure trip our God and our religion must be there, and whether I am preaching or praying or laboring with my hands for an honorable support, I am serving God as much in one place as in another."
It seems to me that this is the doctrine that makes our religion "a light that shines in the darkness." In one of the Prairie states where twilight is short and darkness comes at sundown, there lived a little old grandmother and her small grandson, alone on a farm. Farm duties were many and arduous. The grandmother did the chores after dark, guiding herself around the barn and feeding and watering the cattle by the light of a little old lantern. The boy hung
 
on her skirts, stumbling because he could not see the way. Finally, he said, "Grandma, let us both carry the light, then we both can see the way." In Relief Society we all carry the light so we may all see the way. Martin Luther prayed long years ago, and his prayer is equally appropriate today: "Stand by me, O God, in the name of Thy dear Son, Jesus Christ, who shall be my defense and shelter, aye, my mighty fortress through the might and strength of Thy Holy Spirit."
The Gospel—Our Spiritual Armor President Amy Brown Lyman
IN support of our conference theme—"The Gospel—Our Spiritual Armor"—I should like to read an extract from Paul's epistle to the Ephesians: 6:10-18. "Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil... That ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; Above all, taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God: Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;"
As I face this great congregation of Relief Society members who are fortunate in their lives today, I am thinking of the more than 8,000 of our devoted members who are living in countries involved in this cruel war. They would fill this entire Tabernacle. I am thinking of those 8,000 homes filled with worry, anxiety, dread and sorrow. And with these we think also of the millions of others who are innocent victims of this terrible tragedy, and of how helpless we are in the matter. One thing we can do, however, is to pray earnestly that men's hearts will sicken and turn from this bloody carnage, and from the false philosophies which have brought it about. Another thing we can do is to try to live and encourage others to live according to the only pattern that will bring permanent peace and righteousness to the earth.
In these troubled days, people everywhere are naturally turning to serious thinking and are searching for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
something dependable with which to anchor their lives and their hopes. They feel the need of trying to do something which is sound and permanent. They ponder over government and politics, economic and social welfare, ethics and religion. And in their searchings, many are finding their greatest comfort and solace in religion, and are turning to their churches for help and inspiration. Our magazines and newspapers are devoting more space to religious subjects today than they have for many years; and editorials on the need of spirituality are appearing frequently. There is a definite trend in this direction.
It is interesting to observe that for a decade or more many of our great thinkers, outside of purely church circles, have been contending that "the greatest need in the world is religion"; that there should be a "return to religion"; "a recall to religion." It is regrettable that there is often a tendency for people, when they are successful and prosperous and the good things of life are theirs, to feel so adequate within themselves that they do not sense the need of spiritual guidance, and often forget even to be grateful to the Giver of all good; and that it is only when reverses come, when trials and tragedies come, and seemingly insurmountable barriers are placed before them, that they turn to God. But how wonderful that it is never too late to approach Him who is all-forgiving and ever ready to help guide and protect His children, and shower blessings upon them if they will but seek Him and His ways!