Relief Society Conference April, 1941 Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
"The Gospel—Our Spiritual Armor" was the theme of the semi-annual general conference of Relief Society, held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, April 2 and 3, 1941. This theme characterized not only the general sessions in the Tabernacle on Thursday, but was evident in the officers' meeting and department sessions of Wednesday. Counselor Marcia K. Howells was chairman of the April conference committee on arrangements, which included ten other members of the General Board. Inasmuch as the Society is in the final year of preparation for the observance of its centennial in 1942, and inasmuch as its objective is 100,000 members by that time, centennial and membership plans were special features of this conference.
Schedule of Meetings
President Amy Brown Lyman presided at the officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall which opened the conference on Wednesday, and at the two general sessions held in the Tabernacle on Thursday. Eight department meetings, held Wednesday afternoon at the times and places indicated in the accompanying schedule, were conducted by their respective chairmen. The schedule lists the various meetings comprising the conference, and includes the reception held Wednesday evening and the presidents' breakfast held Thursday morning, together with their respective chairmen of arrangements. Counselor Howells presided at the breakfast, which was open to stake and mission Relief Society presidents, or their official representatives. All Wednesday sessions of the conference, and the reception, were for stake and mission officers and board members. The two general sessions in the Tabernacle on Thursday were open to all Relief Society officers and members, and the public.
SCHEDULE OF MEETINGS
Wednesday, April 2, 1941 Officers' Meeting - Assembly Hall, 10:00 a.m.-12:00 noon - President Lyman - 1,000
Departments— Mormon Handicraft - 18th Ward Chapel, 2:00-2:30 p.m. - Nellie O. Parker - 250 Work Department - 18th Ward Chapel, 2:30-3:45 p.m. - Leda T. Jensen - 250 Social Welfare - Assembly Hall, 2:00-2:50 p.m. - Leona B. Fetzer - 400 Relief Society Magazine - Barratt Hall, 2:00-2:50 p.m. - Belle S. Spafford - 150 Centennial - Assembly Hall, 3:00-3:30 p.m. - Mary G. Judd - 400 Membership - Assembly Hall, 3:30-4:00 p.m. - Rae B. Barker - 400 Music - Barratt Hall, 3:00-4:00 p.m. - Beatrice F. Stevens - 150 Secretary-Treasurers - Young Building, 3:00-4:00 p.m. - Vera W. Pohlman - 110 Reception - Newhouse Hotel, 7:30-9:30 p.m. - Pauline T. Pingree - 800
Thursday, April 3, 1941 Presidents' Breakfast - Hotel Utah, 8:00-9:45 a.m. - Nellie O. Parker - 170 General Session - Tabernacle, 10:00-11:45 a.m. - President Lyman - 4,000 General Session - Tabernacle, 2:00-4:00 p.m. - President Lyman - 6,000
Representation and Attendance
Members of the Riverside Stake Relief Society Board were in constant attendance at the three main entrances to the Assembly Hall at all sessions held there on Wednesday, greeting the officers attending the meetings, distributing printed programs, and assisting in the registration of attendance. All twenty-two members of the General Board were present at the conference. One hundred thirty-six of the total of 137 stakes of the Church responded to the roll call in the officers' meeting—all but Oahu in Hawaii. Although most of the stakes are concentrated in western United States, the three eastern stakes—Chicago, New York, and Washington—were represented, as were the three stakes in Western Canada—Alberta, Lethbridge, and Taylor—and also Juarez in Mexico. Eleven mission Relief Society presidents were also in attendance, representing nine of the twelve missions with headquarters in the United States—all but Eastern States, New England, and Spanish-American—and including the Canadian and Mexican missions. A meeting of these eleven mission Relief Society presidents with the general officers and editor of the Magazine was held Monday, April 7, at 10:00 a.m., in the offices of the General Board, for the consideration of the special problems of Relief Society in the missions.
President Heber J. Grant sent a written message (reproduced in full on back of frontispiece) to the conference, which was read at the closing session in the Tabernacle by Counselor Marcia K. Howells. President David O. McKay addressed the final session of the conference, honoring the Tabernacle audience with his presence throughout the entire meeting. His address, "Today's Need—Spiritual Awakening," developing the theme of the conference, will be printed in full in a later issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Also to be presented in full in a future issue of the Magazine are the addresses of Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin of the Presiding Bishopric, "Relief Society—An Aid to the Bishops," and of Elder Stringham A. Stevens, member of the General Church Welfare Committee, on "Church Welfare," both of which were delivered in the department meeting on social welfare.
Supporting the Relief Society in its objective of 100,000 members by the end of this year, Lucy Grant Cannon, President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, May Green Hinckley, General Superintendent of the Primary Association, and Oscar A. Kirkham, member, National Staff, Boy Scouts of America, and Executive Secretary of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, all addressed the first general session in the Tabernacle, which was devoted to the anticipation of the Relief Society centennial. Elder George D. Pyper, General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union, offered the invocation at this session. General officers of the Church auxiliaries, and wives of the General Authorities of the Church also attended various sessions of the Relief Society conference, including Vilate R. Ivins, Addie E. Hardy, and Rachel Grant Taylor, wives of members of the First Council of Seventy, who offered prayer at the general sessions. The invocation at the officers' meeting was given by Ella P. Bennion, president of Oquirrh Stake Relief Society, and the benediction by Mary L. Barton, president of North Davis Stake Relief Society. General, stake, and mission officers were honored at the evening reception by the presence of President and Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
Music at the Conference
Devotional organ music by Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle Organist, appropriately began the first session of the conference in the Assembly Hall. Lily Priestley rendered organ music at the close of this meeting, and at the beginning and end of the department meetings held in the Assembly Hall, and also accompanied the congregational singing at all meetings in the Assembly Hall, which was directed by Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee. The Relief Society rally song, "A Hundred Thousand Strong," composed by Mrs. Stevens, was sung at the close of the membership department in the Assembly Hall, under the direction of Agnes M. Bolto, president of Granite Stake Relief Society, and at the close of the first general session in the Tabernacle, under the direction of Laura B. Heslop, chorister of North Weber Stake Relief Society. Especially featured at both general sessions of the conference were the combined choruses of Singing Mothers from Mount Ogden, North Weber, Ogden, and Weber stakes, composed of approximately 325 singers, and directed in rotation by their respective stake directors, Mathel Ridges, Laura B. Heslop, Eva P. Greenwell, and Nellie Purrington. Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle Organist, was at the console during both general sessions.
Centennial Plans
Helps for stakes and wards planning for local observances of the centennial of Relief Society on its hundredth birthday, March 17, 1942, were presented at the centennial department, Wednesday afternoon. A summarized list of features being planned by various stakes, titled, "Glimpses of What Some Stakes Are Planning Looking Toward Their Centennial Observances," was distributed to the representatives of all stakes and missions in attendance. Additional copies are still available and may be had upon request to the office of the General Board. At the forenoon general session in the Tabernacle on Thursday, which was devoted to anticipation of the centennial, an unusual feature was the dramatization from the diary of a Relief Society woman, entitled, "Pioneer Portrait," presented through the medium of a radio broadcast, by KSL players, under the direction of Erma Felt Bitner, demonstrating the effectiveness of both this type of material and this means of presentation for a centennial observance. The radio continuity was arranged by Mary Grant Judd, chairman of the General Board's centennial committee. Mimeographed copies of the script, obtainable upon request to the office of the General Board, may be helpful to stakes planning to present this or similar historical material through the medium of a local public-address system.. Membership Growth Lending impetus to the closing months of the four-year campaign for increasing Relief Society membership by one-third to 100,

 —MAY, 1941

 members by 1942, was the membership department on Wednesday afternoon, the general session on Thursday forenoon, and an exten- — sive array of pictographs (reproduced elsewhere in this issue of the Magazine) exhibited in the Assembly Hall throughout the first day of the conference, and at the reception Wednesday evening. On display for the third consecutive year: was the membership arch, originated by Rae B. Barker, chairman of the membership committee, its softly lighted gold, blue, and white blocks appearing effectively against the rich brown wood of the Tabernacle organ. (For description and significance of the arch, see Relief Society Magazine, May, 1940, page 290.) An unusual feature of the Wednesday afternoon membership department was the "Inquiring reporter" interview with membership workers from five stakes. Mimeographed summaries of this feature, "The Inquiring Re: porter Interviews Membership Workers," are available to stake and mission membership workers upon request to the office of the General Board. Summarized Report of Proceedings Condensed accounts of the proceedings of the various sessions of the conference, presented according to the order of meetings listed in the schedule on page 288, follow. The minutes of the presidents' breakfast are an exception to the listed order, inasmuch as the instructions given by all three members of the General Presidency appear immediately following the official instructions of the President at the officers' meeting, and the two stake reports of welfare RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE projects, also given at the presidents' breakfast, will appear in connection with proceedings of the social welfare department. Space of the May issue of the Magazine is insufficient for the entire report of the conference proceedings, but this issue contains all addresses and material relating to the especially featured centennial and membership activities, which are to be printed, and also information as to the availability of those materials to be distributed only in mimeographed form. Otherwise, the only reports withheld from this issue are as follows: To appear in June issue— He 291 Tabernacle address of President David O. McKay; annual report of General Secretary-Treasurer given at the officers' meeting; entire report of proceedings of social welfare department, including also the two reports of welfare projects in Big Horn and Sharon stakes given at the presidents' breakfast. To appear in later issues— Talks given at the officers' meeting by three recently returned Relief Society mission presidents—"Our Lives—the Greatest Sermon," Mima M. Broadbent; "Spirituality in the Missions,” Mary T. Clayson; "The Heritage of the Mormon Home," Priscilla L. Evans; 'Tabernacle address, "Planned Living," by Vivian R. McConkie, member of the General Board; "Editorial Policies," given in Magazine department, by Belle S. Spafford.