For the strength of the Relief Society lies in its ability to engender faith in God and in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Faith is the gift which is to be ardently desired in these days when it would seem that the perilous times which have been prophesied are even now in the process of fulfillment. The ability of this organization to instill faith was demonstrated to me recently when I read a husband's biography of a noble woman of this Church. He speaks of her devotion to her Church activities and says: "But best of all she had faith in God, and her faith carried with a splendid force into the most important of our affairs. It was her doing in the main that our two boys went on missions. I wanted them to go when we were a little better prepared for it, but she wanted them to go before we became less able to send them." The past century has been aptly called "the woman's century," because so many marvelous opportunities have been given to women for the enrichment of their lives and their personal development. Dozens of organizations have sprung into existence to meet the demands of women. But what is there about the Relief Society which makes membership in it such a soul-satisfying experience? Why should this organization in preference to other women's organizations of the world possess with such distinction this quality of nurturing faith? In the first place, the very origin of this organization was within the Restored Church, the true Church, and came into existence by the will of a prophet of God who had seen our Heavenly Father and who had received revelations from Him. Sometimes we are prone to view this matter rather casually, when in reality this fact is of great significance. In the second place, this organization has functioned from the beginning under the direction of the Priesthood, and receives the advice and counsel of men entitled to inspiration from God. We do not stand alone in the work which we plan, but are sustained and guided by such direction. In the third place, most of the women composing this organization have been baptized and had hands laid upon their heads by those in authority and have been given the gift of the Holy Ghost, which will guide and direct them and show them things to come. These days are days when error is rampant. Satan realizes that the time is short, and he is diligent in leading astray all the souls he can deceive. It is vitally necessary, therefore, for us to have the Spirit of the Lord with us to lead and direct us and assist us in realizing the difference between truth and error. Then again, women in this organization learn faith in God and love for Him because they are provided with opportunities for charitable expression. This organization has a marvelous amount of good will to its credit wherever it has existed, because without thought of earthly remuneration, thousands have gone about "doing good" even with the same spirit which characterized the Savior's earthly ministry. The need determined the service, and the more urgent the need, the greater the service. A year from now we shall be celebrating the centennial. A glorious centennial hinges on our ability to bring into the organization every woman who can belong, and to have her actively interested. Our arms are extended to women of good character. The title of "Sister," by which we address one another, is indicative of the love we have for each other. All of us are more or less acquainted with the work missionaries of this Church have done, but do we visualize the membership drive as a missionary program? We were amazed and delighted at the work done by the home missionaries in the stakes of this Church last year when there were baptized, by their efforts, 2,203 people into the Church. Mothers can be missionaries, too, in the upbuilding of God's kingdom by laboring with those who are born within the Church to retain them as active members. We want 100,000 such missionaries in as many homes, promoting the cause of righteousness and strengthening Zion preparatory to the second coming of the Savior. A large membership and a glorious centennial are connected. Now you say, "But what can I do, as an individual, with my limited power to enlist women in the Relief Society?" I think the key to the growth of this Society lies in the spirit of friendliness which each member may display. Powerful nations of the earth have today become indifferent in their attitude toward the individual, who has been swallowed up within the State. The complexity of our own national society has dulled our feelings of obligation to the individual. The world generally has become too busy and the relationships too impersonal. I like to visualize the vast army of Relief Society women as possessing the personal touch. I like to visualize them as individuals who have learned the give and take of human association; women who have a great sympathy for all the dreams of humans and a loving understanding of all their harassed ways. Because we are women and because we possess the Gospel, we are particularly blessed by both nature and training to further a mission of kindness. All of us have hoarded friendliness, hoarded handclasps, hoarded good will, while in our own vicinities some of our sisters sit apart unknown to us but yearning for recognition and some small display of friendliness. Yet we might say: "... The things we may do seem so small often—hardly big enough to count in life's full flow of pressing material needs—but the greatest Friend man ever had went about doing small acts of kindness: feeding the hungry, mending the broken, comforting the sorrowing, pointing a way, reviving the spark of hope in the dead ashes of endeavor, offering a hand to people in the depths of despair... And He did it for the people round about Him. And because many of these remembered and passed the good of it on to another, steadily multiplying the will to help, now, after nearly 2,000 years, His way is still fresh before us—the only way." And what will this leaven of humility and friendship accomplish? Let me illustrate it by quoting from a recent letter written by the wife of one of the mission presidents: "In talking to a Relief Society president in a little branch at..., she told me that when her family moved into the town they found a number of women who had been born in the Church but had gotten clear away from it.... She was anxious for a Relief Society, but not one of the women except herself was really living so as to be a leader. So this valiant little woman, in her sweet and tactful way, encouraged these other women to live right and help her to build a real Relief Society. She  has done a most commendable piece of work, and I found a really wonderful group of humble women serving their Heavenly Father and their neighbors." Will you share the wealth of the Relief Society with others this coming year by interesting your neighbor? Will you serve and love as Jesus did, in all humility, even more individuals than heretofore? Will you extend the mother love which you possess and which stretched to encompass each succeeding child, to now encircle those who are hungering for recognition? Beneath the insecurity and the materialism which surrounds us, will you guide and enlist those who would strengthen their faith? + Our Sister Organizations Speak The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association President Lucy Grant Cannon HE Relief Society organization is the pride of the women of the Church. The Mutual Improvement Associations of the Church are looking forward to participating with you in your centennial. Jubilees were established by direct commandment of God. In the days of early Israel, each seven years was a year of rest for the land. Every fifty years not only did the land rest, but it reverted to its original owner. Slaves and bondsmen were freed, and the people celebrated various events that had occurred during the fifty years that had passed. Epochal events have always been and, I hope, always will be celebrated. 'The birth and glorious resurrection of Christ will be celebrated till the end of time. The great centennial of the Church, to those of us permitted to participate, was the most outstanding event of our lives. The fifty years of M. I. A., celebrated 15 years ago, brings back memories of the beauty and strength of our youth. As I watched 10,000 virile, handsome, valiant young people march under the banners of truth down the streets of Salt Lake, I uttered a silent prayer of thankfulness to my Father in Heaven, for it was borne in upon RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE my soul that our youth would not fail the great cause of the Church. Sister Lyman and I were permitted to attend the centennial of the woman's movement in November of last year. There was gathered at the Hotel Commodore, in New York City, women from all over the United States, Canada, Mexico and South America. These women had come together to celebrate the efforts made by women of America to get immediate admission to all the rights and privileges that belong to them as citizens of the United States. One hundred years ago, a group of women who were the approved delegates from the Anti-Slavery Society of the United States spent eighteen days on a sailing vessel to attend a convention in London. They presented their credentials, but instead of a hearty welcome, the first day of the congress was spent debating the question as to the right of these women to take their seat with men, a thing unheard of before in history. The final decision was that the women might stay, but they should sit behind a curtain and hear the reports. It is interesting to know that several of the men who were in the delegation would not sit with the body of delegates, but sat with the women behind the curtains. On returning home, these women began a militant fight for the rights of women. Although it took seventy years before they were given free suffrage in all the states of the Union, they steadily obtained all the rights which made them equal in citizenship with their husbands and brothers. HE) women of the world have gone far since that day one hun- 387 dred years ago. One hundred years ago, no woman stood in the pulpit or presided over a meeting; one hundred years ago, no woman was a clerk in any store—men measured ribbons behind the counter. When one intrepid merchant put a woman behind his country store counter, his store almost had to close because the people of the town boycotted it. Three avenues of support were open to the unmarried woman—she could be a maid, a school teacher for the lower grades or in a private home, or she could be a nurse or midwife. Today practically every field is open to women— science, literature, medicine, theology, social service, business, law; in fact, all the professions. With what pride do we women of the Church point to that epoch-making event when Joseph Smith called a group of young women together and organized them. One of my very early recollections is of the celebration in the 13th Ward of the Relief Society anniversary. Grandmother had a copy of the original minutes. This document was taken to the Society and read yearly. I remember reading it with much interest. The history of the Relief Society is one of glorious achievement. Countless thousands of women have been helped through its activities. Countless thousands of people in distress and despondency have been rehabilitated and made happy and secure.