In selecting stake delegations, a number of things must be taken into consideration, including the musical ability of the women, the fact that the women will have to be away from home for three or four days or more, that the trip will be expensive, and that the women themselves will have to bear the financial burden of it. Mrs. Stevens also announced that, in further preparation for the centennial music program, a music department is to be held at the coming October conference. In the meantime, specific instructions as to music for the centennial, as well as other information, will be published at frequent intervals in the "Notes to the Field" department of the Relief Society Magazine. It was recommended that new officers read and study the series of articles by Wade N. Stephens, beginning with the article entitled, "The Conductor and the Organist," published in the September, 1939, issue of the Magazine, page 630. These articles continue through the issues of October and December, 1939, and of January to May, 1940, inclusive. J. Spencer Cornwall, conductor of the Tabernacle Choir, gave a discussion and demonstration entitled, "Be the Conductor Who Conducts," emphasizing the importance of expression. Wade Naisbitt Stephens, Tabernacle Organist, assisted by Alta B. Cassity, pianist, instructed the choristers and organists in the rendition of the cantata, "Resurrection Morning."
Secretary-Treasurers Department
THE time of the secretary-treasurers' department, Wednesday afternoon, was devoted entirely to a consideration of the next edition of Relief Society record books and visiting teachers' report books, which are to be issued toward the close of this year and to go into use at the beginning of the year 1942. Each stake and mission representative attending the department received a tentative copy of the new visiting teachers' book, and of the new ward record book, in preliminary proof form. These proofs formed the basis of the discussion, and were retained by the secretaries in attendance for further consideration and discussion with ward presidents and secretary-treasurers at their next union meeting. The suggestions of many stakes and wards for changes in the record books previously submitted at the request of the General Secretary-Treasurer, had been taken into consideration in the preparation of the tentative proofs distributed at the conference; it is hoped that further consideration of these preliminary copies in the various stakes will engender additional suggestions for improvement, or general approval of the proposed changes already incorporated in the proofs.