CALIFORNIA $4499 ¢43 84 10 CANADIAN $#$99066006 20 MES MHNNNGH OA STATES Sn ae ee STATES SUTesiOns #HEHEERORG HAWAIIAN § $89949R888 MEXICAN §$$SSSS0006. NEW ENGLANDSS 44488858 NEW ZEALANDS AS99840 008 STATES #48088 NORTHERN $§H 40645806 NST RTES SAREEGHEES 2 SAMOAN §=- 488 448 SORERICAN S#444G6 688 1 STATES #40086H006 AMERICAN  TAHITIAN TEXAS TONGAN WESTERN STATES MISSION RANK  Centennial Department Pageants Nellie O. Parker Relief Society General Board Member THE Relief Society centennial calls for a very impressive and delightful observance. A beautiful pageant, carefully planned and effectively staged, is one appropriate means of commemorating this great once-in-a-lifetime occasion. The pageant, in which action is carried on by groups rather than individuals, is a very valuable means of awakening community interest and spirit, and it offers many opportunities for friendly cooperation. It can crystallize sentiment and foster ideals. Through the medium of both the eye and the ear, the emotions are stirred, the soul is uplifted, and one receives a rich, spiritual experience. The pageant probably originated with the old mystery plays which were enacted on platforms drawn along the street. Modern pageantry, however, is more than a mere spectacle. It is dramatic in construction, and consists of scenes or episodes directly bearing on a historical, educational, social or allegorical theme treated from an aesthetic standpoint. A true pageant is beautiful and artistic. According to Linwood Taft, a collection of historical scenes is not really a pageant unless each contributes to the upbuilding of the general theme and moves toward a climax. He says the episodes or scenes should be gems strung together on a golden thread of plot or continuity. The pageant may employ speech, pantomime, dancing, marching, music, singing and colorful pictures. The effectiveness of the presented picture will depend on the vividness of the episodes—the grouping and massing of color, the costumes, stage and lighting effects, the quality of the speeches and dialogues, the beauty of the dancing and the appeal of the music. There should be proper balance and blending of all the arts employed—music, drama, poetry, color harmony in costumes, and stage pictures. Each must contribute to the theme. No one art should be overworked; for example, there should not be too much reading, dancing, singing, et cetera. "The costuming and its coloring," says Nina Lamkin, "constitute one of the most important parts of the pageant." The director of costumes should be familiar with a wide range of colors and materials to avoid monotony and secure harmony and beauty in the pictures. An understanding of fabrics is necessary—silk reflects light, wool gives soft tones, while cotton absorbs light. White satin, when decorated with aniline dyes, makes elaborate costumes. Turkish toweling treated to a coat of aluminum paint makes a good coat of mail. A pageant should attract rather than repel; a poor pageant defeats its own purpose. As the pageant has recognized dramatic and artistic form, there are rules governing its writing and production. (See "Pageantry," by J. Karl Wood, published in the January, 1941, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, page 26.)
Other Possibilities for Our Centennial Programs Anna B. Hart
Relief Society General Board Member
PROBABLY never before have Relief Society women in all stakes worked more definitely, more purposefully, more cooperatively, and more zestfully, than at present. Relief Society women in all stakes are striving to know more of a century in all its moods and accomplishments. From the oldest stake to the newest, from the most densely populated to the most scattered, all stakes are planning an observance on March 17, 1942. What a privilege it will be to work during the hundredth year. The pageant, one of the most widely selected means for observance, has already been treated. Now I will suggest other possibilities.
Organization
First, let us consider organization. The centennial observance should be a great leadership project. It should be so great that it touches every woman. The material should be chosen wisely. Getting material involves time and research. If research committees were organized early and would spend a few hours a week, what an enormous amount could be accomplished. An attempt should be made to obtain cooperation with all groups who have information and interest in this great project. We should become acquainted with the research projects of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers; we should get clubs and other organizations interested, as well as our business houses. We should get all women working on one committee or another. We should seek cooperation from our families and the other great organizations of our Church, and always seek guidance from those who hold God's Priesthood. Many ways will be used to stimulate interest in this huge observance. Some stakes will organize and sponsor contests in pageant-writing, in song-writing and poetry-writing. Others will gather authentic Relief Society stories. You have been given today a mimeographed copy of an authentic story, which is a sample of a type of story dealing with typical Relief Society projects and Relief Society members, such as the centennial committee hopes the local organizations will collect for use in their centennial observances. This story which you have, might be an inspiration to all of us to find stories of Relief Society in our own locality. We should catalogue pieces of information obtained from our observation and reading. A newspaper clipping, for example, often becomes very valuable.
Approaches to Learning
Second, let us consider approaches to the learning of a given thing:
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
(1) Studying the thing itself. We all agree that if we could have every experience firsthand, if we could see all places and become acquainted with all through actual living, other search would not be necessary. Most of our experiences are limited, and our life span is not a century. So after we have exhausted our knowledge here, we attempt other approaches.
(2) Studying a picture or representation of the thing. It will be necessary for all to choose wisely from the past. It will be necessary to choose methods just as wisely. The commercial world discovered long ago that one of the most effective and universal means of appeal is through pictures, charts, diagrams, posters, slogans, placards, et cetera. The number of visual and auditory aids has increased tremendously in recent years as new developments have opened up greater possibilities for their use. Within the last few years, new forms have appeared. Among these are the motion picture, radio, phonograph, museum, lantern slides, film strip, opaque projector, and sound slide film. Visual aids will be used by the stakes in many of their programs. Where there is a public address system, it can be very helpful at the centennial observance: voices can be projected and much can be done effectively without the need of costumes. The exposure of a picture for a few seconds will often produce more accurate and more vivid images than will a verbal description involving several minutes of talk. March 17, 1942, will be a time of exhibits with unlimited possibilities. One stake will exhibit a "Still Parade" of miniature floats suggesting some of the Relief Society activities of the century, such as, westward trek, wheat, maternity, welfare, et cetera. The parade will be stationary, and the crowds will do the moving. There will be exhibits of the educational work of Relief Society through the century. Costumes of a hundred years will come to light, and they will be displayed attractively. The choicest of art needlework of the past span will be shown—quilts with intricate designs and the finest of stitches, handwoven material, hooked rugs, and even old furniture will remind us of the industry of Relief Society women. Other types of creative work of Relief Society women would add color and culture in the form of painting, etching, wood carving, and sculpture. There will also be on exhibit completed centennial arches that will be a credit to many a ward and stake. One of the spots in the exhibit room, where we would enjoy lingering longest, might be a Relief Society picture gallery—a gallery of portraits. How fascinating could be such an exhibit, properly labeled. Many dramatizations, and dramatic forms, will be represented in tableau or represented life situations. The stage setting, costume, lighting, and mechanical effects will be sufficiently effective to create the necessary illusion as to place and character.
(3) Being told about it. What a wealth of material can be given to us from the older Relief Society women in our communities, who have seen many years of the century. Their sons and daughters can also give much valuable information.
(4) Reading about it. Copies of the Relief Society Magazine and the Woman's Exponent are precious. Each article has a background that if known could enrich our knowledge greatly and be stimulating for centennial programs. What a valuable Handbook we own in our Relief Society. Old roll books and minute books should offer us much material. What intimate glimpses of character we can often get from a letter or diary. Always the true life stories which can be found through reading stimulate us and give us rich material for our programs. How many stories must have been retold at rag-bees and quiltings. We can read about them, and they can stimulate us and give us rich material for our programs. As Daniel Webster once said, "We live in the past by a knowledge of its history, and in the future by hope and anticipation...." So again we live the lives which our ancestors lived, endure in part what they endured, and "partake in the rewards which they enjoyed." One stake is planning to obtain a plot of ground and plant trees in memory of Relief Society women. Many stakes are planning booklets. Some suggest membership scrapbooks with pictures and life sketches of all present members. Others suggest historic scrapbooks. Many centennial books of remembrance will be made. The members of one stake are planning to make a Relief Society cook book compiled from recipes submitted by members. There will be 1942 souvenirs for all members of many stakes. Many beautification projects have been suggested—centennial flower shows, home-betterment projects, more attractive gardens. Many will find hidden beauty or make the commonplace have a different glow.
Observance
Third, let us consider observance. Much might be said concerning the possibilities of centennial observance. In many stakes, music will play a very important part in the programs. It is a "blender of soul with soul." Probably in every stake Singing Mothers will participate; hymn festivals and concerts will be given. One suggestion would be a hymn festival using hymns of our earlier gifted women: Eliza R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Emily Woodmansee, Suza Young Gates, Hannah Cornaby and others. Some stakes might feature original songs and home stake writers. Many stakes will feature, somewhere in the series of observance events, the dance. Old-time dancing will be featured, such as the plain quadrille, varsovienne, schottische, polka, waltz, two step, et cetera. Banquets are planned by many stakes—and such original ideas. One stake will feature old-time and modern dishes. Of course, most stakes will have birthday cakes with one hundred candles, but one stake has planned to let the oldest and newest member blow out the candles. For place cards, old portraits of women could be used. Silhouettes of the Relief Society officers would be interesting as place cards, or as hall decorations. Picnics, festivals, receptions and numerous other activities will be held. Dramatic sequences, plays, pantomimes, and tableaus will be used in many programs. Story-telling "fests" would be appropriate. An informal stage grouping featuring true experiences could be given and stories beautifully retold. A Relief Society poetry festival as one part of the observance might offer sincere enjoyment. Many women could also participate in reading poetry written by Relief Society women, and those especially gifted could read their own. There are many more forms of observance.
Tangible Results
In planning the programs for different stakes, tangible results are anticipated. Many stakes are planning to leave something to their wards and stakes—a plaque, a complete and accurate bound history, a memory book, a picture. Probably some stakes will leave a box of valuable memories to be opened in twenty-five or fifty years.
Conclusion
Many of these have been your suggestions for observance. We know that the field of choice is wide, but always in the choosing a great objective should be kept in mind, and the spiritual power of this great observance should always be felt. Many of your programs are crystallized by now. Stakes are conscious that it takes time, many parts and people to make a whole. Many stakes will choose carefully, but not too much, and do especially well what is chosen. The presentations will be honest, full of human interest, real. Some part of the program will be delicately seasoned with humor. Humility and prayer will lift all observances. The observance will be a time of appreciation and thanks to all—a time of friendliness, a time of greater neighborliness, a joyful period. Through it all, there should be spirituality and love, and deep appreciation.
Music Department
PLANS for the appearance of choruses of Singing Mothers at local celebrations of the coming Relief Society centennial, and also at the general observance to be held in Salt Lake, characterized the music department. Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee, announced that, as part of the general centennial observance, it is planned that a large chorus of Singing Mothers will be assembled for an evening concert, presenting, as a part of the program, "Resurrection Morning," by B. Cecil Gates. The present plan is to invite each stake and mission to send nine women to participate in the chorus. Mrs. Stevens explained that each group is to be well balanced and to consist of three first sopranos, three second sopranos, and three altos.