Mormon Handicraft Department
Mormon Handicraft Marches On
Lucile W. Wolf, manager of the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, demonstrated a variety of unique and attractive articles from the Shop which sell unusually well, and emphasized the importance of good materials, care in the selection of colors, and perfection in workmanship. She told of the increasing demand for certain articles which is extending to a growing number of women the opportunity for marketing their handiwork. As the first example of stakewide participation, she told of the Nampa Stake Board Relief Society, which has sponsored the making of saleable articles in all wards of the stake, netting hundreds of dollars for the several women consigning their handiwork to the Shop. Women were urged to specialize in designs which have historic interest, such as the seagull, the sego lily, wheat and pioneer motifs. The coming Relief Society centennial in 1942 and the Utah centennial in 1947 are expected to center interest on the Society and the State, increasing the demand for Mormon handicraft.
How Relief Society Can Encourage Handicraft
Appealing to leaders of Relief Society work meetings to take advantage of the time allowed for handiwork, Luella N. Adams, member of the General Board's Mormon Handicraft Committee, spoke of the importance of preserving native American skills and also those brought from foreign lands by converts to the Church. She encouraged work leaders to seek out women with special skills in handiwork, and to arrange for them to teach others at the monthly work meeting. Although the principal purpose of this meeting is to sew for the needy, welfare sewing service ordinarily does not occupy the entire time of all the women in attendance, and many of them welcome the opportunity to teach and learn handiwork of various types, such as tatting, netting, crocheting, knitting, weaving, and fine quilting. Opportunity for creative expression on this day will arouse interest and enthusiasm in the work meeting and may also be the means of bringing into the Society as new members many women who can make a valuable contribution.