The Work Department
Sewing Exhibits
Of special interest to sewing leaders, as well as to other Relief Society workers, were the exhibits representative of three types of sewing projects—remodeled used clothing, utilization of knit-goods remnants, and clothing made from new material in Relief Society work meetings. These exhibits were on display Wednesday afternoon and all day Thursday in Whitney Hall, where the sessions on Mormon Handicraft and the Relief Society work department were held. The exhibit of remodeled clothing was arranged by Adelia Busch, manager of women's department, Northern Utah Region of Church welfare program, who talked on conservation of clothing, and who distributed, upon request, hundreds of paper patterns of designs well adapted to the utilization of used clothing. Emma G. Phillips, president of Liberty Stake Relief Society, described not only the special project conducted by the Tenth Ward, where remnants of knit goods were converted into a variety of clothing, but exhibited many useful novelties work meetings in her stake. The representative array of clothing made from new materials was selected and arranged by Emma J. Barton, manager of women's department, Salt Lake Region of the Church welfare program, who told of the value to the Salt Lake Regional storehouse of the sewing service given during the 1940-41 season at the regular monthly ward sewing meetings of Relief Societies of the Salt Lake Region.
Relief Society At Work
(a) Conservation
Adelia Busch, manager of women's department, Northern Utah Region of the Church welfare program, emphasized the opportunity presented by the Relief Society work meeting for teaching and demonstrating the importance of consistent remodeling of clothing as a means of family economy. Many women who come to the welfare sewing center have never used a needle and know nothing about drafting or using patterns or cutting materials. She decried the general lack of information and skill on the part of mothers and homemakers in making the best use of the materials at hand, in using a needle, and in drafting or using patterns and cutting materials. Most women, however, are eager and willing to learn to help themselves if given the opportunity. At the Church welfare sewing center of the Northern Utah Region, one day a week is set aside as "opportunity day," when anyone is welcome to come for advice or to secure patterns to help them with their sewing in the home. Following is an example of the value of this service. One woman reported that she had six boys, but that only two of them could go to Church at the same time, as the family could afford to buy only one large jacket and one smaller one, and that the three larger boys and the three smaller ones were taking turns going to Sunday School. This mother was taught to make the required jackets from used coats which were made available to her, the only cost being 55 or 60 cents per jacket for the necessary elastic and zippers. The next week all six of her boys were in attendance at Sunday School. A little personal attention opens a new world of interest and activity for mothers. Stating that wasted clothing is extravagance, that the remodeling of clothing is not a sign of poverty, but of good judgment and economy, Mrs. Busch appealed to work leaders to make a valuable contribution to the general welfare and social adjustment of the people of the Church by converting them to the good sense and economy of remodeling and properly caring for the clothing they already have.
(b) Ingenuity
Emma G. Phillips, president of Liberty Stake Relief Society, described the experimental project in the use of remnants of knit goods which was conducted at work meetings during the 1940-41 season by the Tenth Ward Relief Society of this stake, at the suggestion of the General Board. Twenty-five women participated in this project, giving a total of 191 hours of sewing service. The total cost of the remnants, findings, and supplementary material was $14.17, from which a variety of 37 articles was made at an average cost per garment of 38 cents.
(c) Welfare
Emma J. Barton, manager of the women's department, Salt Lake Region of the Church welfare program, told of the value of and some of the problems involved in the sewing service given in the interest of the Church welfare program by the Relief Societies of the Region at the monthly sewing meeting during the 1940-41 season. This project was conducted as an experiment, under the direction of the General Board, and in cooperation with the Salt Lake Region. Now nearing successful completion, this project has demonstrated the effectiveness and values of this type of Relief Society cooperation with the Church welfare program, chief among which Mrs. Barton listed the three following factors: 1. The project has stimulated an awareness of the Church welfare program among hundreds of women, who, because of their fortunate financial conditions, are not otherwise brought into close contact with the welfare phase of Church work, and who have now had opportunity to labor with their hands to help provide for those less fortunate than themselves. 2. It has provided a uniform program for the monthly Relief Society work meeting which has been both instructive and productive. 3. By producing about 3,500 articles, such as percale dresses and aprons, and outing, broadcloth and crepe sleeping garments, the Relief Societies relieved the regional sewing center to such extent that it was able to devote more time to the production of overalls, corduroy pants, work shirts, etc., made in connection with a training project in the operation of commercial power machines. Many women and girls, after a six-month training course on these machines, are placed in private industry.
Better Buymanship Leda T. Jensen Relief Society General Board Member
Women receive varying degrees of training for the manifold duties of homemaker. Some have formal, academic training, others receive their only training in the home of their parents in a very informal way. Many are continually striving to become more efficient in the home through attendance at classes conducted by state agricultural colleges, by the Parent-Teacher Association and other adult groups, by reading current periodicals and other literature, and by listening to radio programs. Our economic status, our health and that of our family, the size of our family, and our desire to improve, determine the amount of time we have and are willing to devote to self-improvement in the field of homemaking. The importance of the home is being recognized more and more by individuals and organizations interested in the welfare of mankind. There is no more important work for women than that of homemaker and mother, but all too often a girl receives far less concentrated, consciously directed training for this important part of her life than for almost any other field of interest. Every mother deserves credit for all the help she gives her daughters in preparation for building their own homes, but changing concepts of the techniques of homemaking problems require our constant attention if we desire to learn and to grow in our ability to provide better homes. So, the General Board feels that any discussion carried forward on work-and-business day should center around subjects related to the home—homemaking subjects, which will help us to help ourselves in the most practical ways. We wish again to emphasize that discussions on this day are optional, depending on the time available and the needs of the wards. They should not detract from the successful completion of needed supplies for the poor and unfortunate. Also, the treatment of the subjects should be free, easy, and informal, and the discussion method of teaching used. For the past three years, we have offered for your consideration the important subject of nutrition. This year, 1940-41, the lessons have been published in the lesson department of the Relief Society Magazine. The same procedure will be followed for 1941-42, and the subject to be presented is consumer buying under the interesting, general title, "Better Buymanship." There are four definite activities connected with the homemaker's consumption program; namely, those of manager, buyer, user, and citizen. The lessons outlined will discuss problems connected with the consumer as buyer, and a further limitation, necessary because of time, will confine the subject to better buymanship of fabrics and clothing. There are several definite and important reasons why this subject has been chosen. These reasons are brought out in the first lesson of the course which will be published in the July issue of the Magazine. We feel that you will see the wisdom in the choice when you read the first lesson and those that follow, and when you try to incorporate in your buying the knowledge contained in the course, "Better Buymanship."