Our Sister Organizations Speak
The Primary Association Superintendent May Green Hinckley
I AM greatly complimented with the invitation to speak here this morning, and to cooperate in making the membership of the Relief Society one hundred thousand on its hundredth anniversary. My time is limited, so in five minutes I am going to give you five reasons for joining the Relief Society:
First, I want to be and ought to be a better woman than I am. There is not a woman in the Church who, in her finer moments, would not like to be a better woman, a better mother, a better example to her friends and family. This organization will help them; it will help me in many ways to be a better woman. It will direct me in my thinking, guide me in my actions, build up my faith, train my mind, school my feelings, inspire me with a love for others and for my Creator.
Second, the strong women in the organization need helping, reinforcing, and the weak ones in it need encouragement. I want to help the strong women who are struggling to carry forward the mission and purpose of this great organization. They will appreciate the help I can give. They need and deserve the help, and I ought to give it to them. By my example, I can help the weak members. By my words, I can encourage them. By my deeds, I can win their confidence, inspire them to do more and to do better. I can help the strong and encourage the weak. That is my second reason.
Third, I can do good through the organization. The Relief Society is a wonderful organization, with definite aims and objectives that appeal to me. Its work is organized and planned with the greatest care, and it is officered by select women; all working together, we can accomplish wonders. We can direct legislation, bring about reformations, help those who are in need, help in emergencies, provide in times of adversity. How feeble the efforts of a single woman would be! I want to join the Relief Society because of the good I can do through it.
Fourth, inspiration and stimulation come through association with good women who are engaged in a great cause. Where will I find a group of women better in all that those words imply? Who could mingle with the humblest group of Relief Society women without being inspired with their self-forgetfulness in their service to others, their willingness to give and go without? You will find among them the real heroines of service. The cause itself appeals to one, awakens in one's soul the noblest impulses and inspires all who have the love of humanity in their hearts with a desire to help, to do something. I need that stimulation and inspiration. Therefore, I should join the Relief Society.
Fifth, I believe in preserving the sanctity of the home and the integrity of the family. Therefore, I want to support all the influences, efforts, and organizations that build these and protect them. Perhaps the major contribution which this great organization makes is the influence which it fosters at the fireside; the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
help which it gives mothers in building and making happy the home; the practical lessons it gives in making the home beautiful and attractive; the cultivation of that spirit which makes the home a refuge, a center of peace, love and faith. The Relief Society fosters all of the qualities that sanctify the home, that strengthen and protect the family. The home is the foundation of civilization, and this organization makes a direct and positive contribution to its advancement and protection. Therefore, I want to join it.
Together We Build Oscar A. Kirkham
Member, National Staff, Boy Scouts of America
I HAVE three enthusiasms about Relief Society work. One is the Singing Mothers, and I do not mean just singing in groups as this glorious chorus has sung for us this morning, but when I first heard the phrase, "Singing Mothers," it had great meaning to me. I thought of a night when I came home from the opera in Berlin, when I was a student. I was going to my little apartment in the third court back, where I was living on "bread and spread," literally, in order to stay with my studies. It was just at Christmas time, when on my way home I was halted by a sweet voice that I heard coming out of the basement in this third court back from the street. It was a woman—a woman who made her living washing. She was singing that song which has gone round the world—"Holy Night." I was halted by the sweetness of it, and I have never forgotten it. That same night I heard Melba in grand opera, but the singing mother down in the basement, singing a lullaby to her babe, crept closer to my heart. That is one of my enthusiasms about Relief Society, and I hope and pray that it will never give up this delightful activity of Singing Mothers, and may it creep out into every home, that women will sing there.
I have another enthusiasm, and that is the craft work that is done in Relief Society. I think there is magic in what people do with their hands. I invite everyone to make something with her own hands. My sister one day brought a relic to me of our family life years and years ago. My mother died when I was a boy of about eleven years, but when I saw the little white knitted stocking she had made, there was magic in that sight; there was something divine in it. Without further deliberation, God bless us with the spirit of making things into which we put our hands and hearts. May this be continued in Relief Society.
My other enthusiasm is a very general one to which I sincerely pay tribute, and that is the weekly Relief Society meeting. Why should a man have interest in that? Let me illustrate it by a story. It is about a friend of mine in Australia. It was a Sunday morning, and he was out with his sheep in the hills of Australia. He was weary; he was alone, way out in the hills by himself. There was no disturbance, only the moving of the sheep; all was quiet on that hillside. While he sat there, all at once he heard a voice. He looked around and wondered if it were his imagination, as he thought he was alone. But he heard a voice and, as it became more distinct, it was a singing voice, and then it came nearer, and in a few moments, over the hill, with the spirit of buoyant youth, a boy came, singing. With a bundle of books under his arm, over the hill he came singing, "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear"—the Latter-day Saint hymn. He was a Mormon missionary boy. My friend said, "I was so delighted with this charming entrance into my life that I said to this young fellow, 'Won't you stay with me a day or two? My, I have enjoyed your coming in this dramatic way.'" And the Mormon missionary boy, who had traveled from one city to another, came and stayed with the man and brought him the Gospel message. Here is the point: The boy came from a home where "Come, Come, Ye Saints" was sung by a Relief Society mother who was a constant attendant at the weekly Relief Society meeting, thereby adding greatly to the testimony of that missionary boy. These three are my enthusiasms, for I know that in these weekly meetings something came into the life of that mother that she gave to that boy, and over the hill he went singing the Gospel song and brought the Gospel message to a friend of mine, far, far away in the hills of Australia.
 
THIS organization has set its heart on a great task. There is no turning back. You cannot fail, and the men of the Church want to help you succeed. There must be 100,000 members in this organization on this centennial occasion. I want to say sincerely that I want to join with you. I want to sit down under this gallery when this celebration is on, and say, "It is mine. It belongs to me, for I have obtained one, two, or three new members." Please get this into your hearts, and then your goal will be accomplished. Why, if every member of this very group that is here today would take the responsibility of obtaining just three members—if every person who is in this house today would say, "I take the challenge; I know a person who lives nearby who is not a member. I am going to ask the Lord to help me to go into that home and bring that sister out," we would achieve our goal.
When but a lad, I sat in one of the windows of the Salt Lake Temple at the time of its dedication. Although young, I remember the inspirational story of the building of this sacred structure, how through the many years men toiled unceasingly in their devotion to its construction. Near me sat an old man. I remember his long beard, his kindly face, and the joy he had in telling friends nearby that practically through the entire period of construction he had assisted on the building. In later years I have often thought of this kindly face and the happiness of this man who that day knew that his hands, with many others, had made possible this home of sacred ceremonies and ordinances.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Just recently I was up at the mouth of Little Cottonwood Canyon. One of our fine organizations had placed a marker there. It tells the story that near this spot men toiled, cutting the granite rock from the mountain that went into the building of the Salt Lake Temple, and it pays a fine tribute to them.