[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: DIVERSIONS. | Author: S. B. R]

﻿DIVERSIONS.

	THE best sewing machine attachment—
The engagement of a pretty seamstress.

	HASH is now considered the connecting
line between the animal and vegetable king-
doms.

	LADIES are said to be like bills of ex-
change, because they ought to be settled at
maturity.

	WHICH is the most difficult train to catch?
Answer.—The 12, 50, because it is always
ten to one if you catch it.

	DID the man who plowed the seas, and af-
terward planted his foot upon native soil,
ever harvest his crops?

	ANDREW Jackson was accused of bad
spelling, but John Randolph defended him
by declaring that "a man must be a fool who
could not spell words more ways than one."

	SHODDY invited Ole Bull to dine with
him, and meet a few friends. At the din-
ner, Shoddy hoped Mr. Bull had brought his
violin. Ole quietly replied, "My violin
never dines out."

	"How far is it to Cub Creek?" asked a
traveler of a Dutch woman. "Only shoost
a little vays." "Is it four, six, eight or ten
miles?" impatiently asked the stranger.
"Yas, I dinks it is," serenely replied the un-
moved gatekeeper.

	Two Milesians were standing at the Fair-
mount water-works, watching the big wheels
splashing the water, when one of them re-
marked:—"Mike isn't this a quare country
where they have to grind the water before
they can use it?"

	COCKNEY: I say, Bill, my good fellor, vich
is the way to Epsom?—Countryman: How
did you know that my name was Bill?—
Cockney: Vy, I guessed it.—Countryman:
How did you know that I was a good fellow?
—Cockney: Vy, I guessed it.—Countryman:
Then guess your way to Epsom.

	A LADY returning from an unprofitable
visit to church, declared that "when she saw
the shawls on those Smiths, and then
thought of the things her own poor girls had
to wear, if it wasn't for the consolation of
religion she did not know what she should
do."

	"JOHNNY," said a mother, to her hopeful
son, as she was reading to him of Pocahon-
tas, in the History of Virginia, "do you
know who Pocahontas was?" "Yes mother,"
said the lad, whose thoughts were upon the
mare that lately trotted a half mile in 1:044,
"she was a fast trotter."

	A MAN sought to annoy a boy whom he
found at work by the road-side, and finally
asked him who his father and mother were,
to which the boy replied: "They are the
parents of a son who knows how to practice
the wise precept of King Solomon, by an-
swering a fool according to his folly."

	DR. Willet said that at one time when he
was a connoisseur in bird-stuffing, he used
to criticise other people's bird-stuffing se-
verely. Walking with a gentleman one
day he stopped at a window where a gigan-
tic owl was exhibited. "You see," said the
doctor to his friend, "there is a magnificent
bird utterly ruined by unskillful stuffing.
Notice the mounting! Execrable isn't it?
No living owl ever roosted in that position.
And the eyes are fully a third larger than
any owl ever possessed." At this moment
the stuffed bird raised one foot and solemnly
blinked at his critic, who said but little more
about stuffed birds that afternoon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
We will toil on bravely, through sunshine and shade,
For our Heavenly Father will still lend us aid;
Though lowly our sphere yet our labors of love,
He honored on earth and still favors above.
“I was an hungered, ye fed me,” once kindly he said,
"The poor of my people likewise ye have fed;
As ye gave unto them, unto me ye have given,
Enter into the joy of your Father in heaven.
“The winter winds chilled me, my raiment was old,
Warm clothing ye gave, to protect me from cold;
My blessing was all that to you then was given,
Your treasures were hid in the Kingdom of Heaven.
“I was thirsty, when lo! from the river's pure brink,
Of the crystal fount springing ye brought forth my drink.
“I was sick and in prison, ye came unto me—
"No longer my servants, but friends ye shall be,”
Then why should we linger or cease from our toil?
The Bride is not ready, all lamps have not oil;
And the watchmen in Zion unceasingly cry,
“Prepare ye, make ready, the Bridegroom is nigh.
								S. B. R.
	Logan.


