[Vol33 | September 1946 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Committee]
Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3?Fitting and Adjusting Patterns, and Cutting Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, December 10, 1946
Objective: To decide the proper style of pattern and suitable material for a given individual; to teach how to interpret commercial patterns; to demonstrate the adjusting of a pattern to individual measurements, and the cutting. Reference: Patterns and Measurements SATISFACTORY work is based on accurate measurement. To measure is to verify a given length or space in terms of a_ standard gauge. For all types of dressmaking, a good pattern is indispensable. It is not economy to use makeshift patterns at any time. Widths and lengths of the figure are the basic measurements used in patterns. All patterns should be purchased according to bust measurements, with the exception of skirts, slacks, etc., which are usually purchased by hip or waist measurements. It is better to use a tape measure to compare the size of your pattern with your own measurements, rather than to attempt to pin the thin tissue pieces together and try them on; however, in order to thoroughly understand a given pattern, it may be helpful to pin the various parts together before laying them out. A pattern carefully fitted to your measurements, lines, and proportions, should cut a garment which will need little or no The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 10 and 11. Fitting. 'The home sewer can eliminate fitting problems by carefully following, step by step, the instructions given on each pattern for making the proper adjustments. Patterns are made to standard measurements, yet seldom is the human figure standard in every detail. Laying on the Pattern To ensure the proper fit of a garment, lay the pattern over the material on a table, being sure that the pieces are laid either straight of the goods or bias, as the pattern indicates. Cutting Be sure that the pattern and the material are pinned securely together, and are lying flat on the table before beginning to cut the garment. Also, recheck carefully with a tape measure, the bust, waist, hip, and length measurements before doing your cutting. Assignment for January: Bring your pattern and cut-out material to class. Also, bring pieces of different types of cloth, such as cotton, wool, silk, rayon, chiffon, etc.; also, a needle, thread, and thimble.
