[Vol33 | September 1946 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]

Objective: To show that the pioneers recognized and Practiced the first Principle of revealed religion, namely faith faith in God, faith in their leaders, faith in one another, and faith in a great Cause, Visiting Teachers' Messages—Our Pioneer Heritage
Lesson 3—Faith
President Amy Brown Lyman
For Tuesday, December 3, 1946
Objective: To show that the pioneers recognized and practiced the first principle of revealed religion, namely faith—faith in God, faith in their leaders, faith in one another, and faith in a great cause.
THAT the pioneers had great and abiding faith in their Heavenly Father, in their leaders, in one another, and in the great gospel cause we constantly demonstrated in their daily lives and in their many co-operative undertakings.
One of the severest tests of their faith came in the winter of 1846 when they were forced to choose between relinquishing their religious beliefs or giving up their homes. And they were not only losing their homes, but also their beautiful city, Nauvoo, and their beloved temple which had been built at such great cost in effort and sacrifice.
As dear to their hearts as were their lovely homes, their sacred temple, and their beloved city, dearer still to them was the gospel of the Master. And with the same indomitable faith and courage as that which had been demonstrated by the saints in Missouri, they chose to cling to their religious convictions and meet whatever hazards and sacrifices this action might involve. They realized fully that leaving their homes at this time did not mean merely trying again to locate in another part of the State or in another of the adjoining states, but that it meant a move, a desperate and daring move, into the great, un-
known, western desert, where, far from their enemies, they hoped to establish a home in which they could worship God in perfect freedom and work out in their own way their social and religious problems.
The migration of the Mormon pioneers—their exodus from Nauvoo, their journey across the plains, and their settlement in the desert, is one of the greatest examples of pioneering in human history. The question always arises, how was it ever accomplished? The answer is that it was accomplished through unflinching faith, accompanied by unceasing struggle and matchless hard work.
First, there was implicit faith and trust in the Lord and in his protecting care. Second, there was faith in their leaders and in the inspiration of those leaders. And finally, there was their faith in the great cause to which they were devoted. It was their conviction that theirs was the true gospel of the Master, which had been restored again, and that they had been called to help to prepare the earth for the coming of Christ. Thus it is seen that religion with its dynamic qualities was the most vital thing in the life of these pioneers, sustaining and steadying them in every adjustment they were called to make.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 635 
 ?SEPTEMBER 1946