THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held on April 3 and 4, 1935, in Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Louise Y. Robison presiding. The following sessions were held: An Officers' Meeting for General, Stake and Mission Officers; three Department Meetings—Social Welfare, Work and Business and Choristers' and Organists'; a Reception for Stake and Mission Officers in the Bishop's Building; a Presidents' Breakfast, for Stake and Mission Presidents in the Lion House; two General Sessions in the Tabernacle; an Institute on Handicraft, for Stake Work and Business Leaders. The Conference was attended by enthusiastic workers from all of the Stakes but one; a special delegation of eight members from the Hawaiian Mission, headed by the Mission President; and representatives from nine missions in the United States. It was a record breaking attendance for Relief Society Conference. The attendance at the Officers' Meeting was as follows: Mission Presidents, 10; Branch Presidents, 1; Stake Presidents, 82; Counselors, 115; Secretary-treasurers, 56; Board Members, 331; High Councilmen, 2; making a total attendance of 597. The music was under the direction of the Music Committee of the General Board, and was furnished by the Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the very able leadership of Charlotte O. Sackett, assisted by Frank W. Asper, Alta Cassity and William Hardiman. The three-day institute conducted by Glenn J. Beeley was a practical exhibition of the material which is to be featured in "Handicraft for Every Woman." Each official representative was permitted to make a lamp shade, and there were demonstrations of wood carving, metal and leather tooling, and what can be accomplished with old felt hats. Two hundred rug designs were made and seventy-five chair seats. There was also an example of the new science of home lighting and lamp conversion. In the north window of the Z.C.M.I. A very beautiful exhibition of handicraft was shown during the days of the Conference.
OFFICERS' MEETING Wednesday Morning, April 3, 1935
PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON