WE are happy this morning to greet you dear Relief Society Stake Officers and Board Members and Mission Presidents. We pray that our Heavenly Father will bless us with His Holy Spirit during this Conference, that our meetings will be profitable and enjoyable. As most of you sisters know, our beloved Counselor Julia A. Child passed away on January 23, 1935. It is natural that we are thinking of her this morning for all who were privileged to know Sister Child, and *This book is not yet off the press. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE work with her, loved her dearly. She was a loyal, efficient officer; a loving, courageous friend; and an ideal mother. We shall ever cherish her memory. In order that our work may continue to be carried on successfully the First Presidency has given us another Counselor, and three new Board Members. These sisters' names will not be presented this morning for your sustaining vote, but I believe you will want to know who they are. It gives me great pleasure to present Sister Kate M. Barker, our Second Counselor and Supervisor of Education. The Board Members are Sister Janet M. Thompson, the President of Ensign Stake; Sister Belle Smith Spafford, the First Counselor in Wells Stake, and Sister Donna D. Sorensen, a Stake Board Member of Wells Stake. These sisters are thorough Latter-day Saints, and efficient Relief Society workers. I am confident all branches of our work will go forward and we shall be able to give you greater assistance with your lessons with the help of these sisters. We are most grateful to you splendid officers for the great work you have done in the Magazine drive. There never has been such a successful campaign for . Our subscriptions have increased six thousand. This has taken loyal, enthusiastic, earnest work, and we do thank you. The report from one small branch in the Western States Mission is a sample of those that have come from all over the United States and Hawaii, Canada and Mexico. This branch reports fourteen members with sixteen subscriptions. Many of our sisters have made sacrifice in order to subscribe. I pray that our Father will bless them and compensate them 271 in the information and pleasure they will receive. We regret that the sisters in some of the Wards and Branches have been disappointed because their names and quotas have not been published after they have made excellent records. This has occurred through sending their lists to the Mission or Stake President. The President has probably held these for other reports, and they have not reached the office in time. Stake Presidents and Stake Magazine Agents and Mission Presidents—even if it is only one branch or one ward which has made an excellent record, will you please forward the report at once. The discouragement that comes through disappointment may possibly retard the work another year. Another thing we do hope you will instruct your Magazine Agents to send the names in on our blanks. We have spoken of this so many times, I know you are tired of hearing it, but if you could be in our office and see the manner in which some subscriptions come in—sometimes they are on little pieces of scratch paper, almost unintelligible, and then the names are not interpreted correctly. Will you please take it up in your Union Meetings, and instruct your Ward Presidents and your Ward Magazine Agents to send the orders in on order blanks. They are free, and they make our work so much easier. There is another item for which we would like to thank you, that is your loyalty to the Burial Clothes Department. We are wondering, though, if all of the Stakes and Wards know we offer this service. A Stake Board Member from Idaho was in our office a few days ago, and said she never had an idea we had a Burial Clothes Department.