Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (For First Week in October) LESSON I CHOOSING THE FIRST PRESIDENCY AND THE TWELVE 1. Review of Last Lesson. It is only fitting at the commencement of a new year's work that the closing lesson of last year should be briefly reviewed. The lesson title was "Zion's Camp," and the subject matter was concerned chiefly with a description of the organization and movements of a group of men, under the leadership of Joseph Smith, brought together for the apparent purpose of going to the assistance of their persecuted brethren in Missouri. The journey from Kirtland to western Missouri (only slightly shorter than that made by the Mormon pioneers from Winter Quarters to Salt Lake City) was a long and trying one, full of hardships and temptations. Complaint and dissatisfaction were by no means unknown. Indeed, some of the brethren must have tried the Prophet's patience almost to the breaking point. But like the great leader that he was, he led the Camp steadily forward, and on the 22nd day of July, 1834, six weeks after the march began, he and his party encamped at Fishing River, only a short distance from the journey's end. Three days later, at Rush Creek, the Camp was separated into small groups and disbanded, doubtless much to the disappointment of some of its members. On the third of July, 1834, a discharge was ordered given to every man of the Camp who had proved himself faithful, certifying to this fact and granting him permission to return home. 2. At Fishing River, the Prophet received a revelation in which the Lord declared that even though not all of the members of the Camp had obeyed his commandments, yet "Inasmuch as there are those who have hearkened unto my words, I have prepared a blessing and an endowment for them, if they continue faithful. I have heard their prayers, and will accept their offering; and it is expedient in me that they should be brought thus far for a trial of their faith. (D. And C. 105:18, 19) The manner in which these promises were fulfilled is pointed out in a later section of this lesson. 3. By way of parenthesis, it should also be observed that if the members of Zion's Camp and the Church generally had kept the commandments of God, his people would already have been redeemed, as witness the following: "Were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now. But behold, they have not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands, and are not united according to the union required by the law of the celestial kingdom; and Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom. My people must needs be chastened until they 318 learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer. Therefore it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait for a little season, for the redemption of Zion." (D. And C. 105:2-13) 4. Selection and Ordination of the First Presidency. It will be recalled that as early as April 6, 1830, at the time of the organization of the Church, Joseph Smith was accepted by the unanimous vote of those present as their teacher and leader in the Kingdom of God. At this time he was ordained an elder by Oliver Cowdery, who in turn was similarly ordained by the Prophet.