[Vol7 | November 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Current Topics | Title: On the Watch Tower]
ON  THE  WATCHTOWER  655 
Fast  mail  air  service  between  New  York  and  San  Fran- 
cisco was  inaugurated  by  the  government  on  September  8. 
Prices  of  iron  and  steel  manufactures,  and  of  cotton  and 
woolen  goods,  fell  o&  about  30  per  cent  in  the  United  States 
in   September. 
Alexandre  Alillerand  was  elected  president  of  France  on 
September  23,  succeeding  Paul  Deschanel,  whose  mind  has 
become  impaired. 
A  world  justice  court  is  now  proposed  with  which  to 
settle  international  difficulties,  and  to  eliminate  objections  to 
the  Leaeue  of  Nations. 
Great  Britain  was  threatened  in  September  by  chaos  in 
business.  The  miners'  strike  set  for  September  25  was,  how- 
ever, postponed  until  October. 
An  earthquake  in  northern  Italy  on  September  7  and  9 
resulted  in  over  1,400  deaths,  many  thousands  of  people  home- 
less, and  vast  destruction  of  property. 
Three  Socialists,  because  of  membership  in  the  Socialist 
party,  were  expelled  from  the  New  York  legislature  on 
September  21,  and  two  others  resigned  in  protest. 
Moses  \'.  Reeves,  aged  95  years,  and  Elizabeth  Guest, 
85,  were  married  in  Salt  Lake  City  on  September  7.  They  are 
said  to  be  the  oldest  couple  ever  joined  in  wedlock  in  Utah. 
Ireland's  troubles  with  Great  Britain  were  more  aggra- 
vated than  ever  in  September,  there  being  more  than  100 
killed,  many  hundreds  injured,  and  much  property  destroyed. 
Japan  and  the  United  States  are  negotiating  a  settle- 
ment of  the  question  of  excluding  the  Japanese  from  this 
country.  It  is  not  likely  that  Japan  will  go  to  war  with  the 
United  States. 
Lithuania  and  Poland,  both  members  of  the  League  of 
Nations,  were  at  war  in  September.  They  agreed  to  submit 
their  difficulty  to  the  league  council,  then  immediately  re- 
sumed hostilities,  without  waiting  for  the  council  to  act.