Literature
LESSON III
(Third Week in December)
SARA TEASDALE
Sara Teasdale is one of the best loved of the new poets. She has taken to heart the old dictum that sincerity is of prime importance in all literature. In her own practice she does not vary from this belief. The sincerity may be actual, or it may be imaged, but it must always be real. She has given us a group of love poems that will appeal to persons of sincere emotions. Miss Teasdale was born August 8, 1884, in a city and state that has not produced an unusual number of poets. Her birthplace, close to the broad waters of the Mississippi river, is St. Louis, Missouri. There she obtained her education, which was added to materially, as was Amy Lowell's, through travel in Europe and in the Near East. She was married to Ernest B. Filsinger, in 1914, the year of the outbreak of the World War. Her husband, also a writer, is not of the poetic order; he writes rather serious books on foreign trade. Mr. and Mrs. Filsinger moved to New York City in 1916. Sara Teasdale had written some three or four books when she issued her Love Songs, in 1917. These songs are appreciated by many readers in many lands for she has had many of her poems translated into other languages. Her Night Song at Amalfi is pleasing. One of the famous drives in Italy is what is known as the Amalfi drive. One usually leaves Sorrento, the city where Francis Marion Crawford wrote many of his books, and driving along the line of the Mediterranean Sea, observes a vast country where grape vines and fruit trees grow. It is this stretch of country that makes real something of the largeness attributed to the Roman Empire. Finally after a drive of several hours one finds oneself in the medieval city of Amalfi, with its great church overlooking the fountain of the square. It was while thinking of this place that Sara Teasdale wrote Night Song at Amalfi:
NIGHT SONG AT AMALFI
I asked the heaven of stars What I should give my love? It answered me with silence, Silence above.
I asked the darkened sea, Down where the fishermen go? It answered me with silence, Silence below.
Oh, I could give him weeping, Or I could give him song? But how can I give silence My whole life long?
This little love song, a very sincere tribute to the lover, is unique among American love songs. Spring Night while it comes from her collection of poems entitled Rivers to the Sea is nevertheless a love song. It is a refutation of the idea of substituting one desirable thing for another. Every once-in-a-while some philosopher will suggest that the appreciation of the beautiful may be substituted for the religious emotion or for love. Experience teaches us that such is not the fact, that the appetite of the spirit is in that respect not unlike the physical appetite. If the appetite craves that which is sweet, it is useless to offer bread and meat. The hunger may be satisfied but the longing still remains. If the soul reaches out for spiritual comfort, beauty in nature will not suffice. It is such a philosophy that Sara Teasdale presents in Spring Night.
SPRING NIGHT
The park is filled with night and fog, The veils are drawn about the world, The drowsy lights along the paths Are dim and pearled.
Gold and gleaming the empty streets, Gold and gleaming the misty lake, The mirrored lights like sunken swords, Glimmer and shake.
Oh, is it not enough to be Here with this beauty over me? My throat should ache with praise, and I Should kneel in joy beneath the sky.
O beauty, are you not enough? Why am I crying after love, With youth, a singing voice, and eyes To take earth's wonder with surprise?
Why have I put off my pride, Why am I unsatisfied,? I, for whom the pensive night Binds her cloudy hair with light,?
I, for whom all beauty burns Like incense in a million urns? O beauty, are you not enough? Why am I crying after love?

Before turning to another poem we wish to draw attention to the diction of this poem. Sara Teasdale, like many of her group, has power to select words that make pictures or images that appeal to the senses. Take this first stanza of the Spring Night, line by line: "The park is filled with night and fog." Picture number one. "The veils are drawn about the world, the drowsy lights along the paths are dim and pearled. Gold and gleaming the empty streets, gold and gleaming the misty lake, the mirrored lights like sunken swords, glimmer and shake." See if you can imagine these pictures, selecting the most colorful words in them. The Long Hill records an experience that is certainly familiar to persons who climb hills and roam over mountains.
THE LONG HILL
I must have passed the crest a while ago And now I am going down? Strange to have crossed the crest and not to know, But the brambles were always catching the hem of my gown.
All the morning I thought how proud I should be To stand there straight as a queen, Wrapped in the wind and the sun with the world under me? But the air was dull, there was little I could have seen.
It was nearly level along the beaten track, And the brambles caught in my gown? But it's no use now to think of turning back, The rest of the way will be only going down.
Wisdom is a poem that puts over a bit of real philosophy of life:
WISDOM
It was a night of early spring, The winter-sleep was scarcely broken; Around us shadows and the wind Listened for what was never spoken.
Though half a score of years are gone, Spring comes as sharply now as then? But, if we had it all to do It would be done the same again.
It was a spring that never came; But we have lived enough to know That what we never have, remains; It is the things we have that go.
In the last stanza we are told, "It was a spring that never came; but we have lived enough to know that what we never have, remains; it is the things we have that go." Just so long
as we image a thing and live it in the imagination we have it. Sometimes when the actual experience is ours, we are disillusioned and we lose it. We have a little picture of the quiet English landscape such as one sees in Sussex, England, in Miss Teasdale's poem entitled On the South Downs. The English skylark proves irresistible to Sara Teasdale, the American poet, as it has proved irresistible to English poets from Chaucer to Harold Begbie:
ON THE SOUTH DOWNS Over the downs there were birds flying, Far off glittered the sea, And toward the north the weald of Sussex Lay like a kingdom under me. I was happier than the larks That nest on the downs and sing to the sky? Over the downs the birds flying Were not so happy as I. It was not you, though you were near, Though you were good to hear and see; It was not earth, it was not heaven, It was myself that sang in me. She tells us that she was happier than the larks "that nest on the downs and sing to the sky." Yet the poet tells us it was not heaven, "it was myself that sang to me." ?This is Sara Teasdale's way of telling us that the power to appreciate the beautiful is within; expressed by another in this manner, "Any sincere appreciation of beauty is proof of beauty in one's self." THE ANSWER When I go back to earth And all my joyous body Puts off the red and white That once had been so proud, If men should pass above With false and feeble pity, My dust will find a voice To answer them aloud: "Be still, I am content, Take back your poor compassion!? Joy was a flame in me Too steady to destroy. Lithe as a bending reed Loving the storm that sways her? I found more joy in sorrow Than you could find in joy." 
 Questions and Problems 1. Stress some lines of Sara Teasdale's poetry that are indicative of her sincerity. 2. What prose writer included in the lessons of this year knew the State of Missouri and wrote a book about its famous river? 3. Select a group of words from the poems of Sara Teasdale that you would call "colorful." 4, What is the poet thinking of when she speaks of putting "off the red and white." Do you think the expression apt? 5. What new ideas have been stimulated through reading Sara Teasdale?