[Vol2 | June 1915 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial The Battle of Wills]

EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. JUNE, 1915. No. 6. THE BATTLE OF WILLS. The awful and destructive war now waging in Europe does not lessen with the passing of time. How inscrutable are the problems which politics, religion and the love of conquest, force upon the human mind! How bitter are the contests which arise over these vital forces in the universe about us! Men are tossed upon a raging sea of controversy, their minds having been anchored to some personal or interested rock of division, and woe to all who venture near the perilous storm center. War's Preliminaries. Battles can and do rage as the result of such contentions, the ties of friendship are broken, confidence is shattered, homes are destroyed, and the ravages of war and pestilence sweep over the contesting nations. War ? with ancient or modern implements? death, bleeding wounds, the scream of pain and the howl of revenge ? all these are awful to contemplate and still more terrible to endure. Actual War. Yet actual war is not so agonizing to bear, so cruel to contemplate, nor so destructive to all organized life, as is the battle of wills which precede sanguinary conflicts, and which often take the place of more brutal engagements. Conflict of Wills. It is the conflict of opposing wills which sometimes exhausts mothers ? especially when the child is a strong male spirit ? and which renders some homes scenes of constant confusion and contention. The determination to prevail, at any cost, is both the strength and the weakness, the possible salvation, or the possible damnation of each human soul. The War in Heaven. There can be little doubt that the titanic conflict in heaven in which Lucifer led the warring third of heaven's sons, was fought, not with sticks and staves, nor with swords or guns, but with the superhuman will marshaled against divine will. Every trick and artifice, every subtle advantage or subtle device was used by the rebellious general who led the third part of heaven's hosts. And what was arrayed against this mighty army? Truth, calm, vigorous truth; reason and pure independence, which lost none of its virility because it was willingly obedient to God's will and plan. Rule or ruin, was the watchword of Lucifer ? these opposed sides strove, suffered, and the final triumph of justice and right was the bulwark of the divine soldiers and followers of Christ. How Long, O Lord, How Long? We who watch this European warfare, wonder how long it will wage, and just how it will terminate. If the issue be continued, the settlement deferred, those who love truth, order and justice, can well afford to wait till the right shall prevail. The spirit of war is surely poured out upon all nations ? our own country has partaken of the spirit of war and the battle of wills has been waging in national politics ? but who can foresee the outcome, nationally, and internationally? Only He who presides over the destinies of nations, and whose hosts are armed with justice and the preparation for peace. HISTORY NOTE. The stakes are to prepare a Stake History, which is, naturally, to be made up of ward histories ? the activities of each particular stake and the wards within that stake. The points noted in the circular letter sent out by the General Historian was only suggestive to stakes regarding points to be noted in their own work. Ward histories should be sent to stake historians; and a good ? not too lengthy ? resume of the stake history should be forwarded to the General Historian. Do not crowd this matter too much, friends and sisters, but be prompt about getting to work. 
 NEW BOOKS. Few men have done a greater service to this Church, than has the Church Assistant Historian, Andrew Jenson. Golden facts, silver threads of incidents, pearls of testimony and truth have been gathered from the dusty corners of forgotten things, and have been engraven on the tablets of imperishable history by this indefatigable worker. Two books have lately reached this office by this author; the new edition of the Church Chronology, and the second volume of Latter-day Saints Biographical Encyclopedia. The latter books contain the portraits and sketches of President Emmeline B. Wells, and most of the members of the General Board, together with hundreds of other sketches and pictures of good, faithful men and women, heroes and heroines of this Church. These books should be purchased by all Ward Relief Societies as a necessary part of their ward libraries. There seems to be some misapprehension in regard to the editorial in the May Magazine. It is not the purpose of the General Board to interfere in any way with the observance of Mother's Day. ALABASTER BOXES OF HUMAN SYMPATHY. Do not keep the alabaster boxes of your love and tenderness sealed up until your friends are dead. Fill their lives with sweetness. Speak approving, cheering words, while their ears can hear them, and while their hearts can be thrilled and made happier by them; the kind things you mean to say when they are gone, say before they go. The flowers you mean to send for their coffins, send to brighten and sweeten their homes before they leave them. If my friends have alabaster boxes laid away, full of fragrant perfumes of sympathy and affection, which they intend to break over my dead body, I would rather they would bring them out in my weary and troubled hours, and open them, that I may be refreshed and cheered by them while I need them. I would rather have a plain coffin without a flower, a funeral without a eulogy, than a life without the sweetness of love and sympathy. Let us learn to anoint our friends beforehand for their burial. Post-mortem kindness does not cheer the burdened spirit. Flowers on the coffin cast no fragrance backward over the weary way. ? Published in London by Partridge & Co.