EVANESCENT.

Slowly she came and her eyes so brown
	Were shadowed with thought, not of joy, or play;
And, musing, she said as she met my look—
	" 'Twas a butterfly, and it flied away."

Yes, over the bowers the rover went
	Heedless of all her winsome grace,
Had drank of the flowers she loved so well,
	And all less fair, than her own sweet face.

Farther he wandered where climbing high
	Gaudier flowers glared and shone
And my little one pondering 'o'er his flight,
	Among the flower beds strayed alone.

Blossoms with odors rank and strong
	Flattered his senses just as well,
As breath of roses and violets
	Or dew in the woodbine’s coral bell.

He drank where grew a poisonous draught
	And giddier whirled his joyous flight,
'Till he caught amid a silvery mesh
	Spread like a mirror to catch the light.

Drowsily resting he fell adream,
	Deeper and deeper he went alone
Adown the riotous steeps of thought
	With deadly berries and thorns o’er grown.

Well! that my little one never knew
	The fate of the rover that flew away;
Why should a regret o'er cloud her face
	That had right to sunshine 'round its way?

And then, the while that she gently mused,
	A little bird came near us and sang,
We thrilled with joy, for its voice so clear
	Around and all over above us rang.

A stranger-bird from a far-off coast,
	I knew from whither his flight had strayed;
And stories of his bright tropic home
	I told my wondering little maid.

He built his nest where we all might see
	His brilliant colors and hear his voice,
Bright Oriole ! how thy coming effaced
	Her loss and made her heart rejoice.

Oh, griefs, though ye may be great or small,
	Whether fruit of thoughtlessness or of wrong;
The heart that lists to the "still small voice"
	Shall hear and smile to the sky born song.

Oh, blessed life ! that of sin and ill
	Hath known so little that it may say—
(Scarred not, wondering, passing on)
	"False and fair, thou hast gone thy way."

Though thy baby lips the verdict framed,
	Remember it even by night and day, 
Say of all things that unworthy prove—
	“ 'Twas a butterfly,	and it flied away."


Then shall a voice by the Father sent
	Reach through the cloud with a steadfast ray,
Chiming in harmony with thy heart
	To dwell therein forever and aye !
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 29, 1890.


