ELIZABETH BROTHERTON PRATT.

	I worked all summer on the farm planted,
hoed and weeded, although I did not know
a weed from a plant until Mr. Pratt showed
me the difference. We were much in want of
some articles of clothing. I had no shoes to
wear, and I took some old cloth and made me
a pair and put rawhide on them for soles.
But we did not long want, as Bro- Kimball
had prophesied that there should be a plenty
although there was no prospect at the time,
and he said afterward that he could see no
way that it would come true, but his words
were literally fulfilled.
	One of the Mormon Battalion boys dis-
covered gold while in California in the year
1848 and on their return to the City the news
soon reached the States, and gold seekers
made ready their teams, chattels and goods,
not having knowledge and wisdom they loaded
too heavily and had to throw out part of
their burdens by the way. When the emi-
grants reached here they traded with the
people for things they needed and supplied
our wants with groceries, bacon and clothing.
Some of them staid with us through the
winter. In this, we could see the hand of the
Lord.
	March 19th 1851 Mr. Pratt was appointed
on a mission to the Pacific Coast to organize
and set in order the Saints that had gone
there not knowing where the church would
locate, They went in the ship Brooklyn, I
went with him to San Francisco, we traveled
in company with A. Lyman, and C. C. Rich
when they were going to St. Bernerdino with
a company of Saints. After a tiresome
journey we arrived in San Francisco. Mr.
Pratt remained there and rebaptized quite a
number in about two months time. He then
appointed an Elder to preside and sailed to
Chili Sept. 5th 1851 on another mission. I
remained in California with the saints, they
employed me to do their family sewing which
was quite a help to the family living at Salt
Lake in Mr. Pratt's absence. He returned in
May 1852, we left San Francisco and visited
San Bernerdino and arrived at home Oct.
1852.
	April 9th 1853 at the Conference the
corner stone of the Temple at Salt Lake was
laid, it was a solemn and glorious time long to
be remembered. On the 6th of April 1854
Mr. Pratt was appointed on a second mission
to California. On the 5th of May we bade
farewell to home and friends and arrived in


[Column 1]

San Francisco on the 2nd of July. My health
was very poor; on this mission we hired a house
large enough to accomodate the Elders going
and returning from their missions. Mr. Pratt
traveled about and organized branches at
San Jose, Santa Clara and St. John's preached
the Gospel and held discussions.
	In March 1855 Mr. Pratt received a number
of books, Church works, from England and
we opened a store in San Francisco; this we
kept but a short time as we soon left for our
Valley home. I became acquainted with
some sisters in whose society I spent many
happy days and as they had not the privilege
to come here, and have passed into eternity, I
have done a work for them in the Logan
Temple. I knew this was their wish, I have
also officiated there for my own relatives.
	June 20, we bade farewell to our dear friends
in San Francisco. On the 18th of August
we arrived at home and found the family all
well. The crickets had been very troublesome
that season which made grain scarce and flour
very dear.
	Sept 11th 1856 Mr. Pratt bade adieu to his
home to go on the last mission he ever took in
this present life. He received great blessings
from Pres. Young and Pres. Kimball, but
still he appeared to doubt his safe return.
While on this mission he wrote his poem; my
fiftieth year. He had only been gone from
home seven months when his life was taken in
Van Buren, Arkansas May 13th, 1857. He
left nine widows and thirty children, fifteen
boys and fifteen girls. The most of those
children were very young and born within ten
years time after we came to Salt Lake.
	When I look back to those days, I wonder
how we got along as well as we did under
such trying circumstances, as we had nothing
to depend on but our labor. The next winter
Johnson's army came on and our boys were
out in Echo Cañon the most of the time. In
the spring we left our homes not knowing
that we should ever return to them again.
Our family and a number  of others spent
the summer in Provo. In the fall the word
came, "To your tents O Israel"! Then we
returned and were rejoiced to find things as
we had left them. Through the many lies
and exaggerated reports about the Saints that
had been driven to this wild region of the
mountains, through religious persecution and
mob violence the U. S. troops came here.
	This army was sent from the government to
wipe us all out of existence. To save tronble
and bloodshed, Brigham Young counseled all
the people to leave the city. They made the
sacrifice and all ended in peace. We have
been driven from onr homes, bereft of our
dear ones, suffered sickness, poverty and
hunger, we have been annoyed with insects,
the crickets, grasshoppers and worms,and with
all this, we have been sustained and greatly
blessed of the Lord.
	In 1857 we sold our old homestead and
divided the means and there was enough for
each one to get a home of her own. Since
then four of Mr. Pratt's wives have died, there
are five yet living, there are twenty-four
children; six having died, one hundred and
twenty-four grand children,and a great number 
of great grand children. I can testify Pres.
Kimball's words have come true in regard to
my being blessed with dreams, from that time
I have been comforted in my night visions.
After Mr. Pratt's death we had to struggle
along the best way we could, sometimes I
would feel almost discouraged, at such times
I would dream of Mr. Pratt and would think
that he was just returning from a mission, and
it would appear to me that he was not dead.
	My dead relatives often visited me in my
sleep, always reminding me to do a work for
them, they gave me no rest until I did.
	I was not much inclined to look at the

[Column 2]

dark side of a picture, although I had to pass
through many trying scenes.
	I married into polygamy and believed it to
be a divine principle, and those who enter into
it with this knowlddge and are faithful to its
requirements will inherit the same kingdom
and glory that Abraham does, the friend of
God and father of the faithful. I have tried
to keep pace with Church organizations, and
be faithful to its duties as required by its
members. I was a member of the first Relief
Society which was organized in the fourteenth
ward of this City. Sister Phebe W. Woodruff
was its president; we had good meetings and
we did considerable straw work, we made a
great many hats for both men and women,
many nice quilts and useful articles for the poor.
This socieiy was started before the Church
moved away from the city.
	I now testify that I know Joseph Smith was
a true prophet and this is the true Church of
Jesus Christ that should be set up in the last
days, spoken of by Daniel through the gift of
prophecy. Those who have held the presi-
dency have walked in the footsteps of their
file leaders and carried out the mind and will
of God in every respect, I will make mention
of the noble servants of their heavenly Father
Pres. Brigham Young who succeeded the
Prophet Joseph Smtih, he was the great
pioneer to the people's home in the west, he
gave counsel and assisted to build up and
improve the waste places, he did this by untir-
ing travel from place to place, encouraging the
people to make better their condition in life.
Pres. John Taylor gave himself as a sacrifice
for those principles that will never tarnish, nor
die, and his integrity will stand as a monument
to his name forever. Pres. Wilford Woodruff
is left to guide the Church and like the star of
Bethlehem' which if its members follow will
guide them to Jesus the great Redeemer,
"Peace on earth good will to mankind," and
while his life is preserved he will give us the
word of the Lord. When we read of the
ancient Saints going astray we are led to
marvel that they were so often tempted to stray
from the path of righteousness; or that the child-
ren of Israel should make a golden calf. But
when we examine ourselves in our day we are
too weak, like them we have too many idols
and so many weak points to overcome, it keeps
us busy watching ourselves. Yes and as we
often sing:

	"When through firery trials thy pathway shall lie
	My grace, all sufficient shall by thy supply,
	The flame shall not hurt thee I only design
	Thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine.

Salt Lake City Dec. 9th 1890.


