MOTHER AND SON.

	Now the season advances, the season of the
year! the season of bright smiles of mysterious
parcels; the season which brings the happiness to
the children’s hearts, that no other time can bring.
The season that fills more hearts with love, and
prompts more to generous deeds than all of the
other seasons combined. The time when the
father lays aside his cares and rejoices with his
little ones. The time when the mother’s fond
heart is overflowing with love for all the world.
For she with her motherly feeling recalls every

[Column 2]
throb of pleasure which animated the heart of her
who was an instrument in bringing iuto the world
the Savior of mankind.
	There is none who can more deeply sympathize
with that mother’s broken heart who was borne
away fainting from the cross where hung her
darling son; than mothers themselves.
	We are all moved by the pathetic story of our
Savior’s death. His was a blameless life sacri-
ficed on the altar of love, but to that broken-
hearted mother he was not the. Savior of the
world, he was the loving dutiful son, who in in-
fancy slumbered on her breast. Those little feet
she guided in their tottering steps. It was his
voice whose accents caused her heart to throb,
when he first pronounced the magic word
“mother.” And when she saw him grow strong
in the grace of His Father who sent him, and
when she heard the voice from heaven proclaim,
“This is my beloved son in whom I am- well
pleased,” how that mother’s heart  swelled with
pride, and when by the power of that spirit the
multitude followed Him, He teaching them his
Father’s will, healing their sick, raising the dead,
causing the lame to walk, the blind to see, how
fervently she must have thanked her Father for
such a son.
	The scene changed, as the poet said, “As all
things human change,” her joy was turned to fear
for rumors reached her that cruel men were
jealous of her son. She knew what that meant
she trembled for his safety, she prayed for his
protection but, alas, it could not be, he had come
on wings of love and was willing to make the
greatest sacrifice the world has ever known to
save unborn millions. But was her grief less
mortal ?
	Since the star that guided the humble rejoicing
shepherd lads to see the Holy mother and son in
that rude cnamber in Bethlehem nearly 19 hund-
red years have passed, and millions have died
with the-sacred word Jesus on their lips. Count-
less little children have murmured their morning
and evening prayer in His name. His merciful
words “Go sin no more” have been the means of
turning back to the path of virtue thousands'that
would have been entirely lost.
	How did mother’s live before he came! Bend-
ingover the dying forms of their little ones, whose"'
tiny feet had never gone beyond the gates of
home. How hard to watch the spark of life ex-
pire and know those little lives they had guided
with such tender care would enter the great un-
known alone? Ah! none but those who have
passed through such scenes, fully appreciate the
loving words of our Savior “Suffer little child-
ren to come unto me and forbid them not for of
such is the Kingdom of Heaven.” When we re-
flect, what would we do without His teachings?
What would the poor do without His promises?
It is not strange that the name Jesus as it falls
on our ear has a softening influence on the soul.
It touches a cord in the human heart causing the
love to bubble up and overflow, to gladden the
lives of those around. The name Jesus teaches
us love, patience, endurance and good will to
men.
	VINA.


