SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.

[Concluded.]
something stronger to lean upon than these
fragmentary discourses that have no soul in
them, there is nothing Christ-like about them,"
replied his sister.
	How many in this country and across the
sea in other lands were influenced about that
period and since, by the spirit of the times; a
forerunner of what was about to transpire.
	That very evening after the conversation
here related and other remarks upon the same
subject, the great old-fashioned knocker on
the front door made a clanging sound echoing
through the house, and when the door was
opened two strangers in heavy overcoats and
frosty beards announcing themselves as
missionaries asked for a night's lodging.
	They were not kept out in the cold air many
seconds for this was a hospitable house and
being a little distance from the town travelers
often stopped for dinner or over night. When
the gentlemen were ushered into the warm
sittingroom, they were kindly greeted by the
master and mistress as well as the younger
members of the household and Mr. Vose in-
quired if they had taken supper. Something
in the voice of the elder man sounded familiar
to the host, and he said "Are you from a
distance? you seem like a Western man, but,
and he directed his glance to the first speaker
your accent is decidedly Eastern. Laselle
for it was he could no longer conceal his
identity, no matter what sort of reception he
might receive; he had come purposely, though
thinking after so many years, he might not be
recognized. He replied to Mr. Vose, that he
was from the West, but formerly resided in
Boston; that in days gone by he had been
"quite a regular visitor in this very house."
	"And you come here now for shelter and as
a missionary preaching the word of the Lord,
after the deception you practiced, betraying
the confidence of my sister," before he could
finish the sentence Dorothy Vose had risen to
her feet and with the same complacent
dignity that had characterised her throughout
her whole life, she interposed, "My dear
brother these men are our guests for to night,
do not expose our family affairs to them, nor

[Column 2]

here before these young people. Let us speak
soberly together and apart if needs be."
Edward Laselle looked like one amazed, he
had also risen to his feet when Mr. Vose
accosted him in that recriminating tone, in fact
he had expected a scene of some sort, though
until he entered the house that evening he
knew not if Dorothy was living or dead, nor
whether the place was in possession of any he
had formerly been acquainted with; but he
had been sent out into the New England
States to preach the Gospel and his footsteps
had led him there.
	The explanations that followed that night
were satisfactory as far as was now possible.
Alone in the old familiar parlor where they
had sat many an evening in "the long ago,"
though somewhat modernized now, Edward
Laselle and Dorothy Vose with her brother
talked over the events of the past so closely
interwoven with their lives. She explained to
him how only a few days before she had found
the lost ring, then the unopened letter, though
she did not mention the auburn curl; Edward
betrayed much more emotion than she did, and
Mr. Vose was perhaps quite as much astonished
as either. Mr. Laselle did not offer any
solution of the unexplained mystery, nor did
he ask if Miss Vose was still single, he seemed
fearful of venturing upon untried ground; but
Dorothy who had seen him in a dream inquired
what his mission was, and what book he had
under his arm when he came into the room.
Thus a conversation began that lasted for
hours and was renewed again in the early
morning.
	When Aunt Dorothy retired for the night
she had much to reflect upon that was new to
her. It was the beginning of the fulfillment of
her dream; she was impressed with the testi-
mony borne to her by the Mormon Elder and
so was her brother; they believed the truth
as soon as it was made known to them. How
wonderful it all seemed! Had Mr. Laselle
arrived at the house previous to the discovery
of the letter he would have been turned away
without a hearing, but the finding of the ring
and the letter had so softened the heart of
Miss Dorothy, that she was willing to bury
all old grievances and make him welcome. It
was not long before all the household were
ready for baptism and as Aunt Dorothy
dreamed so it came to pass that the ice was
cut up in the woods between the big rocks and
there on a peaceful Sabbath morning one week
from the date of their arrival the whole Vose
family were baptized by Edward Laselle the
"Mormon" Elder. The Elders had remained
in that vicinity during the week preaching
every evening and expounding the doctrines
of the Church as opportunities offered. There
were several others besides the Vose family
that received baptism, and ere long a branch
of the Church was organized.
	Before Edward Laselle left the neighbor-
hood he sought an interview with Miss
Dorothy Vose which she granted him, he
learned when she was baptized that she was
still only plain Miss Dorothy Vose, and he
was desirous naturally of learning more, and
yet he felt he had no claim upon her con-
fidence. The interview he sought was cheer-
fully granted him in the old parlor, and there
he told the story of his life.
	Not obtaining any reply to his letter and
confidently believing her to be too proud to
relent,or perchance in love with another, he
had asked Mary Stacy to be his wife and she
had consented without hesitation or reserve.
Almost immediately after their marriage they
had taken "the Western fever" and had gone
out to Ohio.
	There at an early period after the Church
was established in Kirtland he had heard the
Gospel and embraced it and ever since that
time he had been a firm believer and advocate

[Column 3]

of its principles. When he was called to go
out as a missionary his appointment was to
the New England States, and his inclination
had led him to visit the scenes of his youth.
	Mary his wife had been dead a number of
years, his daughters had kept house for him,
but they were all married now and he was
quite alone.
	And so in the same old parlor Edward and
Dorothy forgave each other "kissed and made
up;" we will leave the rest to the reader's
imagination and only tell them that this time
they married, and Dorothy consoled herself
with the thought that had it not been for the
misunderstanding between them,Edward would
probably not have been a "Mormon," nor would
she have had the privilege of hearing the glad
tidings. And if she had not found the old
love letters, she would have allowed her brother
to send him away that Sabbath evening as he
fully intended to do. There might be another
story written on their married life and what
happened but we only add,  that the Vose
family gathered with the Saints along with
many others from that vicinity.


