RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to Jeanie Mc'Lean who
departed this life November 25th 1890, aged 73.
Deceased was a native of Johnson near Glasgow,
Scotland.
	Sister McLean was set apart by Bishop A.
Speirs July the 15th 1880 as President of the Pri-
mary Association of the 10th Ward of this City,
and about the same time was appointed Treasurer
of the Relief Society of the ward, and
	Whereas she for many years past has been with
Sister Elizabeth H. Paul administering and com-
forting the sick—and
	Whereas she held these offices up to the time
of her death—we truly feel that we have lost a
faithful worker in the Society—Therefore be it
	Resolved, that we esteem and appreciate her
past faithful labors, and devotion to duty, for
which she has the worthy respect of us all; and
desire to follow her noble example.
	Resolved that we present a copy a copy of these
Resolutions to her son, and publish the same in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on
our Record in the Relief Society and also in the
Primary Association.
		IDA SPEIRS,
		R. T. NESS,
			Committee.

	In is only a just tribute to the memory of a most
excellent woman and member of this Church, for
the writer, who knew her well to place on record
a few items as a testimonial of her faithfulness and
integrity. Sister Mc'Lean was a spiritual-minded
woman and wherever she went in the society of
the Saints she carried a comforting influence;
she was well versed in the Bible, and was able
to speak understandingly on all the principles of
the Gospel citing Scripture proofs in support
thereof. Sister Mc'Lean had quite a remarkable
presence, large and what might really be termed
a magnificent figure. She was specially gifted in
prayer and in public speaking though very modest
in manner on all occasions when called before the
public. She had that genuine sympathy for the
poor, the unfortunate, and afflicted that always
blesses while it administers physical or temporal
relief.
	The children of the Primary Association in the
tenth Ward will have reason to remember their
President,who labored so faithfully and effectively
in the interest of that organization for more than
ten years; always at her post, with a smile on her
face and a benediction on her lips. A true wo-
man in those graces that best adorn womanhood,
a mother in Israel and a Latter-day Saint in word
and in deed.


[Column 1]

