THE YEAR OF GRACE 1891.

	The world has entered upon a year much talked
of by men and women whose researches have
brought them in contact with important facts in
the history of the globe, both scientists and prog-
nosticators, as well as those who profess much
irregular knowledge of the planetary system.
"Old women's sayings" are not all that are brought
forward in proof of great events that are to take
place during the present year now just upon us.
Most of us have heard of Mother Shipton's
prophecy and of old Mrs. Van Hoesen; and those
who are living in these peculiar days fraught with
the wonderful inventions and surprises that are
continually bursting upon and electrifying our
sober senses, are aware that extraordinary oc-
currences are actually taking place and that ac-
cording to the Scriptures "knowledge is increas-
ing and the people are running to and fro in the
midst of the earth," as foretold by the ancient
prophets.
	Dissatisfaction among the working classes with
monopolies is one of the disturbing elements of
the present time, and notwithstanding all the ele-
vating influences and tendencies that are abroad
in the world the opposite power reigns and pre-
dominates to an alarming extent, enlightenment
is spreading and so are the engines of destruc-
tion, a greater work is being done in Temperence
reforms and every day the need of it increases.
	But there are many "signs of the times" indica-
tive of some great change that is surely pending.
The Stoic and philosopher may reason differently
and work out everything by an evolutionary pro-
cess. but the Lord's ways are not as man's ways
and they are past finding out and are only re-
vealed as He sees fit to his servants the prophets
when it seemeth Him good that his people may
be prepared.
	The Latter-day Saints have been commanded
in these last days to do a certain work, to gather
to Zion, to build Temples, and perform therein
ordinances for the living and for the dead; this
work has been commenced and the powers of
darkness have sought to hinder it; they have
caused unjust and prohibitory laws to be made to
hinder the full exercise of religious freedom for
which our forefathers fought and bled and suffered
untold privations. But the powers of dark-
ness cannot over-rule the purposes of the Al-
mighty, the little stone that Daniel saw is rolling
forth and will accomplish its purpose and the
vision of Daniel will be fulfilled, and the
prophecies of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young
and Heber C. Kimball will as surely come to
pass, and some of them are being fulfilled before
our very eyes from day to day as hundreds of
this people can testify. In the meantime it be-
hooves those who are engaged in this great Lat-
ter-day work to be up and doing; faithful to every
duty and watchful of themselves.

[Column 2]

	The beginning of a new year is generally a
time for new resolves and greater efforts for self-
cultivation and self-improvement. The tendency
of the mind at such times is towards a higher de-
velopment of the better qualities of the head and
heart, and consequently love and charity for
others whose conditions may not be as favorable;
and what a pity it is that these holiday feelings
and thoughts, these better impulses do not prompt
one all the year to its very close, that one need
not put them on and off as they do a garment, but
keep continually that kindly spirit, how the world
would be benefitted thereby. At any rate those
who profess to be Saints should make some per-
ceptible improvement as the years roll round. If
there are more temptations than there were once
"in our happy valley," then the strength to resist
these evil influences should be doubled with the
grace and integrity obtained by the supreme
heights attained.
	The circumstances in which this people are
placed at the beginning of this year are calculated,
one would think, to make them sober-minded and
thoughtful, and yet many are giving themselves up
to gaiety and lives of pleasure? And not only
the young, but many who have had experience
are carried on by the tide-wave of pleasure that
seems to have set in upon society and has
reached "our mountain home" with its fascinat-
ing attractions; that some bright and warning
lights should be set along the shore, to ward off
danger of wrecks would seem to be a positive
necessity. Those who have the power and the for-
titude to warn the unwary and over confident ones
that there is danger lurking near them, should
"sound the alarm," and indeed is it not the im-
perative duty of teachers and Elders and fathers
and mothers to check in some degree the apparent
inclination to frivolity and excess of pleasure.
Rational enjoyment and recreation is proper for
all, and one is likely to do better work if suitable
amusements are mingled with it in moderation;
social life should have some claims and holiday
time is a blessing on that account if extremes are
not indulged in, but the spirit of the age is "fast"
and unless the saints take every precaution, many
of them are likely to be plunged into the whirl-
pool of fashionable excitement and forget their
allegiance to God and His laws and command-
ments. The women of Zion should be wide-
awake to the dangers that are lurking beneath
the seemingly harmless current with which some
of the sons and daughters of the Saints are drift-
ing away from the shores of safety, and far away
from the valley of humility out into the mid-ocean
of extravagance with its tempting allurements,
but where they can only see fair sailing. Burns
says:

	"Pleasures are like poppies spread,
	You seize the flower, its bloom is shed,
	Or like the snow-fall in the river,—
	A moment white, then melts forever."

	And the poet Young writing of pleasure has 
this to say,

	"Pleasures are few, and fewer we enjoy,
	Pleasure, like quicksilver, is bright and coy;
	We strive to grasp it with our utmost skill
	Still it eludes us, and it glitters still;
	If seized at last compute your mighty gains;
	What is it but rank poison in your veins?"


