	﻿	SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.

	THE romance of life helps one to bear its
burdens; matter of fact people to the contrary,
notwithstanding. And perhaps  one of the
most interesting things that invariably lends
charm to real life is a love letter, whether it is
a few words ungrammatically written, or an
epistle filled with the choicest language; it
matters not if the person by whom the words
were penned is capable of pouring into the
composition the true eloquence of the soul, it
finds its counterpart in the heart of the receiver,
and is forever cherished among the most valu-
able treasures.  I am aware of the old saying,
it is easy to put things on paper, but it is also
tolerably easy to discern whether the heart is
in it or not. There may be exceptions to this
rule as there are to all others, but many a
happy union has been consummated because of
some outpouring of the human heart on paper;
and many a reconciliation has been effected
through a love letter where a misunderstanding
or a lover’s quarrel had existed.  Some strange
things have happened too, worth relating for 
the amusement of a winter evening, for though 
we speak of Spring as the lover’s season, and
there is not a month in all the year more
appropriate for weddings or when more unions
are consummated than “June the month of 
roses and of love,” but the courting has been
done beforehand in the long winter evenings
and finished off possibly in the lovely Spring 
time, with the perfume of violets in the air
and the sweet songs of the wild birds in their
ecstacy, nest building; by the brink of some
mossy brook or flowing fountain, or under the
apple boughs when the pink and white blossoms
were fluttering to the ground.  But apropos
of old love letters we have a most enchanting
tale to tell. In the old-fashioned houses of the
last century there was generally a garret and
these places were the repository of everything
that the family wanted to put out of sight, and
occasionally some treasure would be lost among  
the heaps of rubbish carried up there, when
the clearing up, or house cleanings were in 
progress.
	This story is a very old one, and has not
been put in a book or published to the world
before, so that although it is old it will never-
theless be as good as new, for it has been well-
kept.  The principal actors in the pretty
drama are dead long ago, but we do not even
at this late date feel justified in giving their
real names.
	A little girl prying about among the old
lumber in the garret at her grandmother’s one
day, hunting doll rags, found a bundle of
old letters tied  with a very faded and soiled
yellow lute-string ribbon would make
a sash for her dolly and proceeded forthwith
to untie the knots, and scatter the letters
among the rubbish, never dreaming that in so
doing, she was divulging a secret or disclosing
a treachery.  But so it proved.
	“Where in the world did you get that ribbon
?” said Aunt Dorothy one day to her little
grand niece who was playing with her dolly in
the drawing-room, and then such a crowd of

[Column 2]
memories came rushing back as she took the
once pretty ribbon in her fingers, fondling it
that little Helen suspected she had done some-
thing naughty, but the child was on the best of
terms with Aunt Dorothy, and as if to make
reparation said, ‘I found it in the garret and
washed it for my new doll, it was tied in such
hard knots around a bundle of old papers
with ink so faded no one could ever read
them. “What did you do with them child?”
said Aunt Dorothy, excitedly, “I threw them
down again in the corner with a whole lot of
other things, “You didn’t tear them then nor
burn them up?” “O, no, why I thought grand-
ma wouldn’t like that, I only wanted the
pretty ribbon; such a nice pattern.” “Very
odd,” replied Aunt Dorothy in an absent way,
and was soon slowly and thoughtfully wending 
her way up the staircase, and then on again to
the garret, talking to herself as she went, ‘I
wonder what letters could have been hid away
up there for all these years. Its forty years or
more since I wore that ribbon, how happy I 
was then and what a bright future I antici-
pated, and then came those evil days, when a
dark shadow lurked in the horizon which sur-
rounded me.  O, why have these remembrances
come back, just at the sight of a faded rib-
bon?” Sure enough, why do those tender days
that are gone come back and haunt us, when
we have groped blindly through the darkness
and sorrow and find ourselves calmed by the
distance that divides us from the dismal past.
Thus musing, Miss Dorothy Vose mounted the
last step and surveyed the garret searchingly;
she went through pile after pile of cast off
clothing, etc., and just as the last rays of the
setting sun shed their pale yellow light in
through the open window, she discovered some
papers peeping from out a corner and trem-
blingly reached out to take the shattered work-
box containing them, for such it proved to be
in her hands.  She shook like an aspen tree as
she lifted it, and it fell in fragments at her
feet, and out from the papers rolled down
among the rubbish on the floor,a ring with an
glowing setting.  For a moment she seemed
stunned, a great sob came swelling up in her
throat, and her mouth was dry and parched,
and she sank down upon the floor as pathetic-
ally as if she had been a beautiful young girl
still in her teens, instead of an old maid of
half a century.
	But no one would have guessed her age for
she was still strikingly handsome and exquis-
itely neat in her dress, and had that sort of
delicate way of adjusting everything that we
call stylish, the draping of her brown silk dress
lay about her soft folds and with her eyes
suffused with tears, she gazed wonderingly
upon the lost ring she had found after all these
long years.  So many times she had ransacked
boxes, drawers and closets, in possible and
impossible places, and now it had come to light 
too late, when her hair was silvered o’er and
her eyes faded with weeping.  An emerald
ring, engraved D. V. from E. L., such a pecu-
liar shape, a rare beauty she had once thought
and now what a train of recollections it
brought back, how well she remembered the
night he had given it to her under the great
elm tree, in the yard,and pledged his faith, his
honor, the devotion of a life time, and begged
her to be his promised bride, and with maiden
blushes, and modest downcast eyes more elo-
quent than words, she had given him his silent
answer.  The few months that followed the
betrothal had been full of sweetness and the
tenderest association lovers could enjoy whose
sentiments were so near akin.  But in their 
case the old adage proved true, “The course of
true love never runs smooth.”
	But we must not leave Aunt Dorothy shiver-
ing in the garret while we go over her past life,
and tell what befell her, and why she was a
lonely old maid in the home of her childhood,


where the third generation was now growing
up, instead of being a happy grandmother like
her sister-in-law who was only a few years
older.
	Singular coincidences sometimes transpire;
that might almost lead us to believe in the
fatuity of certain events acting upon each other,
years had passed by since anything had hap-
pened to call up these tender reminiscences in
Aunt Dorothy’s past and now just a faded old
ribbon had awakened a torrent of emotions,
and a flood of events came rushing onward.
	The shades of evening were falling and Miss
Vose gathered up the broken box and scraps
of paper in her black silk apron and fled down
the stairs to her own room as though all the
ghosts of those haunted memories were follow-
her. Once in her chamber with the door se-
curely fastened, she picked up piece by piece
the broken workbox where these papers had
been hidden away. She knew the box well, it
had been a handsome one inlaid with pearl,
but now fallen apart, disclosing its contents. 
But how came the ring in the possession of the
the owner of the box; that was a mystery she 
could never expect to unravel, not even if
she could make up her mind to read the let-
ters, which she hardly dared to think of yet
though they were in her keeping. She took
the faded fragments one by one and laid them
together, and the broken box and put them in
a drawer and turned the key as if to shut
them out of her sight, and away from the
temptation of reading them. Her face was
paler than usual, and her limbs quivered as
she descended to the dining-room when supper
was announced, but apparently no one noticed
anything unusual in her face or manner ex-
cept little Helen, who had not forgotten how
strangely her aunt had questioned her about
the yellow ribbon, and when they were leav-
ing the table the child approached her saying,
“Are you ill Aunt Dorothy?” “No child, not
ill, only thinking, thinking of the long ago,
when I wore the faded yellow ribbon.” “Were
you a little girl then like me?” inquired the
little grand-niece. “O, no, I was a young
lady with great expectations,” said Aunt
Dorothy with a strong emphasis on the two
last words. Little Helen looked puzzled, but
with childish persistency she pursued her in-
quiries, “Was that when your picture was
painted that hangs in grandpa’s room over
his desk.” “My picture was painted so long
ago I really don’t know. I never look at it.
It is not like your mamma’s Aunt Dorothy
is it?” “Yes a little, I believe you had the
yellow ribbon on that’s what made you take
so much notice of it when you saw it today.”
Miss Vose was glad the child was satisfied
and soon after retired for the night; should
not however yet make up her mind to read the
letters, a sort of dread of discovering some
disagreeable secret seemed to forbid the perusal.
She tried in vain to sleep, the wretched past
came so vividly to mind, that the gray dawn
of morning found her still tossing upon her
pillows, her head aching and eyelids heavy
with weeping. Finally she fell asleep; the
bright sunshine streaming into her room awoke
her, and she started up suddenly but lay
down for a moment or two and thought over
again the dream from which she had been
aroused. She had certainly had a remarkable
dream.
	At the breakfast table the family noticed
her pale face and languid manner and
anxiously inquired what the matter was, for
they all dearly loved Aunt Dorothy; she re-
plied perhaps the peculiar dream she had that
morning was the cause, and her brother and
his daughter joined in the request that she
should tell the dream.
	And she related it as follows: "I dreamed
a stranger came to the house and told us of
some golden plates, that had been shown by

[Column 2]
an angel to a young man, who had handled
them and had seen the characters engraved
upon them in a language not known to him,
but afterwards had translated them by the in-
spiration of the Holy Ghost, and the transla-
tion had been published in a book; and he had
the book with him and showed it to us, and
then the scene changed and we were in the
woods about a mile from here where the river is
deep between those big rocks, and the same
stranger stood in the water and baptized us
all, and I shivered with cold and woke with
the sun shining into my room.
	“Dorothy”said her brother addressing her“did
you know the man who came bearing this
Gospel message?” Dorothy replied rather re-
luctantly, “I think I did it was one we knew
intimately in days gone by.” Mr. Vose knew
very well what his sister meant when she
spoke thus, for they never had mentioned his
name for years, even to each other. “I can-
not think why I should dream of him after
all these long years, but it was a singular
dream don't you think so?” “Very strange,
but then you must not think of it, you look
quite ill and sad, and if you brood over such
hallucinations and night visions, you will be
getting ‘the blues’ in earnest.
	Dorothy did not tell her brother how she
had found the missing ring and the letters the
day before, reason enough why she should
dream of her old lover, but during the day
the dream and the reality both troubled her,
and she resolved to put an end to her imagi
nary fears by going over the old letters to
see why they had been left behind, when those
whom she was sure they most concerned had
fled like fugitives and had never returned.
	What was the lady’s amazement when she
put on her spectacles and looked at the papers
to find one of her own letters, addressed to
Miss Dorothy Vose, Shutesbury, Mass. It
was sealed with a pink wafer and on it was
the initial L. She paused in a tremor of ex-
citement. Why had this letter lain there all
these years hidden away from her, and she un-
knowing of its ever having been written. She
could not open it now, it seemed too much
joy—and yet she knew not what it contained,
but it was from Edward, her lover—O,so long
ago—and yet she could never hear his name,
without her heart beating more rapidly, and
her face betraying the emotion felt within.
	She took up the fragments of paper one by
one, and found some in his handwriting ad-
dressed to Miss Mary Stacy, her cousin, and
rival, she could not and would not read them,
she fancied she knew the purport of their
contents. Her own letter, she kissed again
and again, and tried to summon courage to
read it, she had no need to break the pretty
seal, for the corners, were worn and it was
easy to open the folds, for those were not the
days of envelopes, remember; she turned the
letter over and over, until a curl of pretty
auburn hair fell from it, and she could no
longer resist the desire to see what he had
written in the long ago.
	The auburn curl was more than the emerald
ring, for it was part of himself; he might be
dead, she knew not; but this pretty curl was
something she could keep; how vexed she had
felt when Helen found the ribbon, but now
how glad, it had led to the unfolding of a
mystery, the lost ring, and the auburn curl,
two treasures she would cherish while life
lasted; the hatred and jealousy of her cousin
were gone now, though the sorrow had never
left her heart, but she had long ago forgiven
them both, and would have been glad to know
if they were still living, for love outlives envy,
jealousy and rivalry, it is purer, and better,
and more enduring.
	And the letter, methinks I hear you say;
it was hours before dear Aunt Dorothy had
the courage to open its folds. It was like a

[Column 3]
message from an unknown region, out of the
beautiful past. At last she took up the scraps
and put them together for as she tried to open
it—the pieces fell apart—and her heart almost
stood still while she gazed upon the words—
Miss Dorothy Vose once my afficanced wife:
the letter was dated Boston Mass. Jan. 1805,
and in it he poured out in burning words his
love, his disappointment, reproaching her for
inconstancy and entreating her to accept a
lock of his hair, that in some lonely hour
when she had forgotten his devotion she might
be reminded of him; the ring he had given
her he asked her to keep but never to wear it
again, as it had been a pledge of mutual love
and constancy as well as of their betrothal.
	In conclusion he said “I have long been
aware that your cousin Mary loved me, and
when she returns to Boston, if I hear no more
from you, I shall ask her hand in marriage.
If I cannot win the heart of her whom I have
chosen out of all the world, I will devote my-
self to making another happy, who loves me
with unutterable tenderness. Farewell! and
if we never meet again remember that you
have driven me from you with your pride
and hauteur.”
	The words were cruel and hastily penned no
doubt, but poor Dorothy never had the oppor-
tunity to reply to them nor had she even
known that Edward deigned to make any
explanation of his singular conduct.
	It was true that Mary loved him, she had
never disguised her feelings in her cousin's
presence though she was her guest and aware
of the engagement. Dorothy saw her lover
drift away from her, and her modesty and
reticence kept her from any demonstration of
her suffering. Edward attributed it to cold-
ness and indifference. Mary was well versed
in the art of coquetry, and it was an easy
matter to win her country cousin’s lover, her
heart was in the matter too, for though she
had gone through two or three gay seasons,
since she became of age; no one had ever in-
terested her like Edward Laselle.
	He was indeed a brilliant young man, with
bright prospects in store and it was not strange
that she should love him, but he was blind
not to see that behind the reserve of Miss
Dorothy there was a depth of sentiment that
her cousin Mary was incapable of feeling; she
was a gay butterfly of fashion, fond of dancing
and society, while her country cousin was
staid and womanly fond of home-life and ready
to make sacrifices for the happiness of others
instead of seeking her own.
	But we will not go back into the details of
the occurrences that had left Miss Dorothy
alone in the old home, there is no need for in
a short time after the finding of the letter and
the ring, her dream came to pass literally.
	One Sabbath evening in mid-winter the
family were seated round the fire talking over
the sermon they had heard that day, and Aunt
Dorothy expressed some dissatisfaction as to
the genuineness of the preacher: “It did not
come from his heart,” she argued and was
therefore ineffective, “what would I give to
hear the voice of a true preacher of righteous-
ness?” added the lady, and she continued
“hear the Scriptures expounded as I under-
stand them,I am weary of the tone and manner
of our orthodox ministers, it has grown
monotonous to me.” “Dorothy” said her
brother, who was the only one who ever dared
to disagree with the lady, “don’t you think
you are growing very extreme in your ideas?
Is there anything that comes up to your
standard of excellence? Aren’t you looking
for a miracle, remember these are not the days
of the Savior and his Apostles, though we do
profess to be his followers.”
	“Yes but we’ve all gone astray, priests
and people, and for me I am longing for
	[Continued on page 110.]


The light is fading in the West—the many
tints of brightness have left the waving cloud-
lets and now they nestle together like pure
white-winged doves upon the broad blue heaven.
So beautifully blue. The old year is dying,
and visions of the past rise before us, softened
and mellowed by the idolizing tough of
memory—Years flow back full of voices
eloquent and pathetic: pavilions and gaves, pas-
sages of deep feelings strange and varied experi-
ences, withered garlands, broken rings, vases once
fragrant with flowers, hopes that failed,
buried expectations, and many a joy whereon the
memorial wreath is laid. These things back
of us known only to heaven, help to shape
our lives. Dear faces, the pressure of hands,
snatches of song, the light of long closed eyes,
and the distant murmnr of solemn earnest
prayer. All these we treasure reverently. Oh !
is it not a blessed faith that tells us of a life
immortal? By and by all lost things will come
back unto us,—like ships with which we
parted by night, they will come back fairer
than they went to anchorage. Here we watch
and wait, while the years roll on and away
with this life, giving soul cheering faith, when
shall come the fulfillment of a hope founded
on the immutable promises and boundless love
of the Almight Father, And the old conflicts
shall pass away and disappear amid the
everlasting light of a glorious Day.
	L. M. H.
	Atchison Kan.


