A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	What associations that phrase recalls! What
vivid pictures of the past, what prophetic
visions of the future! There is no other
particular day recognized as a holiday, so sig-
nificant of happiness to me, as the first day of
the new year. The term “a happy new year,”
so long and so universally applied, has given
it tone and prestige; and a glad response
springs from the heart of each recipient, when
the accustomed salutations are interchanged.
There are few people indeed in ‘civilized
countries, who do not observe some special
ceremonies on  "New Year’s Day."  Customs
change somewhat in detail, but in reality they
have been much the same for the last hundred
years. The season itself is calculated to con-
duce to happiness; and happiness is the
phantom that all pursue. In winter, families
come into closer accord; a great share of labor
which calls one from home is necessarily laid
aside, and more time is usually devoted to
fireside conversation, to reading, to study, and
to employments that savor of the home.
	Home! what a magic word! Is there a human
heart that does not feel a thrill of pleasure,
whenever the word home is uttered? How
many tender recollections, how many sacred
reminiscences it brings to mind! The word
has a peculiar meaning to the Latter-day
Saint, who knows so well what it is to be an
exile; but I must return to my subject, New
Year’s Day and winter pleasures, when the
outside world is under the absolute sway of
the king of frost and snow, and we depend
upon the domain within, for companionship
and amusement. The harvest has been
gathered, and its fruits garnered away; the'
husbandman rejoices in the abundance he has
reaped from his toil, and the good wife who
shared in the husband’s labors, partakes of the
enjoyment, and a spirit of peace broods over
the habitation, and contentment sits with them
at the hearthstone. New Year’s Eve finds
the family seated round the fireside—the
bright warm curtains are closely drawn and
each one tries to interest the other. The little
folks in the background prattle in childish, pas-
time, and sport their new dolls and Christmas
toys, while the older ones recite snatches of
verse and sing old-time songs. How many en-
chanting stories of fairies and genii have been
repeated by the winter fire, when the taper
burned low, and voices were hushed, save the
one on whom all were gazing, while they lis-
tened with strained eyes and bated breath.
The situation has its effect. How often in
childhood have I listened to these marvelous
tales, told with a grave ‘ loftiness of manner,
while, in the reflection of the flickering light,
fantastic shadows flitted about, and seemed to
take on living forms; and every nerve thrilled
with the intense excitement, producing an im-
pression never to be effaced. Ah! where was
I? At New Year’s Eve! Here let us pause
for one retrospective moment, and look back
over the hills of the radiant past, and ask our
own hearts some solemn questions, which each
one is best prepared to answer for himself?


[Column 1]
﻿What precious fruit have we garnered for the
soul’s heritage?  What evil have we overcome
in our own erring natures, and what sacrifices
have we made of self?  If wo have not been
seeking wisdom from the living fountain of
knowledge, it is a good time now to commence.
The year is slipping fast away, soon the New
Year will be upon us; it seems almost as
though we were parting with an old friend, so
strong is the imagination. It is an eve of sad-
ness and yet of joy; there are many pleasant
realisms, which fill the lap of life with bless-
ings; and if there are some sorrows, some re-
grets, some human pain, let us acknowledge
God in all things, and, trustful in His provi-
dence, look into the bright new year with hope-
ful glance, never doubting His kind care and 
protection.
	The New Year!  Yes, I hear the bells ring-
ing, and their echo is answering back, telling
such tales!  O, those wondrous bells! I linger
pen in hand, to catch the sound; like magic
their spell is upon me—are there no bells ring-
ing here to-night? What was it then? I heard
the rich tones floating in the air.  Ah me!
the bells of memory! Is fancy then so power-
ful? O those merry, merry bells! what a vision
they have presented to my view.  I am a child
again for one brief moment; in an old fashioned
house I see familiar faces, I hear them sing—
they open the doors, and a flood of music fills
the whole house, echoing from room to room;
it is the music of the midnight bells; and all at
once a rich burst; the melody of human voices
in joyous chorus, shouting “A happy new
year?”
	Tenderly we take leave of the old; re-
luctantly we reach out to the future, knowing
not what it may bring in its train.  We are
blest to-day—friends, loving, warm and true
are round about us.  How grateful all should
be who are surrounded with the blessed
luxuries of home and friends. The new year
is a fitting time for re-unions, sweet inter-
changes of affection, the precious endearments
that sweeten the cup of life, the graces that
embellish the sanctuary of the heart.  There
should be no deceit, no affectation at such
seasons, but heart speaking to heart without
flattery or empty compliment.  Let it be one
of the fresh, green places in our lives towards
which, in after years, we may turn with a
sense of infinite restfulness, a refuge of peace
in moments of pain.  That which ye sow, ye
shall also reap—if we sow the seeds of love
and kindness in youth, may we not anticipate
a rich harvest of blessed love in return, when
the winter of age has silvered over the shin-
ing hair, and one by one, bright hopes, fondly
nurtured. have faded away? While we cherish
reverently the beautiful past, and our hearts
yearn for the tender tones that have long
since been forever hushed in the stillness of
death—let us not forget the living, who are
hungering all around us for love and affec-
tion.
	It is well to be fully alive to the needs of
the overflowing present, for no greater age
was ever ushered in than the one in which
we are now living.  There are grand possibil-
ities to engage in of sufficient importance to
satisfy the most ambitious; but nothing gives
to life such complete fulness of expression as
domestic happiness.  Without it the whole 
world would be an aching void.  The greatest 
men who ever lived, while standing upon the
pinnacle of fame, have felt the sorest need of
sympathy, have pined for true, unselfish devo-
tion.  Strong in intellect, yet, in moments of
weakness and doubt that come alike to all,
needing human love to give them courage.
Everything  which tends to exalt human
character should be encouraged, and the culti-
vation of domestic affections assuredly en-

[Column 2]
nobles and beautifies life. The homes of the 
people are sure indications of their capabilities.
Build up the home, fortify it with walls of
affection, hedge it round with delicate germs
of tenderness, and let it be ever curtained
with gentle charity. Like fragrant flowers
along our pathway, whose perfume lingers
with us, long after passing, are the blessed
holidays, scattered here and there along the
road of life, helping to brighten the dreary
way; and one of the best of these is New Year’s
Day.
