ARTICLE VI.
	This Constitution may be altered or amended
by a majority vote of the Council at any triennial
meeting, printed notice thereof having been sent
to each member of the Executive Committee at
least three months prior to such meeting.

	It will perhaps be remembered by the readers
of the EXPONENT that the organizations of the
Relief Society, Mutual Improvement Associations
and Primary were each represented at the Inter-
national Council in 1888—and that it will be
the proper thing to represent them again after
three years growth and increase. The women of
Utah should not be behind in any good work but
march onward and keep pace with the spirit of
the times; standing side by side with the great
enterprises that are being engaged in for the ad-
vancement of all humanity. It is doubtful in the
mind of the writer, if there is any organization of
women that has accomplished so much in the
various departments of woman's work, elevation,
and higher cultivation as has the Relief Society.
Thousands upon thousands of dollars have been
received and disbursed, industries started, and in
many ways it has been advantageous for the
community as well as those directly engaged in
the active work. Its basis is broad, deep and
high; while its first efforts are for the relief of
the poor, the sick and unfortunate, it reaches
out to all kinds of reforms, and the cultivation of
the grandest powers of which the human soul is
capable.
	The Relief Society has branches in many other
lands as well as the United States and Canada.
In England, Scotland, Germany, Switzerland,
Norway, Sweden and Denmark, also on the
Sandwich and Samoan Islands, in Australia and
New Zealand. The organization is so perfect that
those at a distance are in communication with the
Central Board in this City and keep posted in re-
gard to all matters that are for the benefit of the
whole Society. Reports are received, and a

[Column 2]

General Report made semi-annually. These re-
ports include what comes under the head of
statistical and financial information but the mental
moral and spiritual elevation and the knowledge
acquired with many other noble deeds of devotion
and the alleviation of suffering humanity are only
recorded in the archives of heaven and engraven
on the hearts of those who have been partakers
of these blessings.


