Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes and to apply their beautiful truths in our daily lives.
"Blessed are the Meek, for they shall inherit the earth."
Whom does Jesus call the blessed people? Those who are meek. By meek is meant?gentle, kind, indulgent. He who is meek is of gentle and long-suffering disposition; is submissive and complacent; not proud, but humble and lowly. These virtues are all opposed to pride or conceit.
Meekness must not be confused with self-depreciation. Meekness is a virtue which can be exercised both towards God and towards man; and inasmuch as it involves self-control, it is not a weak but an heroic quality. "He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a city." Prov. 16:32.
In the life and labors of Jesus, meekness was manifest to a marked degree. He was willing at all times to submit to the will of God, saying?"Thy will and not mine be done." In loving kindness he mingled with the lowly, and even with the sinners in need of inspiration of a better life.
Moses the great prophet and leader of ancient days was a man of meekness and humility. Reference is made to this outstanding virtue in Numbers 12:3, "Now the man Moses was very meek above all the men which were upon the face of the earth."
The life of Jesus was an example of this great doctrine?"Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister."?Matthew 20:26.
Let us then weed out intolerance, pride, and selfishness, and with gratitude in our hearts make meekness a habit of our lives. By so doing, we may enlarge and enrich our lives, and live in a world of peace and good will.
Our blessings are not always immediate, so our faith must prompt us to look far into the future for our rewards. We must struggle with our problems?oftentimes poverty and sickness?but be patient in the thought that our blessings are of an eternal character, and will endure forever.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Literature