EDITORIAL Relief Society Gives Thanks for New Members ELIEF Society has great cause for rejoicing! At this time of year when hearts and minds are given to thanksgiving and a recounting of blessings, Relief Society counts its many blessings in the form of approximately twenty thousand new members. New members come into the organization bringing gifts, gifts of eager interest and contagious enthusiasm. They bring new vigor and a willingness to participate. Added strength is given the organization in spirit as well as numbers by the new members who thirst to be a vital part of a living, growing, serving society. New members must be made to feel pride in the great traditions of Relief Society and to recognize the value of keeping traditions alive. Pioneer women kept their culture and refinement in spite of the hardships of frontier life. They did not bow to expediency, live only for the moment, or let privation dictate a lowering of standards. Beauty lived with them and was made part of their environment by ingenious use of whatever was available. Their 824 talents were not allowed to be buried by adversity. 'This proud tradition has been a moving force throughout the years of the existence of Relief Society. Should the new members ask the meaning of Relief Society and what its values are, the answer would, of necessity, be long. It cannot be stated in one sentence. Like a jewel, it has many facets, all contributing to its beauty and value; facets which diffuse their light and radiance and bring joy to the beholder. The true meaning of Relief Society lies in the fact that it ls a divinely instituted society, established for women by an_ inspired Prophet of God, through which they may serve and learn to live abundantly. It is apparent in the reasons for its organization and the purposes and goals of its programs, procedures, and activities. The true meaning lies in the position Relief Society holds and _ its influence upon the women of the Church, as well as those not of the Church, who have found affiliation beneficial and desirable. Leadership and ability to magnify those who are Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larse Edith P. Backman' e B. Stoddard Winniefred 5. ~ W. Peterson Manwaring M. Young Elna P. Haymond. Bay Annie M. Elisworth called to positions in the society are facets of its greatness. 'The fact that this organization of the mothers. Of the Church stands side by side with the Priesthood of the Church, a helpmate to the Priesthood in the sacred responsibility of furthering the work of the Lord, is evidence of its worth. The true meaning of Relief Society is a measure of its refining influence upon the women, their spiritual aura, gracious dignity, and poise; making of them cultured women, discriminating, discerning women, selfless and loving, friendly women. Its numerous activities fulfill the needs of women for spiritual enlightenment and education. Devotion to the principles of the gospel, dedication to keeping the commandments of the Father, love and willingness to give of themselves, characterize members of Relief Society. The true meaning of Relief Society is exemplified in the homes, in well-taught children, in honored husbands, in homes whose spiritual environments are beautiful. Latterday Saint homes receiving its teachWealtha S. Mendenhall Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny §. Kienitz ings and the enlarged vision it gives of righteous living are happier. The true meaning of Relief Society lies in work — splendid work — wholehearted, purposeful, dedicated work. It is shown in the joy it shares, the cherishing, tender watchcare it gives, and the spirit of compassion that fills the hearts of its members. The true meaning of Relief Society and its ultimate aim are seen in the knowledge it imparts and the testimonies it strengthens of the divinity of the Savior and the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The true meaning of Relief Society is sisterhood, world-wide as well as next-door-neighbor _ sisterhood, which reaches out to embrace those whom its extended arms may enfold. This wonderful group of new members is received with heartfelt thanksgiving. In praise and gratitude to our Heavenly Father we welcome them to the organization of his choice daughters. —L. W. M. In Memoriam—Fern Tanner Lee November 14, 1896 — September 24, 1962 T was with saddened hearts that Relief Society sisters throughout the world learned of the passing of Fern 'Tanner Lee, wife of Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve. She died on Monday, September 24, 1962, in Salt Lake City, after being in ill health for the past few months. Heartfelt tributes were paid to her at her funeral, and the profuse and lovely pastel-colored flowers and beautiful and moving musical selections typified the love of Sister Lee for all things beautiful. President McKay praised her lovely, noble character, her tenderness and vet her strength to meet the trials of life; President Moyle pointed out how Sister Lee had inspired her husband all the way in their married life and that they two would always be seen as one. Bishop Richard S. 'Tanner, a nephew of Sister Lee, gave glimpses of her family life and the outstanding Church services of her forebears. Luacine Clark Fox paid tribute to her for her devotion and loyalty as a wife, her inspiring teachings as the mother of two daughters and grandmother of ten, and her valued services to the women of the Church, both young and older. Relief Society members throughout most of the world have had the privilege of meeting with Sister Lee and will recall her graciousness, refinement, and quiet helpfulness as she accompanied Elder Lee on his important Church assignments when, sometimes, her own health was not robust. Everywhere she exemplified wifely devotion, cheerfulness, and a forgetfulness of self. The General Presidency of Relief Society will miss her counsel and assistance in matters on which she has rendered service to Relief Society. Prayers of faith and comfort in behalf of Elder Lee and his family will be offered by Relief Society members everywhere at the passing of his dearly beloved wife, Fern. In Memoriam—Amy Whipple Evans December 15, 1871 — September 6, 1962 MY Whipple Evans, a former member of the General Board of Relief Society, died September 6, 1962, in Denver, Colorado. A woman of outstanding spiritual and intellectual gifts, she served Relief Society as a General Board member for eighteen years (1921-1939). She was for a number of years supervisor of the social service department of Relief Society. In appreciation for her service in this field of social work, a fellowship in her honor was established at the University of Utah. Talented and beautiful, she was a woman who offered her time and energy for the upbuilding of Church and community, and to the instruction and inspiration of the women of Zion.