VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 45 — "Pray Always That You Enter Not Into Temptation" (D & C 61:39). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, Objective: To show that prayer is the shield the Lord provides to help us overcome temptation. NE of the greatest blessings which can come to us from our Father in heaven is the power to_discern and overcome temptation. In his struggle to capture men's souls, Satan has no more. Powerful tool than that of temptaoOo ee. Tion. He knows that no man ever becomes extremely wicked all at once. Sin, and the ultimate de. Struction that. Les it, lS a gradual and, often, a relatively unobvious process. President McKay has wisely said: LESSON DEPARTMENT often comes in the same quiet way. Perhaps yielding to it may not be known by anyone save the individual and his God, but if he ote aoake to it, he becomes a a ing this, our Father in heaven has provided us with a shield against this subtle, but powerful, force of temptation. He has counseled us to "Pray always that you enter not into temptation." In the Book of Mormon, Alma admonishes "'call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above that which ye can bear' (Alma mea:25). 1" Regardless of the nature of our faith or the strength of our testimonies, we are always subject to the pitfalls of temptation. This is why we have been counseled to so live as always to have around us the protective influence of the Lord's spit. 'This is what President J Reuben Clark, Jr., meant when he said, "Build around yourselves an impregnable fortress of righteousness and depart not from your | citadel" (Brigham Young University! Commencement Address, 1949). §-An Arab legend recounts that when Gabriel was depriving Lucifer of the weapons he needed to conquer men's souls, the wiley tempter persuaded Gabriel to allow him to | keep one device — the weapon of discouragement. He knew that with ——__- 853 this weapon he could entice men into even grievous sins. Recently, a young mother was beset with many troubles which seemed to move in upon her from tall directions. When she sought., counsel on how to bear these burdens, she was advised, "If you have trouble and Lucifer tempts you, pray to your Father in heaven and the dark clouds will disappear and you will go on your way rejoicing." She was advised to pray constantly in her heart and to live for twentyfour hours as if Jesus were right beside her. This she did, and learned that when she approached each temptation and problem with the conviction that the Savior was by her side, her fears and discouragements vanished. She found she was able to control her temper, which so often before had controlled her. She was kinder and more understanding than she had been before. This was the effect of the Lord's spirit and the fulfillment of the promise which the Lord gives to all of us that the presence of his spirit will help us to avoid temptation. This thought is beautifully expressed in the well-known hymn I need thee every hour, stay thou near by; Temptations lose their power when thou art nigh. (L. D. S. Hymns, page 79). Prayer, then, is the real shield against temptation. Each of us should follow our Lord's counsel, "Pray always that you enter not into temptation" (D & C 61:39).