LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 37 — The Literary Lincoln Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York) For Third Meeting, Objective: To establish a closer interrelationship between Lincoln's character and _ his writings, that we may more fully appreciate the genius of both. O every American, Abraham Lincoln seems as familiar as the five-dollar bills in our purses and pockets and as near as the fourcent stamps our tongues have moistened. Each February we publicly recirculate the worn, yet beloved stories of his walking miles to return borrowed books, of dropping behind his fellow travelers to pull a pig out of the mire, and restore fuzzy, peeping birds to their nest, of saving sleeping sentries from execution, of saving the Union and freeing the slaves. If our modern educators' routine memory exercise is ever ignored, it is only to permit our youths to memorize the Gettysburg Address, which is well worth memorizing. We give his name to schools and cars, logs and insurance, while from year to year the Lincoln stories grow of their own momentum. But often they are akin to the legends we absorbed at the same time we came to "know" Abraham Lincoln; our childhood image of Lincoln dominates our adult years as well, often with their familiar stories, serving, 856 actually, to prevent our adult rediscovery of him. How temptingly easy it is to coast along on our familiar generalizations about him, inevitably true since "we have known them all our lives." Yet few ventures into the American past yield greater insight into our mature selves than does a serious attempt to know Lincoln the man, Lincoln the symbol, Lincoln the man of the people who, in the words of Gamaliel Bradford, "still smiles and remains impenetrable." Actually, instead of thus generalizing we might be discovering for ourselves the mystery and charm of Lincoln, one of America's truly great men. In scarcely a hundred years, more has been written about him than about any other figure in world history except Jesus of Nazareth and Napoleon. But before we begin our pioneering quest for the "new" Lincoln we should pause to define our goals. Is it to know Lincoln as history or Lincoln as biography? Our goal is to know the man; our paths to this goal: history and his own words. LESSON DEPARTMENT | The Young Lincoln By virtue of the time and place in which his youth was _ spent, Lincoln excelled in the first three of the four popular recreations: stump-speaking, wrestling, storytelling, and horse-racing. These were social graces which, early mastered, he loved and used throughout his life as social tools, and as relaxation from the unbearable strains of the Civil War years. In later years he did not wrestle, though he always enjoyed exhibiting his extraordinary physical strength. He sometimes told stories merely to entertain, but often either to deflect a point being pressed to his disadvantage, or to sharpen one to his advantage. It was in his lifelong zeal to express his thoughts in the best manner possible that Lincoln revealed himself as the conscious literary artist that he was. And it was through mastering his speaking and writing skills that he achieved power over men, preliminary eminence, and eventually greatness. It was his scrupulous concern to get his words on the page just right that is not to be accounted for, and that reveals his genius. His stepmother recalled how he labored to improve his style: When he came across a passage that Struck him, he would write it down on boards if he had no paper, and keep it there till he did get paper, then he would rewrite it, look at it, repeat it (Barzun, Jaques: "Lincoln the Literary Genius," Saturday Evening Post, February 14, 1959, page 63). (Reprinted by special permission of The Saturday Evening Post, C 1959, the Curtis Publishing Company). William H. Herndon, his law 857 ABRAHAM LINCOLN From an Official Presidential Portrait partner for almost twenty years, likewise told how obsessed Lincoln was to find the right word to express his exact thought, how impatient he often became upon finding in others' writing "abstractions, glittering generalities, indefiniteness, mistiness of idea or expression." Because, occasionally, in his informal moments Lincoln told stories so spontaneously and delightfully in his regional "twang," he sometimes offended cultured, educated people. Until the 1920's his biographers either maintained that he never achieved a literary style of any distinction, or that suddenly his great style was achieved during the war years. The passing of time has worked to our advantage, first by freeing us from nineteenth-century standards of literary and oratorical fashion, so that we may judge his words on 858 their intrinsic merits; second, scholarship has revealed how carefully Lincoln worked over his written words, that they might present his entire self and intent clearly and powerfully. Invaluable is the firsthand account of Major Eckert, Superintendent of the Military Telegraph, who told how Lincoln came to his quiet office to work without interruption on the first draft of the Emancipation Proclamation: He would look out of the window awhile and then put his pen to paper, but he did not write much at once. He would study between times and when he had made up his mind he would put down a line or two, and then sit quiet for a few minutes. After a time, he would resume his writing.... When he came to the office on the following day he asked for the papers, and I unlocked the desk for him. This he did nearly every day for several weeks. Some days he would not write more than a line or two, and once I observed that he put question marks on the margin. He would read over each day all the matter he had previously written and _ revise _ it, studying carefully each sentence. Such testimony proves how meticulous a stylist Lincoln was, and how well he knew and practiced the basic principle of composition, "Hard writing makes easy reading." Time also permits us to realize the truth of what we already know; that the style is always the man, and that as the man grew and deepened and broadened, so did his writing style. As early as 1832, when he was only twenty-one years of age, he wrote well-ordered thoughts, both clear and moving, which early reveal his inborn ability to move people by so completely feeling each word that the reader cannot escape becoming Lincoln, at least in part, and thus hearing him sympathetically: Fellow-citizens, I shall conclude. Considering the great degree of modesty which should always attend youth, it is probable I have already been more presuming than becomes me. However, upon the subjects of which I have treated, I have spoken as I thought. I may be wrong in regard to any or all of them; but holding it a sound maxim, that it is better to be only sometimes right, than at all times wrong, so soon as I discover my opinions to be erroneous, I shall be ready to renounce them. After explaining that his greatest ambition is to make himself worthy of his fellow-men's esteem, and explaining that he is young, unknown, and humble, with "no wealthy or popular relations" to recommend him, he skillfully places his fate in the hands of the voters who, if they choose to elect him, will confer upon him a favor he will "labor unremittingly to compensate." He wrote But if the good people in their wisdom shall see fit to keep me in the background, I have been too familiar with disappointments to be very much chagrined. Your friend and fellow-citizen, A. Lincoln. New Salem, March 9g, 1832. Lincoln's Greatness The facets of Lincoln's greatness are many: humor, kindness, patience, ability to judge men and events, strong will, high dedication to honesty, fairness, equality, and the basic principles of morality, democracy, and religion. Our concem, however, is to prove his greatness through his written words, which are a most enduring and important legacy to the future. If we grant that like begets like, LESSON DEPARTMENT | A Perry Picture 859 LINCOLN'S HOME, SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS and that great prose is produced only by a great mind-imaginationsoul, it then follows that the flawless style which he perfected is but further product and proof of his greatness. Although as a lad he read Shakespeare, Bunyan, Burns, Defoe, and the Bible by fielight, and though during his first year as Congressman he read much, hoping to improve the coherence and directness of his style of writing, his mature Style is entirely his own, just as it is without precedent in American literature. And the dominant characteristics of his style — precision, brevity, rhythm, poetic eloquence — are the very identity of the man himself, and best represent him. Examples of each best prove the point. Precision I would save the Union. I would Save it the shortest way under the Constitution. The sooner the national authority can be restored, the nearer the Union will be "the Union as it was." If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time save slavery, I do not agree with them. If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time destroy slavery, I do not agree with them.... I shall do less whenever I shall believe what I am doing hurts the cause, and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause. I have here stated my purpose according to my view of official duty; and I intend no modification of my oft-expressed personal wish that all men everywhere could be free. Yours, A. Lincoln. —(Excerpt from Lincoln's reply to Horace Greely ) =n Speech at flag-raising ceremony beome the Treasury Building: The part assigned to me is to raise the flag, which if there be no fault in the machinery, I will do, and when up, it will be for the people to keep it up. 860 2. To General Grant, who had _ telegraphed, "If the thing is pressed, I think that Lee will surrender," Lincoln replied, "Let the thing be pressed." 3. Written in June 1858, when requested to supply the story of his life for the Dictionarv of Congress: Born, February 12, 1809, in Hardin County, Kentucky. Education, defective. Profession, a lawyer. Have been a captain of volunteers in Black Hawk War. Postmaster at a very small office. Four times a member of the Illinois legislature, and was a member of the lower house of Congress. Yours etc. A. Lincoln. Balance and Rhythm 1. (Delivered February 11, 1861 to his friends in Springfield who stood in a light rain as he addressed them from the rear platform of his special train which was to bear him to Washington and the Presidency). My friends — No one, not in my situation, can appreciate my feeling of sadness at this parting. To this place, and the kindness of these people, I owe everything. Here I have lived a quarter of a century, and have passed from a young to an old man. Here my children have been born, and one is buried. I now leave, not knowing when, or whether ever, I may return, with a task before me greater than that which rested upon Washington. Without the assistance of that Divine Being who ever attended him, I cannot succeed. With that assistance I cannot fail. Trusting in Him, who can go with me, and remain with you and be everywhere for good, let us confidently hope that all will yet be well. To His care commending you, as I hope in your prayers you will commend me, I bid you an affectionate farewell. Poetic Eloquence I am loath to close. We are not encmies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battle-field and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature (First Inaugural, final paragraph). Equally grand in its simplicity, then climaxed in a similar poetic passage, are the final lines of his Second Inaugural, delivered March 4, 1865, just forty days before his martyrdom: Fondly do we hope — fervently do we pray — that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand years ago, so still must it be said, "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the nght, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan — to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves, and with all nations. Despite the dark events of the Civil War, a vast commemorative service at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, had been planned for October, but when the orator of the day, SenatorGovernor-President of Harvard University Edward Everett, announced he could not be prepared by such a date, the event was post- LESSON DEPARTMENT poned to November 109, 1863. President Lincoln was invited to be present and, after the main oration, to formally "set apart these grounds to their sacred use by a few appropriate remarks." Before leaving Washington the day previous, he filled a sheet of paper with memoranda, then read it to his bodyguard, commenting it was not at all satisfactory, but that he had been too busy to give it more time. He arrived in the tiny village of Gettysburg the preceding evening. The next morning after a parade the governors and cabinet members took their places on the platform, then listened to the bands play until noon, for Mr. Everett, the orator of the day, had not yet arrived. Finally he came, and for one hour and fifty-seven minutes he addressed the crowd, estimated as high as 50,000. After a glee club sang an ode, Lincoln put on his steel-bowed glasses, and holding his two sheets of paper in one hand, arose to read from them in his "high-pitched, clear-carrying voice, the brief speech which has become so famous." Fourscore and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth upon this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation — or any nation, so conceived and so dedicated — can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We are met to dedicate a portion of it as the final resting place of those who have given their lives that the nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our power to add or to detract. The world will very little note nor long remember what we say here; but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here, to the unfinished work that they have thus far so nobly carried on. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us; that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion, that we here highly re solve that these dead shall not have died in vain; that the nation shall, under God, have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth. After the perfunctory applause had ceased, the President said to his bodyguard, "Lamon, that speech won't scour. It is a flat failure and the people are disappointed." Reactions in the next day's newspapers varied. Many were critical of the President's remarks, but the Chicago Tribune reported that "the dedicatory remarks of President Lincoln will live among the annals of man," and Edward Everett wrote Lincoln, "I should be glad if I could flatter myself that I came as near to the central idea of the occasion in two hours as you did in two minutes." 'To which Lincoln replied, "In our respective parts yesterday, you could not have been excused to make a short address, nor I a long one. I am pleased to know that, in your judgment, the little I did say was not entirely a failure." Again, in judging this event, the 862 passing years have given us every advantage. As the times were new, so had Lincoln thought anew. Compared to the usual and traditional oratorical tones, Lincoln's words were terse and flat. Only in time did it become evident that out of his mind and heart had come a new pattern and tone of communtcating which was to shape a new age, new not only in America's history but in man's as well. Lincoln loved all men, = great poetry, drama, attending operas and plays, and telling good stories. The steady stream of writing about him which has only grown larger since his death now lets us also know him as timid, often melancholy and sad when he drew entirely within himself, always aloof in some degree from even his nearest intimates. He was dominated by religious ideals and longings which were the core of restless ambition and the great strength of his character. The more we study his writings, the more these qualities become evident therein, and the more fully we recognize in his carefully chosen words and rhythmic sentences the cohesive force which bound every phase of his life mto a unity. Lincoln's writings thus reveal the close relationship between the integritv of his character and his literary genius. Thoughts for Discussion 1. If Lincoln is generally accepted as symbolizing the American common man, how does such acceptance make him casier or more difficult to know? 2. What proof exists within Lincoln's own writings to show that he developed his final style over a lifetime, just as he himself came to his fullest stature and wisdom during the war years? 3. If Lincoln is seen as a complex genius and artist, which phase of his character might be fairly represented by his need for humor? By his exacting care and concern with his written words? Do you find any relationship whatsoever between these two word usages? '