[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 632 | Lesson | Literature — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth Briant | S. Jacobs]
[Literature — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth Briant S. Jacobs]

THE KINGDOM OF GOD In sacred literature, both ancient and modern, there is obviously a related meaning in the concepts of Church and kingdom. The meaning the two terms have in common refers to Christ's reign personally upon the earth. (Tenth Article of Faith.) This will require a kingdom. The Savior was responsible for the restoration of the Church, with full power and authority in the Priesthood leadership, that his kingdom might be prepared for his coming.: The Old Testament heralds the coming of the King of Glory in great power and majesty. The Jews, in accepting this idea, expected military might with which to reestablish their earthly kingdom. During Christ's ministry on earth, he informed his followers that a sign of his second coming would be when "this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come" (Matt. 24:14). Today, in the more common or 634 general usage of the concepts Church and kingdom, reference is made to the followers of Jesus Christ. A more specific meaning and usage of the concept kingdom is in reference to the actual kingdom over which Christ will rule in the last days. In this meaning the concept Church is regarded as an essential part of the kingdom. Christ has delegated his authority to man and commissioned him to set up Christ's kingdom on earth. At the proper time, he will come personally to take the reins of government. 'The Prophet Joseph reminds us, It has been the design of Jehovah, from the commencement of the world, and is His purpose now, to regulate the affairs of the world in His own time, to stand as a head of the universe, and take the reins of government in His own hand. When that is done, judgment will be administered in righteousness; anarchy and confusion will be destroyed, and "nations will learn war no more" (DHC V:63). The Prophet goes on to say that the purpose of divine government ls to "promote peace and happiness among the human family" (Ibid). The benefits of a perfect reign under the Supreme Ruler will be extended to all who live upon the earth, but only those who honor the Priesthood will function in the government of the kingdom. THEOCRACY OR DEMOCRACY IN THE CHURCH The government of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Church being the foundation of the kingdom of God upon this earth, is a theocratic form of government. This means that the operation of the Church is run by God the Eternal Father. Instruction comes down from above. Theocracy does, however, provide an abundance of democratic expression. In the various offices and callings of the Church, ample provision is made for counsel and advice in the operation of each assignment. Discussion is a_ standard procedure in Church administration, and contact with every family is a directive given to each set of officers in the Church. Discussion and contact with members, stimulated by the Spirit of God through the Holy Ghost, provide an ideal situation for the development of consensus, a vital democratic procedure. In the Doctrine and Covenants 20:65 we read, "No person is to be ordained to any office in_ this church, where there is a regularly organized branch of the same, without the vote of that church." This is an important element in the operation of the Church. Any person being sustained. In an office must stand the scrutiny of the body of the saints; such scrutiny should be done in righteousness, without the elements of jealousy, discrimination, or personal animosity. Any member of the congregation may raise his hand for or against the sustaining of any officer. Theocracy Requires Perfection. When the members of the Church and the leadership are living the principles of the gospel and are thus in tune with the Spirit of God, they can then receive divine guidance and the Church of God becomes his kingdom on earth. The function of a theocracy is to provide inspiration and revelation as to the nght way LESSON DEPARTMENT for the saints of God to go in order to realize their full potential. (See D & C 121:34-37.) The purpose of the Church, then, is to prepare the human family for membership 'and participation in the kingdom of God. It is to provide opportunity and direction for the development of the whole individual. 'The real objective is the perfection of man. There is much evidence to support the statement that God's major concern is the perfection of man. In the first place, as intelligence, we existed co-eternally with him. The sacredness of the personality is supported by the fact of the spiritual parenthood of God the Eternal Father. Each person, then, is important to him. 'This makes clear the continual effort put forth by the Creator to bring all his children back to his presence. 'The Prophet Joseph tells us that "the mind or the intelligence which man possesses is co-equal [co-eternal] with God himself" (DHC VI:310). God provided the spiritual body and thus all men became his children, and spiritual brothers and sisters. Earthly parents become co-partners with God*in bringing his spirit children into this world. The Call to Repentance. Whenever the Church of God has been upon the earth its duty has been to inform man of the purposes of life, his relationship to God, and his own potential. The Church has established, through divine law, the step-by-step process of achieving the 635 se a Se eee ee ee ee Se eee es eee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ie THREE PART CHORAL MUSIC FOR SINGING MOTHERS ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 —. COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 ro GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin _.25 a. GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner _ 30 HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn I.25 LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain.25 a LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen.20 —— LORD IS MY SHEPHERD—Smart __ - 20 —- LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 Se O LOVE THAT WILT NOT LET ME GO—Schubert.20 en OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah I i I Please send the music indicated { ' i i i above. [] On Approval ([] Charge [] Money Enclosed Name 15 E. Ist South] J Salt Lake City 11, Utah I full realization of man's divine heritage. We are told in the scripture (John 3:16-17) that "God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son" as a sacrifice so that all who believed in him could have everlasting life. 'The mission of Jesus was not to condemn, but to bring salvation to the children of men. The structions to all of the prophets have been to teach people how to gain the most out of life's experience. 'The people have been taught that repentance and baptism are essential and to recognize that the wisdom of God ls a first step to eternal progress and perfection. The Lord has reminded us that "The worth of souls is great in the sight of God" (D & C 18:10). To bring people to an acceptance of the true wav of life will mean great joy with the repentant person in the kingdom of God. Teaching people at home and abroad to accept the pattern of life that will assure them of their greatest accomplishments in life and exaltation in the celestial kingdom, is the perpetual assignment to the membership of the Church. It must be remembered that the children of Latter-day Saint families must be taught the gospel also, and the responsibility of teaching them has been placed squarely on their parents. (See D & C 68:25-28.) Because of the close association with her children, the mother frequently carries the greater share of that joint responsibilitv. But if she and ined husband both understand and honor the Priesthood they will plan together to teach their children to "walk uprightly before the Lord." References Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18, 20, 27, 43, 115, 121, 132 Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith. TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 20. Wiptsor, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 14-15. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What prompted the boy Joseph Smith to seek the Lord in prayer — religious nature, inspiration, confusion? 2. What is necessary on the part of human beings to receive guidance from God? 3. Where and when was authorization given to organize the Church of Jesus Christ? 4. Why is it necessary to have a definite Church organization? 5- What is the true meaning of the brotherhood of man? Does this meaning apply to all members of the Church? FOLLOW THE SUN and visit THE HOLY LAND including EGYPT LEBANON JORDAN ISRAEL TURKEY GREECE ITALY Personally escorted all expense Tour via Jet leaves October Ist — Special 21 Day Excursion Rates. Extension to see more cities in Europe if desired. Call or Write Murdock Travel Inc.