[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 623 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Messages - "Wherefore, If Ye Believe Me." Christine | H. Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Messages - "Wherefore, If Ye Believe Me." Christine H. Robinson]

tinues on through eternity, and each one of us has a part in the long-time plan." It is well to see our earthly experience in this historic perspective and to be conscious of the fact that our stay here is relatively short but extremely significant. This is the time of testing and training and preparation for greater responsibilities. One way to look at it is to divide the possible life span of 100 years into five periods. It takes at least twenty years to become prepared to assume the responsibilities of parenthood. A second twenty is needed for accumulating — accumulating a family and possessions to enhance family living. Twenty years are then required for launching the offspring and helping them to stand on their own feet. It then takes twenty years for recovery, and another twenty for rediscovery.* It is easier to plan for the future if you see your life in units with definite responsibilities and assignments for each unit. Then it is well to make some predictions. Prayer and _ thoughtful meditation are important in this. Predict your own future, and don't be modest. We are here to get the most from our earthly experience and learn to be of service to others. Don't shortchange yourself. Be in tune for inspiration and make your plan reach the ultimate; then all you have to do is work to bring it about. Of course, you must learn to be flexible so that modifications can be made as unforeseen circum- *Discussion leader might prepare five charts and list some of the major responsibilities for each twenty-year period. 624 stances arise, and you must learn to be patient and remember that it takes a century to raise an oak. Winds and storms and dry seasons will come, but, as the old adage goes, "Good timbers do not grow in ease. The stronger wind, the stronger trees." Now examine your predictions or lifetime goals. As parents are you looking toward baptism and confirmation for each child? Are you planning for auxiliary and Priesthood training? Does your plan include missionary work and temple marriages? What are your educational objectives? What kind of home do you want? What about developing special skills and aptitudes? What special services do you want to render for your fellow men? In what way do you hope to leave the world better than you found it? You may smile at all this planning and say, "Why, if I do all this, I'm writing my own obituary!" And that is exactly mght; you are seeing the end from the beginning and writing your own obituary in everything that you do today and tomorrow and until the years are gone. You ask, "Does each individual make his own plan, or does the family as a whole make the plan?" Both are necessary. The husband and the wife work together in a way that will bring the greatest development for each individual as well as strengthen the bond of togetherness. Children share in planning as they become mature enough to participate, and, eventually, each will be able to help with the family plan and also be able to begin making his own plan. Learning to plan and to carry through the plan is a process of development and requires working together as a team. Anyone can learn to do this. During courtship the process begins by thinking in terms of "our" instead of "my," and gradually the direction for the first twenty years of living and sharing together becomes clear. From then on, following tested rules of "teamship" will facilitate progress. Each family can set up its own rules, but here are some suggestions: 1. No major decision will be made until all the facts are in and examined to see advantages and disadvantages of this action or that. LITERATURE @ LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Once a decision is made, the team will pull together with all its might to accomplish the objective. 3. When mistakes are made, there is no blaming one or the other, but there is a reappraisal of the whole situation, and a new direction is charted. 4. The role of each team member is determined on the basis of special interests, talents, and abilities as well as upon the needs for certain jobs to be done. Step-by-step training and disciplining to see work plans carried through to completion provide a sound approach to making the plans for the future come true. Note: Refer to "Values Become You," The Improvement Era, April 1963, for other suggestions on training. America's Literature Lesson 42 — Huck Finn's Initiation Into Truth Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and mae Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 617-651) For Third Meeting, November 1963 Objective: To understand and experience Huck's progression from innocence toward moral maturity. Iw 1876, the year The Adventures of Tom Sawyer was published, Mark Twain began writing what he intended to be its sequel. When the book finally appeared eight years later, in 1885, its identity in Twain's eyes had not changed, since the title page read, "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Tom Sawyer's Comrade)." But within itself the book had changed a great deal. In the first section of the novel, even though Huck is allowed to tell the story in the far more intimate and "real" first person "I," Samuel Langhorne Clemens is definitely the controlling author.

It is in the large, rich center section of the book when Huck is entirely free of Tom, the restraints of "civilization," and in-