[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 567 | Poem | Mother | Pauline Bell]
Prodigal Son's Mother Pauline Bell Oh, son, my son, you have come home again! Be glad, dear heart, it was not in vain. Now mother's eyes no longer run In tears for you, oh, son, my son. Let's celebrate and make amends, Rejoice, rejoice, call all our friends. Delicious things of earth now bring — The lost one has returned — let us sing! And you, my firstborn, faithful son, Continue now, as you have done. Oh, let all jealousy depart, depart. My son, you are the pure in heart. 567 Part III — President Wilford Woodruff ILFORD WoopRUFF, the fourth President of the Church, was born at Farmington, Connecticut, March 1, 1807. In his youth he assisted his father in farming and in the operation of a flour mill. When he was twentythree vears of age he joined with his brother in purchasing a 140 acre farm at Richland, New York. Two Latter-day Saint elders visited Richland in 1833 and_ held meetings. Wilford heard the gospel and was baptized. In 1834 he went to Kirtland, Ohio, where he met the Prophet Joseph Smith. He then joined Zion's Camp in the march to Missouri. In 1839 he was made a member of the quorum of 'Twelve Apostles and sent on a mission to England. In 1847, after the death of the Prophet Joseph, he followed Brigham Young and the saints in the march to Salt Lake Valley. Following the death of President Young, in August 1877, John 'Taylor became the President of the Church, and Wilford Woodruff the President of the Twelve Apostles. When John Taylor died in 1887, Wilford Woodruff succeeded him as President of the Church. He died in 568 Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian August 1898 at the age of ninetyone. Following are a few excerpts from his sermons: "The first time I ever saw Joseph Smith was-in April 1834. I met him in the streets of Kirtland [Ohio]. He invited me to his house. I stopped with him while preparing to go to Zion in Zion's camp. "On Sunday he called a priesthood meeting. They all gathered in a little cabin. There I first heard Joseph Smith speak publicly, also Hyrum Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Parley and Orson Pratt and William E. McLellin. The Prophet called upon the elders to bear testimony of the gospel of Christ and they — arose one after another and bore a short testimony (MS. 54:605). "It has been my faith and belief, from the time that I was made acquainted with the gospel, that no greater prophet than Joseph Smith ever lived on the face of the earth, save Jesus Christ. He was raised to stand at the head of this great dispensation — the greatest of all dispensations God has ever given to man (JD 21:317). "Joseph Smith was what he pro- fessed to be, a prophet of God, a seer and revelator. He laid the foundation of this church and kingdom, and lived long enough to deliver the keys of the kingdom to the elders of Israel, unto the twelve apostles. He spent the last winter of his life, some three or four months, with the quorum of the twelve, teaching them. It was not merely a few hours ministering to them the ordinances of the gospel, but he spent day after day, week after week and month after month, teaching them and a few others the things of the kingdom of God (Ibid., 13:164). "Those who have been acquainted with the Prophet Joseph, who laid the foundation of this church and kingdom, who was an instrument in the hand of God in bringing to light the gospel in this last dispensation, know well that every feeling of his soul, every sentiment of his mind and every act of his life, proved that he was determined to maintain the principle of truth, even to the sacrificing of his life. His soul swelled wide as eternity for the welfare of the human family.