[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 578 | Special Feature | He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part III President Wilford Woodruff | Preston Nibley]
He began entirely alone, as far as the influence of the children of men was conHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH President Wilford Woodruff cerned, upon the earth, to endeavor to establish a religion and order of things diverse from anything then existing among men, a religion that was unpopular and contrary to the feelings and views and traditions of the whole human family (Ibid., 2:192). "There is another instance that occurs to my mind. A certain man took a stand against Joseph and endeavored to bring persecution upon him. Joseph went to his God and laid the matter before him, asking to be delivered out of the hands and power of that wicked man. Joseph was a prophet, a seer, a revelator. He was acquainted with God; he knew the voice of the spirit when it spoke to him" (Ibid., 24:55-6). 569 Dorothy Clapp Robinson Tsu Hawortu wiped her hands carefully, folded the towel exactly, and hung it on a rod reserved for used towels. She rubbed lotion into her hands. "I hope," she said aloud, a habit she had acquired since being a widow, "that Mr. Ludlow won't think all I do is wash dishes — but I suppose even lawyers' wives get dishpan hands." That reminded her. She should get those papers and put them in her handbag. This was to be a full day. After delivering the papers to the lawyer's office, she and Mel, her friend, were having lunch at The Mode. Afterward they were driving up the canyon to spend the afternoon. This time of the year the gold and scarlet of the hills made driving a delight. 'Then they were driving home in the moonlight. 570 In her bedroom Tish opened a closet and chose a sweater and skirt and laid them on the bed beside the black handbag. "Why did I put that there?" she asked herself. "That is nothing to take to the hills. Pll take my knitting bag, and maybe while we are lounging on the grass I can finish Opal's sweater." She put away the black bag in a drawer and went to another drawer for her knitting bag. Her billfold was lying on the dresser. She tucked it under the nearly completed sweater. Now for the papers. She went to her desk and opened the upper right-hand drawer. She looked, then looked again. It wasn't possible. 'The packet of legal papers was not there. "T advise you take these papers home and read the fine print," Mr. Ludlow had said when he handed them to her. "Come back in a week, and we will get them signed and filed." "I may not understand a word but I will read every word, and I will bring them back good as new." "I'm sure you will. I have always found you to be a very careful, orderly person." Glowing from the compliment, Tish had been very careful where she placed the papers. It had taken her a week to read the fine print on the three pages, but each time after reading she had returned them to the left-hand slot of the nght-hand upper drawer. They must be there. Her reputation was at stake. "You are too fussy," her daughter Irene had once said to her. "Some of these days that habit is going to backfire. You get so upset when anything is changed." Okay, if that was what Irene wanted to call it, but the papers had to be mght here. She never misplaced things. But nothing she could see even faintly resembled legal papers. "Okay, if I must." She sat down and very patiently, very methodically Started going through the drawers of the desk. Disgusted and bewildered, she slammed the last one closed. "Now let me think." Then, "I might have put them in the paper fle. What was I doing the last time I read them?" F rom the top shelf of a big closet she lifted down an envelope file. Would she have put them under L THE MISSING PAPERS for lawyer, or under H for home? She was so bothered she wasn't thinking straight. Then the telephone rang. "Mother." It was Irene. "I just wanted to make sure you hadn't forgotten that Sharon plays at PTA tonight. You said you were going with me.... Mother — are you there?" "Yes-s. Tl be there," Tish answered, after catching her breath. But she had forgotten. She had this day planned to the last minute. She was having lunch with Mel, her friend, and they had planned a drive up the canyon. The colors were so beautiful this time of the year. They were to have their dinner at Idaho City and enjoy a leisurely trip home by moonlight. The dinner and the leisurely drive were out. PTA was at eight o'clock. And if she was to get a parking space anywhere near The Mode she had better hurry. Well, the papers couldn't hide much longer. 'THE papers were not under L, nor under H, nor under A, B, C, D. In fact, they were not in the file at all. She hadn't expected them to be. They were in the desk. She might not be a brain, but she was methodical, The telephone rang again. "Tish...." It was Helen, a friend of many years. "May I use that poem you wrote about the river road? It is so beautiful and just what I need to finish out a talk I am giving." "I would love letting you use it." "Oh, thanks a lot. I'll be right over after it." 


 "Don't do that." A wave of panic hit Tish. "I'm supposed to be leaving this very minute. [I'll slip it in an envelope and mail it to you. Or [ll take it to you tomorrow." "Goodness," 'Tish said after she had hung up. "Why did she pick this morning to ask for that?" Brrore she reached her desk the telephone rang. Ignore it, but Tish couldn't. It was the president of the garden club to which Tish belonged. "Tish, I have been thinking about that project for buying shrubs for that new nursing home...." "Beulah, mav I talk to you about that later? I am in a jam right now." "Of course. But since you are the treasurer I thought you should have some say-so about the projects we put on to raise money for the shrubs." "Beulah." "I know — and I am not going to keep you, but I have called a meeting for the officers for tonight, and naturally we must have you there." "I have decided I am not going to be treasurer." "How can you say such a thing? You were elected, weren't you, and you consented." "Yes, but." Tish glanced at her watch. "I might lose the money, or misplace it and." Beulah laughed. ""That is a laugh, when everyone knows how orderly and methodical you are. But I know you are in a hurry so I am not going to detain you. But I do want you to be at the meeting. 'There 572 are some other things to discuss, too. I hope we get a good representation of the membership to back us in this. Some of the members — but you are in a hurry. Ill talk to you later." Sighing with relief, Tish went back to her desk. What was it she was supposed to get? Oh, yes, the poem. From a larger drawer she brought out a legal-sized leather folder. She kept her current writings in it. She flipped through the contents — now don't tell — she glanced at her watch again. The telephone rang. It was Mel. "Do you know what time it is?" Mel asked. "We won't get a parking spot nor a table." "I know." 'Tish tried to hide her impatience. "I'll be there in a few minutes." Back at her desk she zipped up the case and returned it to a drawer. "I'll get back in time to put the poem in the mail. It is too late to go to Mr. Ludlow's office now." Slightly relieved, she dressed hurriedly and drove her car the six blocks to Mel's home. As Mel swung into the seat beside her she frowned at Tish. "Now what is wrong?" Tish demanded. "Nothing, of importance. You have earrings of two different sets. Maybe you meant it that way." Tish glanced in the mirror above the wheel. She yanked the earrings and put them in her sewing bag, then she fished around until she found lipstick. Uptown she did find a parking lot and they did find a table. "What will you have?" Startled, Tish looked up. Mel had given her order. 'The waitress was waiting. "Oh, I." She was not going to acknowledge she had not read the menu. "I'll take the same." "J didn't think you liked tuna loaf," Mel said when the waitress had gone. 'Tish was acting queer, she thought. Usually Tish talked incessantly. "I'm sorry, Tish, if you didn't want to come." "Of course I wanted to come." The injured note in Mel's voice irritated her a little. "It is just that I hate to tell you. I must be back early. I promised to go to PTA to hear Sharon play. I had forgotten this was the night." "We could put the trp off until tomorrow." "Tomorrow might be worse. I haven't any idea right now what I might have to do." If she had an idea, she wasn't going to tell Mel. After they had left town behind and were on the river road, Mel brought up the subject of the PTA. "Sometimes I think our girls expect too much of us. They want to be waited on." Tish remembered Mel had a car of her own sitting in her garage unused, but she never offered to drive it. "Well, I love to hear Sharon play. She is growing so fast and she looks like an angel." "That is what I said the other day to Elna. That girl of hers gets more Deautiful every day. She is always coming over to do some thoughtful thing for me, and when she leaves she always kisses me goodbye." THE MISSING PAPERS Tish immediately forgot her lost papers. She took up the challenge. Elna's girl was sweet to her grandmother, but so were Irene's girls sweet to their grandmother — most of the time, honesty demanded. "I wouldn't think of missing hearing Sharon play." Her voice had regained its usual spritely tone. "Why, her music teacher says...." "Oh, I know," Mel assured her quickly. "She does play beautifully, but you should see that little Bruce. He came to my place yesterday. I was making cookies. I gave him one, but he said 'want two.' I gave him another and then he said 'want four." She laughed as only a grandmother can over the brilliance of a grandchild. Tish laughed, but she could think of a hundred things her little Marc had said that showed more brilliance than wanting more cookies. Tish came home tired from the PTA meeting, but drowsy with satisfaction. Everyone had raved about Sharon's playing. Even Tish had been included in the aura of glory that hung over the performance. As Tish started to undress the joy was suddenly gone, like a slate being wiped clean with a wet cloth. Where were those papers? Why couldn't she put them from her mind? Because she was fussy, Irene would have said. 'Then she remembered the poem she was to mail. She knew it was in that leather case. No use going to bed until she found it. Tish went back to her desk and, laying the case on the desk, unzipped it. She started lifting the 


 papers one by one. There, fifth paper down, was the poem. Gently she laid it on the desk and put the case away. Finding an envelope she sealed the poem inside. Then she went to the garage, opened it, backed out her car, and drove across town. She stopped at Helen's home. There was no light inside so she slipped the envelope in the mail slot. No chance of forgetting it now. Tis was ready for bed when a sudden thought stopped her. The poem had been exactly where it was meant to be. Perhaps she had overlooked the papers in the same way. Back she went to her desk. One by one she went through the papers. One by one she replaced them. No legal envelope. "I am so bothered I can't think," she told herself as she sank wearily into bed. "PII sleep on it and maybe the answer will come when I awaken. Hugh used to say, 'Sleep on it and morning will bring the anSWET. Sleep was stubborn that night. Each time she felt herself drifting into sleep the lost papers popped into her mind. She could not go on like this. She must find them. In desperation, she turned her thoughts to Sharon's music. 'That proved a soothing sedative. Miorninc came and Tish awoke an hour earlier than her usual waking time. The first words that came to her mind were under the bed, but how could the papers have got under her bed? Leaning over so she 574 _ found nothing. Had a clear view, she searched the space. Nothing there, not even any visible lint. While washing her few breakfast dishes, 'Tish remembered she had another bed in a small back bedroom that was seldom used. It was utterly fantastic even to suppose the papers would be there, but it was the last place to look. She had searched every drawer, chest, and closet, even in the basement, and A slight tremor shook her. Under the bed in the back room were two pasteboard boxes tied neatly and securely. They had a long undisturbed look, but that first early morning impression had never failed her. She carried the boxes to the kitchen table and opened one. No legal papers on top. 'The box was filled to overflowing, however, with clippings from newspapers and magazines, wedding announcements, funeral programs, testimonial programs, thank-you notes, and a miscellany of items too numerous to even guess what they were. For the next three days Tish was so absorbed in reading and sorting the interesting items in the two boxes that. The loss of the legal papers Be uaat in the background of her mind. She found dates and facts she realized she needed for her Book of Remembrance. She spent hours on the telephone reading to friends and reminiscing, crying and laughing. FRENE, coming in unexpectedly the second day, suggested she put the box with all its contents in the trash can. "Why clutter your place with all this?" Tish answered evasively, but when Irene had gone she got out her car. She rode to the nearest dime store and bought three scrapbooks. Not expensive ones but ones that suited her purpose. A week later Tish closed the last finished scrapbook. What she had saved were just too precious to burn. If Irene chose to burn them after she was gone, Tish would have the pleasure of them until she did go; and she had no intention of going soon. Then came the morning Mr. Ludlow's secretary called. "Mrs. Haworth, Mr. Ludlow is leaving town for a month, and he is anxious to get your estate in order before he leaves. Could you bring those papers in today?" "Yes. Yes, I'll be there." 'Tish sat a moment before she replaced the receiver. 'The time had come. After listening to Jim Ludlow's praise all these years about her carefulness and orderliness, she would have to acknowledge that she was just an old woman who had lost her memory. And Jim and Hugh had been such good friends! It was almost like betraying Hugh. She thought of going through the desk again, but shook her head sadly. Those papers were not in any file, they were not in any drawer in the kitchen, in the bedrooms, or basement. Not even in the garage. Tish tried to straighten her shoulders, but did not quite make it. It was horrible enough to be forgetful THE MISSING PAPERS: without having to acknowledge it publicly. She hoped after she had acknowledged it, this cloud of dis-. Trust of herself and self-pity would leave her. She was an old woman. Without a memory, and the sooner she acknowledged it the sooner — well, anyway, the sooner something. Tish bathed, ran a comb through her hair, and put on the first dress her hands touched when she slid back the wardrobe door. She opened a drawer and took out her black handbag. She turned the night lo