[Vol50 | August 1963 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part III President Wilford Woodruff Preston Nibley]
568     He  Knew  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  — 
Part  III     President  Wilford  Woodruff     Preston  Nibley 
578     Part  of  the  Fragrance     Ann  G.  Hansen 
589     The  Second  Mile     Ruth  L.  Jones 
Fiction 
570     The  Missing  Papers     Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson 
580     Somebody  Cares     Betty  Lou  M.  Smith 
603     Kiss  of  the  Wind  —  Chapter  2     Rosa  Lee  Lloyd 
General  Features 
562     From  Near  and  Far 
577     Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
586     Editorial:    The  Power  of  Example     Louise  W .  Madsen 
588     Notes  to  the  Field: 
The  Relief  Society  Annual  General  Conference 
Visual  Aid  Packet  Available  for  1963-64  Literature  Lessons 
609     Notes  From  the  Field     Hulda  Parker 
640     Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Home  -  inside  and  out 
591  Peach-Stone  Jelly     Mary  L.  Allred 
591  Clear  Up  Sewing  Clutter     Shirley  Thulin 
592  Stretching  the  Food  Budget     Part  I  —  Dry  Milk     Marion  Bennion  and  Sadie  O.  Morris 
596  Versatile  Cottage  Cheese     Margaret  F.  Maxwell 
598     Felt  Bootees  for  Baby     Audrey  King 
601  Hints  for  a  Happy  Day     Janet  W.  Breeze 
602  Martha  B.   Anderson  Makes  Afghans  of  Original  Designs 
Lessons  for  November 
616     Theology  —  "Ye  Are  on  the  Lord's  Errand"     Roy  W.  Doxey 
622  Visiting  Teacher  Messages  -  "Wherefore,  If  Ye  Believe  Me.  .  .  ."  Christine  H.  Robinson 
623  Work   Meeting  —  Planning  for  the   Future     Virginia  F.  Cutler 
625     Literature  —  Huck  Finn's  Initiation  Into  Truth     Briant  S.  Jacobs 
632     Social  Science  —  The  Organization  of  the  Church     Ariel  S.  Ballif 
Poetry 
561     Seascape  —  Frontispiece     Margery  S.  Stewart 
Prodigal  Son's  Mother,  by  Pauline  Bell,  567;  Brilliance,  by  Catherine  B.  Bowles,  576:" 
The  Willow  Tree,  by  Alice  Morrey  Bailey,  585;  Terns,  by  Claire  Noall,  585;  The  Canyon 
Water  Front,  by  Anna  B.  Hart,  589;  Signs,  by  Ida  Elaine  James,  590;  Art  Exhibit,  by 
Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  637;  Sunset  Art,  by  Pearle  M.  Olsen,  638;  Street  Lights,  by  Vesta 
N.  Fairbairn,  638;  Summer,  by  Leora  Larsen,  638;  Friend,  by  Lottie  H.  Singley,  640. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Chnst  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1963  by 
the  Relief  Society  Generol  Board  Association.  Editorial  ond  Business  Office;  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah;  Phone  EMpire 
4-2511;  Subscriptions  2642;  Editorial  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c  a  copy,  payable  in  ad- 
vance The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscripti6n  expires.  No  back  numbers  con  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies 
will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  speciol  rate  of  postage  provided 
for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is 
enclosed      Rejected  manuscripts  will   be   retained   for   six  months   only      The  Magazine  is  not   responsible  for  unsolicited  monuscripts

SOCIETY 
A  Blessing  to  Young  Women 
Belva  Barlow 
Member,  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
Children  are  what  their  mothers  are. 
No  fondest  father's  fondest  care 
Can  fashion  so  the  infant  heart. 
— Walter  Savage  Landor 
I 
F  THE  above  quotation  is  true,  how  Appalachians    into    a    wild,    lonely 
necessary  it  is  for  us,  as  Relief  So-  country  and  lived  in  the  shadow  of 
ciety  sisters,  to  prepare  ourselves  for  death  from  cold,  hunger,  or  illness; 
this  noble  calling  of  motherhood,  later  yet,  for  their  faith,  they  made 
And  if,  as  is  stated,  the  first  five  or  the   perilous    trek   over   mountains 
six  years  are  the  most  significant  in  and  plains  to  the  Valley  of  the  Great 
determining    a    person's    character.  Salt  Lake,  leaving  loved  ones  buried 
then  proper  early  guidance  of  a  child  back  along  the  trail.    These  are  but 
is  of  extreme  importance.  President  a  few  examples  of  how  young  wom- 
Brigham   Young  stated   that   ''The  en  have  met  the  challenges  of  their 
mothers  are  the  moving  instruments  days.    We  can  and  must  meet  the 
in  the  hands  of  Providence  to  guide  challenge  of  our  day.    The  victor's 
the  destinies   of   nations."   And   in  crown  is  the  same;  only  the  setting 
this  hght  we  should   evaluate  our  changes. 
present  or  future  tasks  as  homemak-  Emerson  said,  ''Success  treads  on 
er,  wife,  and  mother.     Because  the  every  right  step."     Of  all  women, 
future   lies    in    the    hands    of    the  we  in  the  Church  should  take  the 
young,  it  is  to  the  young  women  of  ''right"  steps,  and  for  this  purpose 
the  Church  that  I  address  myself.  the   Relief  Society   was    organized. 
Young  women  have  always  played  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said  the 
a    significant    part    in    shaping   the  Relief    Society    would    be   a    great 
destinies  of  mankind;  young  women  organization  when  the  young  women 
made  the  long  and  arduous  voyage  of  the  Church  would  join  it. 
with    an    unknown    future    to    the  ,,.         ^  ^,                           ^u    •  ,.  n- 
<<XT         \\r     T  ^yy    •                               i     •  ^^  want  the  young  women,  the  mtelli- 
New    World      m    answer  to    their  gent  women,  women  of  faith,  of  courage 
husbands'  cries  for  freedom;  young  and  of  purity  to  be  associated  with  the 
women  endured  the  rigors  and  priva-  Relief  Societies  of  the  various  stakes  and 
tions    of    the    cold    New    England  "^^'^^  of  Zion.  We  want  them   to  take 
•    .             M-i     j-T,      T,        i.      f                •  hold  of  this  work  with  vigor,  with  mtel- 
wmters   with   the  barest  of   necessi-  ng^nce  and  unitedly,  for  the  building  up 
ties;  they  moved  westward  across  the  of  Zion  and  the  instruction  of  women 
564

RELIEF   SOCIETY 
A    BLESSING   TO    YOUNG    WOMEN 
in  their  duties  —  domestic  duties,  public 
duties,  and  every  duty  that  may  devolve 
upon  them  (Gospel  Doctrine,  1956  Edi- 
tion, page  387). 
I  think  it  can  as  truthfully  be  said 
that  the  young  women  of  the 
Church  will  be  great  when  they 
place  themselves  in  a  position  to  re- 
ceive the  blessings  available  through 
participation  in  the  Society. 
V\^HEN  a  group  of  sisters  went  to 
the  Prophet  in  1842  with  a  constitu- 
tion and  by-laws  for  the  purpose  of 
establishing  a  ladies'  society,  the 
Prophet  stated  that  the  constitution 
and  b^z-laws  were  the  best  he  had 
ever  seen.  He  then  continued,  ''But 
this  is  not  what  vou  want.  Tell  the 
sisters  their  offering  is  accepted  of 
the  Lord,  and  He  has  something  bet- 
ter for  them  than  a  written  constitu- 
tion ..."  (A  Centenary  of  Relief 
Society,  page  14). 
On  March  17,  1842,  the  Prophet 
organized  the  Relief  Society  'after 
a  pattern  of  the  priesthood."  In 
April  of  that  year,  the  Prophet  again 
met  with  the  sisters  and  on  that  oc- 
casion said: 
This  is  a  charitable  Society,  and  accord- 
ing to  your  natures;  it  is  natural  for 
females  to  have  feelings  of  charity  and 
benevolence.  You  are  now  placed  in  a 
situation  in  which  you  can  act  according 
to  those  sympathies  which  God  has  plant- 
ed in  your  bosom. 
If  you  live  up  to  these  principles,  how 
great  and  glorious  will  be  yolir  reward  in 
the  celestial  kingdom!  If  you  live  up  to 
your  privileges,  the  angels  cannot  be  re- 
strained from  being  your  associates  [DHC 
IV,  page  605). 
The  Prophet's  appraisal  of  wom- 
an's nature  strikes  a  responsive  chord 
in  each  of  us.  He  did  not  say  that 
charity  and  benevolence  are  the  na- 
ture of  married  women  only,  or  of 
elderly  women  only,  or  of  young 
women  only.  Such  characteristics 
apply  to  all  women  —  single  girls, 
brides,  mothers,  and  grandmothers. 
It  is  according  to  our  natures,  if  we 
cultivate  it,  to  have  compassion,  to 
love  truth,  to  appreciate  beauty,  to 
love  all  children,  and  to  be  kind, 
generous,  thoughtful,  and  honest. 
To  reach  perfection  in  these  quali- 
ties, I  readily  agree,  requires  intense 
effort  and  vigilance.  Though  it  is 
not  easy,  we  are  blessed  to  have  in- 
nate urgings  in  this  direction. 
The  journey  of  life  is  a  most 
exciting  one,  but  it  is  fraught  with 
many  difficulties.  Relief  Society  is 
an  important  vehicle,  organized  un- 
der divine  inspiration,  to  help  us 
make  this  journey  successfully.  For 
a  woman  to  embark  on  this  trip  of 
life  without  the  aid  of  Relief  Society 
can  be  likened  to  journeying  hun- 
dreds of  miles  on  foot  rather  than 
using  modern  means  of  transporta- 
tion. Such  a  person  might  weary 
and  never  reach  her  destination,  or, 
if  she  does,  she  might  be  much  the 
worse  for  wear.  And  yet  many 
young  women  today  are  embarking 
on  this  all-important  journey  of  life 
'on  foot." 
The  Relief  Society  was  founded 
to  help  us  shape  our  lives  and 
the  lives  of  our  loved  ones  while 
young;  it  was  established  to  make 
the  journey  back  to  our  Father  in 
heaven  pleasant  and  rewarding  and, 
in  large  measure,  to  assure  our  "ar- 
rival." President  Brigham  Young 
told  the  sisters  that 
.  .  .  these  societies  are  for  the  improve- 
ment of  our  manners,  our  dress,  our  habits 
and  our  methods  of  living.  .  .  .  Can  you 
565