[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 576 | Poem | Brilliance | Catherine B. Bowles]
Brilliance Catherine B. Bowles Do you watch the golden sunset Bringing shadows of the night Sink behind the far horizon As it slowly fades from sight? Fou look for beams returning jing brightness to the day? Do, it stirs the heartstrings feilh to light your way. Two University of Wisconsin psychologists, Dr. Harry F. Harlow and his wife Dr. Margaret K. Harlow have been experimenting with monkeys for years. Some they raised from early babyhood with the best of scientific care, but with no mothers; others had no companionship with other young monkeys. Both classes turned out to be socially aloof and to have unpleasant dispositions. Applying their findings to the rearing of human beings, the Doctors Harlow hope to help parents, through the avenues of generous mother-love and companionship for little ones with others of their own age, to develop happier, healthier children, and to reduce the incidence of mental illness. Dr. Cora BELL is a lecturer in international politics at the University of Sydney, Australia. For some time she was attached to the Institute of War and Peace Studies at Columbia University, on a Rockefeller scholarship. She is the author of a recent book on _ political thought, Negotiations From Strength, a Study in the Politics of Power. Mizs. JANET HILLSTROM STEFFEN, a Latter-day Saint now living in France and mother of four children, is the author of an essay "Freedom and Responsibility," which won a Freedom Foundation Award for 1963. "Freedom," Mrs. Steffen wrote, "teaches me that I may walk unwatched, my head held high, on the beautiful shore of life." Ml arcurerITE WILDENHAIN IS a master American potter, whose works are on display in many of America's major museums. She recently conducted a pottery seminar at the University of Utah. 'This is an art field in which many women are interested today. Mi arjorig STATHAM and EVELYN HASTINGS, affiliated with the American Museum of Natural History, prepared a number of the drawings of insects for The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Animal Life, a new set of books outstanding for the extensive research and numerous, almost incredible pictures.

577 art of the Fragrance Ann G. Hansen Vi other day a former neighbor of mine called me on the telephone. I was quite startled when the usual trend of conversation did not reach my ears. Instead, she said, "I want to tell you while you live how much I love you." "Oh, but I'm far from dead," I replied lightly. "But I do thank you for the kind words." She continued seriously. "I think we wait for people to die before we sav nice things about them; when we could make life's road so much easier with a compliment now and tiem, A lump filled my throat, and my glasses blurred with tears. I knew how night she was, and I resolved that I would begin saying sincere, nice things, too. Just the thought filled me with joy. Outside, the blackbirds were singing, and my heart sang with them, for I was happy, too. The thought remained with me. "Why do we wait until it is too late to express love and gratitude?" I asked myself. Julia had made a song in my heart, so why shouldn't I "breathe a song into the air," too? I thought of my faithful music teacher who taught me for fifty cents a lesson, now an old man shoved aside like a pair of last year's shoes. I could see the stooped shoulders of his frail body as he bent over the keys, and the delicate fingers, now knotted with rheumatism, that once brought forth rich tones from the mighty organ. Surely, it would make him happy to know that someone still remembered him 578 with gratitude and affection; so I decided to tell him how far reaching his teaching had been and the joy music had brought to me. Soon after I had made my resolution, I met his daughter in the library of our school. I introduced myself and asked if she would take a message to her father. "Please tell your father I love him." I began blinking and trying to clear the hoarseness from my voice. She sensed my sincerity and listened. "I was one of his first piano students when he began his career. Perhaps he will not even remember me, but I can never forget him. He taught me so thoroughly that I have never been afraid to raise my hand in any musical discussion. I knew what he said was right. Tell him that I have taught many students in return, that I have given the music he gave me to my Church, my school, and my community. Tell him that his name can never die." "Tll give him your beautiful message," the daughter replied sweetly, "and I know it will bring him joy. It is always a satisfaction to the soul, during the waiting years, to know that someone has loved you and appreciated what you have tried to do for him." Tue next day my mind went back to a class when I was a girl of fifteen. I thought of Miss Brown who had given a lesson so beautifully that I resolved then and there to become a teacher. I also resolved that someday I would make someone else feel that teaching is the most beautiful of all the arts, as she had me. In a college class I had once written Miss Brown a tribute entitled, "I Caught a Spark," but since it had remained in my drawer, unknown to her. When I wrote the composition I had hoped someone would read it at her funeral. "But what good would that do?" I asked myself. I salvaged the old theme, polished it in a place or two, and mailed it to my aged ideal. I could see her hands shaking with palsy as she tore open the letter and read back her words of inspiration after all these years. "Teaching is the most beautiful of all the arts, because it reaches human souls." Yes, Miss Brown, you touched my soul, and I am still trying to teach as you did. And then there was the old lady I always admired who had lived alone for so many years. Physically unable to enjoy community life, she made the most of what came her way and never complained. As I knocked at her door, she answered with a look of bewilderment. "Why would anyone be coming to see me?" She invited me in and we talked of her three children who had attended my school. 'There was a picture of her boy, who had met a tragic death, sitting on a shelf of her old organ. Time had dried her tears, and she could talk of him now without showing emotion. She accepted his passing, like everything else, as God's will in all things. A lovely patchwork quilt was on the frames in the process of being quilted. I commented on her abilPART OF THE FRAGRANCE ity, the fine stitches, the intricate blocks, and her blending of colors in the big star design. Her eyes welled with happiness. Then the smell of homemade bread baking in the old coal stove, began to pour in from the kitchen. My mouth watered at the thought of a fresh, thick slice, but I couldn't stay to get one, although she pressed me. I told the lady what a busy, useful life I thought she lived. She had no time for selfpity, she would not accept financial help. She was an independent, lovable person, filling every day with something worthwhile. We walked out into her flower garden, and she cut me a big bouquet of mock-orange blossoms and pink peonies. There was the fragrance of flowers and summer in the air, and the fragrance of a great soul passed from hers into mine. Sometime later, I met my friend Julia who had called me on the telephone and started me in this love-expressing pursuit. I told her how far reaching the message of her call had been, and asked her what had given her the idea to deviate from the accepted form that nice things can be said only at funerals. She told me that one day she picked up an old copy of a magazine, and as it fell open, she saw a Chinese proverb underlined. It read: "Part of the fragrance is left in the hand that bestows the flowers." She said she thought of how many people to whom she owed words of gratitude and began giving them while there was time. In_ expressing thanks and love, she had found fragrance left in her hand, as I had found it in mine.