[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 609 | General Feature | Literature Lessons | ]
A picture kit of carefully planned visual aids for the 1963-64 literature lessons may be obtained from the Department of Audio-Visual Communication, Brigham Young a Provo, Utah, price $3.55 (not obtainable from Relief Society General oard ). The packet contains the following materials: 1. Portraits of Mark Twain, Emily Dickinson, William Dean Howells, Robert Frost, Willa Cather, Sinclair Lewis, and Carl Sandburg. 2. Illustration of Huckleberry Finn and Nigger Jim on their raft on the Mississippi River, for use with the lesson on Huckleberry Finn. 3. Seven small portraits for the literature map. 588 The Second C ompassionaTE service has been in the past, and should ever be one of the most important parts of Relief Society. Let us keep in mind that the great need in the world today is for kindness — in our thoughts, our words, our deeds. Shall we not remember that this was the purpose for which Relief Society was first organized? New sisters —- as they join — should be given an understanding of the privilege and duty they have, as members of Relief Society, to assist in giving compassionate service. Modern hospital and medical facilities, with labor-saving devices in the homes, have obviated the need for some of the actual bedside care and housework formerly given. However, we still have the responsibility of rendering physical, spiritual, and moral uplift to those in distress. The Prophet Joseph Smith asked, '""Who are better qualified to administer than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion? No one," he answered (DHC IV, page 607). How much joy has come to sisters in the past, through visits to the sick, the troubled, the lonely! Cherished friendships have been made in these rewarding experiences. Many times such a person has gone into homes for the purpose of giving comfort and cheer or to render service, only to come away knowing that she has received the greater blessing by the examples of faith and courage she has witnessed. She knows the truth of King Benjamin's words, "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). She learns for herself that the way of "the second mile" is always in the direction of our Heavenly Father, and when we are willing to go this "second mile" with a brother or sister, we are led, inevitably, closer to him. "Let kindness, charity, and love crown your works henceforward," was the counsel of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. The Canyon Water Front Anna B., Hart I left a world of commonplace, A busy thoroughfare and race; I came up to this canyon water front Not with the motive to relax and fish and hunt, But to refresh my thirsty soul With music of this hidden stream To sanctify my urgent dream.