[Vol50 | August 1963 | Page 562 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

I really enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, and it comes in very handy in our missionary work. Thanks very much for your attention and help.
—Elder Michael C. Kenyon
Quilmes, Argentina

We enjoy our Magazine so very much. It is so beautiful with the color, the wonderful articles and stories, and the pictures in the Notes From the Field, together with the messages from the General Authorities of the Church and the General Board of Relief Society.
—Charlotte M. Burleigh
President
Woodruff Stake Relief Society
Evanston, Wyoming

I surely enjoyed "Let's Have a Bake Party" in the March issue of the Magazine (by Mary S. Kemp); also, I enjoyed "Sewing Success" by Helen Lach, as I do a lot of sewing. "Ribbons and Roses" (page 204) was used for a project in our work meeting. I copied that whole issue. It was so colorful and interesting.
—Mrs. Violet B. Coletti
Alexandria, Virginia

I enjoy very much the recipes and the sewing tips, but it would be difficult to single out any one feature of the Magazine as being best.
—Breta Hiate
Salem, Oregon

The Relief Society Magazine is one of our good missionary tools. By leaving the Magazine with one of our contacts, or with a friend who is ill, and pointing out two or three special articles in the Magazine that will interest her, she becomes interested and welcomes us when we come back.
—Elder and Sister Stanley Adams
Sydney, Nova Scotia
Canada

Since coming to Australia on a mission, I have heard many wonderful comments from members and nonmembers in regard to The Relief Society Magazine. I had a note from a nonmember investigator which said, "I was so interested I had to read it through before turning off the lights. It is a good, well-balanced publication." At a meeting in Sydney, a little elderly lady said she had been a subscriber for thirty years, and never once had a Magazine been late or gone astray. We appreciate your thoughtfulness in sending the publication to us as a proselyting tool.
—Vivian Coombs
President
Australian Mission
Relief Society

So many of the features in the Magazine are outstanding, and many bring back poignant memories of my girlhood, but the one I like especially is the feature page "From Near and Far." After I have looked at the beautiful cover, I have to admire the frontispiece, then I eagerly read the messages from the other sisters — almost like a personal visit with the many members of the world-wide sisterhood.
—Elda L. Haycock
Hagerman, Idaho

I wish to thank you for the most inspirational Magazine. I love and appreciate it and enjoy reading the stories and lessons each month. In fact, I wait each month for the new Magazine to come. As a young girl, I started reading the stories in my mother's Magazine, and since then I have found it hard to leave the copies alone. I am impressed with each visiting teacher message. Each one is just what I need at the time. It is a joy to present such wonderful lessons and messages. The Magazine is giving me a rich and wonderful education and helps to build my testimony.
—Mrs. Charlotte Elliott
Livermore, California

562
