General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. On Wednesday and Thursday, October 6 and 7, the semiannual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City. The sessions on Wednesday, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., were held in the Assembly room of the Bishop's building, and were devoted to stake officers meetings;  while on Thursday, at the same hours, general sessions were held in the Salt Lake Assembly hall. On Wednesday noon, a cafeteria Itincheon was served to the delegates in attendance, and on Thursday evening a reception was held for stake officers at the Relief Society headquarters in the Bishop's building. In the receiving line at the reception were the general board members, who greeted the guests warmly and cordially. The board was assisted by the following Relief Society stake presidents: Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, Granite stake;  Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, Pioneer stake;  Mrs. Elsie B. Alder, Ensign stake;  Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Salt Lake stake;  Mrs. Lottie P. Baxter, Liberty stake;  Mrs. Amanda Bagley, Cottonwood stake, and Mrs. Hilda H. Larsen, Jordan stake. The Farley Trio furnished music during the receiving hours. Later, a musicale was given under the supervision of Miss Romania Hyde, with the following program: Soprano solo, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward;  violin solo. Miss Hyde, and cello solo by Lois Cannon, accompanied by Miss Wright. The music for the various sessions was in charge of the Relief Society chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. wh« was assisted by Miss Edna Coray, organist. Special features were,: a violin solo by Professor Willard Weihe, accompanied by Professor John J. McClelland;  trio from "The Vision," by Mesdames Agnes Olsen Thomas, Sarah Wood, and Jennie Pedersen;  selection, "Life's Mirror," composed by Miss Edna Coray, and sung by a chorus of selected voices. The Relict Society choir gave special numbers in beautiful voice, which were well received. The organ music by Miss Coray at the opening and closing of the meetings, was especially artistic and much appreciated. The attendance was as follows: General board members, 21;  stake presidents, 54;  counselors, 63;  secretaries, 24;  treasurers, 14;  choristers, 12;  organists, 4;  class supervisors, 10;  stake board members, 185;  visitors, 23;  total, 410. This report GENERAL CONFERENCE 701 includes four mission presidents, representative of four missions, as follows: California mission, President Louisa W. Jones. Central States mission, President Charlotte T. Bennion;  Northern States mission, President Emily W. Smith, Western States mission, President Florence Knight. Attendance at general sessions in the Salt Lake Assembly hall wai 1,590 at the morning session, and 2,300 at the afternoon session. The ushers for the conference, furnished by Granite stake, were on time promptly and gave quiet and efficient service. GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETING. Morning Session. In her opening address, President Emmeline B. Wells greeted very heartily and cordially the officers in attendance. She expressed the appreciation that her life had been preserved up to the present time. She called attention to the fact that this the most wonderful of all ages, and therefore there is great opportunity for service. She exhorted the Relief Society women to labor diligently in the Lord's vineyard, and live such lives that they may be prepared to meet their Maker. The secretary, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, reported that the new Relief Society record books will be ready for distribution in December, and will be delivered to the stakes in time for use on January 1. There will be a record book for the stake work, as well as one forward work. It has been decided to do away with the secretaries and treasurers book and to have the work recorded in the record book. The secretary will be the bookkeeper of the organization, and will therefore have charge of the record book. She will be assisted by the treasurer, who will also be custodian of all Relief Society funds. Detailed instructions with regard to record keeping will be found in the front cover of record books. Both stake and ward record books will be mailed directly to the stake presidents, with the request that the ward books be distributed at once to the wards. Mrs. Lyman stated that report forms would be mailed out to the stakes the last of November, and requested that stake secretaries see that these are in the hands of ward secretaries by the middle of December, so that reports may be compiled and forwarded back to the stakes promptly. The following organizations and organizations were reported, all of which have taken place since the April conference: 
 Organizations: On June 8, 1920, Cache stake was divided. A portion of it retains the name of Cache stake, and the other portion is known as Logan stake. Mrs. Ellen Barber was appointed president of the Logan stake, and Mrs. Kinnie B. Caine president of the Cache stake. Mrs. Lucy S. Cardon, who has given long and faithful service as president of the Cache stake, was honorably released. On June 28, Duchesne stake was divided into the Duchesne and Roosevelt stakes. Mrs. Clara Hansen, who had been president of the Duchesne stake, was named as president of the Roosevelt stake, and Mrs. Evelyn Moffitt was appointed president of the Duchesne stake. The Oneida stake was divided on June 8. Mrs. Nellie P. Head, former president of Oneida stake, was retained as president of that portion of the stake to retain the same name. Mrs. Verona G. Nash was appointed president of that portion of the stake to be known as the Franklin stake. The Panguitch stake was divided on August 29 into the Panguitch and Garfield stakes. Mrs. Sarah E. Cameron was retained as president of the Panguitch stake and Mrs. Sarah L. Larson was appointed president of the Garfield stake. Reorganizations: Alberta stake was reorganized August 8. Mrs. Lydia J. Brown was honorably released, and Mrs. Annie D. Snow appointed president. On August 22, Pocatello stake was reorganized. Mrs. Emily Gladwin was released as president, and Mrs. Martha E. Pugmire appointed as the new president. Mrs. Sophia G. Luke was honorably released as president of Wasatch stake on July 28, and Mrs. Mima Broadbent sustained as the new president. On September 5, Mrs. Artimissia Seegmiller was released as president of Kanab stake, and Mrs. Susie L. Robinson appointed as president. Mrs. Lucina S. Smith has resigned as president of Burley stake, and Mrs. Lena N. Taylor has been appointed to succeed Mrs. Smith as president. Mrs. Emily C. Brooks has been honorably released as president of St. George stake, and Mrs. Josephine Miles sustained as the president. The president of Parowan stake, Mrs. Julia Lyman, has been released and Mary M. Marsden has been appointed to succeed her as president. Mrs. Susa Young Gates editor of the "Relief Society Magazine," reported for the editorial department. She expressed her gratitude for the appreciation with which the "Magazine" is received. GENERAL CONFERENCE 703 Mrs. Hyde, business manager of the "Magazine," expressed appreciation for the work of stake and ward agents, and gave detailed instructions with regard to the business connected with their labors. She asked each stake representative to call at the office for blanks and receipt books, to be used for next year's subscriptions. Due to the raise in price of all materials and labor, Mrs. Hyde stated that it may be necessary to raise the price of the "Magazine" for 1921, In fact, she felt that this would almost be necessary. Definite word with regard to this would be sent out later. Reports concerning the work of the Relief Society, with problems and suggestions, were made as follows: California mission, President Louisa W. Jones. Central States mission. President Charlotte T. Bennion. Western States mission, President Florence Knight. Northern States mission, President Emily W. Smith. Blackfoot stake. President Signe A. Davis. North Davis stake, President Emily Brough. Mrs. Jones reported twenty-seven organizations in the California mission, with two more to be organized immediately. The Relief Society has proved a great help to the leaders, who frequently call upon the organization for assistance. The women are interested in their work and are very energetic in the performance of their labors. In each branch there is a representative for genealogical work, whose duty it is to visit homes in the interest of genealogy and family records. The lesson work is being taken up just as it is in Utah with a fair degree of success. In the Central States there are sixteen organizations which are very scattered. In visiting these branches one must travel over 300 miles. The women in the Central States appreciate very much the help and inspiration which comes to them through the "Magazine." They are following, as nearly as possible, the lesson work, and are attending to their charity work. Mrs. S. O. Bennion suggests that the mothers of daughters who are to be sent on missions should help in every way to prepare these girls to give the best service possible in the missionary field. Relief Society word is growing in the western states. Mrs. John Knight stated that the organizations are made up largely of young married people who are vigorous and interested in all phases of the work. Mrs. Winslow Farr Smith reported that an effort is being made in the Northern States to follow up Relief Society work exactly as it is done at home, and outlined in the "Magazine." Mrs. Smith expressed great appreciation for the work of 
 the Relief Society, and regretted that the young women in the Church are not better informed with regard to it. She suggested that the members make it a point to acquaint the young women of the Church with the fine work and high ideals for service which the Relief Society has maintained throughout. Mrs. Davis reported the Blackfoot stake as active and prosperous. The main problem is small attendance. This she attributed to the scattered condition of the members. The work of the teachers has been improved since definite subjects have been out lined and assigned to them for discussion in the homes. One of the subjects recently discussed was "Temple Records." This stake has raised and donated to the stake tabernacle $1,251 since the first of the year, and during this period this has not seemed to interfere in any way with the charity work to be done. Each board member visits one ward each month, and once a month board meetings are held. Miss Brough reported loyal workers in the North Davis stake. Board meetings are held twice a month with a union meeting once a month. The work of the stake temple committee during the last year was beneficial, indeed. The greatest help and inspiration in the Relief Society is the "Magazine," with the splendid lessons which seem to be so well fitted for Relief Society workers. Mrs. Susa Young Gates spoke on the "Word of Wisdom." She stated that in the old days the people were inclined to keep the word of wisdom, both from desire to profit by its blessings, and to be obedient to the counsels of the authorities of the Church;  but today many people, particularly the young people, must be appealed to from a scientific viewpoint. Scientists and business men throughout the country are pointing out the evils of the tobacco habit, so that there is no dearth of good information and literature which treat this subject very scientifically. Mrs. Gates regretted the fact that many parents are careless with respect to the keeping of the word of wisdom themselves, and felt that a mother who desires her boy to refrain from smoking should set him a good example by refraining from the use of tea or coffee. Parents should be a pattern to the boys and girls. One who breaks the word of wisdom is not fitted to ask others to observe this teaching. The speaker called attention to the fact that President Grant, in a recent joint meeting of the general boards, stated that if officers in the Church cannot keep the Word of Wisdom, they should resign from their positions. GENERAL CONFERENCE 705' Mrs. Gates read from section 88, of the Doctrine and Covenants, the following verses: 83-105, and from 117-127;  also section 79. The speaker closed by praying earnestly that her hearers would live exemplary and righteous lives themselves, and make every effort to help others to do the same. Afternoon Session. Professor Arthur L. Beeley, secretary of the social advisory committee of the Church, spoke on the subject of leadership. He pointed out the responsibility of Church officers as leaders in Israel, and asked them to make an effort to understand conditions as they actually are, and determine to improve them wherever possible. By a series of charts, Professor Beeley showed, among other things, the decline in temple marriages, also decline in Priesthood interests and activities, and decrease in attendance in the auxiliary organizations. Professor Beeley deplored the fact that many young people are becoming careless with regard to Church work. As a remedy for this, he suggested that the leadership throughout our organizations be improved and made as efficient as possible. The world's greatest leaders have been men and women who have usually worked harder than others, studied more diligently, and have striven harder to overcome personal handicaps and failings. The highest type of leadership is religious leadership, and in our Church, practically everybody has a chance, through some organization or other, to develop qualities of leadership and to be of actual service to others. With the advantages of the gospel and with our great opportunity for development, there is no reason why our auxiliary workers may not develop a leadership that will hold our groups together, and through and with them, carry on the work which our Father intended us to do Stake reports were as follows: Boise stake, President Bessie G. Hale. Blaine stake. President Laura J. Adamson. Summit stake. President Florence Crittenden. The Boise stake, which is a little more than one year old, covers a broad area, including five counties. The nearest ward to the headquarters in Boise is twenty miles, and the farthest is ninety. There are eight branches in the stake, and although the board consists of only ten members, each association is visited regularly once a month. During the past year 7,7 miles have been covered in these visits, at an expense of $222.94. Due to the great distance, no union RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE meetings are held. In their place conventions are held twice a year. Although the L. D. S. women are very much in the minority in the various communities in this stake, their influence has already been felt along the lines of social betterment, civil improvement, and charity work. The members have assisted in closing and cleaning up hotels and restaurants with quarantine laws, public health, and sanitation. The president has already been asked to assist the Associated Charities, of Boise, in making a survey of the health conditions of a given school district. In the interest of the Word of Wisdom, Relief Society women pledged themselves each to persuade one person to give up the tobacco habit. As a result of this effort, nineteen men and boys have been reformed. Three temple campaigns have been made with the result that 573 names have been sent to the temple, and during the present conference, between ninety and one hundred people are expected to give service in the temple. An effort is being made to have one hundred per cent "Magazine" subscription in their associations. This point has already been reached in three of the societies Mrs. Adamson gave an idea of their scattered condition by stating that the nearest ward to the Relief Society headquarters is sixty miles and the farthest ninety. Since May the stake board has traveled 9,926 miles, averaging three visits to each ward. There are eleven members on the board, and at the last convention held, nine were present. District conventions are held in the three divisions in the place of union meetings. During the last year, ten out of the even board members have given birth to babies. Board meetings are held weekly where the lessons are discussed end board members prepared to give any of the required lessons wherever they are visiting. In each ward there are the following committees: Genealogical, temple and burial, enlistment, health, charity work. The genealogical department is co-operating with the Priesthood in the interest of genealogy and temple work. In each ward a member of the Relief Society and a member of the Priesthood work hand in band in the interest of this work. Up to date, 625 family records have been placed in L. D. S. homes. In the temple excursion that was made recently, among the 350 who participated, were many young married people who had not as yet entered this sacred edifice. In cooperation with the state educational agencies, a great deal of social work has been done in connection with the charity department. After a survey in the Carey ward, a baby clinic was recently held, and forty-one children were operated on GENERAL CONFERENCE 707 for defects of nose and throat. This, Mrs. Adamson considered, is one of the best pieces of preventive work that has been done in her stake. The sewing meeting is very successful. In one ward it is estimated that under the direction of a milliner, $83 was saved on summer hats. Mrs. Crittenden reported sixteen organizations in the Summit stake, all of which are following in every detail, the work as planned by the general board. The "Magazine" is greatly appreciated by the women of this stake, as well as by their husbands and sons. The work meetings are the best attended of any of the meetings. Here quilts and all sorts of clothing have been made, including millinery. In the way of raising funds, short dramas, concerts, and contests have been given. These have proved very profitable from an artistic standpoint, as well as a financial one. Mrs. Crittenden reported a very successful stake institute, which was held in the interest of social work and teacher training. All of the agencies in the community co-operated to make this convention a success. Buildings and public halls were given freely and the county superintendent and medical men and community workers generally supported the institute in every way possible. The president of the stake was in attendance daily and many bishops and counselors. Following the institute, a three-day clinic was held under the supervision of the Relief Society. Through co-operation with the state board of health and the Red Cross nurse, thirty cases were taken care of, some of which were charity cases. Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams conducted a discussion of Relief Society problems. She complimented the stakes and missions on the splendid reports given, and felt that the success they had attained was due largely to the efficient leadership in these various localities. Mrs. Williams reported the progress made by the Relief Society Nurse School. She said that for several years it had been the dream of the Relief Society to have our school incorporated in the L. D. S. hospital, which was done last August when the hospital, for the first tribe, admitted the Relief Society nurses for a one-year course in real, practical, nursing. As there had been some difficulty in the past in getting students interested in the nurse course as it has been given, the general board was a little in doubt as to how the new course would be received and supported. For several years the class has numbered twenty or less than twenty. After the Church authorities had decided that the students could be entered at the hospital, the general board wondered if it would be possible to get the required number of students, 
 and even after the circulars were sent out, there was some doubt. The response, however, was more than anybody had dreamed of. Instead of receiving in the neighborhood of twenty applicants, one hundred and ten requests for admission were registered at the office. The board was almost overwhelmed with this response, and the great task now was to select from the one hundred and ten, seventeen girls, the number the hospital finally decided was the limit it could accommodate. The committee made an effort to select students from the wards off the railroads, or where there were few or no nurses and doctors. There were, of course, many disappointments, but the committee could only use the best judgment they had in the matter. This response proved to the general board that Relief Society women were quick to recognize and make the most of real opportunity when presented to them. The speaker mentioned the attendance at stake conference or conventions. She stated that since an official convention or conference is held but once a year in each stake, it is the duty of every stake and ward officer to be in attendance. In one stake this year out of fourteen wards, only fourteen officers were present, averaging one officer from each ward. It is felt that by careful planning beforehand that stake and ward officers could arrange their affairs so that they might be able once a year, to attend every meeting of the conference or the convention. Attention was called to the fact that stake presidents and stake officers should be in such close touch with Relief Society problems that they are able, if necessary, to answer all questions that come up in the wards. In fact, it is the duty of stake presents to be authority on Relief Society problems. From the number of letters received and inquiries which have been made at the general office during the last year, it is evident that in many instances the wards are not receiving sufficient help from the stake officers. When stake and ward presidents leave their posts of duty for any length of time, they should either resign their positions or make definite arrangements to have the work carried on during their absence. In many instances, important letters have been left unopened for weeks because a stake president is away from home, and has authorized no one to open the mail or to take care of the stake business. The work of the Relief Society is more important than the personal affairs of any one woman and should receive all the attention that is necessary for its growth and development. In referring to the teachers' work, Mrs. Williams stated that there are a few instances where head teachers are still GENERAL CONFERENCE 709 being used. Many years ago it was definitely decided to discontinue the head teacher. This was being recommended as far back as the days of Eliza R. Snow, and has been made a positive  during the administration of President Emmet Wells. It is felt that the Relief Society president herself should be in the closest possible touch with the family work, and while she needs assistance in carrying forward this work, it is not deemed advisable that there should be a head teacher to preside over the teacher's work. Mrs. Williams urged the drafting of young women for Relief Society;  work. In view of the fact that our young women have had good educational opportunities, they may be especially helpful in the technical work of the Relief Society, such as the work of the secretary, treasurer, class teachers, and special family visiting, under the supervision of the president. There is work for women of all ages in the organization, and as it is an understood fact that we could not get along without the help of the older sisters, so we should feel that we need the help and inspiration of the young women of the community. The teacher-training work was mentioned. It was explained that the plan for teacher-training work includes all of the auxiliary organizations. It is expected that this work will be organized in each ward under the bishops. The first session will be a combined meeting of teachers and officers from all of the auxiliary organizations, when a lesson in pedagogy, ox how to teach, will be discussed. At the second meeting, after the opening exercises, the class will be divided into auxiliary groups for special work. In the Relief Society, this second meeting will be in the nature of a ward officers' meeting. The third meeting in the month will be like the first, a conjoint meeting of the auxiliaries, when a second -lesson on how to teach will be given. The fourth meeting will be like the second, a division into auxiliary groups. This meeting will be in the nature of a preparation meeting. In the Relief Society, it has been decided that this fourth meeting may be held as a separate ward preparation meeting, as will be done in the other auxiliaries, or it may be taken into the regular union meeting. Detailed instructions in pamphlet form with regard to this work will be mailed out to all ward workers published by the correlation committee of the Church. Mrs. . Williams read the following question handed in during the meeting: "When a stake officer is visiting some other ward organization than her own. should she be marked present in her own ward?" In answer Mrs. Williams stated that where a stake officer is out visiting and is absent from 
 her own ward, she should not, under any circumstances, be marked present on her ward roll. She may be marked excused, but unless she is actually present, she should not be marked, so. Counsellor Julina L. Smith was delighted with the reports that had been made, and felt that the blessings of the Lord were upon