MAMA'S BOOKSHELF Then there is a New Testament in large print standing next to Brother Bennion's Teachings, and four other teference books for the study of the New Testament. I have a volume of Washington Irving, four of the Leather Stocking Tales, and The American Democrat by Cooper, The Portable Emerson and the Great Masterpiece edition of Hawthorne, which includes The Scarlet Letter, The House of the Seven Gables and selected stories from T'wiceTold Tales. For reference, I have Brooks, The Flowering of New England, Hart and Gohdes America's Literature, and Warfel, Gabriel, and Williams, The American Mind. My s are on the shelf, too, always in place and ready to my hand. It is understood that the shelf, itself, is strictly "hands off." There is room for more books on the shelf, and there are stacks of books all over the house that need shelf space; but odd volumes must not clutter up this shelf. As for the books— anyone who will put them back in place may borrow them and enjoy them. In a locality where the idea of Mama's Bookshelf was introduced, it has been noted that already this small beginning has been felt in the homes. Husbands are taking an interest and listening to excerpts from the books their wives are reading. Children are hearing adult conversation about ideas rather than personalities and troublesome problems. One sister reported that her grandchildren had added _ books related to the course in American literature to her shelf. On my own shelf the books are not beautifully bound as my 373 mother's were. Many of them are paper-back, others are secondhand or cheap editions. But they are wonderful books, books that bring me the association with great men. The books are mine and I love them. But I am not selfish about them. Books are to be enjoyed, shared, lived with. LL of us hunger for conversation with the well-informed, the deeply spiritual, the witty, the prophetic. To many of us wide association in our daily lives is not possible. Any mother of little children must live a large part of her life in the world of childhood. This is an opportunity and she appreciates it; but it does not take the place of being intellectually stimulated, emotionally stirred, moved to depths of thought and contemplation that come from living in a truly adult world. Mama's Bookshelf, especially if it is shared with husband and with children as they grow older, will help to satisfy this hunger. Let Mama's Bookshelf take a place in your home. 'Try reading aloud to even your tiny children the things that you, yourself, love. Now that my mother has died, I have her bookshelf. All of the volumes are duplicates of my own wellstudied texts; but I wouldn't part with one of them. As I look at them a warm feeling comes over me, and I see myself, a little girl with paper-curled hair, standing on tiptoe to take Longfellow from the shelf. I run my hand over the spray of flowers painted on the soft leather cover, then, oh, so carefully I turn to the story of Hiawatha and settle myself at my mother's knee.