COOK YOUR OWN BARBECUE 375 BAKED BEANS 2 c. Navy beans % Ib. Fat pork or bacon 4 c. Water Ya ¢. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Molasses Wash and sort beans, cover with water, and soak over night. Cook slowly until tender. Drain, reserving liquid. Place beans and pork in alternate layers in beanpot. Add bean liquid and remaining ingredients. Cover and bake in slow oven. Add more liquid if necessary. One c. Tomato juice may be used for part of liquid. (To keep beans hot for canyon party, wrap bean pot in several layers of newspaper.) Easy Ratsin CAKE % c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Nutmeg Y% c. Shortening 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 C. Raisins 2 c. Whole-wheat flour 1% c. Water | 1 tsp. Soda tsp. Baking powder _ % tsp. Salt Sift flour, soda, and baking powder together. Combine remaining ingredients in saucepan and boil together 5 minutes. Cool. Add dry ingredients and mix thoroughly. Pour into square pan which has been lined with waxed paper and greased. Bake 45 to 60 minutes at 350° F. CEREAL FLAKE COOKIES (Use any kind of ready-to-eat flakes—corn, wheat, bran, etc.) 1 c. Flour % ¢. Sugar Y, tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Vanilla % tsp. Salt 1 egg % c. Butter or margarine 3 c. Cereal flakes Measure and sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. Thoroughly cream shortening and sugar, add egg and vanilla, and beat well. Stir in sifted dry ingredients and 1 cup cereal flakes. Drop teaspoons of dough into remaining flakes, rolling to coat, place on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 375° F. Until lightly browned (about 10 minutes). Makes about 40 two-inch cookies. LEMONADE 3 C. Sugar-syrup 10 c. Water or 2 c. Lemon juice 2 c. Water and 2 trays ice cubes Prepare sugar-syrup ahead of time by combining equal parts of sugar and water in a saucepan and heating until sugar is dissolved. Cool before using. Mix lemonade in a punch bowl for back-yard barbecue. For canyon party, use a large thermos jug. (For pink lemonade, add 1 cup red fruit juice or punch.) Now Ys the Sime Leona Fetzer Wintch OU may smile when I tell you that though I have three teen-agers and an eight-yearold still at home, I am preparing for old age now. The highest achievement is to help my children become fine individuals, but the "letting go" process is already underway. One by one, they will soon leave home to go away to school.