Now is the time to take the responsibility we all have, to look the future in the face and prepare for it. If we do so early, we will have a better chance of finding new and wonderful abilities before the declining years are here. 'To begin too many things willy-nilly would bring mental bankruptcy with all its frustrations. So we should try now to explore a few genuine interests that hold possibilities of success. 'These interests should be meaningful, associated with previous experiences | or work we have always done. Let me tell you about a few projects I would like to develop when there is time. You will never be satisfied until similar work you have had in mind is accomplished. There is real excitement in anticipating painting in oils. But, since I am not a Grandma Moses, I shall first have to send up a trial balloon in the form of water colors and sketching. I read the book How to Sketch and began making impressions on the drawing pad. For years | have wanted to make wood prints and, in preparation for more leisurely hours, I made several linoleum blocks which were used to print our Christmas cards. 'To Page 376 make a wood block at seventy with no previous experience would be discouraging and might be so unsuccessful that the project would likely be abandoned forever. While putting breakfast on the table this morning, I caught a glimpse of a blue jay. There was no time to see if it had a white petticoat, or just where it fit into its family. But it made me anxious to read our bird-watching book, use field glasses to observe these wonderful creatures, and take close-up pictures, using a telephoto lens. Pictures — this is another wonderful adventure in skill. Ll never be professional but, with a little equipment and much patience, I can come a little close. 'The recording of intriguing moments of family life and familiar scenes provides many pleasures of reflection, but it must be started now. Another unfulfilled desire is to sculpture, so, with just my fingers and some clay, I molded a bowl, some vases, a family crest, and some birds. When the declining years percolate up to me with a gift of time, I would like to sculpture my husband's fine head now that successful preliminaries have been made. } Because of a chronic illness, I am striving to build a stronger body with the help of moderate exercise. For a year I have been climbing the foothills and ridges looking for pottery shards, skin scrapers, and projectile points left by the Indians. This fascinating occupation is healthful and restful. I shall keep NOW IS THE TIME walking among the hills "from whence cometh my help," in search of treasures and peace of the soul, breathing the bracing air and marveling at the creations of the Lord. A beginning is all I have made, yet I know I shall welcome the years that add to such joys as these. Family "Book of Remembrance" will be as interesting and tradition-making to my great-great-grandchildren in the year 2061 as the pioneer journals are to us. But not many persons can write accurate and interesting histories when they are seventy-five. Family records should be begun early, to be continued and embellished later. There is a part of living that can never be laid aside — the memory must be strengthened and the mind enriched. 'To maintain intellectual vigor means continuous study, contemplation, and discussion. Building on knowledge and sharing wisdom are the only antidotes to, "She died at fifty but wasn't buried until she was seventy-five." We die when we do not grow. Relief Society lessons, lectures, adult education classes, short courses, and workshops are available even to those of us who live in the country. Some study that requires persistence and delightful, yet provocative conversations, can help to keep away the film that passing years spread over the life of the mind. This life of the mind needs intensive and extensive stimulation, a product of being with other people. What is life, if it isn't "people"? Friends are needed more, not less, than before. Nothing is as sad as an aged person who has been forsaken and lives in his prison of 37 separateness. Our insurance against such a predicament is to watch tenderly over loved ones and serve others as long as we have breath. Life's reciprocity laws are real. With God's help, if we do our best and demonstrate concern for our fellow men, nothing can really hurt us, and the declining years can be met confidently. There are innumerable splendid books to be read and re-read, but few give the comfort we reach for as does the New Testament. In one year I read it seven times and only began to see its possibilities. When this great collection of books is mastered I shall know my Lord better; this will be a beatitude for the benediction years. Spiritually, mentally, and physically, going to the temple is a blessing to the aged, but there is an advantage if the work is understood and enjoyed when we are young. Being with others who share a common goal moves the walls of any aloneness. In doing this significant work, we give unselfish devotion to peoples of the past, our present days are refreshed and enlightened, and we tie ourselves together for the future. What more satisfying labor could anyone engage in? Perhaps it can be approached by bringing the gospel to those around us, and by the quiet scattering of blessings by the Relief Society visiting teachers. N later years, if longing to see the faces of loved ones becomes too absorbing, it would be well to do part-time volunteer work in a hospital, or give compassionate service to the ward's sick under the direction of the Relief Society president. This is a very real need and brings 378 immeasurable satisfaction. But these services require a "know how" that is best learned in such courses as "Caring for the Sick' classes of Relief Society. Even the desires of the heart to bless and comfort others have early beginnings and must be nurtured. We can see from the foregoing, that our deepest needs are not purchasable. But wholesome food, good clothing, and a pleasant abode, are important, too. By studies made of retired individuals it has been noted that those who had enough income to feel free to have friends and relatives visit them often, were in turn more frequently invited out. They had a sense of well-being because they ate a greater variety of food, enjoyed better health, and were more active than their contemporaries who had to watch every penny. Even if an aged person is ill, she should never be deprived of all work or the lust for life will disappear, and she cannot make any contribu tion to her surroundings. Her status is never negligible, and she can retain a feeling of usefulness if some work and activity are arranged, with rest periods to meet her needs. Giving up everything feeds fears. For lasting satisfactions, some current pleasures must be sacrificed. If to be happy in the declining years I have to give up some wants now, I will do it; I will conserve my health by eating and exercising wisely; and I will gather a "nest egg" by being frugal because I want my latch to be up when friends and loved ones call. I am aware of the need to cultivate rejuvenating interests and share them, because I want to be a friend and have strong and lasting relationships with others. Now that I have begun to prepare and plan for old age, I can understand what Browning said when he wrote: Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. <i WVhole-