A Seather in Her Hat Sylvia Probst Young N Monday morning, right after the stores opened, Karen called me. "Mary," she said, "Chris has some beautiful percale that's going on sale for twenty-nine cents. Why don't you come by and look at it, if you have time today? It would make beautiful quilts and aprons for our bazaar." Karen Haskell is my Work Director Counselor, and, although she clerks at Bowers Mercantile five days a week, she has arranged to have her day off on Tuesday so she can attend Relief Society and _participate in our work. And what a worker Karen is, with a radiance that is contagious. I could have never found better counselors than she and Ruby Stevens. They make being president an easier job than it might otherwise be. From the telephone I turned back to my dusting, thinking of Karen. At thirty-nine she is a widow with five children to support, and with certain financial obligations, because of 'Tom's long illness, that would completely dishearten many of us. But Karen has a way of seeing sunshine through the darkest cloud. "It is my first duty to keep my children happy," she has told me. "IT want them to live as normally as if Tom were still with us. It isn't always easy to put on a bright front, but that's the thing I must do." It's a philosophy that has paid dividends, for Karen's home is a well-ordered place of peace and Page 392 warmth and a deep understanding between her children and herself. Sally, seventeen, the oldest and only daughter, has her mother's charm, but with a quiet reserve, too, such as Tom had. "I don't know how I'd manage without her," Karen has often told me. And it is surprising how well Sally takes over with her four young brothers when Karen isn't there. Right after lunch I drove over to Bowers. Karen was busy with a customer, so I visited with Chris for a few minutes. It's a pleasure to visit with Chris Bowers and as beneficial as a spring tonic. With a good morning smile and a bit of friendliness, he makes everyone feel just right. It was while I was talking to him that the idea came to me, and what a perfectly beautiful idea it was! "What would you think if I stole your best clerk the first week of Apmil and took her down to Conference?" I asked him. He was reflective for a moment. "Well now," he finally said, "I do believe Karen needs a few days off. I get so dependent on her I don't think of it. And since you tell me this far ahead I think I can arrange ie While we were selecting percale I told Karen of my big idea, and she was enthusiastic. "Mary, I'd love it," she exclaimed, ""t's been years since I've been down to Conference." "Then let's really plan to go," I told her. '"'Al won't mind batching A FEATHER IN HER HAT for a few days. I'm sure that Ruby can get away, too, and your boys will be cared for as well as if you were there I'll drive my car; the weather should be pleasant by then." HE next 'Tuesday was our work meeting. Karen and I went early to put on a quilt. "I hope you're still planning on Conference," I reminded her. "T surely am," she said, "I told my family about it, and you should have heard the plans. The things they want me to bring them," she laughed, "you'd think I was planning a trip to New York." I smiled knowingly, remembering how my children had been. "But speaking of the trip, Mary, why don't you ride over to Maurine's with me when meeting is out. She has the cutest green spring coat in her window, and I've needed a light coat for so long. If it's my size and not too expensive, I'll get her to put it on 'will call' until next payday." Maurine's Shop is a sort of special place, not exclusive, but you can be sure that what you buy there is always good. Maurine has been in the business in our town for at least twenty years—long enough to know almost everybody's size and what would look best on them. "T think that coat is just your size," she told Karen, "Ill get it from the window and we'll see." The coat fit Karen perfectly. "You know this Karen,' Maurine said, "has a figure as nice as her Sally's. Imagine, Mary, that's size ten—what happened to you and me?" In spite of the sales pitch, Maurine was right. Karen did have an 393 enviable figure, and the coat was very becoming on her, especially the color that looked so nice with her coppery hair. And another nice thing was the price—just twenty-five dollars. Karen was very pleased. She gave Maurine fifteen, and promised to get the other ten after her next payday. She wouldn't take the coat in spite of Maurine's wanting her to. "Td rather leave it right here until I have it all paid for." As she walked out of the shop, she turned a smiling face to me. "Funny how something new can give you a lift. I guess it's just what I needed to pick me up." TURING the next two weeks J didn't see Karen except at Relief Society. Alice's baby was sick, and I had her two older children a good part of the time. And on Sunday Karen didn't come to church because her little Johnny had a bad cold. But on Friday night I walked over to Karen's to get some apron patterns, and to take a knitting book that I had promised to lend to her. Knowing how fond her boys are of cookies, I had made a batch of snickerdoodles to take along for them. Warm spring darkness lay softly over the land. Overhead a clouddraped moon looked down, and the air was cool and fresh from the afternoon rain. I walked along with a wonderful sense of well-being, drinking in the beauty of the night. At Karen's house Sally opened the door to me; her eyes were glowing like twin stars. "Hello. Come in. Mama isn't here just now, she just ran over 394 to Mrs. Peters," she explained, "but she should be right back." I handed her the basket. "Some cookies I baked—these hungry boys keep you girls cooking." "Oh, how nice of you. Like cookies. Thanks a lot." "Hey, you boys," she called, going into the kitchen, "look what's for you." "You look like something exciting was about to happen," I told her when she came back. She beamed, "It really has. It's the junior prom, and I have the most wonderful date—Mark Jeppson. You know the Jeppsons, Mary, they moved over on Coolidge Street about a month ago." "Oh, yes," I remembered, "they're in our ward, now. His mother comes to Relief Society." She nodded, "And Mom bought me the most beautiful dress I've ever seen. I'll show you." She came back carefully holding a soft creation of lilac-colored organza and lace stitched with tiny pink rosebuds. It was almost breathtaking—the kind of dress that goes with youth and springtime and laughter. "Isn't it sweet? Mom bought it at Maurine's yesterday. It was a surprise to me. I think I have the most wonderful Mom in the whole world." While we were admiring the dress, Karen came home. We sat down to visit and discuss Relief Society, and before I realized how late it was getting, Mark Jeppson arrived. He was a_ nice-looking, clean-cut young man. I could readily see why Sally was thrilled to go to the junior prom with him. She came out of the bedroom then, and I've never seen a lovelier We all young girl. Karen's eyes followed her, and they expressed all her pride and hope and mother love. At the door, just when they were ready to go, Sally turned impulsively, and planted a quick kiss on Karen's cheek. When they were gone Karen turned to me, and her face was radiant. "I think I'm as happy as she is," she sighed. "I was so afraid she might not get asked—she's kind of a shy little thing, and a junior prom when you're a junior is so important." "She looked so sweet, too," I said, "thanks to you." "It is a beautiful dress, isn't it? I've been repaid a hundredfold for getting it." I knew what she meant—"I have the most wonderful Mom," Sally had said—and the quick kiss at the door, were expressions of love that were priceless. We went to Conference the next week. I picked up Karen first because she lives closer to me than Ruby. She came down the walk in her old beige coat. I had guessed that she would be wearing it. As she got into the car, she gave me a knowing smile. "The cleaners did such a good job on it I almost feel as if it's new," she said. "But you have something new," I observed. It was a gay, little natural straw hat, set off by a saucy pink feather. "Oh, the hat—isn't it a dear? Sally bought it with her allowance —a surprise to me. You know," she laughed, "I like a feather in my hat!" "T think you've always worn one," I told her. Catherine Johnson Strong and Eliza Creer White Enjoy Rug Mlaking Sogether fs neighbors of Midvale, Utah, have made a happy and useful combination of their hobbies, and they spend many hours together making their specialty — rugs of many kinds. Sister White, at the left, who is eighty-two years old, and Sister Strong, at the right, seventy-nine, are experts in design, selection of materials and colors for their tugs, and have mastered the intricacies of loom weaving. The weaving frame shown in the picture is forty by sixty inches and is made of wood and is adjustable so that rugs can be made wider or longer, as desired. On each end of the frame hooks are placed three-fourths of an inch apart for fastening the denim strips which form the warp for the rug. Strips of used cotton clothing one and one-half inches wide provide the woof for the rugs. Braided and hooked art rugs are also shown in the picture. When rugs and quilts do not demand the attention of Sister Strong, she embroiders, does textile painting, or makes hobby horses for her grandchildren. She loves flowers and maintains her own garden and home, and is grandmother to thirty-seven. For more than thirty years she has been a visiting teacher. Sister White, aside from her civic and religious activities, and the care of her home and flowers, has enjoyed crocheting, tatting, cutwork, needlepoint, water color painting, and making quilts and rugs. Also, she collects rare buttons, some of which were worn on early pioneer clothing. She has a strand of over a thousand buttons. Her collection of souvenir spoons is remarkable for beauty and interest, since the spoons come from many places, purchased or presented to Sister White as gifts. She is especially skilled in making crocheted rugs of discarded woolen materials. Both Sister Strong and Sister White have presented many gifts of handwork and quilts and rugs to relatives and friends and neighbors, and they have assisted the Relief Society sisters in learning the skills which they have mastered so well, and which have greatly enriched their own lives and the lives of many others.