Truth Is Sublime Betty Lou Martin 66 IGHT o'clock, children," Lydia Samuels called to her two children, Jerry and Sue Ann, as she glanced at the clock on the shelf. "Breakfast is ready. Come and eat." Lydia heaped the sauce dishes full of steaming hot cereal, poured two glasses of milk, and put toast and fresh fruit on the table. Her husband, Ned Samuels, had to leave for work at six o'clock in the morning now, and Lydia had to make two breakfasts every morning. She smiled pleasantly at herself. She had finally lost the added weight that she had gained from eating breakfast with both Ned and the children. Now, she ate her breakfast with her husband and then had a glass of fruit juice with the children. Breakfast had always been an important time for the Samuels. It was a time of gaiety and friendliness before each member of the family departed his separate way for the day. I voices sounded in the hallway. "I have never seen such a baby," Jerry said angrily as he entered the kitchen and sat down at the table. "Now what's the matter?" Lydia asked, as she looked from Jerry's frowning face to Sue Ann's tearstained one. "I wish that you two would try to get along. It is such a beautiful day. Don't spoil it, children." "Td get along with her, Mom, if she wouldn't tell those stories. She Page 396 is always making up something that isn't true." Jerry looked at his seven-year-old sister with disapproval. "I know, Jerry. Now you two are going to be late for school. Eat your breakfast, and we'll discuss this further tonight." Lydia sighed. It was true, Sue Ann did make up stories, and Lydia could not understand why she persisted in doing it. The doorbell rang, and Sue Ann headed hurriedly for the back door. "Mom, it's Carolyn, and I don't want to walk to school with her. Tell her that I have already gone, and I'll sneak out the back door." Lydia felt an angry flush leap to her cheeks. She took Sue Ann by the arm and marched her toward the front door. "You know that is not being truthful. [I'm not going to start making up stories for you. Now you answer that door and walk to school with Carolyn." Sue Ann walked beside Carolyn to school, her wavy blonde hair bouncing angrily, and Lydia could imagine the anger she was feeling behind those blue eyes and peachesand-cream complexion. "Golly, Mom," eleven-year-old Jerry said seriously, "what are we going to do with her? Fun is fun, but she is always pulling some trick like that. Remember the time that she hid in the closet because she didn't want to go out and play. We thought she was over to Grandma's place all the time, but she had just ignored the doorbell." Jerry was right. Sue Ann was TRUTH IS SUBLIME getting to be a problem, and Lydia honestly did not understand why the child acted the way that she did. LYDIA hurried through her work that day, stopping only long enough to prepare herself some lunch. Later, she went to the grocery store to pick up a few items, and before she realized it, it was time for the children to come home from school. Jerry walked in and helped himself to some fresh fruit that Lydia had just washed and arranged in a bowl in the center of the table. "Boy, what a day this has been. Those teachers just keep heaping on the homework. How do they ever expect me to be a great baseball player if they keep giving me all this homework?" Lydia laughed as she ruffled Jerty's hair. "Well, dear, I guess that they have other things on their minds than your being a great baseball player. Did you see Sue Ann on your way home?" 7 "Yes, I saw her, but she wouldn't even talk to me, and it looked as if she had been crying," Jerry said as he picked up his books and headed toward the living room. "Boy, I'm glad that I'm not a girl." Just then the door swung open and a somewhat bewildered looking little girl stood in the doorway. "What's the matter, honey?" Lydia asked as Sue Ann ran to her and threw her arms about her. "Oh, Mommy, it's all that Carolyn's fault. She wanted to walk home with me tonight, and I told my friends to tell her that I had already gone, and the teacher heard me. She said that nice little girls don't treat other people that way." Sue Ann was sobbing. "I am a nice girl, Mommy, aren't I?" Lydia lifted Sue Ann upon her lap and wiped her tear-stained face. "Of course, you are a nice little girl, honey, but the teacher was nght when she said that you shouldn't treat your friends or anybody that way. It isn't being honest with them or yourself. Now, let's go wash your face. We won't talk about it any more right now, but we'll see what your father has to say when he gets home tonight." That evening after dinner Lydia discussed Sue Ann with Ned, explaining how the child had been acting lately. "How in the world did she ever get started doing that?" Ned inquired. "She can't go around hiding in the closet from people. I just won't have her acting that way." "T know, dear. I have talked to her and told her time and time again, but the more I seem to talk, the worse she gets. I just can't seem to shame her out of it." Lydia sighed. ""What do you think we should do?" "Well, Vl tell you one thing. When I was a youngster, I was deprived of certain privileges if I didn't mind. It hurt a lot worse than if my father had spanked me." Ned thought for a moment. "We'll just have to stop her allowance this week and she won't be allowed to go to the movies this Saturday." "Oh, Ned, no," Lydia objected. "She looks forward to the movies on Saturday, and all her little friends go, too. I can see stopping the allowance, but not the movies." "Lydia, I think that we both agree that Sue Ann has to stop this habit. How will she know that we really 398 mean business, if we don't take some steps? Now as much as she enjoys the movies, I am sure that in order to go, she'll stop her convenient little stories," Ned persisted. "All right, Ned, but I hope that you will tell her what we have decided. I don't want to,' Lydia added. Ned put his arm about Lydia. "Tf it is that painful for you, I'll tell her. I don't want to hurt her feelings any more than you do, dear, but enough of this nonsense is enough." ED walked softly into the bedroom where Sue Ann lay looking ata book. "Time to go to sleep now, honey,' Ned said looking down at Sue Ann. She looked like a little doll lying there, with her wide blue eyes and curly hair. Ned felt a lump in his throat as he started to speak. It was so hard to reprimand either her or Jerry. Ned sat down on the bed beside his daughter and tucked the blankets up about her. "Honey, I've been talking to your mother, and she tells me that you have been telling stories that aren't true to get tid of people when you haven't wanted to see them. You know that Heavenly Father wants us to be honest, don't you?" Sue Ann nodded. "Well, then, this can't be very honest, can it?" Ned's voice was little more than a whisper. "Daddy and Mother don't want you to do these things, and your Mother has spoken to you before about it, but you don't seem to remember. Now, to make sure that you won't do this again, we're not going to give you any allowance this week, and we're not going to let you go to the movies with your little friends. When you stop telling untruths, then you will get your allowance and can go to the movies again." "Oh, Daddy, no, no,' Sue Ann cried as she buried her head in her pillow. "You wouldn't do that to me." Ned soothed his daughter. "I want you to know, Sue Ann, that it is Only because we love you very much that we are doing this. Now you go to sleep." The next morning Sue Ann asked her mother, "Mommy, Daddy didn't really mean it did he, about not getting my allowance or going to the movies?" "Yes, we both mean it, Sue Ann." Lydia was unhappy just looking at the hurt, bewildered expression on Sue Ann's face. "When you stop telling stories that aren't true, then you can have your allowance again and go to the movies, but not until." Sue Ann started to cry and was still in tears when she left for school. That evening Sue Ann tried again. "Mommy, if I promise right now that I won't tell any more stories or anything like that, can I go to the movies this Saturday?" "No, Sue Ann, not this Saturday. You've promised Mommy many times before, but always you have broken your promise." Sue Ann moped around the house the rest of the week, having very little to say. It was a strain on the rest of the family as well as Sue Ann, but Ned and Lydia had decided to remain firm. When Saturday arrived, one of Sue Ann's little friend's mother called to tell Lydia that she would TRUTH IS SUBLIME pick Sue Ann up to take her to the movies, and Lydia explained that Sue Ann wouldn't be going. Sue Ann heard the conversation, but she didn't utter a word in protest. When Jerry left for the movies, she still didn't show any visible sign of emotion. "It seems to have worked," Lydia told Ned. "Sue Ann hasn't told one story. I think that she is even starting to like Carolyn. She doesn't try to avoid her any more." "We should have done this long ago, Lydia," Ned said. "I think that we can let her go to the movies this coming Saturday, and also give her an allowance again." Lydia was pleased. "You tell her, Ned. She'll be so happy." Even Jerry was happy when he learned that Sue Ann could have her privileges back again. 'Gosh, Mom," he said, "I just hate to see her feel hurt." HAT Saturday Lydia was rushing to get ready for a meeting and to get Sue Ann ready for the movies, when she noticed a salesman approaching their house. "Oh, dear, Sue Ann, here comes a salesman, and Mommy just hasn't time to talk to him today. We are almost late now." Lydia was frustrated. "You be right quiet, honey, and he'll think that we're not home and go away." The persistent salesman finally gave up in defeat and went away. Sue Ann looked up at her mother inquisitively, as if deep in thought, "Mommy," she said. "What, dear?" Lydia asked as she brushed Sue Ann's hair into place. "Is Daddy going to take away your allowance now?" she asked. 399 "Sue Ann, what are you talking about?" Lydia said questioningly. "Well, whenever I ran and hid from people and told stories, you said that I was bad. But you always did it, so I thought that it would be all right if I did it, too." Sue Ann spoke innocently. Oh, no, Lydia thought. I've been punishing and reprimanding Sue Ann for something that she has seen me do. No wonder she has been so confused. She thought that if I did it, it would be all right for her to do it, too. What have I done? Lydia took stock of herself right then. She admitted that at various times, if it wasn't convenient for her, she had told the children to tell someone that she wasn't at home, or else she had remained quiet so someone wouldn't think that she was at home. She didn't have any idea that all this time Sue Ann had been taking it to heart. Now she had to face her little daughter with some logical explanation. She kneeled in front of the little girl who sat primly on the chair awaiting an explanation. "Sue Ann, honey, your Daddy Should take away my allowance. Mommy has been doing something very, very wrong, and even more wrong, I have made you think that it is all right, and then turned around and told you that it was wrong. No wonder you didn't know what was right and what was wrong. Please forgive me, dear, and I promise you that I won't act this way ever again." Lydia pledged to herself that very day that she would be very careful the way she spoke and the way that 400 she acted. She wanted her children to grow up to be fine and honest upstanding individuals. 'This being true, she knew that she must work all the harder to be that type of individual herself. She finally told Ned what had happened, and she had only to look at Sue Ann to remember the shame that she felt. She wondered if Sue Ann remembered, too. To Lydia's relief, Sue Ann never mentioned the episode after that day, and to the family's delight, Sue Ann never told any more stories. But then—neither did Lydia. Oi! Paintin g Shirley Ann M. Hales OO" painting has opened up a whole new world for me—a world of beauty and intense color, of peace and satisfaction. Love for the scenery of mountains and forests has always been dominant in my life, but it wasn't until I started painting with oils that I truly began to appreciate our beautiful country. Painting brought to me the realization of a vast prism of color. Closer scrutiny of the "brown" tree trunk revealed varieties of whites, grays, blues, and browns, while pinks, lavenders, whites, and myriad of greens were evident in the foliage. Now, with rapture I seek the blueshadowed ravines on a sun-drenched peak, the cool purple of shadows on a shimmering trail, or the delicate blend of sun and shade on the creamy smoothness of an aspen. I revel in the gradation of color on a spruce trunk against a background of mountain and shrub, and thrill to the sharp black silhouette of its high branches against a blue sky. I rejoice in the subtlety of pinks, reds, and oranges of a rocky crag, and the rich warm tones of yellow ocher and umber in an autumn field. 'There is a matchless challenge in trying to reproduce on a palette, the glowing shades and colors of an inviting landscape. A feeling of peace prevails on a painting expedition, whether alone or in the company of other artists. Relaxing with a fresh white canvas on my easel, with nothing but the wind stirring the trees, the hum of insects, and a fragrant breeze wafting around me, any accumulation of tension and frustration melts away, for there is complete absorption in the work. Inton ALMOND BLOSSOMS Sometimes, while quietly painting, a movement will attract my eye and there will be a small bird, a chipmunk or a squirrel only a few feet away, soothed into fearlessness by the silence and the slow casual movements. Oil painting has come to mean peace, satisfaction, and spiritual joy, as I draw close to my Father in heaven through the beauty of his creation.