Work ITleeting— Attitudes and Manners Message 36—""One Man Shall Not Build Upon Another's Foundation" (D & C 52:33). Objective: To emphasize the fact that we can build solid foundations only upon our own efforts and accomplishments. Message 37—"And Let Every Man Deal Honestly" (D & C 51:9). Objective: To show that honesty is the foundation of individual and universal character. Message 38—"According to Men's Faith It Shall Be Done Unto Them" (D & C 52:20). Objective: To show the remarkable power and blessings of faith. Message 39—"I Will Be Merciful Unto You" (D & C 50:16). Objective: 'To demonstrate the Christhike nature of true mercy. Message 4o—"Continue in Steadfastness" (D & C 49:23). Objective: To show that steadfastness is one of our most important character traits. How Do You Do? Preview of Discussions for 1961-1962 Elaine Anderson Cannon E, pass through this world but once, and it behooves us all to lift ourselves to our highest level of spirituality, intelligence, morality, gentility, and refinement. To make this experience of living abundant and satisfying, we must not be content with half measures. Because the success of this life determines our status in the future one, we should be rightly concerned with these matters. Our very relationship with God is dependent upon our relationship with others of LESSON DEPARTMENT his children. Our self-respect, our inner needs, our recognitions and our opportunities for serving and accepting service from others, our example setting, and our guidance of those under our realm of responsibility, all are influenced by our willingness to put forth the effort to like and to be liked. Here, then, is one of the great rewards of this life — to get along harmoniously with other people. Thus the noblest aims of men are not frustrated because of petty personal problems, and the simplest associations may become sweet and memorable experiences. Since the beginning of history, prophets and philosophers have concerned themselves with instructing mankind in the art of human relationships. Never has there been a time when thoughtfulness for others has not been considered a valued personal trait. The key to all social interchange, to personal popularity, to effective community life, to happy family associations, and to ideal government, is "... Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them " (Mt. 7:12). This is the basis of all moral and ethical thinking and behaving. Looking, acting, thinking in a way which will influence people favorably toward you and _ bring pleasure to them is most desirable. It is important that women realize their very special role in fostering love for one's fellow men, of setting a proper example in appearance and consideration for others, of creating an element of security in the home, making the most of that which they have, and echoing the loveliest in their local customs and culture. The purpose of this year's course 415 of study is to point out the challenges and rewards of self-improvement, and the confidence and poise which can come with knowledge of proper behavior under various social situations. Through emotional, social, and spiritual maturity, we may learn to get along with others and achieve an inner peace that results from dealing with one's fellow men pleasantly and_ effectively. From this accomplishment there follows the additional reward of knowing we are thus serving our Father in heaven. This discussion course is planned with the hope that it will place this achievement within the grasp of all of our sisters; that practicing the tules of the project of happy group relationships will be pleasant and profitable to Relief Society members and their families. The 1961-62 series of discussions have been given the following titles and objectives: Discussion 1—Manners Matter Objective: To show that good manners are fundamental in establishing harmonious relationships with our fellow beings. Discussion 2—Just for Example Objective: To show that the example of a considerate woman is reflected in the lives of her family. Discussion 3—Being a Good Neighbor Objective: To show that we serve our Father in heaven better and are happier if we obey the commandment "... Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to theme " (Mt. 7:12). Discussion 4—Courtesy in Church Objective: To emphasize that we honor our Father in heaven when we practice and encourage respect for others in Church, and for the edifices themselves. Discussion 5—