[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 7 | Title: A TRIP TO BANNOCK STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

A TRIP TO BANNOCK STAKE.

	ON Friday morning August 12, accom-
panied by Sister Lillie Freeze I left Salt
Lake City to visit the sisters in Bannock
Stake. We left on the 10.5 a. m. train for
Idaho Falls. We had a very pleasant visit
wtth Brothers John Henry Smith and C. C.
Card who were going to attend the Bannock
Stake quarterly conference. On arriving at
Idaho Falls about seven o'clock we found
President Ricks with a carriage waiting our
arrival; and were soon on our way for
Lewsville, a distance of sixteen miles, ar-
riving at ten o'clock very tired and dusty.
We were kindly received by Brother Miller
and wife with whom we remained the next
three days. Saturday morning (13th) at
ten o'clock we met with the Primary Asso-
ciation and after I had made a few remarks
to the children, Sister Freeze addressed
them and took an active part in their ex-
ercises which was very educational to the
children.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society
(Sister Jardine President), and the Young
Ladies. We instructed the sisters on the 
importance of the organization of the Relief
Society and their duties as wives and
mothers, Sister Freeze spoke to the young
people in a very interesting manner, exhort-
ing them to live pure lives, and be Latter-
day Saints in all their associating together.
	Sister Freeze is well qualified to instruct
the young people of Zion.
	Sunday morning, 14th, at 10 o'clock the
Stake Conference commenced. The house
was filled to overflowing, people coming
from 12 to 25 miles with their families to at-
tend the meeting. Much valuable instruc-
tion was given by the brethren; a good
spirit prevailed in all the gatherings of the
saints.
	President Ricks invited the visiting
sisters to occupy the stand on Sunday even-
ing, we consented; the house was literally
crammed, the brethren were present in large
numbers and we felt encouraged by their
presence. We had an excellent time to-
gether. Attended conference the next day
Monday, 15th, at four p. m., after the meet-
ing closed we started for Rexburg, distant
sixteen miles, arriving about sundown.
The writer was hospitablly entertained by
Patriarch Arza Hinckley and family, Sister
Hinckley is the Stake President of the Relief
Society. Tuesday, 16th, we started again
at nine o'clock for Parker Ward, where

[Column 2]

meeting was held at two o'clock, the house
was filled with the people from Egin and
other wards.
	Sister Winters drove her own conveyance
and brought a load of the sisters from Rex-
burg returning the same evening traveling
twenty-five miles as well as fording Snake
River twice. I forgot to mention our hav-
ing to ferry over Snake River on our way
from Lewisville to Rexburg which detained
us a while on our journey. The meeting
was a spirited one the sisters being urged to
a more fatthful discharge of their important
duties in the organizations. They were all
glad to meet and shake hands with us. Our
company spent the night with Bishop
Parker and family, who did all they could
to make us comfortable. Sister Parker
went into the garden and picked fresh ras-
berries for our supper which was a great
treat in that far off Northern country;
Brother and Sister Parker were old friends
of ours and we enjoyed ourselves very much
	Wednesday, 17th, drove to Willford, dist-
ance six miles, ate dinner with Sister Pratt,
President of the Relief Society, held meet-
ing at two p. m., another full house, the
visiting sister and President Ricks occup-
ied the time. At 4 o'clock started for Rex-
burg a ride of ten miles where we met (in
the evening) with the Young Men and
Young Ladies in their conjoint meeting; a
full attendance; a good spirit prevailed,
much good instruction and counsel was
given; we met old friends and made many
new ones. Thursday, 18th, met with the
Relief Society again, the house was filled;
it being the first visit that the sisters from
the city had made, all seemed anxious to
hear their teachings. The choir came to all
our meetings their lively singing adding
much to the spirit of the meeting, we had
an excellent time together which will be
long remembered by all present. Sister
Freeze met with the children; a great many
bright children were present, and were well
behaved. Sister Freeze in her happy man-
ner interested them about an hour. At
5 p. m. we were on our way to Menan,
arriving at sundown, eighteen miles ride.
Stayed all night with Bishop Stephen's family.
	Friday, 19th, were again on the move at
eight a. m. traveled twenty-five miles, ar-
riving at Iona about noon, held meeting at
2 o'clock with the Relief Society also Pri-
mary Association.
	I was astonished at the extent of country
and the quantity of water everywhere.
Such large canals which extended for miles,
I asked President Ricks if he could give me
an estimate of the length of the canals. He
said there were two thousand miles of
ditches and canals. We rode through miles
of beautiful wheat and other grain, fenced
on either side which was wonderful, when
we were told that all the work had been
done in such a short space of time; it being
only nine years since the first houses were
built.
	At about 5 o'clock we started for Idaho
Falls arriving safely at 6:30, distance from
Iona seven miles. Met with the Relief
Society at eight; again a full house, people
coming from fifteen to twenty miles to at-
tend the meeting. Mothers with children
in their arms knowing it would take them
till midnight to ride home.
	A Primary was organized after the meet-
ing. This ended our labors in the Bannock
Stake. We spent a very pleasant evening
at Bishop Thomas's; with President Ricks
and wife also Counselor Steele. At 12.30


we left for the depot; in fifteen minutes the
train came along; we shook hands with our
friends, stepped aboard the train and were
soon speeding on our homeward journey
arriving at nine o’clock in Salt Lake City
very tired yet thankful to our Heavenly
Father for his preserving care over us. We
had a pleasant but arduous trip, traveling
six hundred miles. Too much praise can-
not be given to President Ricks for his kind
fatherly care over us, in seeing that we
were comfortably provided for meeting us
at the train and traveling with us around
the Stake, and seeing us aboard the train
for our homeward journey. We shall never
forget our trip to the good folks of Bannock
Stake.
				M. Isabella Horne.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
