RUSKIN'S HOME PICTURES.

	A correspondent of the New York World,
who lately visited this eccentric genius, says:
	"Mr. Ruskin lives now among the English
lakes, at Brantwood, on Lake Coniston. His
house is on a slope above the lake, and is best
approached, as I approached it a few weeks
ago, by water. A more charming house could
not be imagined. The visitor, looking down
from the front of the house on the lovely lake,
and away up the grand hills that tower above
the quiet village, sees one of nature's fairest
scenes, and within doors there are treasures of
art and industry which I should have liked
weeks instead of hours to examine.
	Some of Mr. Ruskin's pictures are well
krown from frequent allusions to them in
his writings. He often refers to Titian's
'Venetian Senator,' a most imposing picture
which hangs in the dining-room under glass
There also is a picture of Angelica Kaufmann
—Miss Angel— by Sir Joshua Reynolds; a
portrait of Turner when a young man, painted
by himself, and Napoleon I. on horseback, by
Meissionneir—a painting which is more speaking
than a shelf-ful of biography about the little
Corporal. The collection of Turner's is unique.
Some of the paintings are very early ones, and
were made when the artist was still trammelled
by conventionalities. Others, again, show when
he had learned to fly. Mr. Ruskin showed
me with a magnifying-glass the amount of min-
ute, conscientious work which they all contain.
He said that Turner never, or almost never,
painted in the open air. He observed and
made notes, but he worked in the studio. I
asked whether that was a mere habit,or whether
it proceeded from any principle. 'From the
most important principle;' said Mr. Ruskin.
'In the open air the scene is constantly chang-
ing.. The clouds, the shadows, the hues shift
from moment to moment. You cannot, there-
fore, be true to nature and represent a harmon-
ious whole if you attempt to copy what is con-
tinually changing. You must grasp the scene
as a unity, and then evolve it on the canvas."
—Ex,


Good habits are the porters that throw open
wide the gates of success.

	Education should enable one to think for
himself, not cram with the thoughts and ideas
of other people.

	A man should not be judged by his failure
in life, for there are a class of men who are too
scrupulously honest to succeed.

	To obtain by one's own industry, fully as
much as one spends, gives men or women a
feeling of true independence that those cannot
have who subsist upon the bounty or hand-
earnings of others.


