CHORUS."

	Early in June companies of families were
formed, who started Westward, following, when
they could, the track of the pioneers. In one
of these companies, in charge of Capt. Jede-
diah M. Grant, Sister Eliza continued her pil-
grimage, with the family of Bro. Robert Pierce.
It was a long and tedious journey, and none
but those acquainted with the facts can ever
fully appreciate what such a journey really is,
and especially how it would affect a sensitive,
delicate woman, but just recovering from a se-
vere illness. The lady writes: "Much of the
time we were on an untrodden way; but when
we came to the track of the pioneers, as we oc-
casionally did, and read the date of their pres-
ence, with an 'all well' accompaniment, on a
bleached buffalo skull, we had a general time
of rejoicing." She refers in glowing terms and
poetic verse to the moonlight and starlight eve-
nings, when the brethren and sisters circled
around the blazing camp fires and sung hymns
of praise, their voices reverberating "from hill
to hill, and echoing through the silent expanse,
seemed to fill the vast concave above while the
glory of God seemed to rest on all around."
	On the bank of the Platte River, August
25, 1847, Sister Eliza wrote her characteristic
"Song of the Desert," which may be found on
page 181, Vol. 1, of her poems.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"Beside the broad, smooth river,
	Beside the flowing spring,"
Beside the limpid streamlet,
	We often sit and sing.

Beneath the sparkling concave,
	When stars in millions come
To cheer the pilgrim strangers
	And bid us feel at home;
Beneath the lovely moonlight,
	When Cynthia spreads her rays;
In social groups assembled,
	We join in songs of praise."

	But there were other scenes enacted, and
many dark days as well as bright ones. "Nurs-
ing the sick in tents and wagons, and burying
the dead by the wayside, consigning the loved
ones to lonely graves in the midst of a wild
desert, was indeed mournful, yes, pitiful." But
we can only just glance at those sad occurren-
ces, those heart-rending scenes, and pass on
with our simple but truthful narrative.

To be Continued.


