IN  THE SENATE OF OREGON.

	Mrs. Duniway expressed her deep appreciation
of the high honor the Senate, by its invitation,
had conferred upon her as a representative of the
great class of otherwise unrepresented though
taxpaying citizens of this commonwealth,
"who," she said, "have commissioned me, as
their humble servant, to appear before you on
their behalf, and urge you to grant to the voters
of Oregon the privilege and power to decide
whether or not your wives, your mothers, your
sisteis and daughters shall be accorded the right
to a voice in making the laws of a government
which they are taxed to sustain, and to the
statutes of which they are held amenable. We
are not unmindful that I am here to-night by
your court[---] rather than by acknowledged
right; and I confess that I find it a rather dif-
ficult task to stand before you and by your con-
sent make a complaint which you have the
the power—but for your magnanimity—to de-
prive me of opportunity to make at all. But, if
you could read the letters I get from almost
every quarter, and almost every post, written by
women that work at the loom, or the churn-dash,
or the wash-board, or the cooking stove, and
who, through their labor in rearing sons and
daughters, are taxed to sustain the government
and uphold the laws you are here to consider,
you would not wonder that I, also a mother of
men, have the courage to discharge my duty on
their behalf to the best of my humble but ear-
nest ability. 'Courage,' these Spartan wives
and mothers write to me; we are at home
praying for you.' And, Mr. President, I feel
the inspiration of their prayers to-night. They
bid me to come before you as their standard-
bearer and your friend, to assure you that their
interests are your interests, and they will do
you good not evil all the days of your lives;
They are willing to trust the voice of the voters,
if you will but grant them—the husbands,
fathers, brothers and sons—power to decide that
their wives and mothers shall have the same
right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness
that you claim for yourselves. I do not believe
that the Senators will feel that they can afford
to establish the dangerous precedent that would
result from the proposed decision that it would
not be possible to submit another amendment
to any part of the State Constitution while two
or more amendments are pending. It was wis-
dom on the part of the formers of the Constitu-
tion to provide that no amendment to a pending
amendment could be offered by the Legislature
before which such amendment, while pending,
must go for ratification. The man who, in
crossing a stream, used the handle of a scythe
for a bridge, but failed to see, till it was too late,
that in so doing the blade of the insrument must
sway round and cut off his head, was not one
whit more short-sighted than the Senator who
would be willing to so construe a single clause of
the Constitution as to make the Constitution
itself inoperative as a whole, or even in part.
Mr. President, I learned, while yet a little child,
when attending school in a little log cabin in
the heart of a frontier wilderness, to revere the
immortal words of Thomas Jefferson, 'All men
are created equal; endowed by their Creator
with certain inalienable rights; that among these
are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness;
that governments derive their just powers from
the consent of the governed; and that, whenever
any form of government becomes destructive of
these ends, it is the right of the people to alter
or abolish it.' I believe the inspiration of Liberty
was born with every wise woman's existence.
Certain am I that it has grown with her growth
and strengthened with her strength; and I well
remember the electric thrills that stirred me in
every sentient fiber of my nature, when, as a
child, the heroic struggles of the revolutionary

[Column 2]
fathers and mothers, who freely pledged and
freely gave their lives, their fortunes and their 
sacred honor that Columbia might be free, were
taught in our schools. The Constitution ex-
pressly provides that every citizen shall be guar-
anteed the equal protection of the laws. And
yet, Mr. President, one-half of the people are
taxed without representation and governed with-
out consent. This government is not a democ-
racy, nor a republic. It is a government of one-
half of the people by the other half, instead. It
is an aristocracy of sex, wherein one-half of the
citizens enjoy a monopoly of the rights and im-
munities which are denied to the other half. It
is not necessary for me to insult the intelligence
of an august Senate like this to make the ex-
planation that the generic term men, as applied
to the inalienable rights of the human family,
includes women. Men are always willing to
admit this fact when women's taxes are due, or
when a woman breaks a law that all persons of
her sex are denied a voice in making. The man
has never yet lived who has said of a woman
convicted of crime, 'May it please the Court and
the jury, I represent this woman. Punish me!'
Women complain that they are rated in law
with idiots, insane persons, criminals and China-
men. Time was when they had the negro for
company; but modern legislation has reached
out its hand and lifted the colored citizen upon
the high pedestal of equality before the law;
and to-day he is a United States Marshal, a Sen-
ator or a Representive in Congress; a law-maker,
before whose mandate your wives and mothers
must bow while they proclaim the lesson taught
by your government—that taxation without rep-
resentation is tyranny. We ask you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and gentlemen of the Senate, to take the
necessary steps to submit this resolution for
amending the Constitution to the votes of the
sons of women. We believe that you will do
your duty. The eyes of the world are upon you.
Oregon has already written her name higher
than that of any other State in the Union in
her recognition of equal rights fer the mothers
of men. Her legislation has been liberal, be-
cause her sons have been free. Let the grand
picture of the Father of his Country beam upon
you to-night with an inspiration of irresistible
power. You are making history. The same
spirit of liberty that presided over the destinies
of Washington a hundred years ago is presiding
over the destinies of the people of Oregon to-day.
It is in your power to write the name of your
young and growing commonwealth yet higher—
aye, the highest of all in the mighty constella-
tion of the United States of America. It is in
your power to place the honor upon the brow of
Oregon that alone can accrue to the State which
shall take the lead in this grand movement for
the enfranchisement of the mothers of men.
The blue air of the hoary mountains has an-
swered back to the pellucid atmosphere of the
billowy ocean, and filled the men and women of 
this grand young State with the electric fires of
an exalted patriotism. Our people have inhaled
the spirit of liberty with their very breath. Let
them give Oregon an opportunity to lead the
van in the great galaxy of the States that will
surely fall into line when you shall have set the
grand example, and your descendants shall see
her shine in the history of the centuries to come
with a luster that shall dim the glory of a Massa-
chusetts, a North Carolina or an Old Virginia.
Mr. President, I know that this is not the time
or place for discussing the pros and cons of this
woman movement. These will be considered in
their proper place before the people after the ac-
tion of this Honorable Body, for which we now
pray, shall have made it possible for them to
give or withhold their votes upon it. Thanking
you, gentlemen of the Senate, for the high honor
you have conferred upon me in the name of wo-
manhood, in listening thus profoundly to my
feeble utterances, I rest our case in your hands."
	SENATOR HUMPHREY: "Mr. President, * *
I am in favor of granting the right of suffrage
to the women of Oregon. They have earned it
and are entitled to it. The gentleman from Polk
assures us that his wife is better than a China-
man. I cordially agree with him in that. She
is not only better than a Chinaman, but she is
better than he is. He says that women ought
to raise the voters and teach them how to vote.
This they do already; and they have been at
work at it for the past hundred years. And it is 
folly to say that a woman who is capable of in-
structing and influencing voters is not fit to vote
herself. Many of them are much wiser than
we are, Mr. President; and all of them have the
same physical and mental necessities that we
possess, and the same inherent, inalienable right


to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Women
are not complaining about natural laws. So far
as I know, no woman who wants the ballot
wishes to be a man; and, even should they wish
to be men in our stead, the Senator from Polk
needn't be afraid of the consequences, for there
is a higher law than man can make, or woman
can break, that settles that question. The Sena-
tor isn't very good-looking, aud it is just possible
<l-16klng add’="" it="" is="" just;="" possibly'="" thath'6="" m&y'="" nor,="" get="" .thevqtelbt'wdm.en.tp="" rbi="" turn="" him="" to="" .office;="" but="" i="" haye="" no="" iear="" on="" that="" score;="" shah="" vote="" for="" the="" resolution.”'="" senator="" hainis;="" “mr.,president,="" earl="" of="" aj'rlie,="" ffphj.="" thdhingdom.pf="" $ritmh,="" inakliff="" oregon="" a.="" visitr.="" !ouj="" are="" ,aixe,?that.="" a="" viast'ambuht;="" hcotiph="" capital="" mginviited="" amohk’iisand="" that'many="" our'greatesteh="" ter-="" prise3flfor'tfan9ik)rtation'="" ’jn="" jiands’.of="" efcjghipd's!="" bjebte'="" there-is="" howa="" jtfoj&fln="" progress="" for;cdttipg="" capad="" 'through="" ‘the="" isthmus="" pahatna,="" aha="" 5y&="" to,="" be,="" hackednncipili="">that he may not get the votes of women to re-
turn him to office; but I have no fear on that
score. I shall vote for the resolution."
	SENATOR HAINES; "Mr. President, the Earl
of Airlie, from the kingdom of Great Britain, is
making Oregon a visit. You are aware that a
vast amount of Scotch capital is being invested
among us, and that many of our greatest enter-
prises for transportation are in the hands of
England's subjects. There is now a project in
progress for cutting a canal through the Isthmus
of Panama, and it is to be backed principally by
English capital. And it does seem to me that
if Queen Victoria can manage, with unparalleled
success, the greatest financial schemes of the
world, and preside with becoming wisdom and
proper dignity overt the kingdom that controls a
Gladstone, or a Beaconsfield, the women of Ore-
gon ought to be allowed to vote. Sir, the day is
not far distant when a woman—probably the
lady who has addressed us to-night—will occupy
your seat as President of this Senate Chamber.
And why not? May not a woman of Oregon oc-
cupy a chair like that, if Queen Victoria can oc-
cupy a throne? We shall be spared the disgrace-
ful scenes that mar the good name of the Federal
Congress when women take their proper place
as co-workers with men in making laws. I
shall vote for the resolution."


