WOMEN ARE TAX PAYERS.

	Are women not tax payers? In looking over
the "News" of the 29th Sept., my eye rested on
disfranchisement of Women; in reading the
paragraphs what was my surprise and indigna-
tion towards our so called "Liberal" citizens;
shall I call them? No; they cannot be liberal
after enjoying the franchise for ten years, at
this late date to wish to deprive us of our
rights: not tax payers? Ah! I think we are very
heavy tax payers. Does not every wife own
property in connection with her husband? I
think so. Does not her labor help to make
that property? Does she not stand by her hus-
band as a help, and rear the boys to work out
the poll tax? Yes we do, and often our lot is
hard and tedious, are we not always ready to
advise and counsel for the best, and willing to
suffer with our husbands sons, fathers? Yes we
are, and lend a helping hand when needed


Have these would be "liberal" men a mother
a wife a sister? It would seem not; or do they
think Mormon women so weak-minded that
we will not try to defend ourselves? We ask
for the justice and freedom that belong to
American citizens, and wish to vote for men of
integrity and those that will stand by the con-
stitution of our country.
	Women not tax payers, indeed! but very few
are not. We pay our taxes with our husbands.
Many women own property of their own; 'tis
but a plea, a plan to hurl another shot, but
they will miss as they always have; and it only
helps to fill up the pages of the past; we will
see who will be the winner, God is at the
helm sisters! let us stand up for our rights and
defend our position on this question intel-
ligently and honorably. Let us be united and
humble and trust to providence, and we will
see that good will be the result. We will rely
on the strength of Israel's God, while our
enemies rely on their own strength; and they
will fall, while we will stand. Let us be firm
and stand up nobly in our own defence, and
not be unjustly deprived of our lawful rights.
						JANE C. JOHNSON.
	Johnson, Kane Co. Utah.


