BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"On the 21st Colonel Sconce and two other
leading men from Ray County came to see us,
desiring to know what our intentions were, for
said he, "I see that there is an Almighty power
that protects this people, for I started from
Richmond, Ray County, with a company of
armed men, having a fixed determination to
destroy you, but was kept back by the storm
and was not able to reach you." When he
came into camp he was seized with such a
trembling that he was obliged to sit down in
order to compose himself. When he desired
to know what our intentions were, Brother Jo-
seph arose and began to speak, and the power
of God rested upon him. He gave a relation
of the sufferings of our people in Jackson
County, and also many of our persecutions, and
what we had suffered from our enemies for our
religion; and that we had come one thousand
miles to assist our brethren, to bring them

[Column 2]
clothing, and to reinstate them upon their own
lands; that we had no intention to molest or
injure any people, but only to administer to the
wants of our afflicted brethren; and that the
evil reports which were circulated about us
were false, and were circulated by our ene-
mies to get us destroyed.
	"After he had got through,	*	*	the power
of which melted them into compassion, they
arose and offered him their hands, and said
they would use their influence to allay the ex-
citement which everywhere prevailed against
us. They accordingly went forth and rode
days and night to pacify the people. They
wept, because they saw we were a poor, afflicted
people, and our intentions were pure. The
next day the Sheriff of that county, named
Neil Gilliam, came to deliver a short address
to us. We formed into companies and marched
into a grove a little distance from the camp,
and there formed ourselves into a circle, and
sat down upon the ground.
	"Previous to Mr. Gilliam's address he said:
"I have heard much concerning Joseph Smith,
and I have been informed that he is in your
camp; if he is here, I would like to see him."
Brother Joseph arose and said, "I am the
man." This was the first time he was made
known during the journey of one thousand
miles. Mr. Gilliam then arose and gave us
some instructions concerning the manners and
customs of the people, their disposition, &c.,
and what course we should take in order to
gain their favor and protection.	*	*	*
	"Being in want of salt, I took it upon me to
go to some of the inhabitants and get some;
Brother Cyrus Smalling took his rifle and went
along with me. After passing through a path
enclosed by hazle brush, about two miles from
the camp, I discovered a deer standing across
the path; I made motions to Bro. Smalling,
and he, drawing up his rifle over my shoulder,
which served for a rest, fired and hit the deer;
it ran a few rods and fell. We cut a pole, and
fastening the deer on it, got it over our shoul-
ders and carried it along to the camp, when we
dressed it and divided it among the different
companies, and had an excellent feast.
	"Here Brothers Ezra Thayer and Thomas
Hayes were taken sick with the cholera. We
left them there, and also Bro. Joseph Hancock,
who had been taken with the cholera during
the storm, and who was the first person attacked
with it. Brother Joseph called the camp to-
gether, and told us that in consequence of the
disobedience of some who had not been willing
to listen to his words, but had been rebellious,
God had decreed that sickness should come
upon us.	*	*	I am sorry, but I cannot
help it! When he spoke these things it pierced
me like a dart, having a testimony that so it
would be.
	"On the morning of the 24th we started for
Liberty, Clay County, where our brethren were
residing who had been driven from Jackson
County.	*	*	*	When we were within five
or six miles of Liberty, General Atchison and
several other gentlemen met us, desiring that
we would not go to Liberty, as the feelings of
the people in that place were much enraged
against us. Changing our course and bearing
to the left, we pursued our way across a prairie;
then passing through a wood we came to Bro.
Sidney Gilbert's, where we camped on the bot-
tom of Rush Creek, in a field belonging to
Brother Burgess.
	"The destroyer came upon us, as we had
been warned by the servant of God. About
12 o'clock at night we began to hear the cries
of those who were seized. Even those on
guard fell, with their guns in their hands, to
the ground, and we had to exert ourselves con-
siderably to attend to the sick, for they were
stricken down on every hand. Thus it con-
tinued till morning, when the camp was sepa-

[Column 3]
rated into several small bands, and were dis-
persed among the brethren.
	"I was left at the camp in company with Jo-
seph B. Noble, John D. Parker, Luke Johnson
and Warren Ingalls, in care of those who were
sick. We stayed with and prayed for them,
hoping they would recover; but all hope was
lost, for about six o'clock in the evening John
S. Carter expired. When the cholera first
broke out he was the first who went forward to
rebuke it, when he was immediately seized by
it, and was the first who died. In about thirty
minutes after, Seth Hitchcock died; and it ap-
peared as though we must all sink under the
power of the destroyer. We were not able to
obtain lumber to make them coffins, but were
under the necessity of rolling them up in their
blankets and burying them in that manner;
we placed them on a sled, which was drawn by
a horse about half a mile, and buried them in
a little bluff by the side of a small branch of
Rush Creek; this was accomplished by dark.
	"Our hopes were that no more would die;
but while we were uniting in prayer with up-
lifted hands to God, we looked at our beloved
brother, Eber Wilcox, who was gasping his
last. At this scene my feelings were beyond
expression. Those only who witnessed it can
realize anything of the extent of our sufferings;
and I felt to weep and pray to the Lord that
he would spare my life, that I might behold
my dear family again. I felt to covenant with
my God and my brethren, never to commit an-
other sin while I lived. We felt to sit and
weep over our brethren, and so great was our
sorrow that we could have washed them with
our tears. To realize that they had traveled a
thousand miles through so much fatigue to lay
down their lives for their brethren increased
our love for them.
	"Brothers Brigham and Joseph Young came
from Liberty and assisted us to bury Bro. Wil-
cox; their presence gave us much consolation.
About twelve o'clock at night we placed Bro.
Wilcox on a small sled, which we drew to the
place of interment, with one hand hold of the
rope, and in the other we bore our firelocks for
our defense. While two were digging the
grave, lhe others stood with their arms to de-
fend them.
	"While Brother Luke Johnson was digging,
the cholera attacked him with cramping and
blindness. Brother Brigham laid hold of him
and pulled him out of the grave, and shook
him about, talked to him, and prayed for him,
and exhorted him to jump about and exercise
himself, when it would leave him for a few mo-
ments; then it would attack him again, and
thus we had the greatest difficulty to keep the
destroyer from laying us low. Soon after we
returned, another brother was taken from our
little band; thus it continued, until five out of
ten were taken away.
	"It was truly affecting to see the love mani-
fested among the brethren for each other dur-
ing this affliction. Brother Joseph, seeing the
sufferings of his brethren, stepped forward to
rebuke the destroyer. but was immediately
seized with the disease, and I assisted him a
short distance from the place, when it was with
difficulty he could walk. All that kept our
enemies from us was the fear of the destroyer
which the Lord had sent among us. After
burying these five brethren I was seized by the
hand of the destroyer as I went into the woods
to pray; I was in[---]tly struck blind, and saw
no way whereby I [-]ould free myself from the
disease, only to exert myself by jumping and
threshing myself about until my sight returned
to me and my blood began to circulate in my
veins; I started and ran some distance, and by
this means, through the help of God I was en-
abled to extricate myself from the grasp of
death.

To be continued.


