MUSIC.

	What a charm the very name has, it thrills
the soul and fills it with gladdening thoughts.
Who can tell how many homes have been made
bright and cheerful by the sweet songs sung
therein. Music is a mediator for all our
thoughts and feelings. It has praises of God
and his works, accents of joy, murmurings of
grief, whisperings of love and in itself it is
divine. Who does not love to wander by a
flowing stream and listen to the charmed sound
of its crystal waters as they gently glide towards
the ocean carrying new notes to the lonely
siren who reigns as a nightingale among the
waters. All nature is filled with music.
	Can there be a living soul that does not love
to wander through a forest where the while
air resounds with the merry songs of birds.
Sweet songsters of the grove how joyous you are
and what a halo of happiness you cast on all
around. Oh pretty, happy creatures, living in
the tree tops, soaring to heaven, who does not
rejoice with you in your pleasant life, pray tell
us are your songs not praises to Him—who
gave you such a life? How pleasant it is, to sit
around the fire on a winter night, and guile
the hours away with pleasant songs, or to sit
under Luna's fair rays on a summer evening,
after the little birds have sung themselves to
sleep, and fill the air with joyous sounds.
How blessed is the one who has the gift of
song. Oh could she but feel the sadness of a
heart that has it not, she would forever sing
praises to her Maker for this glorious gift. I
wonder if the one so endowed ever thinks
how many moments of pleasure she gives to all
who hear her, or how great a comforter she is
to herself.


'Tis pleasant to walk along the streets and
stop now and then to hear the voice of some
sweet maiden singing to the family circle, or
'tis enchanting to listen to the midnight min-
strel sounding praises to his lady love or 'tis
grand to hear the solemn organ chanting praises
to the Lord, yet 'tis most sweet to hear a
mother lull her little ones to sleep.
	There is scarcely a home in all the land that
has not been made happy by the sound of music,
and when a home is bereft of its songster, 'tis
like a cage without a bird or almost like a
man without a soul. Every one should try to
cultivate a taste and talent for music, for those
who possess it have the power of shedding joy
and happiness on all around; and we should
all try to fulfill the commands of the Creator
by praising Him with the lute and the harp in
the song and in the dance.
[handwritten] Annie [-] Camelia.
