HOME AFFAIRS.

	SISTERS E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. Young
went to Lehi and attended the annual meeting
of the Relief Society on Wednesday, October 27.
These two sisters will probably start for St.
George in a few days, visiting the different set-
tlements by the way, and meeting with the So-
cieties wherever practicable.

	SISTERS E. R. Snow and B. W. Smith left the
city Sept. 23, to attend the Ladies Conference at
Richfield,and visit other towns in Sevier County.
They were absent ten days and held twenty
meetings, all well attended. The brethren and
sisters received them joyfully and no doubt ap-
preciated their wise and excellent counsel and
instruction.
	WE return our sincere thanks to the little
girls at Chester, for the beautiful wreath of hair
we received from them. The wreath contains a
lock of hair from the head of each of the officers
and members of the Primary Association, nicely
arranged, and the colors artistically blended. It
will be a handsome ornament for the office, and
very precious to us as the gift and workmanship
of those little girls, who are learning to beautify
with the work of their own hands.

[Column 2]
	The Y. L. M. I. A., of the 11th Ward held its
annual meeting Oct. 10th, that being the ninth
anniversary of its organization. The assembly
was large, including Bishop A. McRae,
Counselor J. H. Felt, Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S.
Taylor, S. M. Haywood, S. M. Kimball, H. T.
King, E. Howard and C. C. Cannon. Pres. M.
Freeze announced a short programme and the ex-
ercises began with reading the minutes of the
last annual meeting. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp made
a short and very appropriate speach and read an
original poem, Miss Amy Penrose recited
"The Little Hero" in a most pleasing manner.
An interesting essay by Coun. Lillie Freeze was
read, each of the lady visitors made remarks of
a very instructive and encouraging nature, cal-
culated to inspire all with greater diligence in
the spiritual progress of woman. At the close
of the meeting the assembly repaired to the
adjoining room and partook of refreshments
nicely arranged by a committee of young ladies.
Thus closed another of our delightful reunions.
										L.

	In company with Mrs. Zina D. Young we
visited Morgan and attended the Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations of that Stake. Some
changes were made in the officers, and a central
organization formed for the Primary Associa-
tions of that Stake. The sisters there are doing
well and trying to improve in every good thing.
Pres. W. G. Smith, Bishops and many other
brethren attended the meetings. Seven meet-
ings were held in the three days we were ab-
sent. The sisters of the County have a granary
nearly completed, built of concrete, with shin-
gled roof; it is 18 x 22 feet in the clear. They
have been very energetic to get so much done,
and other sisters may take courage by their ex-
ample of industry and economy. While we
were at the residence of Bro. Samuel Francis,
the Morgan Brass Band gave us a cheering sere-
nade. There were ten instruments, and the boys,
who are all young, under the able instruction
and leadership of Brother Bull, are progressing
finely. Their leader was associated with Ballo's
Band in the early days of Utah. It was quite
a surprise, but most truly acceptable. When we
were leaving, the children came in crowds to
bid us goodby, and sang some sweet little hymns
at the depot.
	THE Tenth Quarterly Conference of Davis
Stake Relief Society was held at Farmington
Oct. 15 1880. Sister Prescendia Kimball and Zina
D. H. Young, of Salt Lake attended. Prest-
Wm. R. Smith and Counselor Anson Call of
Davis Stake Presidency, and others of the local
brethren were present. Much good and wise
counsel was given in a pleasing and instructive
manner; many subjects of interest were dwelt
upon. Kindness,and gentleness,characterizing all
that was said and done.
	Immediately after the close of this Conference,
the Primary Associations held a Conference.
The remarks of Sisters Kimball, Young, Rogers,
et. al. were alike instructive and enteresting.
	The children merit the approbation they re-
ceived from their teachers.
	President Rogers is justly proud of the affec-
tion they manifest for those who have labored so
faithfully in their interest. The officers were
set apart by President Smith Counselor Call and
Bishop Hess, as follows: Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers,
President; Mrs. Julia Hess and Lucy A. Clark,
Counselors; Miss Sarah E. Richards, Secretary;
Mrs. Annie Wilcox, Treasurer. Officers of the
Davis Stake Primary Association.
	M. E. RICHARDS, Secretary Relief Society,
Davis Stake.
	ON Monday, October 18, there was a select
gathering of invited guests, all ladies; at the


residence of Mrs. Marian R. Pratt, The after-
noon was spent in cheerful, social converse, and
about six o'clock Apostle Orson Pratt and seven-
teen ladies sat down to dinner. The conversa-
tion at the table was a spiritual feast. Brother
Pratt referred to his early history in the Church
and to many wonderful events of that period,
with which several of the elderly ladies were
conversant. After dinner the conversation con-
tinued in much the same strain. Later in the
evening Sister E. A. Whitney sang a song of
Zion, and Sister Zina D. Young gave the inter-
pretation. It was a psalm of praise and rejoic-
ing. Miss Rintha Pratt sang one or two charm-
ing little melodies, and Willard Weihe and sev-
eral other musicians played a few choice pieces
in a lively manner. There were six instruments,
and the effect of the music was inspiring. The
musicians went out upon the lawn, and the
effect was more delightful still. Some of the
young people were dancing on the lawn by
moonlight. It was indeed quite a temptation to
one fond of this beautiful recreation. This visit
will be long remembered. The charming and
soul-inspiring words of the Apostle, Mother
Whitney's song, the music and the sweet inter-
course of old-time friends were indeed soul-satis-
fying.


