SCHOOL SUFFRAGE IN NEW YORK.

	To-morrow the election will be held in all the
precincts of the Territory,and the People's Party
will cast their votes for the Delegate to Congress
from Utah. Notwithstanding the attempt
which was made to take the franchise from the
women of this Territory, woman will have the
privilege of the ballot, and thus help to swell
the numbers of the People's Party, who would
no doubt, without the votes of women, be largely
in the majority. The suffrage for women is be-
ing more extensively discussed as time rolls on,
and already much has been done in this direc-
tion, that thirty years ago seemed impossible.
There is a bond of sympathy which unites wo-
men on this subject that is strong as iron and
will not give way, though opinions on other sub-
jects materially differ. Many of the leading
women suffragists have expressed themselves on
the recent attempt to disfranchise the women of
Utah, in such a way as to give strength to the
preconceived opinion that they would, were it
necessary, wrestle to help maintain the posi-
tion which the women of Utah have had secured
to them for the last ten years, and which rights
have been preserved sacred and inviolate.
	Mrs. Lewis, editor of Woman's Words, Phila-
delphia, says, under the heading "Disfranchis-
ing Women:"
	"Another effort is being made in Utah to dis-
franchise the women of that Territory, as we
learn by a dispatch from Mrs. Wells; a man-
damus having been issued by the Supreme Court
bearing on the question. We do not believe it
will succeed. Liberty takes no step backward,
and when the elective franchise is once exer-
cised, no power can take it away without a revo-
lution. It is one of the alarms, we judge, de-
signed to help the Democratic Party. If so,
they will soon find plenty of business on hand
in soothing the terrorized voters of the South."
Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, editor of the Na-
tional Citizen, Syracuse, New York, has an edi-
torial on the same subject; it is entitled "Attack
upon Vested Rights," "Woman's Cowardly
Enemies," &c. Mrs. Gage is a powerful writer,
and she takes this opportunity to impress upon
women everywhere the necessity of securing a
constitutional amendment. She closes with the
following paragraph:
	"Let this attempt to deprive the women of
Utah of their political rights, nerve the heart
and brain of every woman to more strenuous
effort for a sixteenth amendment which shall
recognize the rights of all United States citizens
to the ballot. When once this is gained, no iso-
lated state or territory can strike such a blow at
suffrage rights."
	Mesdames Gage, Blake and Slocum have been

[Column 2]
actively engaged for some time past in lecturing
to help educate women politically and preparing
the field for the women of New York that they
might exercise the privilege of the ballot given
them Feb. 12, ult., on the school question, at the
election, which was held about the middle of
October. Mrs. Blake in a letter to the National
Citizen said she had canvassed ten counties;
that at several points women were nominated
to serve as trustees and the sequel of the election
proves that Mrs. Blake was right in predicting
they would be elected. Ladies took their own
carriages out for voters, others stood at the door
and distributed votes, and received at the polling
places. Mrs. Gage sat in a Justice's office with
the inspectors to watch the deposits. She was
strongly urged to run as Trustee but refused
for lack of time, however a young energetic
woman got the position proffered to her. Mrs.
G. says when the time drew near for the voting
of women in the eleven thousand school districts
of the State, the men began to grow uneasy;
but the verdiet is that "so quiet a school election
was never known." They had some opposition
from State Superintendent of schools, Neil Gil-
more, who published a circular and letter; with
a view of intimidating women. If Mr. Gilmore
does not "mend his manners," in this regard,
these selfsame ladies will give him just such a
game as they did Lucius Robinson.
	The women of Utah, appreciating as they do
the privilege of the franchise, will rejoice in the
eminent success of this vexed question in the
Empire State, and also in all the extended rec-
ognition of woman as an intelligent, responsible
being, a creature of mind and soul.
	The women of this Territory should not forget
election day, and not only go forward and vote,
appreciating the opportunity, but stimulate oth-
ers to do so, and assist all in their power to help
the aged and infirm, that they may have an op-
portunity of casting their votes, that the Peo-
ple's Party may be faithfully represented by
both sexes. Show by good works that the ballot
is not lightly held, or ignorantly handled. Study
to become better informed upon all the subjects
of law and government, that the influence of
woman may at all times and in all places be that
which will tell for good; that men may seek
women for counsel, and mutual benefit and so-
cial and political elevation be the ultimate result
of woman's political emancipation.


[Column 1]
