				MARY A. ELLIS, Sec'y.

	Minutes of Conference of Y. L; M. I. A., of
Bear Lake Stake, held in St. Charles Aug.
29th, 1880, at 2 P. M. President Nancy Pug-
mire presiding. Present of the Stake presi-
dency, James H. Hart, Bishop Hunt and presi-
dency of Relief Societies. Meeting opened by
singing, and prayer by Elder J. O. Stewart.
Singing "Arise my Soul arise." Roll was
called and minutes of previous Conference
read and approved. The Secretary then read
the Statistical and Financial reports, showing
an increase of members and funds since last
Conference. Verbal reports were then called
for by the President from the various associa-
tions, all of which gave unmistakable evidence
that the young ladies interests were in the as-
cendant, and although somewhat isolated, and
deprived of many advantages enjoyed in a
more thickly populated district of country, they
are wide awake to the necessity of using all the
means and opportunities to advance themselves
in the scale of intelligence; thereby fitting them-
selves for the grand future that awaits them.
	Counselor Alice Rich, urged upon the young
ladies the necessity of devoting their
leisure moments to the perusal of the
Church works, in order to become
familiar with the principles of our religion;
so if called upon to expound or defend
its principles they could do so understandingly,
and thus prove to the world, that we possess a
greater amount of intelligence than has been
accredited us. President Nancy Pugmire,
wished the young ladies to continue editing
manuscript, papers in their Associations, as it
unfolded a wide field for thought, and by con-
tinued efforts in that direction as a natural
consequence their minds would expand, and
they would become greater and wiser; eluci-
dated with great force the many opportunities
afforded us to acquire knowledge, compared
with those which our parents had. Wished
the presidents to use their means and influence
in helping towards the erection of a high
school in Paris, and thus advance the educa-
tional interests of the Stake. Told the young
ladies to be considerate of their parents, in
their declining years, and sometimes sacrifice
their feelings in their favor, and then when
memory reverts back what a source of comfort

[Column 2]
and satisfaction it will bring. Counseler Annie
Cook spoke very earnestly in regard to the
young ladies patronizing home industries, said
this was one avenue open for action. that we
had the material within our reach for the man-
ufacture of home made hats, and we had sisters
of experience among us who were willing to in-
struct us, so there was no reason to prevent our
going into the business more extensively. Now
that the season for gleaning was fast approach-
ing, she hoped the girls would do all they could
to store away grain that would otherwise be
wasted; knew the young ladies had been or-
ganized for the accomplishment of a great and
good purpose; so let us labor diligently.
President Lindsay felt to congratulate the
young sisters in the progress they had made,
felt confident that Sister Pugmire and Coun-
selors had the spirit of their calling upon them
by the advancement they had made, counseled
the young not to give too much of their time
and means to outward adornment, but rather
use it to the building up of God's kingdom, up-
on which we would be reaping an interest
throughout the countless ages of eternity.
Continue to cultivate your minds for this is an
age of progression, and much is expected at
your hands. Singing by the Choir, "In the
City of our Lord."
	Benediction by Brother George Passey.
Meeting adjourned for six months. L. M.
Hart, Sec'y.
	Statistical and Financial reports of the Pri-
mary Associations of the Bear Lake Stake, from
March 1st, 1880, Aug. 28th, 1880.
	Statistical; officers, 53; members 622; total
officers and members, 675; meetings held, 237;
average attendance, 274.
	Financial: Receipts in cash, $1,80; property,
22,23; disbursments, to missionaries, property,
$6,69; temple, $9,44;books,cash 1.05; amount on
hand: cash, $75; property, 37,11.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, Pres.
