VISITING TOUR.

	Mrs. E. S. Taylor well known here as one of
the leading women in Israel, left this city Aug.
5th, to visit her friends in the East, and meet
her husband Elder George H. Taylor returning
from his mission to England. She traveled to
Chicago in company with some acquaintances,
where she took a branch of the North Western
Railroad and went to near Milwaukee, staying
about a week with relatives in Wisconsin; who
were delighted to see her and anxious to hear all
about Utah and the people. Leaving the West
she journeyed to the State of New York, visiting
Niagra Falls on her route, admiring its mag-
nificent and wonderful beauty, as all strangers
invariably do. She stopped in Rochester where
she was warmly welcomed by numerous rela-
tives and friends. There she visited all the
places of note, and reports it the most beautiful
city for cleanliness, shrubbery, flowers and also
in many other respects of any city she visited
while absent from home. Most of her time
there was spent at a country seat on Lake On-
tario, situated in a very romantic spot,and while
there she enjoyed herself very much in family
gatherings got up for her especial benefit, social
parties out-doors and in,boat rides, sails by moon-
light and pleasure parties of almost all kinds.
At one of these gatherings there were twenty-five
relatives mostly cousins; and thus the hours
passed swiftly by.
	One or two of the Rochester papers gave her
rather lengthy notices, spoke highly of her as an
intelligent educated lady, and gave a brief
synopsis of her views upon marriage and her
family affairs. Refered to her husband as a pros-
perous business man and alluded to his European
mission. Mrs. Taylor's relatives introduced her
into the best society where she had ample op-
portunity to converse with an intelligent class of
people.
	From Rochester her route was to Utica where
she visited places of interest, the one which at-
tracted her attention most was the New York
State Insane Asylum. It contains six hundred
inmates. The building is in the form of a court
and the grounds are laid out in the most sym-
metrical order, adorned with shade trees, shrub-
bery, vines and flowers and walks, all complete.
Everything has been arranged for the amuse-
ment of the inmates who are able to participate
in out door exercises, such as croquet, base-ball;
quoits and such like sports. Inside is a very
fine library, views and sterescope, piano and
other musical instruments in fact all that would
contribute to make a home pleasent. The most
perfect order prevails throughout every depart-
ment of the house and grounds. Leaving Utica
she passed through the Oneida community and
traveled down through Courtlandt and Shenan-
doah counties; all along are little villages and

[Column 2]
small quaint country towns nestled down among
the hills. Mrs. Taylor was visiting the country
after twenty-one years absence. Many scenes
and incidents were brought back to recollection
that she had nearly forgotten; which were
pleasant to revert to. She pursuded this route to
Newark, New Jersey, where she spent about four
weeks among relatives meantime mak-
ing frequent visits to New York and the
surrounding country, visited Central Park,Green-
wood, and Coney Island; spent one lovely Sab-
bath day there, when there were twenty-one
thousand bathing in the sea; Gilmore's Band
playing at Manhattan, and another at Brighton
Beach. It seemed as if the Sabbath was en-
tirely ignored by these pleasure seekers. She
went up the Hudson River to Haverstraw, the
place where she was married many years ago.
Mrs. Taylor tells us she wanted very much to
bring the Hudson River and Lake Ontario home
with her.
	At Newark she visited the Insane Asylum of
Essex County, which contained two hundred
and seventy inmates; they also have belonging
to that county eighty insane persons in the State
Asylum. Mrs. Taylor had every opportunity to
speak of our people socially and politically, as
well as religiously. She was at all times cour-
teously treated by those she met, and many in-
quiries made of her concerning her people and
the country generally.
	While fifteen miles out of New York a tele-
gram came that the Steamer Nevada would
reach harbor the next morning; as she crossed
the Hoboken ferry she saw the steamer sailing
up the bay. She had been separated from her
husband nearly two years—it is n[--]dless to des-
cribe the joyful meeting. Mr. and Mrs. Taylor
remained in the vicinity of New York about ten
days longer, visiting friends and notable places.
They traveled westward by the Alleghany route,
the scenery at that season being most charming,
the heavy foliage exquisitely tinted, and the
weather lovely. At Chicago they met Miss Ida
Cook returning home, and as there were several
returning missionaries, the party was a very
pleasant one. Mr. George S. Taylor met his
father and mother at Evanston, and other
friends were waiting in Ogden. They arrived
here on the evening of October 2d, satisfied with
the trip, but glad to be at home once more.


[Column 1]

