MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH:

	Dear Sister:—Saturday, August 14, I started,
in company with Bishop Hunt and his daugh-
ter, who is President of the Young Ladies'
Associations of this Stake and Stake Secretary
for the Relief Society; she is a young lady of
fine ability, speaks the Spanish language, and
sings several songs beautifully in Spanish; we
also had the company of Brother Thomas West,
Superintendent of the Sunday Schools of this
Stake, and Brother Rogers, President of the
Young Men's Associations; we traveled some
two hundred miles, holding meetings and or-
ganizing.
	We held joint meetings in connection with
the brethren, in consequence of all having a
desire to do so; there was a general tnrn out,
and a great deal of interest manifested by the
brethren and sisters. They felt well, and the
Spirit of God was poured out upon us to en-
courage us.
	On our tour we had the pleasure of camping
ing out three nights; we enjoyed songs and
sweet music from the voices of my son Joseph
and Miss Ida Hunt, who took their guitars
along, which was a treat to the Saints where
we visited. Miss Nannie Freeman, niece of the
well known Bishop Smoot, and Secretary of
the Young Ladies, was one of the company.
	We expect to hold our first Quarterly Con-
ference at Snowflake on the 25th and 26th of
September, 1880, when the secretaries will
make out reports and send to the Secretary.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball. The Primary Associa-
tions are not yet organized.
	Any counsel you may think proper to give


relative to the organizations of the sisters in
this Stake of Zion, will be thankfully received.
The subjects we have laid before the sisters are
the training and taking care of their children,
the importance of establishing home industries,
and keeping out of our settlements outside ele-
ments, Babylon and her fashions, the making
of our own hats and storing of grain, sustaining
the Priesthood, subscribing for and reading the
EXPONENT, so as to be posted in relation to
the counsels of our sisters who are appointed
to preside. 
	God has blessed us abundantly in this land;
the hills and valleys wherever we go are cov-
ered with a mantle of green, and the fields
with waving grain; the beasts of the field are
made to rejoice, and the everlasting hills echo
the praises of our God, because of the blessings
of the Holy Priesthood that have come upon
the land.
	I must say before I close that I am not only
encouraged but delighted with the sisters whose
acquaintance I have made in this Stake. Bro. 
Jesse N's family is worthy of imitation, also
the families of Bro. Hunt and Bro. Hatch,
whose daughters have learned the Spanish lan-
guage. We desire an interest in the prayers
of the Saints. With love to yourself and
council, I am as ever devoted to the interest
of Zion.
