AMONG THE GRAVES.

	Who is there that cannot sympatize with
us when we talk of spending an hour among
the graves? Who has not been called to follow
some loved one to his last resting place? And
if, perchance, there should be any (few indeed
their number) who have not been called to
consign those near and dear to them to the si-
lent recesses of the tomb, yet have they visited
the house of affliction, to comfort the mourner,
to pour the balm of sympathy and consolation
into the sorrowing hearts of the bereaved ones,
to weep with those that weep, and with willing
hands assist in performing the last rites for the
departed—so sad, and yet so necessary! Then
we join the train of mourners, and follow the
remains to their last resting place, and feel the
heart pang that all must experience when the
first earth drops on the narrow abode of those
so loved; the earth closes over them, and we
see them no more. Perhaps we return a few
times, perchance to scatter a few flowers, or
raise some monument to the memory of the
dead. Then we stand among the graves, and
ponder, and seek to penetrate the mystery of
the tomb, and of our being. Lying all around


us are the trappings and spoils of the grim
monster, Death—from the infant of a day to
the aged patriarch; the maiden in the first
blush of womanhood the youth, just entering
on the joys and ambitions of life; the mother,
who is cut off in the midst of her usefulness;
the strong man in his prime, the man of wis-
dom, and the man who has spent his days in
sin and sold himself for naught. The strength
of the strongest has become weak, and all have
succumbed to the power of the great destroyer,
Death.
	And is there no escape from thee, thou
mighty Conqueror? Must our eyes ever dwell
on the darkness of the tomb? Is there no
hope? O, yes; for when we raise our tearful
eyes, and in anguish of spirit breathe a silent
prayer to the Father of mercy to heal our
broken hearts and send comfort to us in our af-
fliction, the sweet and consoling influence of
the Spirit of the Lord descends upon us, and
we are enabled to leave the darkness of the
tomb, and to understand that the sting of death
has been taken away, and the darkness of the
grave been conquered; for heaven-born Faith
raises her glorious pinion and soars aloft to
where sits the Redeemer, who was tempted in
all things like unto us, yet without sin. Who
broke the bonds of death and the grave, and
ever liveth to make intercession for us who
love Him and keep his commandments.
	And glorious Hope casts her anchor sure
and steadfast within the veil of the promises,
judging Him faithful, Who has promised, know-
ing that He doeth all things well. And there
must needs be a space between the time of
death and the resurrection; and mighty Love,
stronger than death, casteth out all fear, and
anticipates the rest that remains for the people
of God; while with Faith's strong-reading eye
we pierce the future, and behold in anticipation
the glories and triumphs of the Saints—when
the Lamb shall stand upon Mount Zion with
the great company of the redeemed, who have
come up through great tribulation; when the
tears shall be wiped from off all faces, and
sickness, sorrow, pain and death be felt and
feared no more.
	Then let us leave the silent inhabitants of
the graves to rest in peace, till the glorious
morning of the resurrection, when they shall
come forth in immortality, to inherit the glory
prepared for them. And let us who are still
left to toil and suffer in the great battle of life,
so live, that when the summons comes for us,
when "the silken cord shall be loosed and the
golden bowl be broken;" when the shadows of
the dark valley surround us, though the waters
may be cold, and nature shrinks abashed, may
we meet Death, not as a conqueror, but as a
friend. "Oh, Death, where is thy sting! Oh,
Grave, where is thy victory!"
								N. C. Y,


