			CHORUS:
	Though we fly from vile oppression,
	'We'll maintin our pure profession, 
	Seek a peaceable possession, 
	Far from Gentiles and oppression. 

	We've left the city of Nauvoo, 
	And our beloved Temple, too,
	And to the wilderness we go,
	Amid the winter frosts and snow. 

[Column 2]

	The Camp, the Camp—its numbers swell—
	Shout! Shout! O Camp of Israel!
	The King, the Lord of Hosts, is near, 
	His armies guard our front and rear."

	While the Saints were encamped at Sugar
Creek, across the river, in Iowa, waiting the
arrival of others and making arrangements for
traveling, the weather was cold, windy and
stormy, and it required undaunted heroism and
an unflinching purpose to endure, all the hard-
ships and privations incidental to the time.
Sleeping in tents upon the cold, frozen ground,
in snow storm, or rain, was not the most agree-
able thing in the world, but Eliza was deter-
mined to share the fortunes of the Saints, to
live or die with them. Her mission was with
her people, and although she perhaps did not
realize the importance of the position she was
destined to occupy, yet there is no doubt she
had an intuition of the future, and of the great
work which lay before her, and this made her
resolution to persevere under difficulties
stronger, and buoyed her up when called to
pass through severe trials and affliction.
	Her pen was active, and the effusions writ-
ten in wagons and by the wayside are full of
originality, and graphically expressive of the
every day lives and journeyings of the Saints.
We give a few lines here, from one of her
poems, which are specially suggestive:

	"Lo! a mighty host of Jacob,
	Tented on the Western shore
	Of the noble Mississippi, 
	Which they had been crossing o'er.

	"Soon the carriage wheels are moving
	Onward to a woodland dell,
	Where at sunset all are quartered—
	Camp of Israel! all is well."

	Sister Eliza traveled with Col. Markham's
family. Col. M. was a tried and sterling friend
of the Prophet Joseph. It is impossible, in
this brief sketch, to recount all the adventures
of this wonderful journey, commenced in mid-
winter, but we must leave the reader to imag-
ine something of the cold, the inconvenience
of traveling over a new country at such an un-
seasonable time, bad roads, or no roads at all,
mud, rain, snow, sleet, rivers to cross, and all
the hardships of a pioneer journey with insuffi-
cient teams and incomplete outfits. She says
she "frosted her feet often enough to occasion
her much inconvenience afterwards." "At
one time," she writes in her diary, "I was
seated on a chest in a lumber wagon, with a
brass kettle for a footstool."
	The Saints made settlements by the way,
where some families were left to put in grain 
and make a resting and recruiting place for
those who were to come afterwards! At the 
middle fork of Green River, on the first day
of June, Bro. M., with others, stopped at one
of these points. Here Sister M. and Sister
Eliza lived in a house made of logs piled up
loose like children's cob houses, with cracks
between the logs from three to four inches wide,
a tent cloth stretched over the top, while blan-
kets and carpets were hung up on the inside as 
a protection from inclement weather. 
	On the 19th of August, when Bro. M., who
had been absent about three weeks, returned
they bade goodby to Mt. Pisgah, but when
they were ready to start they were minus a
teamster. Sister M. undertook to drive one
yoke of cattle, but she soon fell sick and Sister

[Column 3]

Eliza was left to drive. She says had it been
a horse team she would have felt capable, but
driving oxen was new business. However, she
soon learned to "haw" and "gee," and became
such an adept that she could sit in the wagon
and drive, and acquit herself creditably. But
this was not all. The family, one after another
were sick, and she had to assist in cooking and
nursing, as well as driving the team; in which
she realized the truth of the Scripture, "As
thy day so thy strength shall be."
	On the 27th they crossed the Missouri River
at Council Bluffs, and the next day arrived at
the general camp at Winter Quarters. From
constant exposure and continued hardship Sis-
ter Eliza broke down; a slow fever set in, chills
and fever followed, and she lay in the wagon
very ill. Heavy autumnal rains came on, and 
she was often "wet nearly from head to foot."
She felt that she stood just at the gates of
death, that it was but a step beyond, and that
once inside the portals she would be free from
pain and suffering; but her great life-work lay
before her, and she summoned courage and.
supreme faith to her aid. The wagon she had
been occupying with Sister M. for a bedroom
was needed to go out for "supplies," and they
moved into a log house only partly finished.
It had no chinking, the wind was cold and
blustering,and no chimney, the fire was built on
one side, and the room, which had no floor,
was always filled with smoke. This was unen-
durable, and the fire had to be dispensed with,
and the cooking done out of doors; the intense
cold being preferable to the smoke. Towards
the latter part of November the house in which
she lived was made more comfortable. There
was much sickness and destitution among the
Saints, and many died in consequence of the
privation and suffering. About the close of
the year, when Sister Eliza was sick and had,
seemingly, endured to her utmost capacity; she
received the sad news of her mother's death;
and though she grieved that she could not be
permitted to behold her again in the flesh, yet
she knew she had suffered much in consequence
of the persecutions of the Saints, and had
now laid down in peace to sleep until the morn-
ing of the resurrection.
	On the 7th of April, 1847, the pioneers, un-
der the direction of President Brigham Young,
left Winter Quarters to search out a gathering
place for the Pilgrim Saints. This was a theme
worthy the pen of the poetess, and she dedi-
cated to Pres. Young and the pioneers "A
Journeying Song," from which we give a verse
or two as illustrative of the poem, which was
both inspiring and comforting to them at that
time when all was stern, cold reality.

	"The time of winter now is o'er—
		There's verdure on the plain;
	We leave our shelt'ring roofs once more, 
		And to our tents again. 

