
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1887.		No. 1.


[Column 1]
	SWEET MEMORIES.

Sweet memories come in visions of the night,
And banish sleep and thrill us through and through;
'Til every pulse throbs with a wild delight;
And scenes forgotten burst upon our view.
Strange fancies hold us by a magic power,
Then fade away, as fades the summer flow’r.
	
We clasp the hands of those now long since dead,
And press our lips to theirs in kisses sweet,
Desert’d paths and by-gone places tread,
And hand in hand familiar faces greet.
’Tis but a moment and the vision’s flown,
And we are left bewilder’d and alone.

We gather wild flow’rs in the fragrant vale,—
Meanwhile the bluebird sings and soars away,
The low-voic’d thrush pours forth her plantive tale,
Alone in silent reverie we stray,—
With thoughts subdued, and eyes suffus’d with tears.
As we recall these scenes of other years.

Anon, we wander by a winding brook;
Close to its banks the fern and moss still clings,
And in the self-same shelter’d, shady nook
The lonely whippoorwill disconsolate sings
The long night through, bemoaning his sad fate,
As those who bow'd in sorrow wail and wait.

In the low meadows ’mong the clover bloom,
Where buttercups and daisies nod and sigh,
And the soft air is laden with perfume,
A moment we are lost in ecstacy,
And mingle with companions of our youth
’Til conscious of the sad and bitter truth—

That they are gone, and this a waking dream
Wherein our fancy revels to deceive,
And yet so perfect all these pictures seem,
That we half-doubting gladly would believe,
That youth and love and buoyant hopes were ours,
And chilling frosts ne’er nipp’d life’s fairest flow’rs.

Sweet mem’ries of our busy life a part,
Rifting the clouds, that hang around our way,
Whispering gently to the human heart,
Hope on and bear the burden of to-day
Shrink not from trials that are hard to bear,
For life has many blessins rich and rare.

The lonely wander’r in a foreign land,
Far from his home and those he loves the best,
In memory sees again the household band,
And in the vision feels supremely blest,
And gazes lovingly upon each face.

Thus soothed, unconsciously he sinks to sleep,
Breathing, as ’twere a blessing and a prayer;
That angel sentinels may vigil keep,
Around the home where his fond treasures are;
And in his dreams softly he seems to hear
Voices of absent lov’d ones murmur’ng near.

Thus retrospectively we turn and gaze
Into the regions of the shadowy past,
And analyze our lives through ev’ry phase
Wond’ring what horoscope could have been cast,
When first was usher’d in our hour of birth,
To fill the mission, taken here on earth.

Ah me! what matters it that we inquire
Into the past, or search the paths we’ve trod,
’Tis knowledge of the future we desire,
And grace divine to bear the chast’ning rod,
Acknowledging His hand in good or ill,
While daily toils and duties we fulfill.

Yet,—harder still would be our earthly lot,
If the sweet mem’ries of life’s golden hours,—
The brightest and the best were all forgot,

[Column 2]
The perfume taken from the fairest flowers,
That bloom along our toilsome, weary way,
And scatter fragrance round us day by day.
	EMILE.

	April 5, 1887.
	E. B. Wells.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

				LAIE, May 8th 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR AUNT EM:—You, who love the
flowers of this sad earth so well, will be
interested, I am sure, in knowing something
about the flowers of these islands, and so I
devote this little paper to those sweet eyes
and breaths of the angels—flowers.
	I don't think there are any native
wild flowers, or very few, at least; in my
journey around this island I have seen
none but the high prickly pears, which bear
fruit as well as flower, and the flowers culti-
vated in gardens. You must imagine Laie set
on the top of a gentle hill sloping up from the
sea, exposed to the almost constant trade-winds
which effectually prevent any growth of trees
or flowers, except where sheltered in some way
from its breath. Behind a hill, there will be
banked great masses of green bushes, coarse
ferns and trees. But around our houses, we
are obliged to erect some kind of bulwark to
keep off the salt wind. The house itself is
thus utilized, and at times the grassy turf is
cut out in neat blocks and filled up two or
three feet high, thus forming an excellent 
break for the wind.
	Here in these little spots grow oceans of bloom
and fragrance. The natives dearly love flowers,
and have bought and begged seeds until there
are few homes anywhere on this island without
a tiny flower garden.
	Great geraniums, oleanders, and hundreds 
of rare and exquisitely beautiful exotics
flourish here in rank profusion. Honolulu
might well be named the City of Bloom. For
all the year round its well kept gardens smile
up to the sun with all its own prismatic colors.
San Francisco has gardens, but there every-
thing in the city proper has a dusty weary
look, the very roses hanging their fragrant
heads with the burden of city life. But in
Honolulu, wide and spacious as to gardens,
everything is bright and green, kissed, as the
flowers are almost daily, with the sunny drops
of a gentle shower.
	Here at Laie, the rose and the geranium are
favorites. The bright marigold and the yel-
low lily are used extensively for leis. These
leis or wreaths are often very beautiful. 
Imagine geraniums of the most delicate pink,
or the brightest scarlet pulled apart, and each
separate single flower strung on a string alter-
nating occasionally with the green spiced
leaves of the rose—geranium, the whole form-
ing a necklace of wild beauty.
	All the flowers are used for this purpose, a 
dainty rosebud lei being very beautiful and
effective. These leis are sometimes made of
the little purple everlasting flower, and will
keep indefinitely. My own variegated double
Zuinias, of which I gave the seed to some of
our native sisters is utilized thus. There is
also the white fragrant honeysuckle here. In
short, many bright, glowing beauties of which
I only know the native name. 
	But if you come here, and look for the gar-

[Column 2]
dens here at Laie, you will find them strug-
gling along with grass and perhaps next to
sweet potatoes and kalo.
	The ferns all hide themselves in the dis-
tant gorges, and laugh softly to themselves in
the mountain breezes, that, "that which is
worth having is worth coming after," and, alas,
I can only look afar off and wish!
						HOMESPUN.
Susa Young Gates


PLAIN TALK.
	I am one of the poor, and unlearned, so far
as education is concerned, but I have had quite
an experience in some things. I have the in-
terest of the poor at heart, therefore it is not
altogether out of place for me to pen a few of
my simple thoughts, and I will begin by re-
minding you of the many lessons that have
been taught us now for many years; that of be-
ing self-sustaining, patronizing home manufac-
ture and using economy. Have we heeded this
counsel? Are we better than ten years ago?
No, but worse; we are gliding along as though
we were asleep, living in our ease, not thinking
of what is coming nor what our condition will
be. I think it is time that we were roused
from our slumber and begin to look to our own
interest and practice what we preach by being
self sustaining. Why not be more independ-
ent and manufacture what we need at home
and not depend on Babylon for our supplies.
We are in that like some in keeping the word
of wisdom. Some say when we cannot get
these things which are forbidden then we will
keep the word of wisdom, and when all our
supplies are cut off then we will not patronize
Babylon. I think it is best to prepare for war
in time of peace, for it is too late to pray
when Satan comes. Now it is the poor that I
am interested about, and the Saints of Ari-
zona have never been able to sustain them-
selves yet, and why is it so?  Well, one great
cause is that it takes about half or more that
a man can raise to buy clothes and other nec-
essaries that the family need, then he has to
work some other plan to buy his bread. Well,
can this evil be remedied? I think it can to
some extent. In what way? Well, to be
plain and come to the point at once I would
say let the brethren buy a carding machine
and put it up so that the wool in this country
can be carded and then our sisters can spin
their own knitting yarn and make their cloth-
ing for every day wear and by so doing the
men can save grain enough to bread the family.
“Oh dear,” says one, “do you think for a mo-
ment that we would do such work as that
when we can buy goods so cheap, and have
nothing to do but sew them? Let us live easy
while we can.” I beg leave to differ with
you my Sisters just as long as we buy the
shoddy goods that we do, it will take a woman
all her time to do the sewing for her family
and I can testify to you that I know by ex-
perience that it is more injurious to health to
run a sewing machine than a loom. Some of
our brethren, of course, will object to it and
say their wives and daughters must not do
such work as that. They had rather put out
their means in buying a factory. Well, I am
in favor of a factory as much as any one, and
all other kinds of machinery but would it not
be better in our poverty and cramped con-
dition to begin on a cheaper plan and make
all we can at home, and that would enable us
to lay by something to help get a factory, and


I think it would be greatly to the interest of
the people if our Co-op stores would turn out
some of their Capital in that direction. I am
highly in favor of a factory but I am inter-
ested in the poor for I am one of them and I
believe a carding machine would be of more
advantage to them than a factory, and I 
will give my reasons for thinking so:
	The poor would have but very little capital 
if any in a factory and would have to buy
their clothing just the same as they do now
but if they had the carding machine they then
could make their own cloth with their own
labor and be independent. Now I am not
alone in my ideas on this subject, by many, and
I would say to all that view this subject in
the same light that I do, speak up for your
rights; speak out plain and tell the brethren
that it is a carding machine that we want here
in the Eastern Stake of Arizona. "Oh," says
one, "what nonsense; an old woman's fancy, we
are tired of it; we will get all such things
when we see that we need them."
	Now I told you in the beginning that I was
not educated, but that I had had quite an ex-
perience in some things and now I will tell you
a little about it. I happened to be one of the
unfortunate ones that lived in the south in
time of the rebellion. I had been raised in a city,
knew nothing of farm work but I happened to
be living on a farm when the war broke out,
then we had to make our own support in some
way; we had to go to the fields and work; we
had to card, and spin and weave every inch of
cloth that we wore, even the very thread it 
took to sew it with, we had to make. We
could not buy a yard of cloth, a spool of thread,
a skein of yarn, a bunch of warp, a card of
buttons, or a paper of needles or pins. We
tanned our own leather, made our own shoes,
in fact we made all we eat or wore. Supplies
were all cut off from the south, and we were
overtaken as a thief in the night. But if we
had been as wise as our people are, or profess
to be, we might have been better prepared.
And I would advise all to lay by such things
as they may need when Babylon falls and we 
cannot get them. Such as needles, pins, but-
tons, thimbles, thread, wool cards, bleached
muslin, linen, and all needful things; we had
better prepare such things and not need them,
than to need them and not be able to get them.
But what we need now is a carding machine;
we don't want to be forced to card by hand to
make our own wear.
								M. B.
	Erastus, Apache Co., Arizona.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HENRIETTA’S VOYAGE.
			BY EMILY B. SPENCER.
				THE STORM.

		The vessel tosses here and there,
		For storm the sailors her prepare,
		Bestowing on her every care,
		Heaven, preserve them where they are.

		Through the long night the lightnings flash,
		Kept lighting up the waves,that dash
		Against the shivering ship and masts,
		The shrieking wind in terror passed.

		The thunder pealed its notes of doom,
		And pelting rain gave added gloom;
		The end seemed coming very soon,
		As louder crashed the thunder's boom.

		The creaking ship gave groan for groan,
		The women and the children moan;
		Will ever come another morn?
		Will they outride the beating storm?

		Then prayers arose from Saints on board,
		An Elder then the tempest dared,

[Column Two]

		On deck rebuked by hand and word
		The storm, and God in heaven heard.
		
		The wind seemed gently lulled to sleep,
		Soon waves stopped towering o’er the deep,
		For God His Saints will ever keep,
		Glory ever be to Him!

		The morning came in splendor bright
		The ocean’s jeweled bosom, light
		Bore white capped waves into the sight;
		The ship was swiftly sailing right.

	The storm was past and the Saints felt that
the Lord had indeed stilled the tempest, and
grateful prayers arose to Him, thanking Him
for their preservation.	
	The weary days wore on, the sun rising over
the vast expanse of water, and at evening dip-
ping its golden disk below the waves and dis-
appearing, until monotony seemed to settle
down upon the passengers, but at last the cry
of land brought all on deck, and again the
sight of green verdure, tropical trees, rocks,
rivulets, and houses, gave animation to the
weary throng that gazed upon the varied
scenery.
	At last they came to New Orleans and dis-
embarking, took a last farewell of the noble
ship, that had been home to them for so long,
and taking a steamer for St. Louis, ascended
the mighty Mississippi. On either shore they
beheld the residences of wealthy
planters, the cotton fields, gangs of negroes
working, and the beautiful scenery of the
South.
	Arriving at St. Louis the company landed.
Some had friends who joyfully met them, and
and took them away, but Henrietta felt lonely.
The one she loved had not appeared, and in
all that great city there was no one else to
greet her. What was her surprise and delight
when a pleasant gentleman spoke to her, tell-
ing her he had come for her, that he was the
Bishop of the branch. He took her to the
house of a friend, and left her. Here she was
made welcome and her new found sister friend
treated her as a mother would a daughter, and
won the warmest gratitude of her heart.
	In this kind home she staid until she found
employment in another’s family.
	Time passed on, and preparations
for the overland journey be-
gan, and at last in early spring, she
set her face westward towards Zion the place
of the Saints, in the tops of the mountains.
	Morning after morning the call came for
prayers and breakfast—the harnessing and yok-
ing of the teams, the moving of the long trains,
always westward over the level plains, with the
same mountains in the distance in view, the
walking of the strong and the riding of the
weak, the noon halt, afternoon the repitition of
the morning and the glad sight of water and
feed at night.
	A rest after the weary day’s march. The
bright camp fires were lighted, suppers quickly
got, moon lit dances, cheerful songs, prayers,
and all to bed, except the watchful guard, ever
alert, so that no foe could come unobserved
creeping through the grass like a snake, to
steal the teams or kill the sleeping campers.
	Day after day was nearly the same until the
mountain ranges were reached. Then the
monotony of the scenery was broken. Deep
rivers were crossed, and after many days the
top of the Big Mountain was reached, where
all could look far away and get the first
glimpse of the lovely valley of Salt Lake, and
catch the glistening silver of that distant in-
land sea, Salt Lake with a charm surrounding
it, the entrance into the valley where the very
atmosphere breathed peace, and the lovely in-
fluence of the Spirit of God seemed in the very
atmosphere making the rugged mountains
seem the best of places, the valley, home in-
deed.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.
		RAMAH, Valencia Co., N. M.
						May 25, 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	How many times have I attempted to write
for the EXPONENT and nearly as often failed!
When I remember that the women in every
settlement of the Saints should be represented
in “our paper,” I fear that I am guilty of a
neglect of duty.
	Away up here in the tops of the mountains
is a small settlement of the Saints, isolated
almost, the nearest settlement of our people
being St. Johns distant 80 miles, but we are
striving to build up the country and make
homes worthy of saints. Though so far away,
we feel a lively interest in all passing events,
and eagerly peruse the papers that we may
be familiar with the signs of the times. We
sympathise with you and the Saints in Utah in
the loss of the suffrage through the schemes and
plots of wicked, truth-hating men, but so sure
as “truth though crushed will rise again” and
shine with brighter lustre, so sure will this
cherished right be restored to you in Utah and
given to other noble women who are
so bravely struggling for it, while
those who to-day are so vindictively
fighting the progress of righteousness
will sink into oblivion, and after ages (not long
after either) will remember them only with
contempt. We are to be a tried people even
gold seven times purified in the furnace; if
God sees fit to try us through wicked men it
matters not to us. “It must needs be that of-
fenses come, but woe to them by whom they
come!”
	Sisters,lift up your heads and rejoice. Truth
will triumph, we know we have that; we know
our religion is pure, every principle of it—the
whole Christian world to the contrary notwith-
standing—And nothing that we be-
lieve in but will tend to exalt
us in the scale of being, and take us back to
the presence of our Father. We are weak
human beings liable to err, but this is not the
fault of our religion, neither is our religion
answerable for the wickedness of some of its
professors. The Gospel net gathers of all
kinds, the wheat and the tares will grow to-
gether. The time of separation is nigh, even
at our doors. Let us be as the wise virgins, al-
ways ready with our lamps trimmed and burn-
ing, full of oil, that we may not be blown off
with the chaff.
	It is only through prayer that we can have
the Holy Spirit to lead us safely through
temptation. It is as necessary for the mothers
to be in possession of the spirit as the fathers.
Whether we realize it or not, it is we who have
the molding of our children’s future, whether
it be one of usefulness, or otherwise in the
Kingdom of God.
	It is we who have them under our almost
entire control, during their early years, when
the mind is susceptible of the most lasting im-
pressions. The wise man said, “Train a child
in the way he should go, when he is old he will
not depart from it.” How necessary then we
should watch their every act, yea, even mold
their every thought in the ways of the Lord.
	'Tis an old theme this, yet never enough is
said upon it. How weak my efforts to en-
courage the struggling mother! Had I the
tongue of an angel it seems to me no more
nobler theme could employ it than the train-
ing of our precious little ones.
					PHEBE A. MCNEIL.


A meeting in commemoration of Wendell
Phillips was held in Faneuil Hall Monday
evening, May 30.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THERE IS SWEET PEACE IN PRAYER.

	O God! the Eternal Father,
		In Thee we put our trust,
	We look to Thee for comfort,
		And we know that Thou art just.

			CHORUS.
		For there is sweet peace in prayer,
			For we know Thou art near;
		There is sweet peace,
			There is sweet peace in prayer.
 
	Thou knowest our hearts, dear Father,
		We know in whom we trust,
	For Thou art kind and merciful,
		And we know that Thou art just.
										Cho.
	We are Thy children, Father,
		And Thou hast sent	us here;
Then whisper words of comfort
		When our trials are severe.
										Cho.
	We are Thy daughters, Father,
And as mothers, too, and wives,
	We desire to prove faithful
And gain eternal lives.
										Cho.
									A. HULINGS.


SATURDAY MORNING.

The children coming in at "Mamma’s” call,
	Into	the bath, in turn, each takes a plunge;
Aud there, from curly crowns to toe-tips small,
	Are gently cleansed with water, soap and sponge.

While thus the mother works, she softly prays,
	That God will sanctify their souls within;
And keep her darlings from forbidden ways,
	In purity and virtue, free from sin.

Then carefully with towels they are dried,
	In garments clean each infant form she'll dress,
Still praying, "Father, keep them from false pride,
	And clothe them with Thy truth and righteousness."

Not without interruption does she pray,
	Though th’ heart prayer is fervent, pure and strong,
Yet other things her lips must ope to say,
	Asking and answering questions all along.

Whether the water is too warm or cool,
	Into which one too hastily has jumped;
Chiding the breaking of the Golden Rule,
	Kissing away the hurt when heads are bumped.

Thus broken oft, the prayer is sent above,
	Full of deep meaning, though the words are few,
But prayers so freighted with sweet faith and love, 
	Must be accepted, I believe, don’t you?

			L.G. Richards				 LULA.


THOUGHTS ON MY WEDDING DAY.

DEAR EXPONENT:                                                                                                                                         
	You will not regard me as an egotist, or feel
that I am trying to place myself before the
public in a conspicuous manner, for I do not
desire to give my humble thoughts to the pub-
lic only as duty prompts me to, that I may
be benefited and, perchance, encourage some
weary one in life’s great struggling throng.
	To-day so many things of the past have come
up in my memory, and with her I have loved
over again every day of the years now fled,
and I have been asking how well I have per-
formed my duties as a wife and mother in
Zion. Alas! how unsatisfactory the answers
are for self condemnation, meets me at every
turn. One third of my short life I have been
a wife, and all this time I have desired to be a
faithful, loving one, and yet oft have I placed
thorns in the paths of the dear ones where
roses might have grown; given frowns where

[column 2]
only smiles should have been seen, and instead
of catching all the golden sunbeams as they
passed, I have been so busy sighing over the
little annoyances in my way, that many of the
most beautiful ones have gone unnoticed.
	The sweet babes, given of heaven, have been
such a comfort, yet I cannot forget that at
times I have not appreciated them enough to
always be as patient as I should have been, and
by a little bad example have, I fear, lost many
a beautiful precept. I well remember one night
being sorely tried with my young daughter. I
said, “Did you say your prayers to-day?” “Yes.
mamma,” she answered, “and I asked the Lord
to make me a good girl” I told her I was
afraid she did not want to be good and try to
please me, else she could not make so many
failures. Then came the sweet childish voice
that went right to my heart and smote it with
bitterness. “But mamma, I do try to be good,
and I don’t believe the Lord helps us to do
right, for when I ask Him to help me, then He
lets me do something naughty again.” I kissed
the dear child, and did my best to undo what I
had unwillingly done—destroying my child’s
confidence in her Creator. I bade her still
trust in Him and in time the victory would be
gained, and ere I closed my eyes I knelt in deep
humility and implored that same Almighty to
forgive my weakness iu expecting my child to
render greater homage to me than I did to Him,
for it came to me with great plainness that my
daughter did better as a child than I did as a
representative of intelligent womanhood; for do
I not daily ask for strength and wisdom? and
I know more than I deserve is given, and I
alone am to blame if this heaven-born light is
rejected through my yielding to frail mor-
tality.
	These things, and many more, come to my
mind, aye, more than I could find language to
express, and I felt I would like to see all my
dear sisters in Israel, and then we would take
our dear companions by the hands and together
beseech the divine blessing on our future years,
that the powers of evil may be bound with a
stronger chain than it ever has been in our
homes; that peace and union may reign su-
preme in every breast, and the love of right-
eousness may hold sway in the hearts of our
sons and daughters. Is not the mother the
guiding star of the daughter, and can the son
be censured if he follows in the footsteps of
his father? God help our children and have
mercy on us as parents if we place not purity
and truth before them.
	Do we wish our dearest earthly treasures to
go forth in the cold world with no pleasant re-
flections of their early home and natural pro-
tectors in life? No, a thousand times no! Then
we must look well to the lives we are living be-
fore them each day. Are we showing them
that the Gospel light has been a blessing to us,
by rendering us better parents than children of
the world possess?
	Do we, as wives, teach our daughters to have
a proper respect for their future husbands by
tenderly regarding the wishes of their fathers,
and thus increase their love and honor for the
same. If we do, they will look forward with
pride to the day when they can give the same
loving service to their heart’s ideal.
	If a husband watches over with kind solici-
tude the interest of the mother in his home,
the sons will most likely love and honor that
mother, and will thus be taught to regard
women as something more than a toy or com-
mon drudge, and in short, if we as mothers
and fathers lead lives of honor and aspire to
laudable aims in life, scorning to stoop to the
little despicable acts that are daily destroying
our influence in private as well as public circles,
our children will most assuredly be ambitious
to reach the same goal. 
	I verily feel that a reformation is needed in
every quarter among the Saints, for while I

[column 3]
contend with the mighty foe in the shape of
my own weakness, I am inclined to think,
from observation, others must battle to some
extent with the same evils. We know that
Satan with his legion of fallen angels are let
loose to lead astray those who are trying to
earn a salvation in the kingdom of God, and
no stone will be left unturned to gain their
point, and if we trust ourselves an instant on
the forbidden ground we may be lost.
	Oh, let us renew our energy lending all our
aid to each other by faith and prayer and good
works, and with sweet encouragement lead the
weak and help the weary to stand, for are there
not times when each will grow faint? I know
of one, and that is,
						VIOLET OWEN.


RECEIPT FOR MAKING A BAD HUS-
	BAND GOOD.

	Take of the plants of sincerity, cheerfulness
and modesty, each one pound; of the mother of
cheerfulness two handsfull; infuse them into
a large portion of personal neatness mixed
with the flowers of complacency; drain the
essence from all impurities, and add of the oil
of condescension guantum sufflcet. This has
been found a never failing nostrum, and may
be safely given in large doses, morning, noon
and night. The discovery of this nostrum has
ranged the entire kingdom of botany and ex-
hausted the resources of chemistry to find a
preparation that would make a bad wife a good
one; he is sorry to say his researches have
proven ineffectual. He can, therefore as a
prescribing physician, only give his advice to
the gentlemen which is, to marry ladies who
are already good, and by a plentiful use of the
oil of appreciation and the essence of pure
affection, keep them so.


NELLIE'S DAILY BREAD.

	“Mamma,” said little Nellie one day at
breakfast, suddenly, “every morning I pray to
God to give me my daily bread, but really it is
you that gives it to me,—isn't it?”
	“Let us think a moment about that, Nellie,”
replied her mother. “Where do I get the
bread I give you?”
	“From the baker, mamma.”
	“And he gets the flour out of which he
makes it from the miller, and the miller gets
the grain out of which he makes the flour
from the farmer, and the farmer gets the
grain—where does the farmer get the grain,
my little girl?”
	“Why, out of the ground,” said Nellie;
“don't you remember when we were at the farm
Uncle George was cutting wheat and oats?”
	“Well, now, suppose that Uncle George put
grain in the ground, and God sent no sun-
shine, and no dew, and no rain, would Uncle
George have any harvest?”
	“Why, no,” said little Nellie, looking
sober.
	“Then, you see, it is God, after all, who
gives us each day our daily bread; and when
we have fruitful seasons and plenty to eat,
we ought to be very thankful to our kind
Father in heaven, who never forgets to give
us what we need.”


I have no sympathy for an eight-hour man
with a fourteen-hour wife.—Henry Ward
Beecher.
	A cobbler in Leyden, who used to attend the
public disputations held at the Academy, was
asked if he understood Latin. “No,” replied
the mechanic, “but I know who is wrong in the
argument.” “How?” asked his friend. “Why,
by seeing who is angry first!”


4	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah	Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JUNE 1, 1887.


THE FIRST OF JUNE.
	To-day, the first of June, is the anniversary of
the birth of the late President Brigham Young,
one of the greatest and best men that ever lived
upon the earth. Brigham Young was born in 1801,
and consequently would be 86 years old were he
now living. He died in 1877, and during the ten
years his name and and fame has been more wide-
ly circulated as each year has rolled by, like that
of other wise men and prophets whom succeed-
ing generations applaud, though their contempo-
raries may have persecuted or put them to death.
Brigham Young’s name and works will be honored
down to the latest generations.
	Brigham Young favored woman’s suffrage, be-
lieved that women should have the privilege of
voting on all questions and held liberal views in
regard to the rights of women in the home and
elsewhere. He was anxious that the women of
Zion should have a paper which should be the
exponent of their views upon all the important
questions of the age, and urged the sisters to
give free expression to their sentiments through
its columns.
	The first number of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
was issued on his birthday, June 1, 1872, and he
approved its name and always seemed to take a
special interest in its circulation among the peo-
ple, believing in the elevating influence of woman
in literature and politics as well as in religion.
“Educate the mothers,” was one of his favorite
themes in conversation and upon the public
stand. That President Young took a
great interest in the EXPONENT is a well-known
fact, and read it carefully, often making suggestions
as to the subjects to be treated upon, although he
had such grave responsibilities resting upon him,
and so much business to attend to. He was one
of those, who never neglected even the smallest
matters, and that was no doubt one of the elements
of his success.
	The EXPONENT is now entering upon another
volume, and it is our wish and desire and ardent
hope, that during the present year there may be a
decided improvement in its appearance. There
certainly will be if the agents in the several wards
and Stakes of Zion will increase their energy in
obtaining subscribers. If they will keep in mind
in soliciting patronage that it is not a paper that is
sustained by advertising, but almost entirely by its
subscription list. It is almost entirely reading
matter, and not page after page of advertisements;
this is an item to be considered. Recently a letter
was received at this office from a president of one
of the Stakes of Zion, who speaks of the EXPON-
ENT like this: “Your paper wherever taken I find
a decided improvement in all such families. Sis-
ters, either married or single, are in advance of
those where the EXPONENT is not found,” etc. We
publish this to encourage those who may be dis-
couraged in making efforts to extend the circula-
tion of the paper.
	Such testimony coming from one of our brethren


who has had a wide experience in the world may
be taken as authority, and stimulate those who are
laboring in its interest.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, on Thursday, June 23rd, commencing
at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. A punctual attendance of
presidents and officers from the several branches
is most desirable, but at any rate a representative
from each Society, as verbal reports are ex-
pected.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. will hold their conference on
the following day, Friday, the 24th, commencing
at the same hours. It is most earnestly desired
that there should be a good representation, and
that each Association should be represented
verbally by the respective president or one of the
presiding officers. 
	THE Primary Associations will hold their Confer-
ence on Saturday, June 25th, it is expected in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and as it is a beautiful
season of the year, there ought to be a large num-
ber of children present. There will no doubt be
an interesting programme prepared for the occa-
sion, and the parents should be sufficiently inter-
ested to attend and encourage the children and
those who labor so nobly, efficiently and energeti-
cally to train the children of the Saints.


[Column 1]
	﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

“Bring flowers, pale flowers, o'er the bier to shed,
A crown for the brow of the early dead!
For this through its leaves hath the white rose burst,
For this in the woods was the violet nursed;
Though they smile in vain for what once was ours,
They are love's last gift—bring ye flowers, pale flowers!”

	In the flowery month of May, when nature had
donned her beautiful apparel, and the whole earth
seemed radiant with springtime one lovely flower
faded away and died; one of a numerous house-
hold band, beloved and loving, tender and affec-
tionate, kind and generous, possessed of large hu-
man sympathy, unselfish and ever thoughtful of
others, never forgetting the poor, the sick and the
sorrowful.
	Just when the evening sun was setting, and the
purple mantle of its reflected light rested like a
veil on the Eastern hills, she was laid away in the
silent tomb. Sad and sorrowful were the hearts
of the mourners, and their sobs and moans were
pitiful, but they bowed to the inevitable and tried
hard to say, “He who tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb, and who has said not a sparrow falls
to the ground without His notice, has taken her
to Himself, and though we are sore bereft, yet, we
know He doeth all things well.” Her grave was
covered with the beautiful flowers of May, the
flowers she loved so dearly, emblems of affection-
ate remembrance from true and faithful friends.
	It is needless to multiply words, but it is right
and proper to record the death of one who has
so often written for the readers of the EXPONENT,
who will doubtless remember her letters from
Nauvoo, Kirtland, and other parts of the Eastern
States, during her visit to those places in 1883.
	Louise Martha Wells Cannon, or as she was
lovingly called, “Louie,” was the daughter of
General D. H. and Mrs. E. B. Wells, and was
born in Salt Lake City, Utah, August 27, 1862.
Her disposition, from her earliest childhood, was
gentle, tender and amiable; her nature refined and
sensitive, her manners winning and attractive.
She was in many respects specially gifted; her
ardent love of music, her taste for art studies, her
genuine admiration for the beautiful and poetic in

[Column 2]
nature, and her intellectual qualities combined
with her goodness of heart, endeared her to all
who knew her, and she was a special favorite with
children.
	She died of dropsy, in San Francisco, Cal.,
whither she had gone, Dec. 29th, 1886, on a visit
to her sister, Mrs. Belle M. Sears, on the morning
of May 16, 1887, aged 24 years, 8 months and 19
days. Though suffering for about three months
the most agonizing pain almost constantly, she
never complained; her patience and fortitude was
often remarked upon by the physicians who at-
tended her. She spoke of death with the greatest
composure, though she made, as the physicians
termed it “a brave fight for her life.” Her mother
was by her side constantly during the last five
weeks of her life, and to her, and also to her sis-
ter, she spoke tenderly of all those whom she had
known and loved, that she had not the privilege of
seeing, to say “Farewell.” She died in the full
faith of the Gospel, and with a firm belief in all
its principles. She passed away suddenly at last,
without a struggle or a moan, and only once when
letters arrived by the morning mail, and her sister
called to her to look, and putting the letters in her
hands said, “Look, Lulu, look! here are the letters
you wanted!” she opened wide her beautiful, ex-
pressive eyes as though she knew and realized it
all, and then closed them again forever.
	Her remains were brought to this city, arriving
here May 21st, accompanied by her mother and
husband. The funeral services were held at 4
o’clock p.m. at the residence of her husband,
John Q. Cannon, President Angus M. Cannon pre-
siding. A few of her dear friends of the Taber-
nacle choir (to which she had belonged for years)
under the direction of Prof. Beesley, and ac-
companied by Prof. Daynes at the organ, opened
the services by singing,

	“Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb.”

	Prayer was offered by Bishop H. B. Clawson.
	Choir sang,
	
	“Rest on the hillside, rest.”

	Remarks were then made by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and Prest. Cannon, and the Choir ren-
dered the selection,

		“Nearer, my God, to Thee.”
	
	The benediction was pronounced by her
brother, Elder Junius F. Wells. The casket con-
taining her mortal remains was literally embowered
in flowers, many of them pure white, and all most
artistically arranged. One very elegant cross
and crown, all pure white, intermingled with
green leaves, was presented by the Unity Club,
of which she was a member. An unique monu-
ment, of flowers with the name “Louie” at
the top in heliotrope in oval form was given by the
the Careless Opera Company, and there was also
an exquisite pillow of the softest and purest white
flowers with “Louie” in scarlet geranium blosoms in
the center. Large bouquets of snow balls grace-
fully tied with pure white ribbon and garlands and
festoons of various kinds representing music and
art were given by dear sisters and friends. Her
brothers and brothers-in-law bore the coffin from
the house and when the cortege arrived at the
grave, the choir rendered again that exquisite hymn,

		 “Rest on the hillside rest.”

	The grave was dedicated and consecrated by
Prest. Abram H. Cannon, in a most tender
and touching prayer. Not until all was over and
the grave was covered with the fresh earth did the
mourning friends leave the place where rested one
so dearly loved. Louie lies by the side of her
sister Emmie, who died nine years before, and
next her is Dessie, another of her sisters, who died
Jan. 1886, since the aged father has been absent
from his home.

“The loved and lost!” Why do we call them lost,
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed,


Looked on us all and loving them the most
	Straightway relieved them from life's weary load.

"They are not lost, they are within the door
	That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
	And God Himself their Lord and Judge and King.
	
'Ay! look upon this dreary, desert path,
	The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn;
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
	They have escaped from these and lo! we mourn."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM ENGLAND.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I thought you might like to hear a little about
the manner in which the "Jubilee" of our Queen is
being celebrated. Her Majesty, Queen Victoria,
(as doubtless you are aware) was born May 24th,
1819 and at the death of her uncle, King William
the fourth, she ascended the throne on June
21st in her eighteenth year. She married Albert,
Duke of Saxe Coburg Gothe, on February 10th
1840 to whom she bore nine children, and after a
happy married life she was left a widow in 1861
and since that time she has shown a preference
for private life. As a mother she has been an
example to her subjects and from children the
Princes and Princesses have been taught to be
useful, domesticated, and as polite to the lowest
members of their mother's household as to the 
highest. It was said that the Princess Alice was
ever proud that she had been taught how to make
dresses and to sew, and when in her home in
Darmstadt she used to make nearly all her chil-
drens' dresses, she writes to her mother and
thanks her for making her do what was useful
though at the time it was distasteful. There is
a lesson here worth every one's learning. Learn-
ing is never an encumbrance, we often need it
when we have let golden opportunities pass. As
a queen, our Sovereign has never been excelled,
and to her credit be it said she has kept her court
the most refined, pure, and cultivated, in the
whole world. She is firm but just, and any vice
or wrong in the Court circle, she sternly roots up
and denies the offenders the privilege of being
near her or attending her. The Queen by no
means sanctions much that is done in aristocratic
circles, and on account of her love of retirement,
natural to her advanced years, she fails to see
a great deal of the evil ways of society that only
need her knowledge of them for them to be eradi-
cated. The Prince of Wales, the Heir to the
throne, married in 1867 the Princess Alexan-
dria of Denmark, a most amiable and gifted lady.
By her goodness and beauty she has secured the
love of all the people and reigns in their hearts
second only to the Queen. She has brought her
five children up wisely, the two sons are away;
Prince Albert Victor is in Gibraltar, and is the
eldest, consequently he may be king some day.
Her three daughters remain with her but they are
taught to be domesticated, although they are
Princesses.
	The Prince of Wales is a general favorite on
account of his good nature. I am slightly di-
gressing, but this much I have mentioned, as the
Prince and his family are so closely associated
with Her Majesty, and many of her duties she
transfers to them to perform, that their names
must necessarily appear often.
	This makes the fiftieth year of the reign of
Victoria, who is also Empress of India, and a 
prosperous and peaceful time it has been, con-
sidering the cruel reign of some of
her predecessors. Very few have lived
to celebrate their Jubilee and those
who have, surely never had such prepara-
tions made to celebrate it with all due honor. No

[Column 2]

one seems forgotten. The children, the poor, and
every one seems to be studied. Money is being 
circulated. The poor are getting chances of em-
ployment and everything looks brighter than it
has done for some time past. As near as I can
remember the first public ceremony Her Majesty
honored with her presence this Jubilee Year was
the opening of the Edinburgh Exhibition, and
since then hardly a week has gone by without 
some Exhibition, Show, Gardens or Public Place
being opened or foundation stones laid either by
Herself or her family in her name. The Grand
National Memorial of the Jubilee is to be an
Imperial Institute which is to be built
from contributions from all parts of the United
Kingdom, the Colonies and India and each large
firm or private individual who wishes to give her
Majesty a substantial proof of loyalty, are
requested to give to this institute instead of giv-
ing presents to the Queen, who will lay the foun-
dation stone according to present arrangemements
on July 4th when full state ceremony will be ob-
served. Almost every day appeals are made to
one's purse for some Jubilee festivity or other un-
til it wearies one.  In the streets, in the shops,
everything is marked Jubilee. There are jubilee
dresses with the crown and V. R. stamped upon
them, Jubilee bonnets, Jubilee sweets, Jubilee
provisions, Jubilee drinks, Jubilee carriages and
it is accepted as loyalty when the true motive is
merely money making.
	On the ninth of May the corporation of the city
of London attended the Lord Mayor in state to
Buckingham Palace to present an address of con-
gratulation to Her Majesty upon the Jubilee, and
to surrender again (as the custom has been for
eight centuries) the Jeweled sword of pure gold,
which was made in the Reign of King Rufus, and
the same Mace that history tells us Oliver Crom-
well banished from the table of the House of
Commons, her Majesty then read her reply in a
clear audible voice, and after kissing hands the
ceremony was ended.
	The following day the third Drawing Room was
held and was the most numerously attended of
any this season. The number of Debutantes
numbering over five hundred. The greater por-
tion of the Royal Family were present and hearti-
ly glad Her Majesty must have been when her
hand was kissed by the last fair lady that after-
noon. The dresses were most costly, but the
flowers pleased me the most, they were triumphs
of nature, and the florist's art.
	Upon the same day the American Exhibition
opened at Brompton, and when I have paid it a
visit I will let you know my impressions of it.
The Queen paid it a short visit and spoke kindly 
to the Indians who performed specially for Her
Majesty under the direction of a colored lady who
is called Buffalo Bill.
	The next day Westminster Abbey received a
visit from its illustrious Sovereign who went to in-
spect the preparations that are being made for
the ceremony state service to be held in that
beautiful old building on June 28th to celebrate
the Jubilee. It was there fifty years ago she en-
tered, a girl of 18, to be crowned, and she visited
to attend service there now she is 68, in preference
to St. Paul's Cathedral. No doubt her thoughts
will float back to the time when she first became
our Queen, and of the many scenes she has
passed through since then; of the happy hours
and the sorrowful of her happy married life, and
her widowed one, and will doubtless thank God
that He has so ruled and guided her that she has 
never yet lost the love of her people.
	On the fourteenth the Peoples' Palace in East
End of London was opened by the Queen who
came up from Windsor for that purpose. Her
route lay along the principal thoroughfares of
London such as E. Road, Oxford St., Hol-
born, Cheapside, Oldgate, Whitechapel to Mile
End, where the building was situated and was a dis-

[Column 3]

tance of eight miles. The entire route was decor-
ated with flags, Venetian Masts, Mottoes, Words of
Welcome, and triumphal arches, every house dis-
played some token of respect at Holborn bars,
which is the city boundary, and where stands the 
oldest houses in the Metropolis, that escaped
the great fire of London, whose gabled roofs
stood out in sharp contrast to the modern dwell-
ing places around them. The Lord Mayor at-
tended by sherriffs and a deputation from the
corporation of the city met Her Majesty, and
having presented to her the Sword and Mace pre-
ceded the procession (which was composed of
open carriages) through the city to the city boun-
daries in Oldgate, and there drew aside for Her
Majesty to pass through. On the return journey
Her Majesty alighted and entered the
Mansion House for the first time in her life as the
guest of the Lord and Lady Mayoress, and
after taking tea resumed her journey to Padding-
ton and there took train for Windsor.
	Her Majesty was heartily welcomed and looked
very well. Her hair is quite white, and she has a 
very motherly appearance and is still very stout.
The fatigue attending this ceremonial quite over-
came Her Majesty who was consequently unable
to hold the last Drawing Room of the Season but the
Princess of Wales lovingly undertook it for her and
it was well attended. All presentations to the
the Princess are equivalent to presentations to Her
Majesty. The Queen is very fond of her palace
in Scotland, Balmoral, and spends most time
there on account of its being more secluded, and
she can enjoy private life better there. It is a
common sight to see her walking about almost un-
attended and she frequently visits the poor in their
cottage homes and relieves their wants, and she is
loved more and known better there than in any
part of her dominions. Hence, she has gone
there to spend her birthday which is on Tuesday 
the 24th of May, as well as to rest a little while. I will
endeavor to write you a further account as the
festivities proceed.
		MARION.


ONE OF MISS MULOCK'S BOOKS. 

"About Money and Other Things," but particu-
larly About Money, whether it be devoted to
the preservation of homely wits by home keeping
youths or the gathering of the moss of enlighten-
ment by rolling stones. does Miss Mulock dis-
course with that strong vein of Common Sense of
which she is a Professor in the University of Ex-
perience. At the risk of being considered un-
sentimental, unheroic, even unchristian, she has
the courage to affirm that the right or wrong use
of money is the utmost test of character, as well
as the root of happiness or misery throughout our
whole lives. And at the risk of exciting the
wrath and contempt of the advocates of the higher
education of women, she declares that it is not
necessary for every woman to be an accomplished
musician, an art student, a thoroughly educated
Girton Girl; but that it is necessary that she
should be a woman of business. From the day
when her baby fingers begin to handle pence and
shillings and dollars and cents, and her infant
mind is roused to laudable ambition by the poses-
sion of a fixed sum per week, no matter how
small, she should be taught the true value and wise
expenditure of money; how to keep accounts and
how to ballance them; to avoid incurring the small-
est debt; to observe the just proportion of having
and spending; and, above all, to take to heart the
exceeding wise doctrine of the most foolish of
men, that with the living within one's income
comes happiness, and that the living beyond it, to
the extent of a single sixpence, brings misery and
woe. Miss Mulock is quite right in saying that
he who is careless about money is careful about
nothing, and in everything untrustworthy; and


that it is the prudent man, whom he despises, to
whom at last he comes when his rashness and
thoughtlessness and criminal liberality and gen-
erosity have left him no oil with which to fill his
empty lamp. The improvident half of the world,
whom the plodding other half supports, may read
with profit—to both halves—what the author of
John Halifax has to say About Money—and
Other Things.
	Upon the subject of Genius, her common-sense
which has naturally but little sympathy with the
unwholesome and uncomfortable aberrations of
genius, is peculiarly strong; and almost for the
first time in print the characters of the last most
emphatic genius of the Victorian Age, and of his
almost equally gifted wife, are discussed in the
light of common-sense. Disappointed and neg-
lected, she did her wifely duty in a literal way,
but she seasoned it with incessant complaints,
and the cruel use of sarcasm. He lived a life ex-
ternally unimpeachable but full within with rancor,
and malice, and cruel selfishness toward her.
And for the first time all their unfortunate troubles,
of which the world has heard too much, are as-
eribed, not to his genius, but to his bad qualities
and to her morbid sensitiveness; either of which
might have been the cause of equal incompatibili-
ty in any of the "idiots" and "dolts" and "brain-
less asses" his indigestion showed him in the
world at large. In the avalanche of talk of late
upon genius, its rights and its immunities, its
errors and their excuses, its vagaries and their
results, Miss Mulock's honest opinions, so con-
trary to the opinion generally expressed, are very
refreshing.
	From her chair of Common-Sense the Professor
confesses to have lived for sixty years, and to
have written and taught for forty. To the two
generations who have listened to her wisdom and
profited by her teaching this present lecture, which
she delivers as a Christmas remembrance, will cer-
tainly bring what she hopes for it—a laugh, which
is good; a tear, which is sometimes better; and a
serious thought or two, which is best of all.—
Harper's Magazine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS. 

SAN LUIS STAKE. 
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held in the Manassa meeting house,
March 20th, 1887, Mrs. Martha E. Smith pre-
siding. Present on the stand were Mrs.
Margaret Haskell, of San Juan, and Mrs. Mary
A. Boice, of Oxford, Idaho, Prest. John Mor-
gan, the President of the Stake, and other
leading brethren and sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises of singing
and prayer, minutes of previous conference
were read and approved. Opening remarks by
Sister M. A. Boice: "I esteem it a great privi-
lege to bear my testimony to the truth of this
work. We should put our trust in God, and
honor the holy Priesthood." Said her mother
had a glimpse of the Gospel; long before it was
revealed to Joseph Smith, and she had been
waiting for it; when it came to her she was ready
to receive it.
	Sister Margaret Haskell: "I am pleased to
see you, my brethren and sisters. There is a
good influence here. I can say with truth that
this is the kingdom of God, and I hope that
the sisters may have the spirit of their calling 
to rest upon them that they may learn and
teach the principles of the Gospel to each other
and to their children, that it may have an im-
pression upon their hearts." 
	Mrs. H. Christenson, Prest. of the Manassa
R. S. Mrs. A. M. Rasmussen, Prest. of Ephraim,
and Coun. Maria Showcroft of Richfield R. S.,
each spoke a short time, bearing testimonies
to the truth, of the good being done, and the
improve-ment being made in their respective
wards.

[Column 2]

	Prest. Dalton said he was pleased to see so
much interest manifested on this occasion.
"There is a power in the Relief Society; it
strengthens us in spiritual affairs, and helps
the bishop in many ways; but our greatest
duty is to mold and fashion the minds of the
young. The success of all great men in life is
due, in a great measure, to the teaching of their
mothers. The Gospel has brought together the
best men and women in the world—women
with strong minds, who have given to their sons
the strength of character that they bear."
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. by singing,
"Glorious things are sung of Zion." Prayer
by Bishop Dalton.
	Afternoon session: After singing, prayer
was offered by Coun. W. Christenson. Con-
tinued by singing, "Spirit of faith, come
down."
	The reports of the different Primary Associa-
tions were then given by their respective presi-
dents or counselors:
	Coun. S. T. Boice reported the Manassa P. A.;
Prest. Annettie Christenson, the Ephraim
Primary, and Prest. Christiena Mortison the
Richfield Primary, all of which were in a good
condition, and a lively interest being taken by
the children.
	The names of the presiding sisters of the
Stake, and also of the different ward societies
and Primary Associations were presented by
the secretary and unanimously sustained by
the conference.
	Prest. John Morgan said, "I have enjoyed
this conference very much. I am pleased to
see these organizations growing in our midst,
for they will result in much good. We should
look upon our children as an heritage from the
Lord; they are the most priceless boon that
God can give us. We should keep them at
home among the Latter-day Saints. Purity
and innocence are brighter apparel than all the
fine clothes that they can earn by working out,
where they are exposed to all kinds of influences.
God will hold us accountable for our children.
The presiding sisters should teach the Gospel
in its plainness." Spoke upon the necessity of
the sisters learning the art of good cooking, that
our bread should be light and wholesome, that
we might we healthy.
	Prest. Martha E. Smith said, "I have been
well pleased with the conference." Extended
a hearty welcome to the sisters who had lately
arrived from the Southern States. Said her
health had been poor for some time, and she
had not been able to visit the sisters as much
as she would liked to have done. Asked the
Lord to bless us all.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Choir sang, "Hope of Israel." Benediction by
Prest. S. S. Smith.
		S. T. B. Sec.

BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
	Minutes of the Relief Society annual con-
fenence on the east side of Bear River, held
at Montpelier, March 6th, 1887, Prest.
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Bishop William Rich. Continued
by singing. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	In a few opening remarks Prest. J. P. Lind-
say expressed her thankfulness for having the
privilege of being present on such an occasion.
She desired to hear the reports of the different
branches of the Relief Society on the east side
of Bear River.
	The several branches of the R. S. were repre-
sented by their respective presidents. Sister
L. M. Hart spoke of the tribulations which
are coming upon the Latter day Saints. Said,
"It is the same Spirit which actuated the mobs in
Nauvoo and other places, but all will be well
in the end. We will receive our reward if we
are faithful." She spoke on many other inter-
esting subjects.

[Column 3]

	Sister E. Collins bore a powerful testimony
to the truth of this work in which we are en-
gaged. She made some good remarks to en-
courage us to keep God's commandments.
	Sister Annie Laker, Stake President of the
Primary Association, encouraged the sisters to
improve the time, and not put off till to-morrow
what could be done to-day. Said we should live
nearer to God every day. so that we might feel
that we are helping to roll on God's great
work.
	Sister E. M. Pugmire said, "We have had a
great many good instructions. It is the
practical part that will do us good, not what
we hear." She gave some good instructions to
the secretaries in regard to making out re-
ports.
	Sister E. F. Budge bore her testimony to the
truth of this work in which we are engaged.
	Sister Sarah Holmes said she did not feel as
though she could add one word to what had
been said. She bore testimony to the truth of
the same, and exhorted the sisters to pray for
those who are in prison and in exile.
	Bishop William Rich spoke on the duties
of mothers to their children. Said, "We all
have an influence either for good or evil; we
will be held accountable for the way we use our
influence."
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay knew the remarks
had been dictated by the Spirit of the Lord.
Said "The remarks have all been good and
timely and calculated to do us good."
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p.m. by sing-
ing, "Sweet hour of prayer." Benediction by
Elder D. Osborne
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened by sing-
ing, "With all my powers of heart and
tongue." Prayer was offered by Bishop A.
Wright. Singing, "Praise ye the Lord." The
sacrament was administered, during which the
choir sang a sacramental hymn.
	Sister Lindsay occupied the time in the after-
noon, giving good instructions on different
subjects. She said anyone could not instruct
the children of God without the Spirit of God.
"A Latter-day Saint cannot stand still in this
Church; they will either go backward or for-
ward." She spoke of the dividing line which
is now taking place. "No one can stand firm
to this Church without a testimony to the truth
of the same. God has called us out from
Babylon, that we might not be partakers of her
sins and of her plagues; neither should we
partake of her ways and her fashions. We
should make our own fashions, and not follow
the fashions of the world." Spoke of the laws
which have been enacted against this people,
and of the tribulations which are coming upon
this people, "but God will come from His hid-
ing place, in His own due time, and deliver
them from bondage."
	Bro. D. Osborne endorsed the remarks of
Sister Lindsay; knew they had been dictated
by the Spirit of the Lord.
	Meeting was adjourned by singing, "Let
Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction by Bro.
James Collins.
		JANE OSBORNE, Sec.

CACHE STAKE.
	The Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Cache Stake convened in the Logan Tabernacle,
at 10:30 a.m., Saturday, May 7th, 1887, Prest.
Carrie M. C. Smith presiding. Meeting opened
with singing, "Hearts and Homes." Prayer
was offered by Sister E. Smith. Singing, "God
is Love."
	President Smith stated that she desired those
giving reports to state the successes or failures
with which they had met in carrying out the
programme assigned.
	Verbal reports of all the associations in the
county were given. According to the reports
the associations were in a prosperous condition.


[Column 1]

	Prest. Smith expressed her gratification with
the reports, and laid out a programme of work
which she desired all the associations to do
within the next two months. Exhorted the
young ladies to seek for a knowledge of the
truth, that they might know for themselves
whether any doctrine be of God, or of the
opposite power.
	Sister Margaret Young said, "We have heard
some good instructions this morning, and we
should impress it on our minds, that our knowl-
edge may be increased. The uppermost
thought in our minds should be the principles
of the Gospel, and dress and such matters
secondary; certainly we should be clean in
person and home, for cleanliness is next to God-
liness."
	Prest. Smith then read the names of the
young ladies who had prepared the greatest
number of references on the subjects assigned.
Sarah E. Welchman of Newton, having pre-
pared 381 on Repentance and 163 on What
the Lord calls His Church, had been appointed
to give these exercises in the afternoon.
	Singing, "Truth is Mighty." Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p.m. Benediction by Sister
Jane E. Molen.
	At 2 p.m. meeting opened with singing, "How
firm a foundation." Prayer by Sister R. Eames.
Singing. The minutes of the previous confer-
ence were accepted as read, after which Coun.
Ida F. Langton read the letter from Sister E.
S. Taylor, Territorial President of the Y. L.
M. I. A., stating why she was not with us, and
sending the following expressions to the confer-
ence:
	"Please extend my regrets to Sister Smith
and the young ladies assembled, and may the
Spirit of God be with you, and everything
which is done be for the best good of the asso-
ciations and for the advancement of the work
in which we are engaged. Sister E. R. Snow
requested me to convey to the congregation as-
sembled her blessing, and say that she feels
perfectly satisfied wiih the circumstances which
surround the Saints, and she knows that the
outcome will be glorious,"
	The programme was rendered as follows:
A member of Logan, 3rd Ward, read an essay
on "Household Economy; an essay on "What
are a few things that contribute to make useful
members of society?" was read by a member of
Newton; a song by two members of Hyrum
2nd Ward; references from Doctrine and
Covenants on "What the Lord calls His
Church," were given by Sarah E. Welchman;
two members of the Smithfield Association sang
a song; an essay on "Free Agency of Man,"
war read by a member of Richmond; Sarah E.
Welchman then read the references from the
Bible on "Repentance." This completed the
programme for the afternoon.
	Sister Jane E. Molen, President of the Prim-
ary Associations of this Stake, made some re-
marks; gave some good instructions to the
young ladies, and complimented them on their
progress.
	Sister Freeze, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake Stake, said she was pleased
and interested with the exercises. "If we gain
a glory we must work and earn it. We must
act for ourselves and not depend on others."
The remarks of Sister Molen reminded her of
some remarks she heard President Joseph F.
Smith make on one occasion to the young
ladies, which were to the effect that he (and he
believed that other men would do the same)
would do more for his sweetheart, his mother or
his wife than for any other person, showing
what influence the young ladies had over the
opposite sex. Advised the young girls not to
marry those who were not upright and seeking
to live up to the principles of the Gospel, for
the Lord had designed that the man should be
the leader, and therefore we should seek those
whom we can look up to for counsel. Entreated

[Column 2]

the girls to attend their meetings and seek to
do right, that they might stand faithful. Ad-
vised them to fast often, for this was a key that
would open the heavens unto them. She took
it for granted that all kept the word of wisdom,
for by so doing they would find wisdom and
great treasures of knowledge, even hidden
treasures.
	Prest. Smith said she was pleased with the
manner in which the exercises had been ren-
dered, and with the remarks of the sisters. She
felt like Sister Molen, that the young ladies
were getting ahead of the older ones, and she
felt to rejoice over it. Advised all to work for
the good of each other, that we might there-
by build up the kingdom of God. "Let us
love each other. Let us seek to edify
and glorify each other. Think not that any
are too young to do good. The Spirit of
the Lord can work through a young per-
son as well as through an older one,
if each lives a worthy life." Spoke of our be-
ing deprived of the right to vote, and thought
it a gross injustice. Desired the young ladies
in any of their meetings, where they quote
from another, to give the author due credit.
	Singing; "Come, thou glorious day of
promise." Meeting adjourned until 7:30 p.m.
Benediction by Sister Adeline Barber.
	Evening session of conference: Meeting
opened with singing, "The Spirit's Cry." Prayer
by Bishop Wm. Hyde. Singing. The Terri-
tory and Stake officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
were sustained, a slight change being made in
the latter. Circumstances necessitating the
absence of the First Counselor, Sister Zina Y.
Williams, at present, Sister Retta Ormsby was
sustained as acting counselor.
	By request the exercise on the "Free Agency
of Man," which was given in the afternoon,
was again read; an essay on "What is Charac-
ter in an Individual?" was read by a member
of Hyde Park.
	Sister Sarah Thatcher, President of Logan
2nd Ward Y. L. M. I. A., said, "The Scriptures
tell us, 'Ask, and ye shall receive,'" and she
asked an interest in the faith and prayers of
those present, for she felt very weak, but felt
like standing by her motto, which was, "Do
your best, and by so doing you will in time do
better." Desired that we all strive to prove
faithful to the end, "for the race is not to the
swift, but to those who endure to the end."
	A song was rendered by a member of Logan
2nd Ward; Correspondence by two members of
Logan 1st Ward was then read, after which a
sketch of the life of the Empress Josephine
was given by a member of Smithfield; a mem-
ber of Logan 6th Ward sang a song.
	Sister Retta Ormsby said by request of Sis-
ter Smith she arose to express her willingness
to accept the position to which she had been
called. Said if she could have the faith and
prayers of all she was willing to accept it.
	Sister Freeze said her heart was touched with
pity by the cruel fate of the Empress Josephine,
and thought what a blessing it would have
been if she had lived in the Gospel dispensation,
when her husband could have taken another
wife without their separation. Said although
we as sisters had been disfranchised we yet en-
joy the right to speak, and could advise others
in regard to plural marriage, for we are not
bound by the oath like our brethren.
	Prest. Smith advised the young ladies not to
marry those who were unwilling that they should
spend at least a portion of their time for their
own improvement, and in benefitting others.
She expressed her gratitude to those who had
assisted in making the conference so enjoyable,
especially to Sister Hendrickson for the able
manner in which she had conducted the singing
and the practices to learn the songs.
	Singing. Benediction by Bro. W. H. Ap-
perly.
		ARMENIA PARRY Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Polk, widow of President Polk, keeps
her health and memory at the age of four score
and more.
	The aldermen of Brooklyn have appointed
fifteen women as police matrons, with salaries
of $600 each.
	The entertainment of Queen Kapiolani cost
Boston about $18,000. A large part of this
was for junketing.
	Maggie Mitchell often cooks the dinner at
her Long Branch house, and lets the servants
stand by and look at her.
	Miss Marietta Holley (Josiah Allen's Wife)
received $11,000 for the manuscript of her
new book, "Somantha at Saratoga."
	Miss Ada Leigh, who successfully founded a
home for American girls in Paris, is soliciting
to establish a similar home for young men.
	The grave of Wendell Phillips was covered
with flowers on Memorial Day. Colored men
and Irishmen uniting in this tender remem-
brance.
	Thirty-three women voted at the Belmont
(Mass.) town-meeting. Twenty-two women at-
tended the caucus, which was the largest and
most orderly ever held in Belmont.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, in a recent
visit to Paris, met some of the most distin-
guished suffragists of France at a reception
given at the residence of her son, Theodore
Stanton.
	Columbia College, on its centennial day,
conferred honorary degrees upon three women
—Amelia B. Edwards and Alice E.
Freeman, as doctors of letters, and Maria
Mitchell as doctor of laws.
	A returned missionary from India says that
during ten years she never saw a Hindu child
receive a caress from its mother. Girl babies


are looked upon as a disgrace, and are often
left to die or murdered outright.
	Of the three daughters whom Longfellow
immortalized in that beautiful poem, "The
Twilight Hour," Alice alone remains un-
married. She lives in the old "Craigie house"
at Cambridge with her bachelor uncle, Rev.
Samuel Longfellow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending May 24th, 1887, as follows:
	Emma H. Ere, Lockport, Texas, Artificial
fruit, foliage, and flowers.
	Marion H. Kerner, New York, N. Y., Com-
bined eraser, polisher, and stamp.
	Harriet B. Moris, Burlingame, Kansas,
Ironing-board.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE. 

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A delicious blanc-mange is made by stirring two heaping
tablepoonfuls of oatmeal into a little cold water, then stir
with a quart of boiling milk, flavor and pour into molds to
cool; cream or jelly may be eaten with it.
	A joint of meat may be kept many days by wrapping it
loosely in a fine cloth wrung out of vinegar and hanging it
in a draft of air. If the weather is very warm the cloth
should be moistened twice or even thrice a day.
	To Stew Fish.—Rub with salt and pepper and place in
pan, adding one pint of water to each five pounds of fish.
When about half done season with salt and pepper, one
teacup of flour, a half-pound butter, parsley and thyme.
The seasoning, if convenient, can be stirred into a pint of
oysters, or, in place of oysters, six hard-boiled eggs, sliced,
may be used. Serve with the gravy in the dish.


TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

	In behalf of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Fourth Ward,
Salt Lake City, to the memory of Eliza Alice Worthen,
who was born Feb. 12th, 1863, died May 14th, 1887, and
was the daughter of John and Mary E. Worthen.
	She was an active member of our Association, a beloved
teacher in the Sunday School, a pleasant and agreeable ac-
quaintance, a true and affectionate daughter, and well re-
spected by her associates and friends. We deeply regret
the loss of her presence, but desire to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in this as in all other things, and we
earnestly hope and pray that the spirit of consolation may
be abundantly given to her bereaved friends, that their
sorrow may be lightened by the hope of a happy reunion
with their loved ones in the life to come.

Sister Eliza's gone and left us,
	Her great loss we deeply feel,
But our God has not bereft us,
	He can all our sorrows heal.


She has been a faithful daughter,
	And a noble Saint indeed;
All her friends will sure remember,
	Some kind act that she's revealed.

Oh! her parents, how they miss her,
	That dear girl they loved so well;
They her kindness will remember
	While upon the earth they dwell.

She has set a good example,
	One that's worthy of the just;
Being faithful to her duties,
	And in God she put her trust.

		CECILIA KIRK.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send for publication an obituary on the death of Sister
Mary Baugh Haslem, who died May 1st, 1887, aged sixty-
two years. She was born in Shropshire, England; came
to St. Louis, America, and was married April 10th, 1843;
was baptized in 1848, and came to Utah in 1851 with her
husband, settling in Iron County, helping to build up the
interests of the Church, always prominently lending a help-
ing hand to the sick and distressed in unison with her hus-
band. She was an acquisition to any place, and a blessing
to any county. She was an exemplary wife and mother, an
able and efficient teacher in the ward Relief Society, but
her labors on earth are finished. The Relief Society officers
and members, forming a cortege with her sorrowing family,
followed the casket containing the body to the meeting
house on foot, and afterward in vehicles to the grave. The
Elders spoke of her pure life and many virtues, consoling
the mourning family with the hope of our reunion in the
world to come. Nothing will be forgotten of Sister Has-
lem's good deeds, but the perfume from her loving actions
will cling to her memory to the end of time.

	"She is not dead, yet death has done its work;
	It came, but not in ghastliness—it, as
	A kindly porter, set the gates ajar,
	And he stepped forth, leaving the tenement
	A breathless corse, that slumbers in the tomb;
	'Twas worn and weary and it needed rest.
	No faith, nor prayers, nor the heart's yearnings,
	The loving and beloved, could longer bind
	That mighty spirit in an earthly form."
		JA E LEATHAM.
Wellsville, June 2nd, 1887.

	Being requested by the bereaved husband and adopted
daughter of the deceased, and by the Relief Society of
this ward, I send for publication a tribute of respect to the
memory of our beloved President, Sister Ellen B. M.
Whiton, who died April 25th, 1887, at the age of seventy-
two years. She was baptized in the year 1852; emigrated
in 1853 from her home in Lancashire, England, to these
valleys of the mountains, where her husband, Henry Moran,
was killed by the Indians in 1856. She subsequently
married her present husband, Israel Whiton. On the 4th
of July, 1868, she was called to the office of Treasurer for
the Relief Society of this ward; in 1873 she was appointed
President, which office she held at the time of her death.
	Sister Whiton was an earnest, energetic worker in all
things connected with this place; ever ready with her coun-
sel or her means to attend the bedside of the sick and the
couches of the dead, to see them laid away in the proper
cerements of the grave She died as she had lived, with
the love and esteem of all who knew her. The Relief
Society officers, teachers and members followed the casket
containing all that was mortal of our beloved sister to the
meeting house, which was packed, everyone showing respect
to the remains of the honored dead. The Elders of the
ward paid tribute to her many good deeds and noble
character, and as if God delighted to honor, Apostle John
H. Smith, happening in our city, came with consoling words
and beautiful ideas, showing the benefits and uses of death,
being the arch over the dark river connecting and amalga-
mating the living and the dead, taking away our selfishness
for the things of this life alone, turning our hearts to those
who have finished this life and gone out to join their
friends in the world beyond the grave.

	"Peace to her ashes! Her loved memory
	Needs not of mortal praise. Her works abide;
	And she, with all whose lives are fashioned by
	The unadulterated Gospel mold,
	Will live eternally where Christ shall reign."
		JANE S. LEATHAM.
Wellsville, May 27, 1887.


﻿R.K. THOMAS
			EAGLE EMPORIUM,
			SALT LAKE CITY.
			The Leading Retail
				Cash House.
				R.K.THOMAS
			DAVID JAMES & CO., 
	TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
			Z. C. M. I.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
	Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
				MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
	CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
		H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
			Special to the Ladies.
			AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
			DRY GOODS: 
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1887.	NO. 2.


A DAY IN THE WOODS.

Sunshine! bright, welcome sight,
	Driving care away;
Perfume rare fills the air
	On this balmy day.

Birdies sing, echoes ring,
	Rippling waters play:
With children four we leave the door,
	And to the woods we stray.

Merry shout, ringing out,
	In the forest shade;
Blossoms rare, gathered there,
	And bright garlands made.

Hours gay, pass away,
	Then the lunch we spread,
Under trees, with spreading leaves,
	Branching overhead.

Luncheon relished, all are nourished,
	Lively jest goes round;
Merry laughter follows after,
	Makes the woods resound,

Shady bowers, restful hours,
	Fill our hearts with love!
In heartfelt praise, our voices raise
	To One who dwells above.

Zephyrs sighing, day is dying,
	Footsteps homeward roam.
In this way we passed a day
	Near our mountain home.

		MAY L. MARLER.
Soda Springs, April 27, 1886.


LIFE'S SCHOOL.

I sat in the school of sorrow,
	The Master was teaching there,
And my eyes were dim with weeping,
	And my heart was full of care,
Instead of looking upward
	And seeing His face divine,
So full of the tenderest pity
	For weary hearts like mine.

I only thought of the burden,
	The cross that before me lay,
So hard and heavy to carry
	That it darkened the light of day.
So I could not learn my lesson,
	And say, "Thy will be done,"
And the Master came not near me
	As the weary hours rolled on.

At last, in my heavy sorrow,
	I looked from the cross above,
And I saw the Master watching
	With a glance of tender love.
He turned to the cross before me,
	I thought I heard Him say,
"My child, thou must bear thy burden,
	And learn thy task to-day."

I may not tell the reason,
	'Tis enough for thee to know
That I, the Master, am teaching,
	And give thee this cup of woe."
So I stooped to that heavy sorrow,
	One look at that face divine
Had given me power to trust Him,
	And say, "Thy will, not mine."

And then I learned my lesson,
	Taught by the Master alone!
He only knows the tears I shed,
	For He has shed His own.
But from them comes a brightness
	Straight from the home above,
Where the school life will be ended,
	And the cross will show the love.—Selected.


[Column 1]

DESERET UNIVERSITY.

ADDRESS OF CHANCELLOR O. F. WHITNEY.

Mr. President, Professors and Fellow-Stu-
dents:—

	For we are all students—if not in this Uni-
versity, in the University of life, the school of
human experience.
	I am not vain enough to suppose, in address-
ing you for a short time on this interesting oc-
casion, that I shall say anything new and start-
ling. To be original, in the sense of creating
something new, in an age like ours, and in a
world where history has so often repeated it-
self as to make each generation almost a pla-
giarism of its predecessors, is to be more than
"one man picked out of ten thousand," it is to
be an anomaly and a marvel in the eyes of
mankind.
	An editor once advised his readers to carry
with them a pencil and tablets, and be ready to
jot down any new idea that came into their
minds. Another editor observed sarcastically,
that some of them might carry the pencil a
thousand years, and not wear off the original
point.
	All that ordinary mortals can hope, at
this late day, I presume, is to pluck the fruit from
trees of others' planting, and by the various
methods of cookery known to this generation—
if I may use the figure—strive to make our
offering as acceptable as possible.
	There is an originality, however, which I be-
lieve it is the privilege of all men to exercise;
and not only their privilege, but their bounden
duty. It is to be original in the sense of being
independent, honest, conscientious, in all that
we say and do; in other words, to be original
in the sense of being true to ourselves.
	Says Shakespeare:

		To thine own self be true,
	And it must follow, as the night the day,
	Thou canst not then be false to any man.

	One of the greatest needs of humanity, in
all ages, is men and women of originality; of
truthfulness, sincerity, genuine motives and in-
dependence of character; men and women who
think for themselves, and dare to act according
to their thinking. As the present age is no ex-
ception, and I am speaking to some of the men
and women of the present and the future, it
will not be out of place for me to continue on
the subject I have begun.
	At first thought, it may seem a simple matter,
a very easy task, to be true to one's self; that
is, to be one's self, and not another; to defend
and serve self, when necessary; and to deny
self, when wisdom and duty dictate; to listen
to and obey the "still small voice" of con-
science, the voice of God in the human heart,
no matter how self-interest with silver tongue
may plead, or how darkly dangers may threaten;
to stand as a light-house on the storm-beaten
coast, unmoved by wind or wave, sending the
light of a heroic example over the tempestuous
waters, as a beacon of hope and of warning to
others.
	Let those who will, think it simple and easy.
Simple it may be—for simplest things are, as
a rule, the greatest—but to put such things in
practice has required, in all ages, the Hercu-
lean efforts and lion-like courage of earth's
giant souls.
     Says Emerson: "It is easy, in the world, to

[Column 2]

live after the world's opinion; it is easy, in soli-
tude, to live after our own; but the great man
is he, who, in the midst of the crowd, keeps,
with perfect sweetness, the independence of his
character."
	Independence of character does not consist
in a disposition to quarrel and contend on
every point at issue between us and our
neighbors. "Noise and fury" no more signify
independence, than the smoke and thunder of
battle tell the nature of the cause for which the
armies are contending. Silence and rest may
be quite as independent, and are often far more
dignified, than speech and action.
     The great man, the man of independence,
thinks, speaks and acts for himself. He will
never be found doing a thing, or saying a thing,
simply because it is popular. He will dare to
be himself, though the whole world oppose him.
He neither coincides in order to win favor, nor
opposes for opposition's sake. He will side
with the many, or with the few, according as
his conscience dictates. He is broad and liberal
in his views, and tolerant of the views of others.
He will dare to defend the weak against the
strong, and will never be found trampling on
the defenseless. No man is great, no man is
brave, no man is free, who feels or acts other-
wise.

	"They are slaves who fear to speak
	For the fallen and the weak;
	They are slaves who will not choose
	Hatred, scoffing and abuse,
	Rather than in silence shrink
	From the truth they needs must think;
	They are slaves who dare not be
	In the right, with two or three."

	Conscience makes cowards of all who fear to
follow her; and bigotry, intolerance—that
worst of tyrants—binds its votaries, far more
than its victims, in chains of veriest slavery.
	But let us consider the subject in some of its
lighter phases.
	It is always a sign of weakness, in real life,
to be an imitator; to be a mirror, as it were, of
other men's manners, or the echo of other
men's words and ideas. Such things be-
long to childhood or to the mimic stage. God
intended man to be original, to act his own
part in life's drama, to speak his own lines, and
no one else's.
	Even the actor, whose profession is to imitate,
to "hold the mirror up to nature" and the per-
fection of whose art is "the highest imitation
of nature;" even he must be original, or he
will never achieve greatness. There is an imi-
tation which even imitators must avoid—(ex-
cept it be in burlesque,—and that is the imita-
tion of each other's style of acting. Variety
is necessary. One Edwin Booth is enough.
One Sara Bernhardt is sufficient. We do not
care to see them duplicated in every supernu-
merary around them.
	The same holds good in literature. Turning
down the collar and drinking wine out of a 
skull goblet do not make a Lord Byron, by
any means. It may make a laugh, but it will
be at the expense of the simpleton who causes
it. "The poet is born, not made," and every
poet sent into the world must sing his own song,
and not another's, or the world will be little
better for his singing.
	Affectation of any kind is disgusting. It is
falsehood; it is theft; it is sinning against na-
ture. The young man, American-born, who
goes to England a Yankee, and comes back a
Cockney, exchanging his native nasal twang


bad as it is, for something insufferably worse—
a cultivated cold in the head; borrowing from
over the sea a foreign accent and mannerism,
simply because "its English you know," may
be the beau ideal of what is
termed a "dude," but that is about
the severest thing I would care to say of him.
	No more admirable—with all due regard for
gallantry—is the young lady who visits New
York, London or Paris, and comes back gazing
with eye-glasses and amazement at every object
familiar to her since childhood, and asks all
sorts of questions, that would puzzle the in-
vention of a hack-driver to answer, about Salt
Lake, Ogden or Provo—her birthplace.
	Be original, be genuine, despise affectation.
No man can be that which he is not. Sooner
or later he will be known for what he is, and
souls, like water, will seek and find their level.
Disgrace and failure await those who stand in
false positions, and who try—oh how vainly!—
to be any one but themselves.
	The lapdog in the fable delighted his master
by leaping upon him and stroking him with
his paws. But the poor donkey who tried to
play the lapdog, nearly killed his master, and
was soundly thrashed for his folly.
	Young man or young woman just commenc-
ing life! Be true to yourself; act your own
character; live the life for which you were in- 
tended, and you will succeed and be honored,
as surely as God intended you should. But if
you strive to be another than yourself, or to fill
a place for which you were never designed,
you will fall, as would fall the exotic before
an Arctic blast, or melt like the iceberg in the
tropics.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SIMILARITY BETWEEN OUR POSI-
TION AND THAT OF THE
EARLY SAINTS.

	The threats and boasting which we have
heard from the would-be demolishers of Zion's
bulwarks, and the vain attempts that they have
made to bring about this end, has often re-
minded me of a story told of a certain rich
man who built a high and powerful wall for
the protection of his estate, which was as thick
as it was high, and cemented together so that
it was impenetrable, defying all the attacks
that were made upon him, which invariably
ended in the chagrin and discomforture of his
foes. After trying many times without success
they bethought themselves that the wall might
be turned over could they find men enough to
unite in this plan. They sent far and near and
gathered up a mighty host, and the feat was
accomplished, but lo, and behold their dismay
when finding the wall still standing as high and
strong as before, shutting them away from the
coveted treasures which they had sought so hard
and so long to obtain. The would-be destroyers
of the latter day Israel might as well under-
take the task of removing these mountains, or
stopping the mouth of the volcano which has
lately opened in the Sierra Madre, pouring forth
its boiling water and vast waves of lava, and
boulders weighing tons, hurling down from the
crater, filling up the cañons, and destroying
all vegetation in the valleys in that vicinity, as
to try to impede the growth of this mighty
work, or the filling up of these valleys by the
emigration from the various nations on this
earth, and from the world of spirits which God
has declared should be, and has set His hand
to accomplish.
	We do not claim that the wisdom, knowledge,
or power of man has held together the people
called "Mormons," as the world are lead to be-
lieve, but that of the Great Master, who has
founded it upon the Rock of Ages. For the
profit of those who are inclined to doubt this,
and its being what it represents, the Zion that
was to be "established in the tops of the moun-
tains," preparatory to the second and glorious

[Column 2]

advent of the King of kings. I submit the
following from the history of the primitive
Christians during the three first centuries: The
Jews "employed the most rigorous punishment
to compel them to blaspheme and renounce
Jesus Christ. They cursed them three times a
day in their synagogues, and their rabbies
would not suffer them to converse with Chris-
tians on any occasion. Nor were they contented
to hate and detest them, but they dispatched
emissaries all over the world to defame them.
They accused them, among other things, of
worshipping the sun and the head of an ass;
they reproached them with idleness and being
a useless set of people. They charged them
with treason, and endeavoring to erect a new
monarchy against that of the Romans. They
affirmed that, in celebrating their mysteries,
they used to kill a child and eat its flesh. They
accused them of the most shocking incests, and
of intemperance in their feasts of charity. But
the lives and behavior of the first Christains
were sufficient to refute all that was said against
them, and evidently demonstrated that these
accusations were mere calumny, and the effect
of inveterate malice."
	When they were interrogated in order to
learn, "whether they were really Christians,"
they were threatened "with death if they did
not renounce this religion." And because
they "persisted in their confession" they were
lead to punishment by order of the governor of
Pontus ad Bythinia," though they declared
that "their whole crime, if they were guilty,
consisted in this: That on certain days they
assembled "before the sun rise to sing alternate-
ly the praises of Christ, as of God, and to
oblige themselves by the performance of their
religious rites, not to be guilty of theft, or
adultery; to observe inviolably their word, and
to be true to their trust." The governor to in-
form himself still farther of this matter, put
"to the torture two of their women servants."
whom they called "deaconesses;" "But," he
says, "I could learn nothing more from them
than that the superstition of this people is as
ridiculous as their attachment to it is astonish-
ing." "The purity of the Christian morality,"
which was "directly opposite to the corruption
of the Pagans, was one of the most powerful
motives of the public aversion' that was felt
towards them, and the prejudice was so strong
against them because of the calumnies that
were unjustly spread about by their enemies,
that the Pagans condemned them without in-
quiring into their doctrine, or permitting them
to defend themselves."	*	*	"But,
notwithstanding the violent opposition made to
the establishment of the Christain religion, it
gained ground daily, and very soon made sur-
prising progress in the Roman empire. In the
third century there were Christians in the
camp, in the senate and in the palace; in short,
everywhere but in the temples and theatres;
they filled the towns, the country and the
islands. Men and women of all ages and con-
ditions, and even those of the first dignities
embraced the faith; insomuch that the Pagans
complained that the revenues of their temples
were ruined. They were in such great num-
bers in the empire, that, as Tertullian expresses
it, "were they to have retired into another coun-
try, they would have left the Romans only a
frightful solitude."
	What the Latter-day Saints have received
from the hands of professed Christians for over
half a century is so similar to what was inflicted
upon them in those days, that one would sup-
pose that no intelligent believer in the Scrip-
tures could help setting them down as the only
true followers of Christ. The other sects have
no warfare with man or devil. He has no fear 
from those who deny the spirit of prophecy and
revelation, etc., and unite in persecuting those
who listen to the testimony of the Holy Ghost,
and accept God's word, who declared that

[Column 3]

"miraculous signs shall follow them that believe."
No principle or organization in this Church
ever originated in the brain of Joseph Smith,
or Brigham Young, but were revealed from on
high, and put in practice by a free, God-loving
and God-fearing people, who sought and ob-
tained a testimony for themselves from the high-
est source. And this is the secret of their will-
ingness to walk together in a newness of life,
and their anxiety to gather to the fountain
head, that they may feast more fully upon the
word of God, being no longer satisfied with the
chaff,and this is why so many,many thousands of
the various nations are flocking yearly to these
valleys. This is what enables the humble
Saint to endure so calmly and patiently the
scoffs of the world, and to be "beaten with many
stripes," and even to lay down their lives like
the ancient followers of our beloved Savior.
	In the beginning, this Church was made up
of the descendants of men and women who
were accustomed to defending themselves
against unlawful encroachments whenever or
wherever their rights were infringed upon, and
to resent the same; but the Gospel of Christ en-
ables them to subdue that feeling to a great ex-
tent, and to endure many wrongs rather than to
do wrong.
	As unlikely as it may seem to those not con-
versant with the history of those early times,
some of the very principles which the Saints
were ridiculed, scourged, and many laid down
their lives for advancing—being considered
doctrines of devils—have since been caught up
and taught in some new light, but which had
been perfectly familiar to the Latter-day Saints
from their first adoption into the faith of the
true Gospel. Among the reasons given for per-
secuting them in the beginning was that they
believed and accepted what their enemies in
their ignorance deemed a new doctrine, which
had been introduced by a poor, obscure, and
unlearned boy, and who claimed to have seen
and conversed with holy messengers, that were
sent to deliver the everlasting Gospel in its
purity, as taught by our Savior anciently. All
new revelations were considered heresies, and
in their blindness and superstition the Chris-
tians pronounced them blasphemous and pre-
posterous, the same as did the wise judges and
Pharisees in the case of the poor Nazarene,
who sprang from obscurity and practiced his
"artifice" among the low, ignorant and profane,
but whose influence at last extended to persons
of wealth and standing, won over to the faith
of this "Sabbath breaker," who dared to travel,
to pluck corn on that day. and even to help up
the ox that had fallen into a ditch, and had
broken over their pious rules to that extent
that in their hot displeasure those scrupulous
souls, thinking their holy synagogues were pol-
luted, and finding their efforts useless to render
this man obnoxous to his followers, thirsted for
his blood until their malignant and fiendish de-
sires were satiated in the torture and agonies of
the son of God. No other reasons were brought
forward for this persecuting, mobbing, killing
and driving the people from the borders of civi-
lization. "Mormon" plural marriage did not
vex the souls of our torturers at that period of
our history. Not long since we were told that
this was the only thing that was offensive in
"Mormonism," and that if we would lay this
aside "and become like them" we should be pro-
tected, and all would be well. But we were
aware that this was but "moonshine," and if we
gave up one principle there would be other re-
quirements made at our hands, all of which we
were very soon called to experience. Like the
Jews, they close their eyes and their ears to
truth, mercy and justice, and would, like them,
cry, "Crucify Him, crucify Him," were Christ to
come to them in the guise of a carpenter's
son.
		HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	May 2nd, 1887.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE COMING OF THE SON OF MAN.

A trump shall sound both long and loud,
And all the earth shall quake,
	Ere Jesus Christ, the Son of God,
	Shall come and dwell upon the sod
At Zion's centre Stake.

And ere that great and glorious day
Great signs are to be given;
	The sun shall hide its rays of light,
	And day shall be as dark as night,
And stars shall fall from heaven.

The moon as crimson blood shall turn,
Woe to the fields of corn;
	Descending hail shall beat and spoil
	The growing crops upon the soil,
And men shall weep and mourn.

And in that day God's wrath shall fall,
So great His indignation;
	Strange pestilence shall infest the land,
	And evil doers shall not stand
God's vengeance and vexation.

And in the earth, deep underneath,
Shall be a rumbling sound,
	As distant thunder heard to roll,
	And earth shall shake from pole to pole,
Above and under ground.

The tides shall leap their present bounds;
So great is the commotion 
	The hearts of men on earth shall fail, 
	And woe to those whose hoisted sail
Is sailing on the ocean.
	
A second angel trump shall sound,
And through the heavens flying,
	The angel shall he heard to say,
	"'Tis God Almighty's judgment day"—
All men shall hear him crying.

A wondrous sign shall then appear
Midst heaven's liquid space,
	And men shall see it with their eyes,
	While yet it tarries in the skies,
Ere Christ shall show His face.

And then the great and glorious day
Hath come, the pure in heart
	Shall be caught up from earth to greet
	The Son of Man, whom they shall meet—
The wicked shall depart.

Then Christ shall dwell with men on earth
To the Millennium's end;
	To Him who for our sins hath died,
	Whom men on earth hath crucified,
All knees on earth shall bend.

Who shall be ready in that day
To have their sentence passed,
	By Him whose ever searching eye
	Into our secret thoughts can pry?
The first may then be last.

Be merciful, O God! and kind,
We are Thy children all;
	And in that great and glorious day,
	Our sentence, be it what it may,
Let vengeance lightly fall.

		A. A. TANNER.
Oakley, Idaho, April 30, 1887.


[Column 1]

HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY.

	Household economy is a subject that every
famiiy ought to understand, whether rich or
poor. Economy is a great blessing, especially
to those who are in a measure restricted in the
comforts of life. All people should study to
provide for themselves according to their means
or station in life.
	Never go in debt for one dollar unless you
can see your way clearly through. It is no dis-
grace to wear poor clothes; better that than
good ones not paid for. Never purchase any-
thing too costly to correspond with your be-
longings, as it will only create a desire for more

[Column 2]

to match it, and it is easier to suppress the first
desire than all that follow it, and one is apt to
go beyond her means if she make such a begin-
ning. Make what you have look as nice as you
can, and don't envy your neighbors what they
have if it is better than yours. We ought to
be able to create a public sentiment in favor of
economy. By careful economy, living within
our means and saving a little, we may enter the
road of assured prosperity. It is that which is
saved, not what is made, which constitutes na-
tional as well as individual wealth. Never be
ashamed of economy; study it, practice it, make
a duty and a pleasure of it. We are taught
that it is a sin to waste, therefore let us remem-
ber, when our meals are over, to save what is
left, and make sure of it in some way. Never
throw a piece of bread away, as stale bread
makes very nice puddings, and may be made
use of in several ways. Study how you can
use up the scraps and bits to make dishes
nourishing and palatable. A great many have
the knack of using them up in a very appetiz-
ing way. Of course the leavings from dishes,
kettles, etc., can be given to domestic animals.
You may say these are trifles, but one's life is
made up of seconds, and many cents make a
dollar.
	We should be economical with all household
belongings. If the furniture gets scratched,
varnish it; if the carpets get soiled, wash and
color them, and don't think when things begin
to look shabby that they must be replaced by
new ones, but study how you can make them
look nice and last as long as possible. As far
as you can use ornaments, laces, tidies, rugs,
mats, etc., and try to make home look pleasant
and attractive. In this way it may be nice
with very little expense. There is no truer
economy than a little good taste. What you
have, have it neat and nice. There is no real
comfort in extravagance or display of style or
pride, but economy is a virtue of life-long bene-
fit.
	Industry and economy go hand in hand, and
idleness creates mischief. Never spend an idle
moment, and you are not apt to be led into by
and forbidden paths. Remember, sister, you
may some day be a wife and mother, and will
make or mar a future household. Every girl
should be taught the business of housekeeping
in all its departments (whether rich or poor)
and it can be well acquired only by each one
taking an active part in the household duties.
With the united efforts and industry of a whole
family it is sure to become prosperous and
happy; and on the other hand, if each one is
extravagant and wasteful and selfish, destroy-
ing all that comes within her reach, regard-
less of time or expense, are apt to, sooner or
later, be brought down to poverty and misery.
And suppose the means does hold out, what
a bad example to set for those that are growing
up and learning the ways of the world. We
should let our light so shine that others can
profit by our example, and always be willing
to impart to others that which we have acquired
through study or invention, as we are in duty
bound to help others all we can. If you know
how to do housework or fancy work never
think you are too busy to teach others, for in
so doing you enable others to economize as well
as yourself.
	What a nice scene is the household work!
The mother assisted by her daughters, all things
in order, nothing going to waste, work done
well and systematically, a place for everything
and everything in its place, a time for work,
a time for books and a time for everything;
each one takes an interest in the house-
hold, consequently they love to stay at
home, love one another's society, always happy
and contented, and think there is no place like
home.
	Let no one think household economy mean
or anything to be ashamed of, neither suppose

[Column 3]

that no ability is needed to practice it. When
we can see how much it embraces, we can
plainly see that there is an ample field for
exercise of the most enlightened education.
Book learning is also needed; there is every day
occasion for its use, and the more readily
artistic knowledge is applied in domestic affairs,
the more readily the work is done, and the
more pleasure is given to the participants there-
in.
	We are not only amply paid ourselves by
practicing economy, but just see how much
better the heads of the family will feel, and
how much happier and more contented they
are when they see everyone striving to help
herself and to help one another, and if we
learn to economize in small things we are sure
to in large ones.
		C. E. W.


A LEAF FROM MY JOURNAL.

	During my stay in India, I was invited one
afternoon in the month of May by a gentle-
man friend, to visit a convent and witness the
imposing ceremony or rather celebration of
Corpus Christi which means the body of Christ.
The celebration consisted of a large procession
of priests, nuns and a mixed assemblage of
men women and children of the Roman Catho-
lic persuasion.
	It was headed by a Bishop of the Catholic
Church, and who is in that denomination a
very high and sacred dignitary. He was
dressed in a rich sacerdotal robe of gold and
silk; under him, carried by twelve acolytes,
was a beautiful silken canopy with gold and 
silver fringe, and before him on a small elabor-
ately designed platform was the model of a 
beautiful temple of pure gold, of about two
feet in height and must have weighed between
forty and fifty pounds, for it seemed to be
very laborious work for the two priests who
carried it. Inside this temple was supposed to
be the body of Christ.
	Numberless native converts were in attend-
ance dressed very neatly, swaying large and
handsome fans over the bishop and priest; and
others with large trays of refreshments as the
weather was extremly hot.
	The procession and ceremonies were confined
within the beautiful grounds of the convent,
which were very extensive and most tastefully
laid out. After the procession was formed, the
convent bell rang out a chant which was a sign
to move. The priests set up a kind of a wail
in Latin. Then the bishop would take up
he refrain, and after proceeding for a short
distance, he would stop, and the vast multi-
tude fell upon their knees. Then the priests
clustered around the temple and bowed down
to it.
	It seemed to me they were offering their
adoration to the precious metal instead of to
any Deity. This farce lasted about four hours.
I felt thankful to my Heavenly Father that I
was privileged to be a Latter-day Saint, that
I knew better than worship idols, for the Lord
has said, "Thou shalt worship no other God."
		H. F. McCUNE.
Nephi.


A door-plate in Berlin, Germany, bears the
names of three doctors. One is Dr, Tiburtius,
a staff physician; the second is his wife, the
first woman dentist in Berlin, and a graduate
of the Philadelphia School of Dentistry; the
third is the sister of the first, Fransiska Tibur-
tius, a graduate of Zurich, and who, with Miss
Lemus, has charge of a dispensary for poor
women. There are twelve women practicing
dentistry in Germany who were students of
American colleges.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JUNE 15, 1887.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The present time is really an important one in
the history of Utah and must certainly be so con-
sidered by every thoughtful person. The enforce-
ment of the Edmunds-Tucker law has worked
very great hardship, and has been ruinous to the
homes heretofore happy and prosperous, to say
nothing of the broken hearts and blighted lives,
and even cruel deaths of women and children;
these may be looked upon as trifles by those who
are so determined to "disestablish the "Mormon"
Church" and "wipe out polygamy" little things
like these must not stand in the way, certainly not
when they talk about putting to the sword but
assuredly sooner or later there will come a terrible
day of reckoning.
	The peculiar political situation of the Territory
causes uncertainty in business ventures and is
calculated to work the most serious injury to the
best interests of those, who have striven hard to
maintain a permanent condition of temporal pros-
perity for the whole people. It has not been such
an easy matter as some have vainly imagined to
build up this country, with the few resources at
hand, remembering as the early settlers will, that in
former days everything had to be brought more
than a thousand miles overland, and the facilities
within reach were very few for making homes and
building up towns and cities; teams were poor,
there were no "thorough breds" nor "Jerseys and
Durhams" in those days and it was the bone and
sinew of the people that brought about the almost
marvelous changes that transpired in these valleys
of the mountains during the first few years of the
sojourn of the Latter-day Saints here.
	It is not much of a wonder that the veritable peo-
ple of Utah should be interested in her welfare con-
sidering the exertions they have made to make
this a desirable abiding-place, a fruitful garden, a
place of refuge and peace for the weary wanderers,
hunted and driven, persecuted and oppressed for
their religious belief, more than for the practice of
the principles they professed. Who should be so
deeply, so intensely interested for Utah, as those
who actually come here and searched out this
"chosen land," and planted the American flag here
for the first time? Reason and common sense
tell us that it is but simple justice to consider in
any country its founders. The Latter-day Saints
love liberty and freedom, the freedom guaranteed
by the Constitution of the United States. That
freedom was denied to them, and they were ex-
iled from the homes they had made on the banks
of the Mississippi, where they had built up a
flourishing city; they were compelled, at the risk
of all they held dear to make a long journey in-
land to a place then unknown, that they might be
free from molestation, and enjoy the rights and
privileges of true born men and women. This
they did in the face of difficulties and privations
of various kinds, and without any spirit of hatred
towards those who had cast them forth, as it were,
to perish, for it was a perilous undertaking with
such scant preparations as could be hurriedly

[Column 2]

made in the middle of a severe winter, across
what was then known as the Western Frontiers.
Many died by the way, and their resting places
are not even marked, their deaths were untimely
and their graves are unknown, save to Him who
watches over all, and without whose knowlege
not even a sparrow falls to the ground. Many of
those who were spared through all the privations
and hardships, suffered from hunger, cold and fa-
tigue more than can ever be told in words,they have
rightfully earned an inheritance and should be at
least allowed some privileges, and not expected to
bow meekly down and tamely submit to the dicta-
tion of those who have come here when all was
fair weather and clear sailing, on purpose to pos-
sess themselves of whatever advantages the coun-
try afforded, after the land was subdued and made
fertile, the roads and bridges made and the wild
beasts destroyed, and in their arrogance assuming,
because of the unpopularity of the people, who
had made the Territory, superior rights—and de-
clare themselves to be the only "truly loyal citi-
zens" of this great and glorious Republic. The
people of Utah are entitled to local self-govern-
ment; as the jurisdiction of Congress over
the Territories is now understood or misunderstood
there are few rights allotted to those whose mis-
fortune it is to live in a Territory, and therefore as
soon as conditions and population warrant such a 
step, it ought to be the duty of the people to take
such initiatory steps as will open the way for their
admission into the union as a state, that they may
have such a standing as will give them prestige
and rank equal with others, who have long ago out
grown and thrown off their swaddling clothes, and
stand on equal footing with the oldest and the
grandest state in the union, so far as representa-
tion is concerned.
	There could be no more practicable or safe
method for Congress to dispose of the Mormon
problem, that has vexed and perplexed their over-
righteous souls so much and so long, than to ad-
mit Utah into the Union as a state. Probably the
Hon. J. Randolph Tucker would exclaim, Utah
was not a Christian country; he affirmed that this
domain belonged to the United States, and was
wanted for Christian homes; he puts a curious con-
struction upon the term Christian—when he dis-
putes the rights of Latter-day Saints to be entitled
to the term, but as he will not probably have any-
thing official to say in the matter, not having been
returned as a member of Congress, his opinion
will not hurt the cause. And it may come to pass,
after all, that the long wished for boon—statehood
—may be conferred upon Utah, and the people be
in a position to have a voice not only in the local
affairs, but in the national issues on which so much
of the public weal depends. However, the salva-
tion of this people does not depend upon statehood,
not at all. It is an American idea, and has been
engrafted in the education of all American people;
it would give a sort of independence that is inher-
ent in those born in this great and free Republic,
and this feeling is in harmony with the Gospel, but 
if temporal prosperity, such as might possibly result
from becoming a "free and sovereign state,"
should lead this people away into darkness and
error, and to become political demagogues and par-
tisnas, then better be without it. Therefore, one
should feel in this case as in many others, that
"whatever is is right," and after having made the
effort, leave all in the hands of Him who knows
what is for the best and highest good of His chosen
people.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have been favored this season with bouquets
of choice flowers and June roses, fragrant with
sweet perfume, and gracefully given as tokens of
love and esteem from dear friends. Among the
number we recall Sisters Martha McKay, Jane
Cowan, M. M. Barratt, Sarah Jane Cannon, Betsy

[Column 2]

C. Glover, the Misses Wells, the Misses Young,
Misses Woods, Miss Judith Rice and Mr. James
Dwyer.  It is always pleasant to be remembered
with such beautiful gifts, that give expression to
the most delicate sentiments of the human heart.
What would the world be without flowers, silent
messengers of love and friendship abounding with
eloquence?
	MR. EDWARD W. TULLIDGE'S play of Cromwell,
which was written by him some years ago, and
afterwards revised, will be put upon the stage at
the Salt Lake Theatre, on Friday evening, June
24th. It is said by critics and reviewers hereabout
to be an admirable work, and that it does the
author great credit. We hope and trust the pre-
sentation will be a financial as well as a literary
success. Mr. John S. Lindsey takes the leading
part in the gentlemen's role, Miss Georgie Hayne
leading lady. The writings of Mr. Tullidge have
been decidedly popular in and outside Utah, and
the author deserves from the public a crowded
house and liberal patronage, and the play itself
has such merit as entitles it to  be heard and seen
not only here at home among his friends, but
ought to win for him popularity and success
abroad.
	ON Friday, May 20th, 1887, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's
class in obstetrics passed successful examinations,
Drs. W. F. Anderson, H. J. Richards and A. S.
Bowers being the examining board. Certificates
of study were issued to the following named
ladies: Mrs. Mantie J. Shipp, Beaver; Mrs. 
Anna Mohr, Arizona; Mrs. Olive Stringham,
Holden; Miss Martha Merkley, St, Charles; Miss
Minnie and Annie Christenson, Gunnison; Miss
Katie Wells and Miss Annie Richards, Salt Lake
City. After the preliminary exercises, the after-
noon was spent in feasting on the good things of
the earth both physically, intellectually and artisti-
cally. Dr. Shipp has done a great deal of work in
this way, and enters into her labors with a zeal and
energy that ensures success. She aims to have her
students familiar with the minutest details of the
work they undertake, and not skim over the surface
without dipping down into the depths. Her teach-
ing is both practical and thorough.
	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP'S obstetric class passed
their final examination before Drs. Anderson,
Richards and Bowers on Thursday, May 19. Miss
Edna L. Smith, Miss Mabel Park and Miss Millie
Reynolds, all of this city. These ladies deserve
great credit for their close application to the study,
but their efforts were rewarded as was shown by
their successful and brilliant examinations.  It is
difficult to fully estimate the advantages that will
accrue to the community in having young women
so qualified in this branch of medical science.
Dr. Shipp is an indefatigable worker, and has her
occupation at heart, which makes her valuable
teachings felt. When one enters into her work
whole-souled her efforts are much more effective.
Dr. M. C. Shipp has given very interesting lectures
in public places, as well as before her class, and
seems to possess a very happy faculty for adapting
her language to the ideas she wishes to convey,
thereby making the subject clearer than do those
who wrap their thoughts in too many words.
	THE most elaborate preparations to celebrate
Queen Victoria's Jubilee are being made in Great
Britain. Royalty and titled people from various
parts of Europe and the islands of the sea are
wending their way there, or have already landed in
England to be present and witness the ceremonies
on this joyful occasion. No wonder the people of 
Victoria's realm love and venerate her, for the
country has never seen such a long period of 
peace and active prosperity as during the reign of
this wise and judicious woman-Queen and Em-
press. Long may she live, to bless and to rule
with the same characteristic wisdom. Her example
has given as much prestige to her reign as the ju-


dicious and discreet management of the affairs of
the kingdom have to its fame both at home and
abroad. Queen Victoria has proven beyond dis-
pute that a woman may occupy the highest position
in state or kingdom, and yet be a most excellent
mother, and never lose that sweetness and grace of
character which is the inherent gift of womanhood,
and which men are so afraid will be lost when
women are allowed to vote and hold positions of
emolument and trust.
	"THE GREAT CONTEST!" This is the telling
title of a new pamphlet, recently issued from the
Deseret News Office, by Robert W. Sloan, who
spent the past winter, and in fact was in Washing-
ton during the whole of the last session of Con-
gress, and had excellent opportunities to observe
the way in which the Mormon question was treated
upon by men who represent the people of this free
Republic at National Headquarters. The writer
gives to the reader in a concise manner the princi-
pal features in the case, and a great many facts
that are worth knowing. No one can peruse this
little work carefully without getting a pretty good
idea of the whole Mormon situation, as it relates
to the political interests of the people of this Terri-
tory. The author shows up Mr. Tucker in a glow-
ingly unfavorable and un-Christian light. There
never was a speech fuller of inconsistencies than
that of the gentleman just named, and yet he
poses before the nation as a fearless champion of
human rights, and talks in the most pathetic man-
ner possible about the home—the Christian home
—and the one wife, who possesses the whole heart
of her husband, and so on. Mr. Sloan has made
some good and strong points in referring to the
speeches made on the bill, and the book, taken as
a whole, is a valuable acquisition to the libraries
of the home and the people. The price of the
book is within the reach of all, and it is a good
one for reference. For sale at the Deseret News
Office and all the principal book stores in the city
Price 25 cents.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			KIMBALL REUNION.

	The first general gathering of the family of the
late President Heber C. Kimball was held at Full-
er Hill Gardens on Tuesday, June 14 1887, that
day being the anniversary of the birth of Presi-
dent Kimball 86 years before. A committee of
the Kimball boys issued invitations to the family
and friends and arranged a programme for the oc-
casion. There were several hundred assembled
of the members of the family connections and in-
timate friends. In the Hall at the back of the
stand were hung portraits of Heber C. Kimball
and his wives, Vilate Murray and Anna Gheen,
also a portrait of President Brigham Young, his
life-long companion and friend. The two men
were like brothers, and for several years labored
together in the missionary field, both members of
the quorum of the Twelve Apostles and were
afterwards associated together for many years
up to the time of Elder H. C. Kimball's death in
the presidency of the Church. In days gone by
their names were almost invariably coupled to-
gether by their relatives and friends, as Brigham
and Heber, one seldom being mentioned without
the other. Besides these portraits there were
those of Heber P. Kimball, David P., Brigham
W., Jerimiah H. of his sons that are dead and of
his grandson also deceased, and one of his sons
Charles S. who was absent from home and could
not attend.
	On the stand were seated nineteen of his living
sons, all large fine-looking men; also his eldest
daughter, Helen Mar Whitney, and her son Bishop
Orson F. Whitney. Of his widows present we
noticed Presindia L., Ruth R., Mary Ellen., Har-
riet S., Christine G., and Amanda G. Kimball.
There were several of his children both sons and
daughters who were not present, still there was a

[Column 2]
large and notable representation. The master of
ceremonies was the eldest son, William H. Kim-
ball, and the opening exercise was "Auld Lang
Syne" by Held's band. The music was inspira-
tional, and the selection most appropriate. Prayer
was offered by Elder David Candland an adopted
son of the veteran apostle in whose honor the
family convened. The choir under the direction
of Horace G. Whitney with Prof. Evan Stephens
at the organ rendered that grandly significant
hymn, "O ye mountains high," the effect was thrill-
ing and tender. Introductory remarks of a most
touchingly pathetic character were made by Bishop
Joseph S. Kimball, followed by a quartette sung
by the Kimball boys, with clear manly voices in
the very best of time and tune, Prof. Stevens
accompanying them on the organ. Bishop O. F.
Whitney then read a brief sketch of the life of
his grandfather which he had written for the occa-
sion, giving the most remarkable incidents in the
life of this great man whose memory is so fondly
revered by the Latter-day Saints. The article
on Prest. Kimball read by Bishop Whitney will be
published in the Contributor for June. The Bishop
is engaged in writing the life of Heber C. Kimball
in an elaborate work. After the rendering of
the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah," the benediction was pronounced
by Elder Wm. B. Barton. This completed the
morning exercises after which there was an inter-
mission of about three hours, and delicious re-
freshments were served under the trees, on the
grounds, and amusements indulged in and
thoroughly enjoyed.
	About three o'clock the family and guests as-
sembled again in the hall to finish the programme
which had been begun in the morning. First was
a duet by Helen K. Bourne and Florence Whitney,
granddaughters of Heber C. Kimball; Miss
Viola Pratt sang "I stood on the bridge at mid-
night;" and Elder Andrew Kimball gave a reci-
tation. The assembly was then addressed by
President Angus M. Cannon, who made some
very happy comparisons calculated to encourage
and benefit the descendants of the illustrious
Heber C. Kimball.
	During the afternoon by request the eldest son
and daughter and the youngest son and daughter
of Prest. Kimball were introduced to the assem-
bly from the stand. The eldest were Wm. H.
Kimball and Helen Mar Whitney children of
Heber C. and Vilate Murray Kimball
and the youngest were Leonard L. and
Abbie Kimball children of Heber C. and
Mary Smithers Kimball. There are now living
of this large plural family 25 sons and 11 daughters,
36 in all. Such gatherings are commendable and
exceedingly interesting. They are productive of
great good, promoting harmony and increasing
love and affection among the members from gen-
eration to generation. There were a very large
number of grandchildren and great grandchildren
present. It was a scene and a time long to be re-
membered by all who were there, not only mem-
bers of the family but invited guests. The good
feeling and spirit that pervaded the meeting and
the association together was sufficient to prove the
love and unity that exists in large families, as well
as small ones, and coming from several parts of
the Territory, some not having seen each other for
several years, it must be a source of joy and grati-
fication to meet as they did there in social enjoy-
ment. It is hoped that this first gathering of the
Kimballs will be the initiative for many more and
that the increase of his posterity will continue to
grow and spread forth while time shall last.
	These lines were written for the reunion:
		Let Kimball families everywhere
		With joyful hearts and hands prepare
		To spend in friendship and goodwill
		A holiday at Fuller's Hill,
	
		In memory of his honored name,
		The hero of prophetic fame,

[Column 3]
		Now held in sacred love and praise
		By all the Saints of Latter-days.
		
		Released from care and earthly loads,
		He sits in council with the Gods,
		While those He left on earth behold
		The things which he so oft foretold.

		The gifted and prophetic seer
		Looks down upon his children here,
		And loves to see them leal and true,
		And carrying out his counsels, too.

		The staff of innocence and youth,
		And dauntless advocate of truth:
		Things seen through his prophetic glass
		Were always sure to come to pass.

		Among the first to open doors
		And raise the flag on British shores,
		What precious seed he scattered there
		In answer to the contrite prayer.

		Though never blest to see him here,
		His righteous memory I revere;
		And oft his journal I have read,
		And tears of admiration shed

		While musing on his generous love
		In drawing human hearts above,
		And pointing out the narrow road
		That, leads them back to heaven and God.

		Like tiger merging from his cave,
		Or lion in his manhood brave,
		His keen reproof to age and youth
		Was sharpened by unvarnished truth.

		A friend so staunch, so true and tried,
		Unwavering by the Prophet's side,
		When persecuted hearts were wrung—
		And still the same to Brigham Young.

		And in Missouri's darkest hour,
		A king in majesty and power;
		When demons wrecked the fair Nauvoo
		We know the scenes he waded through.

		The celebration now begun
		Should be a universal one;
		And Kimball hearts with grateful tears
		Repeat it through succeeding years.

							JANETTE PATON.


JEALOUSY.

	To fully describe this passion would require a
philosophical elucidation which I shall not attempt
in this short article; but simply offer a few reflec-
tions in relation to it.
	It is claimed by some of the lords of creation
and perhaps not without some justification that
woman is not naturally a philosopher, being
governed more by intuition than by the slower
method of reasoning from cause to effect; but I
believe it has never been denied that her conclu-
sions, though reached much more quickly are
often as correct as man's, especially upon those
matters in which she herself is interested.
	In all the works of the great Creator we behold
a most beautiful harmony; hence, man's gifts and
endowments are strictly in keeping with his organ-
ism; while his follies and weaknesses are decided-
ly masculine and wherever seen manifesting them-
selves are easily recognized as belonging to the
genus homo.  To say that a weakly woman ex-
hibits feminine traits of character is positively in-
correct for the lack of true manhood either in a
physical or mental sense certainly has no relation
to true womanhood, and I will not be so cowardly
as to attempt to palm off upon man anything that
woman exhibits that seems at all unwomanly. 
	Woman from the very earliest period has occu-
pied a distinct position from man.  The degree of ele-
vation to which she has attained has been de-
termined by the intelligence of the age in which
she has lived.  An age of barbarism has invaria-
bly been an age of slavery for her; while an age of
enlightenment has invariably placed her by the
side of man as an help-meet for him.  And I take


[column 1]
it that the two spheres, though dissimilar in many
respects, yet when legitimately occupied will pro-
duce no jar or friction whatever.
	I have sometimes asked myself the question.
Is the condition of women upon this earth an ab-
normal one, that she should at any time feel in any
degree whatever, jealous of her husband? And
again, can a passion so destructive in its character
and results be a part of her nature? and here I
confess I am stopped for want of a philosophy to
answer my question to my full satisfaction and my
intuition upon this point is sadly at fault also.
	To say that jealousy is an outgrowth of love I
do not believe for one moment, for the one is the
very antipodes of the other; dissimilar in every
respect. Love is confiding and trustful; jealousy
is suspicious and distrustful. One exhibits an en-
tire absence of selfishness while the other ex-
hibits it to the highest degree. Love draws;
jealousy repels. Love would sacrifice its own life
for the object of its affection; Jealousy would
murder the being it mistrusts, and glory in the
vengeance, claiming it had committed the deed
because of love. The two passions cannot oper-
ate together for they are antagonistic to each other,
and as exhibited by mortals, the one seems to be
of God and the other of the evil one; for while the
one tends to life the other leads to death; and as
Solomon says, “Is as cruel as 'the grave,” while
“love is stronger than death.”
	Jealousy, as far as woman is concerned, seems
to be tracable to the time when she was placed
under a ban by the Almighty in the Garden of
Eden when he said, “Thy desire shall be to thy
husband etc,” which desire we cannot view in the
abstract only as a curse and unless this feeling is
held under strict control will always prove to be
such;
	Man’s unfaithfulness to woman in the keeping
of his marriage vows as exhibited in the monoga-
mous relation has fanned the flame of jealousy
and caused the fire thereof to burn with such in-
tensity for so many generations past as to almost
preclude the idea of its ever being extinguished.
Woman's distrust of man has become an estab-
lished tradition, leading her to question if the
time will ever come when a consummation
so devoutly to be wished" shall be reached?
We answer, yes. That time will come and will 
be brought about by the power of the Gospel un-
der whose influence man and woman will be
brought back into the presence of God, freed not
only from the power of the curse, but from the 
curse itself; which, as I view it, belongs exclusive-
ly to a fallen earth. The provisions of the Gos-
pel are ample and cover the entire ground over
which the curse reaches, or in the language of the 
poet "Far as the curse was found." One of the 
provisions which the Gospel makes is that a faith-
ful man is entitled to more than one wife and
strange as it may appear the acceptance and prac-
tice of this very principle will secure to us victory
over this passion as nothing else will; for if its
practice, as our opposers claim, naturally tends to
the strengthening of this passion then may we
question its heavenly origin. In proof of my po-
sition I will appeal to those of my sisters who 
have received the doctrine as from God, and who 
have entered into its practice with this faith in 
their hearts and ask you, If you have not obtained
thereby a power over this passion which you could
not have done otherwise? I know the answer in
nearly every instance will be most emphatically
in the affirmative. Then in this regard are you
gradually coming out from under the curse, and 
that, too, upon the most simple principle imaginable.
By subscribing to God's law. For, instead of be-
ing jealous, you esteem and serve all the more the
men who honor this law.
	Those of my sisters who in feeling and faith 
are opposed to this principle but have yielded
thereto merely from a fear of doing wrong, they 
are to-day in a greater or less degree victims to
[column 2]
this bane of their life and suffer severely from a
passion that can only be conquered by a willing
obedience to law. Right here I make bold to
state that there is less distrust and suspicion ex-
hibited in the families of polygamists than in the
families of monogamists; the howlings of the
Utah ring, and the Christain world to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	Marital infidelity in monogamous families in the
Christain world is the rule rather than the excep-
tion; while marital fidelity in polygamous families
among the Latter-day Saints is the exception (and
a very marked exception) rather than the rule.
Hence this cause of jealousy is so far removed.
True, there may remain what we term petty jeal-
ousies, that have their origin in trifles that are not
worth naming, which the best of us feel at times.
annoyances, which are more often the result of
physical conditions than anything else, and conse-
quently but short lived and therefore not neces-
sarily destructive in their character. But the
jealousy of which I am treating is most destruc-
tive; for if the individual who is a victim to this
passion does not seek the ruin of the person of
whom she is jealous, then it is like a consuming
fire in her own bones producing untold misery,
until death comes to her relief. It is a passion
capable of extinguishing every other feeling, re-
ducing its victims to the condition of abject
slavery, and holding them in the most absolute
bondage.
	In this one instance there is shown the superiori-
ty of the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus
Christ, a dispensation of which is committed to
us, imparting as it does power to the individual
who receives it to overcome all things and the
Revelator John says of such, that they shall eat
of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the
paradise of God, which tree was closely guarded
when Adam and Eve were driven from the Gar-
den of Eden, but to which now, after having over-
come, they have free access, and by eating the
fruit thereof, will "live forever."
							AUNT RUTH.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


(AN INTERESTING GATHERING.
	In honor of Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, President
of the Relief Society of the 15th Ward of this
city there was an interesting gathering at the Re-
lief Society Hall, where a few invited guests par-
ticipated with the sisters of the ward in expres-
sions of esteem and love, and in social enjoyment
at the same time. There was singing and a prayer,)
after which a written address was read by Sister
Elizabeth Duncason, who is the President of a 
Committee in the Society, and during the reading
a memorial picture, in which many of her co-labor-
ers in the ward were handsomely grouped around
her, was presented to Sister Kimball as a token of
the high esteem in which she is held by them.
	Sister Kimball made a loving response, in which
she said, "The sisters have captured me, and I am
for the time being their subject; this representa-
tion of friends will, when located in my home, be
a precious memento. I desire to be worthy of the
love and appreciation so beautifully expressed."
	Appropriate speeches were made by Sisters M.
Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith and Jeanette
Yates, expressing love, respect and appreciation.
	Sister Ann Duncason said she had invited Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith, who, although not able to
attend, had sent her love and best wishes to all
the sisters, and felt to bless all who had so kindly 
remembered their president.
	Sister Elizabeth Duncason expressed her ap-
preciation of Sister Kimball's labors, and that she
had been a blessing to the sisters associated in the
ward, and to her especially.
	Sister Rebecca M. Jones thought there had
generally been a very good feeling among those
who had labored together for so many years as a


quorum of sisters, and that their president had
been very efficient in directing the efforts of those
associated with her, and hoped she would live
long on the earth to bless and help those among
whom she was called to labor.
     Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke for a short time
and said she thought if the sisters would unite
their faith she would like to hear Sister Kimball
bless the sisters in the gift of tongues.
     Sister Kimball expressed a wish that the Lord
would give her His Spirit to bless the sisters in
that gift; and she then spoke in tongues, blessing
all.  Sister Young gave the interpretation, which
was full of instruction, comfort and blessings to
the sisters.  After singing, the assembly was dis-
missed with prayer by Sister M. Lois Morris.
     Refreshments were then served, and after all had
partaken several songs were sung.  Sister J. I.
Jones sang, "Take me back a child to mother;"
Sister M. Lois Morris sang, "Ever of Thee;"
Sister C. Schoonhalls sang, "An Alpine Warble;"
Sister Jones sang, "I cannot sing the old songs"
and "Auld Lang Syne."  The sisters then joined
in singing, "Hard times come again no more."
They had been conversing much upon the early
days in the valley, and the hardships and priva-
tions of the people during that period.  Dismissed
with prayer by Sister B. W. Smith.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			RICHMOND.
	The Eighth Annual Meeting of the Rich-
mond Primary Association was held June 1st,
1887, at 2 p.m. A short but excellent pro-
gramme was rendered by the little children,
consisting of songs, duets, recitations and dia-
logues. Our Primary Martial Band, consist-
ing of eighteen little boys, under their efficient
leader, James Davenport, who takes great in-
terest in teaching them, rendered some sweet
selections from the Primary Music Book. The
same officers were sustained for another year.
	Stake Prest., Jane E. Molen, was pleased to
see so many aged people and parents present.
"The little boys in Richmond are always to the
front." Congratulated the Primary Band for
discoursing such sweet music.
	Acting Coun. Emma Pike said we should be
kind to the aged and infirm. "Be good boys
and girls, and God will bless you."
	Instructive remarks were made by Sister
Martha Williams of Smithfield, Sister Cornish
of Coleville, Hannah T. Brower, Bishop W. S.
Skidmore and Coun. C. Hyer of Richmond.
	Hannah T. Brower read some original verses
on the Primary Band, after which Prest. Mary
Allsop asked for the faith and prayers of the
parents to enable her to teach the children the
principles of the Gospel.
	A good spirit prevailed, and all enjoyed
themselves, and felt that we had had a feast of
fat things.
	Statistical and fiinancial report of the Rich-
mond Primary Association, commencing June 
1st, 1886, and ending June 1st, 1887: Num-
ber of officers,7; members, 225; total of officers
and members, 232; average attendance, 100;
meetings held, 49; cash remaining in treasury
from previous year, $3.40; cash received from
members during the year, $5.80; proceeds from
Primary fair, $14.15; received from Relief So-
ciety, $5; donations from parents to Primary
Band, $20 80; proceeds from theatre, $36 65;
total, $85.80. Disbursements: Paid for writ-
ing materials, $1.25; to Stake Presidency, 50 
cts.; for instruments for Primary Band, $49.50;
presented to leader of band, $13; paid for tuition,
$6; material for costumes, $15.55; total, $85.80.
Property on hand, $10.
			MARY ALLSOP, Prest.
			LATIE J. HENERICKS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOOD TIME.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	On the 7th inst. the Stake officers of the Re-
lief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. showed
their esteem for Sister Julia P. Lindsay, Prest.
of the Relief Society of the Bear Lake Stake,
and appreciation of her assiduous labors, by
meeting at her residence in Paris 2nd Ward,
accompanied by a choice picnic. The good sis-
ter was surprised in the literal sense of the
word, when she saw the numerous vehicles draw-
ing up before her door.
	After the company had appropriated the
house to their use, and Sister Lindsay had be-
come accustomed to the changes which had
taken place, there were about two hours spent
very pleasantly, and those present were regaled
with sweet music, which was discoursed by
Professor Heisel; also beautiful singing by the
ladies.
	At 5 o'clock p.m. Sister L. M. Hart read an
article written for the occasion, setting forth
the sentiments of the sisters, and their good
feelings toward Sister Lindsay; she also pre-
sented the hostess, in behalf of the company,
with a beautiful cashmere dress and shawl.
The recipient of the gift replied very appropri-
ately, by expressing the pleasure which the
kindness of the sisters had afforded her, and
by thanking them profusely for the gift.
	A sumptuous supper was then served, of
which all partook heartily. The company
then adjourned to the parlor, where they were
entertained for an hour or two with speeches
and recitations by the sisters, and music by the
Professor, until 7 o'clock p.m., when the ladies
re-entered their carriages and returned to their
homes, leaving the hostess in the best of spirits,
and feeling themselves that the day had been a
pleasant and successful one.
			Yours respectfully,
		ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Stake Sec.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


NO TIME.

     What becomes of the time?  We have all
the time there is, and yet everywhere we hear
the cry of no ttme!
     "I have no time to read!" says a busy women.
"I have no time to visit says a busy man.
     And looking around among our friends, we
find that very few of them think they have 
time for anything.
     Everything is on the rush.  We all go by
steam, and we are looking forward to the time
when we shall go by lightning.
     Now, what is the need of all this hurry?


What particular purpose does it serve? Is the
world any better or wiser for it?
	No time!
	In many respects our grandfathers were
wiser than we are. They took time to do
well, and never hurried about it. They kept
hides in the tan-pit five years, and they had
leather when it was wanted—leather which de-
fied water and wear, and was a satisfaction to
the sole of man!
	They were years getting out the timber and 
shaping it into houses, and they courted their
sweethearts while they fashioned the nests for
them, and the consequence was that some of
the houses are standing to-day, and no wind
which has ever swept over sea or land, has been
powerful enough to tear these solid timbers
apart.
	And they took time to get their wives, and
the consequence was that there were no suits
for separation based on "incompatility," or
"lack of affinity," and a lawyer who "obtained
divorces without duplicity" would have starved
to death in those days in about six weeks.
	And right here let it be said that a man
should never grudge the time he spends in
courting. He wants to go a little slow, for
therein lies most of the sweetness.
	And it is often the case that he takes more
solid comfort with the girl before he marries
her than he does afterward. For, before mar-
riage, he and she both are dressed in their best
clothes, and they wear their best smiles, and
have the sweetest sides of their character out,
and everything is lovely.—Selected.


THE PRESENT SITUATION.

	In reflecting upon the situation of affairs to-
day one is apt to wonder why and what is the
cause of this strife and turmoil that exists.
To look at the position that the government is
taking against the Latter-day Saints, one is
apt to wonder what is going to be done? What
course the Saints will pursue?
	In my opinion there is only one course for
us to take.  I have reflected upon the princi-
ples advanced by our enemies and find there is
no saving power in them.  They are also with-
out power from God to act in his name.  Hence,
their labors are vain to look at this from our
stand point.  They do not attempt to advance
principles superior to those practiced by the Lat-
ter-day Saints.  Then, as I said before, there is only
one course for us to pursue.  Study those prin-
ciples that are designed to save and exalt us;
become more and more familiar with them;
make them a part of our lives.  Let us never
swerve to the right or left in maintaining those
principles we know to be right.  Under these
circumstances our enemies will think more of
us even though they persecute us, and God will
be pleased to own us as his children.  There
is one thing certain the Latter-day Saints are
right in their convictions or they are, as the
world says, the greatest imposters on the earth;
because the principles advocated by them are
calculated to lead even thinking people astray.
The principles of the Gospel should be first and
foremost with the rising generation.  They
should gain a knowledge of them and be able
to prove beyond successful contradiction their
truthfulness.  As the motto of our paper
is, "No excellence without labor," it is just as
applicable in this direction as any other.
	I hope that more of our young people will
become interested in this study.
	Always wishing for the welfare and pros-
perity of the young, I remain,
			Respectfully
						I. H. GRACE.


WHAT THE CHILDREN DID.

     On the 2nd of June the Primary at Leam-
ington gave a surprise to the President, Sister


Mary G. Pay.  It was the day of the meeting
of the Relief Society, and the birthday of Sis-
ter Pay.  Just before the close of the meeting,
the Primary children came tripping in with a
basket of good things, accompanied by the First
Counselor, Sister Jane Morgan, and singing,
“Gladly meeting, kindly greeting.” They also
made the President a present from their own
small contributions of five and ten cents each,
without calling on any one for means.  There
was a regular programme of dialogues, recita-
tions and songs by the children.  The secretary
read an address as follows:
     In honor of the birthday of the President
of our Primary, Sister M. G. Pay, we are as-
sembled here to-day to pay our respect by giv-
ing her a surprise, which we hope has been a
success, and praying that she may see many
happy returns of her birthday.
				FLORENCE ROGERS, Sec.
     The President made a few remarks in response,
thanking them for the honor conferred upon her,
and the good feeling that had prompted it, and
hoping to take a course in the future to merit
the confidence of all associated with her in the
same work.  It was really an enjoyable time
for the children and those interested in their
welfare.


PRETTY AMELIA REEVES.

     Miss Amelia Reeves, the author of "A Brother
of Dragons," is descended from one of the first
families of Virginia, and has all the personal
charms and graces of manner that distinguish
the "F. F. Vs."  She is a little above the me-
dium height, slender and willowy.  She has
one of those figures whose very lines are poetry.
Her face is longer than the strict laws of
beauty allow, but it is faultless in contour.
She has large brown eyes, whose expression
is roguish rather than intellectual; an olive
complexion, and black hair which falls in 
waves about the prettiest pink ears in the
world.  The chief charm of the young novelist
lies in her conversation.  Miss Reeves has the
reputation of being invulnerable to the
shafts of love.  With her ample fortune—said
to be $200,000—her beauty, and her talents,
she might have selected long ago from several
distinguished Virginia suitors, but she has
steadfastly declined all offers of marriage.  It
is said that she "thinks too much of all the
men to center her affections in one."  Like all
brilliant women Miss Reeves has her eccen-
tricities.  She will dress only in black.  What
is more surprising still, she dislikes flowers, and
will not wear one under any circumstances.
She is as fond of diamonds as an actress.  A 
diamond hair brooch, a diamond breastpin, and
several diamond rings are only a part of the
precious stones on her person.  Though she is
only 25 years old, she eschews the prevailing
fashion of bangs and frizzes.—Selected.


NOTES AND NEWS.	
	Wash silk stockings in warm borax water,
but never iron them.

	Miss Louise Imogen Guiney is about to bring
out a new volume of poems.

	Mme. Marie Dronsart, a French woman, has
written a biography of Bismarch in three
volumes.

	Queen Margharita, of Italy, has established 
an asylum for the blind in the Baths of Diocle-
tian at Rome.

	Fifty-four women have placed their names
on the British Register as duly qualified Medi-
cal practitioners.

	Some old dinner customs still prevail. The


Romans used to recline at their banquets, and
the habit of lying at public dinners still pre-
vails.—Boston Bulletin.

	The Princess of Wales in having her
daughters taught dressmaking has determined
that they shall make some of their own gowns
as an example to poor, but proud, gentle-
women.

	Marie Augustin Despeissis, of London, is a
new departure in the way of women inventors.
She has patented a device for creating a regu-
lar and even draught through the tubes or flues
of steam boilers, which is said to work well.

The Lake Champlain steamer, Water Lily, has
a woman pilot in the person of Mrs. Louise
Daniels, wife of Captain Daniels, of that
steamer. Mrs. Daniels, who is a prepossessing
woman of forty-two years, has just received her
license to act as pilot on Lake Champlain
wrters.

	Prof. Shaler says the actual moving of the
ground in the case of earthquakes is slight; the
Charleston shocks, for instance, probably
swinging the earth to and fro within the space
of an inch. Attention to good masonry in
building would secure immunity from shocks
in most cases.

	Lady Wilde, the mother of Oscar, and the
author of Irish revolutionary poems which she
wrote in 1848 over the name of Speranza, is
living in London it is said in absolute want, be-
cause her Irish tenants have not paid a cent of
rent in six years; yet she will not consent to a
single eviction on her estate.

	Mme. Dieulafoy, who received the Cross of
the Legion of Honor from the French govern-
ment for the help she gave her husband in his
explorations among the ruins of Susa, has a
taste for masculine attire. She found long
skirts inconvenient at Susa, and adopted clothes
better suited to the work. The other night
she shocked Paris by appearing at the theatre
in masculine dress, with the Cross of the Legion
of Honor on her breast. The papers are now
recalling instances of other celebrated French
women from Joan of Arc to George Sand, who
discarded the usual dress of her sex. But Mme.
Dieulafoy probably will not make a practice of 
appearing thus attired, since a French law,
passed in 1857, empowers the police to arrest 
any woman who dresses like a man, unless she 
is armed with a physician's certificate to show
that she does it for the good of her health.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Sorrows are to life what shades are to a
picture—it is only by them the light is re-
vealed.

	The newspaper should become a fountain of
truth and moral influence, and should take its
stand upon some high and good principle, and
assert it boldly in the face of all opposition.—
P. Godwin.

	There is a voice from the tomb sweeter than
song; there is a remembrance of the dead, to 
which we turn even from the charms of the
living; these we would not exchange for the
pleasure of the bursts of revelry.—W. Irving.

	O mothers, do not fold the hands across
your empty lap, and say at fifty, “The story is
told.” If home has been so all-absorbing that
outside interests have fallen away from you,
find the broken thread, or take up a new one,
and you will soon find yourselves among the
world’s creators. The summer sunshine went
with the children, but your autumn may be long


and bright, with real "halcyon days" here and
there. Your daughters, now young mothers,
will feel that your example has given them a
larger life-lease, and the world must needs ac-
knowledge its errors. The promise for the
"golden age" for women is fair, but its realiza-
tion will never be reached until home training
undergoes the needed reformation, and its girls
and women secure a physical poise which shall
give judgment and stability to all their under-
takings. Upon the women of to-day devolves
a mighty task, but, when filled with glory and
honor, it teems with rich possibilities.—Dr.
Elizabeth Chapin.


﻿BARGAIN IN MUSIC.
	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
 bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately. 
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


CLOTHING FOR HOT AND COLD
					WEATHER.

	A good illustration of the changes of temperature to
which the body may be subjected in a brief interval, may
be found on any warm day of summer when a strong north
or easterly wind is blowing. On such a day an individual
sitting in the full blaze of the sun, and well sheltered from
the wind, may feel positively "hot;" while another, equally
well protected from the wind, but sheltered also from the
sun, may feel but comfortably warm; a third exposed to the
full blast of the wind, to the rapid passage over the body of
a colder air, may reasonably complain of being chilled.
Now it so happens that the disorders that depend upon
what is known as catching cold depend for the most part
upon the sudden changes of temperature. "These disorders,
says an authority, "are induced by the removal of heat to
an usual extent from the external or internal surface of the
body." The same writer recognizes three factors in the
probable cause of a "cold"—a low temperature, air in mo-
tion, and moisture; and I think that common experience
teaches us—a propos of these factors—that colds are most
frequent when the weather is cold and windy and wet.
Now, against these evils of sudden change woolen under-
garments afford a trustworthy protection. They isolate
the body. They prevent it from being influenced by the
abrupt changes of temperature that are active around.
Their properties are such that they become the poorest ex-
ponents of those changes. Linen and cotton, on the other
hand, as good conductors of heat, are susceptible to modi-
fications of temperature. They render the body injuriously
au courant with the condition of the surrounding atmosphere
and would encourage it to take part in all the changes.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 16.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1887. No. 3.


LET US WORSHIP GOD.

Let us worship God on the mountains,
	In the valley, on the hill,
Where the wild free harps of nature
	With the grandest music thrill,
Let us worship Him with singing,
	And with the voice of prayer,
And, as He is ever present,
	Let us worship everywhere.

Let us worship God in the winter,
	When the wild winds seek our path,
And we feel the awful presence
	Of the Storm-King in his wrath,
Let us calmly wait nor suffer
	Our fears to overwhelm
The child-like trust that crieth,
	"Our Father's at the helm."

Let us worship God in the spring-time,
	When the beautiful is born,
And we hear the rapturous singing
	Or the birds in the early morn, 
Let us worship Him with gladness,
	Who out of the wintry strife
Hath wrought with unseen fingers,
	Such miracles of life.

Let us worship God in the summer,
	When the earth is in her prime,
When winds, and the wandering breezes 
	Have a soft eolian chime,
Let us worship Him with fervor
	In the forest aisles and bowers,
Where the angels talk with mortals
	Through their alphabet of flowers.

Let us worship God in the autumn.
	When the sighing breezes come,
And, like laborers in His vineyard,
	Sing with joy the "harvest home,"
In all times and in all seasons,
	Through labor and in prayer,
Let us worship God, the Father,
And praise Him everywhere.
							BELLE BUSH.
Belvidere Seminary, Belvidere, N. J.


[column 1]
		THE IDOL OF TO-DAY.
	“Moreover," the Lord saith, “because the
daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with
stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking
and mincing as they go. 	*      *      *      *		
Therefore, the Lord will smite with a scab the
crown of the head of the daughters of Zion,
and the Lord will discover their secret parts,
	In that day the Lord will take away the
bravery of their tinkling ornaments, the chains
and the bracelets and the mufflers,
	The bonnets and the ornaments of the legs,
and the head-bands, and the tablets and the
earrings.
	The rings    *     *      *	 *      *	 the
changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles,
and the wimples, and the crisping pins,
	The glasses, and the fine linen,and the hoods
and the vails.
	And it shall come to pass that instead of
sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of
a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair
baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding
of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty.”
Isaiah, chapter III, verses xvi-xxiv.	
	In choosing this subject for present reflection,
and writing, I do not do so cynically. Too
well I realize the condition of the minds of the
ladies of the present day. They are weak or
foolish enough to think (and sometimes think

[column 2]

aloud) that any one who dares oppose, in word
or act, the tide of fashion, is selfish and con-
servative, and every thought expressed against
their manner of dressing, is an individual and
personal attack. I wish to state that in my
remarks upon this subject, I am neither per-
sonal nor biased against those who choose to
“follow fashion.” Neither am I selfishly de-
fending my own indifference to the dictates of
the fickle goddess. I am unselfishly and cau-
didly considering the matter in as clear and
impartial a light as ray unbiased mind can
throw upon it.
	I claim that I am not conservative. Too
gladly would I behold the progress of enlight-
enment, the advancement of my sex from the
weakness and ignorance of the past. I have
felt how heavily the chains of Eve have hung
upon woman. How often have I prayed for
the redemption of my sex from the false ideas
and aims of the past! How happy was I, when
a dreaming, aspiring girl; to think that I was
born in an age when woman would rise above
the dead level of mediocrity to a higher un-
derstanding and practise of life! I have grown
to maturer and more observant woman-
hood, and among the lost ideals of human
greatness and goodness, among the vanished
dreams of trusting girlhood, is this one. I be-
lieve that women are more enslaved to-day
than ever before, by fetters of their own mak-
ing.
	Converse with the majority of women upon
the subject of the higher education of our sex,
and what is the response? They have no time to
study. Suggest to them to teach their little ones
at home and not send them to school among
rougher natures while so young and plastic.
They have neither knowledge, time, inclination
nor strength. The truth is, their manner of
dressing and living is injurious to the health,
and arbitrary Fashion demands all their leisure
—she will accept no half-hearted worship. We
will know that the object in which we most de-
light, that which requires our greatest atten-
tion and best time, that which we cultivate
with the most persevering assiduity, becomes
also the absorbing element of life; in short,
deny it as we may, it becomes the object on
which we set our hearts. How can a woman,
devoted to fashion, fancy work and fashionable
society, find time to study higher things, or to
cultivate herself to a higher intellectual life?
God has given but twenty-four hours in each
day both to the fashionable and the unfashion-
able, and if that time be devoted to one thing
it cannot be to another. True, we divide our
time between various pursuits, but one side or
the other must preponderate, and our minds
will, of necessity, run in the preponderating
channel.
	The Utopian dream, cherished by many no-
ble minds that woman shall rise to an equality
with man, seems little likely of realization
while the feverish race after this stern goddess
continues at its present heat.
	Why should we depend upon the admiration
of the other sex, or even that of our own, for
our soul’s happiness? Are there not as noble
aims and as high paths for us to tread? Are
there not as great things as thorough knowl-
edge required of us for eternal exaltation as of
our brethren? Oh, this awful ignorance! How
I could weep as I reflect upon it! Do women
sincerely believe that their minds were created
merely to remain as infants in knowledge,while
men march on ahead of them in a constant pro-

[column 3]

gression? Even the reading of a newspaper or
literary magazine does not constitute much
mental food. How very, very few know any-
thing at all about where the paths of Intellect
really lead! Oh, no, they have no time to
learn! And yet speak to them upon our future
destiny and they are all wending their way, as
fast as their sands of time will take them, to
that holy city, whose light and glory is the
glory of intelligence.
	"Art is long and time is fleeting.” Too short
is this life for the accomplishment of too much
good or the acquirement of too much knowl-
ekge; but the little life allotted us is all spent
in living it and trying to look pretty and at-
tracting the love and admiration (?) of the
other sex. Their admiration! Would not their
admiration for something higher and better
be more acceptable to a thoughtful and noble
woman? And after all, man is but mortal and
subject to err, and if a woman must devote her
time and soul to please his eye in order to win
his esteem, that esteem is too hard earned for
anything so trival and fleeting. We say trivial
for the object, a handsome costume, is surely a
poor thing to admire compared with a high,
beautiful, immortal soul, and fleeting,—ah, sis-
ters, you who depend upon fashion to hold for
you the love of husband or lover will discover
soon enough how transient such love can be!
	God’s arm is the arm to lean upon, and the
blessing and power of heaven cannot be called
down by a worship of Mammon, nor the fash-
ions of the world. We cannot serve two mas-
ters and receive the approval of both. God
requires a single eye of devotion unto Him,
and though we may claim that we do not place
our hearts upon the vain things of earth, I sin-
cerely believe that we shall be judged more by
our acts than our words. Ours is a religion of
practise and reality more than abstract theory.
Many will say that our Heavenly Father is too
great to take note of so small a thing as fash-
ion; that He only sees our hearts and judges
us by our good intentions. Yet He is not too
great to count the hairs upon our heads and
has he not sealed his stamp of disapprobation
upon Fashion by the words quoted from Isaiah
in the opening of this article? Truly, He
judges the heart and many of us will be sur-
prised to find how much we had misunderstood
ourselves. I have seen in a chart of the up-
ward and downward steps of life, that good in-
tentions form a very prominent part of the
downward ladder.
	How can the women of this people and of
the present dispensation, with all their profess-
ions of godliness, wink at and encourage these
things when such sure and dire destruction is
threatened against the daughters of Zion. My
sisters, we are too well fulfilling the one part of
Isaiah’s prophecy, and God will as surely ful-
fill his part, unless we repent. Especially
absurd and almost criminal does this en-
couragement seem in those who are placed to
guide the footsteps of the young; and very
censurable are also those of the other sex who
encourage by praise and flattery this gaudy,
silly life-work.
	Aside from this, how is beauty—the beauty
which God created—sacrificed, as it were, to
Moloch! What does the Lord mean by a
stomacher but the cruel corset, that has caused
so much deformity, ill-health, misery and less-
ening of life? Wear it loose? This is not
generally done; the presence of the corset
forms too strong a temptation to wear it tight


[Column 1]
﻿or at least too snug to be healthful and if worn
loose it is of little use except, as some say, “to
support the back.” Oh nonsense! Does any
one suppose for a moment that Eve was sup-
ported by bones and steels? And that outrage
to all modesty and beauty, that disgusting de-
formity of the human form and dishonor to
God’s handiwork and ourselves—the bustle!
How must angels frown and demons laugh to
see our sisters, the daughters of Zion! with
that thing on to mock at and deform the shape
that God has made!
	Then that silly, ignorant fashion, bangs!
Did God give us a seat of intelligence to cover
up? “Let your light shine!” But we are
ashamed of the little light we do possess!
Ashamed of the small intelligence we do enjoy
aud so must animalize ourselves by concealing
the only intelligent part of our physical being!
Am I cynical? Are my words too strong tobe polite? Too harsh to bear out the friendly,
cordial liberty to think and act “as you please,”
the unbiased candor professed in the opening of
this article? No! Every word is prompted by
love and sincerity! But it makes my heart
ache to see the blind devotedness of my sisters
to so unworthy an idol! I am grieved as I
think upon the errors that lead so many
women astray. I feel a desire, with an inten-
sity which I cannot fully express, to point out
a better path, to show clearly to their minds
and hearts that there is a better, a brighter
and a nobler life-path—a path wherein are
germs of much more happiness and greatness
—a proposition which they will not believe.
And I feel like a “lone watcher on the tower,”
whose feeble voice cannot be heard by the
slumbering multitude.
	Oh, that God would grant us power to so
live as to merit a higher desting on earth, and
so secure a corresponding destiny in heavenl
Who can say that our intellectual acquire-
ments are equal to man’s? And will we not
be correspondingly inferior in the hereafter, un-
less we make a courageous attack upon our
present system and overcome folly and ignor-
ance with wisdom and intelligence? And what
woman with one spark of nobleness or ambi-
tion in her heart would be content to contem-
plate eternal inferiority to her sex!
	Where lies this trouble? There has been a
cry for equal opportunities and equal rights.
Those who have rights have also duties, and
“there’s the rub!” I claim that the trouble lies
with the women themselves. To-day their
aims are no higher than just where they stand.
How many a good, intelligent, patient woman
who has devoted her highest efforts to emanci-
pate her sex from political and mental slavery
has had her courage dampened and her hands
tied by the indifference, inappreciation and in-
capacity of  them for whose good she was earn-
estly working! I claim that Fashion is to
blame! Of course, neatness, cleanliness, pur-
ity, inward as well as outward, are a positive
duty. Even a culture of the ideal beauties of
life are not only proper, but necessary—the
highest art and beauty may be studied to ad-
vantage—but not that which emulates pride
and deforms and injures us and makes us
haughty and takes so much of our time that
our minds become dwarfed and narrow, and
unprogressive; not that false beauty that rend-
ers our hearts selfish and unfruitful in the
higher aims of life and indifferent to the ac-
complishment of good and the best ends for
which our beings were intended!
	This rage for fashion is to-day, and has been
for many years a life pursuit, a constant cul-
ture, a positive worship, on whose shrine has
been sacrificed many a noble life. A worship
wafted from the atheist shores France to those
of America and welcomed with joy and adora-
tion by our own sisters, whose aims should have
risen to higher realms with the revelations of
God that re-established the bride of Christ

[Column 2]
upon the earth, for He will not be satisfied
with the half-hearted worship of the present
day.
					RUBY LAMONT.
			Glenwood, Utah, June 27, 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿
THE MUNICIPAL FRANCHISE IN
		DENMARK.
	As might be expected from the similarity in
race, Denmark is the first European country
where the example set by England and Swe-
den in extending local franchises to women is
likely to be imitated. Mr. Frederick Bajer, as
our readers are already aware, brought for-
ward in the Danish Folkething a proposal that
tax-paying women should have the municipal
franchise in Copenhagen. This was passed by
a majority, but the motion was lost in the Up-
per House, and further action must therefore
postponed till next Session. The friends of
the movement in Denmark are now deliberat-
ing what form the motion shall assume.
	The law of municipal franchise in Copen-
hagen is very restricted, no man voting who
does not pay income-tax on 1,000 kronors, or
£55[-] and the proposal to extend the right to
women was part of a larger measure, in which
there were many clauses. One of these was to
extend the vote to men who are rate-paying
citizens of only 800 kronors value, who are at
present excluded. This proposal was so demo-
cratic as immediately to win the hearts of the
majority of the Folkething. Another clause
was to make the methods of voting easier. On
the 16th of March it became known that the
Minister of the Interior was well disposed to
the admission of women to the franchise, pro-
vided it was restricted, as the Icelandic Act of
1882 had been, to unmarried and widowed
women in an independent position in their own
households. On the 21st March the Folke-
thing passed the municipal vote for women by
51 supporters against 15 opponents- Then,
however, it was discovered that the Minister,
although he did not object to the part of the
Bill which had reference to women, did not ap-
prove of the whole; and “moreover,” he added,
“it was in his opinion disadvantageous to make
a local law applying only to Copenhagen, but
it would be wiser to make it a general law ap-
plicable to the whole of Denmark,” giving in
support of his views the example that had
been set in Iceland, where the same question
had been first raised locally (in the little town
of Akueyri) with want of success, but had
afterwards been carried when applied to the
whole island.
	When the Bill came forward in the Lands-
thing on March 29th, it was opposed by Pro-
fessor Matzen, who urged the House not to mix
up the general question of municipal rights
with that of women's suffrage, which was no
part of it, but which might be dealt with in
some general reform. His advice was taken,
and the women's municipal franchise was out-
voted by 38 votes against 14. Had the votes
of the two Houses been taken together, an ex-
amination of the numbers shows that the Bill
would have triumphed. There was no time to
take the question back to the Folkething, as
the Session was closed on April 1st.
	The point for discussion now is, whether the
measure shall be introduced next Session in the
same shape, or be extended so as to include all
the widowed or unmarried women in Denmark
who have hitherto been shut out by sex alone
from voting, but possess every other qualifica-
tion. If confined as before to Copenhagen,
only a very small number of women would be
enfranchised, as those who pay taxes on an in-
come of 1,000 kronors (£55), who alone would
be included, are only 3,800. On the other
hand, if the scheme is to embrace the whole of
Denmark, it must, to be successful, be actively
supported by women themselves. We cannot

[Column 2]
doubt that this will be the case. The Woman’s
Union has already held and is holding meet-
ings for the discussion of this question, and
there seems a very healthy state of activity in
their organisation, which is oonstantly increas-
ing the number of its members.—Englishwom-
an's Review.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING.
	The Twenty-first Ward Y. L. M. I. A. held
a very successful anniversary meeting May 25th,
President Hattie Longmore presiding. The
programme, which consisted of songs, recita-
tions, an essay, and an historical sketch on the
life of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, was most
creditably rendered, Sisters Presendia L Kim-
ball, Elmina S. Taylor Bathsheba Smith and
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson being present. The re-
mainder of the evening was spent in listning
to the words of counsel and instruction which
fell from their lips.
	Bishop Allen expressed his pleasure with all
he had seen and heard, and closed by asking
the blessing of God to rest upon all present.
Meeting adjourned for one year.
				M. E. SCHULL, Secretay.

BARGAIN IN MUSIC.
	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock: Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


The Queen of Holland presented a remarka-
ble gift to the King on his seventieth birthday.
The ladies in waiting carried in an immense 
bouquet, which they placed before His Majesty.
The King was greatly surprised when sud-
denly the top of the bouquet opened, and the
head of his infant daughter peeped out of the 
flowers.
	Miss Lucy Larcom seldom makes plans for
anything; when she says to herself that she
will write something, she is pretty sure not to
do it; and she seldom knows where she is going
till she starts.  Her usual summer resorts are
Centre Harbor and (in August and September)
the higher White Mountain regions.  She is
not now engaged upon any connected work,
but will probably write some verses or sketches
—or both—before the summer is over.


19	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE DEAR DEPARTED.

Another dear one gone forever!
Another glad spirit has flown;
Passed over the dark mystic river
To the land of the Great Unknown.
Approaching almost to its border,
Wave-washed by time’s tide flowing on,
With hand-shaded eyes now we follow,
Seeking after the loved one just gone.
Passing through affliction's deep waters,
With heart’s eager cry to the throne,
“O whither, dear Heavenly Father,
May we seek the spirit now flown?”

All around us reigns silence and shadow,
Mysterious darkness and gloom;
And we pray for an angel of mercy
To roll back the stone from the tomb.

We wonder and question and marvel,
And trace precious names on the stone,
Search through the still cities of marble
In vain for the pure spirit flown;
To heart’s cry comes back the weird echo,
“Never more returning to cheer.”
We shrink back, yet long to pass over
Death's mystical river so drear.

And yet through the cloud of our sorrow,
Hope points away over the heights,
And whispers, “There’ll come a to-morrow,
Whose glory no power can blight.”
Faint falls on our ear the low murmur,
“No harm can the faithful betide;
Weep not, for the tears of the mourner
Are staid, in those realms glorified.”
Time’s current is silently bearing
Precious crafts afar out to sea,
Dear vessels, with heart-treasures laden
No mortal may evermore see;
Yet we trace in a far off harbor,
That touches the evergreen shore,
Now quietly lying at anchor,
White ships whose voyage’s are o’er--
And I know that sooner or later
The summons will come unto me,
And wait for the voice of the Master
That will cheer me o’er the dark sea.

We watch the true signal lights burning,
We trust to reach haven at last,
And with those whose loss we are mourning
Rejoice that all danger is past.

There storms cannot reach us, nor sorrows,
Nor grief shall our spirits appal,
For peace reigns supreme through those borders,
And His love prevails over all.
	L. M. HEWLING.
Atchison, Kansas.


REFLECTIONS ON THE WORD OF
WISDOM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	My Dear Sisters:—The subject I shall take
to treat upon, is one which I consider of vital
importance to every Latter-day Saint, or to
those who aspire to that important position, in
a temporal point of view, and to our temporal
welfare.  This important subject is the Word
of Wisdom.
     Now, dear sisters, don’t shrug your shoulders
or throw your heads with such a contemptuous
toss, although I don’t really think a constant
reader of the EXPONENT would ever indulge
any such feeling, for I think it inspires to a
better spirit and loftier ideas in regard to any
principle connected with our holy religion.
Notwithstanding the subject has been treated
upon so extensively, and scarcely a Sabbath
passes but some of our brethren speak in re-
gard to it; yet how many, yes very many, are
utterly indifferent to its teachings.  There is
not another revelation in the Book of Doc. and
Cov., that is written with such plainness and
simplicity, or as easy to be comprehended as
the one on the Word of Wisdom.  It is adapted


to the capacity of all, who may, or can be called
Latter-day Saints. With a promise that if we
give heed to those sayings we shall run, and
not weary, walk, and not faint, and the destroy-
ing angel shall pass us by as it did the children
of Israel, and not slay us. We are promised
great wisdom, and the proper exercise of this
wisdom, would prompt us to stop running or
walking, before we get weary or faint.
	We, as a people, believe according to the pre-
dictions of both ancient and modern prophets,
that a destroying scourge should sweep over the
earth in the last days. Therefore, the Lord
in His great mercy has given His Saints this
warning, that they, through giving heed to it,
should have great faith given them, that they
may have power to rebuke the power of the de-
stroyer through the exercise of the healing
ordinances.
	But where will our faith be, if we wilfully
neglect to obey these laws that are laid down
for our protection? I am very much afraid, if
we have any at all, it will be very weak. And
again in the commencement of the revelation
the Lord gives the reason for giving this warn-
ing. He says, “In consequence of evils and
designs which do and will exist in the minds of
designing men in the last days, I have warned
you by giving you this word of wisdom by
revelation, and it is connected with their tem-
poral salvation.” Now what evils and designs
will exist in the minds of these designing men,
will it not be to poison or introduce adulterated
compounds into the tea, coffee, tobacco, and
liquors of all kinds to such an extent that it
will corrupt our systems to such a degree that
we will be incapable of resisting disease? while
those who honor this law, their systems will be
pure and uncorrupted by any of these vile
compounds that brings wealth to the producer,
but death and destruction to the consumer. I
do hope and pray that the Saints of God may
have their eyes opened, to the necessity of obey-
ing these laws in their entirety, that they may
have faith to rebuke the power of the destroyer
in their households when the judgments of God
shall sweep the earth.
	SARAH.


QUEEN MARY AND HOLYROOD.
	High up on a ledge, overlooking the dark,
rippling waters of St. Margaret’s Loch, and in
view of the rolling waters of the Forth and
the superb city of Edinburgh, stands the
solemn ruins of St. Anthony’s Chapel, slowly
crumbling away, an ancient edifice once ten-
anted some three centuries ago by Father Ber-
tram—the Monk of St. Anthony—the last her-
mit of Salisbury crags. The cell he occupied
was situated close beside the west wall of the
small chapel, but the foundations of the former
being a few feet lower than that of the latter,
the natural rock formed one of its walls and
gave to it the appearance of being hewn out of
solid stone. It consisted of only one apartment,
sixteen feet long by twelve broad and eight
feet in height and was altogether a hovel of the
meanest description. The furniture consisted
of a bench of dry turf, which served the dou-
ble purpose of a seat and bed, and reached on
one side of the cell from the hearth to the door.
In one corner was a cupboard in the wall, and
above the fireplace in the corner
opposite was a small oven of stone used
for cooking his victuals and baking his bread.
These together with two large stones covered
with turf for his visitors to sit upon, constituted
the tout ensemble of the interior of his lonely
abode.
	This melancholy remnant of bygone ages
overlooks the palace of Holyrood, a place preg-
nant with thrilling memories of the past as be-
ing associated with the history of Mary Queen of
Scots! Ah, if these dumb walls could speak; if these
everlasting hills which embrace this structure in

[Column 2]
their rocky arms could but re-echo the voices
of the past, what a history they could tell in-
dependent of what is already recorded and
handed down to each succeeding generation!
These are the two objects of attraction, con-
nected with the life and times of Queen Mary
to the sight-seer and to the most casual observ-
er, also to anyone who enters the city from the
east by the railroad, and gray and sombre do
they appear. Curious individuals pry into the
crumbling creviced walls and across the grass
grown floor of the ecclesiastical ruin, thinking
perchance to find some relic of monkish order
or to see some sign indicative of former occu-
pancy; whilst others equally as curious strain
their optics, endeavoring to catch a glimpse of
the once bright crimson stain of ill-starred
Rizzie’s blood on the floor of Holyrood, and
some do even profess to see it yet!
	Three hundred years have fled since took
place the execution of Mary Queen of Scotts.
Historic memories are proverbially short, and
in the crush and buzz of daily life little room
is left for contemplation of the “mighty dead.”
Queen Mary’s life and death were so fateful,
so streaked with romance, pathos and tragedy,
that he would be a prosaic Scotsman indeed,
who did not find stirring within him mingled
feelings of sorrow and admiration.
	With the learned controversies regarding
Queen Mary the average reader can have little
to do. It is possible to suspend judgement in
regard to the long controversy which has waged
round the hapless Queen, without losing interest
in her career. There may be some truth in the
political reasons advanced for the jealousy
shown by Elizabeth towards Mary, but not even
the rudeness of the time, nor a belief in Mary’s
badness could justify the Queen of England
in displaying conduct which would disgrace
even a Lady Macbeth. Whatever historians
may think of the ill-fated Queen’s life there
can be but one opinion regarding the simple
and touching heroism of her death. None but
a woman gifted beyond the average, could have
acquitted herself with Mary’s fortitude
on the day of the execution. “I forgive you,” she
said to her executioner,  for now I hope you
shall end all my troubles.” On the scaffold
Mary bade her domestics adieu, smiling and
waving her hand. They stepped back from
the scaffold as the Queen repeated on her knees
the first lines of the psalm—In thee, O Lord,
have I put my trust.” Blindfolded, Mary felt
for the block, muttering as she stretched out
her once admired neck, “In thee O Lord, do I
put my trust, let me never be ashamed.” The
blow was then struck, which brought to a close
a life, which in spite of its frailties, will con-
tinue to touch through all time the hearts of
Scotsmen. It may suit the jaundiced genius of
Froude to depict Mary as a monster of iniquity,
but ordinary people will prefer to admire the
Scottish Queen, while the memory of Elizabeth
will forever be black with the murder of a sis-
ter. 
	N. W. MACLEOD.


Mrs. May Wright Sewall urged in behalf of
woman suffrage, at a recent convention:  First,
that working for woman suffrage commits
one only to a belief that the ballot should be
granted to women, and does not involve one in
the endorsement of any opinion which may be
entertained by leaders of the suffrage move-
ment upon any other question.  Second, that
the doctrine of evolution fortifies the expecta-
tion of the discovery of hitherto, hidden
spiritual forces, as well as of hitherto hidden
physical forces.  A generation that has found
a subtle, invisible vapor hidden in the pores of
deep buried rock, which can heat and light the
world, ought not to be incredulous when as-
sured that the capacities hitherto undreamed
of are discovered in the little-explored in-
tellectual and moral nature of women.


20	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City. Utah.

Salt Lake City,	-	-	July 1, 1887.


[Column 1]﻿
THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	The delegates appointed by the people to frame
a State Constitution for Utah met and organized
preparatory to taking hold of the work yesterday,
June 30 at 12 m., in the City Hall in this city.
The national flag was artistically draped over the
stand, and a white star fringed with gold and
decorated with stars and stripes immediately
above; on the white ground in red and blue “Utah
a State.” Large maps of Utah hung on either
side of the stand. After a temporary organization
and report by a committee on credentials, a per-
manent organization was formed and Hon. John
T. Caine was elected President by unanimous
vote of the convention. Hon. E. G. Wooley of
St. George was elected First Vice-President, and
Hon. J. T. Hammond of Cache Co. second Vice-
President, Heber M. Wells Secretary, and Robert
W. Sloan Assistant Secretary. The President,
Mr. Caine addressed the Convention first thanking
the assembly for the honor conferred upon him,
and expressing his appreciation of their confi-
dence, and the hope that he would be able to dis-
charge the duties of the position to their satisfac-
tion. Mr. Caine then stated the object of the Con-
vention and gave his views upon the position of
Utah and the needs of the people in regard to
representation in the general government, and
particularized the rights of the people and alluded
to the grievances and the disadvantages under
which the people of the territories labored as to
representation; his speech was calculated to
arouse ardent enthusiasm in the members, and
stimulate them to active efforts in order to ensure
success in the undertaking for which they had
come together from all points of the Territory. He
closed his speech with, “Let us be diligent, care-
ful, untiring and devoted to this cause, and our
reward will be in the shouts of “victory,” which
will greet the enrollment of Utah on the records
of the nation, and her star shining on the flag of
our country, gleaming with the loyalty and devo-
tion to this glorious republic of a freed grateful
and happy people.” During the speech Mr.
Caine was frequently greeted with cheers and
applause.  Heber S. Cutler was nominated as
messenger of the Convention and elected. There
was some discussion in regard to the oath being
administered to the delegates and officers of the
Convention, but it was finally put to vote and carried.
Hon. F. D. Richards offered the opening prayer.
An oath was then read which included all the pro-
visions of the Edmunds-Tucker test oath. Final-
ly after some considerable discussion in reference
to the oath, it was amended to conform to the reg-
istration oath adopted by the Utah Commission
and was then taken by the officers and members
of the Convention. A motion was then made by
John E. Booth of Provo, that the Constitution
adopted by a Constitutional Convention, April 27,
1882 and by the people, May 22, 1882, be taken as
a basis on which to work. The motion was
carried. Hon. James Sharp presented a resolu-
tion for the appointment of several committees to

[Column 2]
proceed with the work methodically and the reso-
lution was adopted. The convention then ad-
journed until to day, July 1st.
     There is an intense interest among the people
upon the subject of this convention. It may be
considered by some as a bold stroke under exist-
ing circumstances, but desperate needs require ex-
traordinary exertions and it is a time in the his-
tory of Utah that deserves the best efforts and the
richest thoughts of the best people and the wis-
est methods of the greatest statesmen to direct
the movements made by the people, to frame a
constitution that will admit Utah and bring about
prosperity and security of rights guaranteed by
the parent government. The people who have
settled these valleys deserve recognition and such
independence as statehood can give; under a 
territorial government the people are not free and
equal with those in the common sisterhood of
States, they have not the same general rights and
privileges, and it is not at all remarkable that
those born and reared here in this mountain re-
gion should partake of the strength and power, if
it may be so termed, of “the everlasting hills that
surround them,” and grow restless under such
treatment as they have been made to feel under
Territorial rule.
     In a state there is much greater opportuni-
ty for development, for the sort of government
under which the people of Utah have lived is only
a little removed above servitude; they have had
no voice in choosing the leading officers, but com-
pelled to accept such as were “sent unto them,”
and obliged to submit to that petty sort of tyranny
which to great minds is most unendurable. Utah
will hail with gladness the dawn of her liberation
from such an inferior position, and her people are
most certainly equal to the occasion of her as-
cending into the position she is so abundantly
able to fill, that of a free and sovereign state.


A SYNOPSIS of the Conference of the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake prepared
for this paper has been crowded out but will ap-
pear in our next issue. Also minutes of the Sis-
ters Conference in Box Elder and other stakes.


[Column 1]
	PRIMARY MEETING AND FAIR.

	On Tuesday June 28, we attended the Primary
Annual Meeting and Fair in the 17th
Ward Schoolhouse.  Mrs. Julia C. Howe is the
active and efficient President of that association.
She is assisted in her labors by Mrs. B. W. Smith
and Ella Dallas, who are intensely interested in
the instruction of the little people.  There were
quite a number of visitors present.  The meeting
opened with singing by the children, “’Tis meet-
ing day;” they seem to have had excellent train-
ing in music.  Prayer by Sister Sinah Bishop;
singing, “Around the throne of God.”  Minutes
of last annual meeting read and adopted; pro-
gramme exercises; Questions upon baptism by
Coun. Dallas, answered by the children; Recita-
tion, Maggie Snell; do. Ellen Kimball; Song
Gwendoline, May, Mabel and Ethel Lewis, ex-
ceptionally well rendered.  Bible Sketch of the
Prophet Daniel, Freddie Alder, read by his sister
on account of his absence; Alice May
Farr; Recitation, Nellie Howarth; Song,
Minnie and Maude Pratt; select Reading, Clara
Groesbeck; Recitation, Libbie Rich; Recitation,
Nellie Dwyer; Music, Battle of Waterloo, given
by little Gwendoline Lewis in fine style; Essay on
Tithing by little Sadie Smith, who was sick and
not able to attend, was read by President Howe,
who also made some remarks, giving items from
her experience since having charge of the associa-
tion.  Brief addresses to the children were made
by Sisters E. C. Clawson, M. I. Horne, S. Bishop,
Z. D. H. Young, M. A. Hyde, E. B. Wells.
After these sisters had addressed the meeting and

[Column 2]
singing Love at Home, a presentation was made
by Coun. Dallas to Sister M. Y. Dougall, who
for several years had filled the position of Coun-
selor in the association.  The memento was worked
on canvas and handsomely framed containing the
words, “To Counselor Mrs. M. Y. Dougall a small
token of love and esteem from the members of the 
Primary Association, Salt Lake City, June 1887.”
Bendiction by Sister B. W. Smith.
     The articles on exhibition at the Fair made a 
very nice showing and commended the exertions
of all interested.  Geneve Ellerbeck aged eight,
an etched splasher; Julia Howe the same age do.
Nellie Howarth aged eleven, Libbie Rich nine,
Annie Price nine, Julia Grow twelve Minnie Pratt,
thirteen, Barbara Brown eleven, each an
etched apron.  Sadie Wilmot a wreath
of hair, aged eleven; bouquet of 
flowers framed, Annie Mary Farr aged twelve, Mot-
toes in frames Ellen Lundell nine and Ada Eller-
beck twelve, globe of wax flowers and plush key
rack Tessie Williams six years old, vase of wax
flowers Ada Davis nine, vase of wool flowers
Jennie Davis eight, lovely embroidered toilet set
red plush Etta Keeting eleven, two cloth and
plush embroidered tidies Elsie Burrows ten,
crochet tidy Julia Holst 12, crochet mats and
tidy Belle Baker thirteen, canvas and creton tidy,
Clara Groesbeck eleven Louie Groosebeck
eight; Canvas and ribbon tidy Cathie Dougal
eight; sideboard scarf in silk etching, Clara and
Louie Groesbeck; Sateen and creton bag, Josie
Batie 12; wool mats, Susannah Rich eleven; do.
Libbie Rich nine; crochet woolen skirt, Julia
Howe nine; doll in pink satin and lace bonnet,
dressed by Ada Farmer eleven; do. in pink muslin
dress and satin bonnet Katie Dwyer ten; do. pink
muslin dress and lace cap by Maggie Brown;
book mark by Elvira Lundell; a doll's chair made
and painted by Master Murvin W. Davis twelve;
patch work, hand sewing nine blocks, May Lewis
eight; and four large ones by her twin sister, Mabel
Lewis; bottle of cherries tumbler of jelly and
sponge cake by Stella Jacobs nine; a doll's bed-
stead dressed complete, bed-tick, sheets, pillows,
do. slips, spread and pillow-shams made of seventy-
two pieces of embroidery, by Gwendoline Lewis.
     After the meeting the counselors and invited
guests accompanied the President, Mrs. Howe, to
her residence where the most delicious refresh-
ments were served in a tasteful manner, and after
partaking the ladies were invited to the parlor to
join in social conversation; finally by common
consent, a hymn was sung, “O my Father” etc.,
being chosen as appropriate and prayer was offered
by Sister Zina D. H. Young; brief remarks were
made by the sisters who seemed specially blest
with the Holy Spirit; after an hour or two spent 
in sweet communion, a benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Horne, and the company dis-
persed feeling they had been mutually blest in
thus assembling, and in blessing Sister Howe who
had so kindly given them this pleasant interview
in her beautiful and peaceful home.


THE OLD FOLKS EXCURSION.
	
	The bulwark of the Latter-day kingdom. The
veterans of republicanism had tendered to them 
a treat long to be remembered, which all partici-
pated in, with joyful hearts. Nineteen cars trans-
ported from Salt Lake City as good a lot of peo-
ple as can be found anywhere on the earth. The
weather was favorable, no high wind to break the
enjoyment, no accident to mar the peace of anyone.
The iron horse labored hard to move its precious
load to the city of enjoyment, Ogden, where
teams were in readiness to take all participators,
to the park.  The sprinkling carts had laid the
dust; all was fresh and green. Tables were spread,
laden with earth’s bounties; a rich feast for all.
The Relief Society of the different Wards in
that city had their tents and stoves arranged to


supply each table, and their corps of young ladies
attentive, courteous and obliging to those at table,
with willing hearts and smiling faces. Bless their
willingness to make the aged happy, and bless the
older sisters who took their part in the heat of the
day to add to the comfort of the aged in their en-
joyment. When all parties were supplied at the
table with plenty to eat and drink, an invitation
was extended to those 70 to 80 and 90 to go into
the Pavilion. The singers gave joy to the hearts
of all with their soul inspiring music like the rip-
pling streams of rivulets. Thanks to their kind
exertions to brighten and smooth the rugged
paths of declining years. The Pavilion’s stand
was honored with the noble, generous and true
men of God, who ever seek the happiness of those
in advanced years, from whose lips fell words of
inspiration, that gave new impetus to age, and
cheered the tottering step and strengthened the
feeble limbs. May blessings rest upon their labors
of love, and as they have honored their predeces-
sors so may they be honored.
	A variety of presents were given to the oldest
ones, such as easy chairs, hats, canes, dress pat-
terns, collars, brooches and other articles. May
the donors never want in basket or in store. May
the blessings of safety rest upon the train that
carried those precious ones.  May that engine re-
tain its propelling force and perform its mission
to carry souls in safety. While seated in the train
going north, cake and lemonade was passed around.
Returning, candy, lemonade and cake was passed
around in plenty for all, and, in fact, there was
nothing wanting to make the excursionists happy,
and their enjoyment complete. Thanks to the
Old Folk’s Committee, the Governor of Utah, and
all who took part in making the old folks feel well
and happy. And may there be many returns of
the days of such jubilees to our worthies who
have borne the heat and burden of the day—our
aged fathers and mothers.
	A partaker of Salt Lake City Ogden's do-
nated bounties. Synopsis.


21	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOME DAY.

Some day I shall be dead;
Some day this tired head,
With all the anxious thoughts it now doth know,
Shall be laid low.

This body, pain-racked, ill,
Shall lie at length, and still,
Under the clover and the wind-swept grass,
Nor hear you pass.

That were indeed strange sleep:
When—even you—might weep
And come and go—even you—unheard of me
As bird or bee!

Nay, sweetheart, nay!—believe
There is no cause to grieve;
One so wayworn, so sore opprest,
Is glad to rest.

Perchance when that release
Hath wrought its spell of peace,
O’er this unquiet heart long vex'd with woe—
Hearts-ease may grow.

Who loves me will not weep
When that I lie asleep,
But rather joy to think such sorrow may
Have end some day.
	HELEN HUNT.


[Column 1]	
	LOUIE.
	I loved her as a brother might love a sister—
for such indeed she seemed—and in her eyes I
was almost as a brother.
	I had known her from childhood, and in our 
hearts there dwelt a mutual sympathy.  There was
an affinity between us, enabling each to realize the
other’s feelings, and, though a gulf of years di-
vided us, it was spanned by an arch of congenial
thought and emotion.

[Column 2]
	She used to say she “liked” me, because I never
treated her as a child. I could not have done so,
had I desired; she was more than a child, even in
her childhood. It was an intelligent spirit that 
looked out upon the world through the dear, beauti
ful eyes now closed in death.
	She was as good as she was beautiful. Amiable
in disposition, affectionate, with a heart full of
sympathy for the sorrows of others, and a spirit
of sublime self-sacrifice for those she loved, she
was gifted with a magnetic charm, a power of at-
traction, that drew all souls in her direction.
	Naturally confiding, to those for whom she
cherished friendship or affection—though silent
and secretive when need be, and to many reti-
cent at all times—she inspired and drew forth the
confidence of others.
	Her soul was sensitive and refined. She was a
natural lover of the good, the true and the beauti-
ful. Fond of music, poetry, and painting, and
talented withal, she became their ardent devotee,
and, from the treasury of her heart and mind,
brought forth gems of melody and beauty. Her
voice in song was like the music of murmuring
waters, sinking or swelling in its deep tenderness,
like the rise and fall of a gentle billow.
	She was a child of faith, a daughter of religion.
Her aspirations were spiritual. Her dreams were
sparks of prophecy from the flaming forge of in-
spiration.
	Her’s was the poet’s temperament; her’s like-
wise the poet’s dual doom—the power to feel in-
tensely, joy or sorrow, pleasure or pain.
	There are souls so sensitive, so refined, so deli-
cately organized, that to them an unkind word is
equal to a blow; the prick of a pin almost equiva-
lent to a dagger-thrust. Such souls seldom linger
long in mortality; the tension is too great; though
the delicate strings, while they last, upon these
human harps, oft fill the world with immortal
harmony. Save God give added strength, they
cannot long endure the rough sweep of the world’s
harsh hand; tuneless and shattered they perish,
passing early to that spiritual life, that higher
sphere, for which they seem best fitted and de-
signed.
	It is always sad when a young life dies. The
death of the aged is as the setting sun, the day’s
heat and toil being over, and weary nature sighing
for rest; or, as the falling of the tree which has
borne its last fruit, put forth its final blossom, and
whose withered, sapless trunk is already crumb-
ling to decay. But when a youthful spirit takes
its flight, it seems more like the sun’s eclipse, ere
reaching the zenith of its years; or like the prema-
ture blighting of the tree, just budding forth in
strength and beauty.
	This is the mortal view.  But a higher than man
is the Judge. We can not doubt His wisdom,
question His mercy, or sit in judgment upon His
justice. Nor, till we rise above the clouds that
overhang us here, and reach the summit of the
bright hereafter, can we see clearly the mysteries
now hidden from our view. Some time we shall
know all.

	“But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart,
	God’s plans, like lillies, pure and white unfold,
	We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
	Time will reveal the calyxes of gold.”

	Louie, let us believe, had finished her life—had
fulfilled her mortal mission. She suffered much,
and had much of joy, in the few, brief years allotted
her; and perchance, by reason of her sensitive na-
ture, her power and capacity to feel, was able
to acquire, in a limited period, what many might
linger long years to obtain. Time and experience
are not synonyms.

	—“A thought—
A slumbering thought is capable of years,
And curdles a long life into one hour.”
	
“We live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths;
In feelings, not in figures on a dial.”
[Column 3]
	Let us hope she gained that experience—the
cream of which comes by suffering—the education
for which she left her eternal home, to learn,
in life’s mortal school, lessons not to be learned
elsewhere.
	Farewell, Louie! That all is well with thee, no
one will doubt who knew thee. God called thee
home; thy soul is in His keeping; thy future in
the hands of Him who “doeth all things well.”
	May we meet before the Father’s throne, to re-
new, in realms of rest and happiness, the tender
ties that bound us together here, and linked in
chain imperishable our immortal spirits, ere Time’s
billow rolled upon the ocean of Eternity, or our
little lives were launched forth like bubbles that
gleam and burst upon the bosom of the wave.
	A brother’s hand lays this brief tribute upon
thy bier.						   O. F. W.


MASS CONVENTION,
		SALT LAKE THEATRE.
	In accordance with the call from the Terri-
torial Central Committee the citizens of this
county assembled en masse in the theatre, at 12,
m. The building was well filled. Col. J. R.
Winder Chairman of the Ter. Cen. Com.
called the assembly to order, and nominated
Hon. James Sharp as Chairman. Mr. Sharp
was elected with applause. He thanked the
audience, and stated that sovereign statehood
was the object of the movement. Hon. F. S.
Richards moved that a secretary, two vice presi-
dents and an assistant secretary be elected.
The following gentlemen were nominated and
sustained by vote of the meeting. Judge E.
A. Smith, Secretary, Mayor F. Armstrong,
First Vice President, Hon. C. D. Brinton,
Second Vice President, H. G. Whitney, Assist-
ant Secretary. Prayer was offered by Bishop
O. F. Whitney. The band played, Hail
Columbia." H. G. Whitney read the Call for
the Convention, and Hon. John T. Caine, with
some appropriate remarks, moved that a com-
mittee of seven be appointed by the chair to
select names to be placed before the Convention
as delegates. The Chairman named as Com.
on Nom.: Hon. John T. Caine, Col. T. J.
Webber, Judge Adam Spiers, Dr. H. J. Faust.
E. Holman, O. S. Clawson and A. E. Hyde,
After the Committee had retired, speeches
were called for, and the following gentlemen
responded to the call by briefly addressing the
assembly: Hon. F. S. Richards, Le Grande 
Young, O. F. Whitney, J. F. Wells, J. H.
Moyle, R. W. Sloan and Andrew Jenson.
	Hon. F. S. Richards said the object of the
convention had been fully stated. His heart
was in the measure, and his soul was full of
patriotic pride in the oldest and most populous
Territory coming forward and asking recogni-
tion in the Union! For more than 37 years
the parent government had partially borne the
expenses of the Territorial government. It
was their sincere desire and moral duty to step
forward and assume their own responsibilities.
The Territory was now able to take her own
part. Several times had she asked for admis-
sion, but never were her prospects as bright as
to day. The change would bring new blessings
and responsibilities. These will be conditions
such as the youth receives on attaining his
majority. The additional responsibilities would
be more than compensated for by the powers
and advantages. Statehood was to Territorial
government as was mature manhood to irre-
sponsible childhood. Utah had outgrown her
condition of infancy, and was prepared to take
her part in the national government—the great-
est government on earth. Every additional
state gave greater power and prestige to the
nation. The end of the nation's growth was
not yet; it would be as much greater as was the
nation greater to-day than 100 years ago. There


[Column 1]
was no truer, more loyal or more patriotic peo-
ple than those represented here to-day. They-
should demand equal rights and equal responsi-
bilities with their fellow citizens, and should
bring both a constitution that would be a char-
ter of equal liberty to all. 
	The band played, "The Star Spangled Ban-
ner."
	Le Grande Young was then called for and
said he was heartily in accord with the present
movement. Ever since he had been old enough
to understand the difference between a Terri-
tory  and Statehood he had desired the latter
condition, and he knew that was the sentiment
of the great majority of the people, many of
whom had been anxiously wishing it for the last
 forty years. Thirty-nine years ago the people of
Utah, then called Deseret, framed a constitu-
tion and asked admission. This was before a
territorial government was formed, and the
feeling then was as patriotic as it could possibly
be to-day. The first thing the Pioneers did in-
dicated their true feelings. They came to this
land then in a foreign state, and raised the
stars and stripes. The constitution they then
adopted was worthy of support to-day.
	O. F. Whitney was then called, and was
greeted with cheers and applause. He said the
call was totally unexpected, for he was not a
political speaker. He realized, however, that
he would be recreant to his position as an
American citizen, if he failed to respond. He
was no orator, but he could at times speak his
mind and place before his hearers his sentiments
on the things that lay next his heart. One of
his favorite themes was the beauty and glory of
 the institutions of America. He loved them
with his whole heart. He was a descendant of
some of those whom God raised up to found
this government, and he was in hearty unison
with any movement inspired of God to secure
our rights in this great government raised up to
benefit the human race. It would be a slander
on the Almighty to say there was any intention
in His heart to limit these blessings to any
handful of people or any one nation. Princi-
ples are eternal, having their foundation in
Him, who is the father, inspirer and the pro-
tector of the good and pure and patriotic
everywhere. This nation's principles are of the
leaven destined to leaven the whole lump of
clay which we call mother earth. Every
movement for liberty, every shackle stricken 
off was a step in the purpose of the Almighty
for the emancipation of the human family.
James Russell Lowell, an American poet and
statesman, had voiced the speaker's sentiments,
and the sentiments of every patriot. Says he:
		"Is true freedom but to break
		Fetters for our own dear sake?
		And, with leathern hearts forget.
		That we owe mankind a debt?
		No! True freedom is to share
		All the chains our brothers wear,
		And with heart and hand to be
		Earnest to make others free.

		"They are slaves who fear to speak,
		For the fallen and the weak;
		They are slaves who will not choose
		Hatred, scoffing and abuse,
		Rather than in silence shrink
		From the truth they needs must think;
		They are slaves who dare not be
		In the right, with two or three."
	The speaker invoked the blessing of the Al-
mighty upon all movements for the bettering
of the condition of the human family. May
God defend the right and overrule this action
for our good and His own glory!
	Junius F. Wells, Esq., came forward in
answer to calls from the audience. He felt
deeply the importance of the step being taken
to-day for the emancipation of the people of
Utah. In times past the applications of the
people for admission, made on five occasions,
were passed by. But the people had grown
[Column 2]
and some time their power must be irrestible in 
this demand. The speaker believed that time
had come, and that Utah would be welcomed
into the sisterhood of States. Her people had
every neccessary qualification, and should be
found at the door. If they ask it would be
given; if they knock it will be opened to them.
	Jemes H. Moylǝ, Esq., next responded to the
call. He had been born in Utah's vales, an
American citizen. There was no privilege
upon which he looked with greater honor. The
results of the labors of those who founded
Utah were great, so great that she was now en-
titled to statehood. There were elements of
disunion here as well as elsewhere, but these
were such as were natural to humanity. Utah
had within her borders the resources to make
her one of the greatest of the States in the Union.
Now, on the approach of the nation's natal
day, there was the opportunity to move for-
ward to the liberty commemorated on that day.
May the people uuite in celebrating the birth
of this the greatest and freest of the nations of
the earth.
	Robert W.. Sloan was called for and said he
knew of nothing that could be urged against
statehood for Utah. He did not believe there
was anything of that nature. He was heart
and soul in the movement, and would support
it with all his power. Here was the foundation
of a State that would be the peer of any
that now bore that title. A great
commonwealth had been built up by those who
came to Utah in early days, for the good of
the present generation, who should benefit by
it. He wanted the rights of every man recog-
nized in the Constitution. He believed Utah
would be admitted, but whether she was or
not, her people would know they were right,
and that ultimately the right would win.
	Andrew Jenson, Esq., said his feelings were
in accord with the movement. He had been
born in a foreign land, and when, in his boy-
hood, he read of the great republic of America,
it filled his heart with joy. Many of the peo-
ple of Utah had come from the Scandinavian
nations; but they were not Scandinavians to-
day, but American citizens, honest and true.
They expected to remain American citizens
and to sustain American institutions. He
could not be silent in this great movement, and
pledged himself to support it.
	Hon. John T. Caine, of the committee on
nominations, submitted the following report:
	The Com. on nom. submitted the following
list of names of Delegates to the Constitution-
al Convention to be held in the City Hall on
Thursday, June 30, to represent Salt Lake
County.
	James Sharp, Wm. Riter, John T. Caine,
Samuel P. Teasdel, Franklin S. Richards, Le
Grand Young, Elias A. Smith, Richard Howe,
L. S. Hills, John Clark, Samuel Bennion, An-
drew Jenson, Francis Armstrong, Feramorz
Little, Junius F. Wells, John R. Winder.
	Your committee also suggest the following
alternates to act in the event of a failure of any
of the principals.
	James H. Moyle, John C. Cutler, O. F. Whit-
ney, Thomas W. Jennings.
	On motion, the report of the committee was
adopted, there being but one vote in the nega-
all were elected.
	The closing prayer was offered by President
Angus M. Cannon.
	The assembly then gave three rousing cheers
for the new State of Utah, and dispersed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			WEBER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Weber Stake of Zion was held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Thursday, June 16th,
1887. uuder the direction of President Jane S.
[column 2]
Richards. After singing, prayer was offered.
by Prest. L. W. Shurtliff, and the minutes of
the previous conference were read and accepted.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards said she was very
much pleased to see so goodly a number
present, for she felt the Spirit of God was here
to-day, and would be richly given to all who
sought for it through faith and prayer. Was
delighted to have Sister Zina D. H. Young
and Sister Harriet Snow, President of R. S. Box
Elder Co. with us again; also highly grati-
fied to have Sister Herrick with us again after
her long absence from our midst, and trusted
that all would accept and appreciate the good
counsel these sisters may impart.
	Sister Janette Bingham felt to thank the
Lord for all good, and to live only for the up-
building of His Kingdom here on earth. If
we had met to-day to be filled with His Spirit
our prayers would be surely answered.
	Prest. L. W. Shurtliff felt to rejoice in meet-
ing with the sisters always, and was truly proud
of the great and good works which they are
constantly achieving. Referred to some inter-
esting remarks which he heard Apostle F. D.
Richards make in regard to the sisters visiting
those who are cold and indifferent as punctually
as those who are sick, for by so doing untold
good would be accomplished. Prayed God’s
blessings to rest upon all.
	Sister Zina D. Young asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of all present. Spoke of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and some of his
grand and glorious teachings to the sisters in
the early scenes of the Church. Said, “As he
Government has now disfranchised us we can
speak with perfect freedom on the pure and
holy principles of the Gospel.” Gave a pleas-
ing account of her attendance at the reunion of
President Heber C. Kimball’s family. Felt
that these days are the best we have yet seen
on earth, and if we could banish from our
midst the spirit of fault-finding we would then
know perfect happiness, and more nearly be-
come as the Son of Man. Prayed that the
teachers might continually be filled with the
Spirit of God, and speak words of wisdom to
all whom they might visit.
	Elder D. H. Peery said the time was when
he firmly believed the teachings and teachers
of this Church were all wrong, but through
the faith and long-suffering of his wife, all
these ideas were changed. Knew the hearts
of womankind, as a rule, are purer and nearer
God than are those of men. “Through our
union only will all malice be overcome, and
through our prayers would we attain unbounded
success.” Spoke of the great danger of our
sons and daughters marrying those not of our
faith. “If we are indifferent to and rebellious
against those things which we know God has
revealed, He will surely bring us low and hum-
ble us to do-His will.”
Sister Harriet Snow, Stake President of Box
Elder County Relief Society, was pleased to
meet her sisters in this county, but felt her ina-
bility in speaking to them. Desired to be
humble, meek and pure before God, so as to
discern the whisperings of the still small voice,
and thus be enabled to overcome fear and
the many trials we are called to pass through.
Prayed for the spirit of peace and union to be
with all the societies in every county and ward
in this land.
	Sister Sarah Herrick was very thankful to
again be associated with her sisters. Knew we
could not half appreciate the society and sym-
pathy of our brethren and sisters until we are
deprived for a time of the same. Desired to
live righteously before the Lord, and thereby
gain His approval and blessings.
	Elder Maycock felt that an individual inter-
est should be taken in the different organiza-
tions of this Church, and a spirit of love and
charity be cultivated in our midst. Prayed
God’s blessings to rest upon all the sisters in
ich abundance, and to give them renewed


[Column 1]
strength and energy in their various labors.
	Prayer was offered by Elder Saunders, and
meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p.m.
	2 o’clock p.m.  Meeting came to order by
singing, “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by
Bishop R. McQuarry.   Singing, “There’s, a
feast of fat things.”
	Elder Joseph Stanford being requested to
make a few remarks, felt to respond willingly
in this as well as all other calls, for in so doing 
could he obtain the Spirit and blessings of
God.  Referred to the remarks of Sister Zina
Young and others, and of the good that must
follow if their instructions were only treasured
up and carried out.  Admonished the sisters
to speak all good of one another, and to seek to
build each other up by faith and good works.
	Sisters Widerborg and Bickington bore faith-
ful testimonies to the truth of the Gospel, and
desired that all the sisters might live to be
worthy of the greatest praise and honor from
their sons and daughters, and to teach them
every principle of the Gospel in all purity, by
observing the same in our daily lives.
	Sisters Randall and Yearsley felt determined
to follow in the footsteps of righteousness un-
til the end should come, and seemed greatly 
filled with the Spirit of God, and the gifts 
and blessings He so kindly bestows.
	Coun. Hattie C. Brown always enjoyed meet-
ing with the Saints of God, and was proud
that she had a standing with them in His
kingdom; felt to praise the Lord for the many
gifts and blessings He bestows upon us.
	Sister Harriet Snow said she had been a
member of this Church for more than forty
years, and had never yet doubted one principle 
of this, the everlasting Gospel, but felt stronger 
and more determined to live them than ever
before. Advised the mothers to set good ex-
amples in their homes as well as in their socie-
ties.  Said that in the county over which she
presided there was one branch of Lamanites,
which was in a prosperous condition,  The sis-
ters of that branch were doing all in their
power to learn the principles of cleanliness and 
industry, as well as those pertaining to the Gos-
pel.  Prayed God to bless us inasmuch as we
live according to His teachings.
	Sister Zina Young read a revelation given
through Joseph the Seer, in Harmony, Susque-
hannah Co., Pennsylvania, July, 1830, which
was both interesting and instructive.  Said if
nothing more than the words contained therein
had been heard to-day, there was an abundance
to be remembered and carried out.  Advised
the mothers to read the Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants often, and live accord-
ing to their teachings.  Quoted the saying of
the Prophet Joseph’s: “Don’t climb on to the
extreme branches of the tree, for there is dan-
ger of falling.  Cling close to the trunk.”
Thought it would just as appropriately apply
to any one of us to-day.  Thanked the sisters
for their liberal donations to the Hospital, and
admonished the sisters to live purely, so that
they could officiate in the ordinance of washing
and anointing the sick, and to labor earnestly
with the young to instill the principles of the
Gospel in their hearts in all purity, so they will
not stray away from the fold.
	Prest. J. S. Richards said Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith sent her love and blessing to all
the sisters in this county, and hoped to enjoy
their society in conference again.  Then Sister
Richards asked if the sisters all felt to sustain
Sister   Eliza R.   Snow   Smith, as     their
President	to      carry     out   all        her
teachings and put in practice her instruc-
tions and exercise our faith, and that we may
have her with us again as we have had many
times in the past, and to sustain her, also, as
the President of the Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in all the world.  The vote was unanimous.
[Column 2]
After singing and prayer, conference adjourned
for three months.
				MATTIE A. CANNON
					Sec. of Weber Stake

			RIVERDALE
	The Young Ladies’ Quarterly Meeting was
held at the residence of Sister Martha Bingham,
May 19th, 1887, there being a large number
present.  Prest. Russell conducted the meeting,
which was opened by singing.  Prayer was
offered by Sister Bybee, and singing again.
After the reading and approval of the minutes,
an interesting programme was rendered.  The
manuscript paper, “The Young Ladies’ Instruc-
tor,” edited by Julia Child, was read.    Our
paper still continues to show a marked improve-
ment by the articles contributed for it.   Lizzie
Stimpson and Annie Stratton sang a song well
worthy of notice; next a dialogue by five mem-
bers, entitled, “Woman’s Mission.”
Prest. Russell was pleased with the pro-
gramme, and encouraged the sisters in respond-
ing when called upon.
	Sister Stanford said she had listened with
interest to the programme. “The Lord will bless
the young sisters in their endeavors to do good.
We come here to improve, and should heed the
counsel of those who are placed over us.  It
seems to be a warfare sometimes to do just as
we should do, and as the Lord would have us
do; we often want to go our own way.  We will
comprehend this more as we get older.  The
more family we have the more necessity we see
in trying to lives of righteousness.  If we had
obeyed the good counsel given to us years ago,
in regard to home industry, we would to-day
have been more independent than we are; but
we must all learn these things by experience.
I feel that the Lord is helping us, and with all
our imperfections we are the most favored peo-
ple upon the earth, and are greatly blessed by
Him.   I often think though we are worldly
poor, we are rich in the blessings of the Al-
mighty.  Urged the sisters to use a good influ-
ence and heed the instructions of mothers and
teachers, and sustain their President, and have
love in their hearts for each other.
	Sister J. S. Richards thought that we had all
come to meeting to have our minds refreshed up-
on the principles of our religion. Had enjoyed
the exercises and hearing the testimonies of the
sisters. “We cannot be happy if we have dis-
order and disunion in our midst, for we all have
failings, but we must overlook them in each
other, and look at the good qualities we possess.
Although we claim to have the Spirit of the
Lord with us, we are sometimes led astray and
we do wrong; but we must forgive and we will
be forgiven.  If we wish to be true Latter-day
Saints we must believe all the principles of our
religion, and be prayerful, so that we can claim
the blessings of the Lord.  We should try to
set good examples before our children, and help
them along, for they will have many trials and
temptations to pass through.  If we see ex-
amples that are not good we must not follow
them.   When we have the light of the Holy
Spirit to guide us we feel happy; we only need
to put our trust in the Lord and we will have
no fear.   We must improve step by step each
day that we live, and press onward.”
Sister Monch had enjoyed a good spirit in
the meeting.   Was pleased with the exercises,
and with the paper in particular, and compli-
mented the sisters on what had been written.
We should try to improve all the time in writ-
ing, and also in reading.   We should not seek
improvement from books alone, but call upon
the Lord to aid us with His Spirit.” Thought
the sisters could wield a good influence in so-
ciety, and should ask God to help them to do
so, and the young ladies should hold a good in-
fluence over the young men, for there are a
great many ways in which young men are
tempted to go astray, and the influence of a 
[Column 3]
young lady may do a great deal of good. “If
we ask the Lord to bless us in our afflictions
He will send comfort to our hearts.  We must
expect to go onward and improve our time
while we are here, and try to fill the mission
that we have on this earth acceptably before
the Lord.”
Sister Shreeves said, “There are a great many
temptations placed before the young, and the
young ladies are apt to be led astray by out-
siders, and they will sometimes unite in mar-
riage with those who are not of our faith, and
the result is they will lose the influence of the
priesthood and the spirit of their religion, and
in afflictions they realize their true position, for
they cannot expect the blessings and comfort
they would receive in listening to counsel and
marrying those in the faith.   Our young ladies
should be very careful whom they select as a
husband, and choose one whom they can claim
both in this life and the life to come. We
must be humble and prayerful, and obey the
commands of God, so that when trials come
upon us we can call upon Him to bless us and
we will be comforted.  It is necessary for us
all to have a testimony for ourselves, and
then we will be more able to withstand the
trials of life.”
Bro. Thompson said he could see that the
sisters are doing a good work.    We should
all have a desire to see this work press on-
ward; we should improve every opportunity
that we have to speak.
	Sister Martha Bingham prayed for the Spirit
of the Lord to assist all in doing good and
trying to overcome evil and be united in all
things.
	Coun. Julia Child hoped we would put in-
to practice the good instructions that we had
received, and prayed that the Lord would
bless us in whatever we attempt to do.
	Coun. Jennette Parker felt thankful to God
for His blessings day by day, and Eliza W.
and Sarepta Child each bore testimony to the
truth of this work, and hoped we would profit
by what had been said, and strive to fulfill our
respective callings appropriately.
	Nellie Child bore her testimony, after which
Prest. Russell made some closing remarks, in
which she urged all to practice what we had
heard, “for it is not the amount that we hear
that will benefit us, it is the amount that we
practice.” Realized a great responsibility rest-
ing upon her as president, but she placed her
dependence in the Lord.   Thought the Spirit
of the Lord had been in our midst, although
Satan was trying to destroy our good works.
	Sister Dye reported the Primary Association,
as being in a fair and prosperous condition.
Singing, “Lord, dismiss us,” etc.   Benediction
by Maria Russell.
			ELIZA W. CHILD, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.
	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York,Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CHANGES IN RELIGION.
That Missionary Bible and tract funds get
	ting Low, Secret Societies compared with the
		Church.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Very great changes in religion that have oc-
curred at a recent meeting of The Tract Society:
In New York it came out that not half the 
tracts published last year could be given away,
and that the expenses were much greater than
the receipts.  The Missionary Society has by
their reports a falling off in cash of about
one third since last fall.  The more astute Mis-
sionaries who do not want to lose their jobs have
changed their tactics from soliciting money to
convert the Jews, etc., to money for missions—
to the Mormons.  One or two women have
made good hauls out of the bigots of the
Western Reserve in Ohio, but the whole busi-
ness of priestcraft is getting stale all over the
country.  The people are in advance of the
priests in intelligence, therefore do not need
them.   Many priestly plans have been tried to
prop up their failing power.
	A large convention of clergymen, of nearly
all denominations, met in Chicago last fall, and
unanimously resolved to exclude from the
church all members of secret societies.  The
question is, which is most useful, the church 
membership or these societies?   What are their
fruits and relative cost and benefits?   There
lately resided in Corry a physician who paid
to the Methodist church regularly a considera-
ble sum, aggregating thousands.  A few years
before his death he paid a less sum to a benevo-
lent secret society. After his decease his widow
was called on to help pay a debt the church
incurred while he was a member and she
actually paid $5 from her scanty widow's mite.
The benevolent society to which they had paid
far less than to the church paid the widow over 
$2,000.
	There are many cases here and all over the
country where these secret benevolent societies
provide widows and orphans with a comfortable
support.  In no case have I known of any
branch of the church, Catholic or Protestant,
doing it.
	Sectarians say the church keeps up morality
and religion.   How?  The greatest and noblest
men of our age, Horace Greely, Lincoln, Sena-
tor Wade, Wendell Philips, Parker Pillsburg,
&c., were never connected with or guided by
any church; yet they had a morality and re-
ligion higher than church creed.   In Corry the
chief merchants, bankers and business men 
are not church members.   But no one can tell
who is a church member and who is not by
dealing with them on account of any special
integrity of character.  Some are good men
and women and some are not, just like non-
church members.   The divine Father of all
has stamped in our souls the love of justice.
Churches are only machinery to develope and 
bring it out.   They are not religion any more
than plows and hoes are agriculture.  They no
more make the love of religion than bakers or
meat dealers make the love of bread and meat,
or the sheep shearers make wool.  They don’t
raise the sheep they shear, or the lambs they
slaughter.  So many are living by the gospel
the work is overdone.   There is a superabun-
dance of so-called  shepherds and shearers.
Very few sheep with eligible fleeces are enter-
ing the folds.  The machinery of religion is
changing.   The beliefs of the dark ages, when
most of our orthodox theology came into being,
is for this reason not adapted to our age no
more than a child’s spelling book is adapted to
a Newton or the clothes of a babe are adapted
to manhood.  Religion is eternal; never was it 
so common.  Never had it so much care for
the unfortunate.   The secret benevolent socie-
ties are protecting the weak and helping the
[Column 2]
helpless. The best men and women in the
churches will help. The bigots should have
a corner by themselves, growing more and
more select and small as intelligence and re-
ligion increases.
						G. F. LEWIS.
	Corry, Penn., June 17, 1887.

	The article published above is from one liv-
ing outside in the world who knows the deceit
and hypocrisy of the professed Christian
Churches, but the Gospel as preached by the
Latter-day Saints is widely different from sec-
tarianism, and cannot in any sense be classed
with it.  As Latter-day Saints we should never
lose sight of the fact that our religion embraces
all truth whether found upon Christian or upon
heathen ground.   There have been great and
good men outside the churches in the world
and there have also been good and liberal-
minded men in the churches,but the best society
that was ever organized could not and does not
(we speak advisedly) do so much good as the
Gospel of Jesus Christ which is the power of
God unto salvation for all that believe and
obey the same and practise its precepts.
							EDITOR.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Michigan University. at Ann Arbor, cele-
brated its fiftieth anniversary in June.
	Agitation is the marshalling of the con-
science of a nation to mould its laws.”—Sir
Robert Peel.
	I talk ballot wherever I go, and more and
more. It is the way for the ransomed to pass 
over Jordan out of the wilderness into the
promised land.
	Mrs Jennie June Croly was tendered a recep-
tion by the New England Women’s Press As
sociation, at the Parker House, Boston, Satur-
day, June 18. It was a very pleasant affair:
	Mrs. Frank Leslie, now in Paris, will go to
the City of Mexico in September to arrange
for the publication there of a Spanish-Ameri-
can newspaper.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	The following Resolutions of Respect for our beloved
President, Mrs. Elizabeth Clifton, who was born August
23rd, 1822, and died at Wallsburg, April 27, 1887, after
many years of snftering, which she bore with great fortitude
and patience.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to remove
from this sphere of action our beloved President, Sister
Elizabeth Clifton, we feel that we have lost an efficient officer
of our society, a kind neighbor, and loving sister, and
while we deplore her loss we feel to bow in humble sub-
mission to Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved That we extend to the sorrowing family our
heartfelt sympathy, and trust that they will feel to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in this visitation, that she is not
lost but gone before.
	Resolved That a copy of these resolutions be sent
to the bereaved family, that a copy be placed on our society re-
cord, and that one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication. 
		She suffered more than.three score years,
			And her deliverer has come, 
		And wiped away his handmaid's tears,
			And taken his exile home.

		Her aching head has found a rest.
			Let us prepare with her to meet,
		No cares disturb her peaceful breast
			The time is short she has to sleep.
						POLLY MEECHAM,
						ESTHER DABLING,
						ELIZA THOMPSON,
						SUSAN GARDNER,
						LUCINA M. BOREN,  Sec.,
								Committee.


R. K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES  & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 16.		   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1887.		    No. 4.


PEACEABLE FRUIT.

"Never the less afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of
	righteousness."—Hebrews 12: 11. 

What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
	For this dark and suffering night?
Father, what shall Thine "afterward" be?
Hast Thou a morning joy for me,
	And a new and joyous light?

What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
	For the moan that I cannot stay?
Wilt Thou turn it to some new song of praise,
Sweeter than sorrowless hearts could raise, 
	When the night hath passed away?

What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
	How long must Thy child endure?
Thou knowest ! 'tis well that I know it not !
Thine "afterward" cometh; I can not tell what,
	But I know that Thy word is sure.

What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord?
	I wonder and wait to see;
(While to Thy chastening hand I bow)
What "peaceable fruit" may be ripening now,
	Ripening fast for me?—Selected
						M. R. J.


ENDURANCE
How much the heart may bear and yet not break.
	How much the flesh may suffer and not die;
I question much if any pain or ache
	Of soul or body brings the end more nigh.
		Death chooses his own time; till that is worn
		All evils may be borne.

We shrink and shudder at the surgeon's knife,
	Each nerve recoiling from the cruel steel,
Whose edge seemed searching for the quivering life;
	Yet to our sense the bitter pangs reveal
		That still, although the trembling flesh be torn,
		This, also, can be borne.

We see a sorrow rising in our way,
	And try to fly from the approaching ill;
We seek some small escape—we weep and pray—
	But when the blow falls, then our hearts are still;
		Not that the pain is of its sharpness shorn,
		But that it can be borne.

We wind our life about another life,
	We hold it closer, dearer than our own,
Anon it faints and falls in deadly strife,
	Leaving us stunned and stricken and alone;
		But oh! we do not die with those we mourn—
		This, also, can be borne.

Behold! we live through all things—famine, thirst,
	Bereavement, pain! all grief and misery,
All woe and sorrow; life inflicts its worst 
	On soul and body, but we cannot die,
		Though we be sick and tired, and faint and worn;
		Lo! all things can be borne.
						ELIZABETH AKERS ALLEN.


[column 1]
A FEW THOUGHTS.

DEAR EDITOR:
     I feel quite guilty in neglecting to write for
our paper for so long a time.  It has not been 
because I had not a desire to help maintain
[column 2]
our paper, the rights of the women of Utah,
or the principles of the Gospel.  I am fully
aware of the necessity there is of every one be-
ing alive to their duties, and it is the duty of
every one who bears the name of Latter-day
Saint, to show their faith by their works, and
always be willing to use the talents the Lord
has given them for the benefit of the cause of
truth.
     We are living in a momentous time of the
world's history, and we cannot shut our eyes to
the fact that the end is fast approaching a con-
summation.  The events that are taking place
day by day, demonstrate beyond a doubt, that 
the Lord is working out His designs in His own
way; and the question with us is, "Are we pre-
pared?  Have we oil in our lamps?  Do we
realize the magnitude of the responsibility rest-
ing upon us as Saints?  Do we keep up with
the spirit of the times, or are we asleep, using
our time, energy, and talents in folly and
fashion?"  The exigency of the times calls for 
all the energies of the Saints to be concentrated
upon their religion, and the maintenance of
what few rights we have left.
     The rulers of the nation have seen fit to de-
prive us of the right of FRANCHISE, because we
did not fulfill their expectations in catering to
their ideas, but used our right, as free born
women should, for the establishment of pure
principles, of equal rights, of a virtuous com-
munity, and the selection of men for office that
would secure to us these heaven-born principles.
They preferred no charge against us, but took
from us this right without giving us the
chance to defend ourselves, the right perserva-
tive of all other rights, because of our opinions.
And will we submit?  Yes, under protest, leav-
ing our cause in the Almighty ruler's hand,
knowing He will deal out justice and equity
to all.  We claim that it is unconstitutional;
we claim that we have a right to our belief
untramelled.
     The Constitution plainly states that "the
FRANCHISE once given cannot be taken away;"
it becomes our property, a part of our posses-
sions, and the loss of it deprives us of what
was our own individually. One must prove a
person guilty of treason before he or she can
constitutionally be deprived of this right.  And
in what does treason consist?  "In levying war,
or giving aid and comfort to the enemies of the
United States."  Senators and statesmen of a 
great nation must be terrible cowards to be
afraid that the women of Utah would "levy
war against the United States."  Oh, consist-
ency, thou art a jewel!
     We find, by referring to the law, that all
persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
are citizens of the United States, and that no 
law shall be made to deprive them of life,
liberty or property, or the equal protection of 
the law."  What a falling away from the spirit
and design of the Constitution!  We revere
that sacred document as heaven born; we be-
lieve the men that formed it were inspired of
God to do just what they did, and we will
teach our sons and daughters to love it, to de-
fend it, and let freedom and equal rights be
their watchword.  We will teach them that
every man and woman are born free and equal;
that God, the Father of their spirits, made
them free; that the Constitution makes them
free, and that the Gospel makes them free, and
that they are the slaves of no faction, but inde-

[column 3]
pendent, with the right to worship God in the
way that he marks out.
     How like to olden times is the present.
Then it was a band of pilgrims flying from the
arbitrary rule of the Stuarts--a band of hum-
ble and peaceable religionists flying from cause-
less oppression!  It was conscience attempting 
to escape from arbitrary despotism, a Robinson,
a Brewster, leading of a little band from their 
native soil to find a shelter in an unknown land,
where they could enjoy religious freedom.  How
like to the little band of Saints who left their 
homes in the east, driven from state to state,
until they were driven beyond the confines of
the United States, and when, after surmounting 
untold difficulties, braving a thousand dangers,
and suffering the pangs of hunger and sickness,
they found a home in these mountains, and
with their love of liberty unfurled the stars
and stripes to the breeze, and pledged their
lives, their honor, their all to defend it.  What
a noble band! when they had suffered so much
at the hands of the nation, left their loved ones
in unmarked graves on the plains, their young
children, men and maidens, grey haired fathers
and mothers deprived of their homes and pos-
sessions, and driven at the point of the gun in-
to the wilderness to find a home, yet they cling
to the old flag.
     And now when we have made the valley to
blossom as the rose, and this barren waste a
fruitful field, they would take our all.  We,
like the Pilgrim Fathers, put our trust in our
Father, the Supreme Ruler, knowing He will
defend our rights and deal out justice and
equity to all.  We know that God lives, and
that He has revealed Himself to man in this 
day, and we know we have seen His power
made manifest, and make bold to declare it to
all nations, and if we obey His laws we shall
be saved at the last day; we have proved it to
be true, and though men may deride and scoff,
yet we still know that it is the power of God
unto salvation to all that believe, and con-
demnation to those who reject it.
     Praying for the success of our paper, the
EXPONENT of the rights of the women of
Utah,  I am, 
     Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
					S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A. Bronson Alcott will spend the summer
with his daughter, Mrs. Pratt, at Melrose,
Mass.  He is no longer able to hold a pen, and
does all his work by dictation.

	In the Exhibition of the Royal Academy
of Arts, London, of the paintings and sculp-
tures over 1,900 in number, 242 are the works
of women. It is only fifteen years, since women
artists were admitted to the Royal Academy.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe emphatically
denies the story which is circulating to the ef-
fect that she could never have written "Uncle
Tom's Cabin" if she had known the colored
people as she knows them now; after a resi-
dence at the South.

	Lillian Whiting says "The time is almost
gone by for the discussion of whether women
want or do not want the ballot. They will
have it whether they desire it or not. And
the true wisdom is to study to find how to use


this extension of power, that is sure to come
in the near future(?).

	Miss Agnata Ramsay, of Girton College, has
been awarded the first rank classics at Cam-
bridge, England. She has surpassed all the
male students in classics, being the only one of
either sex to pass in the first division. Her
father, Sir James Ramsay, a Scotch baronet,
and her uncle, Professor George Ramsay, of
Glasgow University, each obtained a first-class
in classics when they took their degrees at Ox-
ford. Miss Ramsay has just reached twenty
years,and several her male competitors were
older. Her proficiency in Latin and Greek
were equal.

	In Cuba a woman never loses her maiden
name. After marriage she adds her husband's
name to her own. In being spoken of she is
always called by her Christian and maiden 
names. To a stranger it is often quite a task
to find out whose wife a woman is. Never hear-
ing the wife called by the husband's name, one
naturally does not associate them together.
The children take the names of both parents,
but place the mother's name after the father's

	Mrs. Abba Goold Woolson recently read a
treatise on "The American Woman Abroad
and at Home," before the Lasell Alumnae Asso-
ciation, in which she ridiculed "our fashionable
women in aspiring to the ways and manners of
Ehglish women by  fearing to move in their
native land without a chaperone." The Bos-
ton Home Journal says: "Mrs. Woolson does 
not need a chaperone, but there are a great
many women and girls who do need sensible
female guardians  to keep them from making
themselves ridiculous."

	Mrs. Julia Smith, of Glastonbury, Conn.,
bequeathed the famous Jersey cows to her hus-
band, but gave to Mrs. Jane H. Spafford, of
the Riggs House, Washington, "my silk bed-
quilt, containing 7,000 pieces; to Mrs. James
Noble, of Westfield, Mass., the Wallingford
table-cloth, without a seam, spun by myself 
and sister, and the one hundred and twenty
years old bed-quilt of dimity, made by my
grandmother before her marriage, who spun
and wove the lining and quilted the same."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SURPRISE AND A REORGANIZA-
				TION.

	On April 27th last the members of the Re-
lief Society of Graham, Arizona, met at the
residence of President Annie Jorgansen to
give her a surprise before she left, as she was
making preparations to join her husband, he
having been in Mexico two years. She was on
a visit to her daughter’s, ten miles distant, so
she was completely surprised on her return
home to find the house crowded with sisters, and
the tables loaded with good things.
	After all were seated, a few appropriate lines
were read by the Secretary, and Sister Jorgan-
sen was presented by the R. S. with a large
portrait of our late President, Brigham Yonng,
handsomely framed. She responded in a very
impressive manner, thanking the sisters for
their kindness to herself and family. After
an hour or two spent in pleasant conversation,
the company dispersed, wishing Sister Jorgan-
sen a pleasant journey and health and happiness
in her new home.
	May 4th President Wilmirth East, Counselor
Mary L. Ransome and Stake Secretary, Lucinda
Gustaverson, met with the sisters to assist the
Bishop reorganize the Relief Society. Sister
Pauline Freestone was chosen President, with
Vercy Stelle and Mary Peterson, Counselors;
M. E. Skinner, Secretary; Martha Mulanare,
Treasurer.


Presidents East and Ransome each made
very encouraging remarks after a few words of
counsel by Bishop Peterson. Sister Gustaver-
son gave some advice to the Secretary; the
meeting was dismissed, all feeling that we had
had a time of rejoicing long to be remem-
bered.
	We have had some sickness of late, and two
of our brethren and one little girl have been
laid to rest in this settlement. Previous to
last month we had three deaths in six years,
but we could not expect to be always so
favored.
	Ever praying for the cause of truth, and
success to the EXPONENT, I remain,
		Your sister in the covenant,
			MARY E. SKINNER.
June 27, 1887.


﻿WOMEN IN THE EAST.
	“Constantinople,” says Postmaster Leeds, “is
the seat of the Mohammedan religion, but we
must go to the interior to see the customs and
religion of the people in the true light; for the
foreigners in Constantinople have had some, ef-
fect on the manners of the people. Take for
instance the veils worn by the women—for all
women are veiled in that country. In the inte
rior it is of heavy cloth covered with horrid
figures, that look hideous, while in Constantino-
ple it is delightfully thin and tends rather to
improve the looks.	
	The Sultan at the present time has 484
wives. He never marries, but the woman who
bears him the first male child he appoints his
sultana, and upon her confers the ring that
makes her the legitimate heir. When a young
man arrives at the proper age, and his mother
and sisters think that he needs a wife, they
look about to find one for him. At the time
of the ceremony she arrives, closely veiled, and
after the ceremony is performed he lifts the
veil and for the first time sees the face of his
wife. He has eight days in which to decide
if he is satisfied with her, and if not he returns
her to her parents. A divorce is a mere snap
of the finger.—Palladium, New Haven.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.
	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


﻿It is a good rule to be deaf when a slanderer
begins to talk.

	Poetry is the frolic of invention. the dance
of words, and the harmony of sounds.—F.
Reynolds.

	A house is no home unless it contains food
for the mind as well as food for the body.—
Margaret Fuller.
	Cheerfulness is the bright weather of the
heart. Pleasant, cheerful conversation should
be the rule at the table. It is a breech of good
breeding for one member of the family to sit
down at the table and silently read the daily
paper.—Saxe.


OBITUARY.

	We, the sisters of the Mantua Relief Society, Box Elder
Stake, Utah, have formed Resolutions in behalf of our de-
parted sister and president, Margretta Keller, who de_
parted this life on June 19th, 1887. She was born the 27th
of February, 1836, in Veibj, Frederikborg, Amt, Denmark,
and embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints June 24th, 1854; emigrated to Utah in the year of
1855; endured the toil and hardships of eleven months
travel; was married in the year 1856, and raised nine child-
ren, of whom two have gone before her. She was chosen
President of the R. S. April 26, 1874, and has held that
position as a faithful Saint ever since, and nothing but
sickness prevented her from attending her meetings.
	We now bid farewell to our leader and sister, Margretta
Keller, that now is called home to our Father to rest from
this world's labor and toil; home to a better place of rest
and peace. The Lord saw thy work done here on earth,
thou hast remained true in life, wast a comfort to the poor,
a help to the sick and a leader to us all.
	As our President we miss thee in our association, but the
Lord had a better place for thee to work in. Thou hast
suffered extreme pain with great patience, thy prayers and
desires were to thy God; thy faith in Him was great and
steadfast, for it was built upon a rock.
	Thou art missed by thy husband and children—thou wert
a loving and faithful mother, and an example thou hast
been to thy sisters, virtuous, merciful and righteous in thy
dealings; known for thine energy and plainness. It will al-
ways be remembered by the sisters of the Mantua Relief
Society, and thou art now numbered among the blessed.
	In the days of sorrow the Father took thee; thou hast
conquered strife, and now art free. His will was done
on earth, and although we feel the loss of thee, yet in
hope we rejoice, and trust we, too, may prove faithful to
the end, that we may gain a place with thee in the
presence of our Father. Here we stand with sorrowfull
hearts by the grave of our dear President; we part, but
it is a comfort to our grief that thou hast found sweet
relief; thou feared not death, for thou hadst found favor
with thy God.
	The sisters of Mantua Relief Society.
					CHRISTINE JENSEN, First Coun.,
					JULIANE C. CHRISTIANSEN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LOUIE.

Like the flight of a star fell the word—thou wert gone!
And a shade crossed the heart, as a storm hides the dawn.
And, as leaves hurry past on the wings of the wind,
'Mid rain drops (and tear drops), came swift to the mind
Remembrances thronging, sweet witness to bear
Of the bliss of the past and the present's despair.
Like echoes that linger, or dreams that enthrall,
Come hovering 'round me their images all:		
The gentle, sweet kindness to youth and to age,
To the lowly and needy—ah! tears dim the page;
The voice whose sweet purity, bird-like and clear,
Sank deep in the soul as we listened to hear;
The pictures that grew 'neath thy pencil to view,
Still speak of thy spirit's work, lovely and true.
If I look through thy home thou art gone yet art there,
And the silent keys wait for thy voice on the air.
Nay, these rooms are not empty when one we have known,
Though invisible, still lingers here 'mid her own;
Where a loved one hath been, there forever remains
That spirit’s communion 'mid memory’s pains.

How often in reverie have I recalled
One night amid friends, Louie, fairest of all,
Sang tenderly, purely, one song whose refrain—
Was’t prophetic of after years' trial and pain?
Sad words for young lips: "’Twas the voice of her God,
"I love thee, I love thee I pass under the rod.”
And another—a song of fair Italy’s own—
How it rose from thy lips in love’s full, richest tone:
Did it whisper again when night shadowed thy soul
And lonely—"Should doubts my heart control?”

Love decked all thy years with its tenderest care,
Graces, virtues and gifts made thy womanhood fair;
Where music and footlights their votaries drew,
Thy soul’s living melody thrilled them anew;
But the rapture is hushed and the sweet voice is stilled,
The measure of life and its triumphs are filled. 

Where the wonders and beauty and wealth of the world
In bounty are lavished, in splendor unfurled,
Where the beat of the ocean throbbed back to her soul,
Where the billows of God in their majesty rolled.
Thy soul waited and watched. Lo ! across the white sand
The sun threw a path to the Wonderful Land,
O’er the billows of sorrow that washed the long beach
A form seemed to come and a hand seemed to reach;
O, sweeter and surer than earth love's dear tone
The call and the promise that made thee His own;
Far away from the wavering paths that we tread,
To where bliss never fades, where tears never are shed,
The messenger led, 'til thy feet once more trod
'Mid welcomes—the home of the Father and God.

Ah ! this picture I hold, which the magical sun
Caught and kept of thy face, of its charms only one;
Yet it lives as I gaze, till I see thee again,
Ever changing in beauty. as thought changed, and then 
Those eyes seem to answer—as reading me through—
The heart never questions the friend that is true. 
O, its calmness and beauty half chide as I dream,
For the lips wear their smiles, and the loving eyes beam
With faith, hope and charity steadfast and sure,
Sweet tokens that halo the heart that is pure.
Thou wert beautiful here, thou art lovelier there,
Thy cross laid aside, thy crown now to wear.

Farewell! 'til we meet, oft will memory bring
To the door of my heart on the night’s silent wing,
Sweet dreamy cadences, that lullaby keep  
To the beautiful eyes in their heavenly sleep.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, July 19, 1887.


﻿THE BIBLE.

	This book is called by some people a precious
volume, by others a worthless production. And
why this great difference of opinion? The first
consider it precious because from its sacred
pages they study the character of our Heavenly
Father, and His designs and purposes concern-
ing the human family; and since it was the re-
quest of an alwise Providence that His words
should be written, would it not be unwiso in us
to neglect to read the same?
	It certainly would be, for two reasons, one
of which is, that by reading those instructions


we develop the germ of the Deity, which all
possess, as also our reasoning powers. Our
Savior once said, “Search the Scriptures, for in
them ye think ye have eternal life, and these
are they which testify of me.” Another one is,
He also gives a portion of His Spirit to those
who earnestly seek to know His will.
	With this spirit we will more readily compre-
hend the importance of our mission to earth,
and how to fill our positions properly. He
judges us by the motives and intents of the
heart, and knows what motives prompt us to
read, or to act under all circumstances.
	Since this is our faith, could we yield to infi-
delity? What enjoyment would we expect
from such a source of reasoning?
	Could we believe for a moment that any of
the human family were natural born infidels?
That they did not believe in an alwise Provi-
dence, whose designs and purposes are for the
good of all who will give attention to His
laws, and who is no respector of persons, yet
He may be of characters? Yet all must live
and learn.
	I would ask, “Which is the sane person?
The one who respects and obeys the Bible, or
the one who throws it aside without any re-
spect to its sacred lessons?” I acknowledge
that it has been a great comfort and guide
to me. I do not wish to loose that prop and
be left without any other to lean upon. You
will notice those who destroy it leave you with-
out anything else as a substitute. Not only so,
but seem to say, “You need not trouble your-
self about the laws of God; we can make laws
to suit your cause, that you must and shall
obey.” We find those who live by righteous
laws themselves are better judges to set others
aright
	I always prefer and would vote for those
rulers who obey God and keep His command-
ments. I feel at home in their presence, be-
cause I know what to expect from them, and
also what they expect from me. In applying
our mind to the Savior’s laws or rule of action
we gain confidence in each other which could
not otherwise exist.
	He was called faithful and true, and those
who seek to live by His laws, will partake of
the same spirit; and rejoice in the same advance-
ment, and they will surely advance.
	May the Lord preserve me from being under
the control of those who acknowledge no God
or laws of God only those manufactured at will.
They are too fluctuating and uncertain to think
of, much less to give attention to, or try to be-
come acquainted with.
		M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, July 5, 1887.


[Column 1]
	TRIALS AND TEMPTATIONS.

	It is an indisputable fact that we, as a people,
are being tried, and that our trials will increase
instead of diminish; and also, that we are sur-
rounded with temptations of almost every
name and nature. Our fathers having had re-
vealed unto them the principles of life and
salvation, saw the necessity of putting into
practice what they knew God had commanded;
and for so doing they and their doctrine came
in contact with religious bigots and the many
contaminating influences that were fast bring-
ing mankind down to a state of degradation
that is past all redemption.
	There always has and always will be a con-
fliction between truth and error. Holy men of
God in days gone by have been tried and per-
secuted for standing up in defense of truth, and 
in many instances have laid down their lives
for the sake of that same truth that we, as a
people, are being tried and persecuted for. 
	Because of our religion we were driven into
these once western wilds, and, as has been said,
“we came willingly, because we had to.” And
after having made the desert to blossom as the 
[Column 2]
rose, we are again infested with the same de-
grading influence. We have those among us
who are not for us, who are ready and willing
to oppose us in everything we undertake to
do that would be for the benefit and advance- 
ment of the human family. And here we
have saloons, where spirituous drinks are dealt
out to all, both old and young, who will degrade
themselves by going there and partaking there-
of. And also places for gambling are to be
found in those dens or saloons, and there the
unsuspecting youth are persuaded to indulge,
to give way to these evil desires. And there
profanity is indulged in, and becomes a common
thing with those who resort there. Now, the
question naturally arises, “Why are these evils
and wicked practices carried on in Zion among
the honest in heart?” I am willing to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things. The
Lord has said that He would have a tried peo-
ple.
	The older portion of the community have
been tried in many ways, and it is necessary
that the younger portion be tried else. If we
do not taste the bitter we will not be able to
appreciate the sweet. If we had no tempta-
tions we would have no trials, and therefore
the word of the Lord would not be fulfilled.
If we are particularly weak on some particular
point, that is just where we are going to be
tried; so it behooves us to be on our guard, and
ever watch and pray that we will not be tried
more than we will be able to bear. “Blessed is
he that overcometh.” We should strive with
all our might, minds and strength to overcome
and rid ourselves of all our weaknesses and
imperfections. When Alexander the Great
had conquered the world, it is said that he sat
down and wept because there were no other
countries and kingdoms for him to subdue. But,
alas! he who was the master of the world, at
whose feet kings and nobles lay prostrate, he
who was esteemed the greatest and grandest
goneral living, failed to accomplish that all
important fete, and that was to master himself,
thus losing the commendation of all wise men,
“That he who governs himself is greater than
he who taketh a city.” He who will resist evil
temptations and overcome his weaknesses is
the persou whom the Lord will bless, sustain
and be pleased to own. And being surrounded
with so many Satanic influences it is our duty
to heed the injunction of the Apostle Paul,
when he says, “Above all, take unto yourselves
the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able
to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.”
And always remember that the tender, warning
voice of our guardian angels are ever striving
to hush the siren tones of the tempting world.
	I pray that we, as young people in Israel,
may be able to understand our true situations,
and that we may put on the whose armor of
God, and walk uprightly before Him in all
things, and I know that the time will come
when it will be said, “The victory is ours.
Truth hath prevailed.  		A. CAZIER.
	Nephi.


You cannot read history, unless you read it
upside down, without admitting that woman,
cramped, fettered, excluded, degraded as she
has been, has yet sometimes, with one ray of
her instinctive genius, done more to settle great
questions than all the cumbrous intellect of
the other sex has achieved.—Wendell Phillips.
	Poetry reveals to us the loveliness of nature
brings back the freshness of youthful feeling,
revives the relish of simple pleasures, keeps
unquenched the enthusiasm which warmed the
springtime of our being, refines youthful love,
strengthens our interest in human nature by
vivid delineations of its tenderest and softest
feelings, and through the brightness of its
prophetic visions helps faith to lay hold on the
future life.-—Channing.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten 
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
o regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 	
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 
SALT LAKE CITY, 			JULY 15, 1887.


INDEPENDENCE DAY.

	The celebration on the 4th of July made quite
a display on the streets,and in Liberty Park where
the people assembled, everything went off satis-
factorily to all. The procession was the great
feature, hundreds of people crowded the sidewalks
in carriages and on foot to see the parade, and all
appeared to enjoy the music and the sight-seeing
and to appreciate the occasion to its utmost. At
the head of the procession was Col. Page, Mar-
shall of the day with a cavalcade of horsemen.
Held’s band came next playing national music;
following the band were carriages containing offi-
cials Gov. West, Ex-Gov. Murray, Chief Justice
Zane, Secretary Hall, James H. Moyle Esq. The
Utah Commission, County officers and members
of the Constitutional Convention and other promi-
nent men and citizens. Then came Capt. Bishop
and a number of horsemen,the City Band Knights
of Pythias in full dress uniform, and next the
Colonial Car with the Goddess of Liberty, Miss
Celia Swenson personating the Goddess, and
thirteen other young girls representing the thir-
teen original states; the car was gorgously orna-
mented and sailors and fairies in costume at the
four corners gave it a very handsome appearance.
Another elaborately trimmed car followed, filled
with young ladies who each carried a streamer
having on it a name of one of the states of the
Union. Next came the Fire Brigade and then
the Base Ball Clubs all in uniform and the Loco
motive Engineers; these made quite a display with
their bright gay uniforms. Next in the parade
was the car filled with young ladies, designated
the Bouquet of Beauty. After this the trade dis-
plays and manufacturers fifteen or twenty vehicles
and machines. The showing in these was excel-
lent and they were arranged in good taste, with
banners, mottoes etc. emblematic of what they
represented. The last part of the procession
was styled the Antiques and Horribles, compris-
ing the absurd,humorous and oddities interspersed
very rarely with the beautiful, all, however, help-
ing to make variety to suit the taste of all who
congregated to witness the parade and celebrate
the day.
	On the Grand Stand at the Park the Federal
Officials and officers of the day,city and county offi-
cers and citizens were seated, the assembly was
called to order and first addressed by Gen. Eli H.
Murray; Prayer by Rev.T.C.Iliff; John M. Young
read the Declaration of Independence and the
band played “The Star Spangled Banner." Gov. 
West then delivered an oration; after he had con-
cluded his address T. E. Harper sung the Star
Spangled Banner; the next speech was from
Judge Zane,followed by one from James H. Moyle;
the band then played some soul stirring music and
the anthem America was rendered in an effective
and impressive manner by G. D. Pyper, M. J.
Thomas, Bessie Dean and Maggie Hull. This
completed the programme when the benediction
was prononnced by Rev. Ilift. This closed the
proceedings of the day at the Park.


﻿There was the usual applause and cheering and
so forth, and on the whole the day was an agreea-
ble one to all interested. The zeal and en-
thusiasm over Independence Day never dies out
in the heart of an American, no matter what
their position in life or circumstances may be. It
is a part of their nature born in them and inherited
from generation to generation.
   The display of fire works on Arsenal Hill in
the evening is said to have been the very best and
finest as well as most costly ever seen in this city.
There were very fine displays at several residences
in various parts of town and altogether the day
was a most enjoyable one.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL THOUGHTS. 

	The Constitutional Convention which met on 
June 30, adjourned on the 6th of July having com-
pleted the work undertaken by its members, viz., 
the framing of a Constitution to be submitted to 
the vote of the people and afterwards presented to 
the President and Congress of the United States
asking that Utah be admitted into the Union of 
States. This is the sixth Constitution framed and 
will be the sixth time the people of Utah have
sought to obtain a state government. The people
are entitled to recognition and no good reason can
be urged against the admission of this Territory. 
Everything is favorable so far as the condition 
of the Territory itself is concerned for it is abun-
dantly able to take upon itself the added responsi-
bility of statehood. 
	The new Constitution adopted by the Convention 
and which will undoubtedly be ratified by the peo-
ple at the coming election in August is in strict
conformity with the laws and regulations of other
states. What pretext any fair-minded person can 
conjure up against it, it is impossible at this time 
to imagine. It remains, however, to be proven
what will be done with the new Constitution 
if it is ratified by the people. It will certainly 
be objectionable to a certain class of men, who 
have made and are still trying to make so much
capital out of Mormonism as a hobby. One would
naturally think the topic had worn threadbare
long ago, but there are those who seem to think
they can gain notoriety, money and fame by "ex-
posing Mormonistm," as they call it, as if after all 
these years of half a century and more the people
had not become accustomed to the stale stories
circulated and reiterated so often. If congress
should happen to settle this matter of statehood
by admitting Utah and she should have the
opportunity of electing men to the highest offices
in the gift of the people or exercise a little home
rule one cannot help wondering what will become 
of some of the men, who for so many years have
followed the occupation of exposing Mormonism
to Congress and the fifty millions of people in the
United States. They will certainly take up a new
phase of the question or adopt some other method
for getting a living. And then there are the anti-
Mormon women, who have become known as 
writers of sensational anti Mormon literature, and
delivering lectures on the "Mormon Monster" and
kindred topics, what will they find to talk about
and write about after having found that all their
well laid schemes to keep Utah and the Mormons
out of the Union have failed. We shall see in 
good time. They have fretted and worried them-
selves a great deal over the affairs of the Mor-
mons, strange, too, when one considers how well 
satisfied they are to live next door to those "poor, 
degraded, ignorant creatures." One would think 
they would prefer to go elsewhere, but no, they 
are glad enough to settle down on the land that
the Mormons redeemed from the desert, and sub-
dued making it habitable; "this country belongs
to the United States and should be for the loyal citi-
zens." etc.,etc.;this is the sort of language used by 
one of the great men of the nation; well, the Mor-
mons belong to the United States the majority of 

[Column 2]
the citizens of this fair Territory were born under
the stars and stripes, many were born here in 
Utah and ought to be entitled to some privileges
and rights, and therefore there is little need to talk
about taking away the country for somebody else
while the veritable owners who have bought and
paid for their lands and built their homes are in 
possession.
	It is, perhaps, very fortunate for the Mormons
that there are some sensible people left yet, even
among the most noted men in the United States
who think this people have rights that ought to be 
respected and are not afraid to say so. But with
the Lord on the side of the Latter-day Saints, and
they feel fully assured of that fact, what cause
have they to fear? None whatever while they
walk according to the teachings and instructions 
He has given unto them through His servants
who preside over His Church upon the earth. 
Let come what will come, it will all work together
for the good of His people inthe end; and no man, 
or body of men, or governments, or principalities, 
or powers can hinder or stop the progress of the
Gospel upon the earth, for this Gospel, the same
Gospel the Savior taught, the Gospel preached by 
the "Mormon" Elders, so called, shall be preached
unto all nations and then shall the end come. And
all nations shall then acknowledge God and
His power and authority, for it is said, "every
knee shall bow and every tongue confess" etc. 
	This people are not staking their all upon be-
coming a state, as some of the outside seem to 
think, no indeed. The Latter-day Saints place
their trust in one who orders all things, and who 
will deal out even-handed justice to all, and 
whether the President and Congress and people
of these United States are willing to admit Utah
as a State or not will make no difference with the
work of God established in these last days, never
to be thrown down or given to another people.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE invite the young and the old and the middle
aged to contribute to the paper, giving the benefit 
of their best thoughts and ideas to those who
read, that it may be even more fully the EXPON-
ENT of the views and opinions of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The paper is
circulated far and wide, and we want it to contain
the best and truest principles, clearly and vividly 
set forth, that it may be a missionary in the homes
of the Saints, and wherever it may find a place
abroad among the people of the world, or in the
hands of the tourist and "the stranger within our
gates," of whom, in these days, there are a multi-
tude from time to time.
	REPORTS of conferences from the Relief Society
of Bear Lake Stake and the R. S.
and Y. L. M. I. A. of Juab Stake, and of the
district conference of Relief Society held at Wells-
ville, will appear in our next issue of the paper.
We have some verses and other articles on hand,
that will appear in good time, and some not exactly 
suitable for our little paper, but which contain ex-
cellent thoughts suited to the occasion for which
they were written and read. The Primary Band
in Richmond sent us the verses written for them;
these will be printed on slips of paper and dis-
tributed to the little folks, and in this way we feel
sure they will be more acceptable, and do more
good to the little fellows than if published in the
EXPONENT.
	THERE have been some material changes made
recently in the Deseret Hospital, which it is hoped
and believed will be an advantage to the institution.
For some time past there has not been a surgeon
or physician resident in the house, but the Board
of Directors have secured the services of Dr. Ro-
mania B. Pratt, well known in the city and terri-
tory as a skillful practitioner, and she has been
duly installed as Resident Physician there, and
will have entire charge of the Hospital in all its


departments for the present, although it is the in-
tention, also, sometime in the near future, to have
a Medical Superintendent, but there is a good
strong corps of visiting physicians, who are always
ready and willing when called upon or assistance
is required, to come and do all in their power.
The Board feel very grateful to these surgeons
and physicians, both men and women, who have,
from time to time, attended operations and so
forth, and thus given time and valuable services
and influence to the Hospital, which is still, it may
be said, in its infancy, and has had rather a hard
struggle to keep up, but there seems a brighter
prospect at present. There are many of the
members of the Deseret Hospital Association
that have not yet paid the annual fee of member-
ship, and the President and Board of Directors
would be very glad if at this particular time, when
they are greatly in need of means, those whose
dues are not paid, would come forward and pay
or send the money to the Secretary, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Office WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake
City, Utah. New memberships of either brethren
or sisters, are also earnestly solicited to assist in
this benevolent work and help sustain an institu-
tion where the sick and afflicted may be properly
nursed, cared for and treated by those who have
the spirit and influence of the Gospel.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S SPHERE.
	The word sphere, although relating to a limited
space, has quite an extensive meaning. The sun 
is called a sphere, and rightly, too; the planets
which comprise our solar system are spheres also,
and therefore the earth we occupy is a sphere.
The word also means, the circuit of action, of
knowledge, influence or power; having its bounds
and limits. Were it possible to step off the sur-
face of the earth into space, it might be said that
we had passed beyond this sphere, but we all
know this would be utterly impossible, hence we 
are confined to the circumference of the earth and
cannot go beyond it, at least not in our mortal 
state.
	Our existence, however, is a dual one. For
while the mortal part is limited to this earth and
cannot get beyond it, yet the immortal part can
reach out into space, can gaze upon and handle
with as much reality and comprehend with as
much certainty some things which we term
ethereal, as anything that we know naturally as
pertaining to this earth upon which we dwell. Yet
we are for the time being limited in our knowledge
as well as in our powers. While we are in the
midst of eternity, yet our progress in the knowl-
edge of eternal things is necessarily limited and
bounds are set from time to time limiting us in
our eternal progress within certain spheres, beyond
which for the time being we cannot pass no mat-
ter what our aspirations, or desires may be.
	Each woman possesses a separate and distinct
identity that cannot become any part of 
another identity. This identity is des-
tined to be preserved intact through all
the eternities that are to come and has
within it the elements of adaptation and fit-
ness to all conditions, both as pertaining to the
present as well as to the future. As we said we
are dual beings; yet is woman’s physical organism
—and although peculiar to herself—in most beauti-
ful harmony with her spiritual being. We are
speaking now of the entire race of womankind for
while individuals may be in some respects dissimi-
lar yet as a whole each individual very strongly
represents the other and it is not the single indi-
vidual that we are considering but woman as a 
whole.
	Although closely allied to man—and anomalous 
as it may appear—yet is her world or sphere dis-
tinct from his, as is plainly manifest in her entire 
life and being. Her desires, her hopes, her am-
[Column Two]
bitions, if at all correct, are decidedly womanly;
and when she assumes anything—either in speech
or conduct—that does not legitimately belong to
her she unsexes herself, and that, too, in the
ratio of such departure and is therefore to that ex-
tent outside of her proper sphere.
	Poets have made of woman an angel, while
satirists among many other things have declared
her to be an engima, neither of which is essentially
correct. Revelation teaches that there are elements
within her, which, when properly developed, will
take her far beyond any angelic condition or sphere,
while her true self is as plainly manifest as any
other fact when properly demonstrated.
	It is in the union of the sexes or the uniting of
woman with man, where the true study of woman
commences; all the other periods of her life are
simply preparatory to this grand climax of her
being and her completeness is not assured until
this goal is reached. Physical maturity may be
attained, it is true and so far we may justifiably
claim womanhood, but she is still lacking in com-
pleteness and this lack will always continue out-
side the marriage relation even should she live to
be a century old in this life, while in the future it
will still be more keenly felt. This fact as far as 
relates to this life is recognized the world over,
among the barbarians as well as the civilized; for
the spinster is generally made the butt of ridicule
and is often held in more or less contempt.
Woman's true sphere then, is wifehood and mother-
hood and everything pertaining to, or growing out
of these conditions is her natural element. How-
ever improved these conditions may become in
the future—as improved they will be—woman’s
advancement is dependent still upon these two 
conditions and is inseparably connected therewith
unless indeed she should choose to be an angel,
which is a condition very far below her true
sphere.
	There is incorporated in these two conditions
everything pertaining to her advancement, her
future queenly power, as well as a fulness of joy 
for evermore. In short, all that woman could de-
sire or crave or could possibly enjoy in the eter-
nities that are to come is incorporated and em-
bodied in these two conditions, while all her hopes
are centered therein and her fears and dreads in
this mortal life are as inseparably connected there-
with.
	The clamor that is made in the world to day
concerning "WOMAN'S RIGHTS" is in many
instances unwise and at the best relates to matters
that have but a feather’s weight as compared with
those all important interests involved in her being, 
and are unquestionably the result of a lack of 
true knowledge concerning herself. The all ab-
sorbing question abroad is, "Shall woman have
the right of franchise?" This is advocated with
such earnestness and zeal that we are almost led
to think that her whole existence and well being
depended upon this alone, while here in Utah with
the franchise taken away from us by Congress
after having possessed it for years, we make but
little ado, although we fully recognize the wrong
that has been thus inflicted upon us. Give woman
the franchise? Most certainly. In every State
and Territory of the Union as well as in every
part of the civilized world if she desires it and 
we declare that the ballot in the hands of women
would be as safe, as it now is in the hands of man
exclusively, and a little safer. But for the women
of Christendom to enter the political arena at this
time when cunning, chicanery, fraud and corrup-
tion flourish, would necessitate a cleansing first of
the Augean Stables which they would be prompted 
to attempt although the task would be an Hercu-
lean one. And all the world knows that woman's
faculty for removing dirt and filth is proverbial.
But there are a few things that some women have
advocated that appear to me to be altogether out
of place. For instance, a woman would make a 
very poor marshal, sheriff, or policeman, or con-
[Column Three]
stable; unless indeed the men who are liable to
arrest should willingly accompany her to a court
of justice or to jail, for her physical inferiority is
not adequate to this task, unless we except those
female Amazons that are only few in number and
for which we ought to feel very thankful.
	Neither is the judgment seat or the jury box any
part of woman's true sphere for besides many 
potent reasons that might be named; that stern
justice so necessary to be so often administered
seems to me altogether foreign to woman's nature
and the weighing of evidence, too,—often so very
conflicting—should, I think, be left to man whose
philosophical turn of mind admirably fits him for
both of these positions. I am not considering at
this time those corruptions and wrongs so often
exhibited by man, which might be elaborated at
great length but his very natural fitness for these
positions as against woman and vice versa.
	Woman makes a most excellent tutor of youth
and her services in a school board are of the
greatest value, while her very natural adaptation
to the sick room suggests that a thorough knowl-
edge of remedial agencies would make her all the
more efficient in this regard. From time imme-
morial has woman also been recognized as the 
most fitting and proper person to officiate in peri-
ods of accouchement which position involves a
most thorough and complete study of the science
of physiology, together with some knowledge of
anatomy; for ignorance in this regard becomes in
many instances criminal; human life being often
sacrificed in consequence. But as to woman's 
adaptability to become a surgeon in general has
always been a question in my mind. This I think
more legitimately belongs to the sterner sex. 
Those cases wherein woman has excelled in this
regard are the exception rather than the rule.
	We may claim, and perhaps justly too, that
woman's opportunities for the development of this
knowledge and skill have been very limited in the 
past, but the answer to this would be, that had
this been within woman's legitimate sphere she
surely would at some period during the past six
thousand years made exhibitions of the gift and
in so pronounced a manner, too, as to stamp her 
in this one instance at least the compeer of man,
for nature will show itself despite all obstacles.
	Now, my sisters, you cannot acuse me of selfish-
ness but must award to me that fairness which
I have sought to give this subject. Although I 
have been very concise and have noticed only a 
very few points among the many that might be 
named, I have not taken an abstract view of the
question but a general one and again assert, that I
firmly believe the legitimate sphere of woman is
ample for the development of all her powers, her
gifts and her natural endowments, and that within
these bounds can be found all the pleasures and
enjoyments necessary to her well being both here
and hereafter, and when the duties pertaining 
thereto shall have been fully performed we shall
arrive at that degree of fulness that constitutes
eternal felicity, and all within the circumference
of our own sphere. Therefore, WOMAN KNOW
THYSELF. 
							AUNT RUTH.


TIMELY REFLECTIONS.
	Aslant the misty morning air,through glittering 
circlets of rainbow hue, comes the glorious orb of
day peeping o’er yon snow-capped mountain peak,
casting its brilliant sheen o’er the teeming valley
below,where myriads of happy songsters are pour-
ing forth their glad welcome in a grand concert of
tuneful melody. Nature is all alive in radiant,
peaceful beauty, the discordant sounds of humani-
ty are hushed, the fragrance of bloom, the sound
of gently rushing waters, the glittering dewdrops
fill my senses with delight, and from the harmony
of sight and sound, my spirit gathers renewed
strength and buoyancy, and from my inmost soul


springs forth an anthem of thanksgiving and
praise for my birthplace, Zion, in whose develop-
ment and progress my greatest desires are cen-
tered. “Her people are my people, her God my
God'’, and under the direction of God’s inspired
servants all my labors shall be in union with those
who seek to establish Zion in righteousness. To
this end a still small voice whispers, “Neglect not
the gift within thee,” faint and undeveloped
though it be, its avenues of expression cramped
and crippled through lack of training and use and
the meagre facilities afforded for education before
the “desert blosomed like the rose," still a sense of
duty is urging on to action and endeavor. Thus
am I seated for a chat with the dear sisterhood of
Latter-day Saints, noble, intelligent, faithful and
God-fearing as I know them to be “with Improve-
ment our Motto and Perfection our Aim,” let us
reason together on subjects of mutual interest
and benefit. Freedom of thought, speech and the
press are still ours, though freedom of action and
expression at the polls has been most cruelly and
unjustly torn from us by the rulers of the great
nation, who so proudly boast of their honor and
chivalry to woman. Oh mockery! Does the
safety of a people or nation depend on the vote of
a few thousand women! Then indeed is the situa-
tion pitiable. Surely the grand structure of Ameri-
can independence must be tottering when Con-
gress enacts laws depriving women of the ballot
which they for 17 years exercised in an irreproach-
able manner. Truly we are the “down-trodden
women of Utah’' when the heads of our nation
conspire to oppress us. Still we rejoice in that
freedom wherewith Christ hath made us free; the
principles of the Gospel so despised and fought
against by the wicked give to woman this greatest
possible freedom, and will elevate her to the high-
est pinnacle of honor and refinement, for man is
not without the woman in the Lord and under
God’s laws their interest and advancement are
equal, “male and female created He them,” and
the Gospel surrounds women with a dignity and
importance undreamed of by Emperors, Kings or
presidents, and which they have no power to be-
stow, and while we are deprived of the right to
sustain by our vote those whom we have proved to
be our true friends in the past, we can still wield
an influence for the right by teaching our children
—our sons the importance of sustaining the con-
stitution of our country and every principle of
liberty, we can teach them to abhor the spirit of
bigotry and oppression—that prompted the gross
insult perpetrated upon their mothers, and like the
Nephite women, spoken of in the Book of Mor-
mon whose husbands were under oath not to shed
blood—we can inspire our sons (many  of whose
fathers are now bound by an odious test oath
from wielding the power of the franchise and
whose mothers are disfranchised without the cere-
mony of a hearing) with faith and resolution to
step forward and exercise the rights left them and
preserve the government of our fair territory from-
from being usurped by the clamorous minority
bent upon crushing out of existence those who
have made this country habitable to them.
	Our experience in the past, particularly the past
three years, has not inspired us with an over
amount of confidence in the justice or mercy of
our political rulers and the heartless Federal
Officials sent by them to administer their cruel
and oppressive laws. The Women of Utah—Lat-
ter-day Saints—have suffered too much from this
class to throw any power or influence in their
possession in favor of those who have proven
themselves to be their enemies—knowing this
the brave (?) minority have beseiged Congress to
strike the death blow at the power so much feared,
the ballot in the hands of a few thousand women.
And to the shame and disgrace of our nation, be it
said, her rulers yielded to their unmanly, ignoble
and cowardly request. To-day, like Samson, we
are shorn of our strength in one way, but we will

[Column Two]

abide the Lord’s time, when this nation will again
confer,unasked, the franchise upon the Women of
Utah.
	Oh, mothers! let us be alive to the mighty re-
sponsibilities of teaching and training our child-
ren in the principles of the everlasting Gospel.
Though we labor in obscurity and self-sacrifice,
that is only known by the angels, yet our labors
are not in vain, if we seek for wisdom and look to
the future good of those for whom we toil;
	"The kindly plans devised for other's good,
	So seldom guessed, so little understood,
	The quiet, steadfast love that sought to win
	Some wanderer from the woeful paths of sin,
					These are not lost."
	Our daily prayers for wisdom, patience and
firmness, our daily struggles for self-control and
discernment to avoid temptations, will all have an
influence for good. We cannot inspire our child-
ren with faith if we are lacking; we cannot teach
them Gospel truths if our own souls are not im-
bued with them; we cannot instill into their hearts
a high sense of duty to God and their fellow men,
if we are not guided by this important principle.
We may teach our little ones to pray, but if they
never see us bow in humble, earnest suplication,
what will it avail? We may plead with our
daughters to put away pride, while we toil in trim-
ming their clothing and bedecking ourselves in
many and fashionable changes of apparel. If we
were seeking first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness, would we not oftener lay aside our
oftimes vain and unfrofitable occupations, that
perish with the doing, and take our precious little
ones in our arms and impress upon their plastic
minds principles of truth that will fortify them
against the snares of the evil one? Oh, we think
we are too busy, oftimes with our fancy work, to
keep our little ones employed, while habits of
indolence are weaving destructive chains around
them. More anon.
						     SUN FLOWER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PAST.

	Who can realize how swiftly the tide or current
of time is carrying us onward to our eternal des-
tiny? Never before did I see this subject as
vividly as I did at the funeral of Sister Augusta
Cobb Young.
	It seemed but a few weeks since we met at Pitts-
burg. She was with a company of Saints from
Boston; we were with a company from Buffalo en
route for the same place. That place was
Nauvoo.
	It was in the year of 1843. Our captain was
Bradford W. Elliott; theirs, judging from appear-
ances, was President Brigham Young, at this
time President of the Twelve Apostles. It was
the first time we had seen any of the people of
Nauvoo. We were delighted to find ourselves in 
company with Heber C. Kimball, one of the
Twelve Apostles, Elders George A. Smith and
Daniel Spencer, the latter and his aged parents;
also father and mother Alley, to whom we gave
this title because of their age. They were going
to Nauvoo to see their daughter, who was the wife
of Bro. Bates Nobles.
	Sister Cobb at this time had a sick babe. We
stopped at Cincinnati three days; during this time
the babe died. Since that time all the above
named persons have died; only a step-sister and
myself survive. Sister Cobb died Feb. 2nd,
1887.
	There were others of the company whose fate I
did not learn, not being as familiarly acquainted
with them, excepting one family by the name of
Brown, at whose house we boarded while waiting
in Buffalo for the company to start. My step-sis-
ter, Ann Dunlap, and myself left Utica to join this
company, which would start in the fall. Our
parents had gone the previous season.

[column 2]
	When we arrived at Nauvoo we found that they
lived on a farm out of the city. I went to see Sis-
ter Brown, who had a sick child. I found her
comfortably situated, with food and fuel, etc., but
quite unhappy. “How do you feel,” she asked, “to
see the Twelve riding around in their carriages,
and we stuck down here in the mud?” “Well,” I
replied, “if they are out of the mud I am glad of
it; and if I am faithful I will see the day when I
can ride in my carriage.” I saw nothing to grum-
ble at if I could have health.
	She did not see the subject as I did, her child
got better, and the next time I inquired for them
I learned they had gone to St. Louis. They only
stayed in Nauvoo two weeks.
	I well remember how anxious I was to see Sister
Catherine Clawson, the mother of Bishop H. B.
Clawson. She was baptized in Utica at the time
that I was, and left the next spring for Nauvoo. I
went east about sixty miles to visit my mother’s
youngest sister. Mother could not think of going
so far west without bidding her goodbye.
	Aunt Mary had two sons and one daughter. This
daughter was very low with the consumption. She
said to me, “You must stay with mother, she will
be so lonely when I am gone.” She had been
raising blood for weeks, and was beyond the reach
of help. Mother consented to let me stay; and
Father Dunlap also consented to let Ann wait un-
til I was ready to go. She waited at Sister Mon-
roe’s in Utica, who had taught me the trade of
tailoring. My cousin, Ann Maria Dodge, only
lived two weeks, when she passed quietly away.
Peace be to her ashes, for she was a good girl.
She was twenty-two years of age, but knew noth-
ing of the Gospel. Mother received the Gospel
so joyfully I felt quite sure that Aunt Mary would,
as soon as she had time to investigate, but to my
astonishment she would not read anything, but
insisted that her minister would (figuratively
speaking) tear me all to pieces.
	“Well," said I, “then he must tear the Bible to
pieces, for I simply believe the Bible.” He came,
and in a very genteel manner tried to show me my
error. My arguments from the Scripture were
quite ahead of his, and I am sure he saw it. He,
beiieved in election, and accordingly all who are
elected to be saved would be. This ended the
argument.
	My uncle and aunt were not able to convince
me that our faith was wrong, and finally gave up
the idea of trying to do so. My sister came from
Utica, Oneida Co., to Glen, Montgomery Co., to
say that there would be a company start from
Buffalo in September. Accordingly we soon pre-
pared to start on our journey, and arrived in
Nauvoo, as above stated, in the month of October,
on the steamer Nautilus.
							M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 30, 1887.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake was held in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, on the 14th of
June, 1887, at 10 o’clock a.m. After the usual
opening exercises, Coun. Olivia Widerborg ad-
dressed the assembly, and reported the Scandi-
navian Society favorably. Spoke of the great
mission of mothers in our home, in our actions,
and in every respect to set an example. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow said we expected Sister
Richards and Sister Shirtliff from Ogden, but 
perhaps they would be here before noon. “It
is our privilege to live up to the commandments
of the Lord; we are under a responsibility to
the Lord and each other.” Spoke of Sister
Keller, President of the Mantua Relief Society.
“She has been very sick for a long time; let us
all remember her in our prayers.”


Sister Dewey reported Deweyville verbally.
Sister Jensen reported Mantua Society, and
spoke feelingly about their dying President,
Sister Keller; told of her goodness, and the
comfort she had been to her sisters.
	Sister Anderson reported the 3rd Ward; Sis-
ter Peery, Three Mile Creek; Sister Albertsen,
Bear River City; Sister Watkins, the 4th Ward;
Sister Hubbard, Willard City; Sister Mary E.
Snow, 2nd Ward Brigham City; Sister Fannie
Graehl made excellent remarks. Sister Sus-
annah P. Booth reported the 1st Ward Brig-
ham City. All these sisters gave good instruc-
tions, and spoke upon the duties and responsi-
bilities of the mothers in Israel and the women
of Zion, touching upon many points of special
interest, and zealously urged all the sisters to
live humbly, and to be obedient to counsel and
prayerful at all times.
	Singing. Benediction by Prest. Harriet
Snow.

	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
minutes of the previous conference were read
and accepted.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said, "There are many
duties resting upon us, as members of this
Church and members and officers of the Relief
Society. It is necessary that we should culti-
vate a feeling of love and union. If we em-
brace these opportunities of meeting together,
gathering intelligence and wisdom, when we 
get thoroughly schooled in the principles of
our religion, then we shall be strong and firm,
without fears, but if we are negligent we shall 
lose the spirit of our religion.
	Emilia D. Madsen spoke a short time on
truthfulness and the way of gaining each other's 
confidence.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards, of Weber Stake
R. S., said, "I was very pleased to hear the 
minutes, and Sister Snow and Madsen. I feel
there is a good spirit here." Spoke of the great
difficulty in keeping a secret. "Our religion is 
of that nature that we can find plenty to do; I
never knew a time when there was more oppor-
tunity to do good than at present. I would
not care for religion if it was only for to-day
or to-morrow, but it is for all eternity if we
live right. When we meet together in the 
Spirit of the Lord, talking of His mercy and
love, don't we feel good—much better than
if we go to all the festivals?" Spoke of the 
many duties of women. "The men could not
get along without us; we could not get along 
without them. If anything goes wrong with
me, that I don't feel good when I go to bed, I
have to get rid of it before I lay down to 
sleep. I want to feel happy and enjoy life
while here." Knew how hard it was for
mothers of a family to come to meeting, and 
how much patience they had to exercise. "I
desire to live faithful. I think I can feel that
you are going onward in Brigham City. I 
used to think if I could only keep faithful till
I was forty years old I would be pretty sure,
but I have seen people seventy years old aposta-
tize; it is only those who keep faithful to the 
end who will receive the reward."
	Sister Shirtliff said, "I feel here a spirit of
sisterly love  Woman's work is a very mixed 
one. I think there is a great field of charity
for women to do good for each other; we can
find much to do among the sick and the poor;
wherever we can assist each other we should do
so happily; if it is not put down in our minute
book it will be recorded in heaven."
	Sister Harding bore her testimony. Spoke
of the great danger in letting our girls go out
to the Gentiles.
	Bro. Dudley said, "I have enjoyed what I 
have heard. It would do me good if I could
put it into practice. The Spirit of God has
been with us to-day."
	The congregation sang, "We thank Thee,
[Column Two]
O God, for a prophet." Adjourned for three
months.
				EMILIA D. MADSEN, Sec.

			SALT LAKE STAKE
	The Relief Society quarterly conference of
this Stake was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, Thursday, June 23, 1887, at 10 a.m.,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the stand
were Mrs. Z. D. H. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith 
and Mrs. H. M. Whitney. Meeting opened
with the usual exercises and verbal reports of 
the presidents. The reports showed that the
several organizations were in good condition,
and an increased attendance, and an improve-
ment in good works.
	After the reports were given, Prest. Horne
addressed the sisters on the great importance
of the duties assigned them in the Relief So-
ciety, and urged them to a diligent performance
of the same.
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p.m. with 
singing, and prayer was offered by Sister B.
W. Smith.

	Afternoon session: There were many more
present, and the presidents from country
places gave reports of the condition of the
society over which they presided, all being in 
prosperity and in improvement in good works.
	Sister M. A. Hyde, President of the Relief
Society in Sanpete Stake, then addressed the
meeting on the cultivation and education of
the children of Zion; also spoke upon the
principle of plural marriage, considering it the
highest type of marriage, and spoke of the
very fine, noble children growing up in our
midst; thought we should bring them up intelli-
gently, and gave much excellent instruction.
	Prest. Horne spoke upon the storing of grain,
referred to the fall of Babylon, and the prep-
aration necessary for that great event; also
gave counsel about supporting by membership
and donations the Deseret Hospital.
	“Sister Zina” spoke briefly upon the times in
which we are living, the great events transpir-
ing, and the crisis in this kingdom; thought
our work would enlarge, etc.
	Coun. H. M. Whitney thought this work
was rolling on with mighty speed; referred to
her father's sons who were zealous in the work, 
and made allusion to the principle of plural
marriage as a divine order, etc.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, Prest. of the Y. L. of 
this Stake, made some very appropriate re-
marks, and also spoke of plural marriage as
from God, and thought it a subject women
should speak upon, etc.
	Sister Hyde spoke in the gift of tongues, and 
Sister Young gave the interpretation, after
which Prest. Horne made closing remarks, and
the meeting was adjourned for three months 
with singing and a benediction by Sister Sarah
M. Kimball.
			Y. L. M. I. A.
	There was an interesting quarterly confer-
ence of the Y. L. held on Friday, June 24th,
in the 14th Ward Hall, though there were not 
so many as usual present.  Mrs. M. A. Freeze
presided, assisted by her Counselor, Mrs. M. Y.
Dougall.  Verbal reports were given by the
officers of the several Associations in the Stake,
though all were not reported, which is a matter
of regret, as at these conferences general in-
struction is given for the benefit of all and
their future progress, and it is expected that
each Association will be heard from. These 
young women in their organizations are mak-
ing rapid improvement in such studies as are
calculated to develop their mental and spiritual 
powers, and give them a thorough knowledge
of their religion, their own and other countries,
and the science of government. They also
contribute to charitable purposes of various
kinds, and each association pays, or is expected
[Column Three]
to pay, monthly to the Deseret Hospital, re-
ceiving credit for the full amount, which may
be refunded in payment on any patient they 
choose to send to the institution for treatment. 
A short time ago Prest. Freeze proposed that 
the Associations in this Stake assist in emigrat-
ing some worthy persons from the old country
who were not in circumstances to pay their own 
emigration.  Means has been already collected
sufficient to bring out three adult persons, and
this plainly shows that "where there's a will
there's a way," and furthermore, that the Lord
blesses those who are willingly helpful to the
poor. Sweet charity! well doth it become the
young, and in  blessing are we blest, and in
giving more than in receiving.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters R. R.
Grant, E. Howard, B. W. Smith and M. A.
Hyde, women of large experience in the
Church, whose teachings to the young are ever
motherly and wise.
	Dr. Ellis R and Maggie C. Shipp each spoke
to the young ladies on appropriate subjects, in
a most interesting manner, calculated to awaken
thought and inspire noble sentiments. They
were also addressed by some of the leading 
officers of these valuable Associations for the
advancement of the young daughters of Zion.
Some matters of business were transacted, and 
the conference adjourued for three months.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	A Relief Society conference of the Oneida
Stake of Zion, held in Clifton District, June
8th, 1887. Meeting opened at 10 o'clock a.m.
Present on the stand, Stake President, Eliza-
beth Fox, Second Counselor, Mary Hawks,
President Hendricks of Oxford, President Jane
M. Howell and her two Counselors of Clifton,
and Counselor Mary Ann Paskin of Treasure-
ton; also Patriarch Milo Andrus of Oxford,
Elders William Webster and Lewis Petty.
The choir sang, "An angel from on high."
Prayer was offered by Elder William Webster.
The choir sang, "Truth reflects upon our
senses." President Fox invited all the presi-
dents and representatives present to come to the
stand. Minutes of the previous conference
read and received.
	Prest. J. M. Howell represented the Clifton
ton Society as being fully organized and in 
good order. 
	Prest. Hendricks reported the Oxford Society
as doing well.  Said the sisters had done con-
siderable work since she had presided, and felt
well and benefitted by the sisters' visit.
	Coun Mary Ann Paskin reported the
Treasureton branch as doing well.
	Coun. Mary Hawks said, "I am happy to
meet you once more, dear sisters. We have 
traveled many miles in company with the
brethren of this Stake, and have met many of 
the sisters and held quite a number of meetings. 
I am pleased to hear that the brethren meet 
with you once in a while; it is very encourag-
ing to the sisters. We should be kind to each 
other, and especially to those who are left to
provide for their families without the aid of
father and husband; they should not be neg-
lected. We should be very wise in counsel-
ing our children, for they are our hope and our
all. There is a great labor for us to perform
as sisters. You should attend your meetings,
and especially the Relief Society meetings,
where you can talk upon subjects that cannot 
by talked on in other meetings. Mothers, I 
say to you all, read good books, and often lecture
on the laws of human nature. You should
guard against all things which are injurious to 
your health. Do not neglect your duties in the
society for your work; if you wait for the time
when you have nothing to do you will never go,
for a mother's work is never done. Exercise
faith in the ordinances of the Gospel. We, as 
mothers, have a right to administer to the sick
in the absence of the priesthood.'


Prest. Fox said, “I am well pleased with the
reports and minutes of Relief Society in this
Stake. I feel to encourage in lecturing, and I
will advise the young ladies to meet with you
and receive the benefit. The teachers should
visit regularly. You should be diligent in
looking after the poor in your wards. Cheer
up the sisters, especially the ones who are left
alone. We are a blest people, for we live in
the age of building temples and working in
them for those who have died without a kuowl-
edge of the Gospel. Girls should not go into
the creeks to bathe, but they should bathe often
in proper places in warm water. I will say to
the girls, be virtuous and chaste, and never
dare to neglect to pray. I say to the sisters,
attend to your meetings, so you may be bene-
fited and your officers be encouraged. Do not
neglect to lay up grain and take care of it. I
would like the brethren to help build good
granaries, so the mice cannot destroy the grain;
our grain is very precious, and should be taken
good care of.”
	Elder William Webster said, “The Sisters
are traveling in the Stake to instruct the sisters
and children upon many subjects which are
necessary for them to understand. We have
repented, been baptized, and many of us have
received forgiveness of sins, and are in posses-
sion of a portion of the Holy Ghost, whose
office is to lead to all truth. We should com-
ply with all the requirements of the Gospel so
we may be counted with the worthy at the last
when Christ shall come to make up His 
jewels.”
	Patriarch Milo Andrus of Oxford said, “I
have felt inspired in your meeting; I have felt
inspired by the beautiful morning, and by the
appearance of life and growth outside of the
house. It is very important for us all to under-
stand the laws of life and health. The Gospel
found us all in a very ignorant state pertaining
to the knowledge of God. The brethren should
sustain the Relief Society by their presence.
Joseph the Prophet, and Hyrum the Patriarch,
and many more noble brethren, set the example
in their life-time. The Society should try to
create work for their daughters and sisters, that
they may not be compelled to go to the outside
for employment. The young people should
not dare to trifle with the springs of life, that
their offspring may be noble sons and daughters
of God, as He has reserved the most noble
spirits to come forth in this age. By observing
the laws of God all this can be brought about.
We should so live that we can dedicate our
bodies to God, feeling we have done His will
and kept His commandments. There is no
danger, truth will prevail. This kingdom will
come off victorious; only wait.”
	Bishop William Garner said, “I am thank-
ful for the visit of the sisters, and for their
timely instruction.”
	Prest. Fox thanked those present for their
good attention.
	Conference was then adjourned subject to ap-
pointment. The choir sang, ”O, say, what is
truth?” Benediction by Elder Lewis Petty.
	While the Relief Society held their meeting
in the ward house, the Stake Presidency of the
Primary held a meeting in the Society Hall,
which was crowded to overflowing.
	At 2 o’clock a.m. a ward meeting was held,
Stake Counselor George C. Parkinson presiding.
The time was occupied first by Elder William
Webster of Franklin, secondly, by Elder Riley
Davis, and lastly, by Coun. George C. Parkin-
son. All gave wise and timely instructions.
Conn. Saul Hale and wife, both of the Stake
Presidency, were prevented from attending this
conference by an accident.
	The enjoyable visit of our honored brethren
and sisters, with so much good instruction, was

[column 2]
crowded is so short a time, that this report
hardly does credit to the occasion.
					D. E. DUDLEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with deep feelings of regret and sorrow that we re-
cord the death of one of our most esteemed sisters, Sophia
Berg, who departed this life Dec. 10th, 1886, at her home
in Santaquin, Utah, after a long and painful sickness, caused
by consumption. Deceased was born in Var a Finnland,
May 19th, 1845. She was a faithful teacher in the Relief
Society, meek and humble in spirit and exemplary in all
the relations of life. She was beloved by all who knew her,
and died in the hope of a glorious resurrection, to inherit
eternal life in the mansions of the just. She leaves a hus-
band and aged mother, with a large circle of relatives and
friends to mourn her loss.

	DIED, at her home in Santaquin, Sister Annie Parson
Swenson, May 16th, 1887, from a lingering illness of about
nine months duration. Her age was 66 years, 8 months
and 14 days. She was bereft of her husband in a very
sudden and cruel way some fifteen years since, and has
lived a widow ever since. She labored hard supporting
herself and donating as liberally as her circumstances would
permit to aid in the great work she was engaged in. She
was a very faithful and efficient teacher in the Relief Society,
which office she has held with honor for the last seventeen
years, and was always ready to faithfully perform any duty
that was required of her. She embraced the Gospel in her
native country, Swedon, in the year 1857; and emigrated
to Utah in the year 1860. She leaves an adopted daughter
and a large circle of friends to mourn her loss.

	To the memory of Sister Edna F. Tietjen, the beloved
wife of August Tietjen, who died June 15th. 1887. She
was born in Mecklenberg, Strilts, Germany, Sept. 8th,
1825, and emigrated to Utah with her husband and family
in the year 1859, having previously united themselves with
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From
that time forward she was devoted to her religion. Her
door was always open to receive and hospitably entertain
the servants of God, and to all who sought her for aid and
counsel. She held the office of treasurer in the Relief So-
ciety here for the past sixteen year reflecting great credi
on herself and honor to the Association. She was modes
and retiring, yet possessing many rare qualities of heart and
mind. She died as she had lived, beloved and respected
by all who knew her, leaving a husband, eight children and
twenty-six grandchildren, also a large circle of friends to
mourn her loss.

	These three dear sisters now at rest
		Were highly prized by those who knew their worth.
	Their missions were to comfort and to bless,
		While God saw fit to lend them on the earth;
	They labored with untiring zeal.
		Nor deemed their tasks too hard to bear,
	Till God in mercy called them home— 
		Bright crowns and homes await them there.

	Resolutions of Respect on the death of the above
named sisters adopted at a meeting of the Relief Society
of Santaquin, held July 7th, 1887.
	Whereas, Their labors in our Association have been
faithfully performed, we feel that some proper recognition
of their virtues be recognized among us, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society, do
deeply mourn the loss of such valuable and faithful co-
laborers.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to their relatives, and have the same published in the Ex-
ponext; and keep a copy on our record.

					ELIZABETH STICKNEY, Prest.
					ELIZABETH WALL,
		Committee.	BETTIE BOSS,
					HANNAH KIRKMAN,
					ANN J, STICKNEY, Sec.,


Dr. Romania B. Pratt, 
Office and Residence at the Deseret Hospital,
		Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City.

The Warm Springs car passes the Hospital, which 
can also be reached by Telephone No. 269. 

﻿R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
		H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses' and In-
ant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1887.			No.	5.


﻿TO JOHN TAYLOR.

Thou Chieftain in Zion! henceforward your name
Will be class'd with the martyrs, and share in their fame:
Through ages eternal, of you will be said,
"With the greatest of Prophets he suffer'd and bled."

When the shafts of injustice were pointed at him,
When the cup of his suff'ring was fill'd to the brim,
When his innocent blood was inhumanly shed,
You shar'd his afflictions and with him you bled.

When around you, like hailstones, the rifle balls flew,
When the passage of death open'd wide to your view,
When the Prophet's freed spirit through martyrdom fled,
In your gore you lay welt'ring—with martyrs you bled.

All the scars from your wounds, like the trophies of yore
Shall be ensigns of honor, till you are no more;
And by all generations of you shall be said,
"With the best of the Prophets in prison he bled."
					Vol. I Poems by Eliza R. Snow.
July, 1844.


THE SMILE TRIUMPHANT.

He has gone from our midst! from our frail mortal view.
Of its earthly Head, gifted and valiant and true,
Again is the Latter-day kingdom bereft;
For the third time the Twelve as its leaders are left.

An exile no longer—the news spread abroad,
Our Prophet and Seer had gone Home to His God.
To the hearts of his family and people all sore,
There remained but to gaze on his features once more.

To some his fine face appeared shrunken and dark
And still of deep suffering carried the mark;
But I saw only this—as I lingered my while—
The brave look triumphant, the calm, holy smile.

That smile so inspiring to Saints everywhere,
Which only the good and the faithful could wear;
A smile full of meaning, so rich and so grand,
That the world might behold, but could not understand.

The smile which portrayed the strong, masterly mind,
At peace with his God, with himself and mankind;
The smile which said plainly, as language could say,
"I have done every duty that came in my way.

Let the wicked their dark, downward pathway pursue;
They have nothing in me, they know not what they do;
Though they mock at the Truth, though they rage and
	revile,
Though they hound me, and kill me, I TRIUMPH AND
	SMILE!"

Dear memory ever will tenderly trace
The smile so habitual to that loved face;
And joy that in taking a final adieu,
That smile, fall of Glory, came last to the view.
		L. Green Richards.				LULA.


[Column 1]
GRAPHIC DESCRIPTION OF THE
SCENE IN CARTHAGE JAIL.

	CARTHAGE, June 27th, 1844.

	A shower of musket balls was thrown up 
the stairway against the door of the prison in
the second story, followed by many rapid foot-
steps.
	While Generals Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
Mr. Taylor and myself, who were in the front
chamber, closed the door of our room against
the entry at the head of the stairs, and placed
ourselves against it, there being no lock on the
door, and no catch that was unsealable.

[Column 2]
	The door is a common panel, and as soon as
we heard the feet at the stairhead a ball was
sent through the door, which passed between
us, and showed that our enemies were despera-
does, and we must change our position.
	General Joseph Smith, Mr. Taylor and my-
self sprang back to the front part of the room,
and General Hyrum Smith retreated two-thirds
across the chamber, directly in front of and
facing the door. 
	A ball was sent through the door, which hit
Hyrum on the side of the nose, when he fell
backwards, extended at length, without moving 
his feet.
	From the holes in his vest (the day was
warm and no one had their coats on but myself),
pantaloons, drawers and shirt, it appeared evi-
dent that a ball must have been thrown from 
without through the window, which entered his
back on the right side, and passed through,
lodging against his watch, which was in his
right vest pocket, completely pulverizing the
crystal and face, tearing off the hands and
mashing the whole body of the watch. At the
same instant the ball from the door entered his
nose.
	As he struck the floor he exclaimed em-
phatically, “I am a dead man.” Joseph looked
towards him and responded, “O dear! Brother
Hyrum,” and opened the door two or three
inches with his left hand, discharged one barrel
of a six-shooter (pistol) at random in the entry,
from whence a ball grazed Hyrum’s breast,
and entering his throat passed into his head,
while other muskets were aimed at him and
some balls hit him.
	Joseph continued snapping his revolver
around the casing of the door into the space as
before, three barrels of which missed fire, while
Mr. Taylor, with a walking stick, stood by his
side and knocked down the bayonets and mus-
kets which were constantly discharging through
the doorway, while I stood by him, ready to 
lend any assistance, with another stick, but
could not come within striking distance without
going directly before the muzzles of the guns.
	When the revolver failed we had no more 
firearms, and expected an immediate rush of
the mob, and the doorway full of muskets, half-
way in the room, and no hope but instant death
from within.
	Mr. Taylor rushed into the window, which 
is some fifteen or twenty feet from the ground.
When his body was nearly on a balance, a ball
from the door within entered his leg, and a ball
from without struck his watch, patent lever, in
his vest pocket near the left breast and smashed
it into “pi,” leaving the hands standing at 5
o'clock, 16 minutes and 26 seconds, the force
of which ball threw him back on the floor, and 
he rolled under the bed, which stood by his
side, where he lay motionless, the mob from the
door continuing to fire upon him, cutting
a piece of flesh from his left hip as large as a
man's hand, and were hindered only by my
knocking down their muzzles with a stick,
while they continued to reach their guns into
the room, probably left handed, and aimed their
discharge so far round as almost to reach us in
the corner of the room to where we retreated
and dodged, and then I recommenced the at-
tack with my stick. 
	Joseph attempted as a last resort to leap
the same window from which Mr. Taylor fell,
when two bullets pierced him from the door,
and one entered his breast from without and

[Column 3]
he fell outward, exclaiming; “O, Lord, my
God!” As his feet went out of the window
my head went in, the balls whistling all around.
He fell on his left side a dead man.
	At this instant, the cry was raised, “He’s
leaped the window!” and the mob on the stairs
and in the entry, ran out.
	I withdrew from the window, thinking it of
no use to leap out on a hundred bayonets, then
around General Smith’s body.
	Not satisfied with this, I again reached my
head out of the window and watched some
seconds to see if there were any signs of life,
regardless of my own, determined to see the
end of him I loved. Being fully satisfied that
he was dead, with a hundred men near the
body, and more coming round the corner of
the jail, and expecting a return to our room, I
rushed towards the prison door at the head of
the stairs, and through the entry from whence
the firing had proceeded, to learn if the doors 
into the prison were open. 
	When near the entry, Mr. Taylor cried out,
“Take me.” I pressed my way until I found
all doors unbarred, and returning instantly,
caught Mr. Taylor under my arm and rushed
by the stairs into the dungeon, or inner prison,
stretched him on the floor and covered him
with a bed in such a manner as not likely to be
perceived, expecting an immediate return of
the mob. 
	I said to Mr. Taylor, “This is a hard case to
lay you on the floor, but if your wounds are
not fatal, I want you to live to tell the story.”
I expected to be shot the next moment, and 
stood before the door awaiting the onset.
	WILLARD RICHARDS.


RUBY LAMONT.

	You are not “alone on the watchtower,” as
you have felt yourself. There is, at least, one
other woman in Zion, who is with you heart
and hand. One in whose breast the sentiments
expressed in your “Idol of To-day” meets an an-
swering echo. An aged mother in Israel, after
reading your article, said to me, “that will suit
you, and it is good.” Her opinion was correct
it does suit me.
	But, sister Ruby, I have lately formed the
conclusion in my own mind, that it is of no
use for me to feel grieved over the wasted time
thought and means of others.
	They have their weaknesses to battle with,
I have mine. If I can manage to overcome
my own it is all I can do; all, perhaps, that
will be required of me.
	You will likely question, is it not our duty
as thinkers and workers among “the proud
daughters of Zion,” to lift our voices against
the vainty and follies which are everywhere
so prevalent? It has seemed so to me in times
that are passed, but not now. If the warning
voice of the late Prophet Brigham Young,
which was ever so earnest upon these points,
can be so soon and so entirely forgotten by his
people; if the written word of God by His
ancient prophet, which you have so liberally
quoted, and which was of such great import-
ance that the prophet Nephi failed not to em-
phatically repeat the same to his people, can
be so ungraciously overlooked and ignored,
what effect would your voice, or mine, be likely
to have in the matter, other than to bring con-
tempt upon ourselves?


﻿One of the beloved and honored leading
ladies of our people, once told me I had no in-
fluence among my sisters because of my plain
attire. My answer was, “But I have a clear
conscience, which, to me, is preferable."
	Later, the mother and grandmother of some
of our fashion-loving young ladies, asked me
why I did not talk to the girls about their
pride and vanity in dress. To this I answered,
“We often hear the remark that, ‘example is bet-
ter than precept;' and if my example has no
weight with the young ladies, neither would
anything I could say touch their understand-
ings.  All I can do is to pray for them."
	With heartfelt sympathy and love, I am,
		Your Sister in the Gospel of peace,
					L. GREENE RICHARDS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

Continued.
	Paulsboro, May 6, 1885. Sister Anna and
I feel weary after our trip to Philadelphia yes-
terday. We rest in the morning, and after
dinner go out for a walk. She takes me over
some old historic ground, and shows me where
an old fort stood during the revolution. There
was a military post here, and all this part of
the country is full of interest as connected
with the war. There is a great interest taken
in relics of the revolution and the period pre-
ceding it. I am constantly shown, with a feel-
ing almost amounting to reverence, old land-
marks, furniture and other articles connected
with a long past period. My father was raised
in New Jersey, and I suppose many of the
name are in this part of the country. Sister
Anna has a friend whose married daughter’s
name is Mounts. I wonder if there is any
connection in the name. We call on the lady,
who is very pleasant, and speak to her about
the name, but she tells us her son-in-law spells
his name Mounce, but there are many of the
name down in the eastern part of the state.
We walk on down a green lane, through a fine
looking farm and past a semicircle of ever-
greens, where we find a neat cottage surrounded
by green lawns and flower gardens. It over-
looks the Deleware River, and is one of the
most romantic little nooks I have seen. Anna
goes to find the lady of the house, who is at a
little distance, assisting, or being assisted by a
small boy in clearing off the grounds. I run
down on the bank of the river, which is covered
with white sand and pebbles, and so clean, from
the washing of the tide, that one can sit down
without soiling their clothes. I feel as though
I could spend hours here, watching the river
and the boats as they float lazily about, drag-
ging their nets for shad, and picking up the
pebbles that glisten in the sand. A steamboat
goes puffing past, and stops at the landing a
little way up the river. It seems like a dream,
and I almost imagine myself a child again.
But I am warned that I must not linger too
long, for Anna is waiting for me, and, with
my handkerchief full of pebbles, I reluctantly
turn my face toward the house.
	I am introduced to Mrs. Dick, who is a
widow lady, and lives here entirely alone. She
is a very sweet looking lady of about seventy.
Her children have married and gone out in the
world, and her chief company and protector is
a large black New Foundland dog. She showed
us the family portraits on the walls, and told
us something of her quiet life until it was time
to go, and with a feeling of regret we turned
from the place whose charms held such a fas-
cination over my heart. If ever I write a ro-
mance my heroine shall have just such a
home.
	After supper Anna and I go to spend the
evening with Mrs. Flowers. The old lady is a

[Column 2]
relict of the civil war, if that is a proper way
of speaking, and related many interesting inci-
dents. She had a daughter who was very beauti-
ful. She shows us her picture, and I think I never
saw a lovelier face. She killed herself in a fit
of temporary insanity not long ago. The old
lady is made of the sterner stuff that it takes
to face the buffetings of the world, but she
grows pathetic as she takes us through the
house and shows us her daughter’s room; her
books and pictures and little articles that show
taste and refinement. Her lovely child has
gone, and her grief is a dead grief, but she
holds in her home a living grief, a burden of
daily and hourly endurance, in the person of
an invalid son. He looks about forty, and has
been for fifteen years confined to his room. He
says it is rheumatism, and the doctors have de-
stroyed him with strong medicines. Be that
as it may, he is a pitiful object. His limbs are
distorted and covered with knots where his
joints should be, and running sores, from which
work out pieces of bone which look like rock
or gravel. He is rotting and dying inch by
inch, and his mother hopes he may not out-
live her, for none but a mother would care for
him as she does. He is a very intelligent man,
but has grown cynical with his long suffering.
He is well versed in the Bible, as well as in
statistics and the topics of the day. He has
read much of Utah, and is better versed in her
statistics than I am. He ignores all religion,
and says that the Bible is much changed in the
last hundred years. He has an edition that is
very old—a hundred years or more—and he;
has nothing to do but compare it chapter by
chapter with tbe latest edition. He thinks the
Mormon leaders are knaves and the people
dupes in a gigantic scheme of fraud, We talk
until a late hour, and I leave him with a laugh-
ing injunction to decide whether I am the more
knave or fool.
	Paulsboro, Thursday, May 7. I had thought
to return to Williamsburg to-day, but it rains
so hard that I stay indoors. I am enjoying my
visit, and getting fat on sweet potatoes and
shad.
	Paulsboro, Friday, May 8. It rained this
morning, and I am staying another day. I re-
ceived a letter from home, sweet home! It is
the first I have heard since leaving, and I am
glad to know that all is well. In the afternoon
the weather clears up, and Henry and his
daughter take me to see the tall lighthouse. It
is made of iron, and is a hundred feet high.
We ascend the spiral staircase to the top, where
we have a fine view of the country, which looks
lovely after the beautiful rain. We go down
to the river, walking along the beach, and go
home by way of the “rifle pits.” another relic
of the revolution. He showed me where the
pits were made and entrenchments thrown up
the soldiers. The hollows are still deep,
though overgrown with trees and bushes, and
are sacredly kept for their historical interest.
We spend the evening with Mrs. Flowers.
Saturday, May 9, 1885. On board the train
for New York; weather pleasant. Sister Anna
came with me to Philadelphia. We came up
on the boat, and had four hours to wait, and
improved it by taking in the sights. We visited
what she called the new public building; it is
the largest and finest building I ever saw. It
is built of gray granite, and covers a block. It
is so high that it fairly made me dizzy looking
to the top. An arched doorway leads through
the centre from one side to the other, and car-
nages drive through. We passed through and
found ourselves in a hollow square with windows
and doors facing us in every direction. People
were passing back and forth, and stalls were
set up for selling confectionary and fancy no-
tions. From there we went to the United
States’ Mint. We sat down in a vestibule and
waited for the guide to show us through. He
came out presently with another company and

[Column 3]
invited us in, taking us through the house and
explaining the different processes of making
money. First we saw piles of bullion such as
we see shipped from the smelters; this is melted
and run into small bars, called ingots; these
are rolled in long bars, the proper thickness
for coin, and as wide as a silver dollar. This
process was done by machinery, propelled by
an engine of a hundred and fifty horse power.
There is another engine of seventy-five horse
power, which is, I think, used for standing the
coin. The strips of silver are placed in ma-
chinery which cuts out the coin; it is then taken
to another room in wheelbarrows, where it is
put in a machine which stamps it, and it comes
out money; before that it is only silver, now it
has a denominational value, and is ready for
circulation. We saw the coins of all centuries,
and almost of all ages; some of it was strange
looking money, and would be impossible to de-
scribe. We visited a life insurance building,
and called at the old “Independence Hall.”
We had not time to go through it, but
went in the portrait gallery, and in the
room where the Declaration of Independence
was signed. There were portraits of many of
the leading men of the day of both parties—
kings, queens, generals, orators and statesmen.
I would have liked more time to look at them.
The old bell was gone from its accustomed
place, having been taken to the New Orleans
Exposition.
	Anna saw me safely on the train, and as I
bade her goodbye I felt sad to think that I
might never see her any more. The country is
green now and fruit in blossom. At the rail-
road crossings there are gates to keep people
off the track; instead of swinging sideways they
are raised horizontally and bring to mind the
nursery rhyme:
	“Hoist the gates as high as the sky,
	And let King George and his men pass by.”
I stop in due time at Jersey City, and cross
the ferry to New York. Here I am beset by
cabbies, all calling, “This way, lady,” “Where
shall I take you, lady?” “Take a cab, lady.”
I tell them I want the street car; they say there
is no street car at this crossing. There is such
a crowd I am a little bewildered; they take ad-
vantage of the situation and insist on my tak-
ing a cab; I ask the fare; $3.50 and ferry; I
say no, I will find the car, for I knew there
was one. He then turned to a boy and told
him to show the lady a horse car, after
which I am beset with boys, all wanting to
carry my satchel and show me the way. They
all know I am a little “green.” I get to the
car at last, which is only a few steps after I get
clear of the crowd. I go to Grand St. ferry;
fare, five cents; cross on the boat, fare, two cents;
take another street car, five cents, making
twelve cents, which is something less than a
cab would have been. I get to my cousin’s
house without further trouble, find them well,
and pleased to see me safe back.


﻿Mrs. F. C. Floyd, of South Boston, has in-
vented a “Waterproof Bonnet,” manufactured
of rubber gossamer fabrics, for which she has
received a patent in the United States, and
has applications pending in other countries.
The material is now manufactured in many
fancy designs and in every color, making a
perfect imitation of the bonnets and hats now
worn. Its great advantage is indestructibility
by rain, the terror of ladies who wear valu-
able bonnets. They will, therefore, welcome
an article impervious to moisture,and yet hand-
some enough to wear at church, theatre, or
elsewhere, either in pleasant or stormy weather.
It is not heavy, and is very becoming. Ladies
can hereafter dispense with the annoying um-
brella, and those who have examined Mrs.
Floyd’s bonnet are very enthusiastie in its
praise.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PER PACEM AD LUCEM.

I do not ask, O Lord, that life may be
	A pleasant road;
I do not ask that Thou wouldst take from me
	Aught of its load;

I do not ask that flowers should always spring
	Beneath my feet;
I know toe well the poison and the sting
	Of things too sweet.

For one thing only, Lord, dear Lord, I plead,
	Lead me aright—
Though strength should falter and though heart should
	bleed,
Through Peace to Light.

I do not ask, O Lord, that Thou shouldst shed
	Full radiance here;
Give but a ray of peace, that I may tread
	Without a fear.

I do not ask my cross to understand,
	My way to see;
Better in darkness just to feel Thy hand
	And follow Thee.

Joy is like restless day; but peace divine
	Like quiet night;
Lead me, O Lord,—till perfect Day shall shine,
	Through Peace to Light.—Selected
							ADELAIDE PROCTOR.


ON THE DEATH OF A CHILD.

	“The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.”

Father, Mother, Sisters, Brothers,
	Weep not for the one departed,
Though his absence pleasure smothers—
	Renders you nigh broken hearted.

So like the lovely flowers bright,
	That perish by the frost, in bloom,
Your dear one passed from joyful sight
	To rest within the silent tomb.

You’ll e’er miss your darling sleeping,
	Sometimes you may yearn for him;
Behind the veil there’s joy, not weeping,
	O’er another saved from sin.

The purest spirits born on earth,
	Having, too, a high commission,
But numbered few years from their birth,
	Ere God released them from their mission.

It seems that some are born to die,
	A righteous plan to fill;
And soon return to God on high
	In glory, as they’ve done His will.

For pure in heart from evil free,
	Not worthy in this world of vice;
And Father, merciful, doth see
	’Twere best for them in paradise.

Your darling boy, now resting sweetly,
	Is better off, by far, than we;
His mission short he did completely,
	And now from sin and pain he’s free.

He dwells with beings pure and blest,
	For God above is kind and just.
Your boy is knowing sweetest rest,
	His body only goes to dust.

Though sad bereavement sorrow brings,
	The sacred Scriptures say,
	“’Tis God who giveth us all things,
	’Tis He who takes away.”

His knowledge great we cannot see,
	His plan we cannot tell;
Or else our fervent prayer would be,
	“We thank Thee, Father, all is well.”

Sometimes we ask where His wisdom can be
	In recalling the children He’s given—
“Suffer little children to come unto me,
	For of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
All is for the best, however hard
	Be life’s journey through trouble and storm;


In a mysterious way moves the Lord
	His wonderful things to perform.

May the hand of Almighty, who caused you to mourn,
	For your darling, your beautiful boy,
When the tiresome journey of life you have passed,
	Take you home to eternity’s joy.

No mortal can tell of the pleasure and bliss
	Will be known at that heavenly meeting,
When loved ones who’ve passed there with a smile and a
		kiss,
	Welcome us home as a greeting,

Not again to be parted by death’s cruel hand.
	But joyfully dwell ever more
’Mid beings divine on the golden strand,
	Of the beautiful heavenly shore.
	HARRY N. HAYES.


CHILDHOOD.

	How helpless is the poor little innocent
babe, when brought into this world of toil and
care; and how gracious in our Heavenly Father
to impart such a quantity of maternal affec-
tion to the one being upon whom the child is
so dependent.
	It knows now only what it can feel physic-
ally, mental pain being entirely unknown un-
til its mental powers are sufficiently developed
to experience a disappointment.
	The little one first shows its intelligence
through its eyes following the slowly moving
fingers, in circles, and by fastening its attention
on its approaching or departing mother. It
has not yet learned that it is in poesession of so
rare a piece of  mechanism as the human hand,
but soon it will hold that appendage up before
the examining eye, as the anatomist does his
instruments before commencing dissection.
After having found the hand, it tries to make
use of it, and immediately we find the little
round fist entering the ever open mouth,
which refuses entrance to only those objects
whose size the opening debars.
	Our observation is next drawn towards the
efforts, in learning to walk. We say,“Have
caution.” Yes, the little one is learning cau-
tion, the many lumps raised by the cruel
floor coming in contact with the soft, elastic,
muscular, processes called bone, is its natural
instructor. And how many times that those
tiny fingers get in the way of the heated stove,
papa’s foot, the door, and numerous other
objects, constructed purposely, as it were, to
inflict wounds on the unsuspecting and trusting.
In learning to talk, the most rapid progress is
noticeable. A child of four or five years is
very seldom found who cannot perfectly and
clearly express itself; and if the parents are
educated there will be found but few mistakes
in pronunciation, accent, or in language,
as the child can only do or say what it has
seen done, or heard said.
	It is at this age that evil or good will sway
the action of the future man or woman. How
pure should be all the principles taught and
the examples set for our little ones, who have
been chosen by the Lord to raise up and bear
off on their shoulders the burden of a great
and glorious work, which we now represent.
	The death of our dear President reminds us
that we will not long be able to shield our
children from the troubles of life, and while
we are here let us show our good faith by our
works.
							PROXY.


AN INTERESTING ANNUAL MEET-
			ING.
	
	The Annual meeting of Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion of the 19th Ward was held July 19th,
Prest. M. E. Irvine presiding. Present on the
the stand were Sisters E.S. Taylor, S. M. Kim
ball, M. A. Freeze, Dr. Maggie Shipp, Lil[y]


Freeze, and Coun. Player Meeting commenced
by singing “Rock of my refuge;” Prayer by
Cotin. E. Bowman. Singing, “We are sowing.”
Roll called; 50 members responded with a senti-
ment. Minutes of last annual meeting read and
approved, also financial report. The pro-
gramme began with a physiological lecture, on
the care of the body by Miss Katie Dean; it
was excellently given and very instructive.
Song, Miss Lizzie Thomas; Letters of Corres-
pondence between Misses Clara Gentry and
Emily Dean. The Manuscript Paper was then
read by Miss Dora Bowman; it contained food
for thought; Song, Miss Georgina Brown. Prest.
Irvine said that concluded the programme and
the time would now be occupied by our visi-
tors.
	Prest. M. A. Freeze said, to say I have en-
joyed the meeting would but faintly express
my feelings. You are improving and I feel
to encourage you to continue. The article in
the paper on kindness affected me deeply.
We may all profit by putting it into prac-
tice. There are many more to speak, so
I will give way praying God to bless all here,
and enable you to do right.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor said, I am more than
pleased to meet you; I have been thinking of
the many changes that have taken place since
we last  met; If you have improved spiritually
as you have mentally you have indeed gained.
Has your faith increased? Can you say that to-
day you have more faith in your Heavenly
Father than you had one year ago? Praying
God to bless and keep you and that the officers
of your meeting may have wisdom to lead you
aright and ever walk as examples worthy of
imitation is my prayer.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said, your meetings are
carried on in a very pleasing manner and I am
very much gratified to have met with you.
Pray God to bless you all. Amen.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp said, I have truly appre-
ciated your meeting, and I sincerely thank
your President for giving me an invitation.
She implored the young ladies to continue in
the good work. Spoke very highly of the
lecture which was just what was needed.
	Sister Lily Freeze spoke many good words
in her usual pleasing manner.
	Coun. Player of the 19th Ward R. S. also
made some good remarks, exhorting the girls
to be careful in the choice of companions.
	Prest. Irvine then made a few closing re-
marks. Meeting adjourned for one year.
Grace Gallagher moved that we tender a vote
of thanks to our visitors for their attendance, 
and good instructions. Carried unanimously.
Sister M. A. Freeze then moved that the visi-
tors give a vote of thanks to the members for
giving them such a treat. Singing, “Beauti-
ful Zion.” Benediction by Ella Nebeker.
	M. I.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	It is a signal of honor to be an arrow in the
Almighty’s quiver.—Macduff.
	Always learn to think and act for yourself.
Learn to say no; it will be of more service
to you than to be able to read Latin.—John-
son.
	Resolve to edge in a little reading every 
day, if it is but a single sentence; if you gain
fifteen minutes a day, it will make itself felt at
the end of the year.—H. Mann.


Mrs. John Taylor, once a bride of the White
House, has been calling on Mrs. Cleveland,
and reciting some sparkling reminiscences of
her early married life as the wife of a presi-
dent. She has five children and a beautiful
young granddaughter.


36	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST 1, 1887.


ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE DEATH OF
	PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.

	Once more the Latter-day Saints are called upon
to mourn the death of their leader—the man who
has held the keys of the Kingdom of God upon
the earth. PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR departed
this life at five minutes to eight o’clock on the
evening of Monday, July 25th, 1887, aged 78
years, 8 months and 25 days.
	In communicating this sad intelligence to the
Church, over which he has so worthily presided
for nearly ten years past, we are filled with emo-
tions too deep for utterance. A faithful, devoted
and fearless servant of God, the Church in his
death has lost its most conspicuous and experienced
leader. Steadfast to and immovable in the truth
few men have ever lived who have manifested such
integrity and such unflinching moral and physical
courage as our beloved President who has just
gone from us. He never knew the feeling of fear
connected with the work of God. But in the face
of angry mobs, and at other times when in immi-
nent danger of personal violence from those who
threatened his life, and upon occasions when the
people were menaced with public peril, he never
blanched,—his knees never trembled, his hand
never shook. Every Latter-day Saint always
knew beforehand, on occasions when firmness
and courage were needed, where PRESIDENT JOHN
TAYLOR would be found and what his tones would
be. He met every issue squarely, boldly and in a
way to call forth the admiration of all who saw
and heard him. Undaunted courage, unyielding
firmness were among his most prominent charac-
teristics, giving him distinction among men who
were distinguished for the same qualities. With
these were combined an intense love of freedom
and hatred of oppression. He was a man whom
all could trust, and throughout his life he enjoyed,
to an extent surpassed by none, the implicit confi-
dence of the Prophets Joseph, Hyrum and Brig-
ham and all the leading men and members of the
Church. The title of “Champion of liberty,”
which he received in Nauvoo, was always felt to
be most appropriate for him to bear. But it was
not only in the possession of these qualities that
PRESIDENT TAYLOR was great. His judgment
was remarkably sound and clear, and through life
he has been noted for the wisdom of his coun-
sels and teachings. His great experience made
his suggestions exceedingly valuable; for there
has scarcely been a public movement of any kind
commenced, carried on, or completed, since he
joined the Church in which he has not taken part.
But it is not necessary that we should, even if
time permitted, rehearse the events of his long
and busy life. To do so would only be to give a
greater part of the history of the Church; for
with it his biography is inseparably interwoven.
	The last time PRESIDENT TAYLOR appeared
in public was on Sunday, February 1st 1885. On
that occasion he delivered a lengthy discourse in

	[Column 2]
the Tabernacle, in Salt Lake City. Rumors had
been floating around for some time that his arrest
was contemplated. In fact, while returning from
a trip to the settlements in Arizona, he was ad-
vised in California that he was in great danger,
and it was suggested that perhaps it would be
better for him not to return to Salt Lake City. He
listened to these cautions but still resolved to take
the risk, and came back and fearlessly went about
his business for some time. But on the evening
of Sunday, February 1st, he concluded to with-
draw himself from the public performance of his
numerous and important duties. In taking this
step he did so more to preserve peace and to re-
move all possible cause and excitement, than from
any desire for personal safety. He perceived that
there was a determination on the part of men
holding official position here to raise an issue and,
if possible, involve the Latter-day Saints in seri-
ous trouble. He had not broken any law. He
knew he was innocent and that if he were arrested
and could have a fair trial, nothing could be
brought against him. He had taken every pre-
caution that a man could take under his cirum-
stances to make himself invulnerable to attack.
He was determined that, so far as he was con-
cerned he would furnish no pretext for trouble,
but would do everything in his power to prevent
the people over whom he presided from being in-
volved in difficulty.
	From that date, upwards of two years and a
half ago, when he left his home in Salt Lake City,
he had not had the opportunity of crossing
its threshold again. To home and its joys, its de-
lightful associations and its happy reunions he has
been a stranger. He has lived as an exile—a
wanderer in the land, to the development and
good government of which he has contributed so
much! While living in this condition, one of his
wives was stricken with disease, and though his
heart was torn with anguish at the thought of her
condition, and with anxiety to see her and minis-
ter to her in her deep distress, her residence was
closely watched by spies, and when she was in a
dying condition, was even searched with the hope
of entrapping him! Thus she was deprived of
the privilege of looking upon his beloved face,
and he had not even the sad consolation of wit-
nessing or taking any part in her funeral cere-
monies.
	During the two years and a half that PRESIDENT
TAYLOR has been living in this condition he has
been cut of from all the society and loving minis-
trations of his family. But though this was so hard
to bear at this time of life, he never murmured.
He was always full of courage and hope, cheering
every one with whom he was brought in contact,
and lifting his companions by his noble example,
out of despondency and discouragement. With
the same courage with which he stood by the
Prophet of God and with a walking cane parried
the guns of the mob when they vomited their
sheets of flame and messengers of death in Car-
thage Jail, he confronted the difficulties and the
trials which he had to meet when compelled to
leave his home and the society of those whom he
loved. His demeanor throughout this long ordeal
has been most admirable. Every one who has
seen him has been impressed by his equanimity
and stately bearing. Always distinguished for
his courtesy and dignity of character, at no period
of his life did he ever exhibit those traits to greater
advantage than he has during his exile. He has
never condescended even to speak evil of those
who so cruelly persecuted him.
	By the miraculous power of God PRESIDENT
TAYLOR escaped the death which the assassins
of Carthage jail designed for him. His blood was
then mingled with the blood of the martyred
Prophet and Patriarch. He has stood since then
as a living martyr for the truth. But to day he
occupies the place of a double martyr. PRESI-
DENT TAYLOR has been killed by the cruelty of offi-

	[Column 3]
cials who have, in this Territory, misrepresented
the Government of the United States. There is
no room to doubt that if he had been permitted to
enjoy the comforts of home, the ministrations of
his family, the exercise to which he had been ac-
customed, but of which he was deprived, he
might have lived for many years yet. His blood
stains the clothes of the men, who with insensate
hate have offered rewards for his arrest and have
hounded him to the grave. History will yet call
their deeds by their right names; but ONE greater
than the combined voices of all historians will yet
pronounce their dreadful sentence.
	It is now some months since PRESIDENT TAY-
LOR was attacked by disease. It came upon him
by degrees, manifesting itself in the beginning
by a swelling of the limbs for want of proper ex-
ercise. He fought disease with his characteristic
pluck and determination. He would not yield.
He would neither allow himself nor anyone else
to think that his sickness was serious. He would
not permit his family to know his real condition,
as he did not wish them to have any anxiety on
his account, and it was almost against his express
wishes they were told how sick he was. When
messages were sent by him to them, they were al-
ways of a re-assuring character. Up to the last
day or two he was able to sit in his chair, and
until quite recently he was able to assist himself
in getting in and out of bed. The strength he has
exhibited and the tenacity of life have been very
wonderful; for though so strong, he had partaken
of scarcely any nourishment for the past six weeks.
So peacefully did he pass away, and so like a babe
falling asleep that a brief period elapsed before
those who stood around his bed were sure that
his spirit had taken its flight.
	As the sad intelligence which we now communi-
cate will spread through these valleys and moun-
tains, sorrow will fill the hearts of all at hearing
of the last days of their beloved and venerable
President. We know how deep has been the sym-
pathy that has filled the hearts of the Saints for
him in his advanced years in thinking of his con-
dition and of his being compelled to live as an ex-
ile from his family and the people. The expres-
sions of esteem and love which have come to him
from all parts of the land have deeply touched
him and caused him great pleasure in thinking
how much he was beloved and how much his wel-
fare was desired by all the Saints throughout the
earth.
	His constant desire was to do everything in his
power to relieve the Latter-day Saints from the
oppressions under which they suffer. Every pul-
sation of his heart beat with a love of Zion and a
desire for her redemption. We desired, and the
desire was general, we believe, throughout the
Church—that he might live to emerge from his ex-
ile and to be once more a free man among the peo-
ple whom he loved. But this has been denied us.
He has gone to mingle with the holy and the pure,
and to quote his own eloquent words, written con-
cerning his dear friend, Joseph the Seer;

	“Beyond the reach of mobs and strife,
	He rests unharmed in endless life;
	His home's in the sky, he dwells with the Gods,
	Far from the furious rage of mobs.”

And though we have lost his presence here, this
influence will still be felt. Such men may pass
from this life to another, but the love which beats
in their hearts for righteousness and for truth can-
not die. They go to an enlarged sphere of use-
fulness. Their influence is extended and will be
more widely felt, and Zion will feel the benefit of
his labors, as it has the labors of others who have
gone before him. The work of God will roll
forth. One after another of the mighty Men—
the men who have spent their lives in the cause
of God—may pass away, but this will not affect
the purposes of our Great Creator concerning His
Latter-day work. He will raise up others, and


the work will go on increasing in power
in influence, and in all true greatness, until it
will accomplish all that God has predicted con-
cerning it.
	We feel to say to the Latter-day Saints; Be
comforted! The same God who took care of the
work when Joseph was martyred, who has watched
over and guarded and upheld it through the long
years that have since elapsed, and who has guided
its destinies since the departure of Brigham, still
watches over it and makes it the object of His
care. John has gone; but God lives. He has
founded Zion. He has given His people a testi-
mony of this. Cherish it in your heart of hearts,
and live so each day that when the end of your
mortal lives shall come, you may be counted
worthy to go where Joseph, Brigham and John
have gone, and mingle with that glorious throng
whose robes have been washed white in the blood
of the Lamb.
	This is the earnest prayer for all Saints, and for
all the honest in heart, of your unworthy servants
in Christ,

	George Q. Cannon,
	Joseph F. Smith.


37	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

“After the burden and heat of the day,
The starry calm of night;
After the rough and toilsome way,
Asleep in the robe of white.”

“The silent chamber faceth the east,
Faceth the dawn of day;
And the shining feet of our great High Priest
Shall break through the shadows gray.”
		
“The Pilgrim they laid in a large upper chamber facing
the sun-rising. The name of the chamber was
Peace.”

The death of President John Taylor has, ere
this date, been telegraphed over the world, wherever
telegraph lines extend, there is no doubt. He held
the highest position of honor and trust in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, hav-
ing succeeded Brigham Young in the Presidency
of the Church. In many respects Prest. Taylor
was a remarkable man, and one who would have
made a mark in the world undoubtedly, even if
he had not united himself with this Church, but
the Gospel gave him a name and fame, he could
not otherwise have attained, and he was satisfied.
President Taylor was of a religious nature and a
man of strong attributes and deep-seated convic
tions, through his whole life he has shown these
characteristics; fearless always in the path of
right and intensely devotional and susceptible to
truth. He inclined to literary pursuits, but al-
ways under religious influences, as all his numer-
ous writings and his poetry testify. His sacred
hymns are many of them published in the Latter-
day Saints Hymn Book and sung in the congrega-
tions of the Saints. Perhaps the most popular
of the hymns and the one the author himself de-
lighted in singing is,
	“The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer.”
The writer recollects hearing him sing it on sev-
eral occasions, the last time being at a gathering
in honor of the Prophet Joseph’s birthday anni-
versary in the 16th Ward Meeting House, Dec.
23rd, 1881; having been solicited to sing he re-
sponded cheerfully, and sang the long hymn
through, his voice ringing out clear and deep. In
his younger days he had quite a powerful voice
and was a favorite singer wherever he was known.
He had a remarkably fine voice for public speak-
ing of which he has done a very great deal in
many countries, always laboring faithfully and zeal-
ously in the interests of the Gospel, his preaching
and speaking accompanied with that power which
bears witness of the Spirit of God.

[Column 2]
	John Taylor was born in Milnthrop Westmore-
land County, England, Nov. 1, 1808, and was
educated in his native land, but came to America,
Canada, in 1832, then, a promising, ambitious, but
devout young man, a member of the Methodist
Church. His parents had emigrated there in 1830.
He become acquainted in Canada with Miss
Leonora, daughter of Capt. Cannon of the Isle of
Man, to whom he was married and settled in
Toronto. Subsequently he became a zealous ad-
vocate and rather noted preacher of the views of
progressive Methodists, a people who, like the
Campbellites in New York and Ohio, at least a num-
ber of them, seemed to be prepared for the true
Gospel when they heard the sound thereof. The
Apostle, Parley P. Pratt carried the Gospel to
them and quite a number were soon baptized
Elder Taylor went up to Kirtland in 1837, and
on the 8th of July 1838, was called through reve-
lation to the Prophet Joseph, to be one of the
Twelve Apostles and was ordained to that office
on the 19th of December of that year in Missouri,
whither he had moved during the period of the
sojourn of the Saints in that state.
	In the fall of 1839 in company with Elder W.
Woodruff, Elder J. Taylor went on a mission to
England. At the time they were both sick with
fever and ague, but nothing daunted, they perse-
vered and filled with honor and success a very im-
portant mission. Elder Taylor baptized the first
convert in Ireland, a farmer by the name of Taite.
He preached in several places in that country,
then went to Scotland, where he preached in Pais-
ley and Glasgow, then returned to England and
from there went to the Isle of Man and succeeded
in establishing a branch of the Church on that
island. Before he returned to Nauvoo, Ill., he
had traveled without purse or scrip 5,000 miles
besides his journeys in the British Isles on rail-
roads, steamboats and coaches, on foot and on horse-
back, and had never asked any one for a farthing,
and never lacked for anything.
	After his return to Nauvoo he became the edi-
tor of “The Times and Seasons” and also “The
Nauvoo Neighbor,” and was a member of the
City Council. Apostle Taylor was a bosom friend
of the Prophet Joseph and one of his right hand
men. When the Prophet and Patriarch were im-
prisoned in Carthage jail, he went with them vol-
untarily to share their imprisonment. On the eve-
ning before the martyrdom and tragedy in the
jail he sang to the Prophet one of his favorite
hymns
		“A poor wayfaring man of grief.”

	We publish in this issue on the first page, the
letter written by Elder Willard Richards from the
scene of that terrible event on the day of the oc-
currence, when those great and noble men fell
victims to the fury and rage of a cruel relentless
mob. Remembering it, as the writer does, when
the news came into Nauvoo, we cannot help call-
ing it the dark days, for it seemed that clouds of
thick black darkness overspread and enveloped
that beautiful city.
	Elder Taylor was able, with his powerful arm
aided by his cane, to strike down some of the
loaded weapons until he was severely wounded,
four bullets entering his body, another one was
warded off by his watch which stopped and marked
the moment of the fearful massacre.
	About the time of the exodus from Nauvoo
Elder Taylor went with Elders P. P. Pratt and
O. Hyde to the British Isles, to attend to business
matters pertaining to the Church, but returned to
Winter Quarters on the Missouri River in the
spring of 1847 just as the pioneers were leaving
to find a home and resting place for the Saints
somewhere in the region of the Rocky Moun-
tains.
	Elder Taylor and family left Winter Quarters on
the 19th of June, 1847, with the first company of
emigrating Saints which was organized to cross

[Column 3]
the plains to the place which the pioneers were
expected to find. The company arrived in this
valley after a tedious journey across the plains in
October. It may be truly said that John Taylor
was one of the founders of Utah.
	In 1849 he went on a mission to France and
during his absence translated the Book of Mor-
mon into French and German. In 1854 he published
“The Mormon” in New York City, a kind of jour-
nal which soon became quite a popular periodical
and was very ably edited.
	In many other honorable positions and places
civil and ecclesiastical he has shown himself an
efficient and wise counselor and leader, worthy of
the trust and confidence of the people and the
Saints of God.
	At the death of Brigham Young in connection
with the Twelve Apostles being their president
he conducted the affairs of the Church, and at the
October Conference, in 1880, the Quorum of the
First Presidency was again organized with John
Taylor as President, Prophet, Seer and Revela-
tor, with Geo. Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith as
his Counselors. Since that time he has filled
that high and holy position with great dignity and
with honor. The many trials and changes through
which the Saints have had to pass during the last
few years, have proven to the people that President
Taylor was eminently qualified for the office to
which he had been called and appointed and also
that he was equal to all occasions and circum-
stances however annoying and perplexing they
might be. He was possessdd of wonderful
equanimity and firmness of resolve, combined with
those noble qualities and endowments of heart
and mind that fitted him for the work the Lord
had given him to do. He was a man the people
might always be sure of as a leader and of whom
they might also be justly prowd.
	There is much that might be said and written of
this great and good man, who has passed away so
recently leaving the Saints over whom he presided
as a father and friend in sorrow, but they mourn
not for him without hope and consolation
for they feel assured he has joined
his comrades and companions and fellow-laborers
with whom he labored and was associated with
here, and that he is happy in their society and will,
not cease to labor there for the redemption of Zion,
and will continue in the scale of progression for-
ever and ever.
	The death of President John Taylor occurred
on the evening of July 25, 1887. He died, it is
said, like one falling asleep, without pain and
without a struggle.
	On the following day there were emblems of
mourning throughout the city. The Gardo House
was very tastefully and heavily draped, and many
of the public buildings. Flags were hung at half
mast with black streamers floating, but he in whose
honor these demonstrations were made, needed
not these outward signs; the sorrow of the peo-
ple was deep and real and many were the tears
shed for the noble martyr as the news of his de-
mise spread among the Latter-day Saints.
	The funeral services were held in the large Tab-
ernacle in this city, on Friday, July 29th, com-
mencing at 12 m. The body of the late President 
had lain in state in the Tabernacle from half past
seven a. m., until half past eleven a. m., and
several thousands of people had viewed his re-
mains.

“Weep not that his trials are over, weep not that his race
	is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work like his
	is done!
Till then let us yield in gladness, our treasures to God to
	keep	
And rejoice in the sweet assurance He giveth His loved
	ones sleep.”


38	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]﻿	
THE ZION OF THE LAST DAYS.

“Let Zion in her beauty rise,
	Her light begins to shine.
Ere long her King will rend the skies,
	Majestic and divine.”

	For Zion’s sake will I not hold my peace and
for Jerusalem’s sake I will not rest, until the
righteousness thereof go forth as brightness, and
the salvation thereof as a lamp that burneth.
Isaiah, 62 Ch. 1 vr.
	2: And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness,
and all kings thy glory; and thou shalt be called
by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord
shall name.
	3: Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the
hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand
of thy God.	
	10: Go through, go through the gates; prepare
ye the way of the people; cast up, cast up the
highway; gather out the stones; lift up a standard
for the people. 	
	11: Behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the
end of the world; say ye to the daughters of Zion
Behold thy salvation cometh; behold His reward
is with Him and His work before Him.
	12: And they shall call them the holy people. The
redeemed of the Lord: and thou shalt be called,
Sought out, A city not forsaken.”
	Zion means the pure in heart. Doctrine and
Covenants Sec. 115,4 vr. The Savior said, “For
thus shall my Church be called in the last days,
even the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.”
	5: Verily I say unto you all. Arise and shine
forth, that thy light may be a standard for the
nations.
	6: And that the gathering together upon the
land of Zion, and upon her stakes may be for a
defence, and for a refuge from the storm, and
from wrath when it shall be poured out without
mixture upon the whole earth.”
	If the people of the world could only realize
that God has set up His Kingdom on the earth
for the last time, that He has endowed His ser-
vants with power from on high to preach His Gos-
pel, and by His own voice has proclaimed the
truth of His work, which He will bring to pass,
His strange work and it shall be a marvel and a
wonder in the eyes of the nations.” And the
meek and the poor of the earth shall rejoice in the
Holy One of Israel. Not many rich will receive
the Gospel; they cannot humble themselves as a
little child to accept the offers of salvation. The
Gospel plan as offered by our Savior when He
was on the earth was on this wise “Except ye be-
come as a little child, ye cannot enter into the
Kingdom of heaven.” We must be humble and
forsake all our sins, and be born of the water and
the spirit, and enter into the newness of life.
When we comply with the Gospel requirements
we put on Christ and follow Him in the regenera-
tion. As Christ was immersed in water by John,
so must we be buried with Him in Baptism; Jesus
gave John the authority to baptise Him, and said,
“Suffer it to be so now” to fulfill all righteousness.
By His own voice He has confirmed the priest-
hood upon His Elders to preach His Gospel to
the ends of the earth.
	The Lord calls upon all men everywhere to re-
pent and accept His Gospel, as He proclaimed
it when He was on the earth.
	He has said He will establish His Zion “And
the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come
to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their
heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and
sorrow and sighing shall flee away.” Isaiah
speaks plainly of the Zion of the last days. The
people will gather to Zion and she will become
the joy of the whole earth. “And they will say, let
us not go up to Zion to battle for her inhabitants are
terrible,” and they will be the only people that will
not be at war one with another. For there will

[Column 2]
be wars and rumors of wars and every calamity
will befall the people all over the land, but if they
will give heed to the offer of salvation by our
Savior, to come unto Him through the door that
He has opened by His holy priesthood through
His servants, the Zion of these last days will be a
place of refuge and safety; for all who receive the
Gospel and are faithful to the end. We read 2nd
Thessalonians, “when the Lord shall be revealed
from heaven with His mighty angels in flaming
fire taking vengeance on them that know not God,
and that obey not the Gospel of our Lord Jesus
Christ.” We read also in 1st Thessalonians “Des-
pise not prophesying. Prove all things; hold
fast that which is good.”
	All ye persecutors who are unbelieving and doubt
the word of God, come forward and prove the
doctrine of Latter-day Saints by Scripture, and
do not reject that which will save you and seal
your happiness; be wise unto salvation, and be
numbered with the people of Zion of these last
days.
	M. A. M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, July 21st.


A HAPPY TIME.

	On Thursday, July 21st, the Primary Asso-
ciation of Sugar House Ward held an annual
meeting in the school house, Mrs. McGee pre-
siding. The exercises of the children were
varied and well rendered, and brief remarks,
encouraging to the children, were made after-
wards by Sisters Ellen C. Clawson, Camilla C.
Cobb, Lydia Ann and E. B. Wells, and also
by Sister Harriet C. Young, who was followed
by Bishop Driggs, who had, a couple of days
before, been released from the Utah Peniten-
tiary, where he had served a six mouths’ term
of imprisonment, because he would not renounce
his wives. His remarks were very interesting,
and rather touching on account of the sym-
pathy it aroused for those who are suffering
and in exile for conscience’ sake. The Bishop
gave excellent advice to the children and en-
couraged the officers by manifesting an appre-
ciation of their labors.
	One particular fact we noticed in this Prim-
ary was the equal number of boys, as it is
usually much more difficult to draw out the
boys to meetings of this kind than it is the
girls. We heartily congratulate Sister McGee
and the other officers on their success with the
Primary of Sugar House Ward. Prest. Mcl
Gee made some very appropriate remarks, and
the meeting, after singing and benediction, was
adjourned.
	After the meeting was dismissed, several
long tables were set in the hall, all assembled,
and children and grown people partook of the
bounteous repast that had been prepared for
the occasion. The supper included fruits of
several kinds, delicious ice cream and rasp-
berries. It was a very pleasant and interesting
gathering, and will no doubt be long remem-
bered by the little people.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	WELLSVILLE.
	On Saturday, the 16th of July, a district
conference was held in Wellsville, Cache Co.
There were present, Stake R. S. President, A.
Barber, Zina Young, Sister Clark and others.
The societies of Hyrum, Mendon and Wells-
ville were represented as doing well by the
officers from those places.
	The late President of Wellsville. Sister
Whiton having filled with honor her earthly
mission, has been called away to a higher sphere,
leaving her place vacant, and the Society dis-
banded. Votes of thanks and expressions of
good will were given to all the released officers

[Column 2]
who had well and faithfully worked together.
A new organization was effected, with Elizabeth
Salisbury as President; Elizabeth Maughan 
and Eliza Owen, Counselors; Sarah Owen
Maughan; Secretary; Marion Baxter, Treasurer.
A number of the brethren were present, who
gave encouragement and instruction to all,
specially requesting every member to sustain 
the new organization, giving it their confidence  
and support. Many good instructions were
given upon almost every duty of life, and our 
increasing responsibilities as wives, mothers
and women.
	E. S. CROWTHER, Ass't Sec.

	BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Eighteenth Semi-annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Bear Lake
Stake, held in St. Charles, Saturday, 10 a.m.,
July 9th, 1887, Prest. Julia P. Lindsay presid-
ing. Singing. Prayer by Elder Wm. M.	
Allred. Singing. Roll called, and minutes
and reports read and approved.	
	Prest. Lindsey made opening remarks, and 
said she had not been able to visit all the
branches of the Relief Society through the	
Stake. “It is essential for the presidents to
attend these conferences, in order to report their 
branches.”
	The following branches were then represented:
St. Charles, Coun. M. A. Virgin, Bloomington,
Prest. Sarah Greenhalgh; Paris 1st Ward,
Coun. Elizabeth Collins; Paris 2nd Ward,
Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Prest. Martha
Carlson; Liberty, Prest. Margaret Morgan;
Montpelier, Prest. Petra Hoganson; George-
town, Sister Hetty Dunn; Preston, Prest. 
Martha Dalrymple; Fish Haven, Prest. Frances
Howell; Garden City, Prest. Ann E. Cook.	
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsey was pleased the sis-
ters were endeavoring to do right; thought 
more should be donated to tabernacles; the R.
S. donations had gone in with the Bishops’ re-
ports, and the sisters had not received credit 
for it, but it would be arranged differently in
the future. Gave very valuable instructions
to the sisters, and closed, hoping that all 
might progress in the kingdom of God.	
	Coun. Elizabeth Collins made excellent re- 
marks, and finished by saying, “If we are left
without the Spirit of God, which is the spirit  
of light and intelligence, how soon we fall into 
darkness and depart from the ways of truth.
We all have trials to endure. All that can be
shaken will be shaken. We should watch
ourselves lest we yield to the powers of the
evil one.”
	Prest. Nancy E. Pugmire, of the Y. L. M.  
I. A., spoke on the importance of sending in
correct reports, and doing that which we do
in a business-like manner, and gave good in-
struction. Singing, and benediction by Elder
Hugh Findley.	
	Sunday, 2 p.m. Conference assembled. Sing- 
ing. Prayer by Prest. Geo. Osmond. Singing. 
Sacrament administered While it was being
passed the choir sang, “O God, the Eternal
Father,” etc.	
	Prest. Jane Sparks reported the Dingle
R. S.
	Prest. J. P. Lindsey expressed herself as
been much benefited and interested during con-
ference. “We should seek the Lord in humili-
ty and prayer. It is a comfort to know that
we as a band of sisters are upheld by those
who are placed over us—brethren holding the
holy priesthood. It is not because we desire to
step forward in public, but because it is our
duty to do so. The longer I live the more I 
sense the great responsibility resting upon the
mothers in Israel. It is our duty to teach our
children to pray, that when they grow to be
men and women they will be able to engage in
prayer at the family altar.” Desired that the
R. S. should do all they could toward storing


[Column 1]﻿
grain. Hoped the sisters would take a lively
interest in their organizations.
	Elder J. U. Stucki made some timely and
interesting rearks, highly endorsinig the coun-
sel of Prest. Lindsey with regard to saving
grain. Invoked the blessings of God upon all.
	Prest. James H. Hart said there had been
many interesting subjects treated upon. “There
has been a great work accomplished in gather-
ing the Saints to the land of Zion. We should
search for knowledge; a great many do not
pray enough, but rely upon their own strength
too much. The organizations with which we
are connected will last forever; tyrants will die,
and the oppressive laws will be annulled.”
Spoke of the power of God made manifest
through His servants from time to time.
Thought the time had been well spent; felt
thankful for the privilege he had enjoyed of
attending conference, and also of being gath-
ered here with the Saints of God.
	Conference was then adjourned until the
second Saturday and Sunday in January, 1888.
Singing, “The Lord Reigneth.” Benediction
by Bishop John A. Hunt.
	JULIA P. LINDSEY, Prest.,
	NANCY H. HUNT, Sec. pro tem.

	JUAB STAKE.
	The Thirty-sixth Quarterly Conference of
the Juab Stake Relief Society convened in the
Nephi Tabernacle, June 23rd, 1887, Stake
President, Mary Pitchforth presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Prest. Charles Sperry. Singing.
Minutes of previous conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Mary Pitchforth said, “Since our last
conference two of our faithful sisters have de-
parted this life—Sisters Eve S. Riches and
Ellen Leith. We should not mourn for them,
for they have done a good work, and have gone
to rest.” Spoke of the trials of the Saints, and
said, “There is a silver lining to every cloud.”
Exhorted all to diligence and faithfulness in
the performance of duty, as the Lord would
not do for us that which we could do for our-
selves. Advised mothers to study medical
works, and qualify themselves to attend their
children in case of emergency, and exercise
faith in God and their children would be re-
stored.  Prayed the Lord to bless all the
speakers, that we might have a good confer-
ence.
	Sister E. R. Udall, Prest. of the Nephi So-
ciety, reported that Society as being in good
condition; the needy were well provided for.
“In doing the Lord’s will we do unto others as
we would like to be done by in similar circum-
stances. We all expect to become old, and we
should treat the aged kindly and respectfully,
and make them comfortable.” The Society
had clothed seven persons for burial in the last
year, and she was very thankful that they were
able to assist those who needed.
	Song, by Sister E. Grace, “All together once
again.”	
	Sister Serena Aagard reported the Society
in Levan as being in good condition. “We
cannot perform our duty without making sacri-
fices. We should be one with our brethren,
and work to do all the good we can.”
	Stake Coun. A. L. Bigler had been sick, and
was not able to say much. She thanked the
Lord for His mercies and blessings, and felt to
do her duty in all things.	
	Sister S. A. Andreus sang, “The Mormon
Car.”
	Sister Hannah Kinder, from Deseret, who
formerly presided over the Juab Society, said
she felt bad when she left Juab Stake, but she
had found just as good a people in Millard
Stake as there were in Juab. “We have no
time to be idle, but must work in rearing our
children and assist others.”
	Sister Mary A. Passe spoke in tongues and

[Column 2]
gave the interpretation. It was to Sister Kinder,
and was very comforting to her.
	Sister E. Taylor reported Juab branch. There
were as good sisters in Juab as there were any-
where. They were doing all they could to as-
sist in building the Temple. They had no
 poor in their ward.
	Coun. Ann Midgley was thankful to God
for His manifestations to her and her family.
She had seen His power in her family since we
last met in conference. Prayed that we might
have power to rebuke disease and evil spirits.
	Sister Pitchforth rejoiced in the spirit of
the meeting and in the tongues given through
Sister Passe. “Let us so live that angels will
delight to surround us and inspire us all the
day long.” She referred to a discourse of
President Taylor’s in regard to politeness, “And
to be ladies and gentlemen; study the art of
politeness. Kings and queens will visit this
people, and they will have to be entertained.”
Wished the young ladies would improve in
self-culture. “This people will surely come to
the front, and women should advance side by
side with their husbands. There is no excuse
for ignorance; books are plentiful, and we
should study the best books. Mothers can
anoint their children and pray over them and
apply simple remedies, and check disease be-
fore it goes too far, and if they are not ap-
pointed unto death they will recover.”
	Patriarch J. G. Bigler said the remarks had
been encouraging and instructive. Wondered
if we were as careful as we should be in train-
ing our children and setting them a good exam-
ple? Mothers, do not let your children run the
streets at night; watch over them; teach them
the Gospel; great responsibility rests upon the
teachers who visit at the fireside.”
	Prest. Sperry said, “Our sisters thought at
one time that they could not come to the front
and speak in public, but now we see them
there, and they give advice that will benefit
old and young. It is necessary to become good
students, and prepare for events in the future.
Those who stand faithful will be likened to
gold seven times tried in the furnace. The
sisters have no voice in the government, but
there are men enough to carry the day if they
will do their duty. There is more prospect of
Utah becoming a State than there ever was be-
fore. The Lord is turning the scales in our
favor.”
	The Stake and local officers were sustained
by united vote. Singing. “O God, we raise to
Thee.” Bishop Aagard pronounced the bene-
diction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
				NEPHI.
	The afternoon of the 23rd was devoted to the
celebration of the 19th anniversary of the
Nephi Relief Society. An excellent programme
was rendered, consisting of songs, recitations,
toasts, instrumental music and short speeches.
The annual report was read, which gave much
satisfaction. It showed that the sisters appre-
ciate their calling, and are energetically labor-
ing to discharge their duties. The report shows
$694.69 received, and $672.16 disbursed.
	Wishing you abundant success in your labors,
we are,
	Your co-workers in the cause of Zion,
	MARY PITCHFORTH, Stake Prest.,
	M. E. TEASDALE, Branch Sec.

	JUAB Y. L. M. I. A.
	The Young Ladies of Juab Stake held their
quarterly conference in the Nephi meeting
house, June 24th, 1887. The meeting was pre-
sided over by Sister M. E. Teasdale, Stake
President. After the usual opening exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes of the pre-
vious conference were read and approved. A

[Column 3]
programme, previously arranged, was well exe-
cuted by the members of the several wards
throughout the Stake. This consisted of songs,
readings, recitations, organ solos, and the read-
ing of the “Young Ladies’ Manuscript Jour-
nal,” interspersed with short addresses by the
members.
	The meeting was also addressed by Sister
Mary Pitchforth, Bro. James Picton and Coun.
Charles Sperry of this Stake. Each gave ex-
cellent instruction to the young people, and
showed that these organizations were formed
for their special benefit, and encouraged them
to attend strictly to their duties in the same.
Verbal reports of the several wards were given,
showing a steady improvement of those attend-
ing the weekly meetings.
	Sister M. E. Neff, Prest. of the Nephi Asso-
ciation, tendered her resignation with regret,
on account of inability to attend to her many
duties. Her resignation was accepted, and
Miss Lizzie Schofield sustained to fill that posi-
tion.
	The Stake and local officers were then pre-
sented and sustained unanimously.
	After the close of the meeting, the officers
and members, and other invited guests, assem-
bled in the Relief Society Hall to partake of
strawberries and ice cream, prepared by the
young ladies in commemoration of the twelfth
anniversary of their organization.
	The days’ enjoyment closed with a ball in
the evening, under the auspices of the Y. L.
M. I. A.
					M. E. SCHOFIELD, Sec.


39	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OCEAN LETTER.

Atlantic Ocean,
Steam Ship “Wisconsin,”
July 9, 1887.


DEAR SISTER LULA:
	The sea does not agree with me well, but I
am blest with good, kind friends, who help me
to think of better things than my sick self; for
instance, Brother Batty has suggested that if
I would write some verses he would put music
to them, and we would have a song. The fol-
lowing are the lines I have written; my first at-
tempt at song writing:

SONG OF THE MORMON MISSIONARIES.
	JUNE, 1887.
Fifty years, just, have pass’d since the first “Mormon”
Elders
Went forth to Great Britain in these Latter-days,
Endowed with the Priesthood, inspired from heaven,
To show the fallacious and false priestcraft ways.

In June thirty-seven those brethren started—
’Twas Heber and Willard and Orson, we’re told;
Apostles sent forth to teach Faith and Repentance,
And then to Baptize, like Apostles of old.

In the same month and year the beloved Queen Victoria
Ascended the throne in youth’s fair purity;
She still holds her queenhood, beloved by her nation—
This year, eighty-seven, is her grand Jubilee.

Our company now on the way to Great Britian,
Expecting to witness the Queen's Jubilee,
In contrast to those who went at her crowning,
Lacks only a unit of fifty and three.

But our mission to-day is the same as the first one,
To preach the glad tidings of joy to mankind;
And if there should still be one honest and humble,
It will be our delight that stray sheep to find.

Let us stand firm and true to our covenants and priest-
hood,
Relying on Jesus for strength and support;
No matter how vile or untrue accusations,
May follow our message in hamlet or court.

And honor to Joseph, of God called and chosen,
To bring forth the Gospel in these Latter-days.


And send it abroad unto all tongues and nations,
	That mortals might learn of God’s holy ways.
								D. K. GREENE.
	66, Moorside Lane,
	Swinton, near Manchester, England,
	July 1st, 1887.
*	*	*	*	*	*
	Great trouble awaits the people here if it
does not rain soon. Several mills have already
stopped work for want of water, and others will
have to ere long. Everything and everybody
here are watered by reservoirs.
	All I see and learn convinces me more and
more that the Lord will cut short His work in
righteousness, and I want to help Him all I
can. I tried my lungs in the open air at a
place called Moses’ Gate. We are going to
hold an out door meeting this evening at Eccles,
about three miles from here.
	Affectionate regards to all who know and
care for me.
	Your brother, as ever,
	DANIEL K. GREENE.


40	WOMAN'S EXPONENT


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


LITERARY WORK OF MISS CLEVE
LAND.

	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland has recently
become associated with the historian, Mrs.
Martha J. Lamb, in the editorial work of the
Magazine of American History.
	Miss Cleveland has a fondness and aptitude
for this style of writing, and will, without
doubt, enter upon her work in this specific
field of literature with that freshness and zeal
that has a peculiar charm, and the earnestness
and determination that ensures success. She feels
deeply whatever she writes, and that always helps
those who read, the spirit in which one writes,
tells forcibly in the subject matter rehearsed
or discussed, and in history the manner of tell-
ing equally with the facts, impresses the reader.
We sincerely congratulate Miss Cleveland, and
feel sure that the work she has undertaken is
in good hands, and will be well done.
	Miss Cleveland’s name in the Magazine work
will be associated with that of some of the
most learned men and greatest writers of
American Literature of the age, men whose
names have been for long years familiar to the
public. It is gratifying to know that there are
women with the ability and courage to under-
take such work, and they deserve the praise
and the esteem of their contemparary country-
women.—ED.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Oberlin College held its fifty-fourth Com-
mencement this year.


﻿Nine bodies of an ancient tribe of men
have been discovered in a cave in Caton, New
York.
	A church organ constructed entirely of
paper is on exhibition at Milan. It was the
invention of a priest.
	The Queen of Roumania honored Queen
Victoria’s Jubilee by translating Victoria’s
journal into Roumanian, and publishing it in
a cheap edition.
	Princess Victoria, wife of the German Crown
Prince, presented the commencement prizes at
the Norwood School for the Blind, in London,
July 8.
	Queen Victoria has taken to carrying a
walking stick, not for vanity, but because she
needs its support. It is not like the pretty
jeweled affair which Eugenie used to manage
so gracefully in her days of pride, but a plain,
black, crutch-headed stick meant for use.
	Mrs. Hannah Stone, the oldest resident of
Worcester, Mass., who died recently, was born
at Dorchester, August 31, 1787. She married
Samuel Stone in 1805, and lived at Eden,
Vt., for the next fifteen years. She was left a
widow in 1820, with six small children. Her
descendants, to the fifth generation, are living
in Vermont.
	A man in LaFayette, Ind., was recently
granted a divorce from his wife on the ground
that she was an inveterate smoker and user
of tobacco. The Woman’s Standard thinks
that “if the wives of all men who are addicted
to its use should seek to be released from matri-
monial bonds on that account, the courts would
be in permanent session, and lawyers would be-
come immensely wealthy.”


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and 
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store, 
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to 
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


[Column 1]
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Office and Residence at the Deseret Hospital,
	Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City.

The Warm Springs car passes the Hospital, which
	can also be reached by Telephone  No. 269.

[Column 2]
﻿R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

		Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s shoes.
	112,114,116,118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1887.	No. 6.


IN MEMORY

OF OUR LATE RESPECTED LEADER
PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.

Faithful Friend of God and man!
	Who shall estimate his worth?
Ever in salvation’s van,
	Toiling for the sons of earth;
Long his labors; broad the field—
That continual harvests yield.

His, the pre-appointed lot
	Of anointed Saints and seer’s;
Here the world approved him not;
	Now he mingles with his peers,
As his life blood! heretofore
Mingled with the Prophet’s gore.

Persecution’s quenchless flames
	Proved his steadfastness of soul,
Staunch his courage, true his aims,
	As the magnet to the pole.
Lasting and illustrious fame
Hence shall wreathe, John Taylor’s name.

One of Nature’s mighty men
	Our late leader was, and more;
Called of Heaven—behold him then!
	Always at the battle fore,
Undismayed! a champion bold
For the truth, revealed of old.

Full of faith and power, like Paul,
	Lion-hearted, yet so mild;
Grand and gracious, yet, withal
	He was humble as a child;
’Tis exalting, thus to find
Such a type of human kind.

From his lips, such words of cheer
	Strengthen’d many a sinking heart,
Mem’ry holds his promise dear
	Yea! ’twas prophecy in part;
Words, that lifted hopes so bow’d
Words, that rifted sorrow's cloud.

May the peace of God attend
	All the household, ’reft and shorn;
Zion mourns a watchful friend;
	Angels hail, a chieftain born!
Heavenly hosts, a brother greet;
Friends, renew communion sweet.

Veteran in the cause of Right,
	Gone with heroes hence to dwell;
Martyr to Oppression’s might.
	Faithful, fearless Saint, farewell!
Prison stripes, nor prison bars
’Wait the just beyond the stars.
	EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF PREST.
JOHN TAYLOR.

The grief and joy that all express
While Zion dons her mourning dress
In sacred honor to her chief,
A small expression of her grief
Now weighed beneath the heavy loss
Of one, who died beneath the cross,
With sure reward and great renown
To wear a glorious martyr’s crown.
The cross he bore with double load,
Twice martyred for the truth of God;
With Joseph and the prophets now
The crown is placed upon his brow,
Where far beyond oppression’s power
He gazes back upon the hour,
That saw him to his latest breath
A soldier of the cross till death.
No ghastly feelings, dread or fear
Are seen or felt around the bier,

[Column 2]
But sweet and hallowed peace and love,
Like dew descending from above.
And with devoted hearts we pay
The tribute, last of all, to-day
From loving eyes our tears are shed
In reverence to the honored dead—
The death that’s brought us silent grief
Has also brought us sweet relief.
While casting forth our eyes abroad,
In this we see the hand of God;
He's taken from the evil hour,
And also from the tyrants’ power.

The faithful shall rejoice to know
That he has gone to rest,
And left the persecuting foe, 
Which now afflicts the West;
But mourn to lose a leading mind
So noble and so great,
As in this holy house we find
Laid out to-day in state.
He tread the goodly path on earth, 
Which leads to heaven and God,
And from his pure, inspiring breath
Salvation’s language flowed. 
He now has reached the glory-goal
Of freedom, peate and love,
Where bigots can’t oppress the soul
That graces courts above.
In solid comfort, peace and rest,
This lovely summer morn’,
He smiles upon his foolish foes;
While laughing them to scorn,
He’s taken from the wrath to come,
Though men perceive it not, 
And from the weary prison gloom
And foul assassin’s plot.
He loved the Prophet Joseph well,
With him be met the balls
That pierced him once wilh shot and shell.
While filling duties’ calls,
Wilh him he’d fight, or bravely die
In Zions glorious cause;  
For though the murderer’s hand was nigh 
’Twas God and heaven’s laws
That still inspired the hero’s soul,
ln all his acts below;
When to the prison Carthage Jail
With Joseph he would go.
Composed in sweet and silent rest
We see the noble form,
That bound a spirit truly blest, 
Now soaring o’er the the storm;
That foul oppressors sought to wage
Against the son of God,
Who, free from persecution’s rage,
Has reached his grand abode—
With Joseph and with Brigham there
His counsels soon will tell. 
For power and knowledge everywhere
Shall strike the sounding swell,
And Zion’s children shall rejoice
Beneath the power of God;
For he will advocate their cane
To break the tyrant’s rod;
His dignified and manly voice
Will move the heavens above,
To save the people of his choice,
Who truth and virtue love.

No time nor talent will he spare
To plead the cause of Zion there,
Her cause will occupy his mind,
Until he sees her freedom signed.
	JANETTE PATON.


A love of flowers is love of the beautiful; a
love of the beautiful is a love of the good.—
S. Robinson.


LADY MACBETH AND OPHELIA.

	"The mind can make
Substance, and people planets of its own
With beings brighter than have been, and give
A breath to forms which can outlive all flesh."

	We are led to appreciate and comprehend
this power through no other works so much
as in those of the immortal Shakspeare. Has
he not created for us worlds and worlds of
thought? has he not discovered to us the
causes and effects of action? has he not given
us a more perfect conception of life than we
could form from merely observing life itself?
	Indeed, Shakspeare's perception is so vivid,
and his glance so comprehensive, that he can
search out the nature of all things and dis-
cover the relations of objects.
	It seems that the basis of every science can
be deduced from his writings; for this reason,
some intelligent investigators have been led to
believe that no one man could be the author
of them all; but the knowledge displayed in
his productions was so much in advance of the
age, that we know it was the effect of nothing
less than poetical inspiration.
	Shakspeare's knowledge of the human heart
land mind is so accurate that, under any cir-
cumstances, whether in health or disease, he 
never makes a mistake.
	He has perhaps never moulded a character
more ambitious, more powerful, more bloody
than Lady Macbeth; nor a character more
pure, more guileless, more gentle, than Ophe-
lia: yet, when we analyze and study the
characteristics of both, though radically dif-
ferent, we find they are essentially feminine.
Let us make a brief study of each, and by
comparison, discover traits and qualities that
otherwise would not appear.
	Lady Macbeth comes before us a beautiful
and attractive woman, with a form of delicate
and truly feminine mould, and with features
finely chizeled. She has just received a letter
from Macbeth, her husband, which conveys the
great news of the witches prophecy—that Mac-
beth should receive titles and would at length
become king. A shudder passes over us as we
gaze on that face and hear her exclamation—

"Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shall be
What thou art promis'd."

	There is a purpose in her tone which por-
tends bloody business. She determines to sweep
away "All that impedes him from the golden
round." While this resolution yet fires her
thoughts, a messenger announces that Duncan,
the king, will be her guest that very night. At
once she feels that uow is the time for action.
	Lady Macbeth is afraid, lest her conscience
will interfere with her base designs; so she calls
the spirits—"that tend on mortal thought," to
unsex her and fill her with "direst cruelty" and
stop up the access to remorse.
	Macbeth arrives now, and Lady Macbeth
begins her task of planning for the murder.
For the night's great business she had chosen
to take in her own dispatch. She had at once
to play the gracious hostess to the king, and
keep Macbeth to the dire task of assassinating
him,—for Macbeth was a moral coward, and
as the fatal hour approached, his courage
failed, and in this state of irresolution Lady
Macbeth found him. In vain does he protest
that he cannot murder the king, his kinsman
guest; in vain does he plead danger of discov-
ery; her final appeal, "From this time, such do


[Column 1]

I account thy love," inspired the faltering
Macbeth with the determination to do all that
he had sworn to do.
	She made very easy work for Macbeth by
drugging the attendants; and, indeed, would
have herself dispatched Duncan: but, true to
her fears, her conscience rushes on her un-
awares and for the moment triumphs—her
hand is restrained by the king's resemblance
to her father; she does not, however, hesitate in
spurring on Macbeth to his damnation
	The murder committed, he is seized with in-
finite terror and remorse, while the latter is
beginning to find its way to Lady Macbeth's
heart; nevertheless, she summons enough will
and strength to carry the daggers Macbeth
had brought in his confusion, back to the
chamber where Duncan lies slain; then, after
smearing the grooms with blood, she returns to
exclaim:

"My hands are of your color; but I shame
To wear a heart so white."

	The knocking at the gates has already be-
gun, and though it sends Macbeth nearly mad,
his wife does not waver a moment: she almost
drags him from where he stands transfixed.
	It is in this scene where Lady Macbeth dis- 
plays her superhuman will,—she seems to crush
everything that comes in her way; she ascends
to the topmost tower of her strength: the effort
was too great, and she soon gives way, but not
before she again exercises great will-power in
the banquet scene, when she seeks to bring
Macbeth to his healthy mind, as the apparition
of Banquo rises before him; she also endeavors
to give proper explanations of his wild actions
to the company, but finding him growing
wilder, and her own strength failing, she gra-
ciously dismisses the company. Though she
had uttered the most cutting sarcasm to her
husband, to recall his better wisdom, she says
not a word of reproach when they are left
alone—there is something touching in this si-
lence: she loves her husband, and her ambition
has ever been for him, more than herself; she
could not have done all she did with purely
selfish motives.
	She is not haunted by ghosts or terrified by
air-drawn daggers as Macbeth is, for during
her waking moments, all within her heart is
concealed—but she is troubled with "Thick
coming fancies, that keep her from her rest."
A somnambulist, haunting the house like a
spectre, "with eyes open to external things,
but with sense shut," she sees the spots of blood
on her hands and seeks to wash them away.
Alas! a little water might wash the filthy wit-
ness from her hand, but it cannot wipe out the
remembrance of it, nor will "all the perfumes
of Arabia" sweeten that little hand!
	Ophelia, the fair-haired daughter of the
north, arouses all our sympathies and we love
her for her untainted purity of heart. She is
very young and her mind not developed. We
first behold her when she is bidding farewell to
her brother, Laertes,—there is an expression of
sadness on her face which clings there. Laertes
thinks it his duty to warn Ophelia against the
"importunities of Lord Hamlet," tells her to
think them

"Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting
The perfume and suppliance of a minute: no more!"

	Ophelia replies half unconsciously, "No
more, but so." She believes in the sincerity of
her lover, but promises to keep her brother's
counsel as "watchman to her heart."
	She replies to her father's questioning on the
same subject, that Hamlet had given her many
tenders of his affection in honorable fashion.
Polonius perplexes and wounds her by his
harsh language, but she receives it with quiet
submission; and upon his commanding her to
give no more words with Lord Hamlet, she re-
plies, "I shall obey, my Lord."
	The anguish this cost her was known only to 
herself.

[Column 2]

	Hamlet's repulsion was the cause of his
rushing in her presence, wild in his attire, but,
with a look so piteous that is smote her heart,
she goes to her father to aquaint him with her
fears, that Hamlet was mad for her love. With
this news, Polonius is pleased; his resentment
disappears, and he hastens to inform the king
and queen. The plan is then made for Ophelia
to meet Hamlet and offer to return his remem-
brances, the scene is to be viewed from a place
of concealment by Polonius and the king, 
where they await in joyful expectation of dis-
covering that the sequel of Hamlet's madness,
is his love for Ophelia. But Hamlet heaps up-
on Ophelia's head invectives, and accuses her
of deceit. tells her he did love her once, and
upon her replying, "Indeed, my Lord, you
made me believe so," he continues, "You
should not have believed it. I loved you not."
In this scene he lacerates her heart unmerci-
fully. Ophelia scarcely replies to his cutting
remarks, but when he has gone out from her
presence, she utters a heart-broken cry:

"Oh, woe is me, 
To see what I have seen, see what I see!"

	We next see Ophelia at the play in com-
pany with the King, Queen and Court, here
she is for once happy; Hamlet reclines at her
feet, and utters not a word of scorn or re-
proach. This is the last time Hamlet is per-
mitted to behold Ophelia. On that very night,
he fatally stabs Polonius, Ophelia's father, mis-
taking him for the king.
	Poor Ophelia! her brother in a foreign land,
her father slain, and by the idol of her heart—
who was left to support and console her now?
Her already wounded spirit was crushed by
this blow, and her fine and sensitive intellect
completely dethroned by the horror and grief
of the situation.
	She appears before us now, the "queen of a
fantastic realm;" her thoughts are combina-
tions of disjointed things," but unmerciful fate
is not yet satisfied: Ophelia is destined to live
on yet a little longer.

	"The ruined wall stands
When the windworn battlements are gone,
The bars survive the captive they enthrall;
The day drags through, though storms keep out the sun,
And thus the heart will break, yet brokenly live on."

	Ophelia and Lady Macbeth, as productions
of Shakspeare, are equally great in their sep-
arate spheres, though nearly three centuries
have passed away since they were created by
an inspired pen, yet, they continue to shine in
the universe of literary characters as stars of
the first magnitude.
	From the study of these two characters we
get a knowledge of the capabilities, powers and
also the limits of the mind.
	We cannot conceive of two characters more
unlike. Lady Macbeth! what a feeling of ab-
horence strangely mingled with awe and pity
is awakened by the very name, abhorence for
her wickedly ambitious deeds, awe for her
superhuman will, and pity, for her mind shat-
tered by the shocks of many crimes. Ophelia,
on the contrary, excites our love for her sweet-
ness, our admiration for her sincerity and our
sorrow for her self-sacrifice.
	Before we judge Lady Macbeth too harshly
let us remember that the moral tendency of her
age was bad, in that ambition, an element of
life most necessary when kept within healthy
bounds, was carried to excess; her perverted
nature was to a greater or less extent the effect
of it.
	Ophelia was brought up in the strictest se-
clusion from society and only the better part
of her nature was cultivated. She was ignor-
ant of evil, and this at times is the cause of
her seeming weakmindedness.
	The chief element of Lady Macbeth's char-
acter is ambition; she wishes Macbeth to be
king and herself his queen, yet, when this is
finally accomplished, she says "nought's had,

[Column 3]

all's spent," she feels that she has gained
nothing, yet sacrificed all. Lady Macbeth had
wonderful will power, which enabled her to set
aside all scruples in gaining the object of her
ambition. This power was the result of nerv-
ous excitement. Thus, after the murder of
Duncan, we find her rapidly failing. Had she
gone on with Macbeth and taken an active part
in the murders he committed, subsequently
she could have perhaps retained this power,
but we never hear of her in connection with
wicked deeds again, though the heart-broken
reference she makes in the sleep walking scene
to the Thane of Fifes wife, is evidence that she
is informed of Macbeth's actions. She has
nothing left but to brood over the fresh crimes
of her husband as well as her own past ones,
and having lost her will through inactivity the
veil drops from her conscience she had so rudely
covered, and bares it to the view of her mind.
Ophelia cared not for the title queen (though
the chance of her obtaining it was perhaps
greater than for Lady Macbeth). Ophelia
loved Lord Hamlet with all the power of her
heart, yet sacrificed her feelings uncomplain-
ingly at her father's command—filial obedience
usurped ambition's place, Ophelia's powers
were not developed, yet we realize it required
a great amount of will to execute her father's
commands in regard to Lord Hamlet. She
exercised a quiet firmness and did not waver a
moment from the course she believed to be
right, her will was excited and dictated by
purely conscientious scruples. Lady Macbeth
is a moving power of action, Ophelia is carried
on with the currents of human events.
	The former has keen perceptive faculties, she
reads the minds of others, she suspects people.
She is quick to decide, having fixed on a line
of action, she follows it up, letting nothing in-
terfere with her progress. The latter, herself
pure, fancies the motives of others above sus-
picion, she is left very little to decide for her-
self. All her actions are a natural result of
what precedes. While Lady Macbeth creates
opportunities, Ophelia is wholly governed by
those already in existence. Lady Macbeth, in-
stead of trying to curb evil thoughts, courts
them, and steels her heart against the influence
of good. She appears to have no belief in the
existence of a power greater than the mind.
Evil seems to fear Ophelia, she has a firm be-
lief in Sweet Heaven and in Heavenly Powers.
	Lady Macbeth took her own life to escape
the terrible rack of an abused conscience.
Ophelia was unwittingly the cause of her own
death, a victim to circumstances produced by
others.
	Lady Macbeth comes before us for the last
time and, as we gaze on her face, we realize
that bad, unscrupulous and powerful as she had
been, her heart is broken and bleeding, her
conscienee is sorely awakened and she is under-
going the severest pangs of remorse. No longer
she stands before us a thing of almost super-
human will-power, but a creature of abject
helplessness. She steals away and we know it
is with the terrible guilt unwashed from her
soul. There is no chance of forgiveness for her,
yet the retribution is just We think of her
now with eyes all moistened with tears, but our
hearts are heavy, we sigh for her and our lips
are mute.
	Although insanity is considered the most dire
calamity, yet it comes like a ministering angel
to relieve Ophelia's soul, for while she sojourns
here she does not suffer that poignant grief that
would have forever been with her.
	Farewell, Ophelia, you have passed from this
life with those wild, sad songs on your lips
you have suffered much. Unused as you were
to care and troubles your heart was broken
and your mind was shattered by the wicked
acts of others. We would with the Queen have
joyed to see you the wife of your love, Hamlet,
but that being made impossible, we feel a sort


of calmness in putting you away from the sor-
rows of this life. Had you committed deeds of
sin we would feel a greater anguish, but we
part from you with the knowledge that you
passed away pure, lovely and divine.
	ALICE SMITH MERRILL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OUR TWENTY-FOURTH.

July has given to us two days to be
Remembered with deep love and joy
And gratitude by all true hearts;
The first, this mighty Nation's natal day,
The glorious Fourth, which millions
Join to celebrate, and sing the songs of Liberty.

	The other day is ours alone,
The Day when first a band of weary,
Footsore Pilgrim pioneers were gladdened
By the sight of Utah's vales, the chambers
Of the Mountains of the Lord—
Forty long years ago, our own dear
Twenty-fourth!

	'Tis well to-day to backward
Gaze, and trace the links in the
Great chain that leads us to the
Present. The Theme is wide, and
Deep, and vast, and we can only
Point you to a few, but you can
Read from out that mighty book.
That holds the Past, the Present and
The Future. And it were well for all
To read and study faithfully.

	In a deep forest. 'neath the blue
Vault of heaven, behold on bended
Knee a boy, fair haired and young,
With hand uplifted pleading unto
God, to know the better way,
Even the way of life eternal, out
Of the mists and darkness that
O'erspread the land.
'Twas thus he prayed: "Father, Thou
Hast said, 'If any lack for wisdom
Let him ask of me who giveth liberally
And upbraideth not, and it shall be
Given him.' I crave that promise now."
The answer came; two heavenly
Beings stood before him, and
God the Father, poining to the Son,
Said, "Hear ye Him."
	
	Then was a heavenly vision opened
To his view, the path he sought made plan.

	Again behold a little band still
In the forest wilds, met to reorganize
Christ's Church on earth. See how
From there the word of God went forth
Unto the starving multitudes, famishing
For the pure bread of life. Read from
The pages of this past, how the spirit of
Elijah rested upon them and as an
Eagle's wings they came flocking from
Afar, to listen to the Prophet's voice,
A Prophet taught of God, the Father, and
The Son, of Peter, James and John, Moroni
And Elijah, What wonder that his
Words more precious were than gold—
That rapidly he grew in wisdom and in
Knowledge far, far beyond his years.

	Behold, as fruit of Gospel seed, fair towns
And cities into being spring as if by magic,
And love and joy and deep thanksgiving
Dwell therein. And still the work
Rolls on, although each step has been
Opposed by Satan's hosts, and loud,
Deep threats of violence we heard,
And mobs arose driving the Saints from
Lands their sires had died to gain.

	But hark! what means that bitter wail of
Anguish, that sudden thrill of pain
That makes the stoutest heart stand
Still? And as did Jesus cry, "My God,
My God, hast thou forsaken us!"
Turn thou to Carthage Jail and then
Behold our Patriarch and Prophet slain;
Sealing their testimony with their blood.
Did the great work die with them? No!

[Column 2]

The Gospel truths they taught found 
Place in many hearts, the Twelve
Stepped forth to bear the Kingdom on,
With Joseph's mantle resting on our
Brigham Young.

	Nauvoo, Queen of the West, had
Reared her temple grand, and there
More Keys and powers were given—
While smiling plenty filled the land,
And still the work rolls on.
Again there comes a cry from baffled
Foemen, who had said if we but
Slay the Leaders, then the work will cease.
Listen now unto the Mandate, oh ye
Heavens and spirits of our Pilgrim fathers:
"Deny your God! Go out into the wilderness or die,
For we will wipe you out with sword and fire!"
Did they then falter? No, for Brigham's 
Voice was heard, "Unto your tents, oh
Israel, we'll seek that home
'Mid the rocky wilds, and savage tribes
Denied us here in free
America."
Swiftly they turn them from their
Happy homes; and even now the foe rush
In impatience for the prey—
Now from afar they turn to take a
Last long look—when from the Temple
Dome burst forth fierce fire and smoke
Ascending up to heaven; and stricken
Do they gaze on this another sacrifice.
We cannot follow in their footsteps over
The trackless deserts, nor pause beside the
Graves of those laid down to rest by the
Lone wayside. They found the Heaven
Sought, their feet were firmly planted
There, the desert places changed to
Smiling fields of grain, of fruits and flowers.
Far to the East to West the North and South,
Thousands have borne to nations far
The Gospel truths, and thousands have
Been added to the Fold.

	This is the fortieth year for Zion
In the wilderness. Mark it, ye wise
Men of the Nation; think of the
Doom of Pharaoh and his hosts who
Dared to fight against Jehovah's
Power, and wisdom learn, that
Ye may save this nation from a
Fate as dark as that which humbled
In the dust proud Egypt
And her Kings.
Think of it, ye Saints, for it is
Near the time when Israel
Will be numbered, and Christ
Will claim his own, the
Pure in heart.		HOPE.


[Column 1]

LETTER FROM SANDWICH ISLANDS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Lord has said He remembereth the isles
of the sea, and while we find great consolation
in His words, we do not wish to be forgotten
by our co-laborers in Zion, who are probably
not aware of the good work being done by the
native sisters of these islands. Hoping, there-
fore, that a few items in regard to the Relief
Society of this mission may be of interest to
your many readers, I subscribe the following,
trusting that you will bear in mind the char-
acter and class of people among whom we la-
bor.
	On this island, Oahu, there are four large
branches of the Relief Society, among whom I
have been laboring since our last April Con-
ference, endeavoring, as much as my know-
ledge of the language would permit, to ex-
hort them to obedience in observing the coun-
sel given by the servants of the Lord, and in
becoming live laborers in the building up of
His Kingdom here upon the earth. They are
an excitable people, and can be easily stirred
to life and energy, and just as soon sink into
indolence and evil if left to themselves. Since
our conference the four Societies of this island
have donated $124 for the Temple, mission

[Column 2]

fund, tithing, and the erecting of a new taber-
nacle in the Capital city, Honolulu; and more
will be received before our next conference.
	On the 18th of last month we held a joint
meeting at this place, a goodly number from
other branches being present, to report their
labors and receive instructions from the ser-
vants of God. To show with what interest
and faith they gathered to the meeting, I have
but to say that some of the old sisters, who
were not supplied with horses, walked nearly
all the way from Honolulu to the place, a dis-
tance of 32 miles. Yet they felt to rejoice in
traveling in the interest of the work of God.
In order to extend the work of exhortation to
all the branches of the Society on the other
islands, we sent out missionary sisters to per-
form that labor. After the close of the meet-
ing we invited the officers of this Society, the
visitors and the old sisters to take supper at
the mission house in haole (white) style. It
propably being the first supper of the kind
that many of them had ever attended; it called
forth much gratitude on their part and much
amusement on ours, as I presume it was the
first time that some of them had ever tried to
eat with a knife and fork. Spread before them
on the large dining room table of the mission
house, was a young boiled pig, a large roast of
beef, soup, Dutch cheese, buns, fried cakes,
pies, and white and brown bread. There was
no poi, their staff of life, as at present there is
a famine for that article. Had this been spread
on a mat on the floor, with no knives and forks,
leaving the fingers to convey both meat and
soup to the mouth, all would have felt at home,
but seated around a table and supplied with
the necessary implements of a feast, placed
many of them in an awkward position, and
when our attention was drawn away, many a
finger slipped into the meat and soup dishes,
and many a fried cake was concealed in the
pocket, to provide for future need, this being
an ancient custom of the natives. After sup-
per they returned with new energy for the
work of the Lord, and "full of good spirit,"
as they say.
	On the 9th inst., a Hawaiian feast was given
in celebration of the organization of this So-
ciety, in which a good time was enjoyed. A
liberal donation followed the meeting, but I will
forbear lengthening my letter at present. The
Societies are at present in a lively condition,
and are doing as good as can be expected of
them. The Hawaiian sisters have good ability
in many things. Their making of quilts, straw
hats, mats, etc., is very praiseworthy. We are
striving to fulfill our mission honorably here
among this people, and to this end put our de-
pendence in our Heavenly Father, and we trust
the prayers of our sisters in Zion will avail us
much, while we are all laboring to the same
great and grand end.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		LIBBIE NOALL.
Laie, Oahu, July 15, 1887.


Learn from the earliest days to inure your
principles against the perils of ridicule; you
can no more exercise your reason if you live
in the constant dread of laughter than you
can enjoy your life if yon are in constant ter-
ror of death.
	The first step in debt is like the first step in
falsehood, almost involving the necessity of
proceeding in the same course, debt following
debt as lie follows lie. Hayden, the painter,
dated his decline from the day on which he
first borrowed money.—Samuel Smiles.
	Education should be regarded as capital in-
vested for the future, from which a profit may
be derived in subsequent life. It pays an an-
nual income without expense for insurance, re-
pairs or taxes. A good education is a more
lasting resource than riches.—Horace Mann.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, S3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 15, 1887.


[Column 1]

FUNERAL SERVICES.

	The funeral of President Taylor was held in the
Tabernacle in this city, on Friday July 29th, com-
mencing at 12 m. There was an immense congre-
gation, and hundreds outside were unable to ob-
tain seats, and many stood during the services.
The casket containing the body was placed in front
of the stand in an elevated position, so that it
could be seen by the multitudes assembled on the
solemn occasion. The coffin was of Utah pine
and highly polished. It was ornamented with
silver trimmings and inscribed on the breastplate:

PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.
		DIED JULY 25, 1887.
	Aged 78 years, 8 months and 24 days.
The footplate was engraved:
HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
REST IN	PEACE.
	The Tabernacle was tastefully draped in black
in honor of the illustrious dead, heavy black crape
being used for the organ and stands. In front of
the organ was an excellent steel-engraving of the
late President. Choice and lovely flowers were
arranged in vases and bouquets upon the stands,
and on the Sacrament table in the centre was a
large and elegant shield of flowers with the in-
scription CHAMPION OF LIBERTY in colors
contrasting harmoniously with the whole. It was
indeed a beautiful peace of artistic flower weaving.
A large sheaf of wheat fully ripe was near with
the appropriate words,
WELL DONE, GOOD AND FAITHFUL SERVANT.
	The stand of the First Presidency was unoc-
cupied. In the next were seated Lorenzo Snow,
Franklin D. Richards and Heber J. Grant, of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and Counselor
D. H. Wells, Patriarch John Smith, and Prest. A.
M. Cannon, of the Salt Lake Stake, also Patri-
archs Lorenzo D. Young and Joseph B. Noble.
On the third stand of the Seven Presidents of
Seventies were Jacob Gates, Horace S. Eldredge,
Seymour B. Young and Abram H. Cannon. The
members of Prest. Taylor's family occupied the
seats immediately in front of the stand. Prest.
Angus M. Cannon conducted the services, first
reading the following letter of Prest. Taylor's, giv-
ing instructions regarding the manner in which
his funeral should be conducted:
	Salt Lake City,
		November 17th, 1873.
President B. Young:
	DEAR BROTHER—Being asked to give a writ-
ten account of the way I wish to be buried, I
present the following:
	I have no desire for any particular formula; but
I should wish my body to be washed clean; to be
clothed in clean white linen garments and robes,
with shoes, apron, cap. etc., to be laid in a coffin
sufficiently large to contain my body without pres-
sure.
	Should I die here, let me be buried in my own
lot in the graveyard. Let the coffin be neat and
comely, but plain and strong; made of cedar, or
redwood, or of our own mountain pine; if of the
latter, colored or stained, and placed in an outer
strong box, with a light cotton or woolen mattress
or bed, and convenient pillow for the head.

[Column 2]

	The services, such as prevail at the time among
the Saints. A plain slab may be placed over the
body, and a stone at the head and feet; on the
headstone to be given an account of my name, age
and birth, as shall suit the feelings of my family.
	Should I die in Jackson County, Mo., let the
above directions be carried out as far as practic-
able.	Respectfully, your brother,
			JOHN TAYLOR.
	The first hymn sung, was the one entitled, "The
Resurrection Day," the congregation joining with
the choir in singing, the solemn peal of the organ
together with the subdued voices filled the large
building with a sublime and subdued melody.
Prayer was offered by Bishop Millen Atwood.
The choir sang,
"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone;"
	The first speaker was Apostle Lorenzo Snow,
who in his opening remarks quoted from St. Paul's
Epistle to Timothy:
	For I am now ready to be offered, and the time
of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good
fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the
faith.
	His remarks were tender and comforting, and it
was noticable that he felt keenly the tie that had
been broken; and that the bereavement was deep-
ly felt by the brethren who had been so closely
associated with the one now departed.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards in his address
reviewed some portions of the life and labors of
Pres. Taylor, expressing great interest and sin-
cere affection, and alluded in glowing terms to his
gifts and talents as a speaker, an author and a
leader, and exhorted the young, and especially his
sons and daughters, to imitate his noble and wise
examples and give heed to his instructions.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant made brief but eloquent
remarks, and also exhorted the sons and daught-
ers of Pres. Taylor to imitate his example and be
as courageous in advocating and defending the
cause of God as their father had been, that they
might meet him again and live with him eternally.
	President D. H. Wells said he agreed with the
Psalmist, who had said, "I shall be satisfied when
I arise in His likeness." He referred to the light
and redemption brought into the world through
the Lord Jesus Christ, for the benefit of the whole
human family; spoke of the illustrious character
and example of Pres. Taylor and his unflinching
integrity to the truth, and exhorted his family, his
brethren, and all Israel to do likewise.
	President A. O. Smoot said he had been ac-
quainted with Pres. Taylor nearly forty nine
years, knew him first as a distinguished and suc-
cessful missionary, then in the troubles of Mis-
souri as an Apostle of Jesus Christ, afterwards as
a journalist and an editor, always faithful, always
unflinching; never under any circumstances mur-
muring or complaining. Like the other brethren
who preceded him he also said he had come to
mourn with those who mourned, and yet, in real-
ity, there was occasion to rejoice as well as mourn.
	Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young followed with a
few consoling words, evidently much affected.
	Patriarch Joseph Bates Noble made some ex-
cellent remarks, referring back to the early days
and experiences in the Church.
	President Angus M. Cannon delivered the clos-
ing address, describing graphically his view of
the reception given to President Taylor, when
the portals of heaven opened and he met with his
co-laborers who had gone before him, Joseph,
Hyrum, Joseph, the Patriarch, and father of the
Prophet, Don Carlos, Samuel, Heber, Brigham,
Willard, David Patten, Jedediah, George A. and
others. His love and affection for his uncle was
vividly portrayed in choice and expressive lan-
guage, and he earnestly exhorted the Church to
faith, righteousness and good works.
	The choir rendered the anthem,
		"Jerusalem, my glorious home."
	Patriarch John Smith closed the solemn servi-
ces with prayer.

[Column 3]

	The funeral cortege then formed and proceeded
to the cemetary. The pall bearers were twelve
sons of the President. Six bands of music played
alternately during the time the procession wended
its way to the last resting place of the deceased.
At the grave a selected choir sang that glorious
hymn,
"O my Father, thou that dwellest."
	The grave and surrounding ground was dedi-
cated in prayer by Elder Richard Ballantyne.
This concluded the impressive ceremonies of the
day. A remarkable quiet and a feeling of awe
prevailed throughout all the exercises, and the
manifestations of love, respect and esteem from
the assembled multitudes, told plainly how Zion
mourned her honored chieftain and leader.


A POPULAR IGNIS-FATUUS.

	Moderu Christianity is exceedingly popular, and
the reason is that it promises everybody a com-
plete salvation both in this life and that which is
to come, for absolutely no exertion nor sacrifice
on their part, only a mere profession of faith or
belief in Christ. No wonder it is popular. A
natural propensity in the human family for obtain-
ing the greatest amount for the least possible out-
lay, is a notable fact; and how remarkably well
does so easy a way of securing the greatest boon
which poor, fallen humanity is offered, chime in
with this common tendency! and were it true, so
general would it be in its applicarion, that the very
devils would be saved even against their will, for
do they not believe that Jesus is the Christ? Yet,
however lovely, and grand, and beautiful it may
appear, it is contrary to the teachings of the Great
Author of salvation, and also to the whole tenor
of the New Testament writings.
	True, it is said that whosoever believes on the
Lord Jesus Christ shall be saved. But what con-
stitutes belief or faith in Christ is the all import-
ant question. James unequivocally states that
faith without works is dead, and scorns the idea
of works being separate from faith. To those who
consider works an obnoxious adjunct, we enquire,
what does James mean by asking: "What doth
it profit if a man say he hath faith and have no
works? Can faith save him?" He distinctly means
to inform them that faith and works are insepar-
able, and in a sense interchangeable terms. Again
he says: "Show me thy faith without thy works,
and I will show thee my faith by my works," in-
dicating that he who had no works had no faith,
and consequently could not be saved. It is "by
works that a man is justified, and not by faith
only; for as the body without the spirit is dead, so
faith without works is dead;" and how much dead
faith it takes to save anybody, James does not
condescend to say.
	Strange it is, that people should have such
aversion to "working out their salvation with fear
and trembling;" and stranger still that they should
claim to be saved merely because Christ died on
Calvary. Did not the Savior explicitly say: "Ex-
cept ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish;" "ex-
cept a man be born of water and of the spirit, he
cannot enter the Kingdom of God;" and "he that
endures to the end, the same shall be saved?" Of
what avail then is belief alone? Refuge is taken
behind the unscriptural assertion that by Christ's
death man’s eternal salvation was finished; and
that if we even think of doing anything, to secure
it, we rob Jesus of His glory. According to
James the fallacy of this is transparent. Why
should Paul, the great Apostle of faith, have need
to fear lest he should become a castaway? Why
should he need to work out his own salvation with
fear and trembling, if he believed it secured and
wrought out already? What an amount of labor
and anxiety would have been spared him, had he
lived in this "enlightened age," "this age of pro-
gressive theology!" No need of baptism, no need


of laying on of hands, no need of doing anything
—Christ did all. Why if that be true, what need
for preaching? It matters not whether we believe
or not, nothing can alter the grand result of His
crucifixion, that is, if by exclaiming, when giving
up the ghost, "It is finished," Christ meant that
there and then, unconditionally, we were saved
with an eternal salvation. With equal propriety
(or impropriety) we might infer that when, prior to
His betrayal, He prayed to the Father, saying: "I
have glorified thee on the earth; I have finished
the work which thou hast given me to do," man's
salvation was then accomplished.
	The Son of God came to seek and to save the
lost; and while there are sinners willing to repent,
Christ's work is not finished, "seeing that He ever
liveth to make intercession for them." But says
one, "We have to believe in His atonement."
"He that believeth not shall be damned." Then
we have to do something, and when that is ad-
mitted, does it not prove conclusively that, Christ
having done His part, we are required to do ours,
if we wish to secure that which we desire.
The very fact of our being required to believe
and be baptized proves there is something neces-
sary for us to do before we can "lay hold on eternal
life;" and that being the case, does it not clearly
show that they who clamor with holy horror
against doing anything to obtain salvation are in
error?
	Certain divines tell us that they must adapt the
truth to the advancement of the age, which means
that they must murder it and throw its dead body
to the dogs. It is asserted that the advanced
philosophy of the nineteenth century requires a
progressive theology to keep abreast of it, which
simply means that a popular lie shall take the
place of an offensive truth. Thus it is that mod-
ern Christianity, notwithstanding its popularity,
has proven a failure—because it is not the Chris-
tianity which Christ taught. Ringing down the
centuries come the Saxior's words: "If we love
me keep my commandments." "He that saith I
know Him and keepeth not His commandments,
is a liar, and the truth is not in Him." Therefor,
those who desire to be saved in the Kingdom of
our God must have faith in God and in His Son
Jesns Christ, our Redeemer, repent of their sins,
be baptized in water for the remission of the same,
have hands laid upon them for the reception of
the Holy Ghost by one having authority, and con-
tinue to walk in the narrow path which leads to
endless lives- "working out their salvation with
fear and trembling," by the grace of Him who has
called us out of darkness into His marvelous light.
And "Behold, now is the accepted time; now is
the day of salvation." (2 Cor vi, 2.)
	N. W. MCLEOD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿

WHAT OF THE OPPOSITE ELEMENT.

	Is it possible that our enemies are not satisfied
now since they think we are whipped into submis-
sion, as it is apparent to-day? But you ask, why
call them enemies? Well, they are displeased
with us under all circumstances, because we have
received the heavenly message, and they will not
receive it. We are ridiculed and are disgraceful
in their eyes.
	It is written that the Lord made of one blood all
the nations of the earth. Accordingly they are as
responsible how they treat this message as we are.
Do they lack good common sense? No, perhaps
they are so well satisfied with this world, that they
have no time to think of another.
	Those who give their attention to the doctrines
of Jesus Christ and His Apostles, will see that
they all showed, by precept and example, that re-
spect for the higher powers, which was their due.
	In Romans thirteenth chapter St. Paul says:
"Let every soul be subject to the higher powers.

[Column 2]

For there is no power but of God: the powers
that be, are ordained of God." Believing as we
do, that St. Paul spoke these words by inspiration
of the Holy Spirit, we should not pass them by
unnoticed, but give heed to the same, which we
are doing at the present time. But we remember
also the words spoken by the Prophet Joseph, in
Nauvoo, Jan. 29th, 1841, recorded in Doctrine and
Covenants Sec. 124, v. 49 and 50:
	"Verily, verily I say unto you, that when I give
a commandment to any of the sons of men, to do a
work unto my name, and those sons of men go
with all their might, and with all they have, to per-
form that work, and cease not their diligence, and
their enemies come upon them, and hinder them
from performing that work; behold, it behooveth
me to require that work no more at the hands of
those sons of men, but to accept of their offerings.
And the iniquity and transgression of my holy
laws and commandments, I will visit upon the
heads of those who hindered my work, unto the
third and fourth generation, so long as they re-
pent not, and hate me, saith the Lord God."
	Looking at this subject in the light of reason
and common sense, we would ask: are not all the
human family children of God, our Father, and
accountable to Him how His commands are
obeyed and kept? St. Peter, in Acts second chap-
ter 13th verse, says: "Submit yourselves to every
ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it
be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, as
unto them that are sent by him for the punish-
ment of evil doers, and for the praise of them that
do well." Our Lord and Savior also was subject,
as we learn from the New Testament; yet He
sometimes escaped their hands and got out of
their way for a season, until His work was ac-
complished. Yet, He always showed respect to
the higher powers, even until death, when He
cried out: "Father, forgive them, they know not
what they do."
	And why are we whipped into submission? Do
we always know what spirit we are of, while we
are engaged in this important work—this latterday
work? I know that the good and bad spirit does
not inhabit our tabernacles at the same time. Yet,
the bad one is ever at our elbow, to suggest some-
thing about this work, when he can not hinder
us in the performance of it. When we listen it 
is to our disadvantage every time. It is important
that we should know the difference in the two
spirits. Yes, that we have the discernment of
spirits; for our Great Head is not pleased with
anything short of strict obedience to His laws.
His work can not be accomplished in any other
way; although He has been very merciful to our
inexperience, while we were learning these les-
sons. But now it is time we knew them, for
we surely deserve a chastisement if we have not
learned. Let us acknowledge His hand in it, and
awaken to our duty. How has it been in rearing
large families? Were we always in posession of
the good spirit? Did we ever chastise in anger?
If so, it did the child no good. Were we not
grasping for the things of this life more than for
the riches of eternity? If so, we must be losers,
yet, we can profit by the lesson, which is an im-
portant one; because by it we become more ac-
quainted with ourselves and the need we have of
living nearer to God, and seeking diligently for
His Spirit to guide and direct us continually in
the performance of His work, for no other spirit
will suffice. We must learn the two spirits and
how to treat each one as they deserve.
	It is written that judgment will begin at the
house of God. We must purify ourselves to be
acceptable to Him. Does our Heavenly Father
chastise in severity? No, I think not; but He
allows the tempter to do it at times; and he de-
lights to whip those who will not listen and obey
his laws, and he requires as strict obedience of
his subjects as the Lord does. How could he ac-
complish his designs without it?

[Column 3]

	It is only a few days since I heard two gentle-
men converse. One of them said: "You will find
in a short time such a rush of Gentiles here that
your people will all be won over to the other
side." "Well," replied the other, "why not turn
the other way, and adhere to our side of the ques-
tion?" "No," he replied, "the world are not re-
ligious." How true, thought I. Yet a portion of
the human family always admire the works of an
allwise Parent, and long to know something more
of His character; and by studying the records of
those of similar character, they feel benefited by
the same. The Lord knows who they are, and
gives a portion of His Spirit to such. This Spirit
will show them things to come, and bring things
to their remembrance, making every effort in life
successful, which would be for their best good.
	Our Savior knew this when He said, "Except
ye are one, ye are not mine." This Spirit makes
them one in mind and feeling. It is like a pair of
good eye glasses, it enables us to see things in
their own true light.
	May we always be worthy to retain this Spirit,
is the sincere desire of
	M. E. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Aug. 3rd, 1887.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP'S CLASS.

	The following ladies, who have attended the
lectures of Dr. Shipp during the last six months,
passed very successful examinations, held by Drs.
Anderson and Bower, who complimented the
ladies very highly. The ladies who received their
certificates were: Mrs. Miranda Bateman and
Mathilda Olsen, Misses Carrie Jensen, Emma
Evans, all of Salt Lake County, Miss Jennie
Lloyd, of Cache County, and Miss Esther C. Par-
kinson, of Oneida County. Dr. Shipp intends to
commence a class about Oct. 1st. Any ladies wish- 
ing to study obstetrics would do well to communi-
cate with her before that date. She has given
such good satisfaction in the study of obstetrics,
that she should certainly receive patronage from
those desirous of gaining information upon this
necessary and important branch of the department
of medical science.


ITEMS FROM ENGLAND.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In my last letter I told you Her Majesty
had gone to Balmoral to spend her burth-day.
The morning of May 24th dawned brightly,
and the bells commenced ringing merrily, can-
nons were fired at intervals throughout the
day from the various dockyards and forts.
Flags were to be seen in every thoroughfare,
and the illuminations in the evening were gen-
eral, but the grandest were reserved for the
Jubilee day, which is fixed for June 21st. The
Aristocracy gave balls, banquets and receptions
to celebrate the 68th birthday of their illustri-
ous sovereign; but with these exceptions, no
public feeling of loyalty was manifest. Every-
one seemed determined to centre their atten-
tion on the day proclaimed by Her Majesty to
be kept as a jubilee holiday, in honor of the
Jubilee.
	There has been a special coinage this year,
and the coins represent the Queen, as she is at
the present time, on one side, and Saint George
and the dragon on the other. The portrait is
fairly good, but the crown to which her veil is
attached, is so placed on her head that it gives
one the impression it is falling off, and in a
great measure mars the coin. These, I believe,
are only to be circulated this year. On the
whole it is no improvement on the old coinage,
The half sovereigns and sixpences being so
much alike in size and stamp, that at the Crys-
tal Palace recently 32 sixpences had been
gilded over and tendered by some dishonest


[Column 1]

﻿people for half-sovereigns, and their similarity
causes dissatisfaction and distrust, and, if re-
ports are to be believed, these coins will be
called in. There is also a five pound piece,
which really possesses advantages, also the new
five shilling pieces; these latter are generally
retained by those who get them as mementos of
this eventful year. The editor of a Daily Tele-
graph newspaper has raised a fund in order to
give the children of London Board schools a
fete in honor of the Jubilee. Contributions
have been sent from all parts, and it is ar-
ranged to take place in Hyde Park on June
22nd, when the Queen has promised to drive
through that they may see her. It is an amus-
ing and interesting sight just now to walk
through some of our principal railway stations,
such as Charing Cross or Victoria, and watch
the arrivals of foreigners who have come to
London to witness the procession, which will
take place on June 21st from Buckingham
Palace to Westminister Abbey. Here is a
group of Germans, unable to speak English,
vainly looking for an interpreter to enable
them to get their luggage and proceed to their
hotels. Just opposite are two French ladies,
who are talking to a gentleman of the same
nationality and who evidently has been in
England some time. And how they are chat-
tering! as if their tongues were unlocked and
they now meant to make up for lost time. To
the right stands a party of distinguished look-
ing Indian gentlemen, who are evidently to be
guests of royalty from the carriage which they
quickly enter amidst cheers from the crowd,
who have followed the carriage and who feel
inclined to cheer anybody and anything con-
nected with the forthcoming event. Now and
then an Indian servant may be seen with the
pictursque red and white turban, and he stands
out in sharp contrast to the quiet-looking dress
of our own servants and porters, who, after
staring a few moments, hurry on with their
work calling cabs, rushing here and there with
luggage till all the passengers are gone to their
homes, and the next train comes in, when the
same scene is again enacted. The conutenan-
ces of the passengers are a study, some laugh-
ing, some crying, some looking intensely happy,
others very miserable. In the streets, in the
parks, the hotels, every place seems full of life,
and a pretty scene presents itself to our eyes
upon going in the parks, to see lovely green
trees and foliage which form a charming back-
ground to the bright, many-colored dresses of
the ladies, and the curious but extremely pic-
turesque dress of the foreign visitors.
	Queen Kapiolani of the Sandwich Islands.
and the Princess and suite have arrived, and
are staying at one of the West end hotels. The
Indian Princes are the guests of the Queen at
Buckingham Palace. The King of Denmark,
King and Queen of the Belgians, King of
Saxony, King of the Helenas, have also ar-
rived; also a representative from the Pope, and
many others too numerous to mention. All
the children of Queen Victoria will be present,
and most of her grand-children, and will take
part in the procession as well as the foreign
visitors. Rotten Row, the fashionable prom-
enade, is unpleasantly crowded, theatres are
filled, garden parties are being given, and en-
joyment and festivities are having full sway.
The Queen has returned to Windsor, and is
daily giving dinner parties and receiving ad-
dresses and deputations of congratulations. The
Prince and Princess of Wales have a house
full of visitors, and surely such a number of
kings, queens, princes and princesses never met
before.
	Westminister Abbey is finished and its usual
aspect is quite altered. From the floor to the
ceiling, seats, covered with red cloth, have been
erected for the accommodation of the favored
ones who will be permitted to witness the State
ceremony. A dais has been erected for the
royal family, and Her Majesty will occupy the

[Column 2]

Coronation Chair of Historical Interest. Out-
side the abbey a covered way has been erected
for the visitors to pass through, and a grand
stand has been erected for the members of
Parliament. The abbey is hid from view. The
whole of Sunday previous; to the ceremony,
workmen were busy hammering and erecting
stands, and were paid doubly for working on
the Sabbath, and it was surprising to see the
alacrity with which they stilled their feelings
about the sacredness of the Sabbath and of its
being a day of rest, when double wages were
offered.
	The military arrangements are now finally
authorized by the Duke of Cambridge, and
have been so arranged that the whole of the
route will be lined with military and naval de-
tachments. Westminister Hospital, which faces
the abbey, is externally in the hands of the
carpenters, who are putting seats all around
the building and erecting boards for spectators.
These seats, like a number of others, are fetch-
ing almost fabulous prices, such as ten guineas
for one seat, fifty guineas for a window, etc;
but, unlike most other schemes, the proceeds
will go to benefit the hospital, which nobly de-
serves all the support it can get. Hundreds of
sufferers are relieved here yearly, and funds
cannot be required or given for a better cause,
viz: the relief of our suffering fellow creatures.
	From one end of London to the other decor-
ations may be seen; the traffic is enormous,
the streets are almost blocked. Sightseers in
vehicles and on foot throng the streets, om-
nibuses are crowded outside and in, and tak-
ing advantage of the occasion by doubling, and
in some instances trebling, the ordinary fares;
but holiday makers, with their true English
characteristics, grumble and pay, well knowing
it can only be seen once in a lifetime.
	In my next letter I will endeavor to tell you
a little about the ceremony of June 21st.
		MARION.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society of the
Maricopa Stake convened at the Society Hall,
June 16th, 1887, commencing at 1 p.m., Prest.
Elizabeth G. McDonald presiding. Opened
by singing, "O my Father, Thou that dwell-
est." Prayer by Bro. E. Ellsworth. Singing, 
"Sweet is the day of sacred rest."
	A few remarks were then made by Prest.
McDonald, expressive of her pleasure in meet-
ing with the sisters again under such favorable
circumstances. Roll of officers was then called,
which was generally responded to. Minutes
of previous conference read and approved Re-
ports were then called for from the different
branches of the Stake. Mesa was represented
by Prest. Mabel A. Hakes; Lehi, Prest. Lizzie
McDonald; Almy, Prest. Ann Kleinman;
Kempe not reported;  Papago, Coun. Savage.
Their reports were very encouraging, showing
the branches of the Relief Society in this dis-
tant country were trying to keep in the track
of their more favored sisters in the far north.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Morris, Bro.
Henry Rogers made some very interesting re-
marks. Had been much interested in the re-
ports and proceedings thus far. Said the time
had come when we had all got to stand for our-
selves; we know the Lord is on our side. Spoke
of being in Phoenix and meeting ex-Governor
Trittle; also Governor Zulich. "The one signed
the law disfranchising our people, the other
signed the bill repu liating it. They both have
made their records;  the one to endless infamy,
the other to everlasting honor. The Lord has
brought us to this land for a purpose; we must
sanctify the land by our good works; let us
strive to obtain the welcome plaudit, 'Well
done!'" Felt proud of the sisters; they were

[Column 2]

doing a good work, and were a great help in
the Stake. Was glad to meet with them in
their conference, and prayed the Lord to bless
them in their labors.
	Bishop Oscar Stewart felt that the Priesthood
of God was in the land, and they had a power-
ful backing in the sisters. Said the Spirit of
God had prompted him to come to this country,
and the opposite power should not draw him
out. "Let us retain our integrity to the cause
of truth."
	Bro. Charles Allen had listened with the
greatest satisfaction to what had been said.
Said the sisters were a great help to the
brethren. "We have got to pass through
trials, but the God of heaven will sustain us if
we are faithful." Gave many valuable instruc-
tions, which were cheering and encouraging to
his hearers.
	Bro. A. F. Stewart said, "All these Associa-
tions were necessary for the carrying on of the
work of God." Compared them to the wheels
of a watch;  each one was necessary to the other.
	Bro. Ellsworth had really enjoyed the meet-
ing and the remarks of the sisters; thought
many of them could beat the brethren speak-
ing;  thought this mission was established for an
Indian mission, and it was the duty of each
and every one to help sustain it. Spoke of the
duty of mothers in the training of their child-
ren. "Those who have done their duty in this
direction are our faithful sisters, those who at-
tend our meetings, and are always on hand to
do good."
	Officers of the Stake were then presented to
the conference and unanimously sustained.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald said how necessary it
was to keep the Spirit of God in our hearts in
every position in life. Gave good instruction
in regard to the raising of our children, and
teaching them day by day. "Remember those
where the head of the house is away; the situa-
tion of these sisters is not always understood."
Bore testimony that this is the Church and
kingdom of God. Conference adjourned for
three months. Singing, "God moves in a mys-
terious way." Benediction by Henry Rogers.
	SARAH M. POMEROY. Sec.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, held June 27th
1887, Sister John presiding with Couuselor
Emily G. Cluff, Sisters Horne and Zina D. H.
Young also present. Conference opened by 
singing and prayer; reading of minutes of
former conference etc.
	Sister John felt pleased that we had Sisters
Young and Horne with us who are able to edify
and instruct us. We live in a momentous
age but the Lord is with his people etc.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said, we have a great
deal to encourage, bless and oomfort us as a
people. I am pleased to have the sisters with
us to day, and we ought to strive to attend
these meetings. If we try we can so order our
work that we can gain time to attend meeting
and will be blessed in so doing.
	Sister Zina Young was very thankful to
meet with us again; had not met with us since
many of our dear sisters have been called away
to work in a wider sphere of usefulness. Our
reports show that we are humble and willing
to work. We are weak but God is our helper.
The path is plain before us;  let us each watch
our own feet;  let us strive for the Spirit of God
for when we have His Spirit our senses are satis-
fied. We can receive through prayer great bless-
ings. Let us cultivate the spirit of meekness and
kindness and be saviors upon Mount Zion etc.
	Sister Horne said, it was some time since
she had met with the sisters in Provo. Thought
we were blessed in these meetings; we can build
and be built up and if we would be more
punctual in attending these meetings, we should
gain spiritual food; we each have our own


[Column 1]

agency, and can accept or reject our salvation.
I thank the Lord daily that I am connected
with the Relief Society. The teachers have all
important mission; they should have prayer
before starting on their rounds of visiting they
should counsel the sisters to attend their meet-
ings, and advise them to read the Church works,
etc. We must not judge others or talk about 
them; we must guard well our thoughts and 
actions, and if we are faithful the Lord will
pour out his blessings upon us; advised the
young sisters to be careful with whom they as-
sociated, and not countenance young men that
were addicted to bad habits, and try to put
down evil in every way etc.
	After singing conference adjourned till 2
p.m.
	Conference opened at 2 p.m. with singing 
and prayer. Presidents Smoot and Cluff were
present.
	Sister Horne spoke again for a short time;
said we are co-workers with our brethren. We
need the Spirit of God to guide us in what we
do, we cannot comprehend the magnitude of
God's work; spoke of rendering honor to whom
honor is due, and each one working in her
own place and sphere. We shall be judged by
our own deeds etc. The Lord has complained
of our pride, our selfishness and selfwill and
said if we did not repent we should be
punished. The Lord suffers us to be perse-
cuted that we may be brought to remember
Him. We must keep our lamps trimmed and 
burning. Mothers set good examples before 
your children; teach them to be obedient; keep
them at home nights etc.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young desired the faith
and prayers of the sisters, the teachings that
we have had are food for the soul.
	Sister Horne has remarked on the time that
we should be classified; we cannot be promis-
cuous in our associations. Spoke of the evil
of Sabbath-breaking; and said the Lord was not
well pleased with us on that account; it takes
constant care to raise our children aright; culti-
vate faith in them, when we have enough faith
the Lord will come; spoke of the evil of letting
our children go to outside schools, make home
happy; never indulge in a fault-finding spirit,
and never forget your prayers;  spoke also in the
interest of the Silk Association, and advised the
sisters to persevere in raising cocoons, etc.
	Prest. Smoot spoke a short time;  felt that we
had had a feast of good teachings. Spoke of
our being in bondage to Babyon, in having to
get almost everything that we have from that
source. Said, "I hate bondage, when it can be
avoided. We can stand persecution for the
Gospel's sake, but not for vanity or pride. Let
the adornment of your bodies be the work of
your own hands," etc.
	Prest. Cluff followed with a few remarks,
calculated to encourage the sisters in good
works.
	Sister John felt that we had been amply
paid in coming to meeting. Said, "After sing-
ing we will adjourn for three months." Choir
sang, "Praise God, from whom all blessings
flow," etc.  Benediction by Prest A. O. Smoot.
	C. DANIELS, Sec.

	ALBION, CASSIA CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have intended for some time to send you a
report of our Relief Society. We were organ-
ized in September, 1884, by Bishop Horton D.
Haight and Wm. C. Martindale, of Oakley."
Our Society is known as the Albion Branch,
of the Cassia Ward, Box Elder Stake of Zion,
with the following named officers: Ada I.
Brim, President, Mary Lewis, and Rosabel A.
Brim, Counselors, Fannie L. Harper and Mary
Jones, Teachers, Althea Lewis, Secretary, Louie
Brim, Assistant Secretary, and Faunie L. Har-
per, Treasurer. There are only a few Latter-

[Column 2]

day Saints here, and we are surrounded with
those that are not of our faith, but they are
peaceable people, causing us no trouble what
ever. We hold our meetings every two weeks,
and they are very well attended, considering
the scattered condition of the sisters.
	We are few in number, but we enjoy a
goodly portion of the Spirit of the Lord. The
sisters are united and are very liberal in their
donations. Our Society has progressed very
favorably so far. There are no poor among us,
for which we feel grateful to our Heavenly
Father; that He sees fit to bless us all with
means to take care of ourselves. Hoping we
may ever retain the Spirit of the Lord to guide
us in all our good endeavors, and ever praying
for the welfare of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel of Christ.
		ADA I. BRIM, Prest.
		ALTHEA LEWIS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL MEETING.
	Minutes of Annual Meeting of the Y.
L.	M. I. A. of the Seventh Ward held May
18th, 1887, President Sarah Eddington presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by
Bishop Wm. Thorne. Singing. Roll called, 
and minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved, after which the report of the Y. L.
meeting for the year ending May 13th, 1887,
was read by the Secretary. It was followed
by the programme exercises.
	An interesting correspondence, between Kate
Thomas and Alice McLachin was read. The
subjects touched upon in it were, revelation.
baptism for the dead, and the character and 
attributes of God. The 6th number of Vol.
4 of the Young Ladies' Journal, was read by
Alice Dinwoody. The paper was full of in-
structions, that would tend to elevate our 
morals, if put in practice. The congregation
then joined in singing the hymn, "The Spirit 
of God like a fire is burning."
	There were on the stand Prest. Angus M.
Cannon, Bishop Wm. Thorne, Coun. Thomas
H. Woodbury and R. K. Thomas; Sisters Tay-
lor, Dougall, Shipp, Lambert, Horne and others.
Remarks were made by Prest. Cannon, E. S.
Taylor, Maria Y. Dougall, Maggie Shipp and
M. I. Horne. They entreated the young ladies
to be virtuous and pure, to keep their characters
free from any stain, and urged them to prepare
themselves for the coming of the Savior, by
keeping His commandments and magnifying
our calling upon the earth; also made other en-
couraging remarks.
	A vote of thanks was tendered our visitors
for their presence and the good instructions
imparted by them.	
	The congregation then sang, "Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation." Benediction 
by Thomas H. Woodbury.
	After the meeting was over the company,
consisting of the members of the Relief Society,
the members of the Young Ladies' Association
and the visitors before mentioned, retired to 
the basement, where an excellent supper was 
prepared for them to make the evening more
enjoyable.
			ALICE MOLACIILAN, Sec.
	The following was composed by one of the
members of the Association for the Young
Ladies' Journal:
				A PRAYER,
	Our Father who in heaven doth reign
		In glory high above,
	Look down upon us here to-night,
		And fill us with Thy love.
	Thou knowest all our weakness, Lord,
		Thou searchest every heart;
	Oh bless and purify each soul,
		The Holy Ghost impart.
	That spirit which the things of God

[Column Two]

		Doth manifest to man,
	Brood o'er us while we study here
		The glorious Gospel plan.
	Thee do we ever wish to serve,
		And glorify Thy name.
	They testimony we desire,
		They presence to regain.
	Bless our Association, Lord,
		That we together may
	Unitedly and firmly stand,
		Fearless the trying day.
	And strengthen us that we may know
		Our feet are in the path.
	That road which leadeth back to Thee-
		The straight and narrow path.
	Our Father! here we dedicate
		Our future life to Thee;
	Do Thou accept and teach us how
		All wickedness to flee-
	To come to Thee in confidence
		Each weakness to confess,
	Proving how ready to forgive,
		How near Thou art to bless.
	Help us, dear Lord, to win Thy smile,
		Thy glory let us see;
	And when on earth our work is done,
		Oh, guide us home to Thee.


MAY-DAY CELEBRATION.

	The Primary Association of Woodruff, Ari- 
zona, met in the school house at 9 o'clock, on
the 7th of May, ult., for the purpose of cele-
brating May-day, presided over by President
Sally Ann Owens. The children sang "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer." Prayer was offered by
Bishop J. C. Owens. Next was a song by the
Maids of Honor, viz: Eliza Tenny, Bessie
Deans, Nettie Webb, Sarah Tennie, Aretha
Bates, Maud Owens, Pearl Cross, Corn Cross,
Nelly Webb, Irene Bates, Carrie Webb and
Zina Owens.
	The crowning of the Queen, Ruth Gardner,
was performed while the song was being sung,
which was excellently rendered. Next was a
speech by the Queen, as follows:

Dear friends and all relations we've assembled here to-day,
To give to all a celebration, on this the 7th of May,
It seems that you have choosen to elect me as  your queen,
May I set an example worthy to be seen;
I hope I may be able, with joy to fill my place,
That it may be an honor to me, and not as a disgrace.
And may I live more worthily, to reach a higher mood
In the estimation of my friends, and also of my God.

	Primary children then sang,"In Our Lovely
Deseret." Next was an opening address by
Charles Lillywhite. Bella Gardner then gave
a recitation entitled, "The Old Hat." Next
was questions and answers on the life of Joseph
Smith, by a small class of boys, conducted by
Mary E. Lillywhite. Recitation by a small
class of girls, conducted by Sylvia Owens, en-
titled, "The Floral Alphabet." Song by Mary
Owens and company, entitled, "To The Work."
A dialogue was given by two small boys, Guy
Gardner and Wilford Webb. Bella Garduer
and Joseph Deans then sang a comic song en-
titled, "The Bummers;" a song by the Maids
of Honor entitled "With Merry Hearts We
Leave Our Play;" the Lord's prayer, recited
by Eliza Owens and company; dialogue by
Frank and Milo Webb, entitled "The Young
Critie." Bishoy J. C. Owens then made a few
remarks, giving some good instructions to the
children. Brother Geo. B. Gardner also made
a few remarks. The President gave some good
advice. Singing "Lord, Dismiss Us." Benedic-
tion by Clark Owens.
	All then went home to refresh themselves.
The queen and her maids being invited, went
to the house of the President to dine. At 2
o'clock all met again at the school house, and
the little ones danced about two hours, during
which time refreshments were served. The
Bishop's wife, who had been sick about a year,
was present; all seemed glad to see her, and
well they might. Songs recitations, etc., were


given at intervals during the dancing, and all
seomed to enjoy themselves well. Counselors
Isabelle Webb and Ellen Bates and all took
an active part in the success of the entertain-
ment.
	SYLVIA OWENS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO BISHOP MADSEN.

	I must tell you something that certainly is
news, though it seems almost frivolous to talk
about pleasures in such times as we now live in.
About sixty of the good people of this place
assembled at our house on the 23rd, ult., the
Bishop's birthday, to give him a friendly sur-
prise. We had gone out to see the cane field,
and when we came back they were all awaiting
the Bishop. The weather was lovely; the gar-
den and porch afforded shady room for the
happy, friendly company. A table, at which
thirty people could sit at a time, was filled with
a bounteous picnic, and an elegant reclining-
chair, the gift of those assembled, to the
Bishop, was placed at the head of the table.
Bro. John E. Metcalf, First Counselor to the
Bishop, presided, and in a nice little speech
told the Bishop, in behalf of those present, how
happy they were to meet; and this was the way
they felt to express their good feelings for him,
and their appreciation of his labors among
them and for them. The Bishop was entirely
ignorant of anything going on, until he turned
to drive in through the gate; when it dawned
upon his mind what it meant; and he asked
me if I didn't know this, and I told him that I
did; but it was not customary to "tell."
	H. M.


NOTICE.

	The Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annual
Stake reports, carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of
September, that a complete and satifactory re-
port may be made to the general conference in
October.
	Direct the reports to Miss Mary E. Cook,
323 E. Taiid South Street, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]
Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Office and Residence at the Deseret Hospital,
Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City.

The Warm Springs car passes the Hospital, which
can also be reached by Telephone No. 269.

[Column 2]
﻿R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS.
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL.
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	Moral courage is the rarest of qualities, and
often maligned.
	Life is too short to be spent in minding other
people's business.
	Faith steps in to our aid when our boasted
knowledge and reason fail.
	It is the reply rather than the statement
that makes the quarrel.—E. P. Day.
	Uneducated men may escape intellectual de-
gradation; uneducated women cannot.—Sid-
ney Smith.
	What men want is not talent, it is purpose;
in other words, not the power to achieve, but
the will to labor.—Bulwer Lytton.
	If the poet be correct in his morals, his verse
will partake of the same purity; the pen is the
tongue of the mind, and what his conceptions
are, such will be his productions.—Cervantes.


﻿OBITUARIES.

	Died at Coveville, Cache Co., Utah, on May the 19th,
1887, of paralysis, Emma Bloomfield. She was born at
Bungary Suffolk, England, March 18th, 1827. Was bap-
tized into the Church by John Bloomfield, Nov. 3rd, 1853,
after which she emigrated to Utah, and settled at Franklin.
In October, 1861, she was married to Isaac Vaile, and
lived in the order of celestial marriage till her husband was


called away to labor in another sphere. She afterwards
married Mark Preece, who was a widower with a family of
small children, and Sister Emma, never having been blest
with children of her own, took the motherless children to
her heart and has been a mother to them indeed. About
thirteen years ago she moved with her husband to Cove-
ville, where she resided till her death. When the Relief 
Society of this ward was organized she was set apart as
president, which position she honorably and nobly fulfilled
till sickness compelled her to resign. For many years she
has been a sufferer; but she bore her afflictions with forti-
titude, and waited patiently for the time to come when she
would have the privilege of joining those dear ones who
have gone before—where, free from pain and sorrow in the
mansions of the blessed, her spirit would be free. Of Sister
Emma it may truly be said, blessed are the dead that die in
the Lord. She has kept the faith, she has fought the good
fight, and her reward is sure. Her memory and her acts of
kindness will long live in the hearts of her numerous friends.
She died as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint; and
in full hopes of a glorious resurrection.

	While here she was one of the faithful,
		Who walked in the fear of the Lord;
	Her death, like the righteous, was peaceful,
		With them she'll inherit reward.

	She's gone to the bright habitation,
		Where truth's martyred worthies remain,
	To aid in the song of salvation
		Till Christ on the earth comes to reign.

			JANE R. BIGGS.


﻿IN MEMORY OF MARY JANE CREER.

	Mary Jane Creer, daughter of Willard Orson and Emma
Creer, was born Jan. 22nd, 1876 in Spanish Fork City, and
died June 11th, 1887.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst our much loved sister and associate, Mary
Jane Creer.
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of the
Primary Association of Spanish Fork, do truly sympathize
with her parents in their sad bereavement; for we realize
that our much loved sister was an amiable and exemplary
child. She was a regular attendant at our Primary meet-
ings, and was always punctual in whatever she promised to
do, and was much beloved by all her associates; she has 
left a record worthy of imitation.
	Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be presented to
her parents, one sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and
one kept upon our Primary record.

	Mary Jane was called away
	From Sunday School and Primary, 
	And we miss the gentle face
	From its long accustomed place.
	Happy child! She learned in youth
	Principles of life and truth;
	And	all the good she gained while here,
	Will aid her in a brighter sphere.
	Her spirit mingles with the blest,
	Her body in the grave will rest
	Until the resurrection morn'
	Long promised, on the world shall dawn.
			HANNAH CORNABY.

		ELIZA G. JEX, Prest.
		CAROLINE PACE,
		MARY J. MORRISON, Counselor
		HANNAH JEX, Sec.


﻿DIED. Elizabeth Barber, aged 78 years and two months,
at the house of her son-in-law, Saml. Pike, on the 1st of
August. Her remains were buried in Logan Cemetery on
Wednesday 3rd, inst. She embraced the Gospel in the
early days of the Church at Birmingham, England, and
emigrated in 1870. She endured much suffering from in-
flammatory rheumatism and dropsy for many years with
great fortitude and patience. She was a mild, wise woman,
and left five children to mourn her loss.
		EMMA PIKE.
Logan City, Utah, Aug. 5th, 1787.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1887.	NO. 7.


EVENING THOUGHTS.

The winds blow low—the winds blow high,
	And threatening storm-clouds gather near—
And Satan's hosts are marshal'd nigh,
	Perchance to foul the atmosphere.

Where, where have truth and justice fled?
	Why are they not in session found?
Their posts seem occupied instead,
	By adverse spirits lurking 'round,

But truth is true, and justice just,
	And such they ever will remain;
And 'tis decreed, ere long, they must
	Return and fill their seats again.

It seems that hell has opened wide
	And sent its vilest imps abroad,
To vilify, impugn, deride,
	And persecute the Saints of God.

But God is God and will sustain
	The glorious work he has begun,
Till peace shall from its rising, reign
	Unto the setting of the sun.

Fear not, ye Saints—you who indeed
	Are living as the Lord requires,
To sacred cov'nants giving heed,
	And every word which God inspires.

An ordeal furnace near at hand,
	Will test your faith and texture too;
But God will give you grace to stand,
	And He will help you safely through.

And when the winds and tempests blow,
	And the primed furnace vents its heat;
Whatever comes, 'tis yours to know,
	Your triumph yet will be complete.

Not so with those who, falt'ring, break
	The sacred vows they've enter'd in;
With life and with their all at stake,
	They seek the world's applause to win.

They'll draw your saintly sympathy
	Over the hapless choice they make;
For when 'tis all too late, they'll see
	They made a ruinous mistake.

O that we all would watch and pray,
	And ever true and faithful be—
Move on and upward day by day,
	And nearer, O, our God, to Thee.

		E. R. S. S.
Salt Lake City, August 24, 1887.    Eliza R. S. Smith


THE LAND OF YESTERDAY.

Far in the West, beyond the setting sun,
	Beyond the waves that glow like molten gold,
There lies an island; and, when day is done
	And we gaze o'er the waters, we behold
Its calm green meadows and clear winding streams
	And purple hills that seem to touch the sky;
But over all there hangs a mist of dreams, 
	Scarce lifted by the breeze that seems a sigh,
And never voice comes from the Silent Shore,
	But whispered sounds and songs of days of yore.

The isle is called the Land of Yesterday;
	And there are buried human hopes and fears,
And joys and sorrows—ay, and hearts, they say,
	That have been broken in this world of tears!
And you and I have each our treasures there,
	And stretch out yearning hands toward the shore,
And long to wander in the meadows fair,
	And sweet loved paths we knew in days of yore;
But the chill mist hangs o'er the farther side,
And sounds of weeping float across the tide.


Alas, we never, never more may stand
		Again within the Land of Yesterday—
	Never may hope to clasp with eager hand
		The days that were too bright, too sweet to stay!
	But, lest our sinking hearts should wholly die,
		There comes the promise of a dawn so bright
	That all the mists and all the gloom will fly,
		And all the sorrow pass in golden light,
	And God Himself in heav'n's most glad "For aye"
	Restore our treasures lost in Yesterday.
—Family Herald.
		A. L. B.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM ENGLAND.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On the morning of June 20th, the day pre-
vious to the one appointed for the State Service
to be held in Westminster Abbey, London
was, for probably the first time in its life, in
true holiday attire. The day was one of those
pure, clear days, when no density of atmos-
phere or suspicion of fog marred the full
beauty of the effect. Our grand old buildings
were never shown to such advantage. St.
Paul's Cathedral, from a turn on the river,
came into full view, and every part of the
dome and cross was clearly discernible. The
sun shone gloriously upon the gilt tracery of
the House of Parliament, that stood out grand-
ly in relief with the back ground of clear blue
sky. The gloomy, somber air London usually
wears, when contrasted with the bright conti-
nental cities, was nowhere to be seen, and in its
stead we had sunny weather and balmy air.
One might have imagined Comus had taken us
all under his control for the time being. It
was a general holiday, and every one seemed
bent upon enjoyment. Surely no fete day in
Paris had ever rivaled the West End of Lon-
don in picturesque style. Piccadily, Bond
Street and Waterloo Place was fairyland itself.
Standing at the Duke of York's Column, and
looking up to Piccadily circus, we could well 
imagine we were in the grounds of an enchanted
palace, with the double approach of triumphal
arches. Garlands of roses were festooned
across the streets, and hanging baskets of
flowers suspended by cords from either side.
From Constitution Hill to the Mall the decora-
tions were the finest and most splendid, on ac-
count of the richness of the materials em-
ployed. Silk velvet, brocades and tapestries
were much used here with good effect. At
Piccadily circus end a triumphal arch was 
erected, which spanned the street and was sur-
mounted by the royal arms, and bore this 
motto: "Victoria, all nations calute you." This
was followed down the incline of Regent Street
and Waterloo Place by a number of panels
(thirteen in all) suspended from the houses in
a transverse direction to give the appearance
of a continuation of the arch. The mottoes
on these were as follows: "1837, Jubilee 1887."
"The British Isles." "The Indian Empire."
"Your Colonies and Dependencies, in Europe, 
in Asia, in Africa, in America, in Australasia,
and Oceana Give You Greeting," and at the
end of these a triumphal arch, similar to the
first, was erected, bearing these words: "Victoria,
our Queen." Pall Mall and St. James was
a blaze of red cloth and fanciful devices.
Piccadily had some very handsome decorations
by private individuals; conspicuous among
these were Baroness Burdett Coutts, who
spared no expense; it consisted of crimson

[Column 2]

velvet, gold bullion fringe and a festooned
drapery of blue and silver. The white pillars
were alternately bound with blue and silver
cloths and sprays of ivy, and was most artistic;
it stood out in pleasing relief to the endless
red and yellow along the route. This house
certainly carried off the prize in that vicinity.
Devonshire House was also very effectively
decorated, but the arrangements for the
illuminations seemed to be the feature here.
Another noticable feature was the decoration
of Charing Cross Grand Hotel and the Consti-
tutional Club, which were trimmed with blue
and primrose color, the former being a blaze
of crimson and gold.
	Northumberland Avenue, on which the
hotel stands, was gay with venetian masts fixed
from lamp-post to lamp-post. Besides these,
what may be termed general decorations,almost
every house was more or less elaborately de-
corated.
	All night throngs of people traversed the 
route, and as early as four in the morning
most of the people had assembled, ready to see 
the procession, that took place nearly seven
hours later. But jubilees are rare occasions,
and the crowd seemed determined to put up
with any discomforts, without grumbling or
being ill-humored, during the long hours of
waiting. The weather being fine, it made it
more pleasant, and even dustmen and water
cart drivers came in for many a ringing cheer
from the bystanders, who felt inclined to be
joyful.
	The first part of the procession set out from
Buckingham Palace at 10:15, and consisted of
Indian chiefs and members of the Royal family
and their suites. At 11:15 the Queen's pro-
cession started, and consisted of eleven
carriages, the first five containing Lords and
ladies in waiting; the next five contained the
children and grandchildren of Her Majesty,
and the eleventh contained the Queen, the
Princess of Wales and the Crown Princess of
Germany. Behind the Queen came the grand-
sons, sons-in-law and sons of Her Majesty.
Then followed the Master of Horse, Keeper of
Her Majesty's privy purse, Aides de Camp to 
the Queen, Equerries to their Royal Highnesses,
etc., on horseback. The processional route
was from the Palace, up Constitution Hill,
Hyde Park corner, Piccadily, Regent Street,
Waterloo Place, Pall Mall, Lockspur Street,
Northumberland Avenue, Embankment Bridge
Street, to the west door of the Abbey. The
Ladies and officers of the Queen's household
awaited the arrivals at their door, and joined
Her Majesty's procession to the Dais. All the
leading Clerical dignataries were present, in-
cluding the Bishop of London, the Dean of 
Westminster, the Arch Bishop of York and
Canterbury. The clergy preceded the Queen,
and were followed by the Princes in their
orders; then came England's Sovereigu, with
the Master of Horse and Ministers of the
Robes following; then came the Princesses, who
rode with the Queen and their attendants,
and the remaining daughters and grand-
daughters of Her Majesty with a host of attend-
ants too numerous to mention.
	A grand march by Handel was played on
the organ by Doctor Bridge, as the procession
advanced up the nave, and the Queen took her
seat upon the Coronation Chair on the dais,
surrounded by her children and many crowned
heads and representatives of foreign nations.
On the marble slab of the altar stood the costly


[Column 1]

Communion Plate. The Golden candlesticks
held candles, but they were not lit, and be-
tween these were placed four large bunches of
white lilies, a rare decoration in Westminster
Abbey. The ladies wore morning costumes—
long dresses, but high necked, with bonnets,
and most brilliant and costly jewels. Full
dress was worn by the gentlemen. The costly,
magnificent costumes worn by the ladies, com-
bined with the showy uniforms of the Princes,
and dazzling appearauce of the Indian visitors
and Kings and Queens, who literally blazed
with jewels, all presented a spectacle never to
be forgotten by those who witnessed the impos-
ing ceremony of publicly returning thanks to
the King of Heaven for His mercy and good-
ness.
	After the guests were all seated, a Fanfare of
trumpets, by the State trumpeters, announced
the Queen's arrival to those inside. This was
the signal for every one to rise to their feet
and remain standing till the Queen was seated.
The service that had been ordered by Her
Majesty for the day was then gone through,
and at the close the Queen presented her hand
to the Princes and Princesses to kiss, and in
return gave them a motherly kiss on the cheek.
This seemed to impress the spectators very
much, such a natural and affectionate display
on the part of the Queen to her children, that
verified the truth of the statement that, "One
touch of nature makes the whole world akin."
The procession then reformed and returned by
Parliament St. to the Palace, where Her
Majesty held a reception, and in the evening
gave a grand banquet to her noble guests.
	The Queen looked very well, and was at-
tired in black and white. Her ornaments
were diamonds, and the usual orders were worn.
If any proof was required that English peoole
could be loyal, the Queen had ample oppor-
tunities of observing, and we are sure the most
exacting person could not have had more hom-
age paid; and may the remaining years of that
noble lady's life be amidst friends, and in
peacb and happiness.
	The streets were lined with people all day,
and in the evening all traffic being stopped,
the crowd was immense. The illuminations
were of a very elaborate nature. Thousands
of pound’s worth of gas was consumed that
night. The buildings that were most illumina-
ted were the Mansion House, the Bank of
England, the Royal Exchange, Devonshire
House and the Charing Cross Hotel. These
were hung with tiny colored lamps, that stood
out in strong contrast to the sombre looking
buildings they illuminated. The Crown and
V. R. were everywhere displayed, and one of
the softest and prettiest effects was the lighting
of private houses and gardens by these fairy
lamps, as they are called. Several houses
were outlined from attic to cellar with gas jets,
which was effective and brilliant. Altogether
London seemed transformed into a very desir-
able and fairy-like abode. Each one had
striven to be successful, and they were. The
next day, June 22nd, the children's fete took
place in Hyde Park, which was crowded to ex-
cess. There were 30,000 children from various
schools, and their teachers were appointed to
take care of a certain number each. A drink-
ing mug was presented to each child, and
amusements of every description were provided
for them. The mugs were manufactured by
Doulton and Lon, and on either side a portrait
of Her Majesty and the year of her accession
and the date of the present one. A little girl
of twelve summers, Miss Dunn by name, had
the honor of receiving her mug from the
hands of the Queen, who passed through the
Park on her way to Windsor;. This was pre-
sented by the Queen because, for some years,
the child had not once missed attending school
or been unpunctual. No doubt the little
maiden inwardly trembled when the Prince of

[Column 2]

Wales introduced her to the Queen, who, in the
kindest and most motherly manner, handed
her the cup, saying, "I am glad, dear child, to
give you this token in remembrance of my
Jubilee." This, no doubt, will be a memorable
incident in the child's life, and let us hope she
may receive a crown from the King of kings
hereafter; this will also encourage her compan-
ions to be diligent and study carefully, and so
gain knowledge, which means power.
	I will endeavor to write you a further ac-
count shortly.
		MARION.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel it a duty, or more as a privilege, to
pen a few of my thoughts on paper. I take
the opportunity with a thankful heart on ac-
count of the invitation extended through the
paper.
	We as a little branch of God's kingdom
upon the earth have also a little to bear with
the rest in regard to persecution. Four of our
brethren are cast into prison for conscience
sake. We all feel that it is hard to bear. One
of the four is the Superintendent of the East
Harrisville Suuday School—Levi J. Taylor—
a man whom we honor and respect, and that
we all love with pure hearts. Oh, how can
our Father in Heaven look upon such scenes!
But we know as His children humble in the
dust, calling for deliverance night and day, the
little as well as the big, the rich as well as the
poor, He can cure this wound that is so sore
and is tried so many times. Oh, Father above
all fathers, come and cure this wound of Thine
humble children, for we feel there is no one
else. Cry unto Him, ye children, and He will
soon come from His hiding place and deliver
those that love Him and keep His command-
ments, and His power shall be manifested on
the mountains to the pure, noble and brave,
and to those that have suffered persecution for
His name's sake shall He give a crown of
glory, which no one else can wear but those
that have suffered, and they will be remembered
through all eternity. Therefore, fear not, oh
ye sons and daughters of God, for endless is
the glory that awaits you if true here upon
the earth.
	O, ye mothers in Israel, for you my heart
swells, with your little costly jewels around
you given from above unto you. Mother, what
art thou? Art thou of no worth on this earth
in this age and time? Have you borne sons
and daughters in the kingdom of God? For
what purpose? Are they to be despoiled, or
destroyed by our enemies? Would you not
rather they be taught the principles of the
Gospel when around your knees, than to see
their ruin and destruction, and of no worth
to you in the eternal worlds? We as mothers
cannot afford it; they are too precious for a
mother to have them go to ruin; there is too
much love for them we own; next to the heart
of God is our love for them, O, ye mothers.
Where is that being on the earth that posseses
the love of a mother? And this love is pure;
therefore, oh ye mothers, are ye pure inasmuch
as ye possess this love; and inasmuch as ye
bring up your children unto God ye are saved,
and great is your salvation, which is waiting
for you.
	Therefore, let us be watchful, and stand like
guards in our places in the kingdom of God;
and let us never allow any wrong to be com-
mitted in our little circle, but with sharp eyes
look to the point of duties in every direction,
come life or come death, and nothing can pre-
vent the blessings of God resting upon us.
	I close with a humble prayer in my heart


for the Lord to bless all the mothers in Israel.
	Yours in the Gospel,
	ELIZABETH CHRISTOPHERSON.
Harrisville, Aug. 29, 1887.


ANNIVERSARY.

	The Primary Association of the 21st Ward
of this city held an annual meeting in the
ward meeting house, on Wednesday, August
24th, 1887, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing, "Supplication." Prayer
by Sister Ellen C. Clawson. Singing again,
"Anticipation." Minutes of last annual meet-
ing read and approved. An address suitable
for the occasion was given by Counselor Annie
Steers; Recitation. by Eva Barfoot, "The Smile
Triumphant;" Recitation, "The First Robin
Song," Lillie Papworth; Recitation, "The
Kingdom of God," Joseph Williams; Recita-
tion, Minnie Tilt; Song, "Learning," four little
girls; Recitation, "The Battle of Life," James
Woodruff; Dialogue, "Home Manufacture,"
Kate Moss and Emily Farnes; Recitation, Al-
fred Sylvester; Recitation, Sarah Gunn; Recita-
tion, Gertrude Arbuckle; Recitation, "The
Orphan Child," Deseret Dover; Recitation,
"Rowing the Boat," Emily Farnes; Song,
"Speak gently, it is better far," etc., Rosie
Davidson; Recitation, "Mind Mother," Rebecca
Williams; Recitation, James Moss; Duet, Louie
and Lena Walsh; Recitation, Bertie Williams;
Recitation, "Truth," Alfred Sylvester; Duet,
Lillie and Annie Olsen; Recitation, Walter
Williams; Recitation, "I must not tease my
mother," Ada Folger; Recitation, Belle Folger;
Recitation, four little girls, a verse; Recitation,
"Apple Time," Daisy Westwood; Recitation,
Lizzie Sherwood.
	Interesting and encouraging remarks were
made in brief by Sisters Ellen C. Clawson,
Camilla Cobb, Lydia Ann Wells, Presendia L.
Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Emma Toone,
and Counselor Herbert Foulger. Closing ad-
dress by President Mary Davis, who urged the
children to attend the conference on the 17th
of September, in the Assembly Hall. Meeting
was adjourned. Singing, "Parting Hymn."
Benediction by Counselor Eliza Schutts.
	After the close of the meeting the invited
guests, with the officers of the Association and
sisters of the ward, were ushered into the Re-
lief Society Hall adjoining, where a large
table was spread with a bounteous repast;
fruits and flowers in great profusion helped to
beautify and grace the tables. The children
were not neglected or forgotten, and each little
one was served by willing hands, and all were
satisfied and gratified. It was a day of pleasure
and we trust of profit to all gathered to com-
memorate the occasion.
	Sister Davis, and her aids and assistants, de-
serve the praise and commendation of the
parents of the ward, for the kindly care and
interest they have manifested for the little
ones since the organization of this helpful,
educational department of spiritual labor.


Mary Peabody, of Salem, became the wife
of the late Horace Mann, who had a head as
destitute of imagination as Hawthorne's was
full of it. She wrote the novel of slave life in
Cuba entitled, "Juanita," which was published
last spring, a few weeks after her lamented
death, and was the constant companion of her
sister Elizabeth, who is the original promoter
of the Kindergartens, which Mrs. Quincy
Shaw has taken under her special protection.
Sophia Peabody had the fortune to wed the
shy but powerful romancer, Nathaniel Haw-
thorne. She was equal to the situation, and
in the "Life of Hawthorne," which has been
written by his son, there is nothing more beau-
tiful than the womanly sympathy which she
supplied to the man of genius.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"SO HE BRINGETH THEM UNTO
THEIR DESIRED HAVEN."

Psalm cvii, 30.

"So!"—through storms and darkness,
		Through great waters deep,
Through the cloud whose black embraces
		Hidden sunbeams keep:
	So, He brings His chosen there
	To the Haven safe and fair!

"So!"—through fierce winds blowing,
		Through rough desert ways,
Through long nights whose dreary darkness
		Reaches o'er the days:
	So, He brings them Home at last,
	Safe from every stormy blast!

"So!"—through cares and trials, 
		Through temptations strong,
Through dead hopes, whose joyous blossoms
		Have been waited long:
	So, He brings His chosen Home,
	Nevermore to sadly roam!

"So!"—by tears and longings,
		By the spirit's strife,
By the hands outreaching vainly
		Toward this empty life:
	So, He brings them Home to share
	In His perfect "fulness" there!

"So!"—by small, slow footsteps,
		By the daily cross,
By the heart's unspoken yearning,
		By its grief and loss:
	So, He brings them Home to rest
	With the victors, crowned and blest!

"So!"—by scattered ruins,
		By sweet links unbound,
By fair blossoms all unheeded,
		Trampled on the ground:
	So, He brings them Home to Him,
	Where no cloud their joy can dim!

"So!"—oh, weary pilgrim,
		'Tis the Master's way,
And it leadeth surely, surely,
		Unto endless day!
	Doubt not, fear not—gladly go;
	He will bring thee heavenward so!

		JENNIE HARRISON.


TO MY DEAR MOTHER.

A goodly number of years have passed
Since you came to earth—Oh, they go so fast!
The days, the months and years go by
Fairly unheeded—on wings they fly;
And, when we look back, it seems so odd
To see what a curious path we've trod—
With thorns among roses, joy mixed with pain,
Gladness and sorrow, sunshine and rain—
Mingled together on every side,
None of them anxious their faces to hide.
Often it seems that of all this host
Sorrow makes her appearance the most.
She visits the lowly as well as the great,
The poor as those of high estate,
Giving us all of her cup a share,
Of which you, mother, received full fare.
You have toiled for us in days gone by,
And shown us the way to God on high;
You've watched our short and fevered breath,
When it seemed we must part by the hand of death;
You have knelt by our bed in silent prayer,
And asked of God, He our lives would spare.
When toils are named we can think of none
Which by our mother have not been done.

And now we wish that your future years
May be less bestrewn with cares and tears;
That all your sorrows may be past,
And happy years may crown your last;
That long with us you may yet remain,
Oft your wise counsel to give again.
May you at last be crowned above,
To dwell with those who rule in love;
And that we all may meet you there,
Shall be our constant, earnest prayer.

		ANNIE.
Fairview, Aug. 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

CHARITY. 

	We are taught that "Charity covereth a mul-
titude of sins." Very many are so near-sighted
as to believe that when the Apostle spoke of
charity, he meant simply the giving away a
small portion of our goods, the loss of which
would never be felt by ourselves or families.
Having given a cold dinner now and then to
tramps, and perhaps dropped a twenty-five
cent piece into the poor-box once or twice in
the course of a year, the average church mem-
ber feels satisfied his charities have been large
enough to cover what few small sins he may
feel inclined to commit. Then there are others
who are very liberal as far as giving money is
concerned, who are not possessed of the faint-
est spark of true charity in their souls. There
are men and women who give simply that their
names may be seen and spoken of by others as
heading the list of those who give large sub-
scriptions to charitable objects. They are anx-
ious to be spoken of as charitable, large-
hearted persons, and for that reason often give
large sums of money, which is, in reality, often
badly needed in the homes of these same char-
itable persons. Very often this class of givers
receive their full reward when their names, to-
gether with the large amount they have sub-
scribed, appear in some one or other of the
religious papers for which most of their more
fashionable or wealthy friends subscribe.
	Why not? The Pharisees had a similar re-
ward.  It is possible to give very liberally, even 
beyond our means, and still not be possessed of
true charity, for St. Paul has said, "Though I
bestow my goods to feed the poor;  though I 
give my body to be burned, yet have not char-
ity, it profiteth nothing."
	The God who measures our charities is able
to look beyond the action to the motive which
first prompted that action.  In his eye the
widow's mite counted for much, simply because
it was given freely;  not because she expected to
have praise from her neighbor, but through
the desire to do all the good that lay in her 
power to those who were less favored than her-
self.
	The charity of which the Apostle spoke
meant more than the giving of money, food,
or clothing. Giving our goods is only one way
of showing that we possess charity. To me it
seems that generous sympathy, freely expressed
in time of sickness or trouble, where no mate-
rial help is needed, will be accounted to us for
charity. 
	In my observation of people I have found
very little of "The charity that thinketh no
evil." I have met very few who were willing
to credit their neighbor with right motives, al-
though his actions might not seem in accord-
ance with his profession. People generally are
too willing to judge others from their own stan-
dard of right and wrong, forgetting that no two 
persons view an action from the same moral
standpoint.
	A woman may belong to a dozen charitable
societies for the poor, yet, if she can see very
little that is good in her neighbor's actions; if
she is continually on the watch for something
in that neighbor's manner of life or dress with
which to find fault, surely she is not possessed
of the "Charity that is kind."
	Why is it that women have so little charity
for one another? Let a woman make one false
step in life, and her whole sex at once forsakes
her. Sisters, schoolmates, intimate friends alike
ignore her. Not one of all her intimate friends
will stretch out a hand to lift her up to the
moral plane from which she has fallen. Not
they.  They are all too busy, perhaps, in or-
ganizing a society to send the Gospel to the
heathen in Central Africa, to waste thought or
sympathy on a fallen sister at home. They
feel that there is more respectability in organ-
ized effort. Then, too, it is very gratifying to

[Column 2]

human vanity to see one's name often in print
in connection with some kind of gospel society,
thus giving others the impression that one is
very charitable.
	It would not be considered at all proper,
even in our enlightened Gospel land, for the
most charitably inclined sister to be seen speak-
ing to one of these fallen ones. Society, even
if it were sure that she were trying to reclaim
the lost one, would turn its back on the woman
who would dare thus to lower herself. All she
can do, and retain her position in that wonder-
ful organization called "Society," is to attend,
at stated periods, the meetings of charitable
societies, and give liberally of her money to
Christianize heathen women in Central Africa, 
or India, or some other far-away country—and
from which, in many instances, they never re-
ceive any benefit—while perhaps more than a
dozen women in the same block in which this
charitable woman lives are perishing, both
body and soul, their remorseful and agonizing
cry to be saved remaining unheeded and unno-
ticed because no Christian woman can be found
who will take them by the hand and help
them to forsake their old life, and find honor-
able, respectable employment. In thus denying
to fallen women all means of returning to a
better life, society has made a fearful mistake;
assumes to be more just than Christ Himself,
who commanded the sinner to sin no more;
and, until a broader charity is manifested, and
something more is done by way of reclaiming
the fallen at home, would it not be just as con-
sistent, and much more modest, to say less about
our "Charitable Societies for Converting the
Heathen."—Selected.
		EMMA M. MYERS.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	H. W. Mabie is writing the "authorized" life
of Helen Hunt Jackson.
	The Record nominates for president of
Wellesley College, to succeed Miss Freeman,
Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland.
	Mrs. Crawford, Paris correspondent of the
London Daily News and Truth, is said to earn
$10,000 a year by her pen.
	The Queen laid the foundation-stone of the
imperial Institute Building in London re-
cently. Twenty thousand persons were pre-
sent.
	The Woman's Congress, of which Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe is president, will hold its next
meeting in New York City, Oct. 26, 27
and 28.
	The novelist Eugenie John, better known as
E. Marlitt, author of "The Old Mam'zelle's
Secret," died at Arnstadt, her native town, at
the age of sixty-two.
	Our condition never satisfies us; the prssent
is always the worst. Though Jupiter should
grant his request to each, we should continue
to importune him.—Fontaine.
	Each girl in Wellesley College performs
forty-five minutes' work each day. There are
three huudred girls, and every girl is trained
to do one kind of work quickly and well.
	At the late election in Texas, Galveston's
finest women were at the polls distributing bal-
lots. They also had booths, from which they
dispensed refreshments. The Texas women
are in earnest and ought to be allowed to vote.
	An International Council of Women, called
by the National Woman Suffrage Association,
will be held in Washington, D. C., opening
March 25, closing April 1. 1888, to commemor-
ote the Woman's Rights Convention held in
Seneca Falls, N. Y., in 1848.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	Behold, we count them happy who endure.—JAMES
v, II.

"Well, to suffer is divine;
Pass the watchword down the line,
	Pass the countersign, "Endure!"
Not to him, who rashly dares,
But to him, who nobly bears.
	Is the victor's garland sure."

	These significant lines, how much truth they
contain, and how intensely the Latter-day Saints
can appreciate such sentiments. The quotation,
"Behold, we count them happy who endure," in-
deed how much these few words imply. We see a
brother or a sister who has patiently and nobly
borne suffering, privation, hardship and bitter
experiences, laid peacefully away in the silent
grave, and we do indeed count them happy; they
have endured to the end of their days, and have
gone to a better and higher sphere; they have
fought the good fight and gained the victory, not-
withstanding all the doubts, trials and temptations
they had to encounter.
	To achieve some great public good, to accom-
plish some grand purpose in life is praiseworthy
and ennobling; to add to the happiness of others,
or to help them to rise in the scale of being, to in-
crease in knowledge and intelligence above one's
contemporaries by diligence and application, all
these are laudable ambitions, and may be counted
worthy objects for which to have lived and worked
and gained success; but yet one or all of these
may be done, and even well done; and after,all the
needful courage may fail, doubts may multiply,
friends may prove false, troubles may hedge one
round about, jealousies may creep in unawares,
and the firm resolve, the fixed determination may
waver, and little by little one may give way, with-
out scarce knowing or realizing the failing strength
of endurance, until the hopes and ambitions that
animated the once happy man or woman, are lost
sight of; the spirit that buoyed up the drooping
heart in other times of trial has departed, and the
unconscious one may be drifting away alone, with
a mind darkened and disconsolate. If to all such
could come in forcible language the words of
Scripture, "The race is not to the swift nor the
battle to the strong, but to him who endureth,"
it might help many a weary traveler on the high,
way of life.
	The only sure and steadfast anchor to the hu-
man soul is the Spirit of God, and how can one
always be in possession of that spirit? By being
obedient to all the commandments given, so far as
it is possible for poor frail humanity; by keeping
in view at all times the pattern given by the Savior,
"To do unto others as we would wish them to do
unto us," by loving our neighbor as ourself, and
striving to overcome evil with good from morning
till evening, and evening until morning,dedicating
ourselves anew to God each day of our lives, and
helping our brother or our sister, as occasion or
opportunity offers, not only in deeds of truly
Christian charity and benevolence, but in words of

[Column 2]

kindness, and in a spirit of meekness, and with a
sincere desire to bless and comfort.
	The prophecies of ancient and modern times
foretell the falling away of many, and indeed there
have been many zealous, devoted members of the
Church who have fallen out by the wayside from
various causes. This apostacy from time to time
causes all thoughtful people to inquire into their
own condition, and examine their own hearts; not
that one should wait for examples or reminders of
this kind, but it is natural, when all is serene and
prosperous, to float along carelessly with the tide,
but when one or more chance by accident, or lack
of caution, to go beyond their depth, or run
against a snag that detains or upsets them, those
who are in the same stream or channel naturally
take warning and seek to avoid the breakers
against which they have been dashed, or the shoal
where they have foundered.
	We often hear these days spoken of as "the
days of trial," "the test is coming," and similar
sayings, but are not, and were not the people of
God in all ages tried, and "tried as by fire?" Every
reader of sacred history knows this to be the case.
This may be a dark time; to those who see no pur-
pose in it, it must be so; but the light of the Gos-
pel, the testimony that this is indeed the work of
God, should be ever-present, or there is danger of
stumbling. What the Latter-day Saint wants to
look for is light, not darkness, nor that which will
tend to darkness, but if there is only a little light,
only a ray of hope, as it were, in the hour of bitter
trial, cherish that little, and it will grow brighter
and brighter. One should not dread the trials too
much; the promises of the Savior are always con-
soling, always new; just as fresh and good to-day
as they were two thousand years ago. The in-
spired poet said:

When thro' the deep waters I call thee to go.
The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow."

	Sorrows and trials are often sanctified to those
who "pass under the rod," if they are endured
with fortitude and resignation to the divine will.
Christ Himself is spoken of as a "man of sorrow,
and acquainted with grief." Then if one wants to
be like unto Him he must drink the bitter cup.
Has not the Lord said He would have a tried peo-
ple? Then what can the Latter-day Saints ex-
pect? To weather the storm however fierce the
gale; if they have the courage to stand firm and
maintain their integrity they will live to see the
clouds break away,and a brighter light shine forth
from the darkness, or if they die in defense of the
right it will be well with them.

	"The darkest day,
(Live till to-morrow) will have passed away."

	Do not brood over the dark fofbodings, or try to
steady the ark of the covenant, but gather up
courage and strength equal to the greatest occasion.
The kingdom of God has been established never
more to be thrown down, or given to another peo-
ple. Knowing this, let each one be sure of him-
self by trusting in God and keeping His Spirit,
and all will be well with those who keep on the
whole armor of faith, and those who endure unto
the end will be saved, and we shall count them
happy indeed.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Juab Stake of Zion will be held in the
Nephi meeting house, on the 23rd of September.
The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion and Primary Association on the 24th of the
same month, the day following.
	THE Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are hereby
officially notified to prepare semi-annual Stake re-
ports, carefully, upon printed blanks, and forward
them as early as the 15th of September, that a
complete and satisfactory report may be made to


the general conference in October. Direct the 
reports to Miss Mary E. Cook, 323 E., Third
South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
are hereby officially notified to prepare semi-an-
nual Stake reports, and forward them directed to
Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Deseret Hospital, Salt
Lake City, Utah. All reports should be in the
hands of Dr. Pratt as early as September 20th, in
order that she may have sufficient time to prepare
the general report for the October Conference.
	THE Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms in this City, on the 15th of this
month (September) commencing at 10 a.m. and 2
p.m. It is hoped by the President and officers of
the Relief Society of this Stake that there will be
a fair representation from each organization in
in the county. As it is the time for written reports,
and as the secretaries have been so often reminded
to send the reports punctually to the secretary as
early as the 5th of the month, there will of course
be no failure in that respect. All those interested
in the Relief Society and its benevolent work are
cordially invited to attend.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of this Stake
will be held on Friday, the 16th, at the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2
p.m., and it is earnestly desired there should be a
good representation from all the several Associa-
tions in the County. Brethren and sisters inter-
ested in the work of improvement mentally, moral-
ly and spiritually of the young people of Zion,
are invited to attend the meetings of the confer-
ence.
	THE Primary Associations of this Stake will
hold their conference on Saturday, the 17th inst.,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, commencing at
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. It is expected there will be
an interesting programme and exercises by the
children, and it is hoped that each Association
in the county will be represented, and a large
number of children with the presidents and officers
from the several wards in the city. The spiritual
development and training of the little ones is cer-
tainly an important work, and those who have
charge of these Associations should receive en-
couragement from the parents in their labor of
love and duty.


HON. A. A. SARGENT.

	Hon. A. A. Sargent, ex U. S. Senator from
California, and since minister to Berlin, whose
death was announced recently in the papers, was
a friend and advocate of woman's suffrage, and
also a firm believer in justice and rights for all,
even "Mormons."
	His wife showed great kindness and courtesy to
the "Mormon" women who attended the Eleventh
Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A. in 1879, of
which she was at that time one of the officers, and
is a most interesting women, and an active worker
in the suffrage and in other ways for the advance-
ment of women. Mr. and Mrs. Sargent have, we
are told, spoken many times in favor of our peo-
ple when an opportunity offered, which our people
can fully appreciate, as it is the custom of the
world at large to denounce Mormons. Those who
are free from prejudice are the exception.
	We sincerely sympathize with Mrs. Sargent in
her great loss. When such men die there is cause
for sorrow, for the world needs such honest and
upright men to fill positions of honor and trust in
the government.
	The following letter from Senator Sargent to
Miss Anthony will clearly demonstrate his stand-
ing in the woman suffrage movement:
	"1 regret that the necessity to proceed at once to
California will deprive me of the pleasure of at-


tending your convention of July 19th, the anniver-
sary of the spirited declaration of rights put forth
thirty years ago by some of the noblest and most
enlightened women of America. Woman's rights
have made rapid strides since that day in juster
legislation, in widened spheres of improvement,
and in the gradual, but certain recognition by large
numbers of citizens of the justice and policy of
extending the elective franchise to women. It is
now very generally conceded that the time is
rapidly approaching when women will vote. The
friends of the movement have faith in the result,
and its enemies generally admit it. Courage and
work will hasten the day. The worst difficulties
have already been overcome. The movement has
passed the stage of ridicule, and even that of abuse,
and has entered that of intelligent discussion, its
worst adversaries treating it with respect. You
are so familiar with all the arguments in favor of
this great reform, that I will not attempt to state
them; but I wish to say, that as an observer of
public events, it is my deliberate judgment that
your time is near at hand. There are vastly more
men and women in the United States now, who
believe that wemen should have the right to vote,
than there were in 1848 who believed the slave
should be freed. This is a government of opinions,
and the growing opinion will be irresistible.
	"Respectfully yours,
 		A. A. SARGENT."

	This letter was written in 1878, but Senator Sar-
gent has ever since advocated these same liberal
views. He would not, we are confident, have
voted to have the suffrage taken from the women
of Utah, for he believed in the progress of women,
not in hindrances put in the way.
	Such men should be remembered with gratitude;
they have enriched the world by living in it, and
their deeds will live lifter them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HOW TO BECOME USEFUL IN LIFE.

	How very many different ways there are of be-
ing useful, but to become most so, I can scarcely
determine.
	There is a great diversity of opinions upon this
subject. Many very talanted persons, who possess
superior intelligence and intellect, devote them-
selves, almost exclusively, to the pursuit of science,
perhaps some particular branch, and then most
generally give the world the benefit of their inves-
tigations. Perhaps it has been a life-work; then
the whole world is the gainer, consequently we
may say such have really led lives of true useful-
ness.
	There is another class who aim to be great
statesmen and politicians, and exert all the energies
they possess to attain a complete and thorough
knowledge of how best to govern and control the
affairs of state. This class, if they really desire
the interests of the people and seek to make the
condition of their fellow men better, must assuredly
rank among the useful of mankind.
	Then again there is the philanthropist, who, per-
haps, denies himself that which would be pleasant
and agreeable to him, that he may materially bene-
fit others. He tries by every means in his power
to improve the social condition of his fellow men,
and to elevate them in the scale of being. He
seeks to raise up those who are bowed down, to
alleviate the suffering, to ameliorate the condition
of the captive, and in short, we must acknowledge
that his life is to all within his reach, useful and
beneficial.
	Others again live only to be useful in the service
of the Lord, caring little for the usages of society;
they seek not the pride of the world, or the perish-
able things which pertain thereto, but labor to
save the souls of the children of men; to teach the
principles of salvation according to their peculiar
ideas or religious beliefs. They, too, may be ac-
counted useful.

[Column 2]

	There is still another class of useful men and
women I will mention, who exercise their brains
to invent all the several branches of mechanism,
some one thing and some another. These in-
ventors, if successful, are not only benefactors to
the age in which they live, but in many instances
to succeeding generations, and thus their names
are held in honorable remembrance. But to men-
tion each and every class separately would occupy
too much time. There is an endless variety of
ways in which to be useful both to ourselves and
others, but which is the best or most successful
way for each depends more or less on surrounding
circumstances, and yet we may all arrive at some
general conclusions.
	But perhaps you will say I have particularly al-
luded to men. That is true; men seem to take
precedence in all these things, and yet there have
been women who have filled prominent positions
with as much dignity and credit to themselves as
men. Women have ruled over nations, and have
been honored in their stations, and have conferred
as great benefits upon their subjects, and given
quite as much satisfaction (and in some instances
more) as men, and women have made themselves
of great use to the world, or the age in which they
lived. But I will try to come down to the subject
as relates to myself. I have spent considerable
time, and I hope some of it in preparing to make
myself useful to others, but as yet, comparatively,
I do not seem to have accomplished much, still I
have not been indolent; my time has been almost
entirely occupied, and I reflect a great deal how
to make the best use of it possible.
	There are a multitude of little trifles performed
every day, that seem nothing, and yet each of
these are of use; their worth should be estimated
by their numbers, not by their magnitude.
	I cannot satisfy myself on this subject, but will
sum up my ideas thus: The one who helps most
to do good to others, lives most truly a life of use-
fulness.
		EMMA WELLS.
January, 1874.


[Column 1]

IMPROVEMENT.

	First we must remember to do unto all people
as we would they should do unto us. Love our
enemies, and do good to them that despitefully
use us. Some of the sayings of our enemies are
too true to a great extent. One of their general
remarks is that the greater portion of our young
people can not tell why they are Latter-day Saints.
This should not be, for the time will soon come,
when all those who do not know this to be the
true Church of Christ, will cease to be members
of this Church, and thus become like seed sown
on stony ground, which thrived for awhile and
then died out. First we should live each day so
as to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, to guide and
direct us. Secondly, we should study the scrip-
tures, more especially the Old and New Testa-
ments, so we will be thoroughly posted on the
principles of the Gospel, and able, at any time, to
defend the same. Unless we do so every time an
opportunity presents itself, we will be condemned
for neglect of duty; and it would have been better
had we never been connected with the Church.
	A few years hence our parents will have passed
from this stage of action, and we in their place
will have to take hold of this Kingdom with its
mighty labors and problems and roll it on. And
also the time is not far distant when we will be
the only people who will sustain the constitution
of the government under which we live, which
guarantees to every person the right to worship
God according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, and freedom, liberty and equal rights to
all; of which the present rulers of that govern-
ment are striving and, to a great exteut, depriving
us. And thus unawares fullfilling the prophecies
predicted by Joseph Smith as well as many pro-
phets of old.

[Column 2]

	Now in view of the great work and mighty
problems which this kingdom and the govern-
ment under which we live comprise, each young
person should ask himself the question: am I
better fitted for this great work than my parents
or the rulers of the day? Worldly prosperity alone
will not fit us, nor mere book learning endow us
for the great labor that awaits us; but a faithful
performance of every duty and a gradual advance-
ment upon all true principles connected with the
government upon the earth. This Gospel will
fit us for this great labor. We have no time to
idle away, until we have fully posted ourselves
with the principles of the Gospel.
	There is so much to be done, so many duties to
perform. We should attend Sabbath School
regularly, and every other meeting we possibly
can, especially the Improvement Association, and
feel willing to perform our parts in the programme.
I should be pleased to note a greater interest
among the young in these meetings, a greater de-
sire to improve themselves. I think the officers
more especially should attend and feel deeply
interested in this great work.
	We should also read all the good books we can.
We can then say with Sir Wm. Wallace: "I am
sure to converse with none but wise men, but
abroad it is impossible for me to avoid the society
of fools." And as Sir John Herschel, calling good
books the best society in every period of history:
"Were I to pray for a taste which should stand me
instead under every variety of circumstances and
be a source of happiness and cheerfulness through
life and shield against the ills, however things
might go amiss, and the world frown upon me, it
would be a taste for reading good books." By
doing this you are placed in the best society, the
wisest, wittiest, tenderest, bravest and the purest
characters that have adorned humanity. One can-
not wonder that Tenelan said: "If the crowns of
all the kingdoms of the empire were laid at my
feet in exchange for my books and my love for
reading, I would spurn them all;" or that the
Historian, Gibbon, wrote: "A taste for books is
the glory and pleasure of my life. I would not
exchange it for the glory of the Indies." All these
words of wise readers show that they who rightly
cultivate the reading habit, can not only have the
best society and friends always at hand, but at
length can say with all modesty, if he reads right
and remembers well. My mind to me a kingdom is.
	May we ever be found faithful to the cause of
truth, is the prayer and desire of a brother.
		R. F. BARR.
Nephi, March 26, 1887.


BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. MARY ANN
YOUNG.

	Mrs. Mary Ann Young, wife of President
Brigham Young, was the daughter of James
W. Angell and Phebe Morton Angell. Her
father was born in Smithfield, Rhode Island,
Oct. 15th, 1776, and her mother in or near
Utica, New York, March 28th, 1786. Their
daughter Mary Ann, some items of whose his-
tory we are about to give, was born June 8th,
1803, at Seneca, Ontario Co., New York. Both
parents were of a religious nature, and the
teachings and early training of Mrs. Young
were calculated to develop the most sublime
and devotional tendencies. Her father was a
great reader, particularly of the Scriptures, and
was a man of good understanding. Her mother
too, was very fond of reading and explaining
the Scriptures to her children, and especially
the words of the Savior. Mrs. Young says,
when she first commenced attending Sunday
School, the first text she learned to repeat was,
"When thou prayest, pray not as the Pharisee
and hypocrit, but enter into thy closet and
shut thy door." This text was very strongly
impressed upon her mind, and the feeling it


[Column 1]

implanted was conducive to secret prayer. She
once asked her mother why the first books of
the New Testament were so much alike; this
was when she was a very little girl. Her
mother replied, to make the testimony stronger,
that the testimony of three or four witnesses
substantiated the truth of the statement. Such
early instructions were the foundation of re-
ligious principles, proving the power of thus
disciplining the mind by a simple process in
early life into a religious channel of thought
and feeling.
	Mrs. Young's parents, while she was a child,
removed to Providence, Rhode Island; and it
was in that city she grew to womanhood. She
was naturally of a devotional nature, fond of
reading the Bible, especially the prophecies
and sayings of the Savior. At an age when
she felt competent to decide upon religious
matters, she united with the Free Will Bap-
tist Church in Providence, because of the be-
lief in baptism by immersion, and because they
extended the right hand of fellowship to all
the professed followers of Christ. Mrs. Young's
parentswere both members of the same de-
nomination. She was for many years a regular
and efficient teacher in the Sunday School of
that church; and this spiritual training fitted
her better for the work which afterwards de-
volved upon her in this Church and kingdom.
	She heard casually of the Book of Mormon,
and being intensely interested in religious sub-
jects obtained a copy for examination. She
testifies that when she took the Book of Mor-
mon in her hands, the Spirit bore witness of
its truth, and she could never afterwards doubt
its divine origin. Her parents were then visit-
ing friends in the State of New York. Miss
Angell commenced writing letters to them con-
cerning this Gospel. Thus her parents and
their friends were led to investigate Mormon-
ism. She soon after went to the State of New
York, where she had the privilege of hearing
the Mormon Elders proclaim those sacred
truths which she had already believed for more
than two years before she was baptized by
Elder John P. Greene, brother-in-law to Brig-
ham Young.
	Before her parents were ready, Miss Angell
emigrated to Kirtland, Ohio, at that time the
gathering place of the Saints. Our readers
will readily perceive by the train of incidents
related, that Miss Angell was a young woman
of more than ordinary strength of character,
and well calculated to stand as a helpmeet to
one who was destined to lead the hosts of Israel
in the last days.
	In Kirtland Miss Angell became acquainted
with Brigham Young, who was at that time
intimately associated with Joseph Smith, and
an earnest and zealous preacher. She had
always been exceedingly particular in receiv-
ing attentions from gentlemen, and had de-
cided that she would never become a wife un-
less she could feel assured that the one whom
she would choose for a life companion would
be a man of God. Mr. Young had been be-
reaved of his wife, and was left with two little
motherless girls, for whom he naturally felt
anxious to obtain a mother, as well as a wife
and companion for himself. Joseph, the
Prophet, had called Brigham Young to the
ministry, and just at that time, through the
dispensations of a watchful Providence, he was
guided and directed (no doubt) in choosing for
his bosom friend one who possessed all those
amiable and generous traits of character which
make woman motherly in her nature before
she becomes a mother to her own offspring;
also those sublime and heroic elements that in-
spire to courage and devotion to the Diety, that
help woman to stand firm in the hours and
times of the strongest temptations.
	Brigham Young and Mary Ann Angell were
married in Kirtland in the beginning of the
year 1834. Mr. Young's eldest girl, Elizabeth,

[Column 2]

was then in her ninth year, and Vilate, the
youngest, in her fourth, but Vilate being a
very delicate, sickly child, required the most
tender and constant care.
	The testimony of these two women, reared
to womanhood by Mrs. Young, is, that she was
a true mother to them in every sense of the
word, ever bestowing upon them the truest
affection, and manifesting for them the earnest
solicitude which characterizes the mother
whose heart is in her labor of love.
	Mrs. Young subsequently became the mother
of six children, three sons and three daughters,
all arriving at maturity except one (named
Mary) twin sister of Brigham Young Jun.,
now Brigham Young, one of the Quorum of
the Twelve. This little girl died in Nauvoo at
at the age of seven years.
	At the time of the dedication of the Kirt-
land Temple there were many powerful mani-
festations. Mrs. Young says one evening her
husband came home very late to his supper,
and she inquired the cause. He replied, "The
upper part of the Temple was illuminated, and
I have been watching my friends." On hear-
ing this peculiar remark, Mrs. Young said,
"Where were they? Did you converse with
them?" He replied, "The brethren who had
been ministering in the Temple had been quietly
observing personages passing about in the upper
portion of the building." There were many
similiar testimonies borne of these wonderful
manifestations of the power of God at that
time.
	Persecution raged in Kirtland soon after the
Temple had been dedicated, and the spirit of
apostacy was rife, even among the Twelve, and
ran through all the quorums of the Church.
Mr. Young being one of the most forward and
active in assisting the Prophet Joseph to dis-
pose of these difficulties, was bitterly perse-
cuted in assisting the Prophet Joseph to dis-
pose of these difficulties, was bitterly perse-
cuted, and on the 22nd of Dec. 1836, on a very
cold stormy night, with jnst one man for a
traveling companion, Mr. Young fled for his
life from the hands of his enemies, and from
his home, commending to God and to heaven
his wife and five helpless children. Mrs.
Young had twin babes, and her eldest son,
Joseph A. Young, well known since to this
people as a man of stern integrity and unusual
business capacity. She was left alone to strug-
gle as best she could under the complication of
adverse circumstances surrounding her, relying
upon God, in whom she ever implicitly trusted,
to carry her safely through all the difficulties
and trials which beset her way. She suffered
from the depredations of those who were filled
with the spirit of persecution, who had some
of them been before time associated with the
Saints, but had fallen away. The mob would
come to her house, and, professing to believe
her husband was hid up there, frighten her until
her nervous system became completely broken
and shattered. In consequence of the hard-
ships, frights and exposure to which she was
subjected, a quick consumption set in, which
seemed likely to prove fatal. The following
spring Mrs. Young left Kirtland with five
small children, alone, to join her husband in
Missouri. She traveled the first hundred miles
to Wellsville by private conveyance, and the
remainder of the journey in steamboats to
Richmond, Missouri. Worn out with travel
and the fatigue of having the sole care of
her children, when her husband met her he
was so astonished and shocked at the change
in her appearance, that his exclamation was,
"You look as if you were almost in your
grave."
	But in Missouri the Saints were not allowed
to rest; the spirit of mobocracy raged in the
hearts of the inhabitants, and the Saints were
driven from their homes in the middle of a
severe winter. Many of the brethren and sis-
ters were obliged to leave on foot, having no
other way of traveling, their footprints not un-

[Column 3]

frequently marked with blood upon the frozen
ground and ice. Mr. Young having charge,
in consequence of Joseph the Prophet being at
that time in prison, with such teams as could
be procured, would move forward, and, seeking
some temporary place of shelter for his wife
and little ones, would leave Mrs. Young to
take care of herself and family, and return
with such assistance as he could get, and gather
up the poorer and more destitute of the brethren
and sisters; also the widows and helpless orphans
of those who had fallen victims at the hands of
the cruel mob, and help them forward upon
their journey. Thus it transpired that during
the short interval of three months Mrs. Young
kept house in eleven different places, previous
to arriving at the place of destination. She
being a woman of great firmness of character,
as well as strong and powerful faith, was
qualified not only to take charge of her own
household, but to render much wise and judici-
ous assistance in helping her husband to dis-
charge the great responsibilities that even then
rested upon him as a leader during the time of
the Prophet's persecution and imprisonment.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN OF INDIA.

	When a Hindoo girl is born, there is no re-
joicing in the house; often there is actual
sorrow. She must be married before she is
ten years of age, or her father is disgraced.
When she is married, he must give a large
dower with her, and if he is a poor man he
gets hopelessly in debt in order to do this.
He borrows money at an exorbitant rate of in-
terest, and is ever after at the mercy of the
saw-car or money lender.
	When a son marries, he brings his wife and
her dower home to his father's house, and the
father is made richer thereby. But the
daughter brings nothing into the house; she
takes away, and the father is made poorer.
This is the great reason why the girl baby is
not welcome. But more than this, females are
of no importance, either in this world or the
next. They are classed that outcasts. It is
degrading to the Hindoo Shastras to teach
women and outcasts.
	In the Bhagawad Gita, the poet represents
Krishna as saying: "Even those who are born
in sin—even women, Vaishyas and Sudras—
take the highest path if they have recourse to
me. How much more, then, sacred Brahmans
and pious Kshatryas."
	A woman's future depends entirely upon her
husband, and her chief and only aim is to in-
sure his salvation, in the hope that through
him she may be saved eventually;  that in one
of the succeeding births, she may be born a
man instead of a cat or rat, as she has been
taught to expect if she does not make herself
her husband's slave. She must cook his food,
so that he will run no risk of being poisoned.
No woman would poison her husband, and
thus become a widow. To be a widow is the
greatest calamity that can befall a woman, and
is what she most dreads. She cooks his food
but can never eat with him, or before he has
eaten. His sons may eat with him, but not
the wife or daughters. A woman who eats be-
fore her husband is turned into a bat.
	A Hindoo man is anxious to have sons be-
cause no one but a son can light the funeral
pile and perform the other funeral ceremonies
for the father. If no son is born to him, he
must adopt one. A man who has never mar-
ried cannot be cremated. He is tied up in a
blanket and slung on a pole like a dog, then
carried to his grave by two coolies, where he
is buried without coffin or shroud.
	In some castes, if a woman has not borne a
son by the time she is twenty-eight years old,
the law allows the husband to take another
wife. If a woman loses her eye-sight, or from


[Column 1]

any other cause is unable to cook her hus-
band's food, he at once brings home another
wife.  
	The average age of Hindoo girls when mar-
ried is about seven years, but they are be-
trothed much younger than that, sometimes at
two months. According to Hindoo law this
betrothal is a legal marriage, and if the be-
trothed husband dies, the little girl is a widow. 
If she belongs to a high caste, she must remain
a widow to the end of her life. Her head is
shaved in the presence of a jeering multitude;
her jewels are taken away from her; she is for-
bidden to wear the choli or jacket, so must go
through life with naked arms and shoulders. 
She must be the drudge and slave of the
household, and no indignity or abuse is too
great to be heaped upon her. She is told that
she is as much the guilty cause of her hus-
band's death as though she had murdered him. 
This even when she is too young to know what
a husband means. At the funeral she must
walk at least two hundred feet behind the other
women, so that her shadow may not fall upon
them and they too become widows. Her own
mother dare not speak kindly to her, even
though she herself may be a widow, lest per-
chance the gods should overhear, or the by-
standers see that she pities the child. She can
only eat one meal a day, and must wholly
fast one day in each week, no matter how feeble
may be her health. At stated times she must
fast for several days together. Otherwise she
loses "caste" and forfeits the respect and care
of her family. She must not be taught to
read or receive any instruction whatever. One
of the widows writes:
	"The English have abolished suttee, but
neither the English or the angels know what
goes on in our homes. The only difference for
us since suttee was abolished is that we then
died quickly if cruelly, but now we die all our
lives in lingering pain. While our husbands
live we are their slaves; when they die we are
still worse off. They have all they wish here,
and promises for the life to come, but for us
there is nothing."
	The theory, as enunciated by the ancient law-
maker "Menu," is that "a wife ascends to hea-
ven if, after the decease of her lord she de-
votes herself to pious austerity; but a widow
who slights her husband by marrying again
brings disgrace on herself here below, and
shall be excluded from the seat of her lord."
He directs that she shall emaciate her body by
living on roots and fruits, "but let her not, 
when her lord is deceased, even pronounce the
name of another man. Let her continue till
death, performing harsh duties, avoiding every
pleasure and cheerfully practicing the incom-
parable rules which have been followed by such
women as were devoted to only one husband."
All over India are seen little tomb-like struc-
tures, bearing a certain symbol. These show
that widows have been burned there with their
dead husbands. Since the government abol-
ished suttee, no widows have been burned
alive, except occasionally in native states be-
yond the reach of British jurisdiction. This
happened in Nipaul a few years ago, when the
prime minister died, several of his widows be-
ing victims to the cruel custom. According to
the last census, there are 21,000,000 widows in
India, half of whom have never been wives.
	Many Hindoo mothers have so much dread
of their daughters' becoming widows that they
marry them to the bael tree, which is said never
to die.  If the tree does not die, the girls of
course cannot become widows. Again, in some
castes the reverse of this is practiced. When
a father cannot find a suitable husband for his
daughter, he marries her to a flower pot. Then
he breaks the pot and the girl is a widow and
he is saved from disgrace. Many girls are
married to the gods of the temples.
	It is never said of a young wife that she is
taken to her husband's house, but to her
mother-in-law, which is done when she is ten
or eleven years old. Previous to this she has
remained in her father's house, and there is a 
most trying scene when she is separated from
her mother. The air is filled with sobs and
cries and groans from both persons. The little
girl now becomes an abject slave to her mother-
in-law, and she may not speak in her presence
without permission. She must do the hardest
part of the family work—the grinding of the
grain, carrying of the water, etc., and what-
ever else the mother-in-law chooses to put upon
her young shoulders. Until she has a son of
her own, she has no authority or place in the
house. After this she is treated with some
degree of respect, but she has no individuality.  
She is henceforth known as "the mother of
Rama," or whatever his name may be. One
would suppose that after her own hard experi-
ence as a daughter-in-law, she would treat her
own son's wife differently, but she will not. 
She will domineer over her, and treat her just
as she has been treated. This is her revenge. 
A Hindoo woman is forbidden to pronounce
her husband's name. She speaks of him as
they, the plural number being considered more
respectful. She also addresses him in the
plural number, but he is always careful to ad-
dress her and the children alike—in the singu-
lar. 
	A dozen years ago no Hindoo gentleman
dared appear in public with his wife. If they
were to go to the same place, they went in
separate carriages, his a few rods in advance of
hers. But now, in the large cities, they go out
together, both walking and driving. This is
largely due to European influences, and to the
"Brahmo Samaj," the members of which take
their wives and daughters everywhere. Now, 
the orthodox Hindoos are following their ex-
ample to some extent. 
	There is a small "widow re-marriage" society
in Bombay, the members of which pledge
themselves to do all in their power to encourage
widowers to take widows for wives, instead of
little girls, as is the usual custom. One mem-
ber of this society has had a dozen of these
marriage ceremonies performed in his own
house, he bearing the expense of the wedding
festivities. There is another such society in
Gujeral, and one in Rajamundry and Madras,
so there is a gleam of hope for the widows.
When a married woman dies, she is carried to
the burning-ground in her richest dress and
jewels, but a widow is carried in the plain dress
which she wore during her widowhood. It
would be unseemly for her to appear before
her husband in another world with jewelry and
fine clothes. It would appear as though she
fine clothes. It would appear as though she
had not cared for his death. A Brahman
woman who dies before her husband, will have
a ceremony performed in her memory, as will
be seen by the following letter by a man to ex-
cuse his absence from work: 
	"Respectable Sir;—This being the hospitably
auspicious day on which all the Brahmans
whose parental mothers did not die the death
of a widow, that is who died before their hus-
band's death, are immutably required to make
perform an annual ceremony in their honor.
For this necessity reason, I am compulsorily
unable to attend to my office duties at the
punctual moment."
	Hearth and Hall.
		S. F. NORRIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYDE PARK PRIMARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The eighth annual meeting of the Primary
Association of Hyde Park, Cache County, was
held on Saturday, July 9th. Sister Emma
Pike, of the Stake Presidency, was present.


A programme of exercises was presented by
the children, consisting of songs, recitations,
a dialogue and an essay, which were both in-
teresting and instructive, and showed that the
little ones are being taught correct principles.
Short addresses were given by several of the
sisters of the ward, after which Sister Pike
spoke about the Sabbath day. Said that plain
clothes are honorable. and urged the necessity
of secret prayer. Her instructions were timely,
and greatly appreciated by the listeners.
	The officers of the Association for the pre-
vious year were sustained for the coming year,
with the addition of Sister Myra Lamb being
appointed Ass’t Counselor.
				LYDIA DAMES, Secretary.


ORGANIZATION OF WORKING
				WOMEN.

	The movement to organize the working-
women of Boston, inaugurated by the Boston
Woman Suffrage League, took shape on Thurs-
day evening, August 18, in a public meeting
at Wells Memorial Hall, under the auspices of
the Central Labor Union. Mrs. E. R. Hazel-
ton presided, and said that the meeting was
called for the purpose of forming an organiza-
tion for working-women, in which industrial
and labor matters should be discussed, and
mutual help be given in the way of bettering
existing industrial conditions: an organization,
in short, to do for working-women in this city
what the various labor unions have done for
working-men. Mrs. Abby Morton Diaz, Presi-
dent of the New England Woman’s Educa-
tional and Industrial Union, spoke on the Bene-
fits of Association. Addresses were made by
Mrs. S. E. Merryfield, Mr. David Taylor, and
Mrs. Charlotte Smith, of Washington, D. C.
Further meetings of a similar character will
soon follow.
	This movement for working-women, if judi-
ciously managed, may achieve important re-
sults. In Massachusetts there are more than
two hundred thousand women who earn their
support, by work outside of their own homes,
at less than one-half the average rate of wages
paid to men. In Boston alone there are twenty
thousand women employed in shops and stores
at from two to four dollars per week. It is
high time that these women should organize
for mutual help and protection. “The gods
help those who help themselves,” and those
“who would be free themselves must strike the 
blow.”


MISCELLANEOUS.

	It is better to be nobly remembered than
nobly born.—Ruskin.
	
	If you cannot be great, be willing to serve
God in things that are small—S. F. Smith.

	Only let us have faith in God, and we shall
not lack the means of doing good.—Andrew
Fuller.

	A Catholic legend says that the devil gave
a hermit the choice of three great vices, one of
which was drunkenness. The hermit chose
this as being the least sinful. He became
drunk and he committed the other two.

	The grave cannot hold any portion of the
covenanted ones; eternal life is the portion of
the whole man, God is the God of our entire
manhood, spirit, soul, and body; and all live
unto Him in their entirety. The whole of the
covenant shall be fulfilled to the whole of those
with whom that covenant was made.—C. H.
Spurgeon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN “EMERGENCY” CABINET.

	In every house, especially where the family
is large, there should be some provision for ac-
cidents, and sudden attacks of painful disease.
A contemperary describes such an "emergency”
cabinet, as a box or closet arranged to hold a
variety of articles, such as wide and narrow
bandages of muslin neatly rolled and ready
for use, the former for cuts or hurts on the
body or limbs, and the latter for wounded
hands or fingers. There should also be a packet
of court-plaster, a roll of diachylon or adhesive
plaster, pieces of old linen, lint, cotton, a small
bottle of collodion for cuts, old muslin for mus-
tard plasters, pins, scissors, and other neces-
saries that will suggest themselves, and are
known to good housekeepers.
	Among useful things to be added to the
above are such following simple remedies, as
essence of peppermint, spirits of camphor, some
first-rate olive oil, aromatic spirits of amomnia,
water of ammonia, a little alcohol, common
salt in fine powder, bicarbonate of soda, and a
box of mustard. 	
	The aromatic spirits of ammonia and
camphor should be kept in every house where
there are aged persons, as they are subject to
sudden attacks of faintness, and both these
agents afford relief and help to restore impeded
circulation of the blood.
	Mustard is a valuable-nauseant, in cases of
suspected or accidental poisoning. It may
here be added that copious draughts of tepid
water taken until vomiting ensues, and there-
after repeatedly until the poison is supposed to
be thrown off, is a good remedy to use until
the help of a physician can be procured. If
pains are felt in the bowels, give copious in-
jections of tepid water also, and rid the sys-
tem in both ways of the poison as speedily as
possible.
				—Phrenological Journal.


A daughter of Ogden Bradly, of New York,
an 1 niece of Bishop Neely, of Maine, has won
a diploma from the famous Paris School of
Medicine, passing a brilliant examination and
receiving the maximum mark. Her thesis
was “Iodism,” and for an hour and a half she
was shrewdly and ably questioned by four of
the leading professors of the school, each of
whom had been provided with a copy of the
thesis. She wore the black gown and white
fichu prescribed for candidates.

	A horrible instance of the inhumanity of
courts toward women is related in a New
Orleans paper. Carrie Johnson, colored, was
convicted of stealing fifty cents and sentenced
to one year’s hard labor in the penitentiary.
In company with other convicts she was put to
work on a plantation, where twenty-six men
and four women died from exposure and ill-
treatment, and she returned a physical wreck,
and had to be put in the Charity Hospital. Is
not this a travesty on justice?—Ex.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending August 2,1887, as follows:
	Bell Epperly, Lamor, Mo., Corset.
	Clara Lenenberg, New York, N. Y., Armpit
dress-shield.
	Mary E. Morgan, Gainsboro’, Tenn., Churn
	Sarah J. Schack, Chicago, Ill., Stocking-sup-
porter.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of the deepest sorrow that we are
called upon to record the death of Sister Phebe Singleton,
which took place at the residence of her daughter, Sister


Annie Patterson, in Summit, Davis Co., Utah, August 21st,
1887, after a long illness of typhoid fever.
	Deceased was born on the 29th of March, 1828, at
Hucknal, Parish of Sutton, Nottinghamshire, England.
Was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints on the 19th of March, 1850, by Elder James
Stone. She never faltered in her faith, and her life was de-
voted to the discharge of her duties as a Latter-day Saint
in every position in which she was placed. She leaves a
husband and four children and many friends to mourn her
loss.
	In November, 1880, the Primary Association of the
Slaterville Ward was organized, and at that time Sister
Phebe was appointed First Counselor. In that office she
labored with faithful and devoted interest; she also held the
office of Assistant Secretary in the Relief Society for a
considerable length of time. She died as she lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint, with a hope of coming forth in
the first resurrection.
	We, the Primary Association of the Slaterville Ward, de-
sire to offer a tribute to the memory of Sister Phebe, our
beloved Counselor, whom our Heavenly Father in His
great wisdom has seen fit to call unto himself.
	She was loved and respected, and we would offer to her
bereaved family our sincere sympathy, and say, while we
mourn the loss of a dear sister, we shall look forward with
joy to the time when we shall meet the dear departed in
that land of rest, where all tears are wiped away.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to bless and com-
fort those who mourn, and give unto them the sweet peace
that the Gospel affords, and help them to realize that al-
though their departed one has ceased to labor here, she
has gone to continue her labors in a higher sphere.

	Our sister now has gone to rest,
		She has gone to dwell on a brighter shore;
	She has gone to meet those whom she loved.
		Whom death had parted long before.

	And may the loyed that here remain
		Prove true and faithful to the end;
	In faith and works united be,
		Your mother’s pure desires to free.

						ANN HOLLEY, President,
						ANNIE E, HOLLEY, Sec.


OBITUARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with feelings of great sorrow that I record the death
of Edmond Sant, son of George and Margaret Sant, born
September 22nd, 1884; and died August 4th, 1887. He
was accidently burned to death while playing in a covered
wagon with another boy near his own age. The cover was
tied securely down, while the wagon was partly loaded
with sacks of salt. The children had been playing in the
wagon at the back of the house, alone; they took matches
out of the dinner box, set them on fire to see the wind
blow them out, and dropped one into the hay while it was
burniug, thus setting the hay in the wagon on fire. One
little fellow crawled part way out of the small opening in
the back of the cover, and then fell to the ground, burned
but little, but little Edmond was burned to death while
waiting his turn to get out, as he could not get out at the
front for the sacks of salt. The father is one of the
brethren who is driven away from home for daring to obey
one of the commandments of God. His mother was
away from home at the time of the accident working
hard to provide clothes and food for her little ones at
home. Sad, indeed, are the feelings of the parents in their
bereavement, but they do not mourn alone, they have
the heartfelt sympathy of all their friends. They do not
live without hope; they look forward to a meeting in the
realms of peace and bliss, where loving hearts will part
no more, and "God will wipe away their tears" and
comfort the oppressed.

							D. E. DUDLEY.
	Clifton, August 31st, 1887.


[Column 1]
Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Office and Residence at the Deseret Hospital,
Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City.

The Warm Springs car passes the Hospital, which
can also be reached by Telephone No. 269.

[Column 2]
﻿R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,	
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE- 
MENTS,	
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 

	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions  
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1887.		No. 8.


“AT BREAK OF DAY.”

		BY DAVID SKAATS FOSTER.

The stars fade slowly, twinkle, pale and die,
	Before the halo rising in the east,
A rosy glamour steals athwart the sky.
	And grows to flames of gules and amethyst.
	The hills are silver-rimmed, the curtain mist
As at some swift command, rolls back from field,
	Valley and lake and wood, and floats away,
And the whole glorious pageant is revealed
	At break of day.

There is a solemn murmur of the breeze,
	There is a ripple on the lonely shore,
A solitary chirp among the trees,
	Is taken up and echoed o’er and o’er
	And dies away, and all is still once more.
Then comes the signal and all living things
	Raise up an anthem, glorious, blithe and gay,
And the whole land with one glad chorus rings 
		At break of day.

There is a night of sorrow and unrest,
	A darkness of the soul, a night when all
The world of thought is haunted and oppressed 
	And hemmed about, as with a dungeon wall,
	When heaviness and fear upon us fall.
Take courage, then ! the longest, darkest hour
	Comes just before the first faint tinge of gray,
And sadness has no place, and fear no power,
		At break of day.

And when that last, that silent, starless night
	Comes over us, when the dark, sorrowful stream
Sweeps at our feet, in dread, relentless might,
	And every deed and word and thought shall seem
	To pass before us, in a troubled dream,—
What joy! to watch the faintly outlined shore
	Rise, grand and glistening, ’neath morn’s silvery ray,
To know that night departs forevermore
		At break of day,
									 —Golden Rule.


THE DEAD.

			A DIRGE.

		I love the dead—
	The precious spirits gone before,
	And waiting on that peaceful shore,
To meet with welcome looks,
			and kiss me yet once more.

		I love the dead;
	And fondly doth my fancy paint
	Each dear one, washed from earthly taint;
By patience and by hope
			made a most gentle	saint.

		O glorious dead !
	Without one spot upon the dress
	Of your ethereal loveliness,
Ye linger round me still,
			with	earnest will to	bless.

		Enfranchised dead !
	Each fault and failing left behind,
	And nothing now to chill or bind,
How gloriously ye reign
			in majesty of mind !

		O royal dead!
	The resting, free, unfettered dead, 
	The yearning, conscious, holy dead,
The hoping, waiting, calm,
			the happy, changeless dead !

		I love the dead !
	And will forget their little ill,
	Eager to bask my memory still
In all their best of words,
			and deeds, and ways, and will.


I bless the dead!
	Their good, half choked by this world’s weeds,
	Is blooming now in heavenly meads,
And ripening golden fruit
			of all those early seeds.
		
		I praise the dead !
	All their tears are wiped away,
	Their darkness turned to perfect day—
How blessed are the dead;
			how beautiful be they !

		O gracious dead !
	That watch me from your paradise
	With happy, tender, starlike eyes,
Let your sweet influence rain
			me blessings from the skies.

		O godlike dead, 
	Ye that do rest, like Noah's dove.
	Fearless I leave you to the love
Of Him who gave you peace.
			to bear with you above !

		And some, just dead,
	To me on earth most deeply dear,
	Who loved, and nursed, and blessed me here
I love you with a love
			that casteth out all fear.

								TUPPER.


A PRETTY PEN PICTURE.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	I have often thought I would describe to
you some one of the few excursions which I
have attended since I came here, but the last
few months I have allowed myself to let all
my literary amusements fall away from me.
My heart has been too heavy for even the
least effort.
	Now, however, I am going to try and tell
you of a little trip which a few of us took to
the island (as it is vaguely called) on the 11th
of last June.
	It was a national holy day here, being the
birthday of Kamehameha I. A concert to be
given by our choir here, over at Kahana,
took almost everybody away from here. But
as we, over here, were not included among their
singers or their guests, we were left at home.
After our concerters had departed, it oc-
curred to us that it would be an excellent plan
to get the boat and go over to the island, a
little piece of land about a quarter of a mile
out from the mouth of the river.
	However, I remembered that I had been in-
structed to ring the bell for the Hui Manawa-
lea (the R. S.) and what could be done. We
talked the matter over, and agreed to invite
the sisters of the Hui M to join us over on the
island, bringing their poi, w. taking our lunch,
and after an impromptu feast hold meeting
over there.
	The sisters soon spread the word, and all
were anxious to go. Accordingly we set out.
We put on our bathing suits, put dry clothes
in our valise, aud started. Mother walked
down to the sea, but I was taken down in the
boat from the mooring place on the river, a
short distance from the house.
	Here we are then, gathering from all points
of the compass. Our boat was heavy laden,

[Column 2]
and the water was low, and of course we
stranded twenty times ou the way down, but
two or three half grown boys and girls calmly
tucked up their clothes aud pulled us off
again.
	When we reached the mouth of the river,
we found many of the sisters waiting for us.
We tried to get mother to get in the boat,
but no, she insisted on walking across through
the sea, and away we went. It seemed to me
every woman had a child; but tucking up their
clothes, they all waded in and across. It was
only about waist deep. Once across, all busied
themselves in collecting materials for dinner—
Raw shell fish, sea moss, and raw hei or devil- 
fish; and what laughing and chatter. Pono
caught a great big fish with the hook and line.
Mother and Lula went hunting shells and curi-
osities, while I sat down under the shade of
the umbrella and watched the natives.
	Gracious! what an utter disregard of anything
like modesty. It is startliug to new-comers,
but, like “kissing niggers,” nothing when you
get used to it.
	The folks brought in a pail full of shells, and
the natives many a handful of raw fish of vari-
ous kinds.
	Our simple feast was soon dispatched, the
natives appearing in clean white wrappers,
carried across in bundles on their heads. A
short meeting followed, and then we set out for
home. Mother still persisted in walking across,
and in the hurry turned her foot from which
she still suffers at times.
	All in all it was a very pleasant day, and
many impressions, of which I have only given
you the skeleton, were graven on my mind.
The purple sky, fleeced with lazy clouds, the
golden, mellow sunshine, tempered by the salt 
sea breeze, the splash and jar of the waves up-
on the shore, the dark, bare-limbed natives,
graceful and slow, in the blue waters at their
work, the visions of the past, and the fears of
the future, all had a vivid place in my mind
that day. So it is! If asked to repeat our ex-
perience, we often bring out a rude frame work
of events, and set it up, unclothed with the
hopes, the thoughts, the bright impressions or
sad interlacings, that made it what it was—a
chapter in our lives.
						HOMESPUN.
Laie, Aug. 8, 1887.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

		MINUTES BY SISTER C. V. SMITH.

	On Wednesday last, Sept. 7th, the annual
gathering in honor of Sister P. S. Kimball
met at her residence, in the 16th Ward, to
celebrate the 77th birthday of that venerable
and respected lady. About forty of the sisters
from different parts of the city and others
from the surrounding settlements, assembled
about noon, and sat down to a table loaded
with all the delicacies of the season. After
dinner the gathering took the form of a meet-
ing, aud Aunt Presendia was introduced
and requested to occupy a handsome plush
covered easy chair, which was presented to her
as a substantial token of esteem oy her sisters
and friends. After singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a Prophet,” prayer was offered by
Sister Young.)
	Sister Presendia then arose and thanked the
sisters for their presence, and for the beautiful


token of their affection and esteem, and felt to
praise God for all His blessings and the love
and good will of the sisters, and prayed that
all might be blessed and spared to meet again
on a similar occasion.
	Some selections were read, and then Sister
Fowler said she was glad to be present on this
occasion, and was proud of Sister Kimball, and
felt that she had her love and respect. Sister
Savage congratulated Sister Kimball on at-
taining her 77th birthday. Sister Polly
Howard made a few remarks. Sister Coon
said she thought she was the oldest sister
present, and she felt pleased to see so many
gathered together to honor Sister Kimball.
Sister Stewart of Draper said she felt proud to
be one with the sisters on this occasion, and
hoped she would be enabled to follow Sister
Kimball's example, and be a blessing to her
generation. Sister Airmett felt to pray that
she might be steadfast in this work and be
blest with all the faithful. Sister Bathsheba
Smith expressed her pleasure at being present'
and felt to bless Sister Kimball with all the
power and authority she possessed, and hoped
she would live long to be useful to those who
needed her, and that her blessings might be
multiplied with her years. Sister Toone felt to
bless all present, and expressed the same wishes
for Sister Kimball's health and happiness.
Sister Dyer was glad to meet with the sisters,
and felt that the Spirit of God was present
in our midst. Sisters Sanders, Jeffs and Becker
then expressed their feelings of good will.
Sister McAllister said she had never met with
a better spirit or heard more beautiful senti-
ments than those uttered by the sisters, and
she hoped that all would be blessed and have
strength to overcome all the difficulties and
trials that presented themselves, from within
as well as from without. Sister Allsop felt to
endorse all that the sisters had said, and felt to
stand by every doctrine and principle of our
faith. Sister Watmough said she felt to bless
Sister Kimball, who had been her counselor
and friend for many years. Sister McClain
felt to bless all the sisters, and hoped that Sis-
ter Kimball would live many years to meet
with the sisters on her birthday. Sister Dyer
then spoke in tongues, and the interpretation
was given by Sister Young. Singing, "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
	Sister Maggie Cahoon said a few words, and
Sister Fenemore said she felt glad to be able
to meet with the sisters on this occasion; said
she thought if we could only lift the veil we
would see the angels present with us. Hoped
that all would enjoy the Spirit of God, that we
might all go on as Sister Kimball had done, and
be faithful as she had been. Sister Davis of
South Cottonwood said though all had not
come from her ward that she expected to see,
still she knew that all felt good to Sister Kim-
ball, and joined in all the blessings and affec-
tion manifested by the sisters. Sister Roberts
said she felt good to be here. Sister L G.
Richards said she felt to bless Sister Kimball,
and pray that she might be long spared to
bless the sisters. Sister Grieves said she felt
that these meetings were like drops of dew to
a thirsty soul. Felt to ask God to give a bless-
ing to every one that came to this habitation
for that purpose, and that God would keep us
faithful, that we may return and see our Father's 
face in heaven.
	Sister Cecelia Sharp then recited a piece,
entitled, "Guilty, or not Guilty."
	Sister Gray said she had attended thirteen
anniversaries of Sister Kimball’s birthday, and
she hoped she would be spared to attend as
many more. Sister Maggie Sharp said she
thought Sister Kimball looked younger instead
of older, and hoped she would live long to en-
joy every blessing that had been promised her.
Sister R. Daynes and Sister Lyons expressed
similar sentiments. Sister Kittle said she felt
grateful for the privilege of being present; felt
to love Sister Kimball for her work’s sake.
Prayed that she might be able to bring up her
children in the fear of the Lord, and that we
might all be faithful in this kingdom. Sister
Johnson said she felt that we had had a good
time, and hoped that such meetings may be re-
newed for many years. Sister Minnie Gray
felt that all had been blessed in their visit here.
	Sister E. B. Ferguson said she felt that these
birthday gatherings grew better and better
every year. It was a red letter day in the
year, for the Spirit of God and the angels were
here. How many have been blessed in this
house! Every one that comes here says,
"What a holy place; how peaceful and how
sacred the influence!" Felt that the prayers
of the sisters would be answered, and that
Aunt Presendia would be blessed and spared
for yet many years to do good. Hoped that
Sister Kimball would use the easy chair, and
not spare it, for if it was worn out before the
next birthday the sisters would re-cover it.
	Sister Young said that all blessings were
conditional upon our faithfulness, and Sister
Presendia had been faithful through trials,
that would have tried the utmost recesses of
any human heart. The Prophet knew of her
faithfulness, and saw by a revelation, when he
was in Liberty Jail, that she was to be his wife,
and the position that belonged to her.
	(Sister McClain then blessed the sisters in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Young.)
	Sister Woodmansee said although she came
late, she felt blest already in hearing Sister
McClain bless the sisters in tongues. She felt
one with the sisters in blessing Sister Presendia,
and hoped the Lord would spare her life, that
she might continue to be a blessing to others,
and that we might all find her to be a very
present help in time of trouble.
	Sister Presendia then blessed the sisters in
tongues, interpreted by Sister Young. She said,
"If your eyes could be opened to see the bless-
ings that God has in store for His faithful
children, we could hardly believe ourselves.
Be comforted, my sisters, for the Lord hath
many blessings in store for those who are faith-
ful. Then we shall be united to our husbands
and children, and see those who have been
faithful and overcome through much tribula-
tion."
	Mother Coon then spoke in tongues, which
was interpreted by Sister Young.
The meeting closed with singing, "Lord, dis-
miss us with Thy blessing," and prayer by Sis-
ter Emma Toone.
	The following poem way read by Sister Lula
Greene Richards, as also the poem by Sister
E. R. S. S., entitled, "Evening Thoughts," and
"Our Twenty-Fourth," by Hope.
			TO SISTER P. L. KIMBALL,
			ON HER 77TH BIRTHDAY.
			Thy three-score years and ten are past,
			The term to man allotted,
		Yet thou art hale and hearty still,
			Though seven more are added.

		Thy intellect is bright and strong,
			Thy woman's heart so warm,
		That all the graces round thee throng,
			Acknowledging the charm.

		Thou art not as the iceberg, cold,
			Imposing, stately, grand;
		But like the glorious sunbeam, 
			That warms the grateful land.
	
		That wakes the flowers to beauty,
			And with perfume fills the air,
		Shedding hope, and faith, and life, and love,
			And gladness everywhere.

		The sick and chastened seek for thee,
			Not ever seek in vain:
		Thou lov'st to soothe the stricken heart,
			And make the reason plain,
	
		To justify our Father's ways,
			Though wrapt in mystery,
		And prove it is in love He slays,
			For this is given thee.

		No drone art thou in the human hive,
			No cumberer of the ground,
		But patient beacon to thy sex,
			And ever waiting found.

		Then live, and love thy patron be,
			And peace ’mid surging strife,
		Till time yields to Eternity,
			And death is lost in life.
										C. V. SMITH.
S. L. City, Sept. 7, 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TALKS ABOUT SCRIPTURE.

	The Ten Commandments were given to the
Isrealites, descendants of Abram or Abraham,
through Moses, from Mount Sinai, in a desert
bearing the same name. As we know, the
Lord had delivered the Israelites from the
bondage of the Egyptians, who had become
their masters, through the influence of Joseph,
a descendant of Israel, exercised upon Pharaoh,
the King, previous to the seven years’ famine.
We have also read the interesting account of
the many plagues brought upon this same
mighty empire of Egypt, because of its wicked-
ness toward the enslaved Israelites. And how
many times the King, a descendant of the
same Pharaoh, refused to liberate the chosen
people of the Lord. No natural father could
be more watchful over the wants of his child-
ren than the Lord was over the necessities of
this people whom He had delivered from their
enemies, and afterward preserved from thirst
and starvation, which would have been inevit-
able so many times without His  kind and
fatherly assistance.
	The Bible tells us that some of their food,
called “manna,” was preserved for future
generations to see upon what sort of bread their
forefathers subsisted for the space of forty
years.—Exodus xvi, 32.
	Moses had taught the people during their
travels, and indeed before leaving Egypt, that
it was against the will of the Lord for them to
bow the knee and worship aught besides Him-
self. When in the desert of Sinai Moses com-
manded the people to clean and prepare them-
selves to worship the Lord their living God,
while he went up into the mount to receive
further instruction concerning the wanderings,
destination and government of the Lord’s peo-
ple. On his return, can the surprise and con-
stenation portrayed upon his countenance be
imagined, to find this favored people worship-
ping a golden calf, made from Egyptian jewelry?
We read that his feelings were so much wrought
upon that he allowed the stone tablets, upon
which were engraved the ten commandments,
to slip from his grasp, and they were broken,
so that new ones were hewn from another stone
to replace the fragments.
	The death of so great a number of their peo-
ple was a just, but terrible judgment of the
Lord, for this great and enormous sin of
worshipping idols and breaking His direct
word at the same time.	
	We have now upon the earth more than one
half of its inhabitants worshipping idols, in
the shape of animals, both living and imitated,
in wood, silver, gold, etc., the heavenly bodies,
as the sun, moon and stars, the elements, as
fire, water, wind, etc.,and the objects in nature,
and produced by nature, as the mountains, and
living persons set up as gods. One class
worships the devil, because, as they argue, the
Lord is all goodness, and can, or will not harm
them, while the devil is all evil, and they wish
to subdue his wicked passions by their entreat-
ies.								L. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS TO THE MUSE.

Let poesy’s inspiration sweet
The darts of envy now defeat,
And cruel strife depart afar,
While peace and love address the bar.
My musing spirit, where art thou?
I need thy glorious presence now;
Relieve a trying hour like this,
And thrill my soul with peaceful bliss;
My joy and comfort thou hast been
Through many a dark betroubled scene,
And fain thy face I now would see,
That I might give my thanks to thee.
O, that I could have power and light
To find thy dwelling place to-night;
If up the Logan Canyon now
The cooler breezes fan my brow,
While gliding on with anxious haste,
Thy love and blessing shall I taste.
And if I raise my voice in prayer,
Sweet spirit shall I meet thee there?
My wounded soul, where shall thou go
To hear the holy numbers flow,
That lift my soul from things of earth
To music of celestial birth?
O, let me touch the slumbering lyre
That makes thy sweet prophetic fire.
Oft hast thou called me from my sleep
Thy golden calycles to reap;
How sweet to mark the whispered line
Beneath thy influence divine;
This favor I would ask of thee,
Pray do not stay too long from me;
If other friends have gold in store
I’m sure they could not love thee more;
Revive to me the blest returns
Of echoes heard by Watts and Burns,
While fragrant breezes waft their store
Of flowery language used by Moore.
When near the river side I stand,
'Tis there I feel thy gentle wand;
And in the Temple of our God
Thy holy numbers oft have flowed.
O bring me now thy soothing power,
With grace and wisdom for the hour.
I know it is the blessed part
To cheer the sad, disconsolate heart;
Thy mission I can often see
When thou return’st to visit me;
But let me not offend my God,
Nor need His hand to use the rod,
His sweet reproof should not be lost—
He chastens those He loves the most.
But after stripes that He has given,
The heart inhales the love of heaven.
The Holy One from Timon came—
All glory, to His holy name;
The good he sends is still so great,
The evil has but little weight.
O, let me love and praise Him still,
For what He sends, both good and ill;
With humble heart I’ll kiss the rod,
My righteous Father and my God;
Accept my heartfelt thanks and praise
For life and light in latter days.
									J.P.


BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. MARY ANN
			YOUNG
	Soon after the Saints had reached Nauvoo
(then called Commerce) Brigham Young was
called on his first mission to England. At
that time his family were ill with fever and
ague, and his wife had been very recently cou-
fined. Mrs. Young’s sufferings then seemed to
have reached the climax, and in the midst of
sickness and poverty, having been deprived of
every comfort of a temporal nature calculated
to make life pleasant or desirable, she was
called to part with her husband and compan-
ion, and again to be left alone, unaided, except
by Him who hears the raven’s cry. Mrs. Young
trusted in God and exercised that faith which
none but a Saint can comprehend. When Mr.
Young left home their babe, Alice, was ten
days old. She subsequently became the wife

of Hon. H. B. Clawson, and died at St. George
in Dec., 1874.
	The courage and heroism of Mrs. Young at
that time are worthy of all praise. Like a
woman of God, she said to her husband, as she
had always been in the habit of doing when
duty called him in the darkest hour, “Go and
fill your mission, and the Lord will bless you,
and I will do the best I can for myself and the
children.” With the true devotion of a lov-
ing and faithful wife, Mrs. Young, in the midst
of her own trials, sympathized deeply with her
husband, who was worn out with fatigue and
exposure, almost beyond the endurance of even
man to bear, and had been for sometime ill,
and at the time of his departure for England
was not able to walk even a short distance.
They were then residing at Montrose, on the
west side of the Mississippi River, opposite
Nauvoo.
	Mrs. Young was often compelled to cross the
river with her babe (leaving her little ones in
charge of the eldest girl) to obtain such things
as were necessary for their sustenance. These
journeys were frequently made in a small skiff,
and on some occasions in storms that would be
calculated to frighten women of ordinary
courage; but Mrs. Young was undaunted, and
she has passed through trials in thousands of
instances, under which it would seem women
of fine nervous temperaments such as hers,
must have succumbed. These hardships and
vicissitudes have given her such shocks as have
undermined her health, and although she is
living now (at this present writing, but since
deceased), and is in full possession of her
physical and mental faculties, yet the pressure
and strain has been such as only those who trust
in God could possibly endure.
	After Brigham Young's return from England,
he removed his family to Nauvoo, and there
Mrs. Young enjoyed a short respite from the
extreme hardships which had marked her
married life. In 1842 Mrs. Young’s daughter,
Luna, was born, her only daughter now living;
she is the wife of Hon. George Thatcher, and
the mother of ten children.
	October, 1844, her youngest son, John W.,
was born; he was the first male child born after
the revelation upon celestial marriage had been
given, and his parents had entered into this
holy order of matrimony. Mrs. Young’s testi-
mony in regard to the doctrine of the Latter-
day Saints is strong and powerful. She says
that she knows Joseph Smith was a prophet of
God, and that Brigham Young is his rightful
successor, by testimony upon testimony of the
fulfillment of prophecies uttered by these lead-
ers of the people. She says, “I know it for
myself, and I bear this testimony to all the
world, that this is the everlasting Gospel, re-
vealed by the power of God’s inspiration and
the visitation of angels in the dispensations of
the fulness of times.” That the revelation
given to Joseph Smith upon “plural marriage,”
she received at first as “thus saith the Lord,”
as also every principle of faith and doctrine
revealed through Joseph Smith and Brigham
Young. Mrs. Young, through all her trials
and difficulties in sharing pioneer life with the
people of God, has never rebelled against any
principle, but has borne a heavy share of “the
heat and burden of the day.” In the exodus
from Nauvoo with her family of small children
in the dead of winter, she was ever cheerful
and buoyant, aiding and strengthening her hus-
band in the discharge of his arduous labors, by
her faith and courage. Mrs. Young is a woman
of great benevolence of character, and hospit-
able in the extreme. Her labors have ever
been to do good to the Saints and to minister to
those in need, especially to the widow and
fatherless. 
	With her own hands, during the first years of
the settlement here, she baked bread to dis-
tribute among the Indians. She had been
thoroughly disciplined in habits of industry in
her early life in New England, and could spin
and dye and oversee all that class of home-
work, as well as to perform much of it herself,
which she did, notwithstanding her many cares
and duties, both in her own household and as
a mother among a great body of people.
	During the time that Mr. Young was
Governor of Utah, Mrs. Young entertaiued
many strangers and people of rank and posi-
tion in the world, ever presiding as hostess
with that unassuming dignity which is charac-
teristic of true greatness. She is a woman
whom no changes of fortune or circumstances
could ever alter.
	She is fond of domestic retirement, and has
been for so many years compelled to meet
strangers, that now she feels the need of rest,
and in the bosom of her family, surrounded by
loving friends; she enjoys the luxury of a com-
fortable home, made pleasant by the dear faces
and loving presence of those who are ever ready
to minister to her wishes.
			To be Continued.


﻿NECESSITY OF PRAYER.

	If we could realize the necessity of prayer,
we would never neglect to offer up our thanks
and gratitude morning and evening for the
multitude of blessings that we receive. We
cannot feel that it lessens our self-respect to
bow in humility to our Heavenly Father.
Would we not, if we wished to ask a favor of
a well respected friend, approach them with
courtesy, and prefer our request in well chosen
words? And when they had kindly granted
the favor would it not be good manners to ex-
press our appreciation in a few appropriate ex-
pressions? Then, if we do not feel this humili-
ating, why should we to bow on our bended
knees to our Heavenly Father, and express
our  thanks and gratitude in language that
seems most suitable to each one of us, and
earnestly beseech Him to guide and guard us
every day and hour of our lives.
	The character and attributes of the God we
believe in, are beautiful and sublime; but in a
short article I can only touch upon some that
appeal most strongly to my feelings. I have
always felt a reverence and respect for His
greatness, but a love for His goodness. And
to think that He loves each one of us, with all
our faults, no matter how poor or unfortunate
we may be. He will hear our prayers, no
matter where we are, or what we are. And
He will sustain us through every trial that He
in His wisdom and mercy sees necessary for us
to pass through, in order to prove our true
worth.
	Then let us not feel that we weary Him with
our constant pleading, but ask Him to teach
us how to pray, that we may not ask for any-
thing that would not be for our welfare or the
welfare of those for whom we pray.
	And may we be more earnest in our supplica-
tions, that by our zeal and His ever watchful
care, we may be enabled to overcome the
temptations that we are bound to be surrounded
with, for we must have opportunities of choos-
ing good from evil. Then may we all live so
faithful, and strive to perform our little every-
day duties so well, that we may be fortified
and strengthened for the greater ones as they
come along.
	Hoping that we may all remain true through
every test and trial, is the earnest prayer of a
member of the Improvement Association,
					MARY E. L. NEFF.
	Nephi.


The Union-Signal says: “The University of
Pennsylvania is the first of State institutions
to forbid the use of tobacco to its students.”
But Oberlin College did this fifty years ago.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparcil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY, - - September 15,1887..


GENERAL CONFERENCE.
  
	The Fifty-seventh Semi-Annual Conference of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be opened
at 10 o’clock on Thursday, October 6th, 1887, in
the Tabernacle at Salt Lake City, and will con-
tinue until the business necessary to be transacted
has been attended to. The officers and members
of the Church are respectfully invited to attend.
	On the evening of Thursday, the 6th, there
will be a general meeting of the Young Men’s
and Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions.
	On Friday evening there will be a general meet-
ing of the Superintendents, Teachers, and all in-
terested in Sunday Schools.
	On Saturday evening there will be a meeting of
the Priesthood.
	These meetings will commence at 7 o'clock in
the evening.
	We wish the officers of these organizations to
bear these appointments in mind.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, 
In behalf of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The subject of the Salt Lake Library has not
been editorially treated upon in the EXPONENT,
except in the first effort made to secure a Ward
Library. Its having taken this form, that of a
Stake, will secure to its members and the public
much greater advantages, and it will be of in-
creased benefit to the people. It will reach a
larger number of persons, and open up a new field,
comparatively, for obtaining knowledge. Organ-
ized effort is always more effectual, both individu-
ally and generally. Such a broad field for the
cultivation of intellect, as is now to be extended
through this avenue (the Salt Lake Stake circu-
lating library and reading room), cannot fail to
materially change the current of reading matter
and of thought with many, and impress and awaken
a wish and desire, that will be attainable, to get
reliable information on topics of the day and
times past and present, that will be of incalculable
value to the young student especially, and to those,
to whom the world of literature is just opening its
inner doors, or who are entering upon advanced
studies in the arts and sciences. 
	The first great prophet of this dispensation
said, in language not to be mistaken, get knowl-
edge from the best books. The Latter-day Saints
should certainly be the best informed of any peo-
ple on the face of the earth, but it is not expected
that knowledge will be gained without an effort on
the part of the individual. The saying, "There is
no excellence without labor," applies to reading
and studying, and digesting what is read and
studied, as well as to other departments of labor.
People who read for pastime, generally read very
light works, or if not, read in a very careless way;
but those who read to gain knowledge cannot be
too particular of the way in which they read,


otherwise they are as likely to become confused,
and get wrong impressions as they are to receive
real benefit. The selection of books is one of the
most important matters, for bad books are almost,
though perhaps not quite, equivalent to bad com-
panions. There are parents who do not trouble
much about the quality or kind of books their
children read, yet would be very careful about
their associates. In such a library as the "Stake
Library," there will be no danger in regard to the
character of the books, because it will be in the
hands of those, who are perfectly capable and
qualified to select, and it will be a great relief, no
doubt, to many who feel the necessity and im-
portance of the choice of books, to know that it
will be safe to draw them from there without any
examination of the works beforehand. Other
Stakes of Zion will probably adopt the some or a
similar course in the collection of books, and the
formation of a library, and in this way a great ad-
vancement will be made in useful and classical
knowledge and attainments.
	We wish this library the most unbounded suc-
cess, and consider it should receive the influence
of those who wish to see the youth of Zion attain
unto that higher development which will prepare
them for the exceeding great responsibility that
will certainly devolve upon them in the great
events that must transpire in these the last days.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
				---
	ON Friday, September 8th, we had the pleasure
of attending the Relief Society Conference of the
Weber Stake, in the Ogden Tabernacle, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards presiding. There was a very
large congregation present, and Prest. L. W.
Shurtliff and Coun. Middleton were present on
the platform, as also several Bishops and other
brethren in the audience, as well as some on the
stand. There was a good representation made of
the work of the R. S., and much good advice
given, as well as encouragement to the faithful
laborers in the temporal and spiritual works of
Zion. In our next issue we expect to give the
minutes of the Conference. A good spirit pre-
vailed, and some of the speakers addressed the
congregation with a good degree of power.
	The 7th of the present month (September), was
the anniversary of the birth of Mrs. Presendia L.
Kimball, one of the veteran women in Israel. On
that day she completed her 77th year. Her only
sister, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, arrived by train
the evening before, just in time to participate in
the festivities of the occasion. She had been in
Bannock Stake for a short time past, holding meet-
ings, and visiting among the organizations of the
R. S., Y. L., P. A., etc.
	About forty of the dear friends of Sister Kim-
ball assembled at her residence before noon, in-
tending to make a day of it, and tables were set,
loaded with good things, in preparation for the
feast. The affair was in the management of a
committee of ladies, Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, Mrs.
Mary Grey and Mrs. Eliza Schutt being active in
aiding to make the affair a complete success. We
congratulate Sister Kimball on having reached
her 77th birthday in such good health, and that
she has had opportunities for the accomplishment
of so much good. May she be blessed in her fu-
ture life as she has been in the past, and more
abundantly.


THE SALT LAKE STAKE LIBRARY.
				---------
	In compliance with a request made of me by the
Editor of this paper, I will briefly state the object
and what is being done in the matter of the forma-
tion of a library in Salt Lake City; also its Con-
stitution and By-laws.
	The object of the institution is to found a circu-
lating Library and Free Reading Room, where the
young, middle aged and elderly part of the com-
munity may find "nutriment" to feed their
minds, in the way of ecclesiastical, religious, bio-
graphical, historical and scientific works, etc.
	Especially is it designed to be an institution of
learning religious truths and moral philosophy.
To bring to bear such influences as will develop a
taste for learning, leading many to thus employ
their time in a way beneficial to themselves, and
they in turn be able to benefit others. It is also
designed to have FREE LECTURES given by our
best talent for the benefit of those who are dis-
posed to learn.
	To this end have books and money been dona-
ted to start the institution, and we are steadily re-
ceiving donations of books and money from differ-
ent parties, which is very gratifying. And from
now on, Bro. Joseph E. Mullett, of 19th Ward,
Librarian, will receive all books, and H. S. Hall,
of Valley House, Treasurer, will receive all
monies donated to the institution.
	It is expected to open the Reading Boom some
time in October.
	The following are Constitution and By-Laws:—
			CONSTITUTION.
				Preamble.
	We, the citizens of the Salt Lake Stake, and
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, desiring to establish a circulating
library and free reading room in said stake, do
adopt the following Constitution and By-laws for
the guidance of the same.
				SECTION I.
	The organization shall be known as the Salt
Lake Stake Circulating Library and free Reading
Room.
				SECTION II.
	The officers shall consist of a President, Vice
President, Secretary, Treasurer and Librarian.
				SECTION III.
	The President, Vice President, Secretary and
Treasurer with three others shall form the Board
of Directors.
				SECTION IV.
	The first election of the said officers shall be
held July 18, 1887, and they shall be elected
biennally thereafter.
				SECTION V.
				Duties of Officers
	It shall be the duty of the President to preside
over all the regular meetings of the Board of Di-
rectors, to call special meetings whenever nec-
essary, and to sign all orders on the Treasurer for
the payment of money.
	It shall be the duty of the Vice President to
perform all the duties of the President in the ab-
sence of the latter.
	It shall be the duty of the Board of Directors
to attend all meetings of the association and to
have general supervision over the affairs.
	It shall be the duty of the Secretary to attend
all meetings of the Board of Directors, to take
and record the minutes of the same, and to con-
duct all necessary correspondence under the
direction of the Board of Directors.
	It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to keep
a strict account of all means received and dis-
bursed, and he shall make no order for the pay-
ment of money except by order of the President.
	It shall be the duty of the Librarian to receive
and classify all books, to have general supervision
over letting the same out, and whenever necessity
requires it, he shall have the power, with the ap-
proval of the Board of Directors, of appointing
an assistant.
				SECTION VI.
	The President of the Church and his Counsel-
ors, the Twelve Apostles and their Counselors,
the President of the Salt Lake Stake and his
Counselors, and the Delegate to Congress from


Utah, shall be honorary members of the associa-
tion. 
              -----
  	BY-LAWS.
      	SECTION	I.
	ARTICLE I.—All Latter-day Saints and persons
properly recommended,all honorary and life mem-
-bers, and all subscribers have the privilege of
 drawing books from the Library.
				SECTION II.
	ARTICLE I.—The cost of life membership
shall be $10.00; annual subscription, $2.00; semi-
annual $1.00 and quarterly 50 cents.
	ARTICLE 2.—A receipt signed by the Librarian
will be given to each subscriber.
				SECTION III.
	ARTICLE I.—No member or subcriber will be
permitted to transfer his (or her) privilege to any
other person.
				SECTION IV.
	ARTICLE I.—Subscribers will be notified of the
expiration of their subscriptions, and unless it be
renewed within a reasonable time, they will for-
feit their right to draw books.
       SECTION V.
	ARTICLE I.-Persons not regular subscribers,
upon proper recommendation, will be allowed to
draw books upon deposit of the value of the
books or series, and payment for the use as thereof
at the rate of ten cents per week.
				SECTION VI.
	ARTICLE I.—A label is on the inside of each book,
stating how long the book can be kept; and for
day kept over the specified time the holder will be
subject to a fine of ten cents.
				SECTION VII.
	ARTICLE 2.—Books marked "Reference” will
not be allowed to be taken from the library, and
any person violating this rule shall pay a fine of
$3.00.
				SECTION VIII.
	ARTICLE 2—Upon a written application before
expiration of the prescribed time a book may be
issued the second time; but no book
will be issued the third time to the same per-
sons. 
				SECTION IX.
	ARTICLE I.—Persons desirous of drawing
books, who reside outside of this Stake, may re-
tain books double the regular length of time np-
on proper recommendation.
				SECTION X.
	ARTICLE I—The librarian will be the only per-
son permitted to take books from or place them
upon the shelves.
				SECTION XI.
	ARTICLE I.—If a volume be defaced, injured or
lost, the owner must pay the value of the book.
If a whole set the holder will be responsible for
their replacement.
				SECTION XII.
	ARTICLE I.—A registry book will be kept at the
library, where the name of every person drawing
books will be kept.
				SECTION XII.
	ARTICLE I.—Periodicals and papers will be
kept on file and any person mutilating or ruining
them will be fined $3.00.
				SECTION XIV.
	ARTICLE I.—All fines and penalties herein pro-
vided for shall be strictly enforced, and any per-
son refusing to pay such fines, will lose all rights
of drawing books until fines are paid.
				SECTION XV.		
ARTICLE I.—Any rule or regulation necessary,
any amendment, or any change in constitution
and by-laws, may be made at any regular meet-
ng of the board of directors, by and with the con-
sent of a three-fourth majority vote of the dele-
agates present from the wards.
				SECTION XVI.
	ARTICLE I.—The Librarian shall keep a list of
the books called for, which are not in the Library,
the author and the subscriber and the dates called
for, and by whom; and such books shall, when
the funds will permit, be purchased and placed in
the Library.
	After the adoption of the foregoing constitution
and by-laws the meeting adjourned until July 18,
1887, at 8 p.m. in the Social Mall, when the offi-
cers for the ensuing two years are to be elected.
					J. M. WHITAKER. Prest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
    SEVENTY-TWO MORMONS TO BE
	 		   TRIED.
Seventy-two Mormons are to be tried! Tried
for what? Have they injured any one? Is there
any destruction in their path?  Who has suffered
through their offences? Woman has been pro-
tected from insult and injury! The sacred
rights of wife and mother extended, and
such protection given her as in no other part of
America! These men are not being tried for sin;
no! Not for falsehood, fraud or deception in any
way! Then for what is our thrifty Territory hunted
through, and our best men incarcerated, robbed
by fines and vexed by costs of suit, while wives
are left in sorrow and trouble, and children to be
scattered, with only the protection of heaven?
Perhaps they think the ship Zion has run aground,
and that there is nothing to do but to send these
pretended protectors of liberty, like eagles with
talons sharpened, and fasten upon these unpro-
tected women and children to destroy them as a
"slaughter of innocents."
	Our government does not send its representa-
tives here to inquire carefully into our real condi-
tion, and to know if we are the people we are re-
presented to be! Are there not men in high
places in the world who are of doubtful integrity?
Are they all honest? Does not the world need a
reform, beginning in the hearts of husbands and
wives, to honor and be true to themselves and the
sacred  trusts imposed upon them as parents, in
keeping covenants and obligations? What if the
ship of state should stop on its cruise to Utah
and see if all is safe and sound between here and
Washington?
	We are not perfect, but our principles are, and
would save any family, town, country or nation
from crime or sin, if adhered to. "Mormonism," as
it is called, is a star of Bethlehem, a forerunner of
great events if known and understood; and it has
met with the same opposition as He whose coming
was heralded by that wonderful "star in the East."
It has done wonders already. For instance, the
whole United States has joined with one accord,
"Away with the ship Zion."
	Utah is no disgrace, with its lovely homes,
honestly labored for, with God's special care over
those who have subdued the desert places, digging
for thousands of miles ditches to irrigate the fields
and the trees, and to provide drink for the flocks
and herds. Now, through persecution, how
crippled are the efforts, taking away the business
men, the bone and sinew that wrought, as well as
the brains that planned and prompted. Seventy-
two men to be tried for no crime, for no guilt.
Will the God, who rules the universe, and who
holds the destiny of nations in His hands, close
His ears to the prayers of the wives and children
of the innocent men who are condemned unjustly?
Almost 300 have already been incarcerated; those
that have served their term in prison, some have
been enfeebled through it; and for what are they
sentenced? For murder? No! for the very op-
posite; for producing life, and sustaining it nobly;
for truly honoring wives and establishing homes.
[column 2]
Not one of these men, no, not a Latter-day Saint
in fellowship in the whole Church has a woman
(not a wife), as the world calls it; no, not one, but
wives! It is for wives and children, and for tak-
ing care of them and providing homes for all of
them. No people now on the earth are so happy,
pure, free, virtuous, upright and brave, honoring
and fearing God with praise and thanksgiving in
their hearts, as true Latter-day Saints, good men,
loved and honored wives, and protected in their
homes.
	This despised people are in the possession of
principles, thst the world might be truly proud to
acknowledge and live by. The true Saint has
confidence in himself, in his God and in his
brethren, and they have more in each other than
other people, who know not God. Our nation has
acted without a knowledge of the truth. There
are, undoubtedly, many good and noble souls, who
do not wish to inflict cruelty upon the innocent,
and who would shrink from participating in it;
but as surely as the sun ever shone this nation is
now sanctioning something barbarous and inhu-
man, and they little dream of the consequences.
Seventy-two Mormons under indictment to be
tried, and what for? For making a country and
peopling it—too honorable to insult a woman or
to cause her cheek to burn with shame, but offer-
ing her marriage, with all its sacred ties and rela-
tions; and for this our nation is frightened out of
countenance. What if our enemies should run
the ship of state ashore, while the ship Zion rides
the waves proudly, her banners floating aloft,
 that all the world may see?
					ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


SCHOOL.
				------------
	School, in the usual acceptation of the term, is
an institution for teaching, and for developing the
faculties of the mind by means of books etc., in
the hands of those qualified to instruct, according
to the rules laid down by the author.
	And yet, we might go further and say, the whole
world itself is one vast school for obtaining knowl-
edge and understanding, even from the cradle
to the  grave, for we are continually reaching out
and grasping after information upon some subject
or other, at least it is so with every intelligent be-
ing.
	The little child will count one, two, three, before
it ever knows the value of numbers or their uses,
and ask all kinds of questions as soon as they
learn to talk. At no period in our lives do we
cease to learn unless old age deprives us of the fac-
ulties of our minds.
	In the last century wonderful improvements have
been made, in regard to establishing and improv-
ing the system of schools; and the children of
this age possess many very superior advantages
which were denied their predecessors; the facili-
ties for instruction being now so simplified and
varied, that any one possessed of the least mental
capacity, can hardly fail to obtain a common edu-
cation.
	In some periods it has been considered unneces-
sary, and entirely out of place for common people
to learn even the first rudiments of their own
language; and even among the higher classes it
was only considered really essential for the
Priests.
	The diffusion of knowledge, through the medi-
um of schools, has now become general in all en-
lightened countries; there are many places par-
ticularly noted for their excellent institutions of
learning, and I hope some day, not far distant, to
see Utah take a prominent place among the na-
tions in this respect.
	There are many different varieties of schools,
Dancing, Fencing, Horsemanship, and many other
accomplishments are taught in schools for this ex-
press purpose.


Schools are in and of themselves, among the
greatest blessings we enjoy. Volumes might be
written upon the subject to explain it in all,its
bearings and it would still be inexhaustible.
	The subject is one of vital importance to us all,
but I am not capable of bringing out any ideas
which will be worthy of note although I have
the greatest and most profound respect for all In-
stitutions for the dissemination of knowledge up-
on the earth.
						EMMA WELLS.
	January 14, 1874.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STATEHOOD DISCUSSED.
				----------
	RICHFIELD SPRINGS, N. Y. Aug. 28, 1887.
EDITOR DESERET NEWS:
	I concur in every word of your admirable reply
to the Chicago Times on the question whether
Utah now has a republican form of government,
which I had the pleasure of reading in your paper
of the 23rd inst. Perhaps I can supplement what
you have said by explaining that while it is true
that every Territory is under the government of
Congress so long as it is a Territory, and that the
Federal Government is a republican form of
Government, yet it is not in accordance with the
trust which the Constitution of the United States
devolved on Congress, for the Federal Govern-
ment in any case to prolong indefinitely the Terri-
torial condition. The subject of the relations of
the Territories to the Federal Government is not
new to me.
	I had occasion to investigate it thirty years ago,
when I took part in the last argument in the Dred
Scott case before the Supreme Court of the
United States. From that day to this I have al-
ways understood that the purpose with which the
Federal Constitution conferred on Congress the
power to create Territorial Governments in any
region of country belonging to the United States,
however acquired, as well as to manage and dis-
pose of the public lands, was to form such com-
munities into States and admit them into the Union;
and that this power was not bestowed as a means
of indefinitely prolonging the Territorial condi-
tion, and keeping open a field for Federal patron-
age and power. I do not suppose that at the
present day there can be found anywhere in this
country a well informed constitutitional lawyer,
who does not regard Congress as clothed with a
trust to bring every Territory into the Union as a
State as soon as its inhabitants desire it, and they
have the requisite numbers and resources to sus-
tain a State government of the republican form.
What shall be considered a sufficient population
has varied in different cases; but in the case of
Utah there cannot be the slightest question of a
sufficiency of population or resources. There is
no dependency of the United States that has a
larger population than Utah excepting the District
of Columbia.
	What then is the obstacle, or the pretended ob-
stacle to your admission into the Union as a
State?
	If there had never been any polygamy in Utah
you would have been made a State long ago. But
now, the guarantees which your proposed constitu-
tion offers, whereby it will be made certain that
polygamy will not be a practicable social relation
in the New State, ought to be satisfactory to the
whole country. I wish to convey to your people
who know me, my unqualified conviction that it is
perfectly competent for a new State, when it enters
the Union, to make a compact with the United
States, limiting the State's sovereignty in certain
respects, as the proposed constitution for Utah, by
a compact therein contained, limits the pardoning
power and the power of amending the constitu-
tion in the matter of polygamy; certain writers in
different parts of the country have very foolishly
asserted that the Mormons of Utah are trying to
play a “trick,” and that when the State has been
admitted the Constitutional inhibition of polygamy
will be repealed! These persons do not see that
any repeal or change of those provisions is made
by the Constitution itself entirely impossible with-
out the consent of Congress. This would be a
good and valid compact between the people of
Utah and the people of the United States, after it
has taken effect, and it ought to satisfy reasonable
men. The Federal Constitution itself contains
many such compacts. It lays prohibitions upon
the States which diminish what would otherwise
be the scope of their sovereignties. If a State
were to do one of the things which are thus pro-
hibited, the Federal government could easily find
means to prevent individuals from availing them-
selves of the benefits of such a breach of the
compact which every State in the Union has made
with the United States by accepting and ratifying
the Federal Constitution. If your proposed con-
stitution shall become the fundamental law of the
State of Utah, not only will all motive and tempta-
tion to contract plural marriages be extinguished,
but such marriages will be rendered legally im-
practicable, and must remain so, unless the Con-
gress of the United States should release the State
from the compact.
	What, then, will the people of Utah gain by be-
ing admitted into the Union under this proposed
constitution? First, the whole subject of poly-
gamy will be withdrawn from the legislation of
Congress, and that relation or condition of social
life will be placed under the ban of a safe and
valid compact between the people of Utah and
the people of the United States, or to express it
differently, but with the same meaning, it will be
placed under a solemn compact between the State
sovereignty and the sovereignty that is established
by the Federal Constitution. Secondly, you will
gain a republican form of government, which no
Territory has or can have in the proper sense of
that description; for as you very justly say Terri-
torial government is not self-government by the
people of any Territory that the United States
possesses.
	There is a very great amount of popular preju-
dice and ignorance prevailing through the country,
against which you have to contend. I am often
amazed to see how everything relating to the re-
ligious beliefs and practices of the Mormons is
misrepresented in journals that ought to know
better. But the public mind is becoming slowly
enlightened on this subject, and by the assembling
of the Congress I hope to see the way smoothed
for those public men who will have to act on this
question of your admission, by enabling their con-
stituents to view that question as they ought. Let
not your people be discouraged; and I pray you,
Mr. Editor, to continue to combat error and so-
phistry in the forcible, spirited and dignified way
in which you have hitherto encountered them.
	With the best wishes for the prosperity and
happiness of all your people, Mormons and Gen-
tiles alike, I am,
				Yours sincerely,
						GEO. TICKNOR CURTIS.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			---------
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Thirty-third Conference of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the Weber Stake of Zion was held
in the Ogden Tabernacle, Sept. 9th, 1887.
After the usual opening exercises, prayer being
offered by Elder R. Ballantyne, the statistical
and financial reports of the several Associations
were read.
	Prest. Sarah Herrick expressed herself as
being much pleased with such a good showing
of the Associations as the reports represented,
and the large attendance at conference to-day
was an evidence of the interest taken by the
young ladies of Zion in the duties of their re-
ligion. She felt the need of the Holy Spirit
in our weakness to assist us in the good work,
and invoked the blessing of the Lord upon all
present, especially upon the speakers, that rich
instruction and counsel might be imparted on
this occasion.
	Coun. E. Y. Stanford said, "The reports
submitted give evidence of improvement in
the Associations throughout this Stake, and
our recent visits among many of them have
satisfied us that the young sisters are working
faithfully in helping to build up the kingdom
of God," and she would exhort them to con-
tinued faithfulness, and even greater diligence
to obtain the blessings designed to be conferred
through these organizations.
	Sister Jane S. Richards remarked, "It is not
the talking we do that will take us to heaven,
but the good works we perform here upon the
earth. We have been told to live pure, up-
right lives. This is our duty, and we should
be careful to obey all good counsels coming
from those over us, especially those of your
parents, who can train you in the knowledge
of God and direct you to exaltation and
glory."
	Coun. Charles F. Middleton said, "In look-
ing over the congregation in this house yester-
day (the Relief Society Conference), I saw
elderly ladies, who had passed through a great
deal of experience in the Church, but who had
not had the privilege that you enjoy of meeting
in their youth in associations of this character,
and receive instructions as you are doing to-
day, from those appointed to preside over you.
There is a great work and great responsibility
resting upon the youth of Zion, both male and
female. You should be careful of the com-
pany you keep, and select and prefer as much
as possible the society of those brought up un-
der the influence of the Improvement Associa-
tions, who lead exemplary lives."
	Sister Emily Shurtliff was indeed pleased to
see so many young ladies present, and taking
such deep interest in these societies. "We
should all be earnest, diligent workers, and
prepare ourselves, by the study of Church
literature; to give a reason for the hope within
us."
	Benediction was then pronounced by Elder
Wm. H. Wright.
	At 2 p.m. conference resumed its session,
prayer being offered by Bro. J. Stanford.
	Sister R. Canfield gave an excellent report
of the 5th Ward Association. This ward had
only been recently organized, through the 4th
Bishop's Ward having been divided into two
wards.
	Coun. R. E. Monch was very pleased to
meet in conference this afternoon. "Among
our many duties we should guard against tale-
bearing. If we hear anything bad about a
person, do not spread it so as to make it worse,
but cultivate the spirit of charity, and treat
everyone kindly, seeking for the Spirit of the
Lord, which guides in the paths of truth and
righteousness."
	Elder Joseph Stanford said, "These Associa-
tions, I am happy to say, are proving a great
benefit to the young people of Zion, but from
the reports I think that the average attendance
at meetings should be increased. It should
be the aim of all to make them attractive. In
rendering the exercises, the motto should be
improvement. Readings, recitations, essays,
etc., should be delivered in a strength of voice
that all can hear; there is nothing so unpleas-
ant, and which detracts so much from a meet-
ing, as a failure to hear the speakers. Regard
should also be paid to punctuation and rhetoric,
that the proper sense and meaning of what is
read or delivered may be conveyed with inter-
esting and edifying effect. Exercises, when
necessary, should be criticised, with a view to
the correction of errors. Those who preside


should, in the discharge of this duty, breathe
the influence of love and kindness, and cor-
rections should be received in the same spirit.
The works you read and study for the most
part are of inspirational origin; they contain
divine truths, and the children of Zion have to
become proficient in all that will make them
morally and intellectually great and powerful.
We should be ambitious to acquire the com-
mand of good language, for under divine
priesthood and blessing, perfect language, in
fact all the arts, sciences, professions, and all
that there is good and great in nature, will be
made subservient to the glory of God and the
happification and blessing of the humble and
obedient of the human race."
	Sister Monch spoke in tongues, and Sister
Russell gave the interpretation, the purport of
which was, that the Saints were to arouse
themselves—"awake, awake, to righteousness!"
and blessing and joy and power awaited them.
An holy influence pervaded the hearts of all.
	The following presidents reported their socie-
ties, bore their testimonies and felt blessed in
being present to enjoy the good influence and
valuable teachings manifested by the speakers:
M. A. Piley, Second Ward, Sarah A. Hart,
West Weber, Annie Taylor, Mound Fort,
Annie Belnap, Fourth Ward, Maria Russell,
Riverdale, M Ferrin, Eden.
	Elder Richard Ballantyne had greatly en-
joyed the meeting; the instructions were valu-
able, and we should make them available to
our benefit by a practice of them. He ex-
horted all to be obedient to the commandments
of God, and in an earnest, feeling manner in-
voked the blessing of the Almighty upon the
daughters of Israel.
	Prest. Sarah Herrick in a few choice remarks
expressed deep satisfaction of feeling for the
good spirit manifest during the meetings of
of this conference, and an appreciation of the
instructions given, and after referring to some
items of business, announced the adjournment
of the conference for three months. Singing,
"School thy feelings," etc. Benediction by
Bro. McIntyre.
			M. CHAMBERS, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	As one of the weak handmaids of the Lord
I can no longer restrain my feelings, but must
give vent to my sentiments, and express my
gratitude to God before all the world, that I
live in this eventful age, when God has again
spoken from the heavens, and the light of day
is dawning upon woman, who has been trampled
under the foot of man for ages; when God in
His infinite mercy is restoring her to that level
for which she was created.
	I feel that every daughter of Zion should 
sing praises to Almighty God for restoring
such glad tidings. It is a very strong proof
 of the divinity of this great Latter-day work,
which we profess to believe in. Think of it, 
girls! think of it, mothers! Do we appreciate
the blessings and privileges we enjoy? The
world call us slaves and dupes, but where in 
all the broad land do women enjoy such free-
dom? Where are they looked upon by their
husbands as their equal, their counselor, if
you please, a helpmeet in very deed? Should
we not, then, educate ourselves to fill such a 
noble position honorably and acceptably before
God? It is a matter of deep reflection for
young women. Inquire of yourselves, what is
the object of your creation? There certainly
must have been a purpose in it. The Scriptures
tell us that, "God created man in His own 
image; male and female created He them." 
Why should woman be considered so far infe-
rior to man? Man has perverted the Gospel,


broken the law and changed the ordinances;
this is why they are.  How beautiful to con-
template the restitution of all things in these
the last days.  The Gospel breaks the fetters
wherewith woman is bound, takes her by the
hand and says, "Woman, know thyself."  The
women of Zion have a great and important 
work to do.  "Man is not without the woman,
nor woman without the man in the Lord."
	Before closing I wish to show my apprecia-
tion of such noble, God-fearing women as
Ruby Lamont, Lula Greene Richards and
others, who dare proclaim the word of God
amid such strong inclinations to follow fashion.
I heartily endorse every word they say, and
feel that there are many of the daughters of
Zion who would gladly accept their doctrine,
were it not for lack of moral courage to make
their first attempt.  But if the leaders in so-
ciety among the Latter-day Saints would ac-
cept and practice it, the rest would gladly
follow.  It is said that "example is better than 
precept."  I believe it true in this case.  How-
ever, I feel that the words of these intelligent
ladies are not lost, but are as bread cast upon
the waters, and will return after many days,
bringing its reward; and if my humble testi-
mony will add any encouragement to those who 
are laboring to elevate women, I will feel
amply paid for having endeavored to en-
courage.


﻿ITEMS FROM UTAH STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	DEAR SISTER WELLS:—After many times
thinking of writing to you, I have now deter-
mined to do so. When I last wrote my hus-
band was absent on his term of imprisonment
for conscience’ sake. I am thankful now he
has returned home in moderate good health
and spirits. During his term we lost one of
our children by death. He was permitted to
come to its burial, a few days before his re-
lease.
	There has been considerable sickness in this
place for some time past, chiefly whooping
cough, and turned to lung disease among
children and babes.
	On the 19th of August last Bro. H. H.
Gluff, Sister A. K. Smoot and myself went up
to Pleasant Valley to visit the Relief Society
and Primary Associations, and to effect an
organization. The late President left the
valley for good, or for the present, at least.
Mrs. M. A. Richard was elected President of
the Relief Society, with Mrs. H. Walton and
Mrs. Balantine as Counselors. For the Prim-
ary Association, Mrs. R. Avery was chosen
President, and Mrs. L. Whimpy and Miss Lizzie
Potter Counselors. We had a very pleasant
trip and visit, found the Saints faithful to their
trust. On our return we stayed over at Mill
Fork, where there is a small branch of the
Church. We there also organized a Primary
Association with about thirty members, with
Mrs. Lewis as President, and Mrs. Kate Wood
and Mrs. Bigley, Counselors. We also had a
nice time there. We left Provo on Aug. 19th,
and returned after a trip of four days.
	The quarterly conference of this Stake, also
the Relief Society was held last week. We
had good meetings, good and timely instructions.
Much was said concerning our children, and
the immorality brought about through excur-
sions.
	I feel it a day of warning to the Saints, as
well as those of the outside world, and we
should be on the alert in word and deed to for-
ward the cause of the kingdom of God on the
earth.
	Your sister in the Gospel covenant,
						MARY JOHN.
	Provo City, Sept 7, 1887.


CHARITY.
	"But the greatest of these is charity" was
the utterance of that great man among men,
the apostle Paul, eighteen hundred years ago,
and the sentence has come sounding down
through the ages in clear ringing tones to the
present time.  Its truth, is echoing in our 
hearts to-day; but, alas, how little of its beauty
and greatness do we see exemplified.  If our
enemy hunger it may be an easy enough mat-
ter to feed him with a few hard crusts that fall
from our table, or on some holiday when bub-
bling over with good will we might vouchsafe
him a slice of cake or plumpudding.  But of 
the charity "that thinketh no evil," that al-
lows to every one his own right to think and
the expression of his thought seems to be a
harder matter.
	We do not quarrel with one another because
our noses are not all of the same length and
our eyes of the same color, yet, in as reasona-
ble a way, there is a readiness to pounce upon
one of differing opinions with a savage willing-
ness to have him burned at the stake, if it were 
only the custom to do such things.  That there 
are such numberless differences of opinion is
a truly blessed state of affairs, for if all per-
sons thought, acted and looked alike this would
be an extremely dull, commonplace sort of a
world.
	The golden rule has not its coinage in the 
instincts of human nature and it is a hard
thing for us always to allow others to do unto
us as we do toward them.  It is so easy and
self satisfying, too, to see wherein others are
wrong, and to condemn all faults and foibles
not our own.
	The dishonest man condemns his drunken
brother, and the hard-hearted man who never 
did a thoroughly good act in his life looks
askance at a weak, unprincipled brother while
his whole manner says, because thy sin is not
my sin, therefore it is deserving of the severest 
penalty.
	In one of the Charles Dickens' stories he
tells of the inoffensive, good little boy, David
Copperfield, who was very illtreated by his
step-father, and the more cruel the treatment
the greater became this dislike until a mere
sight of the boy would throw the step-father
into a rage.  So it appears to be a principle
of human nature that when the strong and
masterful person misuses those who are weak
he comes to dislike and despise them.  But
once let the stronger tenderly care for the
weaker, and work for that one's good even to
the denying of self and he acquires a love that
will make itself felt as the charity that "think-
eth no evil."  Our hearts as well as our minds
grow with what they feed upon.
	Often after years of vigorous, unsatisfying
struggle for the attainment of some of "life's
empty bubbles," when perhaps, careworn and 
misunderstood by our fellowmen we find there
is some one whose touch of sympathetic kindli-
ness causes our hearts to throb with a quick-
ened joy that revivifies and strengthens us and
we exclaim.  "Of the good things of life the
greatest of all is charity."
	There is a sublime beauty expressed in those
precious words "Father forgive them for they
know not what they do."  While all other
voices would be raised to condemn, he, whose
alone was the sinless life, could look with un-
bounded  charity, not upon sin, but upon the 
doer of evil.  If we all can enter the heavenly
school and, sitting at the feet of the Great 
Master, learn to love our neighbor as ourself
and then shall we grow up tall and strong in
"the wisdom that is from above; which is first
pure, then peaceable gentle and easy to be en-
treated, full of mercy and good fruits, without
hypocrisy."—Ex.
								S.B


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MAKE FRIENDS.

     Life is very critical.  Any word may be our
last.  Any farewell, even among joy and merri-
ment, may be forever.  If this truth were but
burned into our consciousness, and if it ruled
as a deep conviction, and a real power in our
lives, would it not give a new meaning to all
our human relationships?  Would it not make
us far more tender than we sometimes are?
Would it not oftentimes put a rein on our rash
and impetuous speech?  Would we carry in
our hearts the miserable suspicious and jealous-
ies that now so often embitter the fountain of
our loves?  Would we be so impatient of the
faults of others?  Would we allow trivial
misunderstandings to build up strong walls be-
tween us and those who ought to stand very
close to us?  Would we keep alive petty
quarrels, year after year, which a manly word
any day would compose?  Would we pass
neighbors or old friends on the street without
recognition, because of real or fancied slight,
some wounding of pride, or some ancient
grudge?  Or would we be so chary of our kind
words, our commendations, our sympathy, our
comfort, when weary hearts all about us are
breaking for just such expressions of interest
or appreciation as we have in our power to
give?—Manford's Magazine.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Nellie Grant Sartoris and one of her
children have arrived in this country for a
visit.

	Queen Carola, of Saxony, has established a
free kindergarten for the benefit of children of
poor laborers on her estate, Sibyllenot, where
she annually spends part of the summer.

	The author of “John Halifax, gentleman"
(Mrs. Craik), well presents in the Forum for
September, a woman’s estimate of the distinc-
tive mental and moral characteristics of men. 

	Denver, Col., is to have a college for women,
modelled after Wellesley and Vassar. The
“Ladies’ College Society," which has the mat-
ter in charge, is to be incorporated, and will
raise $750,000 in real estate and cash.

	Women, according to W. T. F. Donald, a
prominent business man of Atchison, Kan.,
have revolutionized the affairs of that State,
and made it one to be proud of. He thinks
the next decade will see women voting in every
State in the Union.—Pittsburg Despatch.

	Mrs. Dr. Ellis, an American lady, is physician
to the Queen of Corea. She has apartments
in the royal palace at Seoul, and receives a
yearly salary which is equal to eighteen
thousand dollars. She is expected to visit the
queen daily, and remains in call when Her
Majesty is indisposed.

	Helen S. Abbott, of Philadelphia, has been
elected a member of the Philosophical Society
in that city, of which Benjamin Franklin was
one of the fouuders. Only six women have
been eleeted during the one hundred and
twenty years of the society’s existence. The
first lady was Franklin’s friend, the Princess
Dashkoff. The others were Mrs. Mary Somer-
ville, Maria Mitchell, Mrs. Agassiz, and Mrs.
Carl Seiler, of Philadelphia, author of “The
Voice and singing." Miss Abbott is admitted
for what she has done in analytical chemistry.
—Ex.

	The apostles of woman should not fail to
notice that the leading reviews in the London
Athenœum of July 30 are devoted to books
done by women, namely: Miss Kate Norgate’s

[column 2]
"England Under the Angevin Kings,” which
is voted “the standard history of England in
the twelfth century,” Desire Charnay’s "An-
cient Cities of the New World," translated by
J. Gonino and Helen S. Conaut, and Miss
Alma Strettell’s translation of “Spanish and
Italian Folk-Songs, whose work receives en-
thusiastic praise. The works of Miss Norgate
and Miss Strettell are published by Macmillan
& Co.—Boston Beacon.

	Women are acquiring recognition in quarters
where one would least expect it. A cardinal
of the Church of Rome has been in consulta-
tion with the congregation of missionaries at
Brussels concerning the establishment of a
seminary for the education of women to be sent
to preach the Gospel in the French possessions
in Africa. The cardinal expressed his convic-
tion that women were better fitted than men to
convert the African youth. From St. Peters-
burg comes word that the minister of the inte-
rior has submitted to the Imperial Council a
project for the establishment of a university, to
be managed on the plan of that at Heidelberg,
where women may be taught the higher sciences,
including medicine.—Ex.

	Mrs. Hancock says that once, when the
General felt called upon to entertain half a
dozen Sioux chieftains, she helped him in his
task by playing the piano for them. The music
evidently had power to please, if not to“soothe
the savage,” for immediately negotiations com-
menced, through an interpreter, to purchase
the "big captain’s squaw," along with the
"music table.” Beads, robes and blankets
were first offered for the exchange. When the
“big captain” rejected these, supposing the in-
ducements were not sufficient, they added
ponies to an increased number of robes and
trinkets of all kinds. Their indignation and
dissatisfaction were apparent, and quickly
made evident by their leaving the house in
Indian file, without a glance here or there,
seeming deaf to the interpreter’s appeals to re-
turn—Ex.

	I have brought Thomas Jefferson up to think
that it was just as bad for him to listen to a
bad story or a song as for a girl, or worse, for
he had more strength to run away, and that it
was a disgrace for him to talk or listen to any
stuff that he would be ashamed to have Tirzah
Ann or me to hear.- I have brought him up
to think that manliness did’nt consist in hav-
ing a cigar in his mouth, and his hat on one
side, and swearin’ and slang phrases, and a
knowledge of questionable amusements, but in
layin’ hold of every duty that comes to him,
with a brave heart and cheerful face; and
helpin’ to right the wrong and protect the weak,
and makin’ the most and the best of the mind
and soul God had given him. In short, I
have brought him up to think that purity and
virtue are both feminine and masculine, and
that God’s angel’s are not necessarily all she
ones.
	SAMANTHA ALLEN, in Southern Cultivator.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Aug. 9, 1887, as follows:
	Anne C. Spencer, East Greenwich, R. I.,
Toilet Case.
	Sarah W. Trabue, Girard, Ill., Baling
Press.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Mesa City, July 8th, 1887, Emily Stratton, the
beloved wife of John Haskell Pomeroy, born in England,
Aug. 20th, 1860; came to Salt Lake with her parents when
a mere child. She was left at the tender age of two years
without a mother's care. She leaves a fond and devoted
husband, and four children, the youngest a babe of six


days old, and a host of loving friends to mourn her loss.
Always cheerful and pleasant, her bright smile won her
friends wherever her lot was cast. She was a faithful, con-
sistent Latter-day Saint; was a member of the Relief So-
ciety, and for some time a Counselor to the Stake President
of the Y. L. M. I. A., but resigned on account of ill health.
Was Treasurer of that organization at the time of her
death. She died full of faith in the Gospel, and looking
forward to a glorious resurrection with the just.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has taken from our midst our beloved sister, Emily.
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Mesa Relief So-
ciety feel to tender our love and sympathy to the memory
of our departed sister.
	Resolved, That in this our great bereavement we feel to
acknowledge the hand of God, and bow in humble sub-
mission to His will, but realize that in her we have lost a
true friend and faithful laborer in the work of God.
	Resolved, That we hereby tender our love and sympathy
to the family of the deceased, and express an earnest
desire that the Holy Spirit will impart comfort and consola-
tion to them in this hour of deep affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the family of the deceased, a copy sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication, and also placed on the Society
records.
		ELEANOR MORRIS,
		ANN PETERSON,
		SARAH M. POMEROY,
		SARAH RUSSELL,
			Committee.
	DIED, at Mesa City, Sept. 3rd, 1887, Emily Elizabeth,
daughter of John H. and Emily Pomeroy, aged one
month.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	 
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1887.	NO. 9.


CONSOLING THOUGHTS.

When the day, so fast approaching,
	Of a surety begins,
When the Lord has purified us,
	Having washed away our sins,
What a joyous life we'll enter,
	What a glorious time we'll see,
When the Lord, to comfort Zion,
	Sets her captive daughters free!

Be not weary, oh, ye tried ones!
	Your afflictions soon will cease;
And, instead of persecution,
	Ye shall know the balm of peace.
Ye shall feel how bless'd forever
	Are they who love the Lord;
How good it is to serve Him,
	How great the sure reward.

The race is not forever,
	To those who swiftest run;
Nor by the strongest always,
	Are noblest victories won;
But, to those who through th' struggle,
	Unto the end endure,
Ever faithful, patient, humble,
	Are the promises secure.

Be diligent and watchful,
	And do everything you can
To retain the Holy Spirit,
	To assist redemption's plan.
Then shall ye rise and triumph,
	And sweet your rest shall be,
When the Lord shall comfort Zion,
	And set her captives free.

		LULA.
Sept. 16, 1887.	Lula Green Richards


WE ALL ARE HERE.

The summer day's soft light had died,
	And sweet came evening's hour,
With gentle hush and peep of birds
	Within their leafy bower.
A sense of rest and all well done
	That morning’s hour had planned,
 And smiles of love to answer each
	Of her dear household band.

They drew around the table's light
	With pretty work or book,
Her watchful eye sought each dear face
	With thoughtful, tender look.
But little guessed the happy group
	Within that mother's care,
The thoughts that ran like light and shade—
	Of sympathy and prayer.

Adown the path the father's step.
	Came near and nearer still;
They turned from study and from play
	With eager, sweet good will.
And as they clasped his hand, or climbed
	To win a nearer place,
O, sweet the smiles and true the joy
	Upon each loving face.

And like a sweet, yet sad refrain,
	Through all their present bliss,
The mother’s heart says o'er and o'er
	In its own silences:

"Howe'er may wage the world without
	In revelry or sin,
My dearest ones from all their power
	Are safely gathered in.
No prison wall hides from our clasp,
	Husband and father dear.
Nor dreary absence wrings the heart—
	Bless God, we all are here."


She thought of many homes once bright,
	Ere persecution came.
To stand 'tween God and man and tempt
	The "Saint" in truth or name.
With shattered walls of faith and trust,
	Home-wrecks, how sad and drear,
Before her eyes—she whispered low:
	"Thank God, we all are here!"

The breeze so soft at sunset time
	Had swelled to louder gale,
The sky had darkened and she heard
	The swift descending hail.
Yet smiling listened she, and thought,
	"When storms shall gather near
Around dear Zion, may my loved,
	In safety, all be here."

All here. No empty chair to speak
	In sorrow's deepest tone
Of wanderers from Truth, when called
	In prayer before the throne.
And then her heart leaped up to think
	What joy, if when we hear
The Father's call, she still may say:
	"Thank God, we all are here!"

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Sept. 27, 1887.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S VOICE.

	We have arrived at a time in the history of
our Church when individuals have to stand
upon their own foundation, rely upon their own
faith and knowledge concerning the work of
God.
	Now is the time when every person ought to
have a testimony for him or herself, whether
this work that we are engaged is of God or
not. If we do not have the knowledge that it
is true, it shows very plainly that it is because
we have not deserved to know; we have not
asked or we should have received; we have not
knocked or it would have been opened unto us;
we have not sought or we would have found,
in fulfillment of the promise, "Ask, and it shall
be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock,
and it shall be opened unto you; for every one
that asketh, receiveth, and he that seeketh,
findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be
opened." (Matthew, vii, 7).
	Now, my young friends, do you believe that
that passage of Scripture means what it says?
Have you ever tested it? If so, which is it,
true or false? It must be one or the other, and
it is your privilege, your duty to know for
yourself whether that passage is true or not,
for that knowledge is the corner stone in the
foundation of true religion; it is the rock upon
which it is built, even the rock of revelation,
and the "gates of hell shall not prevail against
it."
	If that passage is true, we can ask for de-
sired knowledge or blessings, and if we ask in
faith believing, we shall receive. What a
blessed privilege! Do you not agree with me,
my young friends, that it would be well to "be
on speaking terms with God," and test this
principle? Make Him your friend while you
are young, by heeding the divine injunction,
to "Remember thy Creator in the days of thy
youth." By so doing you will have abundant
evidence that the Gospel of Christ is true.
After having obtained this testimony we must
walk humbly and faithfully, discharging every
duty that is required of us, for our religion is a
practical one, requiring works as well as faith,

[Column 2]

for we show our faith by our works, just as a
tree is known by its fruit.
	The Gospel, or the building up of the king-
dom. give all who desire to be useful an oppor-
tunity to cultivate their talents, extend their
usefulness and be a blessing to mankind, by as-
sisting to build up and promote all the inter-
ests of Zion. No one need feel that there is
nothing for him or her to do in this great Lat-
ter-day work; there is room and work for us
all, old and young, large and small, and all
will receive the reward of their labors; so let
us be diligent and ambitious to perform well
our part, putting our shoulders "to the wheel,"
and bravely lifting our share.
	I have heard some of the elderly people tell,
and have read of others, how they fasted and
prayed for days to receive a knowledge of the
truth of this work, or to receive certain gifts,
how they pleaded with God to grant their peti-
tions, and He did so, giving them the desired
blessing. Do you not think the same cause
would produce the same effect in our day
among the young people? Why is it that
none (to my knowledge) of the young people
who have been born in the Church have any
particular gift, such as many of our parents
possess? Let the youth of Zion answer this
question, and ask themselves if they ever
sought to obtain them as their parents did?
We do not desire these blessings, if we are
not willing to earn them, and how can we ex-
pect to receive something we do not earn. But
it is absolutely necessary for us all to obtain a
testimony that this work, called "Mormonism,"
is true.
		M. E. TEASDALE.


WOMEN IN HISTORY.

ANCIENT.

	Unthinking and uninformed persons are
prone to believe that the condition they see
about them must have existed always, or that
there has never been any great deviation from
the present order of society.
	"Our gardener is immortal," said the rose to
the lily. "So long as I can remember him
there has been no change in him, and the violet,
who died yesterday, told me that he had al-
ways looked just as he does now."
	Thus runs a fable, and the reasoning of the
flowers is the usual reasoning of the crowd.
Because within their observation the present
conditions have existed, therefore they have
always prevailed.
	Thus many persons will maintain that be-
cause during certain centuries, and among
certain nations, women have held a subordinate
place, therefore they have always and every-
where been under similar disabilities. Some
years ago Dr. Howard Bushnell, of Hartford,
wrote an elaborate volume called, "The Reform
Against Nature," in which he endeavored to
prove that woman's natural and eternal posi-
tion was that of an inferior to man; to main-
tain this view either suppressing or per-
verting all the facts of history which would
controvert his position.
	A review of the story of human existence
on this earth may therefore be useful in ex-
ploding some of these erroneous ideas, and
showing that, although by reason of his greater
physical strength, and the disabilities which
maternity imposes upon woman, man has, in
all ages, over a large section of the world,


[Column 1]

﻿forced her to submit to unequal and unjust
laws, yet that there has never been a period in
which the natural equality of woman has not
been in some way acknowledged, and even her
superiority at times admitted.
	If we look for the earliest traces of the ex-
istence of humanity to scientific sources, we
are told that the bones of women and men
have been exhumed from cave sepulchres, where
they have reposed side by side since their
burial, thousands of years ago, when they were
the contemporaries of the cave-bear, the mam-
moth, and other quarternary animals now ex-
tinct; and that, in many cases, the skeletons in-
dicate that there was very little difference in
size between the sexes in those primitive
times.
	It is leaping across a vast geological period
to speak of the mound-builders of this country;
yet as it is possible only approximately to
guess at the age in which they lived and
flourished, and as they were, no doubt in a re-
mote age, the most civilized dwellers on this
continent, we may fairly speok of them as
among the ancient peoples of the world. The
remains that have been discovered in their
tombs and mounds also show that among this
race of small beings the women were about the
same size as the men, and that rank rather
than sex was regarded in the bestowing of funer-
al honors.
	If we turn to the Bible record and read its
dramatic account of the creation of mankind,
we shall find that in the beginning joint do-
minion was given to man and woman (Gen. 1.
26-28) that Eve was the last and crowning
effort of the creative force. Adam evi-
dently, had no idea of superiority over her, for
although the Divine command not to eat of
the tree of knowledge was given to him alone,
when Eve, tempted by the noble ambition tor
wisdom, took of the forbidden fruit and offered
it to him, he uttered no word of objection or
remonstrance, but humbly followed where she
led.
	The presence of Deborah alone gave
victory to the "army of the living God," and
after dispersing the enemies of her people, she
judged Israel for forty years, during which "the
land had peace." Miriam sang the song of
triumph side by side with Moses, and Huldah,
the prophetess, was venerated by kings. The
severities of the Jewish law by which women
were excluded from the priesthood, and even
from active participation in the services, and
condemned to a subordinate position, have no
warrant in the Bible story. The description
of a perfect woman given in Proverbs (xxxi
10-31), portrays her as not only excelling in
all the duties of the wife, the mother, and the
housekeeper, but also as buying and selling
land, dealing with merchants, and discharging
the public responsibilities of a citizen.
	Turning now to the pages of profane history,
in the hoary land where the human story had
its beginning in ancient Egypt, women and
men shared equally the pleasures and the la-
bors of life. In Egyptian mythology Isis and
Osiris, sister and brother, wife and husband,
rode together in the chariots of the Sun, the
woman always named before the man, as if in
honor the higher. The crown descended
often in the female line, and the achievements
of Hatasu, the great queen who brought to
perfection the system of irrigation, are re-
corded in monuments as magnificent as those
which commemorate the deeds of Rameses II.
At a later period, under the Ptolemies, even
where the husband was of the blood royal, the
wife was often the acknowledged sovereign; as
in the case of the famous Cleopatra, whose
brother and spouse had no power except of obe-
dience to her will.
	The sculptures which record the social cus-
toms of the Egyptians depict women and men
together at the council board, in the market

[Column 2]

place, and in festal scenes, showing that
women were active not only in social life, but
in business pursuits also.
	Going further eastward, we find the condi-
tion of women much inferior, and that in Ori-
ental lands, from the dawn of the historic pe-
riod, they were held in a condition but little
above slavery.

		Semiramis, queen
of Assyria, carried her nation to a pitch of
greatness it had never before attained, and the
tremendous achievements of her reign are not
over-stated in the proud inscription which she
herself composed for her own tomb:
	"Nature has given me the body of a woman,
and my actions have made me the equal of
the most valiant of men. I have governed
the Empire of Ninus, which extends over al-
most all Asia; before me, none of the Assyrians
had seen the sea; I have brought to their
knowledge four great seas, so far distant that
no one before this had reached their borders.
I have turned the courses of rivers to water
sterile lands, which I have rendered fertile. I
have constructed fortresses, and pierced roads
through impracticable rocks; I have driven
my war-chariots over paths which the wild
beasts themselves could not climb. And amid
so many toils I have yet found time for my plea-
sures and my friends."
	Even among those nations of the East where
women were most oppressed, the virtues and
the intellect, which have in no age been con-
fined to one sex, rendered some women illus-
trious. On the flowery plains of India, the
Taj mahal still records the graces of Nour-
mahal, whose story belongs indeed to a later
period. It may properly be mentioned here,
in considering the condition of oriental women,
while in that land where female infants are
destroyed as worthless, where girls are sold to
the most hideous slavery, and ladies of the
highest rank are crippled for life to insure their
helplessness—even in China—women have oc-
casionally been distinguished by their great
learning, and to the Empress Sisling-chi, we
are indebted for the invention of silken fabrics,
with all the great industries that have sprung
from her discovery.
	Returning westward, we find that the Greeks
denied all education to their legitimate wives,
and, as a result, women who were not wanton
were willing to join the hetiroe, that they might
gratify a thirst for knowledge, and Aspasia
was the intellectual equal of Pericles and of
Socrates. Plato, the greatest writer of the
ancient world, with a vision that looked be-
yond the narrow field of present limitations
and prejudices, pictured in his "Divine Re-
public" a society in which the absolute equality
of the sexes should be acknowledged, and in
which women, the sharers with their brothers
in physical and mental development, should
be their companions in all advantages, and
their counselors and associates in public mat-
ters.
	Among the Romans women were at first
held in an entirely subordinate position, not al-
lowed to hold property, to have any control
over their children, and restricted in dress and
adornments.
	But as the years went on, there was a con-
stant struggle on the part of the opposite sex
to attain greater liberty. The laws were
gradually modified until from a condition of
slavery to their husbands which followed "the
rape of the Sabines," the women of the Em-
pire had achieved so much independence that
the Historian Maine says:
	"The jurisconsults had evidently at this time
assumed the equality of the sexes as a principle of
the code of equity. The situation of a Roman
woman, whether married or single, became one
bf great personal and property independ-
ence."
	In the history of that mighty empire of the

[Column 3]

ancient world, women played an important
part. Cornelia and Volumni and Hortensia
had wide influence on the destinies of their
day, and Augusta was for a while absolute em-
press in all but the name.
	The ruder nations of Western Europe hon-
ored women from the earliest times, and Tacitus
relates how the German Warriors declared
that "in all great questions we consult our
women." In the coarser virtues of a savage
age women also excelled; on more than one oc-
casion the Roman historians record the bravery
of barbarian heroines, and after the Cimbrian
men were conquered, their wives fought with
so furious a valor that it won a grim tribute of
admiration even from their enemies.
	A review of the condition of women in the
ancient world ought not to close without some
mention of the Amazons, those warrior maidens
who, whether they formed a nation by them-
selves, as was claimed by some writers, or were
only the braver spirits among a people that
acknowledged the supremacy of their sex, cer-
tainly had a real existence. Monuments to
their prowess existed until a recent period,
and medals which are yet preserved in muse-
ums bear testimony to their deeds. The first
Amazon of whom there is any mention was
Hippolyta, who appeared in the mythologic
age and ventured to do battle with the mighty
Hercules himself. During the siege of Troy,
Pentheselea, queen of the Amazons, came with
her warriors to aid the Trojans.
	At a later period, and within the historic
times, Thalestris, "queen of the country of the
Amazons lying beyond the Thermodoon," had
an interview with Alexander the Great, which
is minutely described by Quintus Curtius. It
is not possible, indeed, to dismiss the stories of
the Amazons as wholly fable, since Diodorus,
Justinian, Plutarch, and Grotius, as well as
Quintus Curtius, give elaborate accounts of
the customs and appearance of these warrior
women; and if their testimony on this subject
is rejected, a large part of accepted history
must go with it.
	LILLIE DEVERAUX BLAKE in Dress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Dr. Fanny Dickinson, of Chicago, is a dele-
gate to the Interstate Medical Congress, which
met in Washington last week. She is the first
of her sex ever admitted to such a gathering.
The world moves, and deserving women move
with it.—Philadeldhia Call.
	Mrs. Lucas, of London, Miss Willard, of
Chicago, and Mrs. Hannah Whitall Smith, of
Philadelphia, have issued a circular in which
they ask Christian women everywhere to ob-
serve November 12 and 13 as days of prayer
for a divine blessing upon every form of tem-
perance work in the world.
	Frederick Douglass has returned from an
extended European tour. He said to a re-
porter, "I have been abroad on a pleasure
trip. I visited England, Ireland, Scotland,
France, Italy, Greece and Egypt, and was most
kindly received everywhere. I visited the
French Senate, and was most cordially treated,
nowhere, by a single word, a single look, was
disapproval expressed of my color or the kinks
in my hair." This was his third visit to Eng-
land. He went there forty-one years ago as a
slave. He left the United States for safety, as
there was then a very vigorous effort to enforce
the Fugitive Slave Law, and he feared capture.
In England money was procured to set him
free. "It was here," said Mr. Douglass, "that
forty-one years ago I received the bill of sale
of my own body. My owner agreed to let me
go for $750. The money was given by two
sisters, Ellen and Ann Richardson, living at
Newcastle on-Tyne. They are still living. One
is seventy-nine and the other over eighty years
old.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MOTHER.

Two years have rolled round,
	And a part of another,
Since I last saw the face
	Of you, darling mother; 
Now longing to see you,
	The fates still decree
Another six months
	We divided must be.

Although fate has denied me
	One glimpse of your face,
 I have ne'er found the one
	That could fill mother's place.
  In joy or in sorrow,
	In sickness or health,
A mother's dear love
	Is more precious than wealth.

Although for the present
	We divided must be,
My thoughts ever tenderly
	Dwelling on thee,
Will cherish your kind words
	And acts of the past,
And hopefully trust
	In a meeting at last.

May God's choicest blessings
	Forever rest on you,
May health, peace and happiness
	Never go from you;
May sorrow and trouble
	Keep far from your home,
And may you be prospered
	Through all time to come,

When the cold snows of winter
	Have melted and gone,
And the trees and the plants
	Their green robes have put on,
Then my hopes, like the flowers,
	Will spring up anew,
For I trust in the spring
	I'll again meet with you.

	MAY L. MARLER.
Soda Springs, Oct. 21, 1886.


[Column 1]

REMINISCENCES.

	"I stood beside the self-same rippling brook,
		The soft wind whispered to me as of yore,
	And all the landscape wore the conscious look
		Of having known me many years before.
	All things familiar seemed, and yet how strange,
	To think in me how passing great the change."

	Going over old places, that have once been
familiar, awakens in the mind many recollec-
tions that have slept, as it were, in forgetfulness.
Seeing an old friend, one we had known in the
past, but who had almost faded out of memory,
what a train of kindred associations it calls up.
We are all of us, perhaps, more or less suscep-
tible to these impressions and remembrances,
yet they differ, no doubt, in strength and force,
and in degrees of intensity in different indi-
viduals. The present age is one in which the
fashion, one might say the rage, for the antique
prevails; yet more in tangible forms than senti-
ment. The young people of modern society
glory in  old paintings, not always for the
painting itself, but the simple fact that it is
old. Old china, old household furniture, even
the spinning wheels, either for wool or flax, on
which the ancient dames, their ancestresses, did
"a good day's work" of a given number of
skeins, forty rounds to a knot on the reel and
sixteen knots to the skein exact; these old
wheels are bronzed and decorated with rib-
bons. Immense pots and kettles, in which
their great-grandmothers made soap, or cider
apple-sauce, or pumpkin butter, or perhaps the
more delicious maple sugar, these, too, are now
considered ornamental; once they were necessi-
ties in domestic labors.
	While visiting in the Eastern States, not
long ago, I had a very good opportunity to see
and to hear much of this furore for "the old."
Tea parties, where the oldest-fashioned costumes
were worn, trimmed with the oldest laces of

[Column 2]

the most curious patterns; then the style of
table etiquette must correspond; the conversa-
tion must be of the superstitious order—ghosts,
witches, haunted houses and gnomes, being
interwoven, and all colored deep with mystery,
that not even a graduate from Smith College
or Cornell could unravel; nor would they try,
that would take away the charm. Often, when
hearing of these little incidents, I used to
think I should have an inexhaustible stock of
material for future use; but as yet I have used
comparatively little in any way of the fund I
collected. Nor have I digested it, either; it
still remains in its crude form as I gathered it
here a little, and there a little. It is pleasant
and gratifying to re-visit the scenes of one's
childhood, or to go over historic ground, and
to call upon famous or celebrated people; in
any and all of these there is a charm that is
more easily understood than expressed. But
when one associates constantly the ideal and
the real, and sees more than the actual sur-
roundings, it is almost like revelation. I think
I know what it is to be practical, but if there
is no poetry in the running brook, and no idea
conveyed to the mind, except its utility, how
very commonplace it would be. Yet when a
child I was told again and again that the brook
that I loved so much to listen to, that seemed
to me a dear companion, and with which I oc-
casionally conversed, was "not all my fancy
painted it," and compared to the large rivers
it was of little value, it served no particular
purpose, except to beautify the landscape, and
the boys now and then caught a few speckled
trout in its waters, that the dandelions and
long grasses and cowslips were very homely.
Still, notwithstanding all the depreciation of
my playmates, somehow or other I loved this
little winding, rippling brook, and it was to me
an ideal picture in my mind, with all the set-
tings and colorings of an idealistic vision. It
wound through and out of a hemlock grove,
one of the most romantic spots that I have
ever seen. Here in my girlhood I rambled up
and down hour after hour, reveling in dream-
land and drinking in the external beauty and
quietude of this, to me, perfect bower of grace
and beauty.
	Nothing ever brings back to me the peculiar
aroma of the hemlock. I remember it distinct
from all other perfumes; more intensely fragrant
than flowers, and more capable of diffusing its
odor. The sighing of the pines, poetical as it
may seem, and is, for I, too, realize and appre-
ciate the weird and thrilling refrains they sing,
but the hemlock woods, in point of beauty and
exclusive fascination, are still more charming.
I am proud to confess my partiality for New
England hemlock. If I could choose a resting
place, where my friends and loved ones might
come and tenderly linger, remembering how I
loved them, it would be such a place as I knew
in childhood; beneath the sweeping boughs of
fragrant hemlock, where the tangled vines grow
thick and luxuriant, and mosses and ferns,
soft as velvet tapestry, with here and there a
snow-white blossom peeping from under the
mass of dark evergreen, or a few scarlet berries
that cluster together, making a beautiful con-
trast to the dark green, and all the while the
brook sings on and on a ceaseless strain, and
the zephyrs whisper melodiously low and sweet,
or the evening breeze sighs and moans and
groans 'mid the overhanging boughs, or the
night wind whistles shrill and sharp, then
softens to the mournful refrain of a hymn to
the dear ones departed.
	But I digress; I did not mean to speak of
death, or graves, or burial places, but of the
places which have made such perfect pictures
for me in memory's gallery. Wherever I went,
it mattered not who was with me, I was in
reality as much alone in soul-thought as though
no human life was near me. I found not one
whose feelings were like mine. These were not

[Column 3]

sacred places to them, but so common that they
wondered to see me gather up fragments of the
past, and spend so much time in tumble-down
churches and ruins of old houses, but most of
all to traverse woods and fields and by-paths,
closed since the railroads came, or discontinued
for nearer and safer ones. The little red
schoolhouse under the hill, where I taught one
summer, the last one spent in dear New Eng-
land, just to test my capacity for teaching,
since a dollar and a half a week was then con-
sidered a good salary, and many of the young
teachers, "boarded round," and the very fact
of "going through an examination" was a per-
fect terror to a bashful girl of fifteen, but I
made up my mind, and though I trembled like
a frightened bird, "I passed;"—much to my dis-
appointment the school house was gone, and a
small brick one had been built on the other 
side of the country road. They offered to show
it to me; I cared not for it, it was not the picture
I wanted, and I looked with a sort of conde-
scension, as it were, upon the rather self-confi-
dent young teacher who essayed to tell me how
difficult she found it to conform to the habits
of the quiet country life among the hills, and
no wonder I thought it absurd, when it seemed
to me such a restful place, where there was no
whirl or bustle or excitement, and one might
wander "fancy free" over the hills and through
the meadows, day in and day out, aside from
school hours, and no questions asked, no diffi-
cult problems to solve, no newspapers even to
read except the prosy country journal, and you
know beforehand all the jokes, and the only
interest in it would be the regulation poem, by
some old maid, who wrote for mere pastime.
	If the school house was gone, the old low
brown farm house: where I boarded that sum-
mer, was still standing, and when we drove up
the slanting road, I fancied I could see the
kindly, pleasant faces of the farmer and his
good wife, and the sanded floor, and the green
bushes in the fireplace, and the snow-white
linen, and all the plain household furniture, as
it was so many years ago. I insisted upon
stopping, and found all were strangers, but
very genial, and willing to show me over the
old place.
	The farmer and his wife were dead, and all
those I had been associated with there were
gone. I went into the room where I used to
sleep, remembering so well all its former ap-
pearance, the white dimity curtains, tied with
blue ribbon, and the scent of the lilacs and
roses coming thro' the open window, and the
dear old southernwood, and here I had enjoyed
the quiet after school hours; and in the early
morning, when on my way to the school room,
the troops of children, merry, laughing little
girls and boys, would meet me half-way down
the road with fresh flowers, and I was so happy,
and life seemed so bright and joyous, and no
shadow fell across my pathway—now after all
these long years, I soliloquized, where are all
these laughing, merry little folks? Grown to
sober men and women, many dead and forgot-
ten in the places that once knew them. Each
had gone his separate way and filled a place
peculiarly his own. Our ways are scattered,
and our work diversified. We meet occasion-
ally on the great highway with those we knew
in childhood, but even then our duties may lie
far apart.
	I traveled thirty miles from Boston on the
train to find a dear school friend of my girl-
hood days. I had no idea how she would re-
ceive me (as she knew I was a Mormon), but
I risked it for the old love of school days I had
cherished. My heart beat fast as I went up the
steps and rang the bell. I asked for Mrs.
L——; in a moment she came. I rose; she
gave me one searching look, and I said, "I
have come from afar to see you." She put out
both her hands, and each repeated the other's
name, and my dear friend said, "It is like one
risen from the dead!"	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT, office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	October 1, 1887.


OCTOBER, 1887.

The October Conference of this year, 1887, is
likely to be the largest conference for many years,
if not the most numerously attended one ever
known. Thousands of people from different parts
of Utah and adjacent States and Territories are
expected, and every preparation is being made by
merchants and business people to offer induce-
ments to purchasers. The Home Dramatic Com-
pany mean to make the Theatre a pleasant resort
for amusement, and the several committees ap-
pointed to secure accommodations for those who
have not friends in the city, will ensure increased
comfort to those who come from a distance. The
meeting of old friends long separated, is one of
the happy features at conference time. Salt Lake
has missed this the last few years, and if confer-
ence dues come twice a year regularly, its having
been held in other localities of late, makes it an
event now seemingly of more importance than
formerly. There will, no doubt, be a spiritual feast
for all those who attend, and this is a time when
there seems to be a greater need of the Spirit and
power of the Gospel, on account of the varied
difficulties under which this people are at present
laboring.


[Column 1]

MRS. J. W. BARCLAY.

	With deep regret we read recently of the sudden
death, the result of an accident, of Mrs. J. W.
Barclay, a most honorable and interesting woman,
and a good and staunch friend of the Mormon
people. She visited Salt Lake City with her hus
band in 1885, and met many of the people here.
Mr. J. W. Barclay, her husband, is a member of
Parliament from Forfarshire, Scotland, and has
written intelligently and ably on the "Mormon"
question in popular journals, and has also pub-
lished a little work setting forth his views and
opinions touching the subjects considered so un-
popular in the great world outside who look upon
the matter with so much dislike and prejudice.
Mr. Findlay, who accompanied Mr. and Mrs. Bar-
clay here, and spent a short time in this city with
them (guests of John W. Young), said once or
twice to the writer that Mr. Barclay ought not to
receive all the praise and credit of writing the
very excellent articles in defense of this people,
for he knew that Mrs. Barclay had a large share
in the work, and was in part the author. She was
indeed a very large-hearted and noble-minded
woman, and won the esteem and admiration of
those who met her while here on a brief visit.
	She excelled in conversation, and to hear her
converse was a privilege; yet she was not one to
do all the talking, making herself the centre, but
drew others out, and listened with interest and
profound respect even to Mormon women. At
the time of Mrs. Barclay's death she was paying
a visit to a Russian lady at Mussiden, Dordagne,
France, not far from Bordeaux, in company with
her brother, Mr. Phillip Novelli, and her sister,
Mrs. Williams. While out riding on the 21st of

[Column 2]

August, she was thrown from her horse and re-
ceived severe injuries. She fell on her head, and
a blood vessel burst, causing partial paralysis.
She was at once conveyed to the Hospital at
Mussiden, and a London physician was sent for
who attended her till her decease, which took
place on the 3rd of September. She remained
unconscious from the time of the accident. Mr.
Barclay was in this country, and received the
shocking news of his wife's death while in Denver,
Colorado. He immediately started for New York,
and took passage on the steamship Brittanie,
which sailed on the 21st instant for Liverpool."
	"Mrs. Lilian Alice Barclay was the daughter of
the late Mr. A. H. Novelli, merchant of Hyde
Park, London, and was married to Mr. Barclay in
1882."
	Mrs. Barclay was a gentle, refined and accom-
plished lady. She was pleased with her visit to
America, and particularly with her stay in Utah.
She appreciated everything connected with the
settlement and improvements made in these val-
leys, and wondered at the untiring industry and
patient endurance of hardships, women must have
experienced in traveling as they did across the
weary desert plains, and undergoing all the priva-
tions incident to the establishment of a new colony
so far from civilization. She manifested a deep
interest in these matters in her conversation, and
her confidence in the sincerity of the people, and
their devotion to the religion they had embraced
was so real, as to convince all who formed her ac-
quaintance that she was one among a thousand of
the society women of the day. Such women are
like rare jewels in the midst of the circle in which
they move, and their influence a blessing to all
who come within their reach.
	Mrs. Barclay will be missed, and deeply
mourned by husband, relatives and friends, and
can never be forgotten; she was a woman who drew
all hearts towards her,and having once been known
would be distinctly remembered ever afterward.
We most sincerely sympathize with the bereaved
husband and relatives, for we realize what a com-
fort and blessing her companionship must have
been to those around her, and to her husband,
what a heavy loss he has sustained.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have on hand reports from several Stakes
of conferences and meetings, that will appear in
due time. We have Juab, Box Elder, San
Juan and others. We have given rather lengthy
minutes of the sisters’ conference in Salt Lake,
on account of President Eliza R. Snow Smith be-
ing present, and speaking at each meeting, after
her long absence from among the people, because
of her delicate health.
	WE very gratefully acknowledge the gift of
some beautiful and delicate ferns, gathered in the
woods of New Zealand by one of the missionaries,
Bro. Davis, of South Cottonwood. They are a
most charming variety, and one with a fertile im-
agination might weave a pretty sketch of the
natural scenery of the country just from such hand-
some and artistic specimens as those which Sister
Elizabeth Davis brought to this office recently.
Though one may not have the means or the op-
portunity to travel, it is always pleasant to be re-
membered by one’s friends with little tokens from
other countries far away. Many thanks for the re-
membrance.
	WE had the pleasure of attending the sisters’
Conference of Juab Stake in company with Sister
E. S. Taylor. The meetings were held in the
Nephi meeting house, on Friday and Saturday,
the 23rd and 24th of September, and were very en-
joyable and very well attended, great interest
being manifested in each organization. The first
day, Friday, was occupied by the Relief Society
exclusively, and Saturday morning the Primary


Associations held their conference, and the Y. L.
M. I. A. in the afternoon. Our visit there was a
very interesting one, and we found the sisters who
labor there in Societies or Sunday Schools alive to
to their duties and the responsibilities resting upon
them in this important period of time.


A DELIGHTFUL MEETING.

	(The meeting of the sisters, held in the 14th
Ward, on Saturday, September 3rd, was one of
unusual interest. The gathering was large.
	After the opening exercises, President M. I.
Horne gave the time to the sisters to occupy as
they might feel led by the Holy Spirit. Counselor
E. Howard was addressing the congregation from
the stand, when surprise and joy suddenly filled
every heart and lighted up each countenance.
This happy effect was occasioned by the entering,
unannounced, of Zion's venerable, honored and
beloved Priestess and Poetess,Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith. This being her first appearance in public
since her recovery from the very severe illness
which she has lately endured, it was no wonder
that the hearts of her sisters should overflow with
unspeakable pleasure and gratitude at again be-
holding her in their mid t.
	Sister Howard closed her remarks, and by in-
spiration, the leader of the singing started the
favorite hymn,

	"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest
	In the high and glorious place."

Every one sang, and every one wept tears of un-
utterable praise, love and thanksgiving.
	The singing closed, and Sister Eliza arose and
addressed the delighted congregation at some
length in her own clear and distinct voice, and
calm, dignified manner.
	The substance of her remarks were, that Zion
must be purified; that the work of cleansing will
not cease until this end is accomplished. As indi-
viduals we must so live that faith may be in-
creased within us, drawing nearer and nearer to
our God day by day. We must not allow our-
selves to entertain the least hard feeling towards
any one, not even our enemies, and those who
persecute us.
	Following President E. R. Snow Smith's re-
marks, many of the sisters bore testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, the goodness, mercy and
power of God, and also of the healing, prophetic
and marvelously consoling gifts with which the
prophetess Eliza is endowed.
	The meeting was certainly one to be ever
cherished with loving gratitude in the memories of
those who were so favored as to be present.
		L. G. R.)


REUNION OF THE PRATT FAMILY.

	About 200 members, relatives and friends of the
families of the late Apostles Parley P. and Orson
Pratt assembled at the residence of Sister Marion
R. Pratt in the 19th Ward, September 19th, in
honor of the 76th anniversary of the late Apostle
Orson Pratt. There were present representatives
from the families of four brotherse, viz.: Anson,
William D., Parley P. and Orson Pratt. Among
the invited guests were Prest. D. H. Wells, Prest.
A. M. Cannon, Patriarch John Smith, Elders A.
M. Musser, William Willis, Joseph Bull, Sen.,
Bishop Frederick Kesler, Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, Presendia L. Kimball, Zina D. H. Young,
Susan Snively Young, and many others.
	The spacious lawn was surrounded with double
width sheeting, and a large canvas formed an
awning over the seats and platform. The stars
and stripes were waving to the breeze, denoting
liberty and freedom. A large American flag fes-
tooned the platform, upon which sat an organ, and
on each side stood large poplar trees, from which


[Column 1]

hung the life size portraits of the late Parley P.
and Orson, painted by the artist, Lorus Pratt. Ad-
joining the lawn, and under the shade of the grace-
ful poplars, a table, 100 feet long, was spread with
the bounties of life in great profusion, and flowers
decorated the board. The life size likenesses of
Parley P. and Orson, which were arranged at each
end of the table, seemed to be looking on the
scene with satisfactory approbation. The coat of
arms of the Pratt family, nicely executed with the
pen by Valton Pratt, hung conspicuously on the
wall of the house. About 3 p.m. the whole assem-
bly took seats at the table, and after grace to the
Giver of these bountiful blessings by Prest. A.
M. Cannon, regaled themselves with the tempting
viands which were profusely provided for the oc-
casion.  After dinner the company repaired to the
lawn, and were called to order by Elder Milando
Pratt, and the following programme rendered:
	Opening hymn, "Lo, the Gentile chain is
broken." Prayer by Elder Parley P. Pratt. The
following opening address, written by Elder Laron
Pratt, was read by Elder Milando Pratt:
BRETHREN, SISTERS AND FRIENDS:
	I have been called upon to make the opening
address on this interesting occasion. I am very
much pleased to see before me so large a gather-
ing of relatives and friends, and in the name of
the family I bid you a hearty welcome, and hope
peace, joy, thankfulness, and kindly feeling will
characterize this gathering.
	It is very good, very pleasant and profitable to
have such family reunions, wherein we can inter-
change thoughts, greetings and remembrances,
and
RENEW OLD ASSOCIATIONS,
and I hope to see many such gatherings, that a
feeling of love and affection may disseminate
among us, and bring us into still closer relations
of kinship.
	We meet to-day to celebrate an occasion which
should be to us a pleasant memory, and to con-
verse of one whom we all loved and esteemed,
who filled the measure of his creation and has
gone hence to render an account of his doings
here in the flesh, and to continue the good work in
a higher sphere.
	Our father, relative and friend. Orson Pratt,
whose seventy-sixth birthday anniversary we are
celebrating, lived to the alloted age of man, being
a few days over 70 years of age when he died.
He was a man of humble mien, possessed of great
intelligence and many sterling qualities of heart,
the most conspicuous among which was his
staunch integrity and valiant, unflinching defense
of the principles of the Gospel which he advoca-
ted. Fifty years of his life were given to the pro-
mulgation of the principles of truth. Earthly
honors and ambitions were as nothing to him. The
glittering bauble of worldly wealth had no attrac-
tion compared to the beauty and glory of human
salvation. These things never made him swerve
from the path he had chosen. He was a friend to
all humanity in the fullest sense, when the spiritual
condition of mankind was concerned. His con-
stant thought was how to elevate his fellow beings
and fit them for a more exalted plan of usefulness.
His heart was set upon doing the greatest amount
of good to the greatest number, and performing a
grand and glorious work for the salvation of the
sons and daughters of God. From the time he
was a youth of nineteen until he was taken from
our midst,
HE LABORED INCESSANTLY AND HUMBLY
for the welfare of mankind. His mind was wholly
devoted to accomplishing the purposes of God, as
he understood them, and he went forth without
purse or scrip and traveled very extensively on sea
and land, spreading the Gospel of life to many na-
tions of the earth, prophesying of the things that
were coming to pass and of the destruction that
would overtake the wicked and corrupt.

[Column 2]

	Few men have labored so incessantly and earn-
estly for the accomplishment of such a grand and
glorious purpose as the saving of poor fallen hu-
manity. And as his prophetic voice was raised
long and loud in proclaiming the glorious princi-
ples of salvation to the nations of the earth while
he was here in the flesh, so, also, will his works
and teachings, left on record, speak as with the
voice of thunder to those whom he has left behind.
Such a work as he has performed will leave an
indelible impression upon those who have heard
him in life. It needs no special exertion on our
part to keep him in remembrance, for although he
has filled his earthly mission and laid down an
earthly form, hls work among the people of God
will never die, and may it always be kept green
among his family by pleasant gatherings like the
present.
	Again, his great mind was constantly exercised
not only in relation to the salvation of the living,
but also the
SALVATION OF THE DEAD;
those who had died without a knowledge of the
Gospel. So earnestly did he wish to secure to
them all eternal life in the presence of their Hea-
venly Father, that he spent considerable time in
helping to compile a book of records of the Pratt
family and its branches containing over 3000
names. From this record we can now trace our
lineage, with its numerous branches some 300
years. During the latter part of his lifetime he se-
lected most of these names and then called upon
his family and relations in this territory to perform
certain ordinances in the house of the Lord for
these deceased ancestors and friends; thus open-
ing to them their prison doors in the spirit
world.
	But he was far from doing all he intended. He
has left this unfinished work for his sons and
daughters, his relations and connections to con-
tinue until it is accomplished. Should we not be
proud to labor in this noble work which is al-
ready planned out for us? We should wake up to
the necessity of bestirring ourselves in the matter,
and unite as one in such a glorious purpose. We
must remember that life is short, and we were not
born to waste away our time in idle pleasures.
Our Heavenly Father gave us mortal existence
for a little season to see what use we will make of
it, and if we do good we will be worthy of a bet-
life; but if we throw away our opportunities, then
our chance of eternal life will be commensurate
therewith.
	My brothers and sisters, let us be
FAITHFUL, EARNEST AND VALIANT
in the good work; let us be united with love and
affection for one another; treat one another with
consideration and kindness, being charitable in
all things, aud follow the illustrious example set
before us by our father and friend, that our minds
may be filled with the light and intelligence of the
Spirit of God, and when our earthly career is
ended we can look back over our lives with satis-
faction and glorify God therefor.
	May the Spirit of God rest upon you, that your
joys and pleasures may be unbounded this day, in
the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Song, Miss Viola B. Pratt; Recitation, Ortherus
Pratt; Violin Solo, Prof. Willard Weihe; Duet,
Mrs. Ethelmina Pratt and daughter Maud; Reci-
tation, Miss Ruth Eldredge; Song, with guitar
accompaniment, Mrs. Lizzie Felt; Music, har-
monicas and guitar, Valton and Samuel Pratt aad
Walter Musser; Song, Miss Claribell Ridges;
Maori Song, Milson R. Pratt; Quartett, Libbie,
Viola and Mathoni Pratt, and Wm. Bailey. Ap-
propriate and encouraging remarks were made,
and interspersed throughout the programme, by
President D. H. Wells, President A. M. Cannon,
Elders A. M. Musser, William Willis with song,
Alma Pratt, and Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, Zina

[Column 3]

D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kimball and others.
The following Tribute to Orson Pratt was then
read:
A TRIBUTE TO ORSON PRATT.

TO THE COMMITTEE ON INVITATION:

	DEAR BRETHREN:—I hereby acknowledge the
receipt of an invitation to attend the commemora-
tion of the birthday of Orson Pratt (deceased)
by his numerous family and many friends, to take
place on the 19th inst. I very much regret being
unable to be present on that occasion, previous
arrangements having been made to do vicarious
work for the dead of my father's house, in Logan
Temple. It would have gratified me much to have
participated with you in the celebration of the
natal day of so great and good a man as ORSON
PRATT—a man who did honor to the names of
Husband, Father and APOSTLE. He was a pro-
found student of nature. He attained the dazzling
height in the realms of mathematics to which but
few men ascend in any one generation. He was
no less profound in his acquirements of divine
knowledge, as his many works abundantly attest.
His logical acumen, and unusual mental powers,
were brought to bear in lucid reasoning to portray
and establish the faith and doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints in so
masterly a manner, that many thousands of the
disciples of that faith owe their conversion to the
truth to his earnest and extensive labors at home
and abroad. By divine inspiration, he has left an
impress upon this generation that will not be
effaced. He has left behind him choice memories,
that will live in the recollections of a host of
veterans in the great cause of humanity, and a
name and fame  that will survive the loftiest monu-
ments of the world.
	Yours fraternally,
		GEO. G. BYWATER.
Sept. 17, 1887.
	At about sundown the benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Joseph Bull, after which the
lawn was beautifully illuminated with engine head
light lamps set at each end of the lawn, and the
younger members of the various families enjoyed
themselves in the romp and dance. In addition
to the accomodations already mentioned for the
pleasure of the gathering, there were nicely ar-
ranged croquet grounds, swings, two large tents
pitched, etc., etc., throughout the garden and
orchard, and the children, from the babies upward,
enjoyed themselves immensely.
	Before his death, the late Apostle Orson Pratt
was very fastidious about having family reunions,
and one was contemplated and arranged to take
place immediately following the October Confer-
ence, in the year in which he died, and so anxious
was he about its taking place, that he did not want
it deferred should he himself be unable to attend,
or should he pass away. But he died on the 3rd
of October, 1881, and his funeral was held at the
commencement of the conference, therefore the
family did not feel like holding the reunion so soon
after his demise, and it was postponed.
	Following is a brief account of the ancestry of
the illustrious Apostles Parley P. and Orson
Pratt:
	About the year 1632, Leiut. Wm. Pratt and his
reputed brother, John, came from the parish of
Stevenage, in Hertfordshire, England.
	It is supposed they first came to Cambridge,
Mass., in 1632, or previously. They afterwards
settled at Hartford, in 1636. William sold his
land in Hartford about 1645, and removed to Sat-
brook, where he became a large land holder. It
appears, from the records of the State and other
sources, that he was a man of no inconsiderable
note in the colony, as he represented the town of
Saybrook in the General Assembly of the Legisla-
ture some twenty-three sessions, up to the year of
his decease.


The pedigree of Lieut. Wm. Pratt, the settler,
can be traced backward three generations, that is,
to his great-grandfather, Thomas Pratt, of Bal-
dock, in Hertfordshire, who died in Feb. 1539, just
100 years previous to the date when the settlers of
Hartford drew their home lots. The line of de-
scent is as follows:
	Thomas Pratt, of Baldock; Andrew, the son of
Thomas; Rev. William Pratt, the son of Andrew;
Lieut. William Pratt, the first Pratt settler in
America, the son of Rev. William Pratt; Joseph
Pratt, the son of Lieut. William Pratt; William,
the son of Joseph; Christopher, the son of
William; Obadiah, the son of Christopher; Jared,
the son of Obadiah; Anson, William D., Parley
P., Orson and Nelson, the sons of Jared.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake convened on September
2nd, 1887, Prest. Mary John presiding. Con-
ference opened by singing and prayer. Minutes
of the previous conference were read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial reports from
the various branches in the Society throughout
the county were also read.
	Sister John was thankful and pleased to meet
with us again. "Our reports are good. When
I reflect on the means that we handle, I am sur-
prised; it is considerable, and a great help to
the poor." She desired to be humble and
prayerful and diligent in all things.
	The presidents of the different branches in
the Stake gave verbal reports of their respec-
tive organizations, showing the exertion of the
members, or the faithful few to do all in their
power to help roll on the work of the Lord, as
the time was far spent. Conference adjourned
till 2 p.m. after singing and prayer.
	Conference opened at 2 p.m. with singing
and prayer. Presidents A. O. Smoot, H. H.
Cluff and D. John were present.
	Prest. Cluff occupied some time in speaking
to us, giving good and timely advice in regard
to our children, the youth of Zion, exhorting
mothers to keep a strict guard over their sons
and daughters; said we came here that we
might raise up a pure race; spoke, also, on the
word of wisdom. "Let us try to reform the
rising generation. We as a people to-day are
lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God,"
etc.
	Prest. John had listened with pleasure to
the speakers before him. "We are blessed in
being able to be here to-day. The devil is full
of jealousy, envy and strife, trying to thwart
the plans of the Almighty. If parents do their
duties in example as well as precept in rearing
their families, if the children will not heed the
teaching, then the parents are excusable."
Spoke against sending our children to outside
schools, showing the evil of so doing, etc.
	Bro. Graves spoke a short time in the inter-
ests of the silk; said there had been a new
President and Counselors appointed for Utah
County; hoped the sisters would continue to
raise cocoons.
	Prest. Smoot made a few remarks on the silk
and other subjects, more particularly the youth
of Zion. Said, "I would like to impress upon
you the necessity of throwing influences round
your children to shield and protect them from
evil; see what kind of company they keep; train
your daughters to shun the appearance of evil.
Your children are your glory, and you neglect
them at your peril. Know what company they
are in, and that they are at home at early
hours," etc.
	Prest. Mary John said, "We will now adjourn
our conference for three mouths."

[Column 2]

	Singing, "Praise God, from whom all bless-
ings flow." Benediction by Bishop Loveless.
		C. DANIELS, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	(The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
September 15th, 1887, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding. On the stand were Coun. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Z. D. H. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs.
M. W. Snow, Mrs. Anna Ivins, Mrs. R. R.
Grant and presidents of branches.) Conference
opened by singing, "O, happy souls who pray."
Prayer by Mrs. E. Howard. Singing, "Our
God, we raise to Thee," etc. Roll called, 23
presidents and 10 counselors responding.
	Remarks were made by Mrs, Ivins, Prest. of
the Relief Society of St. George Stake: "I en-
joy hearing reports; I feel we are doing a good
work. I have had the help of the Lord and
of some good sisters, without which I could
not have done as well as I have in my labors.
If ever we lived near the Lord, we should now,
more than ever, these are such perilous times.
we never lose anything by attending to our
meetings. It is our duty to learn all we can,"
etc.
	Mrs. Grant, Prest. Relief Society 13th Ward,
this city, said, "I am pleased to meet with you;
it is good for us to meet together. I do regret
my not being able to hear my sisters. I visited
in Franklin, Idaho, attended Sunday School
and Relief Society, and had a very nice time.
I look with pleasure to the time when we can
fully enjoy our religion, which we will as soon
as the Lord sees fit. We should be wise, and
earnestly keep the Mormon motto—"Mind our
own business." We have got to put away all
jealousies and envy, and everything that will
tend to keep us back in our duty. We should
never use the word 'can't'. Let us try to
overcome our timidity; let us feel anxious to
be a benefit and blessing to our sisters and to
each other, and stand up and testify of the
goodness of the Lord to us; then let us en-
courage each other in every good work."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke on reports very
clearly and intelligently, and said, "I earnestly
pray God to bless the secretaries."
	Coun E. S. Taylor very emphatically re-
peated Mrs. Kimball's prayer, and said, "God
bless the secretaries! for they do want the help
of our Father." She also spoke on reports,
and gave good practical instruction.
	Prest. Horne said, "I am thankful to see so
many of my sisters out to conference. Sister
Eliza had a feeling that the Relief Society
should be pruned and dead branches cut off.
Let the teachers ask the sisters what their feel-
ings are; do they feel to sustain the organiza-
tion? etc. I would like to say that the ordin-
ances of the house of the Lord are only for
those who have been through the Temple and
received the right to such blessings, the faith-
ful and humble. Let us think of these things
and study them. We must not let our sym-
pathy run away with our judgement."
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing,
"Praise to the man," etc. Benediction by Mrs.
M. W. Wilcox.
	2 p.m.: Conference again opened by singing,
"Jesus, the giver," etc. Prayer by Mrs. B.
W. Smith. Singing, "we thank Thee, O God,
for a Prophet." Minutes of last conference
read by secretary and accepted.
	(Mrs. Zina D. H. Young said, "I am much
pleased to meet with my sisters. I have, since
I last met with you, visited the Relief Society
of Rexburg, and traveled to many branches in
Idaho, held many good meetings, and comforted
many by administering to them, though it is a
very healthy country.) Many of our young
brethren are taking hold and honoring their
positions as Bishops, while the older brethren
are living to counsel them. We need the good

[Column 3]

and wise to encourage and teach us. Let us
pray for our enemies; and let us pray for the
Congress of the nation, that they may not be
partakers in shedding innocent blood. We
have every confidence in our leaders. We are
becoming purified. Let us show the world
that we have something better than they have
by living righteous lives."
	(Sister E. R. S. Smith said, "I have learned
to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things; in sickness, in trials, in pain, and in
everything. God rules and over-rules in all
things for the welfare of His people.) Do we
keep in view that God sent us here to hold
high and responsible positions? We? Yes, we!
the daughters of the Most High God. Where
are we going to? Just where we prepare our-
selves to go! He has revealed the three
glories; we can reach the highest if we will.
Are we thinking more of the things if this
world, or are we doing our duty? Are we liv-
ing so as to have revelations for our own bene-
fit and welfare? We can secure the right to an
eternal increase if we are true and faithful and
live as children of God. We cannot compre-
hend all the glory that pertains to this great
work. (Before Zion is redeemed every heart
will be tried to the core; the Lord will have a
tried people; all will have to be one in every-
thing, even to making our own clothing, and
being independent of our enemies. I stand
before you as a witness of God's mercy and
love) I can sympathize with the weakest
Saint; to be able to do Father's will is what I
wish to live for; no matter what our enemies
call us, what does it matter? We have Jesus
for our brother, let us draw near to God, and
put from us everything that is low; let us be
awake; let us overcome all fault-finding; we
will have darkness before we have light; let us
have no fear; fear and faith do not dwell in the
same bosom; let us lay aside fear and have faith
in God our Father; God has a programme and
He will carry it out; let us be thankful all the
time. I will say to my sisters who go out to
visit, set a good example, keep the word of
wisdom. I pray God to bless you all; do His
will; draw near unto Him; there is a glorious
time in store for us if we are fsithful."
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow said, "I am very
much pleased to meet with you all. I rejoice
to see Sister Eliza with us again; I feel God's 
hand has been over her for good. I have been
absent in Mexico for some time; the climate is
lovely, water good, land good for small settle-
ments. The Saints there feel well, and have
a hope that their reward is sure. I feel that
the Lord will over-rule the colonizing of that
land to the growing and increase of this work.
The people there are suffering some severe hard-
ships; necessaries very, very scarce; some quite
destitute; but still they are cheerful and hope-
ful; nearly all are poor; not many rich are
there; nearly all are exiles. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primaries were organized
while I was there. I saw the ravages of the
late earthquake; and I also saw in the fissures
of the earth springs come up, good water, and
it will prove a blessing to the people; so the
Saints acknowledge the hand of the Lord.
I am thankful that I am one with you in help-
ing to roll on this great work; when we are de-
prived of blessings we learn to appreciate them;
let us not falter, for the hand of God is moving
on the face of the earth; His work will go on;
our brethren are in prison, but those who are
persecuting us will yet be in a prison that they
will have to appeal to a higher court than any
on this earth. I pray God to bless each of us
and to strengthen the weak and feeble."
	Coun. E. S. Taylor said, "We have a very
great treat at this conference; let us put in
practice the teaching we have had; let us walk
in the path of duty, in the straight line of do-
ing right. Any duty He calls on us to per-
form, He will help us in carrying out, if we


[Column 1]

are faithful. I pray God to help us in this our
hour of need, and that we may not have any
more to pass through than we can endure."
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "I have been blest in
hearing Sister E. R. S. Smith talk to us. We
have been blest of the Lord all the time; in
our greatest afflictions, when we were prayerful
wa enjoyed ourselves and were happy. Our
trials will seem light if we keep in view the
glory that awaits us. I have no fear but that
this Church is laid on the right foundation."
	Prest. Horne said, "This has been a good
day for the women of Zion. We are living in
the last dispensation; miracles have beep per-
formed in the persecution of this people in this
land; the Lord is blessing us in our holy re-
ligion; we have been cast out as evil, but it
don't hurt us; we know we have the light; we
have a grand prize in view; we are suffering
not near so much as the Savior did when He
was on the earth, and our hopes are to dwell
with Him in eternity; we have to come up
through much tribulation; our salvation is sure
if we are faithful. She also asked the sisters to
try and contribute a small sum each to our
destitute sisters in Mexico.
	Conference adjourned until December. Sing-
ing, "The time is far spent," etc. Benediction
by Mrs. Mary Freeze.
		E. HOWARD, Sec.

Y. L. M. I. A.
	Minutes of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Conference, held Sept. 16th, 1887,
Prest. M. A. Freeze presiding. Opened by
singing, "Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young. Singing, "Beautiful Zion."
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. The semi-annual reports were also
read.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball addressed the meet-
ing: She thought more of the young ladies
should attend the Associations, since mutual
improvement comes through change of thought.
Referred to marriage, and thought the object
of marriage should be thoroughly understood.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young said, "Man is at our
head, and will be for eternity; but we are al-
lotted our work, and should magnify that work
as much as possible." She referred to the
revelation given to Emma Smith, and advised
all to read it.
	Mrs. Lucy Kimball Smith said she had en-
joyed the remarks, and preferred to listen, but
being called upon she felt to do her duty.
Thought we should pray for the officers of the
Church, and uphold them in their action, and
we should never oppose a principle of salva-
tion.
	Mrs. Weiler felt for herself that this is the
work of God; that we should be more faithful
than ever before, and that God will pour out
His Spirit upon us.
	Miss M. E. Cook said she experienced em-
barrassment in addressing the assembly, but
felt highly edified with the proceedings. Re-
ferred to the marriage covenant, and thought
the one solemnized in the Temple of God the
only legitimate one; thought it highly neces-
sary to have a good knowledge of religious
science in preference to other knowledge.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith wished the room were full
at this conference, but supposed schools kept
many away who might otherwise attend. She
had seen harder and more trying times in the
Church than now and thought we should not
complain. Plenty to eat and wear, and com-
fortable homes are great blessings, and were
not enjoyed in some trying times that were past.
"If we embrace the principle of plural mar-
riage, we must not grumble at the trials it
brings, but be cheerful and obedient at all
times."
	Miss Edith Sampson made it a rule to re-
spond when called upon, consequently found
herself in this trying position. "We should

[Column 2]

seek God at all times, for He is a jealous God,
and we should put our trust in Him, no matter
what the trial."
	Mrs. J. C. Howe said she had come to get
her spiritual and bodily strength renewed;
thought nothing so pleasant as to meet with
the young ladies. Hoped God would give us
retentive memories and understanding, that we
may comprehend the Scriptures, both ancient
and modern.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Did you Think to Pray?" Prayer by Mrs. M.
E. Irvine.
	With a good attendance, the meeting con-
vened at 2 p.m. Singing. Prayer by Mrs.
Buxton. Singing.
	Prest. Mary A. Freeze was the first speaker;
said she felt the Lord is able to make the
weakest strong, and would give her something
to say. "Many think pleasure and rejoicing
the only objects of existence, but we came here
for a purpose, not by accident; we had a pre-
existence, when we rejoiced at the prospect of
coming on the earth, and now we are here we
must do our work well. We need to struggle
for faith in God—our minds are naturally
drawn to the earth, and we must draw our
minds to God." She thought we should prac-
tice what we teach, "so we should place our-
selves in a position to teach every good thing.
We should not fear the punishments inflicted
by men, for what are they compared to the
wrath of God?"
	Coun. M. Y. Dougall said, "Let us live our
religion to-day and every day of our lives, and
influence, if possible, others to live their re-
ligion. When we stand before the judgment
seat of God, there will be no comforting joy
like that of knowing we have kept the com-
mandments of God. Our religion should be
dearer to us than anything else in the world;
thought we should educate ourselves, for the
daughters of Zion bear the souls of men, and
if we want the sons educated, we should edu-
cate the daughters," etc.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp felt to endorse every
word that Mrs. Dougall had said, and felt that
every true woman must acknowledge the right
man as the leader, and that she should obey
him in all things in righteousness. Prayed
that God would bless each one of us with re-
tentive memories, that we may treasure up use-
ful knowledge.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor said that as we have
with us to-day Sister E. R. Snow Smith and
Prest. A. M. Cannon, she would not occupy
the time, but before resuming her seat she
wished emphatically to impress upon the minds
of the presidents that their proper position
is on the stand, and they must take their posi-
tions there without being reminded specially of
it at every meeting. She also gave instructions
in regard to married life.
	Mrs. E. R. Snow Smith said, "It has been a
long time since I met with my young sisters in
this capacity, and I am thankful to God for
this privilege. The instructions we have re-
ceived will do us no good unless we put them
in practice. The Lord has a great work for
the daughters of Zion—to raise up a healthy
generation. A mighty God is with us, if we
adhere to Him. You young ladies want to
cultivate health in your bodies; it is to be la-
mented that so many have inherited weaknesses
of body, but in a measure you can overcome
them, by living the laws of life and health."
Said the young could not expect healthy bodies
when they are out night after night exposed to
the cold. "These may seem small matters, but
a healthy spirit cannot prosper in an unhealthy
body. Early impressions form the character
of the child, and often the mother in little
things sets examples of dishonesty. Establish
firmly the principle of strict honesty, and
have a foundation as high as the heavens and
as broad as eternity. Our God condescends to

[Column 3]

notice small things; we should not desecrate
the Sabbath day; we should be exemplary Lat-
ter-day Saints; we should gain knowledge.
What is education? The training of the hu-
man mind; but if we could not educate in
everything without disloyalty to the Gospel,
I would rather have the love of God than all
the knowledge of seminaries." She urged the
young ladies to learn housekeeping, as good
health and happiness depends on it. She
closed her remarks by saying, "I ask God to
bless you and pour out His Spirit upon you; do
nothing to grieve it away. You can’t consider
too important the mission God has for you; if
we cleave unto God, seek to do His will in all
things, we shall be able to stand whatever the
Lord suffers to come."
	Prest. A. M. Cannon expressed himself as
pleased to attend a young ladies' conference.
Referred to the remarks of previous speakers
as instructive and interesting. He referred
to the relative positions of man and woman,
saying, "Each has an important work to do."
Spoke of a mother’s influence over a child, and
how exemplary her conduct should be. He
related instances of the power of early im-
pressions, and was listened to with great
interest.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, "Give us room, that we
may dwell." Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
		LIZZIE SMITH, Sec.

WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Weber
Stake was held in the Ogden Tabernacle, Sept.
8th, 1887, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding.
On the stand were Prest. L. W. Shurtliff and
Counselor, two or three Bishops and Counsel-
ors, Hattie C. Brown, Emily Shurtliff and
others. Meeting opened by singing, "Now let
us rejoice." Prayer by Bishop Gale. Singing,
"And are we yet alive." Minutes of the pre-
ceding conference read and approved Semi-
annual reports of the various wards throughout
the county were read by the Stake Secretary,
showing the branches of the Relief Society to
be in a flourishing condition.
	Prest. J. S. Richards was weak and ill in
body, but was thankful to God for strength
given her to be present once more with her sis-
ters. Was well pleased with the full reports.
Spoke of the anniversary of the organization
of this Society ten years ago last July, which
she had hoped to celebrate, but could not,
owing to the sickness and death of our beloved
President Taylor. Said she often read the
minutes of that first meeting, when President 
Young was there,and derived encouragement
therefrom. Gave the sisters some kindly ad-
vice concerning their reports. Said she was
pleased to announce to them that Sister E. B.
Wells was present,and knew that all would be
edified in listening to her.
	Sister E. B. Wells was delighted to
be present at conference in this county again.
Spoke of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith's im-
provement in health; said she had just recent-
ly been out of town, rode in a buggy eighteen
miles, and she hoped yet to be able to attend
conference in this county. She sent her love
to all the sisters. Spoke of the great interest
that was manifested in these organizations of
ours throughout the world, and on the Sand-
wich Islands some of the sisters had walked
thirty-two miles to attend their last R. S Con-
ference there. Felt to bear testimony to the
truth of this great work, and to acknowledge
the hand of God in all things. Thanked the
sisters for the very liberal donations they had
made to the Deseret Hospital, and especially
appreciated the labors of Sister Richards, and
her earnest and untiring efforts in benefitting
that institution.
	Sisters Douglas and Maycock each reported
her society in a prosperous condition, and said


[Column 1]

they were looking forward to the time when
those who are in authority would be permitted
to associate with and visit them. Prayed God
to point out our duties plainly to us, and aid
us by His Holy Spirit to do the same.
	After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until 2 p.m.
	2 p.m.: Meeting commenced by singing,
"Come, all ye sons of Zion." Prayer by
Bishop Thomas Wallace. Singing, "Praise to
the man," etc. 
	Coun. H. C. Brown said she was pleased to
see so very many here, and was thankful, too,
for all the blessings of God; felt to rely entirely
upon Him for strength and power to do His
will, and felt to thank the Lord that Prest. J.
S. Richards and Sister Wells and so many of
the sisters throughout the county were able to
attend this conference.
	Coun. Emily Shurtliff was always glad to
meet with her sisters, and felt that we had
brought a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit
with us, and would be blessed in meeting to-
gether to day.
	Sister Almira Raymond never felt more de-
termined and anxious to serve God and keep
His commandments than at the present time.
Prayed God to bless us and keep us humble
and prayerful.
	Sisters Ellis, Taylor and Bingham all felt
well, and rejoiced in the Gospel and their
duties in the Relief Society, and hoped to
prove faithful.
	Sister E. B. Wells, in her remarks, said she
thought it was quite as important for each
member to be energetic and faithful, as it was
for the President and officers to honor their
position, and that we should be very charitable
and pray for each other in our various duties.
Gave an interesting account of a visit she had
made to her old New England home, and
spoke of the necessity of the best of order to
be observed in the meetings of the Saints in
all their organizations, as we can be more suc-
cessful in accomplishing good if we observe
order and method in all our undertakings.
Said her greatest desire was to do good, and
prayed that we all would feel a desire to edu-
cate ourselves and perfect ourselves in the
glorious principles of the Gospel, so that we
can teach our children and the youth of Zion.
Thought we should be more charitable towards
all our brethren and sisters.
	Prest. L. W. Shurtliff was glad, as he al-
ways was, to meet with the sisters in conference, 
and hoped soon to see Sister Snow Smith in
this county; would move for a special meeting
at any time she was able to come, and would
circulate the news of a meeting throughout the
Stake, and have printed notices distributed, so
that the Tabernacle would be filled to welcome
her.  He then called for a vote from the sis-
ters to sustain Prest. Jane S. Richards in her
office and calling in this Stake of Zion by their
faith and prayers and good works. The vote
was unanimous. Prayed that we might be
humble even as little children, and ever do the
will of God.
	Coun. C. F. Middleton felt proud of the
privilege of associating with so many noble
men and women, and made some very good re-
marks.
	Sister McBride, Prest. of Eden Ward, was
proud of a place in the Church and kingdom
of God, and felt to rejoice now, even as she
did while drawing her HANDCART across the
plains. Gave some excellent instructions on
the word of wisdom, and the great blessings
that would follow the observance of the same.
	Prest. J. S. Richards thanked the sisters
for their attendance to-day; felt desirous of
doing good as long as she lived, and hoped to
have the faith and prayers of all the sisters,
and asked for a vote to sustain her Counselors
equal with herself in the labors pertaining to
the Relief Society. The vote was unanimous.

[Column 2]

	Meeting adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."
Benediction by Elder ——
	MATTIE B. CANNON, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM NEELEYVILLE.

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—We thought perhaps a small
contribution on our part might be acceptable
to our valuable paper.
	Our Relief Society is steadily plodding along,
and as a general thing a good feeling prevails.
We are in a scattered condition, which makes
it very inconvenient. The EXPONENT is a
welcome visitor in our midst. May it ever
prosper in its noble efforts of doing good. We
remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ,
		ELIZABETH DILL, Prest.,
		JULIA THORNTON, Sec.


SILK ASSOCIATION REORGANIZED:

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We wish to give publicity through the
columns of our paper, that at our last Stake
Relief Society Conference, held Sept. 2nd, 
1887, President Smoot set apart Sister M. A.
Till as President of the Silk Association of
this Stake, and Sisters Sarah Saunders and
Sarah Goodman were appointed as her Coun-
selors.
	On account of the demise of the late Presi-
dent, Sister Hester Beebee, the Association has
been inactive. We now resume the business, 
and desire the aid of those previously inter-
ested, and hope those who have not heretofore
lent their endeavors towards the silk industry,
will assist by planting mulberry trees and
raising cocoons.
	Respectfully your sister in the Gospel,
		JANE P. JONES, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Margaret Dale Owen is writing and speak-
ing in favor of an original dress-reform garb,
which is called the Dale-Owen robe. She is
granddaughter of Robert Owen.
	Fanny Kemble is living in England. A
visit from her is expected at Lenox, Mass.,
and the people there will give her a warm re-
ception. The clock and bell in the tower of
the Congregational Church were a present from
her.
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar will not return from
Europe until October, being detained a month
longer than she anticipated by the serious ill-
ness of her husband. She writes the Journal
from Wiesbaden; Germany, that they hope to
be able to sail with the City of Rome, leaving
Liverpool, Sept. 28. Their summer has,
been spent in traveling through Ireland,
Scotland, England, Wales. Holland, Belgium,
France, Italy, Switzerland, Austria and Ger-
many. Mrs. Gougar will probably spend a
few days in Boston before going West, begin-
ning her platform work November 20, under
the auspices of the Chicago branch of the Red-
path Lyceum Bureau. Besides her lectures
upon woman suffrage and temperance, she will
give her popular lecture upon "Ireland" and
her new one on "Party, Press and People."—
Ex.
	Great satisfaction is felt at the extension of
the municipal suffrage to women in Ireland.
This has been effected by a bill for the reform
of the Municipal Corporation of Belfast,
hitherto elected on a very restricted franchise.
An act has been passed which assimmilates the


conditions of the Municipal Franchise of Bel-
fast to those which prevail in Great Britain,
and this reform includes the extension of the
suffrage to women- The operation of the act
is limited to Belfast, but there can be no doubt
that a similar rule must be extended ere long
to all Irish boroughs. Meantime, it is possible
that without special legislation the ordinary
law, coupled with the Interpretation Act and
the usage in Great Britain, may sustain the
claim of women in Dublin and other districts
to be put upon the municipal register when
next the lists are revised.—Ex.
	The history of the New Zealand Woman's
Franchise Bill is encouraging and instructive.
The encouragement is derived from a compari-
son with the fate of a similar proposal in 1878.
In September of that year, in Committee on an
Electoral Bill, an amendment was moved by
Mr. Wallis to omit the word male from the
clause relating to the qualifcation of electors.
This amendment was rejected by thirty-six
votes against twenty-six, showing a majority,
in 1878, of ten against woman suffrage. This
year the second reading of Sir Julius Vogel's
Bill was carried by a majority of nineteen, an
advance of opinion which would seem to be
decisive on the question. If the suffragists
had accepted a limitation of property, the bill
would have passed; the principle of woman
suffrage would then have been irrevocably es-
tablished in the colony, and its further applica-
tion would have been simply a question of
time.—Ex.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1887.	NO. 10.


[Column 1]

AN EPISTLE

﻿To the Members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints.

INTRODUCTORY.

Dear Brethren and Sisters:
	It appears proper, at this Fifty-eighth
Semi-annual Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
that an Epistle should be addressed to
the members of the Church, in con-
formity with the custom which has
been observed at the past five General
Conferences.
DEATH OF PRESIDENT TAYLOR.
	As some of the Apostles are pre-
vented, by circumstances well known
to the Saints, from appearing in pub-
lic, the Church will naturally look for
some expression from them concern-
ing their feelings and hopes respecting
the work of our God. Especially at the
present time is deep interest felt in the
utterances of the Apostles, because of
the loss which the Church has sus-
tained in the death of PRESIDENT JOHN
TAYLOR. Twice before has the Church
mourned the death of its President,
and each time the event has produced
a profound impression upon its mem-
bers. In this instance this sad event
is invested with more significance than
it would have been had it occurred in
the ordinary way. President Taylor
died in exile. For about two years
and a half he had been compelled to
live in seclusion, and to refrain from
all public association with the people
whom he loved more than he did life.
	Through his decease the Church is
called the third time to mourn the de-
parture of the man who has stood as
its President and as the Prophet, Seer
and Revelator to this generation. The
experience which the Saints have
gained in passing through these trials
has been of exceeding value to them.
They have learned that God can take
care of his own work, and that they
need not worry nor yield to anxiety or
doubt concerning its management.
	After the martyrdom of the Prophet
Joseph there were pretenders who as-
serted that they had the right to take
his place at the head of the Church.
Some were deceived by their preten-
sions, not being familiar with the or-
der of the Priesthood.
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
APOSTLES.
	For some time before his death the
Prophet Joseph was inspired of the
Lord to anticipate his own departure
from earthly scenes. This was shown
in various ways; but especially in the
great anxiety which he displayed to
bestow upon the Twelve Apostles all
the keys and authority of the Holy
Priesthood which he had received. He
declared in private and in public that
they were equipped and fully qualified,
and that he had rolled the kingdom of
God on to the shoulders of the Twelve
Apostles.
PRESIDENT WOODRUFF'S PERSONAL
TESTIMONY.
	I, Wilford Woodruff, being the last
man living in the flesh who was pres-
ent upon that occasion feel it a duty I
owe to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, to the House of
Israel, and to the whole world to bear
this my last testimony to all nations,
that in the winter of 1843-4, Joseph
Smith, the Prophet of God, called the
Twelve Apostles together in the City
of Nauvoo, and spent many days with
us in giving us our endowments, and
teaching us those glorious principles
which God had revealed to him. And
upon one occasion he stood upon his
feet in our midst for nearly three
hours declaring unto us the great and
last dispensation which God had set
His hand to perform upon the earth in
these last days. The room was filled
as if with consuming fire; the Prophet

[Column 2]

was clothed upon with much of the
power of God, and his face shone and
was transparently clear, and he closed
that speech, never-to-be-forgotten in
time or in eternity, with the following
language:
	"Brethren, I have had great sorrow
of heart for fear that I might be taken
from the earth with the keys of the
Kingdom of God upon me, without
sealing them upon the heads of other
men. God has sealed upon my head
all the keys of the Kingdom of God
necessary for organizing and build-
ing up of the Church, Zion, and
Kingdom of God upon the earth, and
to prepare the Saints for the coming
of the Son of Man. Now, brethren, I
thank God I have lived to see the day
that I have been enabled to give you
your endowments, and I have now
sealed upon your heads all the powers
of the Aaronic and Melchisedek Priest-
hoods and Apostleship, with all the 
keys and powers thereof, which God
has sealed upon me; and I now roll off
all the labor, burden and care of this
Church and Kingdom of God upon
your shoulders, and I now command
you in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ to round up your shoulders,and
bear off this Church and Kingdom of
God before heaven and earth, and be-
fore God, angels and men; and if you
don't do it you will be damned."
	And the same spirit that filled the 
room at that time burns in my bosom
while I record this testimony, and the
Prophet of God appointed no one else
but the Twelve Apostles to stand at
the head of the Church and direct its
affairs.
THE PRESIDENCY IN THE APOSTLES.
	When the Prophet Joseph had
passed away by foul assassination,
those who possessed the Spirit of God
and were living in close communion 
with it, knew the voice of the true
shepherd and were not deceived by the
claims of men who pretended to have 
authority. The body of the Church
followed the leadership of those whom
God had chosen, and whom His ser-
vant Joseph had been instructed to
prepare for this great responsibility.
The Twelve Apostles, with President
Brigham Young as their head, became
the presiding council of the Church.
	The lessons which the Church then
learned in regard to the Priesthood,
and the rights of the Priesthood, have
never been forgotten. When Presi-
dent Young was taken from us, there 
was no jar nor division of sentiment
among the Apostles; and among the
people there was scarcely a question as
to where the right of Presidency rest-
ed. President John Taylor took the
position which belonged to him, and
the work of God moved forward with-
out interruption, and with a union and
harmony on the part of all connected
with it, most delightful to wit
ness. He has stood at our head
for nearly ten years, and during that
period he has possessed the gifts and
qualifications which belonged to his
high office and calling. His entire
career is one that can be contemplated
with the utmost satisfaction and pleas
ure by all who love the truth and ad-
mire integrity in those who are called
to be servants of God. From the time
that he was baptized a member of the
Church until his spirit took its flight
from earth, he never wavered in his ad-
vocacy and defense of the principles of
righteousness. Under all the varied
circumstances through which he and
the people of God were called to pass,
in the midst of the deepest trials and
afflictions, his voice was always raised
in tones of encouragement and hope;
and when the storms were the fiercest,
he rose to the occasion and always
displayed undaunted courage and un-
flinching devotion to the Zion of God.
In the providence of God it fell to his
lot to be with the Prophet Joseph and
Patriarch Hyrum when they were
martyred for the truth, and he mingled
his own blood with theirs. Though
severely wounded on that occasion,
he miraculously escaped death. He
was a man whom the Lord loved.
The evidence of this is to be found in

[Column 3]

the fact that He chose him to preside
over His Church at the departure of
His servant Brigham. We feel thank-
ful to God our Eternal Father that we
have been permitted to live with and
enjoy the society of President John
Taylor and be his fellow-laborers.
Our association with him and the
Presidents and Apostles who have
gone before him into the spirit world,
we esteem as a great honor. We take
delight in anticipating the rejoicing
that we shall have when we shall be
permitted to mingle in their society.
	Once more, the responsibility of
presiding over the Church has fallen
upon the Council of the Twelve
Apostles. The Counselors of Presi-
dent Taylor; Brothers George Q.
Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, being
members of the Council of the Twelve
Apostles at the time they were chosen
to be members of the First Presidency,
have, since his death, taken their places
again as members of that Council.
	Fifty-seven years and a half have
elapsed since the Church was organ-
ized. In looking around among those
with whom we associate to-day, how
few there are left of those who, under
the Lord, helped to lay the
foundation of this work and were the
companions of the Prophet in the
early labors connected therewith!
To-day there is but one Apostle left
of those who belonged to the Council
of the Apostles during the lifetime of
the Prophet Joseph, or, indeed, at the
time these valleys were first settled.
The other faithful Apostles who were
ordained under the direction of the
Prophet Joseph have all passed behind
the vail. Since the death of President
Young four have joined him in the
other world, and in the same period
six have been ordained as members
of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.
This gives some idea of the changes
which are occurring, and how rapidly
a new generation is taking an active
part in the building up of Zion.
THE LABORS OF THE APOSTLES.
	Those of us who have been at liberty
to travel, have devoted our time to
visiting the various Stakes, and in
meeting with them at their Quarterly
Conferences. Some of us have been
laboring in Mexico, others in Arizona,
besides visiting the Stakes in Idaho
and in Utah. These Quarterly Con-
ferences are attended with excellent
results. The people come together
and receive instructions and coun-
sel upon leading topics, and
much good is derived therefrom.
Though it involves considerable labor
for the Apostles to visit them, yet we
are encouraged in doing so by the ad-
vantages which those visits bring to
the people in keeping them informed
concerning general movements and
counsel. In these labors we have had
much joy and satisfaction, especially
in witnessing the increase of faithful-
ness on the part of the Saints.
THE PATIENCE OF THE SAINTS.
	Though many of the leading men
have been compelled to be absent,
some of them having been incarcer-
ated in prison, the people have, never-
theless, been steadfast, and have
sought with increased diligence to per-
form their duties. The persecution to 
which they have been subjected has
led the people to think and act for
themselves, and not to depend so
much upon others for guidance. This
can not fail to be attended with good
results. It is necessary that all the 
members of the Church should exer-
cise their powers of reason and reflec-
tion and thoroughly understand why
they take the course which God points
out. Intelligent obedience on the part
of His Saints is desired by our Father
in heaven. He has given us our agency
to think and act for ourselves,
on our own volition, to obtain a
testimony for ourselves from Him
concerning the truth of the principles
which He teaches, and then be firm
and unshaken in the performance of
all which is necessary for salvation.
	We have felt great satisfaction in
witnessing the dignity and courage

[Column 4]

which the Saints have exhibited
through the trials of the past three
years. Their conduct has been ad-
mirable. They have displayed great
qualities. The forbearance, patience
and fortitude which they have ex-
hibited are proofs that God has been
with them. Outrages which would
have goaded any other people into acts
of violence have been of frequent oc-
currence. In other communities men
and women would be desperate under
such treatment. But the Lord has
given His people power to control
themselves and peace has been main-
tained. Riots and bloodshed have
been avoided, and even under strong
provocation, when blood was shed, the
community restrained itself. Preju-
dice may prevent our nation and its
rulers from acknowledging, at the
present, how noble the demeanor of
the people has been under
these trying circumstances, and
with the strong provocations
which they have had to indulge in
outbreaks; yet the time will come
when all this will receive its proper
recognition and due credit will be ac-
corded the Latter-day Saints for their
magnanimity and self-control through-
out this entire persecution.
PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS, ETC.
	In the organizations which have
been established among our people in
all our settlements in these moun-
tains, the advancement and training
and benefit of all classes are amply
provided for. Among no people of
whom we know anything have such
provisions been made for the salvation
and care of the members of society of
all ages as among the Latter-day
Saints. If we and our children do not
progress in intelligence and in the
knowledge of all principles pertaining
to life here and life hereafter, it is be-
cause we do not avail ourselves of
those facilities which are placed within
our reach. We have the Primary As-
sociations provided for the benefit of
the young children of our Church, and
their instruction in those simple prin-
ciples which they can understand. We
also have Sunday schools for the
training and education of those of
larger growth. In them they can learn
the doctrines of salvation and the his-
tory of the work of God, and be pre-
pared for greater progress. Then we
have the Young Mens' and Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, which have been organized, as 
their names imply, for the development
of the young people of both sexes and
their advancement in every thing that
will qualify them for lives of useful-
ness and honor. But besides these or-
ganizations we have the various coun-
cils of the Priesthood, to some office
in which every young man who is
worthy can be ordained. The young
women, as they increase in years, can
also find a sphere of usefulness in the 
Relief Societies which have been or-
ganized for he purpose of assisting
the Bishops and Counselors and
Teachers of the Wards in caring for
the poor and relieving the wants of the
suffering and distressed. So that by
means of these organizations, which
are of vast interest to us as a people,
every one from early childhood to ma-
turity, can be led forward step by step,
from one degree of knowledge to an-
other until fully qualified to discharge
all the duties of perfected and honor-
able manhood and womanhood.
	So far as we know. the sisters who
have charge of the Primary Associa-
tions are doing a most commendable 
work in arousing interest in the lit-
tle ones and in teaching them
in simple style those lessons
which are adapted to their under-
standings. We hope that in all our
settlements these associations will re-
ceive the constant care and attention
of our wise and judicious sisters. The
seed sown in the hearts of the children
by the instructions imparted there,
will produce in years to come an
abundant harvest that will gladden the
hearts of the Saints who witness it.
OUR SUNDAY SCHOOLS, ETC.
	The progress of the Sunday School


[Column 1]

cause in Zion continues satisfactory,
though undoubtedly somewhat re-
tarded by the enforced absence from
its labors and associations of so many
brethren and sisters who have in
former years taken an active interest
in its welfare. We notice, with pleas-
ure, the constantly increasing number
of schools, teachers and scholars re-
ported by the officers of the Union and
the evident care taken by the presiding
local authorities in our settlements to
have a Sunday School as one of the
first institutions established. We
are also gratified to learn that
in most of the foreign missions
of the Church Sunday Schools
and Improvement Associations
are being organized wherever
practicable. In Great Britain, in Con-
tinental Europe, in New Zealand, and
in the Sandwich Islands, as also in the
branches scattered throughout the
missions in the United States, these
institutions are found contributing
their influence in instructing and
forming the character of the children
of the Latter-day Saints.
	The Mutual Improvement Societies
are also accomplishing great good
throughout our settlements. In connec-
tion with them and the Sunday Schools,
we desire to remind our brethren and
sisters who are engaged in the praise-
worthy labor of fostering these insti-
tutions, that the original design in
organizing Sunday Schools and Im-
provement Societies among us was,
that the children and youth of the
Saints should be made wise in the
principles of the Gospel and their faith
be developed in the revelations of
God. This the officers and teachers
should keep constantly in mind. The
books used should be almost without
exception, the revelations of God as
contained in ancient and modern
Scripture, together with the other
works of the Church. The teachings,
while direct, brief and simple, should
be such as will increase the faith, de-
velop the veneration and love, and
draw out the intelligence of the youth-
ful hearers toward the divine princi-
ples of which by God's grace, we have
been made the custodians. All at-
tempts, however slight, to secularize
these institutions and to change them
so that they will not accomplish the
ends sought for in their creation,
should be discountenanced. The
spirit and teachings of the Gospel
should hold undivided control in all
our ministrations connected with this
cause. In the theological and other
classes all discussions should be
avoided as much as possible on sub-
jects which God in His wisdom has not
yet fully revealed. We know there are
many persons who appear to take more
delight in dwelling upon questions
which are mysterious and cannot very
well, in our present state of knowl-
edge be answered, than they do upon
those subjects which are plain and
simple and essential to present pro-
gress. But the Lord has revealed
so much that we can understand
and that we ought to learn in order to
be useful in the labors devolving upon
us here, that we need not enter into
discussions on subjects which in no
way affect our happiness here or eter-
nal salvation hereafter. In our theo-
logical classes, quorum meetings and
other assemblies, therefore, these de-
batable questions need not be dis-
cussed or be dwelt upon to occupy the
time of the members, to the exclusion
of more profitable topics. In the
Primary Associations, the Sunday
schools and the Mutual Improvement
Associations, singing should receive a
large share of attention. Singing ex-
ercises can be made a great attraction
and also a valuable addition to the ed-
ucation of the young. The interest
that is now taken among us in vocal
and instrumental music is a marked
feature of the times, and this taste
finds increasing opportunities for its
development in the facilities which are
now being furnished to all who desire
its cultivation. Instead of having a
select few act as choirs in these
institutions to do the singing for the
whole, the voices of all should
be united in harmonious [---]
in giving utterance to the feelings of
their hearts in hymns and songs. This
will increase the pleasure of the meet-
ings, and make all feel that they have
an equal interest in worship and re-
joicing.
THE RELIEF SOCIETIES.
	The mission of the Relief Societies
as organized among us, is truly grand
and beneficent. There is no limit to
their labors and usefulness while suf-

[Column 2]

fering and want exist in our midst. To
aid the needy by feeding the hungry
and clothing the destitute is distinc-
tively and peculiarly their mission. In
the energetic performance of their
duty human sympathy and divine
mercy are beautifully harmonized. In
extending relief to the poor, the love
of God and of our fellows is clearly
manifest. It is more praiseworthy for
a relief society to be able to say
"There are none in our Ward in need
of food, raiment or shelter," than to
report thousands of dollars in hand,
while the needs of the poor are un-
supplied.
	These societies have done a vast
amount of good among us, and the
members have been of great service in
assisting the Priesthood in the wards
in caring for the destitute and in sup-
plying the wants of those who have
been in need of help. In these labors
we desire to give them every encour-
agement and to invoke the blessing of
heaven upon them, and all their exer-
tions for the benefit of suffering hu-
manity.
THE CARE OF THE POOR.
	As the winter season is approaching,
it is proper that each Bishop and his
Counselors should take the necessary
steps to properly care for the poor
who live in their wards. They should
call the Relief Societies to their aid in
this labor. The reasonable wants of
the poor should be supplied and the
pangs of poverty and destitution
should be averted. God has greatly
blessed us in the fruits of our fields
and gardens, in our flocks and herds,
and in giving us comfortable habita-
tions and means to sustain ourselves,
and we should always remember the
words of the Apostle James: "Pure
religion and undefiled before God and
the Father is this, to visit the father-
less and widows in their affliction, and
to keep himself unspotted from the
world."
	While it has always been the
policy of our people to encourage in-
dustry and to repress idleness in every
form, and to expect all persons to
contribute, according to their ability,
to their own support; still there are
many cases where the aged and the in-
firm, or the unfortunate, cannot, with
the utmost exertion and economy, ob-
tain through their own labors suffi-
cient to sustain themselves. It would
be a great evil among us to encourage
any class in living upon the benevo-
lence of the community. No system
of begging should be permitted.
Those able to work should be fur-
nished employment. Persons who are
properly disposed will be glad to ob-
tain it in preference to being fed with
the bread of charity; and all should
be encouraged to labor according to
their strength. This policy, if wisely
pursued will prevent pauperism, de-
velop self exertion and confidence, and
produce self-respect. It is a cause
of great pleasure to think that beg-
gary is unknown throughout our set-
tlements There is no need for any
one, however destitute, to publicly
solicit alms. But while this is the
case, the sensitive and those who
shrink from asking aid, who conceal,
in some instances, their poverty,
should be carefully looked after by the
Relief Societies under the direction of
the Bishops of the wards, so that there
may be no individual in any of our
wards suffering for the want of food or
any other article necessary to sustain
or preserve life. The community whose
hearts are open to the cries of distress,
who are ready to administer of the
substance which the Lord gives them
to relieve their fellow creatures, may
always depend upon the favor of the
Lord, for he loves those who are kind
to their fellow-men, and who admin-
ister to their necessities, whose hearts
are tender, and who readily respond to
applications of this character which
are made upon them, or who antici-
pate them by giving freely to the desti-
tute.
FAST OFFERINGS.
	In some of our wards there is not
proper care taken in the collection of
the last offerings of the people. The
first Thursday in the month has been
set apart in the Church as a day of
fasting and of prayer. That day should
be strictly observed. Fast offerings
should be brought with a liberal hand
to the Bishop of each ward, that he
may be prepared to supply those who
are dependent upon the ward for sus-
tenance. Some wards require consid-
erable aid from the Church to help
sustain their poor, because their own

[Column 3]

fast offerings do not supply them;
while sometimes in the same Stake
there are other wards where there are
few, if any, dependent poor. Presidents
of Stakes should make arrangements
with the Bishops of the last named
wards to transfer their fast offerings
to the Bishop of some contiguous
ward which has more poor within its
borders than its own fast offerings
will supply. In this way all the peo-
ple can have an equal opportunity of
doing their duty to the poor.
THE LESSONS OF LIBERALITY.
	Experience has abundantly proved
that those who are attentive to those
and all other duties required by the
Lord receive His blessing. God does
bless those who devote themselves
with singleness of purpose to His
work. If proof of this were needed,
one has only to notice the condition of
Elders in the various settlements who
have spent years of their lives upon
missions. Though their home affairs
may have been left to the care of their
wives and children, they are not dis-
tinguished by their poverty from their
fellow-servants who have remained at
home.
	We have only to look around us to
satisfy ourselves also, that those who
are generous in contributing to God's
work are favored of the Lord. This
was the experience of ancient Israel,
and it is our experience. Yet in re-
gard to voluntary donations there is
too much carelessness, notwithstand-
ing all the precious promises con-
nected therewith. The Saints should
be reminded of the obligation which
rests upon them. Our children, also,
should be taught this duty, that it may
become a fixed habit with them to
punctually attend to these matters.
Those who have strictly observed
these requirements can testify to the
great pleasure and many rewards they
have received from their observance.
	This law of liberality appears to be
one of the safeguards which the Lord
has adopted to avert from his people
the evil consequences which follow
the possession of wealth. He has told
us that the riches of the earth are His
to give; but He has warned us to be-
ware of pride, lest we become as the
Nephites of old. We know the ruin it
wrought for them, and we should
spare no precaution to prevent wealth
having a disastrous effect upon us.
Many can endure poverty and be hum-
ble and live near the Lord who cannot
bear riches. They become lifted up in
pride and become covetous, and for-
get their God. Those, however, who
remember constantly the teachings of
the Lord concerning the earth and its
inhabitants, and who contribute of the
means which the Lord gives them to
assist the poor and help carry forward
the work of God, exercise a check upon
themselves and give Satan less power
to lead them astray. Under the pres-
ent system of affairs, those who ac-
cumulate wealth and are able to sup-
ply themselves and their families with
luxuries and advantages that are de-
nied their neighbors, are in danger of
becoming separated from the bulk of
the people and forming a distinct
class. But the day will come when a
more perfect order will be introduced.
Then it will be said there are no poor
and no rich in Zion—that is, we shall
not be divided into classes, but shall
all possess everything of this charac-
ter necessary for our comfort and hap-
piness. But until then, if we wish our
families and ourselves to remain Lat-
ter-day Saints, we must be especially
careful to guard against the deceitful-
ness of richers.
THE DUTIES OF THE SAINTS.
	The great labor which devolves upon
us, as members of the Church, is to
build up Zion. God has founded Zion,
and we should seek to extend its bene-
fits and blessings unto all mankind. It
should be our constant care to do
nothing that will weaken its influence
or power or retard its growth in the
earth. This we should constantly im-
press also, upon our children, that
they may grow up filled with an abid-
ing love for the work of God.
	There has been too much neglect
on this point. Many have pursued a
short-sighted, selfish policy; and have
worked to that which they believed
was their own individual advantage
without regard to the effect their ac-
tion would have upon the work of God.
Their eyes have not been single to His
glory. Such a disposition has proved
a snare to those who have indulged in
it; they have wrought injury to them-

[Column 4]

selves, not to mention the effect their
conduct has had upon Zion.
THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF MARRIAGE.
	The Lord has informed us that mar-
riage is ordained of God unto man.
The institution of marriage, in some
communities of which we read, is fall-
ing almost into disrepute. It is al-
leged that there is a growing tendency
in this direction among us. The cause
is doubtless, traceable to the in-
crease of wealth and the dis-
inclination of young men to take
upon them the burdens of a wife and
family. As we depart from the sim-
plicity of early days, we may naturally
expect that this tendency will increase
as young men may be restrained from
offering marriage to young ladies un-
less they can give them something like
as comfortable a home as they enjoy
under their parents' roof. Extrava-
gant or luxuriant habits or training on
the part of the girls will also have the
effect to deter young men from marry-
ing. Care should be taken by every
person of influence to counteract this
tendency, and to set before the rising
generation the advantages which fol-
low well-arranged marriages. No
community can prosper and maintain
a high standard of morality where
there is a large percentage of unmar-
ried young men and young women.
We should deplore the increase of
such a class among us, and all honor-
able means should be used to prevent
its existence. The young of both
sexes should be taught that it is not
necessary to happiness in marriage to
be in the possession of wealth. In
this country an industrious, economi-
cal married couple can soon surround
themselves with all the conveniences
and comforts essential to life and hap-
piness. The satisfaction each will
have in after years in the enjoyment
of the fruits of their joint industry and
thrift will amply repay them for any in-
conveniences or privations they may
have been subjected to in the early
days of their married life. The com-
forts thus accumulated will be doubly
sweetened unto them by the recollec-
tion of their exertions in common to
procure them. No rightly constituted
and educated young woman will refuse
an offer of marriage from a worthy, in
dustrious young man for no other rea-
son than that he is not able to surround
her at first with the comforts which
she may think she ought to have.
Young men, who have a due share of
the qualities which women esteem in
a husband, need not be afraid that girls
of that kind will refuse them, because
they may not be well endowed with
this world's goods. They will cheer-
fully bear their part of the burdens of
life without repining when confident of
the love and supporting and guiding
hand of their husbands.
AGAINST INCURRING DEBT.
	We feel led to caution the Latter-
day Saints against forming the bad
habit of incurring debt and taking
upon themselves obligations which fre-
quently burden them heavier than they
can bear, and lead to the loss of their
 homes and other possessions. We know
it is the fashion of the age to use credit
to the utmost limit, and it is custom-
ary for nations, states, counties and
cities to borrow money, issue bonds
and thus load themselves with taxes
to such an extent that large numbers
of the people are prevented from own-
ing land or even the houses which they
occupy. Thus the masses become ten-
ants and have to pay rent for land and
shelter. This is a great evil and one
that we,as a people and as individuals,
should carefully shun. Our business
should be done, as much as possible,
on the principle of paying for that
which we purchase, and our needs
should be brought within the limit of
our resources. The disposition to
speculate and to take chances upon
ventures of one kind and another
should be repressed. There are many
people who have been rendered home-
less in our Territory by the neglect of
this precaution. To raise funds to in-
vest in some scheme which has ap-
peared promising they have mortgaged
their homes, only too often, to be dis-
appointed and to find themselves with-
out a place of shelter for themselves
and their families. All this is wrong.
If the penalty for such unwisdom fell
upon the one through whose acts and
influence it is brought about, the con-
sequences would not be so deplorable;
but very frequently families suffer
and the bad results are widely
felt. We, therefore, repeat our
counsel to the Latter-day Saints,


[Column 1]
to shun debt. Be content with mod-
erate gains, and be not misled by illu-
sory hopes of acquiring wealth. Re-
member the saying of the wise man:
“But he that hasteth to get rich
shall not be innocent.” Let our chil-
dren also be taught habits of economy,
and not to indulge in tastes which
they cannot gratify without running in
debt.
 ZION SHALL NOT BE REMOVED.
	We have been favored, as no other 
people have, with wise counsels.
Their extent and variety are immeas-
urable. They cover every department
of human life. So far as we have ob-
served them; prosperity and happiness
have been the results. Whatever
difficulties we may have to contend
with to-day are due, if not wholly, at
least in great part, to our disregard of
them. Is not this the experience and 
testimony of all the faithful Saints
who have watched the progress of
events among us? Had we observed
these counsels, how many of the evils
from which we now suffer would
never have been known among us!
Our neglect of them has brought its
punishment, and the faithful can see 
it. But shall we not profit by the ex-
perience of the past and act more wise-
ly in the future? As the Lord has said
(Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 90, ver.
36 37),
	“But verily I say unto you, that I, the
Lord, will contend with Zion, and plead
with her strong ones, and chasten her until
she overcomes and is clean before me: For
she shall not be removed out of her place,
I, the Lord, have spoken it.”
	We should begin to understand that
God’s ways are infinitely superior to
our ways, and that His counsels, 
though they may seem to call for
sacrifice, are always the best and the
safest for us to adopt and carry out.
Thousands among us can testify to the
truth of this from individual experi-
ence. These thousands should com-
bine and create a public opinion in fa-
vor of obedience to the counsel of
heaven that will have its proper effect
upon our children and the inexperi-
enced among us.
	THE GLORY WILL BE THE LORD’S.
	We also should learn this great
truth, that God will have all the glory
and honor for the establishment of
His Church and Kingdom on the 
earth. Man cannot claim it in this or
any other age of the world. Nothing
but the power of God could have
brought forth the fullness of the Gos-
pel, organized the Church, gathered
His people to Zion in fulfillment of
revelation and performed the work
which has been accomplished. There-
fore, as Latter-day Saints, we are
obliged to acknowledge the hand of
God in all the blessings we enjoy.
	THE CONDUCT OF OUR LIVES.
	It should be the aim of all the mem-
bers of the Church to carry out prac-
tically in their lives the principles of
the Gospel. In no way can we better
convince the world of their truth than
in showing in our acts and dealings
with one another and with
mankind the elevating effect they 
have upon us. We make high profes-
sions, and there should be such a high
standard of purity of life among us as
to correspond with these professions.
Our children should be impressed with
this, and be taught that the name of
Saint is so holy that they only who
are pure in heart can claim it.
  If our religion does not lead us to
love our God and our fellow man and
to deal justly and uprightly with all 
men, then our profession of it is vain.
The Apostle says:
  “If a man say, I love God, and hateth his
brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not
his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he
love God whom he hath not seen?”
  We can best exemplify our love for
our God by living our religion. It is
vain to profess a love for God while
speaking evil of or doing wrong to His
children. The sacred covenants we
have made with Him strictly impose
upon us the duties we owe to one
another; and the great office of religion
is to teach us how to perform those
duties so as to produce the greatest
happiness for ourselves and for our
fellow-beings. When the obligations
of our religion are observed, no words
are spoken or acts are committed that
would injure a neighbor. If the Lat-
ter day Saints lived as they should do,
and as their religion teaches 
them to do, there would be
no feeling in any breast but

[Column 2]
that of brotherly and sisterly affection
and love. Backbiting and evil-speak-
ing would have no existence among
us; but peace and love and good will
would reign in all our hearts and hab-
itations and settlements. We would
be the happiest people on the face of
the earth, and the blessing and peace
of Heaven would rest upon us and 
upon all that belongs to us.
  If there be unhappiness and heart-
burnings and quarrelings and hatreds
among us, they exist because we do
not observe the religion which we pro-
fess. They are not its fruits. Where
these evils exist there is a crying ne-
cessity for repentance. If any feel in-
jured by the words or acts of their
brethren or sisters, the Gospel points
out and furnishes the way by which
this injury may be repaired. Instead
of talking about this to others they
should go to the person or persons
who have done the wrong and make
their feelings known. If satisfaction 
is then made, that ought to end the
matter; but if not, it can be reported 
to the proper officers of the Church for
them to take the necessary steps to
terminate the difficulties. In this way 
animosities and disunion can be pre-
vented and confidence be maintained.
	PARTAKING OF THE SACRAMENT.
	As Latter-day Saints, it is our gen-
eral custom to partake of the 
sacrament once a week. If
the teachings of our Lord, 
in remembrance of whom we observe 
this sacred ordinance, be regarded, no
one who has trespassed can be per-
mitted to share in it until he has made
reconciliation. It is the express com-
mandment of the Lord Jesus that no
one shall be permitted to partake of
His flesh and blood unworthily. A
more perfect system to prevent the
existence of improper feelings and
wrongs among brethren and sisters
can not be imagined. It the Saints do 
their duty, difficulties do not remained
unsettled beyond the Lord’s day when
they assemble to eat and drink in re-
membrance of Him.
	TEMPLE WORK.
	Notwithstanding the difficulties that
the Saints have had to contend with of 
late, they have pursued their labors in
every direction with unabated zeal.
This is particularly noticeable in their
attendance at the Temples. The wish
to avail themselves of the opportuni-
ties for attending to the ordinances for
themselves and their deceased friends
has; if anything, increased, and those
employed in these sacred buildings
have their time fully occupied in per-
formng their duties there. It is evi-
dent that the Latter-day Saints ap-
preciate the blessings to be obtained
through Temple work. When we
reflect that we have two buildings of 
this character already completed,
furnishing abundant facilities for
all who choose to go there to
obtain the ordinaces of God’s
house for themselves and for
those in whose salvation they take
so deep an interest, and that we have
another temple at Manti nearing com-
pletion, and one in Salt Lake City,
which we hope to see finished before
ong, our hearts are filled with glad-
ness and we cannot refrain from prais-
ing our God for His goodness unto His
people in permitting them, notwith-
standing the opposition and many dif-
ficulties they have had to contend
with, to erect such structures and to 
dedicate them, according to the pat-
tern He has given for these sacred
uses.
	No right feeling Latter-day Saint
can think upon this subject without
being thrilled with heavenly joy for
what God has done for us in our gener-
ation, furnishing us, as He has done,
with every facility to prepare us, our
posterity and our ancestors for that
eternal world which lies beyond the
present life. The Latter-day Siants
are, in truth, a highly favored people,
and praise to God should ascend from
every heart and habitation in our land
for the great mercy and goodness
which He has shown unto us. He has
made us promises of the most precious
character, and he has fulfilled them up
to the present time. We would be the
most ungrateful and unworthy people
that ever lived if, after receiving such
wonerful manifestations of His good-
ness, we slackened in our diligence or
failed in our obedience and devotion
to Him and His great cause.
	FOREIGN MISSIONS
	The treatment which the Elders have 
received in preaching the Gospel

[Column 3]
throughout the Southern States, as
we are informed by President John
Morgan, has been much better of late
than it has been at some other periods.
The Elders are listened to with more
patience and do not meet with so much
of the spirit of mobocracy and un-
reasoning hate. Additions are being 
made to the Church, and those who
emigrate from that region have gener
ally settled in San Luis Valley, Colo-
rado.
	The Elders in the North Western
States under the direction of President
W. M. Palmer, pursue their labors
with undiminished zeal and with mod-
erate success in bringing people into
the Church. These fields of labor
have furnished opportunities for num-
bers of our young men to gain experi-
ence in missionary efforts, and those
who have this privilege return home,
in the most of instances, better quali-
fied to assist the local authorities
where they reside in the labors of the 
ministry.
	In Great Britain the Elders meet
with considerable oppoisition in places, 
principally, however, from apostates.
They find that field a much more dif-
ficult one than it was in former years.
The hearts of the people seem to have
become hardened, and great indiffer-
ence prevails in regard to religion.
Still we learn from President George
Teasdale, who presides at the present
time over the European Mission, that
the Elders who zealously enter into
the labors of the ministry find abund-
ant cause for rejoicing in the success
which attends their exertions.
Throughout the Swiss and German
Mission presided over by Elder Fred
erick Schoenfeld, and the Scandina-
vian Mission presided over by Elder N.
C. Flygare, the Elders, are laboring
also with commendable zeal and with
gratifying results. An effort is being 
made at the present time to preach the
Gospel in Turkey, where Elders Jacob
Sport, J. M. Tanner and F. F. Hintze
have been, and are laboring, and even
the land of Palestine has been visited,
and in the late company of emigrants
which reached this city from Europe,
nine persons were gathered who had
received the Gospel in that 
land, a land hallowed to 
us as the earthly home of 
our Redeemer, and the soil of which
his sacred feet trod.
	On the Sandwich Islands the Elders
are laboring faithfully under the direc-
tion of President William King, and
everything is being done to improve
the condition of that people and to
save them from the destruction which
threatens the extinction of the race.
The plantation at Laie is still main-
tained, and the Elders who have la-
bored and who are still laboring there
enter with spirit into the management
of that property in a way to benefit as
much as possible the native Saints.
The attention of the Elders there is di
rected at present to the Navigator
Islands, where some few years ago 
two native Elders from the Sandwich
Islands were successful in baptizing a
large number of natives and organizing
them into branches. These Islands
have not been visited by any of the 
white Elders, but it is probable that
some of our Elders on the Sandwich
Islands may in the near future make a
visit there. 
	The letters which we receive
from New Zealand where Presi-
dent William Paxman presides,
continue to bring us gratifying intelli-
gence concerning the condition and 
progress of the work there. The
Elders are very successful among the
Maories. Many of the white brethren
have succeeded in acquiring the lan-
guage of that race, which is cognate to
that of the Sandwich Islands, and two of
them, Elders Ezra T. Richards and
Sondra Sanders, Jr, are now en-
gaged, we are informed, in translating
the Book of Mormon into the Maori
language. In Australia the Elders are
also laboring, but it is a much harder
field than among the natives of New
Zealand.
	HOME MANUFACTURERS.
	Frequent reference has been made in 
past teachings and in former Epistles
to the subject of home manufacturers.
It has been, and we feel it still ought
to be, a theme of inexhaustible inter-
est to Zion; yet there remains an im-
mense amount to be done in develop-
ing our resources and furnishing facil-
ities for the employment of the people.
It is pleasing to note the progress
which is being made in some direc-
tions. Our woolen manufacturers are
gaining credit for their excellence in

[Column 4
other communities as well as our own.
But we export considerable wool even
after all our facotries are well sup-
plied. If this could be manufactured
at home, it would add greatly to the 
wealth of our community, not only in
the profits which would accrue from the
use of machinery, but in the employ-
ment it would furnish to many 
of our citizens Besides the manufac-
ture of woolen cloths, there is excel-
lent quality which is placed on the 
market.
	The range of articles which are
manufactured in this Territory is
gradually increasing; and from the
feeling which now prevails we judge
that many more branches will soon be
added to those already in operation.
The manufacture of soaps of various
grades has now become a settled and
paying business. A fine quality of hats
is also made. Boots and shoes and
clothing, glass, white lead, lead 
pipe, native paints, brushes,
paper, printing type, starch,
pearl barley and oatmeal are all manu-
factured in the Territory, and many of
these articles in sufficient quantities
to supply the local demand and to ex-
port to some extent. It is an ecour-
aging feature in the most of these en-
terprises that those engaged in them
are seeking to enlarge their facilities
with the view to increase their produc-
tion. We have a large number of 
children growing up among us who
should be furnished with opportuni-
ties to acquire skill in mechanism,
manufactures, and other pursuits
which are necessary for the comfort
of man. It is not only incumbent upon
parents to seek for avenues of prof-
itable employment for their children,
but it should be kept in view by the 
leading men of the church in all our
settlements. An idle man’s brain, it
is said, is the devil’s workshop, and
no community can prosper and main-
tain a high standard of morality that
does not furnish employment for its 
members. Far better to work for low
wages than not to work at all. But
with proper care, and by putting in
use the experience that many individ-
uals in every settlement possess, there
need be no want of remunerative em-
ployment for the rising generation,
and for others who may come in from 
abroad. It may not always be kept
in mind, yet it is a fact, that any per-
centage of idle persons in a commu-
nity is a direct loss to the whole.
it is unfortunate also for a 
community, when the young
and enterprising are compelled 
to leave it and go elsewhere to find
employment or room for the exercise
of the talent of which they feel them-
selves possessed. Settlements that 
are in this situation will languish and
go to decay, while others that furnish
facilities for employment will become
thrifty and prosperous. The combi-
nation of capital by means of co-op-
eration would, in many instances, en-
able settlements to start branches of
manufacture and conduct them suc-
cessfully. C-imerical schemes, how-
ever, should not be encouraged, as 
their failure destroys confidence and 
makes it more difficult to obtain aid
for worthy enterprises which might be
made successful. Where co-opera-
tion has failed among us, it has not
been because of the principle is defect-
ive, but because of mismanagement,
sometimes from ignorance and care-
lessness, and sometimes, perhaps, from
selfishness.
	Our coutnry abounds in useful ele-
ments. We have a fertile soil, when
properly cultivated, and an admirable
climate. Grains, fruits, and vegeta-
bles, as well as all kinds of stock, can
be raised here, and as superior in
quality as can be found anywhere on
the earth. Care should be taken to
raised the very best varieties. Our 
horses, cattle, sheep, and poultry, as 
well as our grains, and fruits, and
vegetables, should be of the very 
best kinds, and no pains should be
spared to keep them pure. Our sus-
tem of irrigation does not admit
of the cultivation of large areas of 
land. Our farms are moderate in ex-
tent. This being the case, they should
be cultivated in the most approved
style, and the whole business con-
nected with a farm should be con-
ducted in a manner to bring the best
results. As facilities for education
increase, there undoubtably will be a
marked imporvment in the manage-
ment of all these branches of busi-
ness. 	
	PRACTICAL EDUCATION.
	It is gratifying to notice the interest


[Column 1]
that is being taken among us in educa-
tion; yet there is great room for im-
provement.  As the taste for what may 
be called book-learning increases,
manual labor should not be neglected.
The education of the mind and the 
education of the body should go hand
in hand.  A skillful brain should be
joined with a skillful hand.  Manual
labor should be dignified among us
and always be made honorable.  The
tendency, which is too common in 
these days, for young men to get a 
smattering of education and then
think themselves unsuited for
mechanical or other laborious pur-
suits is one that should not be allowed
to grow among us.  Of course it is
necessary as society is now organized,
that the professions, as they are
termed, should receive attention.  But
every one should make it a matter of
pride to be a producer, and not a 
consumer alone.  Our children should
be taught to sustain themselves by
their own industry and skill, and not
only to do this, but to help sustain
others, and that to do this by honest
toil is one of the most honorable 
means which God has furnished to his
children here on the earth.  The sub
ject of the proper education of the
youth of Zion is one of the greatest
importance.
	President Brigham Young during his 
lifetime established schools in Provo
and Logan, where the principles of the
Gospel have been taught in connection
with other branches of education, and
more recently similar schools have
been commenced, and conducted with
marked success; in Salt Lake, Beaver
and Fillmore Cities.
     The good results arising from teach-
ings received in the Provo and Logan
Academies are very apparent and
pleasing to all who have the interests 
of the young at heart, and we regret
that such institutions are so limited in 
number.
	Through the indefatigable labors of
Professors Karl G. Maeser, J. Z. Stew-
art and their associates, these schools
have done, and are now doing, a great
work in educational advancement, by
instilling a knowledge of the princi-
ples of the Gospel of life and salva-
tion into the minds of our children,
upon whose shoulders the Kingdom of
God must rest in the near future.
     We trust it will not be long before
schools of this kind will be established
in every city and village where the 
Latter-day Saints reside.  In the 
meantime, however, the Saints should
not fail to avail themselves of the
privileges that are now offered them in
the Provo, Logan, Beaver, Fillmore,
and Salt Lake Academies.

THE “CHURCH SUITS.”

	Congress, at its last session as you
are aware, passed a law entitled “An
Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to
amend Section 5352 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, in refer-
ence to bigamy, and for other pur-
poses,” etc.
     Under the 15th and 17th sections of
this law the Perpetual Emigrating
Fund Company and the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are
respectively declared dissolved, and
in this Act it is made the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States
to cause proceedings to be taken in the
Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah to wind up the affairs of said as-
sociations.
     Pursuant to the duty thus imposed
upon the Attorney General, on the 30th
day of July, 1887, proceedings were be-
gun in said court by the United States
against the Perpetual Emigrating Fund
Company and its trustees, and the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints and its alleged trustees for the
purpose of disposing of the property of
the one and winding up the affairs of the
other: asking in these suits to escheat
to the United States large amounts
of property alleged to be held by these 
two defendants.  At the time of this 
writing nothing has been done in these 
cases further than to appear and an-
swer the complaints.  What the result
of these cases will be, we, of course
cannot now say.  It is proper, how-
ever, that we should speak upon this
important proceeding and let the
Saints know how the cases stand.
	The Perpetual Emigrating Fund
Company, as all of you well know,
was conceived and organized for but
one purpose, namely, to aid the poor of
our people in their humble efforts to
gather with their brethren.  It has
been for this charitable purpose, the
object of the generous bounty of the
Latter-day Saints, but at no time in 

[Column 2]
its history has it owned any real es-
tate, or any personal property, save
sufficient for its absolute needs each
succeeding year.  The Church on the
other hand has been the owner of
property, the gifts and bequests of an
earnest, sincere people, made for the
purpose of aiding in the propagation
of the Gospel of our Savior
Jesus Christ.  The effort now being 
made by our government to dissolve
or wind up these associations and
escheat their property, is the first of
the kind in the history of our people,
and is believed to be without histori-
cal precedent in this country.  When
we say we shall watch these cases with
deep interest, the Saints will readily
believe that it is not alone for the
property involved in these suits, but
also for the principles and rights that 
are at stake.

OUR SETTLEMENTS IN ARIZONA.

	The intelligence which reaches us 
from our settlements in Arizona is en-
couraging; and we note with pleasure
that the people of the settlements at
St. Johns and Woodruff have conquered
some of the difficulties with which
they had to contend, and which made
their position very trying.  Indeed,
the news from all the Stakes there is 
gratifying.

IN IDAHO.

	In Idaho, though our people pay
taxes and support the schools, every-
one of our faith is denied the privilege
of acting in the capacity of a school
trustee or teacher, and no one with
our belief can take the test oath that
has been prescribed by the Legislature.
The situation of the people there is
one that excites great sympathy.  They
are practically denied the rights of
American citizens through the infa-
mous test oath law which was enacted
by the Legislature.  It is very trying
to their patience and bears heavily up-
on them.  But the day must come
when they will be relieved from the
operation of this infamous law.

IN COLORADO.

	In San Luis Valley, Colorado, the
efforts of our people to open and cul-
tivate farms, and to surround them-
selves with the necessaries and com-
forts of life, are meeting with gratify-
ing success.  This is the more note-
worthy because of the fact that the
great bulk of settlers there have
moved from a warm climate and have
not had experience in battling with
the difficulties that have to be met in
the building up of new settlements in
an untried soil and climate.  Like the
Saints in Wyoming, those who reside
in Colorado have always received fair
treatment and encouragement and
kind consideration from their neigh-
bors and the officials of the State.

IN MEXICO.

	Our settlements in Mexico are pro-
gressing favorably and are gradually
being strengthened, both at Diaz and
Juarez.  At the places named and in
the Sierra Madre Mountains near the
latter, we have nearly one hundred and
fifty thousand acres of grazing, timber
and agricultural lands.
	The country is well adapted to stock-
raising, as the grasses are of good 
quality and great variety, while the
climate is uniform, the temperature
seldom reaching higher than 85 degrees
or lower than an approach to the
freezing point.  The facilities for
making comfortable homes there are
excellent, the land, water and timber
being good.  A fine steam saw, shingle
and lath mill, and a planer and
moulder, are in operation, affording
building material within easy reach of
Juarez.
	The treatment of our people by the
national and state officials in Mexico
and her citizens generally, has been
cordial and hospitable.  By word and
act they have encouraged colonization
in the Republic.  The settlements in
Chihuahua afford abundance of room
for several hundred families and they
could live there in peace, and by ordin-
ary habits of industry would soon make
themselves prosperous and happy.
	The Mexican Mission was opened in
1879, and the Church now has quite a 
large following of native Saints, mainly
located in and about the national cap-
ital. The Book of Mormon, Voice of
Warning, and numerous pamphlets
have been published in the Spanish
language and are being distributed ac-
cording to ancient predictions.  Thus
the truth is being spread abroad among

[column 3]
the seed of Israel through the means
of the record of their fathers, as well
as by the preaching of the Elders.

	THE ALBERTA COLONY.

	Recent letters from President Charles
O. Card, in charge of our colony in
Canada, contain information of a grati-
fying nature.  The soil upon which
they are located is said to be very pro-
ductive, and the grain and vegetables
produced are of excellent quality, and
range for stock is abundant and nutri-
tious.  The colony is preparing for
winter, and the families composing it
will soon have their houses completed.
They have opened a fine vein of coal
within three miles of their settlement,
which is on Lees Creek, Alberta,
Canada.
     The treatment accorded the Saints
there, by officials and people, has been
considerate and kind, and the pros-
pects for improvements and prosperity
are good.  Brother Card would be glad
to have any of the Saints, contemplat-
ing a change of location, to join him,
in that land, and we will gladly ap-
prove efforts in that direction.
     We may be led, hereafter, to call
some of the brethren to go there with
their families, to aid him in developing
the resources of that goodly land.

	CONCLUSION.

	We cannot refrain from expressing
to you our own feelings of thankful-
ness that we live in such an age, and
that God has bestowed upon us His
Holy Priesthood and has permitted us
to take part in His great work. We
are thankful that we are associated
with this people called Latter-day
Saints; that we live in a day when
Prophets and Apostles have been raised
up in the Church of Christ; and that
God has stretched forth His hand to
fulfil His great and marvelous pur-
poses which have been predicted by
the mouths of the holy prophets since
the world began.  We testify in the 
name of our Lord and Master, Jesus,
that this is the great work of which
the prophets have spoken, that God is
the founder of it, and that it will stand
forever, and accomplish all that has
been predicted concerning it.  Zion is
established and will be redeemed.  And
it is our continual desire unto God that
His people may be faithful in keeping
His commandments and doing His
will, so that they may be accounted 
worthy to stand, and their children
after them, and inherit the great bless-
ings which He has to bestow upon
the faithful.  The day is not far dis-
tant when our Lord and Savior will be
revealed from the heavens, and we
should live in constant expectation of
this great event, and seek, with all the
energy and power that we can exercise
and obtain, to prepare ourselves, our
households, and, as far as we have in-
fluence, the inhabitants of the earth,
for His glorious appearing.
Your Brother,
WILFORD WOODRUFF,
     In behalf of the Council of the 
Twelve Apostles.


74	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


75	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


76	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]JOURNEYING EASTWARD.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
*	*	*	All night of the first of
July last the thunder roared and light-
ning flashed but no rain fell.
July 2nd. The sun rose bright and
clear and we soon felt his piercing rays
which rendered the close cars oppres-
sively warm, but we endeavored to for-
get personal discomfort in admiration
of the beautiful passing panorama seen
from the car window. We seem to be
passing through one vast grove of tim-
er with occasional clearings to make
space for fields of corn which seems to
be the principal product of this region.
We have passed through Topeka and
other thriving little towns. An ex-
cursion train has just stopped at a beau-
tiful park, which is thronged with
young people in holiday attire, their
many sports and ringing laughter in-
dicating the lightness of their hearts.
We see them but for a moment, as it
were, and then plunge onward in the
midst of a dense forest of stately trees
of every species, and all ages from the
tiny sapling to the sturdy veteran of
many winters. All so interesting and
beautiful—many of them entwined
with beautiful ivy. In many localities
where the timber has been burnt out
to make room for farms, stumps of
trees are left which are almost invaria-
bly covered with this beautiful flower-
ing vine. One very large tree which

[Column 2]
looked like it might have died from old
age, was entwined even to the very top
with a lovely vine called the “wild oak”
with bell-shaped scarlet flowers thick-
ly interspersed among the green leaves.
How many lessons we learn from na-
ture; here she seemed trying to hide
the deformities and blemishes of her
children by throwing over them this
beautiful raiment, thus making them
even more attractive than originally.
Oh, could we but follow this sublime
example by enveloping the frailties
of others in a munificent mantle of
charity. We are traveling along the
banks of the Missouri river the fleecy
clouds of the summer sky and the
trees, the flowers and foliage are re-
flected in the water every tint true to
life, making a rapidly changing pic-
ture beautiful to behold.
We arrived at Kansas City at 5 45 p.m.
and were met by Mr. Hendersnot the
gentlemanly and courteous agent of
the D. and R. G. line—well known to
many of Utah’s travelers for his con-
siderate attention while sojourning for
a brief or longer period in this remark-
ably growing city. After a thorough
application of a liberal supply of aqua
et saponis, and partaking free-
ly of the contents of the lunch basket,
we felt more comfortable both physic-
ally and spiritually. My manly com-
panions then took a stroll to see the
sights in this, the largest city they had
ever seen. At 9 20 we again resume our
journey, and thanks to the kindness of
Mr. Hendersnot we are ensconced in
an elegant parlor car, each having a
fine reclining chair in which we pass
a very comfortable night.
July 3rd. The Sabbath morn dawned,
but rather cloudy, with a few rain-
drops falling, which served to enhance
the beauty of the scene the foliage and
flowers look so bright and clear show-
ing up the varied tints so beautifully.
We traveled for many miles
along the banks of the Spring
River in Missouri—that land
where the Saints suffered so many
trials and persecutions. I think the
most poetic imagination could not de-
pict a more romantic picture. The
pure clear water at times moving
silently and placidly beneath the
spreading branches of the ivy-clad oak.
at other points it forms cascades and
miniature Niagaria’s as it dashes over
rocks or fallen trees with musical
echoes that are heard even above the
harsher notes of the swiftly moving
train. Flowers too, nature’s fairest
gems are peeping through the luxuri-
ant grass that covers the moistened
banks—occasionally a stray sunbeam
causes the dewdrops on the leaves to
sparkle like myriads of diamonds. The
oldtime grapevine swings are here
formed by nature, where we see many
trees fallen by age covered with sweet
moss and lichen, nature here seeking
to hide deformities an example that,
even her higher species would do well
to imitate.
We are now traveling through the
fertile region of Arkansas timber and
vegetation seems to grow almost spon-
taneously, corn and cotton seem to be
the principal products. Whole groves
of timber are burned down to make
room for cornfields, trees are cut down
and left to decay by the change of time.
I cannot but experience regret that
this superfluity cannot be utilized for
those who live in sage brush and sandy
regions.
At 4 45 o’clock we reach Memphis
where the whole train passed across
the Mississippi River on the ferry boat
to South Memphis, a large old fashioned,
city mostly inhabited by negroes. We
were switched around from the main
depot to the “Union” a transaction
which occupied about an hour’s time
but gave us an opportunity to see
something of the city. How strange
to see the colored element predominat-
ing. Scarcely a white face can be seen,
when they see it, it is only
as overseers or superintendents
for the manual labor seems
to be all done by the negroes. We again
resume our journey and are being
carried swiftly across tbe State of
Tennessee. In the evening we saw a
demonstration of Southern character;
a man promptly put off the train for us-
ing abusive language to the conductor.
The man in question was under the in-
fluence of liquor and had annoyed
many of the passengers in fact the re-
pose of all on the train was disturbed
for he went from one car to another
shouting and staggering about, so that
his ejection was a source of relief to
all and we afterward obtained some
rest.
ELLIS R. S.


77	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	OCTOBER 15, 1887.


OCTOBER.

October is the month that seems
All woven with midsummer dreams;
She brings for us the golden days
That fill the air with smoky haze;
She brings for us the lisping breeze,
And wakes the gossips in the trees,
Who whisper in the vacant nest
Forsaken	by its feathered guest.
Now half the birds forget to sing,
And half of them have taken wing,
Before their pathway shall be lost
Beneath the gossamer of frost;
Now one by one the gay leaves fly
Zigzag across the yellow sky;
They rustle here and flutter there,
Until the bough hangs chill and bare.
What joy for us—what happiness
Shall cheer the day, the night shall bless?
’Tis Hallow-e’en, the very last
Shall keep for us remembrance fast.
When every child shall duck the head
To find the precious pippin red!
—Frank Dempster Shermam in St. Nicholas for October.


OCTOBER CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference held this month in
Salt Lake City, was replete with interest through-
out. The first morning the Tabernacle was
crowded, and each day thereafter, morning and
afternoon; and on Sunday hundreds went away
unable to obtain seats, while many stood in the
aisles and doorways during the service. A great
deal of emotion was evinced when President
Wilford Woodruff came on the stand just previous
to the commencement, of the afternoon services.
Never upon any Sabbath day in the Tabernacle
was there such an expression made of es-
teem and reverence as when this aged man
and servant of God appeared in the midst of
the people, after an absence of nearly three
years. It must have been a testimony to
him that he could not fail to appreci-
ate of the genuine love and esteem of the Latter-
day Saints. God grant him many such oppor-
tunities of meeting with the Saints, and may he
live to accomplish all that he desires to do for the
living and the dead, and his enemies have no
power to hinder him in the performance of the
great work to which he has been called.
	It is something to rejoice in, under the circum-
stances. that at such a multitudinous gathering as
that of Sunday, the 9th of October, that so many
of the quorum of the Apostles could be present,
and that the people might enjoy the privilege of
looking upon their faces, and of hearing them
speak and bear testimony. It was a good day for
Israel, and no doubt many hundreds went away
not only edified and instructed and comforted, but
happier in spirit and feeling at having been per-
mitted to behold again those who have borne in a
great measure the responsibility of the establish-
ing of this kingdom, and from time to time perse-
cution, affliction, hardship and privation, yet re-


mained firm, steadfast and immoveable in those
eternal principles upon which the Gospel is
founded.
	And thus, while passing through difficulties and
suffering for the truth’s sake, the Saints have
reason to rejoice in it all, knowing that the triumph
is sure, and the reward cannot fail.


[Column 1]
		﻿THE MINORITY REPORT.

	It is a little satisfaction to know that there are,
among the Utah Commission, two men whose
opinions on the subject of more legislation for Utah
differ essentially from the majority, and who seem
to have some conscientious convictions, and are
not in favor of more severe laws or enforcement
of laws than what are already in force. The mi-
nority report to which we refer contains some
quotations from Madison and Jefferson that bear
strongly upon the question treated upon and every
true lover of justice would do well to bear them in
mind. Reference is also made to the Supreme
Court of the United States and the quotation made
is in unmistakable language.” The Supreme
Court of the United States has declared that
Laws are made for the government of actions
and while they cannot interfere with mere religious
belief, they may with practices. Con-
gress cannot pass a law for the government of the
Territories which shall prohibit the free exercise
of religion. The first amendment to the constitu-
tion expressly forbids such legislation. Religious
freedom is guaranteed everywhere throughout the
United States so far as Congressional interference
is concerned. [8 Otto, 145.]
	Madison says sententiously: “Religion, or the
duty we owe to the Creator, is not within the pro-
vince of civil government.”
	Jefferson says: “Believing that religion is a mat-
ter which lies solely between man and his God;
and that he owes account to none other for his
faith or his worship; that the legislative
powers of the government reach actions only and
not opinions, I contemplate with solemn reverence
that act of the whole American people which de-
clares that their legislature should make no law
respecting an establishment of religion, or pro-
hibiting the free exercise thereof." [8 Jefferson's
Work, 113]
	Upon the passage of the Act of March, 3, 1887,
similar views were expressed by distinguished
senators from Vermont and Kansas.
	Acting upon these fundamental canons, and in
accordance with the acts of Congress,
the commission has from time to time,
in official reports and otherwise, assured the Mor-
mon people that the government of the United 
States had no design to coerce them concerning
their church membership or their religious opin-
ions; and that all that was required; and all that
could rightfully be required, was that they
should come within the laws and abandon the
practice of polygamy. For example, in the com-
mission's first annual report, of November 17, 
1882, it said: "the legislation of Congress as we
understand it is not enacted against the religion of
any portion of the people of this territory. The
law under which we are acting is directed against
the crime of polygamy."
	These gentlemen give their ideas concerning plu-
ral marriage and its effects, which are entirely dis-
proved by facts as they exist here, but as it is not
expected that those outside the principles of the
faith of the Church can comprehend this higher
order of marriage as the Latter-day Saints do, it
is not strange that they should agree with other
writers upon the subject. Still men spending so
much time in the midst of this people, if they
were freefrom prejudice and disposed to investigate
carefully would be likely to arrive at different con-
clusions than such as they express in the following
paragraph:
	"In a larger view, polygamy is adjudged by the

[Column 2]
most enlightened nations to be a manifold
evil. It is the parent of caprice, cruelty and
license. It enervates the male and degrades the
female. Socially, politically and physically, it is
corrupting and deteriorating. Despotic in the
family, it is the prototype of despotism in the gov-
ernment. It largely accounts for the differing
characteristic of the Asiatic and European; for
the indolence and feebleness of the one, and the
energy and enterprise of the other. Inferiority is
its badge. In the armed contests of rival civiliza-
tions alike in ancient Greece and modern India,
it succumbed to the superiority of monogamy. It
is at variance with the divine economy if that,
originally God created but one man and one
woman, Adam and Eve, each as the only partner
in wedlock of the other. Logically and as a con-
sequence, it is irreconcilable to the idea of the
marriage covenant as practiced and revered by the
masterful Teuton, Celt and Anglo Saxon.
	In the matter of abolishing "polygamy" by en-
forcing at all hazards the Edmunds-Tucker bill
with all the pains and penalties thereunto apper-
taining, Congress nor the officers of the law have
never considered the cruelties thus in-
flicted upon women and children (leav-
ing men out of the question.) They
do not consider that the plural wife loves
her husband as sincerely and devotedly as the first
wife—that the children are completely robbed of
the parental protection of the father, as far as it is
in the power of Congress to do so. Can it be
possible that these men think seriously of the
broken hearts and ruined homes, and of the
many who have died in consequence? Or do
they deem it so small a matter to enter the sacred
precincts of a loving home, and rend asunder the
most holy ties of husband and wife, who have
solemnly covenanted before God and angels, not
only for time, but for all eternity? There is, how-
ever, a boundary over which they cannot pass, and
where they can have no jurisdiction, nor can they
sit in judgment there on their fellow beings.
	The questions propounded to Judge Zane by 
Hon. John A. McClernand of the Utah Commis-
sion, who, with A. B. Carlton made the Minority
Report to the Secretary of the Interior at Wash-
ington, D. C., are to the point, and the answers
are positive and brief:
	1st. Whether, in your opinion, the existing
laws, diligently and strictly enforced, may be
reasonably relied on to work the cessation of
polygamy as a practice?
	2d. Whether any case originating in the com-
mission of the crime of polygamy since the date
of the Edmunds-Tucker act has come under you
judicial notice?
	3d. Whether, in your opinion, the alternative
provisions of that act extending the electoral
franchise to those complying with their conditions,
and denying it to those not complying with them,
or who are otherwise disqualified, have materially
prompted the present movement for a constitu-
tional inhibition of polygamy.
(Signed.) 	Your Obedient Servant,
				JOHN A. MCCLERNAND.
	To the first question propounded within, I
answer yes.
	To the second question, I answer no.
	To the third question, I answer yes.
	(Signed.)					C. S. ZANE.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	OUR readers will readily understand that as we
published the Epistle of President Woodruff and
Council, that there is little room for Relief Society
Reports or other general matter. The Juab Stake
minutes of R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A., and
also Box Elder, Summit, and Tooele Stakes are
on hand, and will have place in the coming
issues of the paper.


THE report of the Utah Commission has been
publised in full in the Deseret News and Salt Lake
Herald, and we think every woman
as well as every man should read it and see for
themselves just how the "Mormon" question is
viewed by the Commission and how needful they
think it to have further legislation. In consider-
ing this subject it seems impossible for men with
human hearts to ask for further persecution of a
people already, as it were, pushed to the extreme;
how much more the Commission think can possi-
bly be borne one cannot even imagine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		SAN JUAN STAKE. 

	The conference of the Relief Society and
Y. L. M. I. A. of San Juan Stake was held at
Mancos, Colorado, Aug. 27th, 1887, Prest.
J. M. Walton presiding. After the usual open-
ing exercises, the different wards were reported,
all of which were in good condition. Sister
Martha Hammond was chosen Second Counselor
to J. M. Walton, and was unanimously sus-
tained, and was set apart by President F. A.
Hammond. All the sisters manifested a good
spirit, and desired to live their religion. 
	The Young Ladies occupied a portion of the
time, Prest. Moselle Hall presiding. The
Young Ladies’ Associations of the different
wards were reported in good condition, and all
feeling well. Singing. Benediction by Bishop
Jens Nielson.
			JANE M. WALTON, Prest.,
			JULIA BUTT, Sec.
			
			JUAREZ.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking you would like to hear something
from our Relief Society in far off Mexico, I
will give you a brief account of our organiza-
tion.
	Our Relief Society was organized July 7th,
1887, Sister Elizabeth Hawkins, Presi-
dent; Sarah A. Corden and Phebe Fife, Coun-
selors; Elizabeth Haines Secretary, and Salena
Corden, Treasurer Apostle Erastus Snow was
present and assisted in organizing, also Sister
Minerva W. Snow was with us, and gave many
good instructions. We hold our meetings
semi-monthly. We have thirty-nine names
enrolled, and fifteen average attendance. Most
of the people enjoy good health, and appreci-
ate the peace we enjoy here.
			ELIZABETH HAWKINS, Prest.
			ELIZABETH HAINES, Sec.
			
			MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Maricopa Stake held
their quarterly conference at Zenos, Sept. 22nd.
1887,commencing at 1 p.m., Mrs.E. G. McDon-
ald presiding. A number of the brethren were
present, including Bro. Henry Rogers and
Charles I. Robson of the Stake Presidency;
also Bishop Pomeroy and Counselors. After
the usual preliminaries of singing and prayer,
the roll of Stake officers was called and minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald made a few remarks,
and prayed that the Spirit of God would direct
us in our meeting. Desired to hear the reports
from the different branches. This was re-			
sponded to with the exception of the Tempe
branch, which was not in working order, on
account of the general move being made from
that branch.
	Coun. Adelaide Allen represented the Mesa
Ward; Prest. Lizzie McDonald, Lehi; Prest.
Ann Kleinman, Almy. All spoke in praise of
the faithful few in their several branches; the
few who were always ready with generous
hearts and willing hands to comfort those who
were in trouble and assist the needy; always
[Column 2]									
present at their meetings, and faithful to their
duties connected, with their organization.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt gratified with
the good reports which had been given, but felt
there was an inexcusable slackness with a good
many in regard to their meetings. Had visited
the different branches since last conference,and
felt gratified with the good spirit which at-
tended their meetings. Spoke upon the sub-
ject of slander and of the baneful influence it
exercised in a community if given way to; it
should not have a place in our midst; it had
brought sorrow and heart-aches to many an 
innocent person. Spoke of the trying times 
the Saints were passing through; let them re-
joice and trust in God, for He alone can carry
us safely through. Wished to hear from the
brethren present.
	Bro. Henry Rogers was pleased to respond
to the call made upon him. Spoke in regard
to the first organization of the Relief Society
by Joseph Smith, the Prophet of the Most
High God. They were intended for good, and
were a great benefit when carried on properly.
“Let us avoid the spirit of fault-finding of the
ward, stake, or society.” Compared the
Saints to wheat and tares. “Are we wheat or
tares?” Exhorted the Saints to be faithful to
all their duties, that they might retain a name
and place in the Church and kingdom of God.
	Bro. Charles Robson spoke of the evil influ-
ences which are around us continually to lead
us astray. “Good and evil are placed before
us, which will we choose? Let us secure
eternal life by choosing the good continually.”
Spoke of the benefit of prayer. “Our hearts
should be lifted in prayer to God while we are
at our labors, and blessings will flow on every
hand. Let us pray for our officers, instead of
criticising them.” Gave some good instruc-
tions in regard to the principles of obedience;
exhorted mothers to teach this principle to their
children.	
	They were followed in their remarks by
Bishops Pomeroy and Stewart, who felt to en-
dorse what had been said, and to encourage the
sisters in their good work.
	The names of the Relief Society officers of
the Stake were then presented to the conference,
and were sustained unanimously; the statistical
and financial report was also read by the Secre-
tary.
	After a few remarks by the President, con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing,
“Guide us, O, Thou Great Jehovah.” Bene-
diction by Bro. Charles Allen.
			    SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.


﻿IDLENESS.

DEAR SISTERS:
	The inspired servants of God, both ancient and
modern, prove that idleness is a sin. Idleness
is not commendable in any one. Industry and
diligence in any useful pursuit is a becoming
trait in any one’s character. The Lord, in one
of His revelations to Joseph Smith, gives this
expressive injunction to the Saints:
	“Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease
to find fault with one another; retire to thy bed
early, that ye may not be weary; arise early,
that your bodies and your minds may be in-
vigorated."
	This counsel is not for the poor alone, but
for all who would be accepted of the Lord.
No person is justified, whatever may be his
fortune, in spending his time in idleness. Not
only is industry enjoined by the Almighty,
but it is happiness in this life, which we are
all striving for. The person who thinks that
happiness is to be found in luxurious idleness
makes a great mistake. Industry brings health
and the ability to confer benefits upon others.
The person who has never felt the joy and


satisfaction that results from this cause, has
never known what genuine happiness is.
	Industry is honorable, idleness is degrading.
Girls, in making choice of a husband, shun the
idler, or the person who wishes to make a liv-
ing without work. If there are any of our ac-
quaintances who think there are better ways of
making a living than by honest labor, they are
mistaken, and beware of allowing your affec-
tions to go out toward them in the least. If
you join fortunes with such a person for life,
the chances are you will have to support him,
or be degraded and mortified by seeing him
resort to dishonest methods of securing a liv-
ing. Think of the words of the wise man,
“Seest thou a man diligent in business.”
					HATTIE ADAMS.
	Nephi.


﻿DON’T, MOTHERS!

	An indignant but sensible friend of mine 
exclaimed the other day, “There should be a
law passed against tiny infants being paraded 
in public.” If mothers with babies three or 
four weeks old are able, with perfect safety for
their future as well as present good to be on
the streets, (which I very much doubt in this
degenerate age) well and good, if you run out
for an hour or two for a “change” but oh, do 
leave the little red, wriggling, writhing, bits
of humanity safe at home in their cosy cribs
away from the glare of sun and changes of
wind and weather.
	The public are not particularly interested in
your individual wonder, and there is such a
feeling of pity expressed for the little martyrs
on exhibition in trailing and multitudious
skirts, elaborate cloaks and fluffy hoods. Do 
let the downy human birdlings stay in the 
home nest until full fledged.		         	L.


GEMS.

	“The seeds of love can never grow but under
the warm and genial influence of kindly feel-
ings and affectionate manners.”

	“I believe in the democracy of the family.
If in this world there is anything splendid, it
is a home where all are equal.”

	The path from an open violation of con
science to a condition of religious doubt, is as
direct as that which leads to heaven.—J. G.
Holland.

	“In life it is difficult to say who do us the
most injury and work the worst mischief, ene-
mies with the worst intentions, or friends with
the best.”

	“An exacting temper is one against which to
guard both one’s own heart and the nature of
those who are under our control and influence.
To give and to allow, to suffer and to bear are
graces more to the purpose of a noble life than
c[-]ld, exacting selfishness, which must have, let
who will go without; which will not yield, let
who will break. It is a disastrous quality
wherewith to go through the world; for it re-
c[-]ives as much pain as it inflicts, and creates
the discomfort it deprecates.”


Princess Louise is said not to be the timid
dainty dame that princesses of the blood are
said to be. She has steered a canoe through
some of the roughest shallows of the Resti-
gouche, and has climbed perilous peaks at
dawn to make sunrise sketches. While in
Canada, she frequently returned from a ride or
drive at an unexpected hour, and, not finding
the groom at his post, rolled up her sleeves and
groomed the pony herself.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO A FRIEND.

	The world can never give thee to my arms,
	Nor from my heart thy image tear;
	It rests secure 'mid life's alarms,
	A shrine, and sacred image there.
	No human sounding lines can tell
	The secrets of that sunless well,
	Across the crowd our glances meet,
	With laughing lip, no long drawn sighs,
	But in our inmost souls we read,
	"The sad embrace of pining eyes,"
	Naming us kindred, fond and dear,
	In some past time, in some lost sphere.
					ELIZABETH LISLE SAXON.


GOOD-BYE.

Good-bye, good-bye, it is the sweetest blessing
	That falls from mortal lips on mortal ear,
The weakness of our human love confessing,
	The promise that a love more strong is near—
		May God be with you !

Why do we say it when the tears are starting?
	Why must a word so sweet bring only pain?
Our love seems all-sufficient till the parting,
	And then we feel it impotent and vain—
		May God be with you !

Oh, may He guide, and bless, and keep you ever,
	He who is strong to battle with your foes;
Whoever fails, His love can fail you never,
	And all you need He in His wisdom knows—
		May God be with you !

Better than earthly presence, e'en the dearest,
	Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
For in the loneliest moments God is nearest,
	And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring,
		If God be with us.

Good-bye, good.bye, with latest breath we say it,
	A legacy of hope, and faith, and love;
Parting must come, we cannot long delay it,
	But, one in Him, we hope to meet above,
		If God be with us.

Good-bye—'tis all we have for oue another;
	Our love, more strong than death, is helpless still,
For none can take the burden from h[-]s brother,
	Or shield, except by prayer, from any ill—
		May God be with you!
								—Selected.


[Column 1]
SUGGESTIONS.

	In the word of wisdom, revealed to the
Prophet Joseph Smith, Feb. 27th, 1833, there
is a deep mine of wealth as yet only partially
explored, even by the Latter-day Saints, for
whose especial good it was given. Many beau-
tiful truths yet remain to be discoursed by
those who meditate upon this very comprehen-
sive revelation and seek for the same spirit by
which it was given, for truly "none can com-
prehend the things of God, but by the Spirit of
God."
	In that day the Lord said this revelation
was "to be sent greeting, not by commandment,
or constraint, but by the word of wisdom, 
showing forth the order and will of God in the
temporal salvation of all Saints in the last
days. Given for a principle, with a promise
adapted to the capacity of the weak and the
weakest of all Saints, who are or can be called
Saints; but at the general conference held Oct.,
1885, Apostle H. J. Grant, one of the mouth
pieces of the Lord, to whom He has promised
to give line upon line, and precept upon pre-
cept for the benefit of His children, as they
may require from day to day, said, "The word
of wisdom is adapted to all, and it comes to us
now by commandment, and is therefore obliga-
tory upon all to practice the same in the spirit
in which it was given."
	God designed man to live long upon the
earth in health and strength, with power to
labor and accomplish all He required of him;

[Column 2]
He designed him to live to the age of a tree,
not dragging out a miserable existence, but full
of life and vitality; but such a state is impos-
sible according to the systems of living adopted
by man, which tend to degenerate, but the word
of wisdom is full of the principles of regenera-
tion, and if observed, will gradually bring us
back to our normal condition as enjoyed by
the ancients, who could number their days by
the hundreds, not being cut off untimely by
disease, but yielding to old age because death
was pronounced upon them within a thousand
years, or a day of the Lord's time. 
	After defining the various uses to which the
products of the earth are to be put for the bene-
fit of man, the Lord expressly forbids the use
of "strong drink," but says, "It is for the
WASHING OF YOUR BODIES" Now, I think
the full import of this sentence is better under-
stood by the Saints in general as it was by  my-
self a few years ago. Though I had read the
revelation from childhood, and had avoided
the use of tea, coffee, and, to a certain extent,
other forbidden articles, still for many years I
was in a low, debilitated state of health, a
victim to a species of muscular rheumatism
of the spine, and other complications, which 
made life a weary burden, which, but for a
mighty faith in God, and an irrepressible hope,
I would have gladly yielded up as a cross too
heavy to bear. Being impressed with the
necessity of cleanliness, I strictly observed its
rules, as far as possible, though the bath was
my constant terror, in consequence of the ex-
cessive pain, fatigue and languor it occasioned,
also for the painful stiffness which invariably
followed, though using, as I thought, the ut-
most caution. One of our lady physicians,
who firmly believes that science and true religion
always agree, advised the free use of alcohol
over the entire surface of the body after each
ablution, referring me to this item contained
in the word of wisdom. I took the advice
of the Great Physician, revealed anew to me
individually—through His daughter, herself a
disciple of the divine art of healing, and soon
discerned that the bath, instead of being a
means of torture, became a source of pleasure
as well as profit. From that time I gradually
regained lost power, and feel that I have found
at least one of the hidden treasures, and am 
beginning to realize the promise, "That all
Saints who remember to keep and do these 
sayings, walking in obedience to the command-
ments, shall run and not be weary, shall walk 
and not faint."
	I have also learned through experience that
children suffering from any form of lung com-
plaint, or the weakness and debility attending
summer complaints, are greatly benefitted by 
being well rubbed with liquor. More than fifty
years ago the Lord again revealed—the first
time as revealed in the Apostle James, 5th
chapter, 14th verse, and again through His
Latter-day Prophet—the virtue of anointing
the sick with oil. This principle was not ac-
cepted at that time in the medical world, but
has since become universally acknowledged of
the utmost value in all fevers, though as yet
but few believe that "the effectual fervent
prayer of a righteous man availeth much."
The world may reject the fact of an open
channel of communication between the Creator
and His children, and particularly concerning
temporal matters, but this can be nothing less
than an insult to the Fountain of all intelli-
gence, who is the same yesterday, to-day and
forever. His power has not diminished, but
the lack of faith compelled Him to withdraw
His revelations from the children of men, but
He has again spoken from the heavens, He is
still the giver of every good and perfect gift,
and the day is near at hand when every knee
must bow and every tongue confess the Lord,
and acknowledge His hand in all things.
						SUN FLOWER.


FAIR AT GLENWOOD. 

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	At Richfield, on the 22nd and 23rd of Sep-
tember, we held our Annual Stake Fair for the
Primary Associations of Sevier County; the
Young Ladies also held theirs with us this year,
which was pronounced a great success. A
pleasant feature of the fair was the work-shop,
where children from six to twelve years, worked
at different work, some sewing, carding wool,
spinning, knitting, braiding straw, carpentering,
etc. It is really surprising to note the advance-
ment the Primary children are making, both
temporal and spiritual, and we feel to thank
God and Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith for the
organization.
	The articles that were contributed are too
numerous to mention; the hand work, baking,
and some very ingenious articles made by the
boys, were really excellent, reflecting great
credit on all. The Young Ladies’ tables were
not so well filled, it being their first fair, yet
the Young Ladies of Glenwood had their table
well-supplied both in fancy work and hand
sewing, for which they certainly deserve much
praise; there were also articles from other wards,
which showed great taste and patience. We
hope the Young Ladies will try again. 
								H.
Glenwood, Sept. 30, 1887.


HOW TO STRENGTHEN THE
				MEMORY

	Thurlow Weed has given a most interesting
account of the method adopted by himself for
strengthening his memory.
	"When a young man," says Mr. Weed, "I
had to adopt a regular method for strengthen-
ing my memory, and I hit on one that was very
effective. I got married in 1818, when I was
working in Albany as a journeyman printer.
In a few months I went into business, establish-
ing a newspaper for myself, and some of my
friends thought I would succeed in politics,
probably because I impressed my views strongly
on those about me. But I saw at once that I
had a fatal weakness which I thought would
prevent it. My memory was a seive; I could
remember nothing. Dates, names, appoint-
ments, faces, everything, escaped me. I said
to my wife, "Catherine, I shall never make a
successful politician. For I cannot remember,
and that is a prime necessity of politicians. A
politician who sees a man once should remem-
bes him forever.' My wife told me I must train
my memory. So when I came home that night
I sat down alone, and spent fifteen minutes try-
ing silently to recall with accuracy the princi-
pal events of the day.  I could remember but
little at first; now I remember that I could not
then recall what I had for breakfast. After a
few days' practice I found I could recall more.
Events came back to me more minutely, more
accurately, and more vividly than at first.
After a fortnight or so of this, Catherine said,
'Why don't you relate to me the events of the
day, instead of recalling them to yourself? It
would be interesting, and my interest in it
would be a stimulus to you.' Having a great
respect for my wife's opinion, I began a habit
of oral confession, as it were, which was con-
tinued for almost fifty years. Every night,
the last thing before retiring, I told her every-
thing I could remember that had happened to
me, or about me during the day. I generally
recalled the very dishes I had had for breakfast,
dinner, and tea; the people I had seen and what
they had said; the editorials I had written for
my paper, giving her brief extracts of them;
I mentioned all the letters I had sent or re-
ceived. and the very language used, as nearly
as possible, when I had walked or ridden.
told her everything that had come within m


observation. I found I could say my lessons
better and better every year, and instead of
the practice growing irksome, it became a
pleasure to go over again the events of the day.
I am indebted to this discipline for a memory
of somewhat unusual tenacity,and I recommend
the practice to all who wish to store up facts,
or expect to have much to do with influencing
men."
	Scholars, scientists, and others engaged in
active intellectual pursuits, realize how neces-
sary to success is a good memory; and nearly
every person, of whatever mental calibre, from
experience organized into instinct, remembers
the hard facts connected with the daily routine
of work; but how few persons take the trouble
to cultivate the memory as a fine art. The
number of people who forget events, dates, and
names is astonishing. These excuse themselves
by saying, “I did not expect to have occasion
to remember.” The pleasures of memory are
a myth to them, and everything profitless that
will not be required for actual use to-day or to-
morrow. It is from this class that we recruit-
that vast army of people whose memories
though confessedly defective and untrained in
historical and literary matter, have always per-
fect recollections of damaging incidents and
facts concerning a friend's misfortunes or short
comings. In repeating a story about A, B, or
C, they resent as an insult the suggestion of
possible inaccuracies and crudeness.
	“Oh, no! I remember perfectly all about it,”
when, in fact, they remember nothing but a few
confused fragments, out of which they recon-
struct an entirely new series of facts and inci-
dents. The most important point in strengthen-
ing the memory is not that incidents and occur-
rences of minor consequence may be carried in
the mind for years; because the memory, like a
storehouse, can easily be overcrowded with
mental rubbish, but that the pith of one's daily
experience and learning may be impressed upon
the brain and become part of its structure. In
this way only can one add to substantial knowl-
edge day by day, and lay the foundation for
ready understanding, keen perception, acute
judgment, and quick wit.
	Said a lawyer friend: “I make it a point
never to remember a word of what I said in
any particular case; what I remember are the
facts, the mental research, the emotions, facul-
ties, feelings called into play by that case. and
from these recollections, which are the meat
within the shell, I am able to argue more and
more forcibly each time in similar cases.”
	This faculty for discarding the chaff and re-
taining the wheat of experience is to be ac-
quired only by persistent education and train-
ing of the memory to seize upon and appropri-
ate the substance of events and incidents and
not the verbiage.
	Begin in the school-room by educating
children to repeat, not the words, but the sub-
stance contained in the lesson of the text-book;
and the habits of thought and memory (and
not parrot-like utterance) will very probably
become fixed for a life-time.
						—Dress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


MARGARET FULLER.

	The following anecdote of Margaret Fuller,
which we believe has not before been printed,
comes from  correspondent of the Critic, in
Boston:
	“One evening Miss Fuller, with a young
friend, took a suburban train to attend a small
social gathering. She had dressed with unusu-
al care, the finishing touch being a bunch of
beautiful hot-house flowers, which she wore in
her corsage. When the conductor came into
the car to collect the fares Margaret suddenly
remembered that her pocket-book was in the
dress she had left at home. Her companion


was in the same plight as herself and there
was nothing to be done but to explain matters
to the conductor, That official proved obdur-
ate, however; the ladies were both strangers
to him, and their excuse was hackneyed and
transparent; he would be obliged to leave them
at the next way-station. Snatching the bouquet
from beneath her cloak, Margaret rose to her
feet with queen like dignity and exclaimed:
'Is there no one in this car who will purchase
these flowers?’ A gentleman instantly came
forward and paid the fares of the two ladies,
but, it is needless to say refused to take the
bouquet. The card which Margaret exchanged
with him, however, he keeps to this day, and
the incident was the beginning of a pleasant
acquaintance between them.”


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Emily Faithful, writing on the coming
conference to consider the industrial position of
women, urges that three points must be in-
sisted upon:—First  The need of definite
training for girls. Second. The best work,
at fair market price must be given. Third.
Social prejudices must be abandoned, and
ladies must be encouraged to go into business.

	“I wonder what my great-grandfather
would say to me if he could come back to
earth,” said a young lady lawyer to a news-
paper reporter recently. “He was so angry
with my grandmother when he discovered that
she had gone beyond the four fundamental
rules in arithmetic, that he kept her shut up
for a week on a diet of bread and water, and
commanded her to let all books alone forever,
except the Bible. He thought it a disgrace,
poor man, that a daughter of his should be
willing to pursue such masculine studies, and
when she confessed that she liked to do sums
in the Rule of Three, he felt justified in resort-
ing to severe measures to check such unnatural
propensities. If he could see two of his great-
granddaughters practicing medicine and one
aspiring to law, he would think that grand-
mother’s love of study had broken out in a
worse form in this generation. What ghostly
flagellations he would bestow!” and she
laughed, shrugging her shoulders.

	According to Prof. Brinton, of the Academy
of Natural science, many important traces of
early man are to be discovered in the Mis-
sissippi Valley. Near St. Paul begins the modi-
fied glacial drift of an intermediate glacial
period. Fifteen feet below the surface in it are
found stone implements and remains of work-
shops. In Patagonia remains of fires, tools,
and implements of bone are found. These
things indicate a somewhat advanced stage of
civilization and were left by men who lived
here before the horse was extinct. From these
things it is inferred that a race, with race types
and characteristics, existed here as early, if
not earlier, than elsewhere on the globe. The
characteristics of the American race is color
ranging from copper to white; stiff hair and
little of it; foreheads retreating, compressed at
the sides, and low, eyes straight, noses dissimilar,
mouths large, chin round, small and regular,
expression hard and unpleasant. The sexes
are much alike in appearance, when they do
not wear garments fashioned for the purpose of
distinguishing them. The higher the develop-
ment of man, the more pronounced is the dis-
tinction between the sexes.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Aug. 30, 1887, as follows:
	Kate W. Eubank, Rutherford, Cal., Com-
bined Trunk and Bureau.
	Clementina J. M. Hayna, St. Louis, Mo.,
Furnace.
	Mary Jory, Salem, Ore., Pie-holder.


Amelia H. Lindsay, Pittsburg, Pa., Rotary
Engine.
	Nannie M. Showman, Newark, O., Combined 
Hair-curler and Crimper.	
	Mary S. Snow, Sacramento, Cal., Umbrella
or Parasol.

	Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending September 20, 1887, as fol-
lows:
	Anna E. Barber, Brodhead, Wis., Fruit-pre-
server.
	Caroline Haycock, Baltimore, Md., Cough
Remedy.
	Alice E. Mendenhall, Nisolia. Ky., Skim-,
ming Device for Milk-can.
	Julia Reinhardt, New York, N. Y., Skirt-
lining.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 806. SALT LAKE CITY.
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In 
ant’s Shoes.	
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre 

For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. l and 2,	-	25c.	per	copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"
POEMS by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	- 	 	$1.00	"
	“	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco,- 	1.50		"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 16			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1887.		No. 11.


FEAR NOT, ZION.

Fear not, Zion ! countless hosts
	Help thy cause behind the vail;
Zion's friends are uppermost,
	Zion's Founder will not fail;
God His purpose will fullfill,
God is Zion’s refuge still.

Fear not, Zion ! steadfast be;
	Yet a little while endure;
Wouldst thou triumph and be free
	Let thine aims be high and pure,
	"Love of righteousness" must dwell
In the hearts of Israel.

Fear not, Zion!  watch and pray—
	In the midst of cares and strife—
While ye toil, as best ye may,
	For the needs of mortal life-
Watch! "for all who run may read"—
That “the end' is near indeed. 

What if woes beset the just,
	Thick as sparks that upward fly? 
Fear not, Zion! put thy trust
	Aiways in the Lord, Most High;
Saved from many a grief and snare,
All who cast on God their care.

Powers of darkness needs must rage;
	Dire "offenses" try the soul;
Fierce the warfare all must wage,
	Who would reach salvation's goal—
Rough "the way," but who can sum, 
All their bliss who overcome?
	
Fear not, Zion ! onward press,
	 Matchless thy Redeemer’s power;
Weak the foes of righteousness—
	Frail as e’en a fading flower;
Seem they now a mighty host?
‘Tis but human strength they boast.

Fear not, Zion ! Lo, the dawn
	Soon shall bid the shadows flee;
Tribulation leadeth on
	To immortal victory;
Fear not, Zion ! come what will,
God will guide His people still.
				EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


MATER DOLOROSA.
		(MOURNING, MOTHER).

Because of little low-laid heads all crowned
		With golden hair,
Forever more all fair young brows to me
		A halo wear:
I kiss them reverently—alas!  I know
 		The stains I bear.

Because of dear, but close-shut holy eyes
		Of heaven's own blue,
All little, eyes do fill my own with tears,
		Whate’er their hue;
And motherly I gaze their innocent
		Clear depths into.

Because of little pallid lips that once
		My name did call,
No childish voice, in vain appeal, upon
		My ear doth fall.
I count it all my joy their joys to share,
		And sorrows small.	

Because of little dimpled cherished hands,
		Which folded lie,
All little hands henceforth to me do have
		A pleading cry;
   clasp them as they were small wandering birds
		Lured home to fly.


Because of little death-cold feet, for earth's
		Rough roads unmeet,
I'd journey leagues to save from sin or harm
		Such little feet;
And count the lowliest service done for them
		So sacred—sweet!
							MARY K. FIELD.


TRAINING CHILDREN.

	"The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that
winneth souls is wise."—PROVERBS, xii, 30.

	Many reflections pass through my mind with
regard to our youths, who are growing up in
Zion.  I can see that great responsibilities rest
upon parents in the way they train their child-
ren, from the time they can understand a look
or a word. Their mind from birth may be
compared to a sheet of white paper, susceptible
to impressions made, good or evil.
	As I understand, this instruction to be made
upon the child’s mind by the parent, is obedi-
ence to their commands. The imperative “no,”
should be given to its wrong acts, and the ac-
quiescive “yes,” to its right ones.  A frown
should rest upon the countenance of the parent
to show it is in the wrong, and a smile to show
approbation. To you young mothers, let me
say this is a very easy way to govern your
children, without hard words or blows, and
never threaten to punish unless you put that
into execution, and then not in anger, or for
slight cause, but with calm and decisive words,
in reason, showing the wrong. Many a child is
ruined by wrong tuition, and it is high time
that we understand true government, first to
govern ourselves.  Of all people we should
practice that which will result to benificent ends.
The child should be taught not to destroy things.
This evil is a growing-propensity in our child-
ren; teach them the use and value of everything;
when they begin to cry for things that they
should not break to pieces, cross them in their
temper, and show them your superior judgment;
teach them to be clean in their habits, and this
will grow with their growth, and make you a
great deal less trouble.
	And, dear sisters, never counteract the com-
mands of your husbands to your children, but
teach them to obey and respect him and his
word. What I have suggested here can begin
 to be taught to your child before it can walk or
talk.  When they are old enough to work
teach them industrious habits; keep the body
well balanced with the mind; activity brings
health, strength and wealth; teach them order;
this will make labor easy, and lay a foundation
to build the character upon, and their moral
lives. “Train up a child in the way it should
go, and when it is old it will not depart from
it.”
	Let us not form these vague ideas that our
children cannot accomplish what we have done
before them, and have surmounted, barriers
that will fall in their way. While they are
full of life and vigor, labor will strengthen
their more noble instincts and their minds to be
led to fill a life of usefulness, and not idleness,
that leads to crime and misuse of time.  What
a pleasing sensation fills our minds when we
enter a house where there is union and a well
disciplined family, each doing their part, and
all striving to make one another happy.
	Here is where our heaven is to begin, in the
family circle.  If we see this order of things at
our neighbor’s, it only gratifies us for a short

[Column 2]
time if we have it not in our own. Then let
us all strive together to have happy homes,
lovely and obedient children, not be selfish,
teach them to be humane and generous, to take
every burden off the shoulders of the aged and
infirm. And you young boys from ten to four-
teen years of age, four or five get together
every tenth day and clean out all those obnox-
ious burdocks and weeds in the streets, pile
them in the middle of the street and burn
them up. You can pay tithing that way, or
poll tax; and, oh, what a satisfaction it would
be to see our streets made clean and tidy, and
poor widows’ gardens cleaned up, and your
own.
	If we will give attention to all these things,
soon, very soon “Zion will become the joy of
the whole earth,” and the fir tree and the box-
wood will be brought up to beautify the home
of the Saints.
	Please read in Societies.
					MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Oct. 16, 1887.


﻿MORALITY.

	It is generally conceded to those who have
made the subject a study, that the nature of 
man is made of three distinct parts viz.: the 
physical, the intellectual, and the moral.  The 
physical constitutes the material part of man's
nature, and the intellectual is made manifest
through the operations of the mind.  It is to 
the development of these two that much time,
money, and thought are devoted. We hear a 
great deal said, from time to time, about edu-
cation. The little boy is told, that if he will
study hard, while young to gain an education,
the chances are, that, at some future day, he
will be a great man.  He is told that if he
study hard enough he will; probably, fill the
position of president of the United States.
	The little girls, too, are shown no less glit-
tering pictures of future advantages that await
them; on conditions that they are diligent in
acquiring a knowledge of a prescribed number
of branches taught in school.  Not only are 
parents anxious that their little ones grow up 
with all the scholastic advantages which they
can afford to give them, but it is with equal solici-
tude that they watch with a jealous care that
no accident befall them, or anything from in-
fancy up to maturity, happen to them which
is liable to injure or mar, in the least, the
physical growth and perfection of their chil-
dren.  It is, undoubtedly, a source of intense
pleasure for parents to contemplate the beau-
tiful and well formed bodies of their offspring
and to see the fruits of their cultivated minds
made manifest.  This, in a measure rewards
them for all their watchfulness and trouble.
All these provisions for the development of the
rising generation, both mentally and physical-
ly are very good and as they should be, but
there is still another education which should 
receive even more attention than these named
and without which, an education, in the gener-
al sense of the term, often becomes a curse in-
stead of a blessing to its possessor. This educa-
tion consists in the culture and development of
the third nature of man known as morality
and which directs the other two in a right
course.  It is that course of action which con-
science dictates as the right course.  It is
that which would guides one to do his duty to
God, to his fellow beings, to himself, and to
the lower animals.  It is that course of ac-


tion which conscience dictates as right
and which has been expressed in the words, “Do
unto others as you would have them do unto
you.”
	We are all aware that the persons who are
capable of doing the greatest amount of injury
or the darkest crimes, in the home, the village,
the state or the government, have been edu-
cated, so far as intellectual culture is concerned;
but search their private records and they have
been found almost invariably, to be persons of 
little or no moral culture. To neglect this
branch of education of a child, is to sew the
seeds of crime and vice, and to allow them to
take their lessons, in morality, from vicious as-
sociates upon the street corners and disrepu-
table places is equally as bad. As a people, we
believe that our future glory, will, in a great
measure, depend on our children, and it is
sad neglect of a duty when we allow their
moral natures to become corrupted.  It should
be the object of parents and children, to de-
velop in the highest degree, morality; to seek
every means to promote its growth, and en-
deavor just as earnestly for thier education in
this as they do to develop the physical and intel-
lectual nature.  And as the moral is the con-
trolling power over the other two, and that
which is to decide the entire character; it is im-
perative, in order to make a good member of
society, that the utmost care and attention be
given to moral culture, and its most perfect de-
velopment.			L.A. SCHOFIELD.
	Nephi.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMEN OF INDIA.
			MOHAMMEDANS.
	In India all Mohammedan women are “pur-
dah women”—purdah meaning a curtain or
screen. As they say, they “keep purdah."
They live behind the curtain, and their faces
are seen by no man, except the husband, father,
or brothers—not even by the husband’s brothers,
unless they are young boys. They occupy
that portion of the house which is known as
the “zenana”—the place of the women. All
Mohammedan houses are similiarly constructed.
A large building in front, richly furnished, for
the men; behind this an open court with foun-
tains, dwarf palm trees, etc and back of the
court the meagerly furnished zenana.
	The patriarchal system is kept up as with
the Hindoos, the son and grandsons bringing
their wives to their father’s house, and three or
four generations are usually found under one
roof. The women spend all their time in the
zenana. They gossip and smoke, and array
themselves in their fine clothing and jewelry,
and no doubt quarrel a bit sometimes.
	A wife is allowed to dine at her mothers’s
house once a month. If her family is wealthy
she covers herself to the eyes in a large chud-
dah, and is taken to the house in a closed car-
riage, or palanquin. If she is poor, she wraps
the chuddah about her and walks to the house
at midnight, when the streets are empty, re-
turning the next night at the same hour.
	On my first visit to a zenana, early in my
Bombay life, I went with an interpreter, for I
had not learned Hindoostani and could not
understand one word of conversation in that
language. At the first house we found all the
women in one room, and they appeared to be
entertaining a figure which was shrouded in a
white sheet, and was sitting upon a large, white
cushion or mattress, which was spread upon the
floor.
	Upon inquiry, I learned that this ghostly
shrouded figure was a newly made widow, her
husband having died at sea two weeks before.
They said that she must never leave the cushion,
upon the floor for a single moment, until her
period of mourning—four and one-half months
—was past.
[Column 2]
	The windows of the hot room must be kept
tightly closed, and the blinds drawn down, lest
some man in some other house should see her.
If, on the very last day of the four and a half
months, the shadow of a man should fall upon
her, she must commence over again, and sit
four and a half months longer. On this ac-
count, the widow is carefully guarded until her
period of mourning is ended. If the house is
large and she has a mother to wait upon her,
it is easily managed. But if they are poor
and the family all live in one room, as is often
the case, the mourning widow’s lot is a hard
one. They partition off one corner of the
room with matting, make a little pen for her,
and in that close, stuffy place she must stay
four and a half months.
	Formerly Mohammedan girls were married
nearly as young as the Hindoos, but now they
do not marry until they are eleven or twelve
years old.  They say it is too hard to keep
little girl widows sitting so long.
	The women of the house I visited were doing
their utmost to cheer and entertain the widow,
and help her to pass away the time.
	When female relatives came from outside,
there was alwaws a certain amount of wailing
and beating of breasts, but it soon developed
into an afternoon gossip.
	As a rule, a Mussulmani woman is not too
much attached to her husband. She never sees
him until the day of the wedding, and often
does not know whether she is marrying a man
of her own age, or an old gray-headed villain,
who has buried several wives.
	At the next house I visited, I found four
wives of one man—a sheik who had been a
grand man in Zanzibar before coming to Bom-
bav. He first married an Abyssinian woman,
who died while he was at Zanzibar. He saw a
good many English ladies there whom he ad-
mired, and he determined that his second wife
should be white. So he sent to Constantinople
for a Circassian girl. She was pretty, and he
was, so well pleased with her that he soon sent
for another, and again another. At about the
same time the Sultan of Muscat died, leaving a
pretty widow who was also a Circassian or
Georgian, and the old sheik took her for the
fourth wife, making his number complete, as
the koran allows four wives to all faithful fol-
lowers of the prophet, who can support so
many.
	This was a very happy family, the wives
calling themselves sisters. The eldest boy,
when speaking of the family, said: "My father
is well and my four mothers are well.” These
four mothers took very good care of their nine
children, and each seemed equally anxious when
one was ill.
	In the course of time, the old sheik died,
and then it became a serious question how the
widows could keep their mourning period, as
there was no female relative to look after them.
Finally a friend of the family, an Arab lady,
came to the rescue and took them all home to
her own large house, where there was plenty of
room to conceal them. The childrem were al-
lowed to visit them once a day,so their mourn-
ing period was very comfortably passed.
	On a man’s tomb there is a representation of
a pen box, on his wife’s a blank tablet. This
is to show that a woman’s mind is blank, except
as her husband writes upon it. They do grant
a woman a soul, but it is of an inferior kind,
aud there will be a special place prepared for
her, outside her husband’s paradise.
	The dead are buried in a sitting posture, so
that they may the better fight the angel, when
he comes to question them of “the deeds done
in the body." A woman who never marries
is worshipped as a saint, and all her relatives
prostrate themselves before her and kiss her
feet. 
	If a woman is ill, an old "hakim" is con-
sulted. He writes a text from the koran on a
[Column 3]	
slip of paper, and directs her to soak the paper
in a glass of water and take the resulting medi-
cine in divided doses. This she does religiously,
in full confidence that she will be cured.
	In the thirteenth century, a Mohammedan
woman named Rezia ruled all Hindoostan. She
was beautiful and clever, and went about ad-
ministering justice among men, as if she her-
self were, a man. A Turki chief rebelled
against her. There was a severe battle and
Rezia was defeated, but she soon conquered her
conqueror, by marrying him.
	About 1550, Chand Bibi was reigning queen
of Ahmednagar, her husband, the nizam, hav-
ing died before their son was old enough to be
crowned in his stead. During her reign, the
fort of Ahmednagar was besieged and a breach
made in the wall. Chand Bibi led the army in
person, and defended the breach until assistance
came from her brother in Bijapore and Ahmed-
nagar was saved. She wore a vail over her
face, and was known to the troops as “The Lady
of the Vail.” On a high hill near the city,
there stands to-day a beautiful structure known
as “Chand Bibi’s Mahal.” It was built by a
grateful people to perpetuate the memory of a
queen who saved her country. Every one
knows the story of the Emperor Shah Jihan’s
favorite wife, Nur Mahal, or “The Light of
the World,” as she is often called, and the
glorious Taj at Agra, which he built for her
tomb. There it stands on the banks of the
Jumna, as fair and white to-day as when it was
finished, more than two hundred and fifty years
ago. It has been fitly called, “A poem in
marble” Edwin Arnold says of it in “India
Re-visited:” “The crown of the world, the
peerless tomb built for the fair dead body of
Nur Mahal, by her lorn and lover, the Emperor
Shah Jihan In all the world, no queen had
ever such a monument. 		*	*	*	*	
	As you pass beneath the stately portal, in itself
sufficient to commemorate the proudest of
princesses, and as the white cupola of the Taj
rises before the gaze and reveals its beauty,
grace by grace, the mind refuses to criticise
what delights the eye and fills the heart with
reverence for the royal love which could thus
translate itself into alabaster. The moral of
this tomb is written near by: ‘Saith Jesus (on
whom be peace), this world is a bridge; pass
thou over it, but build not upon it. This
world is one hour; give its minutes to thy
prayers; for the rest is unseen.’ ”
	The Begum of Bhopal is the only reigning
Mohammedan woman, at this time. Bhopal is
one of the smaller of the native states, but it
has been so wisely managed that it brings in a
large revenue. During the Sepoy mutiny, the
present begum’s mother ruled the state. She
remained loyal to the British government, and
offered men and money for subduing the re-
bellion.
	The present begum has received two decora-
tions by order of the queen empress—“The
Companion of the Star of India,” and one
other which is conferred upon women only.
			—S. F. Norris in Hearth and Hall.


﻿The Pundita Ramabi has brought out a
second edition of her deeply-interesting book,
“High-Caste Hindu Woman.” Every woman
ought to read it.

	The temperance women of England have
been getting up a jubilee memorial to the
Queen in the shape of a petition that the bar-
rooms be closed on Sunday. It now contains
three-quarters of a million signatures.

	Vittoria Colonna was boried in a small and
obscure church in Rome, now being demolished,
Sant’ Anna dei Falegnami; and the archaeolo-
gists and literary people of that city are anxi-
ously expecting the discovery of her “cypress
wood coffiin, lined with embroidered velvet.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ROMOLA.

			BY A. C. BOWERS

A poet’s vision, clad in the fair guise 
	Of a lily, all in white and gold—
	Hers not the form for passionate arms to fold;
She loves, but loves in such angelic wise
As might some wanderer from the upper skies,
	Who wears, with rosy lips of tenderest curve, 
The starry purity of saintly eyes.
	But if some lofty purpose were to serve,
The fair and delicate figure then would seem
	One who could w lk, with straight unshaken tread.
	The flaming city of the unpardoned dead
(Shown to the Florentine in lurid dream),
	Serene and Scatheleess thro’ the infernal glow—
	Nor touch of fire upon her raiment know.
				—New Orleans Times-Democrat.


TO PATRIARCH L. D. YOUNG. 

		OCTOBER 19TH, 1887. 

Dear Uncle, once again we come, 
	With loving hearts to greet you, 
And find you still in this dear home, 
	Where 'tis so good to meet you. 

How many in the passing year
	Have gone to other places; 
Some honored much, some very dear, 
	Whose names fond memory traces. 

Imprisoned, exiled, sank and died, 
	And thus escaped each jailer,
Our faithful President and guide,
	The valiant, brave John Taylor. 

Your nephew, F. M. Little, too, 
	So kind and so attentive, 
Has also passed to regions new—
	The world held no preventive. 

And, shall I mention your dear boy, 
	Your Brigham?  whose transition
Brings tears, not all of grief, we joy
	That he fulfilled his mission. 

And faithful to each covenant
	He'd made before high heaven,
Was satisfied and well content
	With th' last summons given. 

To-day, last tributes of respeet,
	To one of Zion's numbers—
Long years her leading architect—
	Truman O. Angel slumbers. 

But let me not too long retain
	Your mind on heavy crosses, 
To each of these we count great gain, 
	We only bear the losses. 

And you still live and battle on, 
	With cares both light and weighty, 
While years and years have pass'd and gone, 
	Till yours have numbered eighty. 

How long, how very long to live, 
	And yet you seem so sprightly, 
I often wonder if we give
	Your dates and figures rightly. 

The last of all your mother's sons,
	Her daughters all have left us;
How many, many faithful ones
	Have gone, and thus bereft us!

Why is it that my thoughts will turn
	To those who dwell above us? 
Perhaps because our hearts so yearn
	For those we love—who love us. 

Now, should I pause and try again
	Of sadder things I'm fearful;
And so will lay aside the pen—
	Let's talk of something cheerful. 
								LULA.


﻿D. M. MULOCK CRAIK.

	Mrs. Dinah Maria Mulock Craik who died in
England, on the 13th of October, 1887, was
born at Stoke upon Trent in 1826. Next to
George Eliott as an authoress in modern times
her name must stand. Her books have a very
refined character, taken as a whole. She has
studied human nature and woman's nature
pretty thoroughly. Her books are as popular
in America as in England, but not more so.
Her first work of fiction that attracted atten-
tion, and it is said to be her first attempt at
romance was entitled, “The Ogilvies,” she was
then 23 years of age. The next year she pub-
lished  "Olive;” at the age of 25 “The Head of
the Family;” shortly after “Agatha’s Hus
band.” and from that time on has written vol-
ume after volume. “John Halifax, Gentle-
man” is considered by most people her best
work; though I greatly prefer some others; her
women are generally well drawn and strong
minded,her men weaker and yet, the newspaper
critics, some of them say, she makes women too
submissive and subservient. To me she seems
to have the best ideas of woman, women must
give if they expect to receive, must honor if
they expect to be honored. Miss Mulock’s
“Hannah” is the best argument of the injustice
of the old English law against marriage with
a deceased wife’s sister that I have ever seen
and ought to have as much weight with the
English people and Parliament in the annull-
ing of that law as “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” had
in the United States in abolishing slavery.
	Among literary people Mrs. Craik was a
great favorite though I know very little of her
except from her writings. To me she seems
a woman of wonderful imaginative capacity
in character upright, straight-forward, con-
scientious, appreciative and honest. Well
acquainted with English life in its realty, I
hope some day to see in print a sketch of her
home life written by one who would do her
ample justice—ED.
			THE FUNERAL.
	The funeral of Mrs. Craik, best known as
Miss Mulock, took place in London, Oct. 16th.
Her mortal remains rest in a corner angle of
the Keston churchyard, not far from the grave
of Darwin.
	When the family cortege left the pretty
vine-embowered villa built of red tile, Gothic
style, where she had so long lived with her hus-
band (a partner in Macmillan & Co’s), there
was brilliant sunshine; but when the bier, borne
upon the shoulders of six gentleman friends of
the family, entered the old-fashioned church a
shower of rain gently fell, to be followed by
genial sunshine, when the service—which the
vicar performed—was ended.
	A PICTURESQUE GRAVE.
	The grave presented a picturesque appear-
ance, its sides and bottom being in pure white
chalky soil surrounded with exquisite flowers,
from wreaths sent by order of the Queen and
by Lord Tennyson, and other floral designs
which were sent by relatives and friends, to the
modest gifts of wild flowers from Sunday
School children aud rural neighbors. There
was a large attendance—of some who came to
honor themselves by paying their respect to the
memory of the novelist, poet and essayist, and
of throngs of neighbors who chiefly recognized
in her loss that of a good friend and benevolent
lady whom all the parish had learned to love.
	SOME OF THE MOURNERS.
Among the mourners were the brothers Mac-
millan and their families; John Morley, the
statesman and author; Holman Hunt. R. A.,
and wife; Sir George Grove, the great musical
critic; J. Norman Lockyer, the poet; Henry
Craik, O. B., and family; Frederick Greenwood,
[Column 2]
the journalist, and Mary Anderson, who placed
upon the coffin a basket of exquisite exotics.
I must not forget Mrs. Craik’s adopted daughter,
whose banus were read in church only last
Sunday in the presence of Mrs. Craik. During
a hedge-side walk, years ago, the authoress
found a babe that had been abandoned. Her
innocent smiles and coquettish ways immedi-
ately won the heart of her future mother, who
adopted and reared her.
		HER OWN HYMN.
	The village choir, as the coffin was lowered,
sang a hymn which it was said Miss Mulock
had written, one verse of which I send, as fol-
lows:—
		"Earth to earth and dust to dust.
			Calmly now thy words we say.
		Left behind, we wait in trust 
			For the Resurrection Day.
		Father, in thy gracious keeping
			Leave we now thy servant sleeping."

		HER ILLNESS AND DEATH.
	I learned concerning the circumstances of
her death that Dr Phillips, of Bromley—a
village adjacent to Shortlands, where she lived,
had been in attendance upon Mrs. Craik for
sometime, although her health had not been So
bad as to occasion serious concern to her
friends.
	But there is reason to believe that she her-
self suspected an affection of the heart. About
a quarter to five on Wednesday afternoon last
she was taken suddenly ill in her bedroom and
fell down, to die in a few minutes.
		THE VICAR’S TRIBUTE.
	The vicar, in a brief address, seems to have
well summed up Mrs. Craik’s mental character-
istics when he said:
	“To exquisite charm of style, ingenuity of
plot and original power of humor and pathos
she added a keen insight into the workings of
the human heart aud a quick conception of
high ideas of life and duty.”—Cablegram to the
New York Herald.


Signora Crispi, the wife of the Italian
Minister, is much interested in the education
of her countrywomen. Fully understanding
how useful a friendly intercourse with foreign
ladies would be, she means to establish in Rome
an international Ladies' Club, where women of
all nations can meet. A reading room will be
open and lectures given, and discussions may
be held of the means to establish industrial
schools for women and technical instruction.

	Jennv Lind lives in London in a house
covered with vines and surround-
ed by trees and flowers. She is a confirmed in-
valid, and very rarely sees callers. To all
Americans who knock at her door to pay their
respects, the servant, who has lived with her
for the past thirty years, delivers the message
that "Jenny Lind wishes them to say that she
will never cease to love the American people
with all her heart." She has just had a stroke
of general paralysis, which, however, has left
her brain unimpaired.

	Miss Phebe Couzins has taken the usual oath
of office, and is regularly installed as city mar-
shall of St Louis. She found no difficulty in
obtaining bondsmen for $20,000. The back sal-
ary due her father, of $2,500, has been paid to her.
Miss Couzins has the distinction of being the
first woman to hold this office. It is reported
that Miss Couzins said to President Hayes, just
after his inauguration that it was a pity some
woman lawyer like herself was not the chief
justice who administered the oath to the Presi-
dent. "In that case," gallantly replied "Mr.
Hayes,"I should have kissed, not the book, but
the chief justice."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.

	Published semi-montbly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1887.


AN ADDRESS FROM PRESIDENT
			WOODRUFF

	IN RELATION TO THE MANTI TEMPLE.

			SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 20th, 1887.
To the Presidents of Stakes, Bishops, and the
	Saints generally:

	It is with profound feelings of gratitude and
thanksgiving to our heavenly Father that we an-
nounce to the Latter-day Saints that the Temple
which is being erected at Manti has been so nearly
completed as to be ready for the upholstering, fur-
niture, carpets, etc., which are necessary to put it
in a state of complete preparation for the sacred
labors to be performed therein. This is the third
building of this character which in the kind pro-
vidence of God the Latter-day Saints have been
permitted to erect and finish in these mountains.
The Temple at Salt Lake City is also progressing
in a satisfactory manner, which, when finished,
will be the fourth Temple that has been constructed
by the Saints under the direction of the Almighty
since we came to these valleys.
	How blessed are the people who have had these
glorious privileges granted unto them! Our hearts
swell with inexpressible feelings of thanksgiving
and joy to our Father in heaven that He has per-
mitted His Saints to build these houses. They
now have opportunities to act as Saviors of their
fellowmen, which but few generations of the
children of men have ever enjoyed. The great
work of the restoration of the dead, which will
occupy the time and thought of future generations,
has now begun, never more to end until the earth
is sanctified and the plan of salvation devised in
the eternal worlds for human redemption is fully
consummated. 	
	Our object in addressing you in this circular is
to present to all the members of the Church the
opportunity of contributing, according to their
means and liberality, something towards the fur-
nishing of the Manti Temple. Heretofore the
contributions for that building have been confined
to the Stakes which are numbered in what is
known as  the Manti Temple District.” Before
the Logan Temple was completed an opportunity
was given to the Saints to contribute towards the
purchasing of its furnishings, furniture, etc. They
gladly responded to the call which was made upon
them. We feel that they will, on the present oc-
casion, appreciate the privilege of contributing in
like manner towards the purchasing of suitable
upholstery, carpetings, etc., for the Manti Temple.
The funds of the Superintendent are exhausted,
and contracts are already made for needed articles,
which have to be met at an early date.
	Contributions will  be taken from twenty five
cents upwards, so that those who are the most
limited in means need not be debarred, while those
who are more wealthy, can have the satisfaction
and pleasure of making donations according to
their ability for the completion of this noble edifice.
We would like the Presidents and Bishops to give

[column 2]
﻿every one an opportunity of doing something in
this direction, and the names of all, with the
amounts contributed, should be carefully taken.
	We would like to see the names of every man
woman and child in the Church recorded in the
Archives of the Temple as having contributed
something towards its erection and completion.
	These funds with the donors’ names, can either
be forwarded to the office of the Presiding Bishop
or the Chief Clerk—Brother James Jack, at the
President’s Office.
	It is important that these collections should be
made and remitted as promptly as possible, as the
need for this means is pressing.
					WlLFORD WOODRUFF,
	In behalf of the Council of the Apostles.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
 
	The case now awaiting the decision of the Su-
preme Court of the Territory as to the right of
the United States’ government to appoint a Re-
ceiver to take charge and dispose of property 
belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, is one which every thoughtful person
must consider an important matter.  It would
seem that either "Mormons" have no rights, or
that this suit must seriously affect other churches 
as regards property investments.  If this law is to 
be applied to other religious denominations, then
Congress will have work on hand for the future—
home-rule work that will require the utmost wisdom
to adjust, and that never can be done amicably
unless the religious bodies become devoid of both
conscience and rights.  To intefere with property 
which has been a free-offering from the people to
the Lord, for the establishing of His work upon
the earth, the building of temples and houses of
worship, where the Latter-day Saints might wor-
ship God according to their own belief, must have
the appearance of a gross injustice, to all who are
able to see and comprehend the circumstances and
conditions.
	The working classes, in all good faith, and with
the zeal that must be apparent to even the ordin-
ary observer, have contributed to this means, that
Congress holds should be put into the hands of a 
receiver appointed by the government for that
purpose.  And why?  Is it unlawful to build tem-
ples,to observe and perform religious rites and cere-
monies in, and in which this people have implicit 
confidence as binding upon them, and necessary 
for their salvation and that of the whole human 
family?  The whole force of the bill passed by
Congress is said to be directed against polygamy
and its practice, and what has that to do with
Church property?  If the men who are so anxious 
to appoint a Receiver, which means to take pos-
session of the property, had worked as diligently
and faithfully as the "Mormons" have to acquire 
it in the midst of a desert, away from the civiliza-
tion of which they boast so much,if they had sub-
dued the land and made it fertile by digging
ditches, canals, and applying every means in their
power to produce such things as would sustain life,
without money to use for such purposes, only hard
work of hand and brain, doubtless they would feel
it was an out and out robbery.
	To take men from their homes, adjudge them
guilty of a crime, because the Law made on pur-
pose has so pronounced it and imprison them, so
that the family is deprived of the regular means
of support, and then fine them heavily as well,
this has been submitted to and borne with the
greatest fortitude, but that is not enough for these
officers of this great and grand government, of 
which the people of the United States have been 
so proud these many years.  O, no, now they want
the means that has been accumulating towards the
work of the Lord, the building of Temples for the
sacred ordinances, and they do it with impunity.
Well may it be said, "Where has freedom, where


has justice fled?” Well may the question be
asked and repeated, “Have the Mormons any
rights at all?” As human beings, as a religious
body of worshiping Christians, as citizens of the
Great Republic, they certainly have; and bye and
by it will be seen, and not long first, either, that
they are as loyal to the government as any other
people, if not more so, and that they honor the
Constitution and the principles of truth and liberty,
and are not afraid or ashamed to defend them.


HE ONLY SLEEPS.

				"God keeps a niche
		In heaven to hold our idols; and albeit
		He brake them to our faces, and denied
		That our close kisses should impair their white.
		I know we shall behold them raised complete,
		The dust swept from their beauty,—glorified."

	The little golden head with its fair brow, the
spiritual, refined face, the tender blue eyes, the
perfect form of our little Percival, these lie in the
tomb, but the sweet spirit that animated the fea-
tures, the intelligence that beamed from his coun-
tenance, the affection that made him so dear, so
tenderly beloved, these are living still in realms of
brightness and glory, where there is no more
sorrow, nor pain, nor death, and all tears are wiped
away.  Dear little Percival, his face all sunshine,
glowing with health, was cut down like a flower;
just when the early frost was nipping the tenderest
buds of the garden, this little fellow, so carefully
nurtured and watched, was cut off by the Reaper
Death almost without warning; taken from his
earthly home, where he was the pride and joy, and
transplanted to a higher and better one.

	"Eye hath not seen it, my gentle boy?
	Ear hath not heard its deep songs of joy;
	Dreams cannot picture a world so fair—
	Sorrow and death cannot enter there;
	Time doth not breathe on its fadeless bloom,
	For beyond the clouds and beyond the tomb,—
				It is there, it is there, my child."

	The death of Percival Woods falls very heavily 
upon his parents, as he was the only remaining
son, and a remarkably bright boy, gifted in many
respects beyond his years, exceptionally affection-
ate and tender-hearted, and the life of the house-
hold, just like a beam of golden sunshine.  He
was taken with sore throat Sunday evening, the
16th, and Monday morning it was pronounced to
be diphtheria; hopes, however, were entertained
of his recovery, but on Thursday membranous
croup set in, and he died at half-past two p.m.
His father, Major W. W. Woods was in Idaho on
business, and though he was telegraphed for as 
soon as danger was apprehended, did not arrive
until Saturday evening, in consequence of the
distance from telegraph lines and railroads.
	Percival Woods was the son of Major W. W.
and Mrs. M. C. Woods, and was born in this city,
April 23rd, 1878, and died October 20th, 1887,
aged nine years, five months and twenty-seven
days. The most intense symyathy was manifested
by the relatives and friends of the family, and 
floral offerings in almost every design were sent
to the house during the interval between the death
and burial.  The remains were taken from the
house shortly after the death, and the casket and
box carefully closed were placed in a vault await-
ing the coming of the father.  The arrival of the
father to his lonely home on Saturday night was
the occasion of a scene of sorrow too deep for any
words to portray.  The mother bore up bravely 
during all this severe strain upon her, though for
months she had been suffering from a spinal affec-
tion, caused by an accident last April.
	The funeral services were held at the City
Cemetery, on Sunday morning, October 23rd, at 
nine o'clock a.m. A large number of relatives
and friends assembled at the graveyard, most of
them remaining in their carriages during the ser-
vices. The coffin, covered with the most exquisite


flowers, was lowered into the new-made grave be-
side the little sister and brother who had gone
before, and the singers, Prof. Beesley, Judge Geo
D. Pyper, Miss Thomas and Miss Beesley, sung
in pathetic voice the beautiful hymn,
			“Rest on the hillside, rest."
	The Rev. Mr. Thrall read from the New Testa-
ment some of the choicest selections of the words
of our Savior, and made brief comments, after
which Bishop Whitney (who is a relative of the
bereaved mother) spoke for a short time. Coun-
selor D. H. Wells dedicated the grave, and offered
a solemn and touching prayer. Mr. Thrall made
brief closing remarks, and earth was heaped upon
the little one laid away, but as the pillow of
flowers which lies at his head says, “He only
sleeps,” for the sorrowing father and mother there
is consolation only in the words of our Savior and
the healing efficacy of time. Those old-fashioned
lines, that are always new to the sorely tried, came
to my mind on that occasion:
	“Come, ye disconsolate, where’er ye languish,
		Come, at the shrine of God fervently kneel;
	Here bring your wounded hearts, here tell your anguish,
		Earth hath no sorrow that heaven cannot heal."

	There is comfort for the bereaved parents when
the precious little ones are taken in their purity
and innocence, and I have no doubt whatever
that there is a shining escort to go with them; they
do not go out into the darkness alone; to them
there is no “dark valley or shadow of death.” The
last words uttered by the little sufferer were,
"Good bye, mama, good bye;” then one final strug-
gle for breath and all was over.
		“Weep not for those whom the vail of the tomb
		In life's happy morning hid from our eyes, 
		Ere sin threw a blight o’er the spirit’s young bloom,
		Or earth had profaned what was born for the skies."
	Little Percival was looking forward with intense
pleasure to the birthday of his Grandpa Wells, on
which occasion each of the grandchildren were to
represent a flower, the whole to form a Bouquet of
Beauty; Percival was to be a Chrysanthemum, and
was reciting his verse the morning before he died,
he had himself composed two lines. But he has
joined a still larger gathering of little ones in the
bright mansions above, where there will be no
more pain, and death and sorrow cannot enter
there forevermore.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.

	Sister Zina D. H. Young left the city by the D.
and R. G. train, October 18th, for the South
and arrived at Price at 6 p.m., where Bishop
Frantzen met her at the depot, and at 7 o'clock the
same evening she attended a meeting of the Re-
lief Society in the ward meeting house.  The
house was well filled.
	The next morning drove over to Huntington,
and journeyed on to Ferron, where a meeting of the 
sisters was held, and the Y. L. M. I. A. was reor-
ganized.
	On the morning of the 20th the conference of 
the Relief Society was held at Ferron, Mrs. Annie
U. Larsen, President of Emery Stake R. S., presid-
ing.  We will probably receive the minutes of the
conference from the Secretary.  On the 21st inst,
at 10 a. m., the Y. L. conference. and at 3 p. m. the
Primary conference was held, and in connection
with it a Fair, the articles mostly made by the
children, though the young ladies had contributed
some.  There were some nice hair flowers,	
crochet-work, perforated card work, pincushions
and other fancy work, besides handsome patch-
work quilts, and several kinds of vegetables raised 
by the little boys.   The next meeting was at
Muddy, at 7 o'clock p.m, and Sisters Young and
Larsen assisted the brethren in reorganizing the 
Relief Society at that place.
	Went to Molen next day, where meeting was
held at one o'clock.   A very full meeting and a


small Primary Fair, with a creditable display from
the children.
	Meeting was held the same evening at Orange-
ville, and Sisters Young and Larsen assisted the
Bishop in reorganizing the Young Ladies’ Asso-
ciation.	
	At Huntington Sister Young spent the 23rd.
Visited the Sabbath School and spoke to the
children. At seven o’clock the same evening the
Relief Society held a meeting. Sister Young
found at Huntington Sister Lucy Morley Allen,
the daughter of Patriarch Isaac Morley; she was
baptized November, 1830, on the same day as
Sister Stanton, who died recently.
	On Monday, the 24th, Sister Young and six of
the sisters who had been visiting the Stake in
company with her, accompanied her as far as
Price. Sister Young was reliably informed that
in all Emery Stake there was but one saloon, and
that was at the railroad station at Price, and yet
there are in that county something over 26,000 in-
habitants.
	During her visit, Sister Young met with a num-
ber of old acquaintances, and some who were sisk
and afflicted, and sought to administer comfort
and consolation. On the 25th, Stster Young
turned her face homeward, bidding good-bye to
the good sisters and people of Emery Co. She
stopped a day or two at Springville, then to
Provo, where she had the pleasure of attending
the lecture of Elder John Nicholson to the youth
of Zion. She speaks highly of the lecture, and
believes it will do great good to the young people.


PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF
	
	DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING DISCOURSE ON
		SUNDAY, OCT. 9, 1885, IN THE TABERNACLE,
		SALT LAKE CITY:

	My brethren and sisters and friends: By way
of introduction I desire to say that I feel to thank
God and all my friends for the blessing I enjoy at
this time—for the privilege, once more, of enter-
ing this Tabernacle and beholding the faces of the
Latter-day Saints. And I feel a good deal as
Mark Antony did when he went to bury Cæsar.
"I come to bury Cæsar," said he, "not to praise
him." I come to see the Latter day Saints, but
not to preach to them. You have plenty of Apos-
tles and Elders to preach the word of the Lord
unto you. But I have long desired to again enter
this Tabernacle of the Lord and see the Latter-
day Saints. It has been some three years, I think,
since I have met with the Saints of God in this
house; and I will tell you how I felt about coming
to Conference. I felt that it would not be doing
our great and mighty nation any harm—a nation of
sixty millions of people—for two or three old men,
seventy-five or eighty years of age, to come into
this Tabernacle and look at the Latter-day Saints
and at the faces of their wives and children. I
do not know that I have a wife or child here. If
I have they will be able to see how old I have
grown since we last met. Some of us have tried
to keep the law to such an extent that we have al-
most forgotten how our wives and children look. I
feel, however, to say, God bless the Marshal and
officers of the government as far as they can exer-
cise mercy, charity and humanity toward the Lat-
ter-day Saints in fulfilling their duty as officers of
the government. I feel thankful to day for this
privilege, and I feel at peace with all mankind. I
am at peace with all my friends. As to my enemies,
I do not know that I have any. If I have, I hope
that we may be at peace upon the principles of
the Gospel of Christ, of righteousness and of
truth.
	Now, with regard to preaching to you, my
brethren and sisters, that is a subject I have
thought very little about. I have preached this
Gospel for some fifty-four years, and have learned
by experience a great while ago that it is no use
			[column 2]
for an Elder in Israel to decide in his mind what
he is going to say to the Saints of God. This is
the way I feel to-day. And I will say this, that
there are times in a man's life when he cannot help
reflecting upon the past. That is my condition to-
day. Since I have entered this Tabernacle, and
looked upon this congregation, my mind has re-
verted to my life from the time I became a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and this engenders in my bosom some very
solemn reflections. Fifty-four years ago this last
spring I traveled a thousand miles with the
Prophet Joseph, and his brother Hyrum, Brothers
Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, George A.
Smith, and a great many other men—some 205 in
all—mostly Elders in Israel—for the redemption
of our brethren—to assist them in the midst of
persecution. Our Prophets and Patriarchs, many
of them, have passed away. They are on the
other side of the vail. Since we came into these
valleys forty years ago the twenty-fourth of last
July—I drove President Young into this valley in
my carriage, and he was sick at the time—eleven
of the Apostles have passed away. They are in
the spirit world mingling with the Gods, where
they can plead for their brethren. These are re-
flections that rest upon my mind as I occupy this
stand where I have met day after day and year
after year with these noble men. President John
Taylor, who was our last President and Apostle,
has also taken his departure. The last time I was
in this house I met here with him. His work is
finished. He has gone into the spirit world, where
we shall all go very soon. Sometimes, in my re-
flections, I feel somewhat lonesome when I think
these matters over. I feel as if I had lived two
or three generations since the days of Kirtland
and Nauvoo, or since the establishment of this
Church and Kingdom with which I have been as-
sociated for so many years. I realize myself that
I shall not dwell a great while upon the earth. I
do not expect to dwell a great while longer with
the Latter-day Saints. I have lived to the age of
four score years, and when I contemplate the
multitude that has passed away since we entered
these valleys of the mountains, I can only expect
to take my turn with the rest. But I will say this,
I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ; I rejoice
in the work of God; I rejoice in the principles of
eternal life, light and truth, which have been re-
vealed to the Latter-day Saints.
	We have been called as a people to pass through
a great deal of affliction in our day and time. But
this eternal truth remains on earth and in heaven—
that the God of Israel has set His hand to establish
His Church and Kingdom upon the earth, and to
fulfil the revelations contained within the Holy
Bible, the Old and New Testament, as well as
other records which have been given concerning
the last dispensation and fulness of times.
	We are all of us, brethren and sisters, depend-
dent upon God our Heavenly Father for all our
blessings, both temporal and spiritual. Indeed,
while I contemplate our progress, our advance-
ment, and the signs of the times in which we live,
I feel that we, as Latter-day Saints, should try to
fully realize and comprehend our responsibility
before God, before each other, before the heavens
and before the earth.
	I have for a long time had a desire to mingle
with the Latter-day Saints, and to take part in
their institutions—the Sabbath Schools, the Mu-
tual Improvement Associations, and with the vari-
ous organizations of the Church. But for several
years I have been laboring in other portions of the
country, and have been deprived of the privilege
of meeting with the Saints so far as this portion
of the Territory is concerned.
	I have desired from my youth up to become ac-
quainted with the truth as contained in the Gospel
of Jesus Christ. From my youth up I have had a
desire to live and find the people of God on the
earth. I have lived to see that day. I have live


to see Prophets, Apostles and inspired men. I
have associated with them for many years of my
life. This has been a great pleasure to me, and a 
great satisfaction to my own spirit.
	And I desire to say to the Latter-day Saints,
that we should remember that we are sent here on
a mission; that we have been born in the flesh in
this last dispensation of the fulness of times. We
have been called to labor in the vineyard of the 
Lord, called to preach the Gospel, called to warn
the nations of the earth, and many of them have 
been warned. We have traveled by land and by 
sea; have visited many foreign nations, also al-
most every part of our own nation, and some of
us are drawing our missions to a close.
	I have a desire that the Latter-day Saints should
try to live their religion, and endeaver to do what
is right; that they should have faith in God, and
in the revelations of God, and in the principles
which have been revealed to the Saints for the
salvation of the human family.
	We have a great many organizations in the 
Church and Kingdom of God, and have had al-
most from the beginning. They are so organized
that all men and women, whether young or old,
have a place of usefulness. We should try to im-
prove our time, our talents and our opportunities
while we are here upon the earth. I realize that
this world is not our abiding place. We have an 
evidence of this every day of our lives. We are
called to bury our Prophets, Apostles, Elders,
fathers, mothers, wives and children, all of which
shows us that we have no lease of life. We
should therefore improve our time to-day.
	I have felt to give the Latter-day Saints my
faith and prayers in all their labors and exertions
to build up the kingdom of God. I try to build it
up to the best of my ability in accordance with
the light and truth and knowledge which God has
given me.
	This is the first time that I have endeavored to
speak in public for a good while. I have not been 
laboring in the midst of congregations like this. I
have just passed through a week of sickness,
which laid me prostrate. I feel the effects of it in
my lungs, and in my system, yet I feel all right in
my spirit. I felt as though I desired to look upon
the faces of the Latterday Saints, and hear the 
testimonies of my brethren. They have heard 
my testimony in years past. I have the same testi-
mony to bear to-day. I bear record before God,
angels and men, that the fulness of the everlasting
Gospel has been revealed in these last days through
the Prophets of God; and that Joseph Smith was
raised up by the power of God as a Prophet, Seer
and Revelator.  He laid the foundation of this 
Church and Kingdom in its perfection, as it is at
the present time. He brought forth the record as
contained in the Book of Mormon, in fulfilment of
the predictions of the Prophets of God; also the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, which contains
those grand and solemn revelations, and those
principles of eternal truth, so precious to the Lat-
ter-day Saints. These things are true. We
should study them; lay them up in our hearts, and
practice them in our lives. This is the kingdom
of God, and the Church of Jesus Christ. The
Lord Almighty has set His hand to carry out the
great programme of the last dispensation and ful-
ness of times. If this had not been true Utah to-
day would have been in all probability a desert as
we found it in 1847, when first we came here. God
has been watching over this people, and will con-
tinue to, so long as we continue to do our duty.
So long as we humble ourselves before the Lord,
so long as we keep His commandments, so long
will the hand of God be over the Latter-day
Saints; Zion will arise; Zion will be clothed upon
by the power of God. The Lord is watching over 
her; the heavens have been watching over this 
people, and have been from the beginning. We
have the blessings of God with us. They are
manifest in our temporal and spiritual affairs.

[Column 2]

As I said in the beginning of my remarks, I
realize that the voices of those we were accus-
tomed to hear in the past are hushed in death. We
shall hear them no more. The rest of us will fol_
low in their train. We shall all pass away in our
turn, and we have a long eternity before us in the
world to come. Those that have passed away 
have closed their work here and are laboring to-
day on the other side of the vail.
	You have had laid before you, during this Con-
ference some things pertaining to the redemption
of our dead, and some things in regard to the 
building of temples. These, brethren and sisters,
are important works. They are works which we
do for others that they cannot do for themselves.
This is what Jesus Christ did when he laid down
His life for our redemption, because we could not
redeem ourselves. We have fathers and mothers
and kindred in the spirit world, and we have a
work to perform in their behalf. As an individual,
I have had great interest in this work of redeem-
ing the dead, and so have my brethren and sisters.
This is a labor we must continue as far as we have 
opportunity. This principle was taught by the
Apostle Paul. He asks, "If the dead rise not at
all, why are they then baptized for the dead?"
This is a work that rests upon the Latter-day
Saints. Do what you can in this respect,
so that when you pass to the other side of the vail
your fathers, mothers, relatives and friends will
bless you for what you have done, and inasmuch
as you have been instruments in the hands of God
in procuring their redemption you will be recog-
nized as Saviors upon Mount Zion in fulfillment of
prophecy.
	I hope that our institutions—those that have
been referred to in our Epistle—the Relief Socie-
ties, Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, etc., will continue to do good. They
have done a great deal of good, and still have the
power to do more. These institutions belong to
the organizattons of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. The brethren and sisters
should continue to labor in them in behalf of the
rising generation of this people. The Mutual im-
provement Associations are good schools in which
to prepare our young men for the vineyard of 
Christ. So also are the the various quorums of
the Priesthood, and we should all labor to the
best of our ability to fulfill the duties devolving
upon us.
	I feel the effect of my sickness; I feel it upon
my lungs, and do not think it necessary to con-
tinue my remarks. I am glad to see you, and say
God bless you, and I pray that God may pour out
His Spirit upon you, that we may magnify our 
calling, do our duty, keep the commandments of
God, so that when we get through our work we
may be satisfied with our history. I feel to bless
this congregation, as far as I have the right and 
privilege to bless, in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ. The Latter-day Saints have been trying 
to do their duty, but there is room for all to im-
prove; let us walk uprightly and labor for the
truth, and for the inspiration of Almighty God to
assist us in all we endeavor to accomplish. I 
pray our Heavenly Father to uphold and sustain
you, to bless you and your fami ies, to bless you
as husbands and wives and children and as Latter-
day Saints, or any other capacity in which we are
called to act. This is my prayer in the name of 
Jesus Christ, amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle on the 13th of September, at 10
o' clock a.m.  After singing, prayer was offered
by Coun. Olivia Widerborg.  Continued by
singing.  Minutes of previous conference read

[column 2]
by the Secretary, Mary E. Snow, and approved.
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few remarks,
and the statistical and financial reports from 
23 different branches were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Sister Zina D. Young said, "My dear sisters,
you have left your homes and families, and I
suppose you have cared for your little ones,
that they have proper attention in your absence.
You have met together to be strengthened and
comforted.  Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith is bet-
ter, and she sends you her love and blessing.  I
have been pleased to hear your reports.  The
Lord said, ‘Speak often one to another.’ If
those who stay away could know what they
lose, a great many more would strive to attend
meeting.  Keep up gathering wheat.  We are 
doing a great and good work; it is not alone in
looking after the poor, but in saving souls. We 
must take care the Lamanites do not excel us;
you heard their report; they have 58 members
enrolled and 40 average attendance; this speaks
well for them. Our children are our main care;
the allurements are just terrible; when we
slacken in prayer and commence fault-finding,
then we are in danger.  Our souls need food as
well as our bodies.  We are living in an age;
when the fulfilment of prophecy goes on before
our eyes daily.   We need strength and we
receive it by meeting together.  As Bro. Kimball
has predicted, we are living in a testing time; it
is labor continually, but thereby we lay up
treasures in heaven; we may be tried in our
feelings, but I hope not in our faith. The
kindness and love of God in organizing these
associations in everything to me, above all the
wealth of the world.  The Prophet Joseph 
Smith said, ‘This work is not perfect without
these organizations.’ We can work for the liv-
ing, and we can go and work for the dead.
May God bless you and comfort your hearts;
and may He bless us all, that we may continue 
faithful unto the end and receive a fulness of
the reward in store for the faithful, is my prayer
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	Sister Harper said, “I hope, my sisters, we
may all have the spirit of our religion, that we
may withstand the trials and temptations of
the present time.”
	Sisters Hunsaker, Jensen and Watkins each
spoke briefly and encouragingly.  Exercises
closed by singing, and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Hubbard.
	Afternoon session:  Opened by singing.
Prayer by Coun. Susannah P. Booth. Singing.
Condensed report read by Mary E Snow.
	Emilia D. Madsen spoke of the evil conse-
quences of supporting our enemies. “We
should patronize and sustain our own brethren
and sisters.”
	Sister Peery said, “I would not sacrifice my
position with my sisters to-day for all the
wealth of the world; we are the salt of the
earth; we need to be on our guard, lest the ad-
versary throw doubt in our hearts.  Let us re-
member our prayers; the first thing I do in the
morning is to ask my Heavenly Father to lead
me through the day.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young: “It is through 
obedience and humility that we gain the bless-
ings of the Lord. When I hear of any of our
brethren or sisters departing from the truth, I feel
bad; I do not feel that sorrow when one of my 
brethren or sisters die and are clothed in their
robes; we have to be tried to know which side
we belong to.  Joseph Smith said if we prayed
morning and night we should never apostatize.
Mothers need the assistance of the Lord; never
let your children be exposed to danger; it is
for us to stand for the kingdom of God; the plat-
form of faith and obedience is for the mothers
to rest on.” Showed how men who had re-
ceived visions and great testimonies had after 
all apostatized, hence how careful we should
be. “ ‘Fear not, but follow our file leaders,' has
been my motto always; let not fear fill your


[Column 1]
hearts; comfort those who are downcast and
tried; remember, whenever these uprisings
come, these inroads are made, we have made
another step heavenward. Encourage our
Primary and our Young Ladies' Associations;
this is the way we should save souls; let our
children feel that we become better by attend-
ing Relief Society meeting. Try to have the
Juvenile Instructor and WOMAN'S EXPONENT
in your homes. May your hearts always be
willing to do the will of the Lord, is my prayer
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Bro. E. A. Box addressed the assembly
forcibly and by the Spirit of the Lord on
many important subjects and duties.
	Prest. Harriet Snow proposed conference ad-
journ for three months. Singing, "Lord dis-
miss us with Thy blessing." Benediction by
Bishop Harper.

	After 4 o'clock a number of the sisters met
at the residence of Sister Sarah Snow, where,
previously, a number of well filled baskets had
been secreted; we had confided in "Aunt Zina,"
so that she secured our beloved "Aunt Harriet"
at home, and while she stepped outside to care
for her chickens, the parlor became crowded
with happy self invited guests. When "Aunt
Harriet" returned she was greeted with the
singing of "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet," after which Sister Widerborg stepped
forward and said, "We congratulate you,
Aunt Harriet, on your 68th birthday," and all
around came, "May your last days be your
best." "Aunt Harriet" looked the very picture
"surprise." With much merriment the table
was spread, or rather crowded, with a delicious
supper, and a few hours were passed in true
happiness, the object fully realized, to tender
our love and confidence in our President. Sister
Harriet Snow, and which was made doubly en-
joyable by the presence of our beloved Sister,
Zina D. H. Young.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

		JUAB STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Juab
Stake of Zion was held in the meeting house
at Nephi, on Friday, Sept. 23rd, 1887, Sister
Mary Pitchforth presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Bishop Udall. Con-
tinued with singing by the choir, followed by
the reading of the minutes of the previous
conference by Coun. Amy L. Bigler, the Secre-
tary being necessarily absent, also reading of
reports from the several branches. 
	Prest. Pitchforth made appropriate opening
remarks; rejoiced to see the faces of the sisters
present, but hoped there would be a better
attendance in the afternoon. Exhorted all to
put their trust in God; mentioned that Sisters
E. B. Wells and E. S. Taylor were present 
from Salt Lake City.
	Sister Rebecca Udall reported the Nephi
branch of the Relief Society; said they had a
faithful company of teachers; thanked the
brethren and sisters for the liberal donations,
which supplied the wants of the needy; made
some explanations in regard to the property
reported, and very good remarks in reference
to duties and blessings.
	Coun. Maranda Bryan exhorted the sisters
to faithfulness, and to strive to build each
other up, and not bear malice towards any one.
"We have every encouragement to press for-
ward and do right. I always love to meet
with my sisters and look upon their beautiful
faces they always look beautiful to me, and I
feel it will be a great joy for us to meet with
each other in the next world." Hoped all
would be willing to perform their duties at all
times, and asked God to bless each and every
one. 
	The hymn, "The Kingdom of God," was
sung by Sister Grace, who has long been known
as one of the sweet singers in Israel.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. B. Wells them addressed the meet-
ing upon the subjects of faith and integrity,
and urged upon the sisters the need of study,
and applying the truths learned and the truths
revealed through the servants of God, in their
lives, and that they might comprehend for
themselves and be able to impart and explain
the principles of our faith to our children, to
our families, and to those who visit us from
time to time, that we might show to the world
we were not the degraded, and down-trodden
women we were represented to be by our
enemies. Spoke of the many blessings enjoyed
by the women of Zion as compared with the
women of the world; referred to the interpreta-
tion of the Edmunds Tucker law by the judges
and the courts here, and the cruelty it inflicted
upon men, women and children, in imprison-
ment and the breaking up of sacred homes and
family ties. Gave a brief account of the case
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, as argued before the
Supreme Court of the United States, and her
ideas in reference to the decision given after the
hearing. Alluded to the franchise and the un-
just way in which it had been taken, but be-
lieved we should acknowledge the hand of God
even in this. Exhorted the sisters to let no
opportunity pass where they could be the
means of doing good, and prayed we might
have wisdom to guide us in all things.
	Sister Aggard, President of the Levan branch
of the Relief Society, gave a good report of its
condition, and thought the majority of the sis-
ters there were striving to do their duty and
live their religion. Prayed that we might have
wisdom to guide us to do right at all times.
	Singing, "On the mountain tops appearing,"
etc. Benediction by Bro. Knight.

	Afternoon session; Quite a large congrega-
tion were present, Prest. Pitchforth conducting
the meeting. After the usual exercises of
singing, prayer was offered by Patriarch J. 
G. Bigler. Singing by the choir, followed by
Sister Tyndall, who reported the Mona branch
as in a flourishing condition. Said the Presi-
dent, Sister Eliza Somerville, was not able to
attend the conference.
	Sister E. S. Taylor addressed the meeting.
Said there were many who had had a greater
experience than she had, but thought we all
had a history of our own, and we must work
out our own salvation, and she was glad that
we must, because no one could take our glory
from us. "We must all work, and the place
to work is in our societies. It is natural for
women to be sympathetic and look after the
needy and help those who are not as well situ-
ated as they are. I believe every woman who
is in good standing in the Church should be a
member of the Relief Society, because it is a
place to improve; plead with all who are not
identified with the Society to come and be one
with us, and not put it off." Did not think a
man upon a foreign mission had a greater re-
sponsibility resting upon him than a wife or
mother "God expects us to render unto Him
an account of how we have trained those im-
mortal souls He has entrusted to our care. Are
your children in the Sabbath School, in the
Primary, or where are they, in the day school?
It is a crying shame in Zion, that our children
are sent to schools where they are taught that
our leaders are the great false prophets of the
last days." Spoke at some length upon the
rearing of our children, and allowing them to
drift away from the principles of the Gospel;
said there is much required of us as mothers,
sisters or friends. Spoke against fault-finding
with the authorities, and upon celestial marriage,
that it was a correct principle, and no one
could speak against it and have a good spirit.
Exhorted mothers to be kind to their sons and
daughters, and thereby draw them near to
them. "The times of trial through which we
are passing are not pleasant, but it is what
purifies us and makes us fit for the Master's

[Column 3]
use." Prayed God to bless us and fit us for
every duty.
	Sister Jane Andrews sung most beautifully
the exquisite piece; beginning, "Fading away
like the stars of the morning."
	Sister M. A. Taylor, Prest. of Juab branch
R. S. made some good remarks, and reported
that they had no poor in their ward, but the
sisters were doing all they could for the Tem-
ple. 
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the many duties
devolving upon us in this dispensation, and 
the little time we have to accomplish the great
work; much was required, and we would have
strength given us equal to our day and its bur-
dens. "We should help each other, and con-
sider other's rights as sacred and as much to
be respected as our own. Put away selfishness
and the love of pleasure, and cultivate all the
higher qualities of heart and mind; make our
homes the most attractive places in the world
for our children and those we love. Every
principle of truth, virtue and holiness belongs
to the Gospel. Some homes have been broken
up, and it has caused sorrow and trouble; some
of our sisters are exiles because of having
obeyed a higher law, and they need our sym-
pathy, and a little help from those who are
able to give, and we shall be blest in giving.
There has been very liberal donatians in this
Stake, and it would prove a blessing to the
giver as well as the receiver." Touched upon
other subjects of interest.
	Prest. Pitchforth felt it had been a time of
refreshing to all that had attended the confer-
ence, and expressed the pleasure she felt in
performing her duties and labors for the good 
of her sisters, and in visiting the several
branches she felt blest; spoke of the duties and
responsibilities devolving upon the Relief So-
ciety, and encouraged the sisters in a very
happy manner to press forward in their labors;
advised them to store up grain, and to be kind,
gentle, amiable and polite to all, and seek to
put into practice the good instructions they
had heard during the conference. Asked God
to bless them and give them His Holy Spirit
at all times.
	The officers of the Relief Society of the
Stake were then presented, and sustained unani-
mously; also the officers of the several branches
in the stake.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Singing by the choir, a piece to the memory of
President Taylor, entitled, "Gone to His Rest."
Benediction by Elder L. A. Bailey.

P. A. JUAB STAKE.

	The conference of the Primary Associations
of Juab Stake was held in the meeting house
at Nephi, Sept. 24th, 1887, at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. 
A. Cazier presiding, and Coun. Caroline Bigler
present. On the stand were Sisters Mary
Pitchforth, E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor and
several others; also Patriarch J. G. Bigler and 
other brethren. Meeting opened with singing
by the children, "Don't kill the birds." Prayer
was offered by Patriarch Bigler, then the
children sung, "Joseph Smith's First Prayer."
	A few opening remarks were made by the
President, and the minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved. Reports
from the several Primaries in the Stake were
also read, and the President announced the 
programme for the occasion: Manuscript
paper from the South Ward Nephi, entitled,
"The Busy Bee," Vol. 1, No. 4; Motto, "Obe-
dience," was read by Miss Stella Neff, Editress;
Manuscript paper from the North Ward Nephi,
"The Primary Journal," Vol. 1. No. 4, Motto,
"Chastity and Virtue," by Miss Rosa Bailey,
Editress. The programme was carried out,
consisting of songs, recitations and essays, the
children performing their parts very creditably,
and showing that there was excellent talent to
be developed among the little people; the sing-


[column 1]
ing, especially, was very fine, and it was very
gratifying to observe the great pains taken by
the officers of the Associations in the training
of these little ones in the paths of reghteousness.
The officers of the P. A. of the Stake were
sustained by the vote of the conference as
they stood, and also those of the several Prim-
aries in the wards, except in the South Ward
of Nephi, Sister Maggie Jenkins having re-
signed; her resignation was accepted, and a
vote of thanks tendered her for her faithful
services. Sister Jane Booth was nominated
and sustained as President in place of Sister
M. Jenkins, resigned, with Ann Jared and
Stella Neff as Counselors.
The conference was adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Open the door for the
children.” Benediction by Elder H. McCune.

Y. L. JUAB STAKE.
The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of Juab
Stake convened in the meeting house at Nephi,
at 2 p.m., Mrs, Matilda E. Teasdale presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Elder H.
McCune, and the choir sang, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.” Minutes of the 20th
quarterly conference were then read and ap-
proved; also reports from the several Y. L.
Associations in the Stake.
Opening remarks by Prest Teasdale, suited
to the occasion, and calculated to awaken an
interest in the young sisters to improve and
obtain a knowledge of those things which
would exalt, refine and purify them. Song,
“The Gipsy’s Child,” sung by one of the young
ladies in a very touching manner. The Manu-
script paper, entitled, “The Young Ladies’
Journal,” was read by Miss Louie Udall in a
very clear voice, and with excellent expression.
“The Organ Builder” was eloquently recited.
Miss Schofield, President Nephi Y. L., made
some excellent remarks, and urged upon the
young the necessity of improvement.
Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the meeting on
the subject of education and the cultivation of
the highest and holiest attributes of the human
soul.
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, President of the Central
Board of Y. L. M. I. A., occupied most of the
afternoon in giving instruction to the young
ladies. Wanted them to feel the importance
of attending their meetings, and inproving
their time and talents, and puttiug their talents
to usury, and the reward would be sure.
Urged the necessity of a testimony to the truth
of the Gospel; if they could obtain that, they
might be able to stand the trials of the times
in which we live and which are prophesied of.
Advised them in reference to choosing a com
panion for life; said, “Let the man you choose
be a man of God, who will be pure; make
virtue and purity more than your life. If you
do not choose such a husband, you will be
more or less contaminated; ‘Evil communica-
tions corrupt good manners;' cultivate polite-
ness, courtesy, kindness and love.” .Recom-
mended cheerfulness; liked to see the young
glad and joyous, but the house of God should
not be desecrated by trivolous behavior. “Do
I know this Gospel is true? Yes, I know it
beyond the shadow of contradiction.”
Urged the girls to read the newspapers and
study politics; spoke of the suffrage, and said,
“When women have the right to vote they will
not have many rum-holes, because they natur-
ally are pure. Learn housekeeping; make
home and father and mother happy; cultivate
flowers; encourage a love for the beautiful; I
wish I could set you all down in Golden Gate
Park in San Francisco, to behold its beauty; it
is a most beautiful sight and you would enjoy
it.” In regard to marrying outside the Church,
said to the girls, “Don’t let it be the case with
any of you.” Encouraged the young to be
married in the house of the Lord and begin
life right. “Perform well all duties; see that
[column 2]
your reports are correct and in readiness at
the proper time.” Spoke of the Stake Fund;
that each branch should give 50 cts a year in
to the Stake Treasury for public purposes,
stationery and other uses; thought the young
ladies should have a separate organization,
but conjoint meetings might be held monthly;
knew it was the feelings of the brethren and of
Sister Snow Smith, that they should be or-
ganized separately.
Prest. Teasdale expressed her pleasure in
seeing so large a congregation, and that there
had been such good instruction given; hoped
all would renew their diligence, and labor
faithfully in the time to come.
Officers of the Stake Y. L. M. I. A. and of
the several Associations in the Stake were
unanimously sustained, and conference was ad-
journed for three months. Singing, “Utah,
the Queen of the West.” Prayer by Patriarch
J. G. Bigler.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SUCCESSFUL SURPRISE.

	Last night the Fourth Ward school house
was made the scene of an enjoyable entertain-
ment given in honor of Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
President of the Relief Society in this County.
The affair was arranged by the Fourth Ward
Society, under the direction of Mrs Marianna
Stratford, President, and her counselors, Mrs.
Maria Chambers and Mrs. Elizabeth Parkinson;
and they were supported in the plan by Mrs.
L. W. Shurtlift, counselor to the Relief Sociey
stake presidency. The entertainment was a
complete surprise to Mrs. Richards and her
family. They were invited to be present as it
to attend a meeting, and when Mrs. Richards
discovered the real nature of the gathering she
was overcome by emotion
	Speeches, songs, instrumental music and
brief addresses filled the time except when the
company was at the supper tables. Every
feature of the picnic and entertainment was a
success. Apostle Richards was present and
made some instructive remarks.
	An eloquent and touching address was read
to Mrs. Richards. It was signed by the offi
cers and members of the Fourth Ward Re-
lief Society and it expressed the love and con-
fidence of all in Mrs. Richards. A tasteful
little memento accompanied the address. Mrs.
Richards responded toward the close of the
entertainment with words well-chosen and full
of gentleness and help.
	The surprise was a success in every way, and the
ladies who managed it are to be congratulated
upon the good taste with which the affair was
conducted.— Ogden Herald.
	Oct. 20, 1887.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Sawyer, wife of the Mayor of Lincoln,
was recently admitted to the bar of Nebraska.

	Mrs. Myra Bradwell has for the eighteenth
year prepared for publication the session laws
of Illinois.

	Miss Mary Tillinghurst, who has designed a
painted window for a church in New York, is
said to be the first American woman em-
ployed in ecclesiastical work. She is the same
lady who was paid a fabulous sum by Vander-
bilt for some tapestry hangings.

	Miss Phoebe Cousens, just appointed marshal
of the U.S. Court in St. Louis, is the first
woman who ever held such a place. She is
appointed by Justice Miller to succeed her


father, and it is thought that the President
will make her tenure permanent.—Ex.

	The Woman's Congress, of which Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe is President, will meet in Masonic
Temple, New York on the 26th, 27th and 28th
insts. Sorosis and the New York Local Com-
mittee to the A. A. W. are making great pre-
parations to entertain the Congress, and
an enjoyable as well as useful week
is anticipated. All women who expect to attend,
whether members or not, are requested to send
their names to Mrs. Geo. W. Townsend, 351
Pearl Street, New York. The publications of
tho Association are no longer mailed to those
whose dues are in arrears.


OBITUARY.
	DIED, at Gunnison, Sanpete Co., Utah, October 17th,
1887, Sarah Copley, daughter of John and Ellen Gilmer,
and widow of John Copley. She was born May 10th,
1818, in Lanarkshire, Scotland; was baptized in 1847, by
Elder Wm. Livingstone, at Ardry, Scotland; kept an open
house for the Elders in Dundee Branch from 1850 until she
emigrated to Utah in 1863; moved to Gunnison in 1866.
Was President of the Gunnison Relief Sociery from June
28th, 1875, until the day of her death   To the sick and the
needy she has made herself especially endeared; through
her sympathy for the sufferings of others, she had a keen
eye to observe where help was needed, and her kind heart
and willing hand administered it with Saintly discretion.
She died a firm believer in all the principles of the Gospel.
										H. M.
	Gunnison, Oct. 28th, 1887.


R. K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. David James. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS,	TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 16.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1887.			No. 12.


ECHOES OF THE PAST.

		BY FANNIE HOLDEN FOWLER.

	How strangely sweet the airs of old
	Their melody the heart doth hold
	Through all the past and teeming years,
	Too weird for mirth, too sad for tears !
	Their echoes linger like a spell
	Where dreamy thoughts are wont to dwell,
	Aud through the lapse of time and tide
	Unfold the doors of Memory wide.

	Sweet friends, who reached the golden shore
	Ere life grew stale,—the songs of yore
	Come floating from your starlit heights,
	As sweet as in those summer nights
	When, in the life of long ago,
	Your music trembled to and fro,
	Swaying the soft and limpid air,
	As light as love, as pure as prayer.

	Now Fancy with her magic light
	Traces each form in memory bright;
	And father, brother, child and friend
	Upon my footsteps still attend.
	I see the crown of silvery hair,
	The placid smile he used to wear;
	I hear the welcome of that day
	Of olden time, long passed away,
	The merry songs and pastimes sweet
	Of childish glee I used to greet;
	Till life seems young, and all things glow
	In sunlight of the long ago.
						—Woman’s Journal.


WILLIE AND JOSEPH. F.

I knew the first, a boy so bright and pure,
	So gentle and affectionate and good,
High in the angel’s records, I am sure,
	When his release was sent, he must have stood.

The little fellow when he was but three,
	Stoutly refused on Fast-day morn, to eat;
For, if his father fasted, so must he—
	And off to meeting went, firm, yet so sweet!

But Willie died, while yet a little child,
	Although he seemed so rosy, well and strong;
Ah! friends, be not by outward signs beguiled—
	The best and noblest oft remain not long.

Then, as a recompense, another son,
	Our Father gave, with tender, loving grace;
A child "peculiar" from his birth, and one
	They felt could almost fill the vacant place.

The parents, fond and hopeful, full of joy,
	That God remembered them, and heard them pray,
The name of "Joseph F," gave this dear boy,
	For the brave Prophet Exile of to-day.

Oh, Saints of God! we are so very slow,
	To understand our Father’s wise decrees;
It is not meet all should to manhood grow,
	Behind the vail there’s work for such as these.

Each has his part assigned, each knows his place,
	They come to earth, their bodies thus secure,
Return, and there before the Father's face,
	They minister in work sublime and pure.

Thus, friends beloved, your Joseph came and went,
	And you shall know, in God’s own time and way,
For what peculiar mission he was sent—
	Be faithful, and await the blissful day.
									LULA.


A VISIT TO THE NORTH.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	I have been visiting my old home in the
North this summer; the dear old home I left
just ten years ago with my parents, who were
seeking a better home in the far South.
	And this was my first sorrow, to leave my
childhood’s home, with its beautiful surround-
ings, its green hills, its cool, delightful canons,
its pure, warbling streams, with its waving wil-
lows on their banks, its secluded pastures;
where we hunted the wild strawberry or
plucked the fragrant wild rose. All these I
loved with a love that was a part of my life,and
to leave them, with all the dear companions
and associates of my girlhood, seemed more
than I could bear. But the troubles of youth
are soon forgotten; and although our route for
the greater part was over mountains, across
deserts and through sand and dust, yet each
succeeding day brought something new and in-
teresting. Peace and happiness came in the
new home, but the level, desert plains of Ari-
zona could never take the place, in my heart,
of the mountains, hills and canons I loved so
well; and the mild winter weather could not
take the place of the beautiful snow, the merry
sleigh-rides by moonlight, and the many
pleasures incident to a cold climate.
	But this was not what I started to tell. It
was of my visit home after an absence of ten
years. And, oh! how I enjoyed it—the same
old hills, canons, creeks and nooks, all so famil-
iar’ to me. I visited the dear old saw-mill,
around which so many happy memories cling,
almost the same as when I saw it last, with its
pine logs and piles of sweet-scented lumber.
The town itself is much changed. I see im-
provement on every hand. Comfortable, and
even luxurious homes are taking the place of
the double log house of earlier days. And the
old schoolmates—the boys and girls that were
the belles and beaux of our quiet little village
ten years ago—death has entered our ranks
and taken three of the best and dearest girl
friends; several have found homes in the far,
sunny south, others have moved to various
points and but few remain. The happy, care-
less boys, that were then just merging into
manhood—some have filled and others are fill-
ing honorable missions, and are faithful workers
in the kingdom of our God; while some of
both sexes have strayed from the Gospel paths
and have found sorrow and discontent. I visited
with many dear friends, but all seem changed,
and as I view these many changes that have
taken place, I feel like a second Rip Van Win-
kle, and that I alone am the same. But as I
look at my two sturdy boys and my sweet baby
girl, I realize that there is a great difference
between 17 and 27, and that I, too, am changed.
And as I sit musing in the twilight over the
various fortunes of the friends of my early
youth, some happy, some so very sad, I kneel
and thank my God that my feet have not been
permitted to stray from the sheltering folds of
the Gospel, and that my barque has anchored
in a haven of rest.
							RACHEL.
	Salt Lake City, Oct. 29, 1887.


VISIT TO THE POET WHITTIER

	A hundred times or more since my return
from my visit to New England in the winter

[column 2]
﻿of 1885-86, I have thought that I would write
up my visit to the great American Quaker
Poet, John G. Whittier; always waiting for a
time when I could have more leisure or a bet-
ter opportunity out in the green fields, or by
the winter fireside; but to one whose busy life
is all hurry, and every hour occupied, no such
time seems to come. However, I will make an
attempt at telling the facts.
	It was a cold day in midwinter, and the
snow lay very heavy upon the ground. I had
been in Boston then several days, had visited
some of the most noted public places, and
hunted up cousins whom I had never seen be-
fore, and had called at the office of the
Woman's Journal and The Watchman, con-
versed with the editors about general matters,
and about Utah matters in particular, had
seen a number of notable people, and had
dined, by invitation, with Lucy Stone, certainly
one of the greatest women in America, where
I also met her bright, intellectual and gifted
daughter, Alice Stone Blackwell, and began
to think of going up into the country again to
finish my visit with brothers and sisters and
old school friends, but before going back to the
beautiful Connecticutt Valley I was determined
to see one or two people in whom I had a
special interest. The most important of these
was the illustrious Poet, Whittier, whom I had
quoted from a child, and whom all New Eng-
land people are so proud to claim as one of
their own. I had been invited by his cousins,
who had twice called upon me in Salt Lake, to
come to Oak Knoll in Danvers, and they
had promised to introduce me to Mr. Whittier,
and also to Elizabeth Stuart Phelps.
	And as we do in the childrens’ stories, I will
repeat again, it was a cold day in midwinter,
but I wrapped up well, and was soon at the
station, where I took the train on the Old
Colony Road for Danvers. Arrived at the
depot about noon, and drove to an old-time
hotel and dined Ordered a horse and sleigh,
as I learned it was some little distance to Oak
Knoll, and in a few minutes we drove up the
steep hill to the new and stately residence very
properly called Oak Knoll. It looked very
grand and imposing, and in Summer or Autumn
the grounds and surroundings must be all one’s
fancy could paint for a poet’s home. The fine
situation of the house on the brow of the hill,
the magnificent old trees, the architecture of
the handsome modern building, all tend to
make the whole a picture of beauty, and give
an impression of elegance and grandeur.
	As we drove close to the place I noticed a
woman of stately figure upon the the piazza
facing the drive; she came forward immediately
and soon recognized me, without explanation.
She knew I wanted to see her cousin, the poet.
and said, “How sorry I am, Mrs. W---------, but
he is not here; he has gone to Amesbury on
business, though we expect him home soon.” I
was most kindly and hospitably welcomed, my
wraps taken off, and the conveyance sent away;
meantime I was ushered into a large and elegant 
parlor, where a handsome painting of the poet
when a young man, adorned the space above
the mantel. It was a large and very interest-
ing portrait, and so life-like that one could
easily imagine he was about to speak. There
were many beautiful ornaments and some ex-
quisite statuary in the room, and it presented,
altogether, the attractive appearance of a
most artistically furnished draw-ing-room.
Another of the cousins came in almost


as soon as I reached the parlor, but the
eldest was reclining on a sofa in the adjoining
parlor, where a bright wood fire was burning
on the hearth; that room, too, seemed the per-
fection of elegance in its furnishings; the lady
rose from the sofa almost immediately, and
came to join in the conversation, which, as a
natural consequence, was of Utah and the
“Mormons.” I found all three sisters accom-
plished and intelligent women, and much more
free from prejudice than most of the people one
meets here and there in traveling, and they con-
versed on the subject of the Edmunds bill and
the measures taken to enforce the law, with
much feeling and interest in our affairs. They
also talked to me of the place, the trees, the
fruits and the shrubbery around Oak Knoll,
and the pleasure of gathering the nuts for
winter, and how their cousin, the poet, enjoyed
these simple pastimes. It is indeed a grand
and poetic place, and might be written up in
verse the most tender and sentimental.
This is a very rambling account of my visit,
and, like the childrens’ stories, will have to be
continued next time.
E.B. Wells.   Aunt Em.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WARNING 
FOR THE YOUNG PEOPLE IN UTAH.
     The Rev. M. T. Lamb is traveling over the
country lecturing on Mormonism, and how to
meet it from a Christian standpoint. He di-
vides Mormons into three classes; the leaders, or
hypocrites, as he styles them (but we know
better), the sincere Mormons and the indifferent
young people. The first class he has no hopes
of; not much of the second, but the third class
he has great hopes of converting over to the
so-called Christianity, and he has great hopes
of the apostates. The latter glass he is wel-
come to, as we have no use for them. But to
my young brethren and sisters, who have not
a testimony of this work called Mormon-
ism, I would say, they should seek diligently
to secure a testimony for themselves. “Seek,
and ye shall find, knock, and it shall be opened
unto you.” Then when he, the Rev. Mr;
Lamb, brings the 10,000 copies of his Golden
Bibles to distribute among the young people
of Utah, they will be prepared to meet him with
a knowledge for themselves; and you will get
it if you ask God in faith, and of this I am a
living witness.
     I was away from the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints from the time I was
twelve years old until I was thirty-two, and I
prayed earnestly to my Heavenly Father to
lead and guide me in the right. I sought for
light and truth, but found it not until I had
the privilege af listening again to the Elders
who are sent out to preach the Gospel as it
was taught by Jesus Christ Himself and all of
His Apostles and Prophets, and I know it is
the Gospel and power of God unto salvation,and
would not exchange this knowledge for all
the world contains. And so may you know,
my brethren and sisters, if you will strive to
do so.
     May God bless you all, and lead you in the
paths of truth and righteousness, that when
the “wolf in sheep’s clothing” shall present
himself before you, you may stand firm to
God and the truth, with a knowledge of your
own, is the prayer of,
     Your sister in the Gospel of Christ,
				     ELIZABETH JONES.
Council Bluffs.


NOTES AND NEWS.

Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher has for many
years edited a department in the Domestic
Monthly.


The Queen of Roumania has just completed
a novel, the scene of which is laid among the
ancient Dacians.
	The Turks are coming forward in History.
Lieut. Col. Talat Bey has written the “Battles
of Plevna.”
	There is a watch in a Swiss museum only
three sixteenths of an inch in diameter, insert-
ed in the top of a pencil-case. Its little dial in-
dicates not only hours, minutes, and seconds,but
also the days of the month.
	It is said that once in happy Finland the
average publication of books was one yearly.
In 1855 the average had increased to ten. But
the world is growing worse and the yearly
yield numbers 1,290 volumes. 
	Mr. Walter Besant, with a collaborateur, has
been rewriting Scribe’s Gringoire, under the
title of “The Ballad Monger” with Mr. Beer-
bohm Tree in the title role. This is not Mr.
Besant’s first essay in dramatic writing. He
with James Rice, early in their double
career; produced “Such a Good Man”—a com-
edy.
The Donnelly Shakespeare incident has
induced Messrs. Funk & Wagnalls to republish
a fac-simile edition of the 1623 folio edition
of Shakespeare, on which the Donnelly cipher
is based. The reprint is made from a photo-
graphic reproduction of the original reduced to
crown octavo size, and is now in press.
	Mrs. Craik was prompted to write her last
book, “An Unknown Country,” which discusses
the condition of the poor in the North of Ire-
land, by overhearing the remark of a laboring
man, who, when rallied upon helping a little
girl across the street, replied, “Ay, but a
’andful of ’elp is worth a cartload of pity.”


INTERESTING ITEMS.
Juarez, Mexico, Oct. 24, 1887.
Editor Exponent:
	Perhaps a few notes from this far away
place in regard to woman’s work may not be.
amiss:
	In July of 1886, though our camp was in an
unsettled state, Brother Teasdale thought it
best to organize a Primary Association, which
he did, with Sister Hannah H. Romney, Presi-
dent; Sisters Olive C. Moffet and Mattie Dil-
man, Counselors. Apostle Teasdale encouraged
the children and officers with his presence while
he remained with us, and quite a lively interest
was manifest in the training of our children.
On the 7th of last July an organization of
the Relief Society and Young Ladies’ Associa-
tion was effected, the President of the former
being Sister Elizabeth Hawkins, and of the
latter Sister Dora Pratt, both of whom have
labored faithfully in their respective offices,
and with good results. Sister Romney was
also at the same time given two new Counselors,
as her previous ones had moved away, Sisters
Mary E. Taylor and Annie Skonsen being sub-
stituted.
	Sister Minerva W. Snow was present at the
organization, and gave the sisters of the differ-
ent associations some excellent instructions in
regard to their duties, etc. She has endeared
herself to the sisters here by her active sym-
pathy and encouragement.
We are doing as well as we can in our un-
settled condition, but hope to do much better
when we have a comfortable schoolhouse to
meet in, which we hope will be in the near
future.
	The young people are anticipating, a nice
time this winter in their conjoint meetings, etc.
	There has been considerable sickness the last


two months, but the health of the people at
this date is much better, except that many of 
the children are having sore eyes just now, but
this does not deter them from turning out to
their Primary meetings, as nearly every child
in town was present last week.
			Yours as ever,
							KATE.


Y. L. AND P. A. FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	October 20th, 1887, we held our Annual
Fair for the Primary Association of Millville;
the Young Ladies also held theirs with us this
year. Meeting held at ten a.m. Singing by
the Young Ladies. Prayer by Sarah Gamble.
Then singing by the Primary Association.
	V. S. Cummings addressed the meeting, and
spoke very encouragingly.
	Sister Jane Cummings said she was pleased
to see so many children, and all looked so happy
and well.
	Sister Jane Molen addressed the children in
her usual pleasant way. She said that she was
pleased to meet with the children, and also the
young ladies, and was pleased with the pro-
gramme; she thought they rendered their parts
well; she was also pleased with the articles that
the Young Ladies and Primary Children had
made; hoped they would still continue in well-
doing, and not forget these annual fairs, for
they are very beneficial to the young people.
	There was a dance for the children in the
afternoon; they all enjoyed themselves very
much, and felt well. We concluded the day
with a dance for the young folks at night
	With good wishes for the EXPONENT, etc.,
				SARAH GAMBLE, Prest.
				EVA GAMBLE, Sec.


MISCELLANEOUS.

One seldom speaks of the virtue which one
has; but much oftener of that which fails us.— 
G. Lessing.

Whatever is the subject of faith should not
be submitted to reason, and much less bend to
it.—Pascal.

Tears are the softening showers which cause
the seed of heaven to spring up in the human
heart.—Sir W. Scott.

Poetry is music in words, and music is poe-
try in sound; both excellent sauce, but they
have lived and died poor that made them their
meat.—T. Euller.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

     The Y. L. M. I. A. of Minersville adopted the following
Resolutions Oct. 1st, 1887;
     Whereas, On the 25th day of September, 1887, it pleased
an Alwise Creator to remove from our midst by the hand
of death, Sister Maria E. Walker, born August 26th, 1858,
and,
     Whereas, She was elected President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Nov, 24th, 1884, which office she held until the time of her
death, and,
     Whereas, She was an active member and teacher of the
Relief Society, also a teacher and Secretary of the Sab-
bath School,
     Whereas, She has filled these several offices with faithful-
ness and integrity, showing by her example and precept
that she was ever willing to do her duty, therefore, be it
     Resolved, That the community have sustained a severe
loss in the demise of one so good and useful; therefore,
be it
     Resolved, That we extend our heart-felt sympathies to
the bereaved husband aud relatives; also,
     Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be spread
upon the records of the Y. L. M. I. A.; also one sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and one pre-
sented to her husband.
						HATTIE BRADSHAW, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LINES

ADDRESSED TO THOSE WHO ARE CAST INTO PRISON
		FOR THE GOSPEL’S SAKE.

	Adieu, sweet homes, we must bid you adieu,
	Dear wives and children; and hasten from you;
	The thoughts of a prison extorts a deep sigh,
	Our hearts sink within us, to high heaven we cry.

	The stripes in our clothes not long shall we wear,
	But robes of bright glory shining and fair:
	With a crown on our heads that will dazzle the sun,
	And from glory to glory eternally run.
						MRS. E. G. WILLIAMS.
	Farmington, March 1st, 1887.

	The lady is eighty-two years old, and belonged to the
first Relief Society that was organized in the Church by
Joseph Smith the Prophet.


SORGUM.

The glories of mush and milk have been rung,
In language sublime its praises sung;
So to old sorgum I'll tune my Lyre, 	
And thoughts of the children my muse will inspire;
With “bread and lasses” what can compare,
In the heterogenous bill of fare;
What can so touch up the rosy face,
And "fix” the Sunday clothes and lace?
I once knew a girlie with bright black eye,
That afterwards made the lovers sigh.
Turn from a sumptuous Christmas dinner,
And beg mama for "lasses” "Don’t ant such dinner."
See white heads and curly heads gathered round
The old Sorgum Mill wherever found;
And pearly teeth grinding, grinding away,
From early dawn until close of day,
Now hurrying up the horses slow,
Who think there’s no end to this weary row;
Now riding the sweep while the horses rest,
And shouting and singing the songs of the blest;
What visions of taffy float through the head,
When laid on the little trundle bed,
Or while watching the skimming and storing away,
Throughout their young morning's glorious day;
And the candy-pullings, how bright a part
They fill in many a girlish heart;
And many a boy remembers well,
'Twas the night when he did his first love tell.
Smile not at my humble, simple lay,
Ye who soar in the heights of the starry way;
I am down with the children on earth below,
Where the daisies and starry eyes brightly blow;
Now all who will may join in the shout,
Let three glad cheers of joy ring out,
For the Mill, the Miller, the children all.
And may never a shadow upon them fall;
May nothing darker than "lasses” stain
The heart or soul on life’s wide plain,
And may the Father gather them in,
Well ground and cleansed from every sin.


ONE LESS AT HOME.

		One less at home! 
The charmed circle broken—a dear face
Missed day by day from its accustomed place,
But, cleansed and saved and perfected by grace,
		One more in heaven!
	
		One less at home!
One voice of welcome hushed, and evermore
One farewell word unspoken; on the shore
Where parting comes not, one soul landed more,
		One more in heaven!

		One less at home!
A sense of loss that meets us at the gate;
Within, a place unfilled and desolate;
And far away, our coming to await,
		One more in heaven!

		One less at home!
Chill as the earth-born mist the thought would rise,
And wrap our footsteps round and dim our eyes;
But the bright sunbeam darteth from the skies,
		One more in heaven!


One more at home!
This is not home, where cramped in earthly mould
Our sight of Christ is dim, our love is cold;
But there, where face to face we shall behold,
		Is home and heaven!

		One less on earth!
Its pain, its sorrow, and its toil to share;
One less the pilgrim's daily cross to bear,
One more the crown of ransomed souls to wear,
		At home in heaven!

		One more in heaven!
Another thought to brighten cloudy days,
Another theme for thankfulness and praise,
Another link on high our souls to raise
		To home and heaven!

		One	more at home—
That home where separation cannot be,
That home where none are missed eternally,
Lord Jesus, grant us all a place with Thee,
							S. G. STOCK.


BACKBITING.

     Sisters, this is a habit we all indulge in too
much, and until it is done away with there
never will be unity in our Society; and how do
we expect to prosper if we are not united? If
one pulls one way and another a different way
altogether, we never  can improve in our
Society. Therefore, dear sisters, let us all
make a covenant that at the commencement of
our meetings that we will stop at once, put our
foot on the head of that terrible scorpion which
is working in our hearts, and crush him to
death. Why not break ourselves of this awful
habit? for such it is. We hear a remark
passed about one of our friends, and until we
have a chance to unload ourselves of that bur-
den (for such we think it is), we are not con-
tented. And do we always get the exact truth?
I am afraid not. We think when we hear re-
marks passed that they sound terrible, but
when we go to tell them they have lost their
charm, and we add to make them sound grand
to others, as they had done to us. And for
this one reason we have not been more united
in the past than we have; we are too willing to
pick each other to pieces, too willing to find
fault. Ah, sisters! why not begin now to re-
form? “Better late than never” (but better
never late).
     Alas! if we begin now and make a success
of it the Lord’s blessings will be with us, for
we cannot attain His blessing when we are all
the time backbiting His children who are as
near and dear to Him as we are. We are all
human; there is not one of us but what has
our faults and our failings, and still have good
qualities too; but instead of trying to run them
down, why not speak to them aside, tell them
kindly, and tell them where they did wrong,
and if we know how, show them the right way
to replace their wrong steps? Oh, how much
better they would feel; they would thank us
ten fold, and we would not have to be dodging
around the corners to keep out of their way, so
we could not be accused of anything we would
not like to face.	
     Kind sisters, you, perhaps, will tire of my
writing, but I pray to God our Eternal Father
that He will bless us with peace, union and
strength, that we may work hand in hand, and
be a united band of workers. If we do this I
know we will improve greatly, for improve-
ment should be our motto, and unity be in our
midst.	     Your sister,
			LAURETTE VAN BUREN.


[Column 1]
PROCRASTINATION.

“Procrastination is the very thief of time,” is an
old adage and a very true one. “Never put
 off till to-morrow what ought to be done to-
day.” How often we hear that maxim quoted, 
but we do not always practice it.

[Column 2]
	﻿Every day has its duties and cares and we
should not neglect the duties of to-day but
perform each in its time and season, for we
know not what to-morrow will bring. Life is
uncertain. We do not know how long
we will be permited to remain
here. To-morrow for us may never dawn
in mortality. It would make us very unhappy
to be called from our labors to another sphere,
knowing that our work was unfinished, that
we had neglected our duties, and failed to im-
prove opportunities for improvement and for
doing good, that had presented themselves to
us.
	Secretaries should be prompt in their duties
and their books posted and make their reports
in good season, for it takes no more time to
copy a set of minutes, or make a report to-day,
than it will to-morrow and it avoids anxiety and
saves hurry and confusion. We should learn
while young, that there is a time and place for
everything, and learn to have everything in its
place and perform every duty in
its time and season; and not let them accumu-
late on our hands like a stack of unread news-
papers. By reading one paper every day it
is quite easy to keep even but let them accumu-
late for a week and it will take quite an effort,
and considerable time to read them all and get
even again. Let us try to be more prompt, and
persevere a little more and if obstacles meet us
let us find a way to surmount them, and let not
the sly old thief, called procrastination, rob us
of our laurels and let us always remember that
none can wear laurels in our Father's work, ex-
cept those who earn them.
	M. E. TEASDALE.

	Even in New Hampshire women are coming
into office. Mrs. Susan L. Hall has been ap-
pointed by Judge Knapp clerk of the court at
Great Falls.
	Mrs. Alice Green, widow of the distinguished
historian, and herself responsible for much of
the work in his last book, “The Conquest of
England,” is preparing an exhaustive study of
Henry II., which will appear next year.
The popular Swedish novelist, Madame
Emilie Hygare Carlen many of whose ro-
mances have been issued in English transla-
tions, is about to publish her memoirs in three
volumes, under the title of the “Aftermath,
from the career of an Octagenarian writer.”
The veteran author has just entered her eighty-
first year.
	Florence Nightingale, the heroine of the
Crimea, is thought to be dying in England
from the effects of an old hospital fever con-
tracted in 1856. There is a general falling off
of the system, a wasting away from the effects
of her perilous labors during the days in
which she devoted her life to the soldiers
wounded in battle.
	Felix Regamy, a Parisian artist well known
in Boston, has made the interesting discovery,
that a French plaster molder named Hubard
has in his possession a full-sized bronze copy of
the marble statue of Washington, by Houdon,
which he will sell for $800. M. Regamy sug-
ests in the Paris Figaro that the United
tates government purchase the bronze statue
and present it to the Gallery of the Louvre.
	Three million women in the United States
work for money. Of these 600,000 are agri-
cultural laborers—mainly in the cotton fields
of the south; 640,000 are employed in manu-
factories, while 530,000 in the laundries of the
country insist that the “Chinese must go;” 280,-
000 are milliners and 200,000 find employment
as dressmakers; 60,000 earn their bread in the
tailorshops and 690,000 are sales-women,
teachers, telegraph operators, typewriters, book-
keepers, typesetters, and nurses. There are
2,500 female physicians.


92						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 15, 1887.


HEBER C. KIMBALL.
A LETTER, FROM HIS HISTORIAN TO THE PUBLIC.

To the Friends of the Late President Heber C.
	Kimball:
	In the forthcoming history of my grandfather,
which I am engaged in writing, and which will
probably appear some time in the winter or early
spring, it is my intention to devote a chapter,aside
from the main narrative,to anecdotes and personal
reminiscences, illustrative of his life and charac-
ter.
	With a view to making this as interesting as
possible, I hereby invite all the old-time friends
and acquaintances of President Kimball who may
so desire, to contribute to this chapter, believing
that in their possession are doubtless many choice
gems of word and incident pertaining to his event-
ful life, which have not yet found their way into
print, and are not noted in his journal, and which,
unless now secured, may in a few years be entire-
ly lost to history.
	The anecdotes should be crisp, brief and to the
point, and will be published in the book with
their writers' names, unless otherwise desired.
Early attention will greatly oblige. Please ad-
dress as below.
			Very respectfuly,
				ORSON F. WHITNEY,
					P. O. Box 357,
						Salt Lake City,
								Utah.
	Nov. 16, 1887.


[Column 1]
			DAYS OF TRIAL.
	The remarkable occurrences taking place here day
after day sound a note of warning to all who are
not wide awake in the performance of every duty
to renew their diligence, and be more earnest,
more prayerful and watchful than ever and take
heed to their ways, that they may be able to en-
dure the days of trial that are now just at the
doors. They have been talked of and prophe-
sied of in public and in private, these days of
testing, and that but few would be able to endure,
and yet the actual circumstances that would bring
about these peculiar experiences were not under-
stood in the least. Whoever thought Congress
would have passed such unprecedented laws and 
strenuous measures, as have been passed by that
body without any,or very little opposition, against
the Mormon people, and enforced rigorously
and although the enforcement of these cruel and
harsh measures has brought so much hardship it
does not seem to satisfy the craving desires of the
enemies of the Saints, but the officers of the
government seem more and more anxious to bring
severe and more cruel hardships upon the people.
So long as they submit patiently, instead of think-
ing "it is enough," they are ready to heap more
persecution and prosecution, and make the bur-
den heavier and more grievous to be borne. They
[Column 2]
are not content with breaking up families and des-
olating happy homes, fining and imprisoning men
who have sought to worship God with clean hands
and pure hearts,but still pursue"with a zeal worthy
of a better cause;" the patient endurance and long
suffering of this people under a series of trials of
the most harassing character and outrages perpe-
trated in the name of the government, will indeed
be a problem for the unbeliever to solve. Strange,
in this land of religious liberty where churches
and denominations of all kinds and all beliefs are
allowed perfect freedom that the property of the
Mormon Church should be seized upon. It can-
not be because of the immense wealth, if so the
Roman Catholic and Episcopal Church would be
subjected to the same indignity. The Church
property of the Mormons has been accumulated
from the tithes and offerings of the people who
actually believe in the literal translation of that
scripture which says, "bring your tithes and your
offerings into the storehouse of the Lord and see
if I will not pour you out a blessing that there
shall not be room to receive it." And for these
things are the Latter-day Saints persecuted. But
they and their enemies are all in the hands of one
who sees not as man sees and whose ways are not
as man's ways, and He will surely punish those
who oppress the innocent, the widow and the
orphan, for whom, and other laudable purposes,
these tithes and offerings were given.
	The Lord will pour out of His indignation upon
the wicked as He has said and His hand will not be
stayed when His judgements begin.
	 Already strifes and uprisings and riots and
threatenings are heard, and it would be well to
heed the warnings contained in the word of the
Lord to this people and be prepared for the evil
day which is just at hand.

	One of the great events of the present day was
the execution of the Anarchists in Chicago on the
11th of November 1877. Whether the matter will
end there remains for the future to determine. It
is the general opinion of the most conservative
people, that there will be serious difficulty yet with
this socialistic element, if not in Chicago in other
cities further east. They are dangerous every-
where, working in secret and in the dark, not es-
tablishiug themselves openly, but in various ways
creating discord and strife between the employer
and the employed. Sowing the seeds of disunion
and strife where before confidence existed; and
making such an intricate network of complica-
tions as will puzzle the nation much more, and be
far more difficult to handle and to unravel than
the "Mormon" question which the goveriment con-
siders such a knotty problem. "Mormonism" has
brought into the country an element of in-
dustry and enterprise, a people who believe
in labor, and who discountenance emphatic-
ally every tendency to discord and strife,
or opposition to peace and good govern-
ment. It is deplorable indeed to think that such
secret combinations against the peace and pros-
perity of the American people, should exist and
find followers in the midst of the great cities of
the United States. And the end is not yet. What
developments of this nature and disturbances may
arise no one knows, but the fulfillment of the pre-
dictions of ancient and modern prophets should
warn the nations everywhere to prepare for the
events that are to herald in the coming of the Son
of Man upon the earth.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	At the Y. M. M. I. A. Conference of Weber
Stake, held in Ogden, Nov. 13th, 1877, Bishop O.
F. Whitney delivered an address in the evening,
which, it is stated, held the large audience spell-
bound for two hours. The Ogden Herald says:
"The meeting in the evening, as in the afternoon,


was very large, many not being able to gain ad-
mittance. Bishop Orson F. Whitney, after the
opening exercises, occupied the time with an elo-
quent address full of wise counsel. He elicited
the interest of the large audience as only few
speakers could, and his instructions will long be
remembered as among the choicest that could be
given. A synopsis would not do justice to him t
and therefore we refrain from giving a more ex-
tended notice.”
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this city, on
Thursday, December 8th, next, commencing at
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. A full and punctual attendance
from all parts of the county is requested. On the
following day, Friday, December 9th, the Y. L. M.
I. A. of this Stake will hold conference, and on
Saturday, December 10th, the Primary Associa-
tions will hold their conference. It is earnestly
desired by the presidents and officers of these
several conferences that the meetings should be
well attended, and an interest manifested for the
general good. A cordial invitation is extended to
all who desire to see these organizations prosper,
to come and hear the instructions given. As this
is the time for verbal reports, it may be more in-
teresting than when written reports are read.
Presidents of Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A.
are expected to represent the condition of the re-
spective Society or Association over which they
preside.
	MRS. MARILLA M. RICKER, of Washington,
has been visiting this city the past three of four
weeks. She has, we believe, enjoyed the sight-
seeing and association with friends here whom
she had met and formed a friendship for in the
east, notwithstanding they were Mormons. Mrs.
Ricker, though not a professed Christian, has
many excellent qualities of heart and soul, as well
as a superior education and general knowledge of
the world, and stands high in her profession (the
law); was admitted to the bar of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia in 1882, and
was subjected to a very searching examination as
to her knowledge of law. There were 17 male
applicants at the time. The Committee, in recom-
mending her admission, reported that she stood
at the head of the list of applicants, and was es-
pecially versed in the complex common law rules
governing real estate titles. “Her practice has
been principally in the criminal courts of Washing-
ton. She visits prisons, and does much philan-
thropic work. In our next issue we propose to
make a more extended notice of this noted woman
lawyer and her visit to Utah.


LETTER FROM SANDWICH ISLANDS.
Laie, Oahu, Hawaiian Islands,
Oct. 22nd 1887,
To Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, President of
	the Relief Society of the Chnrch of Jesus
	Christ of Latter-day Saints:
DEAR SISTER:
	Not being supplied with blanks to forward you
a correct report of our work in this part of the
vineyard we are under the necessity of writing you
the condition of the Relief Societies of these
islands, which we are pleased to say speak favor-
ably for themselves at present. There are 22 so-
cieties in all, in which there are 514 members.
Meetings are generally held weekly, working and
testimony meetings alternately. The Societies of
this island are far in advance of those on the
other islands owing to our direct and constant la-
bor among them, as you are doubtless aware that
these poor natives when left by themselves, soon
fall into slothfulness and sin. We are laboring
as energetically as possible to introduce all kinds
of useful work among them. And in order to


make this pleasant and interesting, we purpose
having a fair before our next conference.
Previous to the introduction of this work in our
meetings, their only work has been to assist the
missionaries, donate to the Temple, tithing, etc.
There are few poor among them. Owing to the
delightfulness of the climate, but little clothing is
required, and when the earth will yield their sus-
tenance (poi) they are never in want. Hence, it
has been thought wise to call on them to assist
in these different objects; and since our last con-
ference they have donated four hundred and
eighty-six dollars and twenty-five cents ($486.25,)
to these purposes. We will be pleased to receive
such instructions as you see fit to give us with re-
gard to our labors here for we realize our inexpe-
rience in the duties resting upon us; but we are
very desirous of fulfilling our missions hon-
orably among this people. We will also be
pleased to receive blanks for our next conference
report, that we may better know what is required
of us. You will also favor us by stating the price
per hundred of having blanks printed. The price
of printing here necessitates us making our own,
and if advisable we will send home to have them
printed. Ever praying for the welfare of our
sisters in Zion who are unitedly laboring for the
upbuilding of God’s Kingdom upon the earth.
We have the honor to be,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			LIBBIE NOALL, President,
			LUCY M. KING,
			NELLIE BBESLEY, Counselors.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	﻿PRIMARY MEETING AND FAIR.
	We had the pleasure of attending a special
meeting of the P. A. of South Cottonwood
in company with Sister E. C. Clawson, on
Thursday, Nov. 10th, at 11 o’clock a.m., Mrs.
Elizabeth Davis presiding. There was quite a
good attendance of the children, and a pro-
gramme had been prepared for the occasion,
consisting of choice selections of recitations
and songs, which were well rendered. The
meetings in that ward have to be held in dis-
tricts during the winter season, as the distances
are too great for the children to come together
in the ward house; so previous to the change
this special meeting and Fair was held to en-
courage the little ones.
	After the programme was finished, Prest.
Davis asked some questions, that were promptly
answered by the children, and Sisters E. C.
Clawson, E. B. Wells, M. Rawlins and E Davis
each spoke a few minutes, encouraging the
children in the good work in which they were
engaged, and impressing upon them the neces-
sity of obedience, honesty, truthfulness, per-
severance and every virtue that would pre-
pare them for usefulness in the kingdom of God
upon the earth.
	After the close of the meeting excellent re-
freshments were served in the adjoining hall,
where preparations had been made for the
Fair. The Primary children had been assisted
by the Young Ladies' Association in getting
articles for the Fair, and it was a very good
showing. There were on exhibition by the
little boys, vegetables of several kinds, all very
large and of good quality; also little articles
made by ingenious and skillful hands, chairs,
tables, wheelbarrow, and other useful things,
pencil drawings and so on; needle work in
abundance of almost every variety, plain sew-
ing and fancy work, embroidery, lace work
crochet, plain and fancy knitting, wool flowers,
hair flowers, a miniature house cut and covered
with sea-weed, quite picturesque, by the girls.
A young Brother Tipton had made quite a
unique little microscope, and was showing a 
musquito under it, which amused the children,
and even grown people, the tiny legs, horns
and teeth assuming such large proportions.
[Column 2]
﻿There were a number of curiosities from New.
Zealand on exhibition, brought by Bro. E L.
Davis, quantities of ferns, some artistically
arranged and framed, and shells of various
sorts and sizes; the most peculiar was one to
which clung a long heavy branch of yellow
sea-weed, which resembled somewhat a man’s
beard.
	A large frame contained the photo’s of fifty-
five Maories; a brief description of the picture
is given here, and below, also, a description of
a Maori village. a photograph of which was
exhibited at the Fair, and last the Kauri tree,
which gives employment to many people in
digging for the gum, which is one of the chief
exports of the country.

		"THE MAORI PHOTO'S.
	"In the middle of the frame is Prest. Ihaia
Hopn, a distinguished Maori chief, and first
among the Maoris to receive the holy Priest-
hood, and President of the first branch, Te
Ore Ore. He died firm in the Gospel, April
27,1886. On his left is his wife, Erihapata;
in the centre of the bottom is Piripi Te Maari,
Chief of the Rakai Whakairi Tribe, and
President of the Kohunni Branch; on his left
is Sister Horiana Hopn, daughter of Ihana
Hopn, in ball dress; in centre of second row is
Paratane Tui, President, and Aporo Kumeroa
First and Arapata Te Maari Second Counselors
of the Waitapu Branch, and the others are
brothers and sisters in the Gospel, whose gener-
ous hearts and hospitable acts are not to be ex-
celled on mother earth.

		“THE MAORI VILLAGE
	"Is Taranaki, the largest native village in
New Zealand, and the home of Ti Witi, the
great Maori Prophet, who claims to be equal
with Christ, and was visited in March, 1885,
by Elder Amasa Aldrich and myself, as the
first two Mormon Elders to present to him the
only true Gospel. On that occasion we made
a trip of 600 miles in six weeks, mostly on foot,
and slept seven nights on cold mother earth,
and we were blest of the Lord, and trust the
seed we in our humble way endeavored to
plant will yet spring forth and bring rich fruit
to the honor and glory of God.
	“The ferns are a few of the 160 kinds to be
found in Maoriland, or New Zealand. Fern
Alley is one of the lovliest places in the world.

		“THE KAURI TREE.
	"Stateliest of all the forest giants of New Zea-
land is the Kauri Tree, with its crown of
powerful branches twined into a dark, dense
green roof, and attains to the height of 140 to
150 feet, and even 200 feet Its trunk and
branches produce an abudance of resin or
Kauri gum, and which is found in the earth
from the surface to twelve feet deep, and affords
employment for some 10,000 to 12,000 people
in the neighborhood and north of Auckland,
which is sent away by the ship-load, and used
for varnish, etc., as well as many beautiful
ornaments, watch chains, brooches, eardrops,
etc. Everything in the New Zealand forest is
evergreen, and it is lovely and grand.
				"Very respectfully,
					"Eurini Ruihi Reweti,
					"Edwin Lewis Davis."
	The children and young people certainly de-
serve great praise for the very interesting arti-
cles produced and made, as also for the
arrangement of the whole Fair, which pre-
sented an attractive appearance. We ought
not to omit mentioning the cooking, bread,
cakes in great variety, fruits, jellies and pre-
serves, in fact there seemed to be a collection
of the useful and beautiful, plain and orna-
mental. These little Fairs must be a stimulus
to industry and improvement. Where among
any people have they such encouragement for
[Column 3]
all, for it is well known the Primary Associa-
tion takes in all the little folks without any
distinction being made of rich or poor, who will
come and be taught under the direction of
those who preside.


INTERESTING VISIT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER WELLS:—Since President
Anna Ivins returned from the city she requested
me to send you a short sketch of our trip
around the St. George Stake:
	September 29th Sisters Mary B. Eyring, Ann
C. Woodbury of Relief Society, Mary G.
Whitehead of Mutuals and Julia H. Ivins of
the Primaries, left for the Santa Clara. At 3
o’clock met with the Relief Society and Young
Ladies together, and afterwards met with the
Primary; had a very good time, and hope a
profitable one to all. We spent the night with 
Sister Ensign. 
	The 30th we traveled on to Gunlock. At 3
o’clock met with Primary; Sister Ella Leavitt
resigned, as she had so many small children she
could not attend; Sister Lizzie Hunt was put
in Second Counselor to Sister Emma Holt.
Met with Relief Society; had a very good meet-
ing.
	October 1st traveled on to Pine Valley, and
met with the Primary, Sister Ellen Jones pre-
siding. On the 2nd met in the afternoon; the
Bishop administered the sacrament, and turned
the meeting over to the sisters. In the evening
met with the Mutual. Sister Lucy Gardner
resigned, and Sister Emma Burgess chosen as 
Second Counselor to Sister Julia Cox. We
had a day long to be remembered.
	3rd went on to Hamblin; had dinner at Sister
Canfields, and traveled on to Hebron. At 4
o’clock held meeting; very few people are in
this place, owing to the water being gone. They
have very nice brick houses, but are discour-
aged at keeping up such a long flume; they
think of moving to the water. A good feeling
prevailed. We traveled on to Bishop Terry’s
Ranch, and stayed all night, where we were
hospitably entertained. 
	The 4th we traveled to Panacca. Here we
divided, part going to Bishop Lee’s and the
others to President Wadsworth’s. This settle-
ment has had a good deal of sickness in the
shape of measles and whooping cough. 5th
met with Primary in the forenoon and with
the Relief Society and Young Ladies in the
afternoon; had a very good time.
	The 6th we traveled on to Bro. Terry’s Ranch
in the morning. The 7th found snow on the 
ground; had a very cold drive to Hamblin; held
meeting in the afternoon; had a very good time;
very few people in this settlement. 8th went
on to Pinto; snow most of the way; held meet-
ing at President Jane Harrison’s, owing to the
meeting house being under repair. Met with
Bro. D. H. Cannon, who encouraged us very
much in our labors. Traveled on to Harmony;
snow near 3 feet deep on the side of the road.
On the 9th met with the Sabbath School; sisters
talked to the children. In the afternoon met
with the R. S. and Y. L; had a very good
time.  10th traveled on to Toquerville; met
with Relief Society and Young Ladies; also the
Primary. There is a bright lot of children
here, and Sister Adelaide Savage takes great
interest in them.  11th went on to Rockville.
12th met with the Primary in the forenoon;
here is a very interesting Primary, and shows 
the energy of Sister Lizzie Smith. In the
afternoon met with Relief Society. The young
ladies of this place are all married; some from
Springdale and Shonesbury met us here; these
settlements have had a good deal of sickness.
13th traveled on to Grafton and held meeting.
This settlement is small; most of the people were
out; we had an excellent meeting; they have a


very good meeting house; it is not quite finished.
We traveled on to Virgin. At 2 o’clock met
with Relief Society; the President here is very
feeble; it is Sister John Parker; Counselor
Workman presided; met with Primary at 4
o’clock, President Pratt presiding; had a very
good meeting.
	On the 14th we went on to Toquerville; ate
dinner at Sister Savage’s; her husband is in
prison for taking care of his family. Went on
to Leeds, where we held meeting at early candle
light. 15th traveled on to Washington; had
meeting at 1 o’clock with Relief Society; at 3
o’clock met with Primary; at 4 with Young
Ladies; had very good meetings, and a good
feeling prevailed; arrived in St George about 6
in the evening, having been 17 days from home.
We were glad to find all well at home, and
trust we have done some good in urging the
Saints to their duty. We traveled about three
hundred miles.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion I re-
main,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
				ANN C. WOODBURY.
St. George, Nov. 4, 1887.


94	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

SUMMIT STAKE.
	The Summit Stake Relief Society held their 
conference at Kamas, September 29th, 1887.
Meeting commenced at 10 a.m., M. J. Atwood,
Stake President, presiding. Singing by the
choir. Prayer was offered, and the choir sang
again.  The minutes of the last conference
and reports from the different branches were
read and accepted.
	There were on the stand Sisters Zina D. H. 
Young, of Salt Lake, for the R. S., Sister
Rogers, of Farmington, for the Primaries,
the Stake Presidency of R. S., presidents of
Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations, Prest.
W. W. Cluff and others, and a very good
attendance in the hall.
	Much good instruction was given by the sis-
ters and President Cluff, which was well appre-
ciated and enjoyed by those present.  Arrange-
ments were made for another Fair for the bene-
fit of the Summit Stake House, to be held in
May next at Coalville.  The reports from the
several branches show them to be in good work-
ing order.
	On Friday, Sept. 30th, the Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference was held at the same place, occupy-
ing the whole day, which was very interesting,
and they arranged to join the Relief Society in
the Fair.
	The Primary Conference was also held at the
same place, on Saturday, Oct 1st., occupying
the whole day.  The services were interspersed
with questions, which were creditably answered
by the children.  It was the fullest attendance
and the most interesting Primary Conference
ever held in Summit Stake.
	The three days’ conference was a feast seldom
it ever enjoyed before by the sisters of Kamas.
The blessings they received from the sisters of
Salt Lake Valley will long be remembered.
	S. F. ATWOOD.

TOOELE STAKE.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of
Tooele Stake convened in the meeting house at
Tooele, Sept. 11 and 12, 1887, Counselor Emily
Warburton presiding, as Prest. Hunter had
not arrived from Grantsville in time for the
morning meeting.  There were present from
Salt Lake City, Sisters S. M. Kimball and M. 
W. Snow, also Prest. Gowans and Counselor
Jane Eastham of Tooele Stake; Bishop Atkin
and other brethren.  Presidents of branches
of R. S. in the stake, Sisters Jeanette Dela-
mere, Tooele, Hannah Burridge, St. John’s,

[Column 2]
Jane Adamson, Lake View. After the usual
exercises and reading of minutes and reports
Sister Kimball addressed the meeting, gave ex-
cellent instruction to the sisters in reference to
their duties and pointed out in a clear and
forcible manner the benefit of being thus organ-
ized.  Advised the observance of order and 
urged the sisters to be charitable and for-
giving, helpful and energetic and live near
to the Lord so as to know when we are doing
right.
	Sister Snow spoke of her recent visit to
Mexico and made many good remarks concern-
ing the Relief Society its organization and
benefits, rejoiced that we had the oppor-
tunity of helping to redeem and happify each
other through our labors and efforts as a society,
and closed by saying that our religion was
worth making any sacrifice for.
	Prest. Hunter having come in excused her-
self for being late, and spoke of not feeling well
in health, said she had passed through a se-
vere trial of late, a great fire had destroyed
much of their property, barns, hay and so on;
felt she had not attended to her society duties
of late as she should but intended to in the
future.
	The Presidents of the several wards re-
ported and Bishop Atkin of Tooele Ward
made a few good remarks encouraging the 
sisters, and endorsed all that had been said,
thought the Relief Society a great help.
	In the afternoon the P. A. of the stake held
a conference, Mrs. Sarah Hale presiding.  There
were songs and recitations well rendered, show-
ing that President Jane Bowen had taken great
pains to teach the little folks.
	In the evening the Young Ladies Associa-
tions held a conference, Sister Ann Tate presid-
ing.  After the perliminary exercises minutes
and reports were read and Sisters Kimball and
Snow addressed the young people on suitable 
subjects; President Gowans also gave good in-
struction and the meeting was an enjoyable 
and interesting one.
     Sunday morning the sisters visited the Sab-
bath School and Sisters Kimball and Snow ad-
dressed the children, giving good counsel and
urging them onward in the performance of
duty.
     In the afternoon the Relief Society Confer-
ence was continued, and the sisters from Salt
Lake each spoke a short time in an intelligent
and interesting manner.
     We thank our sisters very much for paying 
us this visit and for the good advice we have
received.  May God bless them and those who
visit us from time to time to encourage and
help us is my prayer.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec.
ONEIDA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Oneida
Stake of Zion was held in Franklin, Sept 25th,
1887, at 10 a.m.  Opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer.  The minutes of
the previous district conference were read; also
the reports for the past six months, which were
very encouraging to the sisters.
     Prest. Elizabeth Fox was pleased to see so
many out, this being the first general conference
of Relief Society held in this Stake: “And in-
asmuch as we have the Spirit of the Lord we
will have a good time.” Requested the presi-
dents of the various branches to give verbal 
reports, which was done with but few excep-
tions, showing that most of them were in a 
prosperous condition, after which a song was
sung by Sister Martha Robinson.
     Sister Sarah Richards, of Mormon Ward, in-
structed the sisters to rear their children in the
ways of the Lord, that they will be true and
faithful and obey the Gospel in its fullest sense.
Exhorted the boys to be truthful and honest
and they would be good men; gave the same

[Column 3]
advice to the girls. “When we are sick we
should send for the Elders, as the prayers of
the faithful will heal the sick.  We should be
peace-makers, and not heed idle gossip, but set a
good example before all.”
	Sister Ann Hale, Counselor, was pleased to
see so many happy faces present; was pleased
with the reports. “The sisters should inform
their minds as much as possible, using an hour
each day for that purpose.  All are willing to
help the Bishops in all that they might ask.
Children should be respectful to their parents.”
Felt that the ward teachers should visit us
oftener than they do; made other interesting 
remarks.
	Sister Mary Hawks, Counselor, was pleased
to meet with the sisters in the first general con-
ference, although there were a great many
wards a long way off, so it was impossible for
all to attend; still we may have a good time.
It takes all our time to beautify our homes and
to inform our minds; our husbands should help
in training our children in proper ways, as the
mothers cannot work hard all day and study
at night.  We should attend our meetings so
we can be wise in watching the company our
children keep.  Let our practice and theory
go together to the protection of our little ones,
as they should enjoy all the privileges before
them.  We need the blessings of the Lord at
all times.  Hoped the sisters would feel well
paid for coming out.
     Bishop Wm. Parkinson, of Preston, would
much rather listen to the sisters than occupy
any time.  Would put his trust in the Lord,
that he might be able to say something that
would edify the congregation. “The Gospel is
the same to-day as it was anciently.  It takes
the same work to-day as it did then to gain the
same blessings.  We should love our neighbors
as ourselves, and we would have a heaven on 
earth.  We should lay aside all our imperfec-
tions and follies, and not allow the adversary
to gain power over us, but strive to do right at 
all times; as we have to endure the scorn and
ridicule from all, it is hard to continue this
battle, and the obstacles can be removed by
helping each other.  I love all that are honest
and true, no matter what their religion.  Let
us be upright and honorable, so we can have
the full flow of the Spirit of the Lord.”
	Bishop S. R. Parkinson said, “We should be
charitable to all, and give good counsel freely
to all.  We must be sure and not vilify our
neighbors, not speak of their bad actions, and
when we are old we may be able to think that
we have been peace-makers.  May we put the
counsel in practice that we have heard.”  In-
voked the blessing of the Lord upon us.
     Singing by the choir.  Benediction was pro-
nounced by Thomas Durant.
	2 p.m.: Meeting opened with singing and
prayer.  Sacrament was administered, and
Sister Adeline Barber, of Cache Stake, said,
“The Relief Society was organized for our bene-
fit, as we are enabled to stand up and bear our
testimonies, and help bear off the kingdom of
our God.  As our brethren have to go on mis-
sions, we have our children to bring up in a 
proper manner.  The Lord has shown the sis-
ters that celestial marriage is right, and we
need to be humble before the Lord, and be an
instrument in His hands in doing good.  How
long would this persecution hang around us, if
we were united and pure?  If we would live 
this principle in purity it would be no trial to
us.  Let us be faithful in all things, and we
will have joy in our labors.  It is our duty to 
be kind to those who have obeyed this law.
We must put away the styles and fashions of
the world, when we come to the Temple of the
Lord; dress plain and we will not be reproved.”
Song by Sister Martha Robinson, entitled,
“Who’s on the Lord’s side, who?”
	Sister Rogers said: “The Relief Society is a


great organizaton, as it enables us to visit the
poor and needy, and those that are in trouble.
We should give all that we have to the Lord.
Whatever we sow the same we shall reap. Let
us all be cheerful in whatever we are called
upon to do, as we are blessed with many things.
If we ask we shall receive,” etc.
	Bro. Thos. Durant hoped the instructions we
had received would remain on our minds, and
we would put them into practice. We should
set ourselves in order, that we might turn the
key to our own benefit, as it is the most im-
portant matter that pertains unto us.”
	Sister Fox endorsed the instructions that
had been given; was pleased with the reports.
“We have a great deal to encourage us, and
also discourage us, but we should depend on
the Lord.” Gave general counsel to all;
thought it would be well to hold these general
conferences every six months. Desired the
blessings of the Lord to attend her in all
things.
	Conference adjourned sine die. Singing.
Benediction by S. R. Parkinson. 
	ELIZABETH FOX, Prest.
	JOSEPHINE BRAWLEY, Ass’t Sec.


95	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿MRS. FREDERIC HILL.

By the death of Mrs. Frederic Hill this Re-
view loses one of its earliest supporters and
most faithful friends. She died on the 22nd of
August at the advanced age of eighty-four.
But although she passed fourscore years, her
old age brought only increased wisdom and
happiness instead of the psalmist’s labor and
sorrow. She suffered a little latterly from in-
firmity of body, but the brightness of her in-
tellect and the keenness of her sympathy re-
mained undiminished to the last, and she passed
from this life to the next without suffering, full
of faith and hope, and surrounded by those she
most loved.
	Mrs. Hill was, as most of our readers know,
the wife of Mr. Frederic Hill, one of five
brothers all well-known in public life. Sir
Rowland Hill is the best known, but Mr.
Frederic Hill, as Inspector of Prisons for
Scotland, and afterwards one of the Secre-
taries of the Post-Office, and still more as one
who has devoted his life to the public good,
will long bear an honored name. Mrs. Hill’s
maiden name was Martha Cowper. She was
born at Enfield in 1803. Her father was a
man of scientific tastes who, inheriting proper-
ty from her grandfather, retired early from
business and devoted himself to his labor-
atory and his books. Nine children were born
to him of whom the subject of the present
paper was the seventh. At least one other of
the children inherited the father’s love of
science, and became in after life well known as
Professor Cowper, who invented the first work-
ing printing machine, and whose classes at
King’s College in chemistry and applied
science were always crowded, and are still re-
membered in the college. It was a happy un-
eventful childhood at the Enfield house, and
in due course Martha Cowper went to school
with the others. But female education at the
beginning of this century was at a low ebb,
and her great store of information, her strong
love of books, and accurate knowledge of
natural history were due rather to individual
work and home influence than to school teach-
ing. She used to illustrate the state of female
education in those days by an amusing anec-
dote. One of her schoool fellows, a girl of
eighteen, was a married woman, and had been
sent by her husband to learn to be educated,
and Martha Cowper used to help her in the
composition of letters to her husband which,
notwithstanding this assistance, were generally
returned with many corrections.
	A tour in Scotland with her scientific
brother, when she was nineteen, was Miss

[Column 2]
Cowper’s first experience of a wider world.
They went to the Island of Bute amongst
other places, and her sympathy with her fel-
lows was as keen then as in later years.
Twenty years afterwards when she visited the
island with her husband, an old woman recog-
nized her as she was comforting a crying child,
and said, “I am sure you must be Miss Cowper
by the way you talk to that child.” Space
does not allow us to do more than refer either
at this or a later period of her life, to the
numberless instances of the kindness of her
heart that are remembered in the family, but
one instance is worthy of special mention at
this stage. When Poland was fighting for
freedom and all England was watching the
struggle, Martha Cowper and her sister, pocket
money running short, melted down a silver tea-
pot and sent the proceeds to aid the Poles in
their grand fight for national life. The great
issues of contemporary history al-
ways deeply moved her. The French Re-
volutions of 1830 and 1848, the Crimean War,
the American struggle for Union against Se-
cession, the Franco German War, were all
eagerly followed by her with the interest of a
true liberal, who always hoped that good
might come out of the terrible evils of war.
But modern politics—though she followed
them just as closely—did not win her entire
sympathy. Her fresh nature, only desirous of
good; was impatient of all the compromises
and concessions which the politician of to-day
thinks necessary to progress.
	Both parents died in Martha’s childhood, and
on their death the children were placed in
charge of an aunt living in London. Under
the influence of a large library, Miss Cowper’s
taste for books developed into a passion for
reading of every kind, and she remained an
omnivorous reader for the rest of her life. Her
judgment of books was always sound and her
criticisms keen and suggestive. Though often
she seemed to dip and skim in somewhat butter-
fly fashion, she always seized and retained the
pith of the book she had in hand. But her
self-culture, remarkable as it was, was subor-
dinated to her interest in others, an interest
that was unfailingly shown in kindness and
help and encouragement, and all what she
would call “selfish” work was set aside when
any good work was on hand. One of the
great events of her young life was a winter in
Paris in 1825. She was, as she says in one of
her notes, “alternately struck with the beauty
of Paris and its inconveniences.” The grand
palaces, the beautiful gardens, the brilliant
shops, the rush of daily life, and cheerful as-
pect of the population were all delightful to
her. But she adds, “the absence of the path-
ways and open drains in every street were most
unpleasant for pedestrians.” She witnessed an
ancient historical custom carried out for the
last time. She saw Charles X dine public as
the Kings of France were wont to do under
the ancien regime. She and her friends ob-
tained tickets, there was a great crowd of
gaily dressed people in the ante-chamber, the
doors of the Presence Chamber were thrown
open, and the sightseers were allowed to ad-
vance to a cordon only three feet from the roy-
al table where the King, the Duchess of Berri,
and the Duchess of Angoulême were dining off
a fish dinner (it was Friday) “amid a blaze of 
light, and with lovely music.” One of the
three royal diners, as Martha Cowper points one
in her notes, had been in the horrors of the
great French Revolution, and had shared with
her royal parents the imprisonment in the
Temple till their execution. Sight seeing did
not take up all the Paris time. Many days
were spent in visiting charitable institutions,
and a visit to the Deaf and Dumb establish-
ment was long remembered.
	Our space only permits of a mere sketch of
Mrs. Hill’s life, and we must pass over some

[Column 3]
uneventful years of quiet goodness to come to
the first and almost her last appearance as an
authoress. In 1833 she published in conjunc-
tion with the late Mr. William Ellis, a series of
stories and papers on familiar topics for
children under the title of “The Parents’ Cabi-
net.” The work was to her surprise a very
great success, and although it has now passed
into the hands of other publishers, it still has
a good sale under another title. The story
entitled “Frances Meadows; or Traits of
Character,” has especial interest to those who
knew Mrs. Hill, because the incidents related
really happened in her school, and the Frances
Meadows was herself.
	All the natural history papers are hers and
many of the tales. She used to tell a pretty
story of how she sent the first tale “Harry the
'Shrimper,” to her Collaborateur. Mr. Ellis for
approval. She held him in much reverence,
as well as esteem, and his critical fiat was to
her a judgment beyond appeal. “Well, my
dear," he said, when she saw him, “I cannot
conceive how you could write such a story
—” “There,” burst in Miss Cowper, “Mrs.
Ellis should not have shown it you, I told her
to send it back if it was too bad.” “My dear
young lady,” continued Mr. Ellis taking her
hand, “you should let me finish my sentences.
I was going on to say, ‘without your having
found out long ago your power of “story tell-
ing.” ’ ” It was not only Mr. Ellis who ap-
proved her work, good critic as he was; a
much better than he, the great Miss Edgeworth
herself with whom Mrs. Hill often corres-
ponded, wrote to express her approval and ad-
miration in most unreserved terms. Miss
Edgeworths’s criticisims were long and most
elaborate, and include valuable suggestions as
to the best form of children’s books; but we
have only space for one sentence as a specimen
of her appreciation of this particular work.
“I ought,” she says, “to be very jealous and en-
vious of you, my dear Miss Cowper, it it were
true that such evil feelings were always ex-
cited by the fear or the certainty of being sur-
passed, for assuredly I think you have sur-
passed me in my own line, or in that which I
wished to make my line.” These were most
gratifying words to receive from the authoress
of such tales for the young as “Forester” or
“Lazy Laurence;” but proud and happy as
they made Mrs. Hill, they did not give her
more pleasure than she subsequently found in
her distribution of all her profits in handsome
presents to her friends and children. Her keenest
pleasure always lay in adding to the pleasure
of those around her.
	Mrs. Hill’s marriage took place in 1840. Her
husband was then Inspector of Prisons for
Scotland, and they lived for some years in Ed-
inburgh. Mrs. Hill’s life in the northern capi-
tal was a very happy and useful one. Socially
she had the pick of what was, intellectually
speaking, one of the best societies in the world,
and she formed friendships then which were
possessions for life. Such men as John Hill
Burton, the two Coombes, Mr. Nimmo, James
Simpson, the two Chambers; such women as
Mrs. Fletcher and Miss Sterling Graham, were
amongst her friends. But she never allowed
the pleasures of society to interfere with the
work of her life. She went the round of the
prisons with her husband, helped in all his
many schemes of reform, and stopped many a
a career of crime by her kind help and en-
couragement to better courses. She used to
follow her prison friends’ subsequent career, and
had many stories of their success in honest
labor. She was fond of the saying of one man
who attributed his change to the Prison Ma-
tron, who, he said, “so mithered him that he
could not go wrong.” And she would repeat
too late for me to mend, but I hope my poor
children will be taught better.”
	She was a strong and very early advocate of


[Column 1]

substitution of useful work for treadmill labor
in prisons, and she rejoiced when her husband
was able to introduce this reform in the prisons
under his charge. Working overtime, as a
means by which prisoners could earn a little
money for themselves, was an arrangement in-
troduced into all the Scottish prisons,and Mrs.
Hill's family still possesses needlework sewn
in overtime by some of the women in whom
she was interested. We cannot in this space
enumerate all she did. But her sympathy was
boundless and never rested until it found an
outlet in practical good. The industrial
Schools of Aberdeen—the first Industrial
Schools ever started—founded and carried on
by Sheriff Watsonrwere one of Mrs. Hill's es-
pecial hobbies,and their founder was one of her
warmest friends. They were day schools, ad-
mission to which was voluntary, where the
children were taught not only the ordinary
elments of education, but also to make nets for
the Aberdeen fishermen (their chief source of
profit), to mend their clothes and shoes, and to
work in the garden. Juvenile begging and
juvenile crime practically ceased in Aberdeen.
	One of Mrs. Hill's favorite theories was that
the world in its schemes, whether of reformation
of criminals, or of improvement of mankind
generally, did not take proper count of three
powerful factors, love, sympathy, kindness. If
all natures were like hers, if the highest
pleasure were found by all as it was
found by her in doing the greatest
good, if all could understand and lighten the 
the cares of others as she could, those factors
would indeed be powerful. Whilst she fully
valued all philanthropic associations, she sat
little on committees. She thought men did
that sort of work better than women. But she
also thought the best work of all was done-
when the sexes worked together in cordial co-
operation, each doing that for which the sex
was best flitted. Perhaps her sphere of good
would have been wider if she had taken a
more active part in the direction of philan-
thropic societies. But she never failed to uti-
lize their organizations when she could, whilst
she constantly sought out cases of individual
suffering. Her keen sympathy thus found
plenty of scope in unceasing though unobtru-
sive good work, which would have been neces-
sarily curtailed if her time had been taken up
by committees.
	Whilst she always maintained that wemen
in their choice of independent work should
never forget the graces of life and all home
duties that fell to their lot, she held equally
strongly that wemen, as regards their work in
life, and their opportunities of self-mainten-
ance, were held in a restraint and subjection
that was most unjust. An old friend, the late
Dr. Birkbeck, once found her when a girl deep
in a book on woman’s rights. "My dear," he
said, "do you agree with these opinions?"
"Yes," replied Martha Cowper. "So do I,"
whispered the doctor, "but mind you don't tell
anybody what you think, or you will never
get a husband." "Then," retorted the girl, "I
never will marry."
	No account of Mrs.Hill would be complete that
omitted to mention her interest in education,
especially the education of the very young.
Mere mechanical teaching by rote and routine
was her abomination. To train the infantile
mind by observation of Nature and constant
explanation of all the simple phenomena of
life was her modus operandi. As usual she put
her theories into practice herself, and her own
children and grand children, and all the little
ones who had the privilege of being within her
circle remember with pleasure her object les-
sens, her clearness of exposition and her wealth
of illustration.
	She sent her own children to the first Kin-
dergarten started in England, and at the same
time was thus enabled to aid two struggling

[Column 2]

German refugees who sought a livelihood by
starting the then novel system. Her love aud
knowlege of natural history influenced her
educational theories, and no school was perfect
in her idea where the pupils were not all taught
to observe and understand the nature that sur-
rounded them. She gave prizes innumerable
for collections of flowers and other natural ob-
jects.
	The last thirty years of her life were spent
in Hampstead, where Mr. Hill resided after his
appointment to the post office. But the change
of scene did not change her interests. Her
life was spent in good work up to the very last.
Indeed her enthusiasm, her disbelief in any hu-
man badness beyond remedy, her profound be-
lief in human perfectibility seemed only to in-
creasewith age. One of her friends writes of
her: "Dear Mrs. Hill's persistent belief in
everything that was good and beautiful was a
magic that lent its glamor to all that
surrounded her. A chat with her reconciled
you to the world and seems to have cleared
away all thought of evil and dread of harm."
	We must close this little memoir. We had
much more to tell, but we must put it by for
some other occasion.  Our picture is but im-
perfect; but it will serve to recall a bright and
happy presence to those who knew her, and it
will be only the fault of the writer if it does
not present to those who did not know her the
image of a good life and a beautiful nature.
The world was the better for her presence while
she lived: we hope it may be the better for her
example now she is gone.—Englishwoman's Re-
view.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


Hope is the great reformer; we must instil this
into men's minds if we wish to cultivate their
virtues or enable them to overcome their vices.
—Horatio Seymour.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Miss Zella Webb, who departed this
life September 28th, 1887, at Provo City, Utah County,
Utah.
	Whereas; In the providence of an Alwise God, He has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved sister, Zella
Webb, who has suffered with patient endurance, and,
Whereas, We are called to mourn the loss of a dear
friend and co-laborer in the work of Mutual Improvement;
one who has always been a faithful member, willing to re-
spond to every requirement made of her by the Associa-
tion; and,
Whereas, Her long suffering has been purifying and en-
nobling, and, as an example to all, will ever be one worthy
of imitation. Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of the First Ward, Provo City, realize the loss of so faith-
ful a member.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy and condolence
to the sorrow-stricken family and friends, hoping that the
Spirit of the Almighty will comfort them in their sad hour
of affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be fur-
nished the family, Territorial Enquirer, WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and kept in the records of the Association.
		HANNAH BILLINGS,
		EVA BILLINGS,
		GRACE BEE,
			Committee on Resolutions.

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	It is with feelings of great sorrow that we record the
death of Sister Mary Stahle, beloved daughter of John and
Susan Stahle, born Nov 17th, 1865, and died Aug 11th
1887, of brain fever, at Bountiful, Utah.
	She was always cheerful and pleasant, and her bright
smile won her friends wherever her lot was cast. She died
as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His wisdom has see


fit to call from our midst our much loved and respected sis-
ter, Mary, and,
	Whereas, Our departed friend and associate was worthy
our highest regard and affection, her labors in our Associa-
tion having been faithfully performed, also in the Sunday
School, we feel that some proper recognition of her virtues
be had among us. Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Association, deep-
ly mourn the loss of so valuable and faithful a co-laborer.
Resolved, That we hereby extend our heart-felt sympathy
and condolence to her parents, brothers and sisters, also to
her promised husband, in the loss of so true a companion,
and we condole with each other in this sad affliction.
Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to her relatives, that one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT for publication, and also placed on the Young Ladies'
record.
	Oh, Mary! thou art gone
		To a bright and happier shpere;
	Although thy spirit's departed
		Thy memory we cherish dear.

	True, you were your mother's darling,
		Also your father's pride, 
	But God saw fit to take you
		Ere you became a bride.

	But, Sister Mary, never mind,
		A work for thee is done;
	Your husband, in God's Temple, 
		Received thee as his chosen one.

				JANF HOLT,
				ESTHER SESSIONS,
	[Committee.]	PRISCILLA GARRETT,
				ANNIE A. BOYNTON,
				SARAH L. DAVIS,


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 305, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT  TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights  of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1887.	NO. 13.


[Column 1]

ODE TO THE PIONEERS.

JULY THE TWENTY-FOURTH, 1847 AND 1887,
CONTRASTED.

"Hark! What sound now breaks upon the air?
Look! What is that object coming there?
Lo! 'tis coming on! Without dismay
It dares, e'en now, to press its way
Into the heart of this, my realm,
And mine with fear to overwhelm. 
I will defend my kingdom; and
Why this intrusion, I'll demand.
Strange being, halt! here I am queen,
And such as you I've never seen;
Nay, tell me why you thus intrude,
To mar my peace and solitude?"

"Queen Nature," said the leader bold,
"By God, our Father, we were told
To come unto this far-off land
And give to you a helping hand.
Our God and yours now bids us take
This desert wild, and of it make
A place where Saints of His may dwell,
And in all virtues here excel.
Queen Nature, with your help God knows
That we, to blossom as the rose,
Can make this wilderness. And now
He bids that you before us bow."

"Alas! alas!" said Nature low, 
"Here in my heart I feel 'tis so.
My God above has sent His sons,
That here, before the Savior comes,
There may be gathered souls of worth,
By whom He'll purify the earth;"
And Nature, now bereft of tears,
Cried, "Welcome, welcome! Pioneers."

And all her subjects forward came,
With cheer and gift of help the same.
The Birds sang out a welcome sweet,
And Trees reached out their arms to greet;
The Great Salt Lake leaped forth in joy,
And said their peace shed ne'er alloy;
The Mountain tops then spoke and said,
Their help lie in their snowy head;
The Rills and Rivulets did dance,
And Rivers smiled so at the chance
Of spreading wide their waters pure,
Thus making life to plants secure.
And said the Beast of hill and plain,
"Our lives we'll give to yours sustain;"
And, yes, the Trout said, of his kind
How much was used they'd never mind.
Then last of all the Soil cried out,
"I'll do my best your seeds to sprout,
And with the help of Sun so bright
This spot will be an Eden quite."

Then that brave band of pioneers	
Did onward move 'mid many cheers;
Adown the mountain side they came—
Sang praises to His holy name.
Right down into the vale they went,
And there they pitched their humble tent
Beside the inland sea; they praised
Their God in fervent prayer, then raised
Their country's flag upon the sod,
Where white man's foot had never trod.
Amid the song and praise sent forth
The twilight closed that Twenty-forth.

Hark! What sound now breaks upon the air?
Look! What is that object over there?
Lo! the throng's vast and swelling yet;
For what grand purpose have they met?

From all the country up and down, 
To every city, village, town,

[Column 2]

Great crowds of people thronging come,
With din of wheels and beat of drum.
The very air is loaded now
With voices glad, that tell of how
The hearts are gay; yes, gathered there
Are men so brave and women fair,
And children pure in innocence,
With youths and maids of excellence;
All in good will they are attired,
A sight by kings to be admired.

Contentment in each eye does beam,
And from each heart good wishes teem,
As round an aged few the crowd
Does congregate. How pleased, how proud.
How thankful to their God they are,
When thinking how from lands afar
They came this day just forty years,
And pitched their tents (these pioneers)
Upon this very spot, where now
Ten thousand people to them bow.

Ten thousand voices sing in praise
Where ten their thanks to God did raise;
Ten thousands meet in temples rare
Where those few prayed in open air;
In lovely homes their time is spent
Where those few dwelt within a tent.
Yes, ease and pleasure is the lot
Of thousands now who know not what
Those few endured; their only joy—
The only hope that did them buoy—
Was in the thought that they God's will
Had done—His word they did fulfil.

Now Nature stands aloof and smiles;
She looks around for miles and miles,
And sees the changes which were made,
Since God her country did invade.
She smiles through fields of waving grain,
Where once was but a barren plain;
She smiles through beds of flowers rare,
And fruits with which none can compare;
She smiles, and with a rain of tears,
The efforts of those forty years
Would bless. And God's caress is felt
Through nature's welcome smiles, and melt
His goodness would a heart of stone—
His mercy thus is daily shown.

Yes, truly now that desert drear
Does blossom as the rose; and here
The Saints of God do ever flow;
That in His grace they all may grow.

And on this day of Jubilee,
May words and thoughts and actions be
As pure and holy as were those
Of them to whom each one now shows
Such deep respect, and may there be
'Tween one and all such unity.
Amid such thanks and praise sent forth
May midnight close this Twenty-fourth.
		LOUISA PICKETT.


[Column 1]

A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF
MILTON.

	Milton, the illustrious blind poet of England,
the, as many believe, divinely inspired author
of "Paradise Lost," was born Dec. 6th, 1608,
in Bread St., London, and was educated first
at St. Paul's School, and afterwards at Christ's
College, Cambridge, where he took his degrees
in arts. The end in view, of his education,
was the bar or church; but he had no inclina-
tion for either calling; and after taking his de-
grees, he returned to Horton, Buckinghamshire,
where his father, who had retired from business
with a good fortune, was then living. It was
here the poet wrote, "Comus," "L'Allegro," "II

[Column 2]

Penseroso" and "Lycidas," poems containing
merit sufficient to have alone immortalized his
name. After his mother's death, in 1637, he
travelled in Italy and France, settling in Lon-
don, on his return, and undertaking the educa-
tion of his two nephews; and if we judge by
his "Tractate on Education," we can readily
suppose he was well calculated for his profes-
sion. It was not merely a disinclination for
the church Milton felt, but a decided antipathy,
I judge; for on the outbreak of the differences
between the King and Parliament, Milton
espoused the cause of the popular side, and
published some pamphlets against the Bishops,
showing great animosity against the hierarchy,
and he bravely avowed on one occasion, "I
have determined to lay up as the best treasure
and solace of good old age, if God vouchsafe
it to me, the honest liberty of free speech." In
1643 Milton married Mary, daughter of Rich-
ard Powell,Esq., of Forest Hill, in Oxfordshire.
For reasons not very clear, except that they
were not congenial to each other, his wife left
his house a few weeks after they were married,
presumably to visit friends, but delayed long,
and finally refused to return home. The hus-
band was very indignant, and wrote some
tracts on "The Doctrine and Discipline of Di-
vorce," which were a great offense to honest
minds. After various negotiations, of which
there is neither room nor need to go into par-
ticulars, his wife returned to him, and they
lived together till her death, nine years after.
About this time intense application to his
studies, combined with naturally weak eyes,
caused total blindness. He continued an ardent
champion for the parliamentary party even
after the execution of Charles I, and wrote
with great asperity against the King's book of
prayers and meditations.
	Milton, now blind, with three little children
on his hands, was sadly in need of a helpmate,
and soon after his wife's death, in 1652, he
married Catharine, the daughter of Captain
Woodcock,of Hackney. She died in childbirth
within twelve months, and that he loved
her, we can see from the sonnet with which
he honored her memory. He speaks
of her as his "late deceased saint," ap-
pearing to him in a dream, her semblance being
such:

	"——as yet once more I trust to have
		Full sight of her in heaven, without restraint."
	And that she
	"——came vested all in white, pure as her mind:
		Her face was veiled; yet to my fancied sight,
	Love, sweetness, goodness, in her person shined
		So clear, as in no face with more delight;
	But, oh ! as to embrace me she inclined
		I woke—she fled—and day brought back my night."

	Can Petrarch's sonnets show more tender or
delicate affection?		
	Milton used every effort to prevent the
Restoration, but after the death of Cromwell
and the Restoration of Charles II, he had
every reason to fear retributive vengeance, so
he kept concealed for some time; but finally,
through the favor of Sir William Devenant,
his brother poet, he obtained a pardon. It was
soon after this he lost his second wife. He
married a third time, a Miss Elizabeth
Minshull, of good family in Cheshire. She
proved to be a bad stepmother, and caused
great unhappiness in the family. In the time
of the plague Milton removed with his family
to Buckinghamshire and devoted himself with


all the ardor of his genius to the completion of
his earliest project, an heroic poem. This was
always in his mind, though not fully under-
taken till he was driven from the field of poli-
tics. "Paradise Lost" was first printed in 1667,
and this immortal work was sold to a bookseller
for the paltry sum of five pounds. It is said,
he was indebted for the idea of it to an Italian
drama on the Fall of Man, and again, many
find the ideas identical with those of Caedmon,
the early Saxon's "paraphrase of the Bible."
To whatever or whomever he was indebted, we
can only be thankful that Milton was, and that
he did write "Paradise Lost." "Paradise Re-
gained" and "Samson Agonistes," a tragedy,
were published three years later. These, with
the poems first mentioned in this sketch, and a
series of sonnets, with a few Juvenilia, in Latin,
English and Italian, are all of his poetical
works. Though he was early attached to the
muses (it is said he was a poet at ten years of
age), he wrote but little till his thirtieth year;
during the next thirty years of his life he pub-
lished no composition in verse beyond the
length of a sonnet or a psalm. His youth and
old age he devoted to himself and fame, his
middle life to his country. Among the prose
works of Milton are his "History of England,"
which comes down only to the Conquest, and
"Areopagitica," in which he pleaded the cause
of a free press with great force aud eloquence.
It is not possible in a short sketch like this to
speak at greater length of his works. Of his
personal habits he tells us himself: "Those
morning haunts are where they should be—at
home; not sleeping or concocting the surfeits of
an irregular feast, but up and stirring in winter,
often ere the sound of any bell awaken men to
labor or devotion; in summer as oft with the
bird that first rouses, or not much tardier, to
read good authors, or cause them to be read"
(evidently his daughters rose early, too), "till
the attention be weary, or the memory have
its full fraught. Then with useful aud gener-
ous labors, preserving the body's health aud
hardiness, to render lightsome, clear, and not
lumpish obedience to the mind."
	When at Cambridge, he was so handsome a
man as to be called "The Lady of Christ's
College," and he retained his good looks to the
last. By his first wife he had three daughters,
two of whom used to read to him in eight
languages, though they understood only their
own, it being a usual saying with him, that
"one tongue was enough for a woman." We
can but acknowledge him as a great poet, but
it must have been, methinks, weary work for
those two girls to plod through word after
word without meaning to them, for their blind
father's benefit, and surely such devotion merits
a crown hereafter. I remember, as a child,
admiring greatly a picture of the blind poet,
seated at an open door, his head thrown back,
with a most ecstatic expression on his face, and
seated at his feet, on the steps, his daughters,
writing down the-fervent words which seemed
to come forth from his entranced soul; but now
I look back I think not so much of the poet or
his poems, but of those poor tired girls, and
wonder if they had a dim perception of the
immortality of the words they wrote, that
gave them courage for their daily tasks.
	Milton died, at his home in Bunhill Fields,
in 1674, aged 68 years, and was buried next to
his father, in the Chancel of St. Giles, at
Cripplegate where a monument has been
erected to his memory; Westminister also con-
tains a bust and monument commemorating the
life and works of one of England's most illus-
trious poets.		MYSOTIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A JOINT CONFERENCE.

	A joint conference of the Relief Society and
Young Ladies Association of the First Ward
of Weber Stake was held in the school house,


Nov. 19, 1887. President Critchlow presided.
After singing, prayer was offered by Bishop
Critchlow. Singing again and then a report
of the association was read from its organiza-
tion on Dec. 11, 1878.
	President M. Critchlow made a few remarks
in which she stated the object of the meeting,
which was to bring about a reunion of confi-
dence and love with the sisters.
	President Nancy Hill made a few encourag-
ing remarks and was followed by Bishop Critch-
low and Counselor James Burch who were
pleased to be present and hoped the meeting
would result in some good. Spoke of the Re-
lief Society as being a great aid to the ward on
account of the benefit which was felt from
their assistance, and also exhorted mothers to
live near unto the Lord, as a great responsibili-
ty rested upon them in raising their families in
the right way.
	President Sarah Herrick of the Central
Board of the Young Ladies could see an in- 
creased interest manifested in this ward as she
had visited many of the Societies.
	Sisters Gibbs and E. Pingree were thankful
for the good counsel they had received and de-
sired to put the same into practice.
	Counselor R. E. Monch had been highly
edified by the remarks of her sisters. She
spoke of many small acts of kindness we could
perform in administering to the sick and
afflicted and to each other that would bring
confidence and love.
	Singing "The Spirit of God," and meeting
adjourned until 2 p.m., prayer by Elder Weav-
er.
	After this meeting the President extended an
invitation to all present to join in the feast
which had been prepared for the occasion in
the new school house to which all did ample
justice.
	Afternoon Session: The afternoon meeting
was conducted by President Nancy Hill of the
Y. L M. I. A., commencing at 2 p.m. by sing-
ing on page 198. Prayer by Brother James
Burch and singing again on 166.
	A report was read of the association from its
organization, after which President Hill ten-
dered her resignation which was accepted. The
vacancies were filled and some excellent re-
marks were made by Counselors Flinders and
Ensign.
	Counselor R. E. Monch counseled the young
ladies to attend their meetings and willingly
perform every duty.
	President Herrick arose and spoke in
tongues and R. E. Monch interpreted, blessing
the sisters, etc.
	This conference will be long remembered as
being a day when the spirit of God was strong
ly manifested and shall ever be regarded as a
happy day by these associations.
The meeting adjourned for one year by sing-
ing on page 260.  Benediction by Bro. Fur-
nise.
		ESTHER PINGREE, Sec.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Oscar Wilde is editing a new magazine for
English ladies—The Woman's World, a shilling
monthly.
	Miss Ellers, M. D., who is physician to the
Queen of Corea, at a salary of $18,000 a year,
has married Rev. D. A. Bunker.
	Miss Dorotha L. Dix, among her other good
deeds, succeeded in calling the attention of
Pope Pius IX to the shocking management of
the State Insane Asylum at Rome. In a brief
but somewhat audacious interview she pre-
sented such startling facts to the Pope, that he
at once took the subject in hand,ordered a new
institution and a new system,and thanked Miss
D .x warmly for her humane efforts.

[Column 2]

	Madame Benda, the mother of Madame
Modjeska, has just died in Poland. She had
lived to an advanced age, but was active and
energetic to the last. Madam Benda was a
woman of unusually strong character and she
brought up a large family, of which the dis-
tinguished actress was the youngest, to hard
work and self-respect. Madam Modjeska was
the prop and stay of her mother from the time
she was fifteen. The news of Madam Benda's
death was received while Madam Modjeska
was playing Juliet in Omaha, but she was not
informed of it until after the performance.
	The woman suffragists of Kansas lately
adopted a yellow ribbon as their distinctive
sign. They call it the "sunflower badge." They
say they chose it "because, as the sunflower fol-
lows civilization, follows the wheel-track and
the plow, so woman suffrage inevitably follows
civilized government." The suffragists of Mas-
sachusetts and Pennsylvania have taken up the
idea, and many of the "white ribbon women"
of the W. C. T. U. are knotting the gold-
colored ribbon with the white one at their but-
ton-holes. The two go well together.
	William Bilborough, an obscure member of
Spurgeon's church, who has lately died, had a
heart full of sincere though unobstrusive re-
ligion, and will be gratefully remembered by
many women. In a back street he kept a
second-hand furniture-shop, and as the streets
around are haunted by fallen women, he placed
in his window the following: "Notice: Any
poor and unfortunate sister that requires a good
home, will she kindly inquire within?" He
was the means of rescuing many, and he pre-
served a record of one hundred and forty-eight
who persevered, and are now honest women.
	Miss Emma Lazarus, the young Jewish poet
who has just died in New York, was the author
of a novel and a number of essays, but was
chiefly known by her poems. She was related
to Miss Gratz, the betrothed of Washington
Irving and the original of the character of Re-
becca in Scott's "Ivanhoe." Miss Lazarus was a
generous friend to the Jewish refugees who fled
to this country from Russian persecution, and
she took an active part in the movement to pro-
vide good music for working people free of
charge, which resulted in the establishment of
the "People's Concerts."
	Misses Fannie and Alice Orton, of Butte
Creek, California, have secured one hundred
and sixty acres apiece of government land.
Each has a residence upon her quarter section,
fences have been built and trees planted.
Plums, apples, prunes, and all the small fruits
grow admirably. Fine winter apples can be
grown and transported at a good profit, and in
a few years their lands will become very valu-
able. The Oroville Register says these girls
"are doing what many a young man might
be proud to do, in the way of securing them-
selves homes."
	Mrs. Clara L. Brewster, president of the
Linn County (Kan.) Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, tells an amusing story of her experience
as a tax-payer of Linn County. She says: "I
was riding to my school one morning (I was a
school-teacher), when a man called to me, and,
in an insulting manner, told me that I was
ordered to work out my road tax on such a day.
I told him I should be ready. There was no
need of telephone or telegraph to spread the
news. It flashed from house to house, at
lightning speed, that a school-teacher—a woman
—was going to work out her road tax. When
the day arrived, every one who had been noti-
fied was on hand, and I worked my road tax
—as Horace Greeley and President Cleveland
fought their battles in the great Rebellion, by
sending a substitute."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRANSFIGURED. 

To careless eyes she is not fair;
This verdict careless lips declare,
And wonder why, against the charm
Of beauty vivid, rich and warm,
The face they deem so cold and dull
To him should be so beautiful.

Are they too dull to see aright?
Hath he a quicker, keener sight?
Or is it that indifference
Than love hath clearer, truer sense?
Now is he right or wrong? Oh, say
Doth he behold her face, or they?

Her eyes into his own eyes shine
With strange illumining; a sign
Is on her brow; a palimpsest,
To his own gaze alone confessed;
On him, in gravely gracious mood,
She smiles her soul's beatitude.

This is the face she turns to him;
Oh, say not 'tis a lover's whim
That finds it fair; nor are they dull
Who say she is not beautiful,
For, strangest of all mysteries,
They never see the face he sees—
The face no artist's skill can limn,
The love-fair face she turns to him.
	— Charlotta Perry in Times-Democrat.


MAN HIS GOD MOST FEAR.

The signs of the times are conspicuous,
	The fig tree is beginning to swell,
And the time is speedily approaching,
	When but few will say, "It is well!"
Bloodshed, wars and pestilences,
	And coming advents are clear,
When jars, contention and strifes—
	And man his God must fear. 

Earthquakes and general commotions
	Are terrifying the hearts of men,
While labor and secret combinations
	Are united heart and hand
To destroy the peace of the nations;
	The judgments of God are near,
He will pour out His indignation,
	And man his God will fear. 

The rich in vanity and splendor
	In palaces gorgeously arrayed—
The poor have cause to murmur
	When their children cry for bread—
They have forgotten their wise Creator,
	And unto fables now give ear;
They will have to endure His vengeance,
	And man his God will fear.

They have changed the laws and covenants,
	And they are wafting to and fro,
And are worshipers of mammon,
	Endeavoring the truth to o'erthrow;
As well might they say to the sun, "Be still!"
	To the angry waves, "Stay there!"
The kingdom will continue to grow,
	And man his God will fear.

Zion's banner is now unfurled,
	The Gospel must be preached,
For the field is white to harvest,
	We will gather in the wheat;
We will call them to repentance,
And to oease their wild career,
	And teach the laws of heaven,
For man his God must fear.

		REWETI.
Sept. 10, 1886.


[Column 1]

VISIT TO THE POET WHITTIER.

[Concluded.]

	After conversing with the ladies of the
house very pleasantly for some time, they
offered to show me the suite of rooms oc-
cupied by their illustrious cousin, and took me

[Column 2]

up stairs, and into the poet's study, or library,
where he spends most of his time when at Oak
Knoll, and where many of his later poems
have been written. The rich carpet and rugs, 
the hangings and furnishings were elegant, and
in perfect keeping with the taste of the Quaker
author. The desk was a large and handsome
one, it was unlocked, and one of the cousins
opened it for me to look in. It displayed the
usual litter of literary people. Around the
room, perfectly arranged, were book-cases and
shelves of books in library style; hundreds of
volumes, selected, no doubt, with the greatest
care. In short, the room was attractively fin-
ished and furnished, and with the living poet
at his desk, must indeed have been a picture
beautiful to gaze upon. I was then shown the
sleeping apartment, a large square chamber, 
over the parlor, I think—the large and com
fortable looking bed in the centre of this room,
with the head to the north. The windows
looked out upon the grounds, beautifully laid
out, and ornamented with the choicest shrub-
bery. Everything to conduce to convenience,
luxury and comfort; one could easily imagine
it a fitting place for rest from toil and brain
work, and well adapted for the slumber of the
great American poet.
	As my time was limited, and I must catch
the train back to Boston that evening, the
ladies ordered their own hore and sleigh to
take me back to the depot, and I bade them an
affectionate goodbye, kissing each of those
sweet and lovely women. They had given me
the necessary information to look up Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps, which, by the bye, I intend tell-
ing of at another time, and also how to reach
Amesbury the following day.
	The next morning I left the Parker House
at Boston on an early train for Amesbury, and
arrived about ten o'clock. Amesbury is a
pretty old town, very unpretending in appear-
ance as far as I could judge in passing through
it, but it has the fascination of being the poet's
home and birthplace, and many, probably the
greater part, of his poems, were written there. 
I took a carriage (on runners) from the station 
to Mr Whittier's home, some little distance
away, and as soon as the driver knew where I 
was going he seemed very talkative, but I was
too busy with my own imaginings to pay much
attention to his conversation, and we were soon
at the gate. I was not long in gaining admit-
tance, for the day was bitter cold. It is a very
plain looking two story house, painted white,
the snow banked up around it, as one sees
in that country usually in midwinter. The
maid who answered the door invited me to
come in, in the most genial manner, and took
my card, coming back directly with a kindly
smile of welcome on her face, saying, "Come
into the parlor, lady." I followed, and was
met halfway by the poet himself; who, after
shaking hands with me, observing the fire had
not been kindled there, invited me into his
study, where a bright coal fire was burning in
an open stove. He welcomed me with the
hospitality of an old courtier of the days of
chivalry; his manner, his benevolent face, his
smooth, snow-white hair, and his long black
broadcloth coat all helped to give him a most
venerable appearance, and I was charmed with
his genuine and courtly bearing. He talked
freely to me of our people, and made various
inquiries about the Edmunds law and its en-
forcement. He wanted to know why Senator
Edmunds was so persistent in his efforts and
measures to uproot Mormonism. I answered
his questions on our subject to the best of my
ability, and as answers gave rise to other ques-
tions, the time flew as it were on wings. Our
conversation was almost entirely of Utah, its
past, present and future, and much of it re-
lated more especially to women. It was one of
the most interesting interviews that I ever have
had, and I enjoyed it thoroughly. When he

[Column 3]

learned I was going to Boston by the afternoon
train, he insisted on my remaining there and
dining with him instead of going to the hotel.
The invitation was given in such a way that it
would have been positively rude to refuse, and
I fully appreciated the courtesy and the kind-
ness; it was much more than I had expected, 
and I felt it was for me a rare opportunity.
Mr. W. evidently enjoyed the conversation, in-
deed he manifested it plainly in words and
manner, and as he had never before seen a
"Mormon" woman, it was something quite
novel to him. He sent for Mrs. Cate, who has
charge of the house, and, after introducing me,
asked her to hurry the dinner, so we might
have plenty of time, and I could catch the
three o'clock train.
	At the table Judge Cate and his wife occu-
pied seats opposite each other, and I was seated
opposite the poet, an honor I shall ever remem-
ber with pleasure. The conversation at the
dinner table was general, and very intertaining, 
but the only thing that caused any remark
was the huckleberry pie; it was the first I had
tasted since my girlhood days, and brought
back to me many pleasant recollections of
green pastures and beautiful hills, and gay
parties of boys and girls laughing merrily and
tripping gaily from hill to vale.
	After dinner we had some further conversa-
tion, and he talked to me of his literary pur-
suits, his love of outdoor pleasures and so forth,
and of poets and poetry, both of New England
and the West. He gave me a photograph of
his study in which we had been sitting, and
where, as he informed me, he had written
many of his poems. He also gave me a mem-
orial containing the names of distinguished
authors, who had asked for international copy-
right, and hunted through his closet for a
picture of Oak Knoll, but not finding a copy,
promised to send me one at some future time. 
However,  I had lingered until nearly train
time, and at last bade the renowned poet and
gentleman a reluctant goodbye.
	After my return to Boston that evening, I
made explicit notes of my visit, much more
than I have given here, and in the evening
went to the Globe Theatre to see Lawrence
Barratt in "Hernani."
		AUNT EM.


﻿Postmaster Vilas has decided that female
clerks may marry and still retain their clerk-
ships. A wise and just decision.
	Miss Phebe Couzins has been superseded as
United States Marshal by Judge J. W. Emer-
son, of Ironton, Mo., a nephew of Ralph
Waldo Emerson. It is said that he did not
seek the appointment, and may not accept it.
	Mrs. General Devereux, for ten years a
valued member of the Cincinnati Commercial
Gazette staff, has been made an honorary com-
missioner of the Centennial Exposition to be
held in Cincinnati next year. Miss Chris-
tine Sullivan, the artist, and Miss Louise Mc-
Laughlin, artist and author, are other ladies
named upon this commission.
	The Working Girl's Institute, as Bridgeport,
Ct, was formally dedicated not long ago. It
was built by Warner Brothers, at a cost of
$100,000. It contains a reading-room, a library
of three thousand volumes, handsomely fitted
parlors, a lecture-room and class-room to be
used for an evening school. In addition to the
every-day branches, music, painting, sewing
and crocheting will be taught, while there is
provision for instruction in dressmaking and
other industries. Attached to the institute will
be a savings bank, the privileges of which will
he extended to all the help in the works, men
as well as women, and every employee who de-
posits two dollars a month is promised a bonus
of half a dollar by the firm in addition to the
regular rate of interest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year,  $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	DURING the month of November there have
been several changes in the condition of affairs
here in Utah as regards Church property. It has 
been a subject for thought and reflection, and can
not but be commented upon by all those who pos-
sess an inkling of the sense of justice and right
It is comparatively easy to submit to injustice
when there is a prospect before one that the wrong
will be righted, but in the case of taking the accu-
mulation of means, the hard earnings of the poor
given as a free offering to the Lord's work, and
appropriating it to public uses, it seems too dread-
ful to be true.  Even the newspapers that have 
denounced "Mormons" in strong terms, take this
view, that Congress should, at an early day, look
into this important matter.
	In this matter of taking Church property,
women are as much interested as men are, and
feel it quite as deeply. They have paid tithing
and given donations after the pattern of the
ancient Saints, and they have taught their children
the principle of tithing, through which the Lord
has promised in the Scriptures special blessings to
be poured out upon His people. The government
of the United States cannot lay any claim to the
property the Lord has blest and increased in the
hands of His servants. But the same spirit ani-
mates the hearts of men of the world now-a-days
as in the religious persecutions of the past. We
hear of Elders who are preaching the Gospel be-
ing maltreated, whipped and abused, meetings
broken up, and innocent people persecuted be-
cause they entertain "Mormon" Elders; but so it
has ever been when the true Gospel has been
upon the earth, and notwithstanding all this the
kingdom is onward; light and knowledge and
power is increasing, and nought can stay the pro-
gress of the work of God established in these last
days, never to be thrown down or given to another
people.
	When one hears of the many great calamities
that transpire from time to time, accidents by land
and by sea, the human lives that are thus destroyed,
the many suicides and murders, it is almost too
much for the soul to contemplate, and it is no
wonder that the Prophet asked the Lord to shut
up the vision, when He showed him what would
come to pass in the last days. In many instances
the Lord has miraculously preserved the lives of
His Saints in their journeyings to and fro; an un-
seen hand has led them and preserved them from
dangers in perilous places. For this blessing, and
many others, the Saints should be exceedingly
grateful to their Heavenly Father, and as He has
guided His people in the past, and preserved them
when their enemies came upon them, so will He
lead them in the future out of the darkness into
light, and the trials and difficulties will He sanctify
to their good, and if they are despoiled of their
goods and property unjustly, and they rebel not
against His commandments, He will multiply His
blessings upon them even more abundantly than
before. The Saints are learning some difficult

[Column 2]

lessons, that require great patience and the truest
humility, and entire devotion to the faith they have
espoused; no half-heartedness, but a sublime
consecration of one's time and talents in the great 
and glorious work now being accomplished.  After 
all it seems so little one can do even in a lifetime,
but when there is a union of effort more good can
be effected.
	Sisters, let us not be weary in well doing, or
faint by the wayside, because of trials to be borne,
or temptations to be overcome; or allow ourselves
to be remiss in any of the duties assigned to us,
whether at home or in a public capacity, but press
forward to obtain the victory and blessing promised
to the faithful. If we seek for wisdom aright to
order our daily lives and conversation according
to the Gospel plan, it will be given, for the Savior
said, "If any lack wisdom let him ask of God,
who giveth to all liberally and upbraideth not." It
is this wisdom that we all need to carry us safely
over and through the dangerous and narrow places
 that the Saints of God at the present time have to
pass, and which, without divine help and assist-
ance, could not be done with safety.


STAKE LIBRARY.

	On Monday, Nov. 28th, 1887, the Salt Lake Li-
brary opened in the "Old Contributor building,"
just north of Z. C. M. I.—No. 15, East Main St.
The room has been quite comfortably fixed up,
and is now opened from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.,
and from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m., and the
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Associations
should take hold and assist in extending the influ-
ence for good which this worthy institution has in
view. Not only in one, but in many ways may
they do this—by contributing books, getting out
certificates of membership, which cost but 50 cts.
for three months, during which time books may be
taken out each week, of the time extended another
week. They may go and read all day without cost
to them.
	It is to be hoped that the public generally
will take an interest in striving to build up the
Reading Room, and make it one of the best read-
ing rooms, and such a place as will be a credit to
the community.
	It is certainly a praiseworthy, benevolent enter-
prise, for many young people who have no com-
fortable place to spend their evenings, are, through
various influences, brought into evil company,
and thus, perhaps, ruined for a lifetime, and their
hopes of an exaltation hereafter wrecked also.
Here now is a field opened for instruction and
amusement of a character calculated to strengthen
the attributes of the soul, as the committee have
selected such books as will promote good and not
evil, truth and not error, and although some per-
sons may maintain that, reading is not an amuse-
ment, yet it can easily be proven that there are
many books that amuse, while they also impress
useful and important lessons upon the mind. We
heartily endorse this movement, and hope the
sisters generally will use their influence to make
it all that is desirable in an institution of this
kind.


[Column 1]﻿

SYNOPSIS OF SERMON.

	On Sunday November 20, 1887, in the Taber-
nacle the congregation was addressed by

BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.
	He realized to some extent the responsibility of
speaking to this people in the name of the Lord.
The preaching of the Gospel and exemplifying its
principles in our lives is the most important thing
we have to do. It is the highest ministry and
greatest honor that can be given to men in the
flesh. Christ, in speaking to Peter, the man
whom he had chosen to stand at the head of the
work on earth which He had established, made

[Column 2]

as the test of his love for Him, that he should feed
the sheep of God, and give unto them the bread
of life.
	The Gospel is the perfect law of liberty, for it
is the design of the Almighty that His children
shall be free; for this the American government
was founded, on a land of liberty, preparatory to
ushering in the Gospel, liberty's perfect law. A
perfect liberty not only casts down tyrants from
their thrones and bursts the fetters of the slave,
but also delivers the mind from captivity, opens
the spiritual dungeons, dispelling darkness and
despair and ushering forth the prisoner of doubt
and sin into the life and light of Gospel freedom.
	The American patriots struck not only for per-
sonal liberty, but liberty for mankind and posteri-
ty. Only small souls lived and labored for them-
selves, their immediate relatives, and for the pres-
ent moment. The great soul is as a mighty warrior,
battling for human good and human rights. Upon
his helmet crest is written, not "Me and mine,"
but "God and my fellowman." Christ was such
a warrior; not his own will but the will of his
Father was his foremost thought; the welfare of
the human family. This is why the angels sang
above His cradle, "Glory to God in the highest,
and on earth peace, good will toward men."
	In Him was made good the promise of the
Lord to Abraham: "In thee and thy seed shall
all the nations of the earth be blest." In His
veins flowed that precious blood, the blood of
Israel, with which God has "sprinkled many na-
tions" for their salvation. Would it be too much
to suppose that in the veins of every good and
great man, inspired and raised up as a benefactor
to his race, there was to be found some of
this blood of Israel with which all nations
were to "be blessed?" Let that be as it may, it is
certain that all such men are the Lord's instru-
ments, and that all men of every nation are and
have ever been carrying out His purposes and
fulfilling His great designs, whether they were
aware of it or not. We are told we must acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things.
	We hear much boasting nowadays concerning
blood and lineage, and some Latter-day Saints
seem prouder if they can trace their families back
to some Norman noble, or robber Baron,
some Duke, or Lord, or Governor, than they
appear to be of their own membership in the
Church of Christ,or of the blood of Israel in their
veins.  There is a great deal of talk of "blue
blood" and "first families," etc., even among the
people of God, the Latter-day	Saints.
Are we not all of one blood, the blood of
Abraham? Are we not all members of the one
"first family" of the earth; the family of our father
Adam?  And above and beyond all, are we not the
sons and daughters of God; we and all the rest
of mankind?
	"Blood will tell" its quality, give it whatever
name you may. True nobility, real greatness, is
not to sit upon a throne, to wear a high head and
a haughty mien, nor does it consist in purple and
gold and fine linen: no more than humility con-
sists in rags and dirt. It will prove itself in hum-
ble and faithful deeds. The highest in very deed
will be the humblest. The King of kings thought
it no disgrace to wash the feet of His humblest
disciple; for "He came not to be ministered unto,
but to minister." "He who would be great among
you," said He "let him be your minister." To
minister is to serve.
	"If ye are the children of Abraham," the Son
of God said to the Jews, "Ye will do the works of
Abraham." What works? Works of faith and
humility, being willing to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in all things, and live by every word
that proceedeth from His mouth. Had they done
this, they never would have put to death the Son
of God, they never would have taken the dead
letter and with it condemned the living oracle;
they would have sacrificed their preconceived no-


[Column 1]

tions and ideas and accepted the new revelation
of God's will, instead of pinning their faith to the
dead writings of Moses and the Prophets; only to
be properly interpreted by the Spirit which they
rejected. They were of the earth earthy; their
minds were materialized, and in their overweening
desire for a temporal deliverance and possession
of earthly things, they overlooked and ignored the
greater deliverance offered them, the spiritual
freedom of the Gospel, the riches of eternal life.
	The tests of faith are various, adapted to all
natures and conditions. The test applied to one
man in the days of the Savior was to "sell all he
had and give to the poor." He could not stand
the test, for he idolized his wealth, instead of wor-
shiping God. Abraham's test was far greater;
gold and silver would have been nothing to him;
he was touched in his tenderest spot, where all
will be tested. The strength of a chain is the
strength of its weakest link, the wall that
is weakest is the wall against which the
battering ram of temptation will be directed.
Abraham was required to offer up his only
son, and hard though the struggle must have
been, he made the sacrifice in his heart, though it
was not required of him to consummate the act.
He stood the test and became the father of the
faithful. He was a brave man, not one who did
not feel—for many men are called brave because
they have no sense of danger—but a man who
felt and suffered, and yet, like Christ, groaning in
his agony of trial, went forward and performed
the will of God. Such men are the bravest of the
brave; they are men of giant souls.
	The Latter-day Saints, though they have come
through a Gentile lineage, have been taught they
are the children of Abraham. What is the test?
That they do the works of Abraham; live by every
word of God, keep his commandments and con-
fess His hand in all things; willing to lay their all
upon the altar and sacrifice earth for heaven, the
temporal for the spiritual, time for eternity.
	It is hard to discourage a people who will do
this; who see in all things the hand of the Lord
over them for their good and his own glory. Who
can say with Job, "I know that my Redeemer liv-
eth and that He will stand at the latter-day upon
the earth; and though, after my skin, worms de-
stroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God."
	The Saints have passed through worse scenes
than the present; they have been robbed and
driven and oppressed, and many have suffered
even death for the Gospel's sake; and their chil-
dren, if they are the true issue of such noble
fathers and mothers, will prove their integrity in
like manner.  Only the chaff will be blown away,
the wheat will remain; the children of the
world will go back into the world, but the
children of Abraham will endure, like him, faith-
ful unto the end.
	It matters not whether we be rich or poor, bond
or free; in sorrow or in joy; if we know that God
lives, and we are engaged in His cause, and are
true to our professions, all that happens will be for
our best good.
	When the Saints were stripped of all their earth-
ly possessions, and driven out of Missouri, Heber
C. Kimball, an Apostle, wrote to the Church in
England: "Be of good cheer, brethren and sisters;
the Church was never in as good a condition as
now; they have lost all their earthly goods and are
now ready to go forth and preach the Gospel to a
dying world."
	A people who hold such views cannot be dis-
couraged; not even by death.
	It was Governor Lilburn W. Boggs, an Ameri-
can, who issued the edict "to exterminate the
'Mormons' or drive them from the State." God
 be thanked that the Saints are not of such a stripe
of Americans as this man, who could thus rob a
helpless and innocent people; expelling 15,000
Americans from their homes, in a land of liberty,
for the sake of their religion.  Such men may say

[Column 2]

they are Americans; but they are freedom's bas-
tards, they are not her sons.
	Let our motto be peace, and good will to all
men, and our lives be spent in the promotion of
the principles of the Gospel, the plan of salvation,
the perfect law of liberty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AN AUNTIE'S NOTIONS ABOUT CHIL-
DREN.

REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS.

	Doubtless the best and highest motive which
can impel either child or adult to obedience is a
sense of duty and love to the person whose wishes
are to be respected. But experience teaches us
that, owing to the frailty of human nature, these
noblest feelings are often not sufficiently developed,
and lack the necessary power to effect the desired
end; in which case we have the divine authority
for adopting a system of rewards and punishments
for the enforcement of beneficent laws.
	It has seemed to me that the chief evil to be
guarded against in giving rewards is the tenden-
cy to degenerate into bribery. A child is told to
do a thing which in itself is simple enough, such
as, Go to bed, or come and be washed, and he
objects. "Do, and I'll give you so-and-so" says
the weak-minded mother or nurse, and if the
juvenile complies, prides herself, possibly, upon
her tact; whereas she has not only in all proba-
bility involved herself in the providing of a simi-
lar bribe upon all future occasions, but worse still,
has committed the grave error of offering to the
child a premium for disobedience; for had the child
promptly and unmurmuringly done as he was told,
he would have had no reward. I once knew two
little boys who were suffering from the same ill-
ness. The one took all necessary medicine and
nourishment without objection, and received no
prize; his brother made a point of refusing un-
less offered some substantial inducement to obedi-
ence, and consequently grew rich upon the bribes
he thus obtained. Was not this unjust and de-
moralizing?
	Some people get their children in the habit of
never going to bed without a sweetmeat or bis-
cuit as an incentive to willingness; and at any
time the accustomed goodie is not forthcoming,
the wailing that follows is both loud and long.
One mother I knew had also brought up her little
son to always expect pennies for the smallest ser-
vice he performed on her behalf and as a result
I have often heard the most unseemly bargaining
when he has been asked to do anything, as to how
much she would pay him for it! Thus one can
not help seeing the fallacy of giving rewards as a
regular thing,to be expected, and taken as a right,
rather than as an occasional encouragement and a
proof that an effort to be good is not unnoticed.
	Of course any special arrangement for enabling
a child by industry to earn a little
pocket money comes under a different head;
as does also a particular prize for some unusual
effort—the mastery of an extraordinary task, or
the conquering of an objectionable habit. But
now to speak of punishments. Our Poet Laureate
says:

	"He that only rules by terror
	Doeth grievous wrong."

	And the parent whose sole notion of discipline
is to hold the rod, figuratively speaking, perpetual-
ly over his children's heads, is certainly unfit for
his responsbilities. I do not now intend to dwell
upon the question of whether corporeal punish-
ment, as a rule, is or is not, advisable; but it is un-
deniable that the form of punishment must vary
with the different dispositions of the children on
whom it is to be inflicted, and the character of
the offense which called it forth. Therefore I am
inclined to think that for boys of coarse, heavy,
material nature, and for the commission of such

[Column 2]

wrong-doing as wanton cruelty to animals or
smaller children, physical suffering is the mos
suitable penalty. Others may be deterred from
evil by the prospect of being deprived of some
much-prized pleasure, or expected dainty; while
for those of fine and sensitive mind and who
have been well brought up, the withdrawal for a
lime of the parent's approval will be all sufficient.
But no mother should upon any account hold
forth a threat which she is not firmly resolved, if
necessary, to carry out to the uttermost.
	Concerning this subject, however, the thought
that presses one most strongly is that the correc-
tion should be administered from a right motive
and be absolutely just. The only ground on
which punishment should be imposed upon any
child is the hope that the penalty may prove a de-
terent. To punish from a feeling of personal an-
noyance is simple revenge, and fatal to justice;
besides which it shows a very bad example.
Charlie inadvertently knocks the table at which
we are writing, and spills the ink; in sudden
anger we box his ears. Presently Charlie's little
brother as unintentionally upsets the blocks with
which he is building, and is sent away crying with
a hearty slap. We condemn Charlie's behavior
as unkind; but from whom did he copy it? Again,
when administering correction in the heat of irri-
tation, how are we to guard against being influ-
enced by mood?—a precaution which is essential.
An inoffensive action can not become punishable
because the mother has had a bad night with baby,
and feels cross, any more than a wrong deed can
be made excusable because she happens to be in
an unusual good temper. Yet how many children
are made to suffer, and often wrongfully, in con-
sequence of temporary peevishness in the pa-
rent, or merely from a spirit of retaliation!
	Furthermore, in order to judge fairly of the mer-
its of a case, one must take time to weigh
thoroughly the probable motives of the child's
conduct, to consider whether it arose from ignor-
ance or wilfulness, from mere thoughtlesness or
from a wish to annoy; for the feeling underlying
the action, and not the amount of damage or
trouble resulting should be the gauge of the pen-
alty. Throwing stones, if forbidden, is equally
wrong, whether or not a broken window is the
consequence; and the latter disaster, though
causing vexation and expense, does not actually
aggravate the fault. A pure accident should
never be visited with severer reproof than an ad-
monition to greater carefulness in future. A pen-
alty for any offense should, moreover, never be
inflicted if there is a chance that vrebal remon-
strance may be sufficient; and in no case without
first hearing impartially the culprit's own
statement as to the reason for his conduct; it may
easily be seen whether he is offering empty ex-
cuses, or any real paliation of his fault.
     But in order that this plan may work well, and
unerring justice be done, the child must from his
earliest years be trained to absolute candor and
truthfulness.
		JENNIE CHAPPELL.


ITEMS FROM ENGLAND.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Jubilee festivities are now drawing to a
close with the year, and soon they will be con-
sidered things of the past. We have seen, this
last twelve months, many magnificent sights
and pageants, that will be handed down to pos-
terity We have heard the flattering remarks
of respect, and beheld the many beautiful
gifts presented to our beloved Queen, from al-
most every nation upon the earth, and no Eng-
lish heart  can feel other than proud of these
tokens of esteem towards the illustrious
Sovereign whom the King of kings has spared
so long to govern her people.
	Bright as the year has been in many re-


[Column 1]

﻿spects, it has brought sorrow to many; England
has lost many of her noblest men, both in liter-
ary, political and social circles. The terrible
disaster at a theatre in Exeter, which resulted
in the death of so many people. and brought
misery to so many homes, alone makes this an
eventful year, and one long to be remembered
by the widows and orphans and friends of the
poor ill-fated victims. 
	A number of statues have been erected in
various parts of the kingdom as memorials of
the Jubilee, but the Imperial Institute, as I
have previously stated, is to be the National
Memorial, and many thousands of pounds have
been poured into its treasury from foreign
countries, as well as our own. It was proposed
by the Prince of Wales, that all classes, with-
out distinction of class, creed or race, should
unite to raise this tribute to Her Majesty, the
Queen, and donations as low as one shilling are
accepted. The Committee have laid down as
the basis of their programme, that "the pur-
pose and effect of the Institute is to advance
the commercial and industrial resources of
every part of the empire." They also propose
it shall include "collection of samples of pro-
duce, and of manufacturing industries, a
library for industrial, commercial and economic
study." A fully equipped map-room, for geo-
graphical and geological reference, a special
library for patents and inventions, and arrange-
ments for the "collection and diffusion" for the
benefit of intending emigrants and others; also
the fullest information in regard to the indus-
trial and material condition of the Colonies,
and of the particular direction in which they
are susceptible of further development; so that
it may be indicated that its operations will
probably be embraced within four chief sec-
tions, viz: Industries, Commerce, Technical and
Commercial Education, and Emigration. It
is now in course of erection at South Kensing-
ton, and, from appearances, I should say when
finished it will be a very fine building; the
good it will achieve remains to be proved.
	The Jubilee presents have all been taken to
St. James' Palace, and the public are allowed
to view them, without any fee being charged,
for a few weeks only, and one is amply repaid
for a visit.
	After passing through an enormous crowd
we found ourselves within the charmed interior
of a Palace that has great historical interest,
and on going up the old-fashioned stairs, the
first thing noticeable is a splendid oil painting 
of one of the kings of England, by a celebra-
ted painter. The first room contains a hand-
some pair of elephant's tusks, and some equally
handsome horse-trappings of cloth of gold and
the most exquisite embroidery; also an antique
dinner gong, which is suspended over a brass
head. Passing to the next room, there are
many costly gifts, far too numerous to mention;
the most conspicuous were as follows: A chair
of beautiful workmanship, executed by the
basket-makers of Wickham and presented by
the Mayor and the Aldermen of that place; a 
handsome round table, inlaid with mother of
pearl and precious stones; an ivory chair is also
shown; the back and seat are covered with em-
broidery worked in gold thread in a most ex-
quisite manner; the blending of colors in this
delicate work displayed the greatest taste we
have seen for some time. It was worked and
presented by a lady who resides at Hughenden
the estate of the late Earl of Beaconstield. The
plate presented by the children and grandchild-
ren of the Queen is very richly ornamented,
and very handsome, and a beautiful silver de-
sert service, from the servants of the royal
household, deserves credit for the taste dis-
played. I noticed in the Throne Room an
immense ostrich feather fan of snowy whiteness,
that was too large for anything but ornament.
It was in this room that the addresses of con-
gratulation were displayed, and there seemed

[Column 2]

no end to them. The Jubilee cake was on
view also. It was presented by Gunters, the
confectioners, who begged the Queen to accept
it, because they made the coronation cake fifty
years ago. By the courtesy of Mr. Gunter, we
inspected it before its presentation, and candid-
ly confess we never saw anything of its kind to
equal it before. It was over ten feet high, and
nine feet in circumference. There are medal-
lions of the Queen and the late Prince Consort
on either side; the crown, composed of gilt and
white satin is elevated on a pedestal under a
canopy, and is approached by dozens of steps
moulded in the icing. This canopy rests upon
four pillars, the base of each being guarded by
a lion; above this there are four heralds with
trumpets, who are proclaiming the Jubilee to
the world. The dove and an olive branch signi-
fying peace is the topmost ornament of this
exquisite gift. The beading of sugar round
this immense cake is composed of roses, sham-
rocks and thistles, typical of the three king-
doms, England, Ireland and Scotland. It is a
masterpiece of the confectioner's art, and does
great credit to Messrs. Gunters for the patience
in execu ing so beautiful a design, and it was
well worthy to grace the festival of the Jubilee.
It weighs over a quarter of a ton. After pass-
ing through many galleries which contain the
portraits of the English kings and queens for
ages back, by the beat masters of painting, we
again found ourselves in Pall Mall, well satis
fied with the visit we had paid. The grand
old Palace is now almost exclusively used for
levees, at which the Prince of Wales presides,
and all presentations are equivalent to pre-
sentations to Her Majesty.
	I promised to tell you my impressions of the 
American Exhibition that was held at Bromp-
ton, when I had visited it. It is now closing,
and seems to have been very successful. The
interior of the Exhibition is very nice. The
many useful and fancy articles for sale, new
inventions, and glimpses into American cus-
toms rendered it more than usually interesting,
particularly to those who hope to reside in
America in the future. The dried and pre-
served fruits looked especially tempting, and
made us confess, however unwilling, that their
mode of preserving fruits far excelled our En-
glish ways, and wherever we turned everything
was "so American" and so "nice" and so pe-
culiar to themselves, that it quite made us long
to fly away to the home where these niceties
came from. Consequently everything "Ameri-
can" is the rage just now.
	There is a very interesting picture gallery at
the Exhibition, and it contains a charming
picture of Miss Mary Anderson; also some
splendid scenes of battle. Two pictures took
my fancy greatly in the collection; one was
entitled, 'A Storm in the Rocky Mountains."
and the lights and shades in this picture were 
simply exquisite, and it was with regret that
I left it to gaze on others of less artistic value.
The other was the picture of a woman on the
brink of the river, and the despair that was
written upon her countenance reminded me
very forcibly of the poet; when he wrote:

	"Mad from life's history,
	Glad to death's mystery;
	Swift to be hurled,
	Anywhere, anywhere out of the world."

The statuary was also very nice. The enter-
tainment given by Colonel Cody was very in-
structive and amusing. The Indians, who
seemed to possess very intelligent faces, and
were finely built men, looked very picturesque
in their peculiar attire and still more peculiar
paint. Their swift horsemanship is a great
marvel. A settler is represented as coming to
take up his abode with them; the Indians, who
have been watching them, surprise them and
threaten to destroy them, when a party of
cow-boys come to the settlers' rescue, and finally

[Column 3]

the Indians retreat, and we are left to imagine,
as the children tell us, that they lived happy
ever after in good old story book fashion. After
the performance was over we were allowed to
inspect the scene of action, their wigwams and
tents; also the tents of the cow-boys, which
looked very clean, and were fixed up nattily
with rugs, and in some instances lace antima-
cassars were thrown over the chairs, which
somewhat surprised us, knowing how the oppo-
site sex usually denounce these "little effects"
in a room, to the terror of every good house-
wife. These cow-boys were very nice looking
and stalwart men, very pleasant to speak to,
and were certainly clever riders. Such horse-
manship is unequalled. Their breaking in wild
horses, who endeavored repeatedly to throw 
them, was especially commendable. The
grounds were very prettily laid out with flowers,
and the bands were very cheerful, the music
was very popular, and suited the tastes of the
visitors. The gardens were illuminated in the
evening, and it was then used as a fashionable
promenade for all classes. A switchback Rail-
way and tobogganing slide, attracted the juven-
ile portion of the visitors, and not a few elder-
ly people, who, for the novelty of the thing,
trusted themselves to this quick mode of travel-
ing, only to say when landed at their destina-
tion, "Never again". The manager of the "Wild
West" is Colonel W. F. Cody, and his portrait is
exhibited at almost every stationer's. He is
considered a very fine looking, handsome man.
The ladies are credited with this statement, but
even they are not unanimous on this point. Be
it as it may, he is the lion of the hour in aristo-
cratic circles; no garden party, or banquet, or
ball was considered complete this season unless
he was present, and this craze went so far that
it was fashionable to write his name upon the
corner of all invitation cards as an inducement
to those who received them to attend. However,
the season is now over for London, and Colonel
Cody will soon return to America, if reports
are to be believed, and nothing but sweet or
bitter memories, as the case may be, will be
left.
	The Queen is now staying at Balmoral with
the Princess Beatrice, who has just given birth
to an infant Princess. The Queen is much at-
tached to Princess Henry of Battenburg, who
is her youngest daughter, and her constant
companion, and upon her marriage Her Majesty
expressed a desire that she should remain with
her, and she has accordingly done so. The
Prince and Princess of Wales are having a
little trouble; their three daughters while
abroad have contracted the measles, but from
reports circulated, we may now hope they will
recover. The Princess has nursed them with
untiring devotion, and by so doing sets an ex-
ample to all mothers worthy of imitation, and
although a Princess, she never for one moment
forgets that she is a mother, and her children
claim her attention and care before all else. If
this noble lady and her husband live till March
10th, 1888, they will complete the 25th anni-
versary of their wedding-day, and many will
be the prayers that will ascend to heaven for
her happiness and prosperity.
	I must draw this to a close, hoping my en-
deavors to interest and amuse you have suc-
ceeded. Ever praying for the welfare of Zion,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		MARION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
HUNTINGTON.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
Thinking you might find space for a few
lines in the columns of your little paper, I take
pleasure in writing them.
Our society is in a thriving condition con-


[Column 1]
﻿sidering that this is a new place. We have a
granary nearly completed which will hold
about one thousand bushels of grain, and hope
to have it filled some day. I think we will
have it all paid for this fall.
	There has been considerable sickness here
this fall with typhoid fever. But the sisters
seem to be doing all they can to help one an
other. There is a good spirit in our society.
Our monthly meetings are well attended con-
sidering there is so much sickness. Wishing
the EXPONENT the success it deserves, I re-
main,
			Your sister,
				Julia Whitney, Sec.

		FIFTH WARD, OGDEN.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells:
	Dear Sister:—In compliance with your
request I send you condensed minutes of the
organization of our Relief Society.
	According to appointment a goodly number
of the sisters residing in the Fifth Ward, also
Prest. Jane S. Richards and Courselors, met
with the Bishopric of said ward, on the 13th
day of June 1887, to organize a Relief Society.
	After the usual opening exercises, the Bishop
said he bad consulted with his Counselors and
Prest J. S. Richards in regard to officers, and
they had decided on the following sisters,
whose names were presented and unanimously
sustained: Rachel F. Burton, President;
Maria S. Stevens and Martha H. Brown, Coun-
selors; Mary A. Watson, Secretary; Lydia Mor-
rison, Assistant Secretary; Sarah Watson,
Treasurer.
	After the organization was effected, the sis-
ters who had been elected, being called upon
expressed themselves willing to act in the po-
sitions assigned them, and desired the assist-
ance of the Holy Spirit that their labors might
result in much good.
President Richards, her Counselors, and
Counselor G.W. Larkin addressed the meeting,
giving much wise instruction and many words
of encouragment.
	After a few closing remarks by the Bishop
the meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing. Benediction. 

		DAVIS STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So
ciety of Davis Stake was held in the East Boun-
tiful Meeting House Oct. 21, 1887, Prest.
Susan Grant presiding. Present on the stand
were Sisters B. W. Smith and Emma Bull
from Salt Lake City. After singing, Prayer
was offered by Sister Mary Clark. Continued
by singing, and minutes of previous conference
were read and approved.
	President Grant made opening remarks and
suggested hearing from the presidents of the
different branches. 
	Prest. Atkinson reported South Bountiful
Relief Society, spoke of the importance of be-
ing united, that we may have the Spirit of the
Lord to dwell with us. If we do not improve
our privileges the Lord will not bless us; hoped
to be able to stand all the trials we have to
pass through; if we strive to keep the Spirit of
the Lord, it will take us safely through.
	President Muir said, I feel to do all the good
I can; we are thinking of building a granary;
I ask the Lord to bless each one of you and
may His Spirit rest on all who speak.
	Coun. Nancy Willey represented East Boun-
tiful Society; said there are a few who are al-
ways present and ready to attend to all their
duties	
	Prest. Randall reported Centerville Society;
said she felt more and more interested in the
society the longer she was associated with it;
we feel well and united to try to look after the
poor, and our other duties; the Lord will ac-
cept our labors if we do the best we can.

[Column 2]
Sister Barkdall said she was thankful she
had a standing in this church and desired to live
so she could claim the blessings of the Lord;
we should make it a business of asking
the Lord to help us, if we are faithful in the
discharging of our duties, He will bless us and
we will have joy in our bosoms.
	Sister B. W. Smith said I have nothing new
to advance, but feel to encourage the sisters.
There are a great many who are sick and poor
and it is our duty to attend to them. Said she
was present at the first organization of the Re-,
lief Society by Joseph Smith; he used to meet
with us and she believed he would again.We
ought to be very good women, and live so
that we may he prepared for the good things
that await us. It is good to meet together for it
creates a love and union with one another; felt
that she never had any trials but what she
couId overcome; had felt that she had had sup-
ernatural strength given her to perform her
duties; I ask the Lord to bless you and our
brethren that are in prison, and may He bless
and help us to keep the faith.
	Coun. Lucinda Brown said she was proud to
have a standing in this church and associated
with the best women in the world; she had
passed through great trials, had never been
tried in principles of the gospel, we have all
we can do to keep ourselves and our children
right; when we rise up and speak by the spirit
of the Lord it will be edifying. It is my
prayer that we may overcome and live right in
the sight of the Lord.
	Coun. Mary Clark said it renews and en-
courages us to meet together; we can have rev-
elation if we live for it; it is the older ones that
should set an example. Feel and realize, that
the hand of the Lord is over us; we will be
blessed in looking after the poor; may we do
good continually; I feel to say in my heart God
bless you all.
	Prest. Grant said, we have had a good time
and will adjourn until 2 p m. Singing. Bene-
diction by Counselor Brown.
	Afternoon meeting: Opened by singing.
Prayer by Prest. Layton. Singing.
	Sister Emma Bull said it is our privilege to
receive the Spirit of the Lord if we live for
it; if we accept these persecutions with the
spirit the Lord designs us to, it will do us good;
am quite sure we will never receive an exalta-
tion without working for it; I wish my sisters
would realize the necessity of doing their work
here; it is a great privilege we have in reliev-
ing the sick aud the poor, and let me enjoin it
upon you that whatever you do, do it well; if
it is teaching or anything else, if you cannot 
attend to it properly, let some one attend to it
who can; we are passing through a very severe
trial; we must cultivate the spirit of charity
aud not judge hastily; the Savior said “we
must not only be good but appear good” and
so live that we may be an example to the out-
side world also that we may be one with our
husbands; we are promised that we shall know
a great deal; realize sisters what great things
await us; strive to improve aud increase in
knowledge, etc.
	Sister B. W. Smith, said we should put away
pride, selfishness, and selfwill, and set our
houses in order; am glad to see so many young
mothers here; it is a great thing to be a mother
and have a family of children to raise; urged
upon mothers the necessity of setting a good
example before their children, attending to
family prayers etc; refered to the trials she had
passed through; said she felt to rejoice when
she saw temples reared, where we can do the
work for our dead, there is not a command-
ment of the Lord but what is good for us;
spoke of the necessity of taking care of the
poor, and instructing the young to be careful
and prudent, to keep their houses neat and
clean, that their homes may be a heaven to
their husbands and children; thought it was a

[Column 3]
good thing to keep a journal; don’t do anything
that will bring sorrow upon us, and live so as
to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord at all times.
	Sister Rhoda Hinman said, my desire is to
live so I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord; we
will be rewarded for what we do and should
be energetic in performing our duties; and we
should be prayerful; if we give a little we will
be blessed; it takes means to relieve the poor;
spoke of the snares that are laid for our chil-
dren; and the necessity of keeping a careful
watch over them; we should be very humble
and prayerful; this is the Kingdom set up in
the last days never more to be thrown down.
I pray God that He will strengthen and give
us His Spirit from day to day.
	Prest. Grant said “we have had a great deal
of good instruction; I saw Sister Eliza; she
sent her love to you all; we realize she presides,
over all the societies; I feel that we are blest
this day and have the Spirit of the Lord with
us; if we make up our minds to get up and
speak we will have good meetings; am glad to
see you young mothers here, it is where
you can get good instructions; teach your chil-
dren while they are young to have faith in the
Gospel; I realize that great responsibilities rest
upon us as mothers, we should try to improve
our children that they may grow up refined
and polite, and try to make our homes com-
fortable that when our children and grand chil-
dren visit us they may feel that the spirit of
the Lord is with us; take great pleasure in visit-
ing the different branches of the Society, and
if I can say a word of comfort to my sisters I
am glad. I want to speak of a little busiuess;
we need means; the Secretary is in need of a
new book, and would be glad to have the
presidents donate to help defray expenses; feel
that those who give will be blessed in giving;
don’t let us be weary in well doing. May the
blessings of God attend us in all our duties.”
	Prest. Layton said, ‘ I have a testimony to
bear, that this is the Church and kingdom of
God, and do what we may it will stand; let our
light so shine that we may set an example to
others. I desire to do all I can to help roll on
this work; have always responded to the calls
that have been made, and we ought to help
Sister Grant bear the expenses of the Stake.
It was a saying of Joseph Smith, that ‘the
liberal man lives by his liberality.’ I hope we
will try and keep the Sabbath day holy; read
the Bible and the Book of Mormon and learn
of the dealings of the Lord with those people;
we need to round up our shoulders and trust in
God; if we ever get to the top of the ladder
we will have to do our share of climbing. I
want to be an active member in doing good. I
ask the Lord to bless you, my sisters.”	
	Sister Jane Cook desired to bear her testi-
mony to this work; had always been taught to
respect the Sabbath; said she was one who was
dependent on the Relief Society; asked. the
Lord to bless those who render assistance to the
needy.
	Prest. Grant said, “We will adjourn our
conference for three months, to meet at Center-
ville.” .	’
	Singing, “Lord, dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Benediction by Prest. Grant.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ADDRESS,

TO THE Y. L. M. I. A. OF NEPHI, ON THE
TWELFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THEIR OR-
GANIZATION:

MY DEAR YOUNG SISTERS:
     Through the blessing of our Heavenly
Father our lives have been spared, and we are
permitted to celebrate another anniversary of


the organization of our Association.  It is a
good time to review the past, to sit down face
to face with our conscience and scrutinize our
inner self and ask ourselves if we have done
all that we could to make our Association a
success.  Is it our fault that our meetings are
not very well attended, and that our Associa-
tion is not in as good a condition as it should
be?  What benefit have our meetings been to
us?  How much have we improved?  What
have we learned during the past year?  What
have we done for the advancement of our Asso-
ciation?  Have we attended our meetings faith-
fully, and used our talents and energy to pro-
mote its interests?  Are we better daughters,
sisters, wives or mothers since we became mem-
bers of the Improvement Association?  If we
are not better in every respect than those who
do not attend our meetings, our Association is
a failure as far as we are concerned.  But it is
not a failure to those who take advantage of
the opportunities it affords for doing good to
others as well as themselves, for it is a fact,
that in teaching others we are taught, and in
blessing we are blessed.  Who can engage in a 
greater work than teaching the principles of
eternal life by precept and example? “Blessed
are those who keep the commandments of God
and teach others to do the same.” We did not
come upon this earth simply to eat, drink and
fritter away our time, seeking enjoyment in the
vain things of the world, but we had an object
in view, a mission to perform, and the little
time allotted to us in mortality is all the time
we have to obtain that object, to fill our mission
and prepare for the great eternity before us.
	Life at best is short and uncertain, surely
we should make the best of the little time we
stay, and make a good record, one that we will
not be ashamed to meet.  Our character is all
there is of us, and we have it in our own hands
to say what it shall be; it is all we can take
with us.  The record of a well spent life gives
more satisfaction than anything else on earth,
and will receive the greatest gift from our
Father, even eternal life.
	I earnestly desire that we awaken from our
indifference, and learn to appreciate the day in
which we live and the privileges that surround
us, and trust that through our energy and
faithfulness our Association will be much im-
proved when another anniversary dawns upon
us.
						M. E. TEASDALE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Nov. 1, 1887, as follows:
	Hannah C. Bailey, Utica. N. Y., attachment
for Beds for Invalids.
	Estella Case, Newport, N. Y., Combined
Shoulder-brace and back-support.
	Lousie D. Feen, Cincinnati, O., Fire-escape.
	Emma J. Whitman, Oakland, Cal., Sash-
fastener.

	Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending November 15, 1887, as fol-
lows:
	Addie M. Brock, North Plainfield, N. J.,
Fence-rail.
	Julia A. Downey, Oberlin, O., Toaster.
	Maude Murray, Bordstown, Ky., Holder for
Bed-covers.
	Hattie S. Works, Brooklyn, N. Y., Frame
for Signs.


﻿OBITUARIES.
DIED, In Huntington, Emery Co., Utah, October 15th,
1887, Catharine A. Johnson, wife of Joseph E. Johnson,
and daughter of Peter and Catharine Johnson, of Hunting


ton.  Deceased was born in Ephraim, Sanpete Co., Utah,
June 28th, 1862, and was married to Joseph E. Johnson
January 18th, 1878.  She was of a kind and gentle disposi-
tion, and an earnest worker in the cause of truth.  She was
a member of our Society, and was chosen President of the
Y. L. M. I. A. when it was first organized in this place, and
retained that position until about a year ago.  The be-
reaved husband was on a mission to the Southern States,
but returned home a few days after her burial.  She leaves
a loving husband and two little children, and a large circle
of friends and relatives to mourn her departure.
										COM.

     DIED, in Mill Creek Ward, Salt Lake County, October
17th, 1887, after a lingering illness of more than one year;
Albertine Ariminta North, born Dec. 22nd, 1867.  De-
ceased was a young lady of exemplary character, and her
acts in life were those of a good and pure girl, and she
bore her long illness with patience and fortitude.  She was
a member of the Y. L. M. I. A. and a teacher in the Sab-
bath School, and was always willing to cheerfully respond
to all calls made upon her.  She lived and died a true Lat-
ter-day Saint.  She leaves a father and mother, brothers
and sisters, and a large circle of friends to mourn her loss.
Her friends feel to sympathize with Brother and Sister
North and family in their sad bereavement, and feel to ask
the blessings of heaven to rest upon them to comfort and
cheer their hearts.
						CLARA E. SNEDAKER,
In behalf of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Mill Creek Ward.


﻿IN MEMORIAM.
	The undersigned officers of the Relief Society and Prim-
ary Association of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, having
appointed a committee of one to draft resolutions of sym-
pathy and condolence, received and adopted the following
resolutions, as an expression of their sympathy and affection,
and in recognition of the noble life and excellent character
of the late Elizabeth Pugmire, who died at her residence in
St. Charles, Idaho, Nov. 13th, 1887:
	Inasmuch as it has pleased God in His infinite wisdom to
take from us a wise counselor, a kind and loving sister, a
fond and devoted mother, and an upright and faithful mem-
ber of the Church of Christ, whose life has been devoted
to her family, her friends and the kingdom of God; one
who in the darkest storms has never faltered, and while
passing through privations, suffering and afflictions through
the inhumanity of professing Christians—being driven from
Nauvoo in 1846—left with her first born upon the desert,
surrounded by others as helpless and destitute as herself,
while her husband, the late Jonathan Pugmire, with the
noble 500 had gone to Mexico to fight the battles of the
nation, that could not or would not protect these much
abused exiles from those who had despoiled them of their
goods, robbed them of their homes and killed their prophets
—under all these trying circumstances our brave and faith-
ful sister displayed the courage of her convictions, her de-
votion to her husband her religion and her God.  And when
the time came that she was called to share her home and
her husband with other wives, our sister was equal to the
occasion, and to the day of her death devoted herself, to
their interests and comfort, all dwelling together in peace,
love and union—an evidence to God, angels and men that
plural marriage is productive of the best interests and
greatest blessings of humanity, when entered upon and
conducted in the spirit of the Gospel.
	Sister Pugmire was the chief manager of the St. Charles
co-op store for many years, and in which she was eminently
successful.  As Secretary of the Relief Society of the Bear
Lake Stake, and Counselor to the President of the Stake
Primary Association, our sister was appreciated by all who
knew her.  In the discharge of her duties she often traveled
from Woodruff in Utah, to Soda Springs in Idaho.  It was
on her last trip to Soda Springs that she was taken with a
congestive chill, from which she never recovered.  It may
be said she died in the Gospel harness, fully equipped in
fighting the good fight of faith, and died with a sure and
certain hope of a resurrection to eternal life.  Therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister Elizabeth Pugmire
we have lost a true and valued friend, a wise counselor,
and a ready and faithful worker in all that tends to the ad-
vancement of truth, wisdom, honor and intelligence.  Be
it
	Resolved, furthermore, That in this dispensation of the


Divine will, we have lost a noble mother in Zion, an exem-
plary Saint in all that is kind and loveable, faithful and
true.  And her sons and daughters and household have
suffered a loss that can never be replaced till they meet the
loved one again in the resurrection of the just.  Be it fur-
ther
	Resolved, That a copy of this preamble and resolution
be sent to the family of our beloved sister; also to the
South Eastern Independent and the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT.
	(Signed)
				J. P. LINDSAY,
				ELIZABETH COLLINGS,
				L. M. HART,
				ANNIE LAKER, 
				SARAH HOLMES.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
     Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES. Box 336. Salt Lake City

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
     Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre

For Sale at This Office
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 3, -		25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c.  	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1   - 			$1.00  	"
	"	Vol. 2 containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25 	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	Tourists with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco. - 	1.50		"

		
	</ss>


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1887.	 No. 14.


[column 1]
TO THE BELOVED MEMORY OF

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

Would that my muse might fitting numbers wake,
Mem’ry sweet echoes for a loved one’s sake;
But, oh! too feeble  and too sad my voice,
Her's spoke but to make music and rejoice—
Supreme o'er sorrow and life's varied wrongs,
Her soul learned lessons that she wrought in songs,
And taught her sisters how, through griefs and pains,
The Father made all their trials end in gains.	
Like one born to the purple and its state,
Pomp, did not thrill, nor praise her soul elate, 
But, calm and watchful, as with sovereign care,
In other’s sorrows her spirit' came to share.
Beside a Prophet, yes, beside a king,
She well might stand and bards her praises sing. 
Yet if her soul a foretaste ever knew
Of future grandeur, glorious to view,
Her lips ne'er spoke the secret in their pride
For love to welcome, or the base deride; 
Nay, all her treasury of hope and faith she kept
Within her woman’s heart, where sorrows gently slept,
Covered them with rev’rent care, and then went forth to
	seek
Less blessed than she with fortitude—the sorrowful and
	weak.
Those have the sweetest voices who’ve most of sorrow
	known,
So her’s bore balm to wounded hearts e'en by its simplest
	tone,		
And thousands live to bless her voice, yet none have ever
	heard
E’en in reproof, a tone unmeet for love’s and sorrow’s
	word.
Go, search the lines by mightier pens, her soul soared high
	as theirs,	
Yet her humility was sweet as childrens' at their prayers.
And well might pride and luxury their arrant faces hide,
She wore the fabrics that she wrought, their rich array
	beside,
Nor costly gifts, nor radiant gems her queenly form might
	deck,
Their passing worth and soulless light her spirit’s joy would
	check;
She waited for those richer gems, celestial beings win,
Who've overcome the tests of earth and tasted not of sin,
I do not miss her loving smile, it lingers in me yet,
And mem’ry of her tender voice this heart can ne’er forget,
So many, many were the years its music breathed to me—
I close my eyes and hear again, as last beside her knee
She gave me kiss and blessing, her parting farewell gift;
A holy spell was in the room, and seemed almost to lift
The veil that wraps this earthly sense from dull and real
	things,
And almost severs link by link the ties by which it clings.
It did not seem like death, although the scene was new and
	strange,
A sacred calm was over all, sweet as the blessed change.
The emblems that she would have praised, bloomed like a
	smile through tears,	 
And loving words from noble hearts, that loved her all her
	years.
And she like one who lay asleep conscious of guardian
	care—
Not as though death, but bliss, had loosed the spirit hover-
	ing there.

Missed?  Yes, we miss her as though none had thought the
	time could come
Those queenly eyes could lose their light, that voice could
	e’er be dumb,
I think we all with reverent faith believed she would be
	here
When Zion’s flag should proudly fly o’er all our vales so
	dear,

[column 2]
When hymns of glad and glorious praise proclaim us blest
	and free,
In peace and union saved at last from error’s tyranny.
Sweet be her sleep and sweet her joy, when waking she
	shall see
The lessons sown in earthly paths bloom in eternity.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Dec. 21, 1887.


[Column 1]
A CHRISTMAS FLOWER.

	It was Christmas Eve, and the city was all
astir.  The busy throng, with arms heavily
laden, were passing to and fro; gay greetings
were heard from every side, mingled, occasion-
ally, with the piteous cry of the beggar, or the
entreaty of the street wender.  From the win-
dows of shops and dwellings the lights shone
until a late hour.  The bright laugh, the merry
voice, the tramp of feet, the jingling bells, the
rolling wheels, the sounds of music, the occa-
sional whistle from the boats flying along the
river, all mingled in a dreamy, muffled sound,
like the approach of a huge army towards the
city.  It was the heralding of Santa Claus
with his hosts of assistants, about to beseige
the homes all over the Christian world, and for
one day, at least, overturn and upset all the
domestic arrangements.
	This eventful night was to be celebrated, at
least at one fashionable house, by a grand ball,
the day being the anniversary, as well as
Christmas, of the birth of the fair daughter of
this home.  And fair she was; almost without
an equal.  Perfect in form and feature, the
embodiment of grace and womanliness, and
with all, a disposition and nature so spirituelle,
humble and irresistible, that she alike charmed
and delighted all who met her; to see her once
but led to the desire to know her, and to know
was to love, almost adore her.
	She stood, to-night, in front of a table strewn
with flowers, delicately and tastily arranged, in
a quandary which to wear, all were so beautiful.
	“I am sure,” said her fond mother, “as your
dress is so simple and plain, that this bouquet
of various colored roses (lifting the flowers sent
by the suitor she most favored) would become
you most.”
	“I think these gerainums lovelier than any-
thing on white; do wear them, Alice,” said her
sister.
	“It would be better not to offend anyone to-
night and as I cannot wear them all, I prefer
only this white camelia, which my little invalid
friend sent me this morning; surely no one
could take offense at that; and let all these
flowers be arranged on the table near my stand-
ing place for to-night, and to-morrow they shall
be sent to brighten the dreary rooms of the
poor.”
	She did not yield, notwithstanding her
mother’s entreaties, but in her pretty white
costume, with the one camelia for ornament,
all the lovelier for her plainness, entered the
brilliantly decorated ball room.  In the sweetest
manner and gentlest way she received the many
friends who had assembled to greet her, and,
favoring no one especially, but all heartily,
passed pleasantly away the hours.  She loved
society dearly, still could not help but grieve
to see so much display of wealth for the mere
pleasure of an hour.  She announced to her
lady friends her intention of sending her flow-
ers to the sick and poor for Christmas cheering,
and they all were charmed with the idea, and
stripped their robes of the beautiful, costly

[Column 2]
ornaments and laid them on the different tables.
Alice felt very joyful with the thought that
her party had really reverted into a charity
ball, and might be the means of gladdening a
few lonely hearts.  The tables were heaped
with garlands and bouquets of most exquisite
flowers, and Alice was told to distribute them
as she chose.
	In every heart, however proud, is a kindly
chord, which yields to a delicate touch at
Christmas time, if only a player can be found
who understands the instrument, and Alice un-
derstood exactly the human heart; she had
made it her study, and could cause it to yield
tears and laughter, joy and sympathy with the
easiest, lightest words.  She had a faculty for
rendering people happy, and felt to-night that
she had caused her wealthy friends as great
joy by taking from them, as on the morrow she
would cause her poorer ones by giving to
them.
	The morning came, bright and cold.  Alice
started early on her rounds from house to house,
bestowing her gifts, her sweet smiles and
pleasant words on her needy friends.  What a
sweet, gracious Santa Claus she was!  No won-
der the people loved her.  At last she had
finished, all but one place, the home of her poor
little boy who had sent the camelia.  As she
reached the door she wondered how he came
by such a beautiful flower, for surely he had
none such among his pretty collection of window
plants.
	She found her little friend (for such she al-
ways called him), bolstered up in a chair, and
looking brighter and better than he ever had
before since she had known him.  Always for
many years he had been compelled to lie on his
bed, or in the large rolling chair, in which,
sometimes on a fair day, his widowed mother
would take him out.  It was on one of these
occasions that Alice first saw them, and was so
moved to pity by the languid appeal of his
large brown eyes, and the tired look of his
mother, that she ventured to address them, and
found out their condition; their name was
Warner, and they lived not far away in a poor,
but tidy row of tenement houses, and had no
means of support but the earnings of the
mother, who went out sewing, and so had to
leave her boy alone the whole day long, while
she toiled for their bread.
	“And how came your boy to be so sick?”
said Alice.
	“He fell over a little stool when only two
years old, and hurt his hip; at first, when his
father was alive, we had a doctor for him, and
believed he might be cured, but his father died,
and I had no means with which to retain the
physician, and he has grown up weak and help-
less, as you see; sometimes better, sometimes
worse, and in such pain that I could almost
pray to have him die; but then my loneliness
comes over me and I feel as though he must
live, and some day, perhaps, the Lord will help
me, so that he may be healed.”
	And this was their story, which so moved
Alice that she then and there pronounced her-
self their friend, and aided them in many ways,
by obtaining work for the mother, and helping
the little invalid to learn to read and write and
cut out pretty papers, for which she found a
sale, and thus he became a help to his mother,
and felt less the weight of his dependence.
     On this Christmas morning a great change
seemed to pervade the house; the boy was so
bright and cheerful, and the mother sang as


she carefully prepared the dinner.  Alice never
remembered seeing her so before, for she was
always repining and recalling the days “when
things went better, and she didn't have to work
so hard.” They seemed more pleased than
ever to see her this morning, not so much for
what she had brought them, but for the won-
derful news they had for her.  After the con-
fused and loud greeting, from which she was
able to comprehend nothing, Alice inquired
from Henry the meaning of it all, and how he
came to be sitting so upright, and what had
really happened; had they had a fortune left
them, or what?
	“No, dear Miss Alice,” replied the boy, “not
a fortune left us, but something brought to us
which we believe to be far greater and better.”
And then he explained how a young man had
knocked at their door yesterday, and asked if
he might come in and warm himself. “We
were much surprised to see a strong, handsome
fellow, quite well dressed, asking for shelter as
though he were poor.”
	“Perhaps,” said Alice, “he was worse than
poor; maybe he is wicked and robs the poor of 
what little savings they possess.”
	“Oh, no!” said Henry. “If only you could
hear him and see what he can do; he says he is
not poor, but has a beautiful home and kind
relatives and friends in a far distant land, but
that he has been sent out in the world, like
many other of his friends, to proclaim glad
tidings, that he brings news that the Gospel of
Christ has been restored, and to entreat the
people to repent, to have faith and believe, to
turn from the world and gather to this beauti-
ful land where he lives—the land of Zion, he
calls it.”
	“He must be an impostor,” said Alice, “oh,
don’t have him here, he will ruin you both, I
am sure.”
	“You would not think like that if you could 
but see how humble and good he is, “besides ”
answered the boy, with a hot blush mounting
his lace, “do you not see that he has almost
made me well? and he tells us that he thinks I
can be healed; that he knows of many instances
where his friends have caused as great afflic-
tions as mine to be instantly cured.  And, then, 
why would he leave a pleasant home and travel
on foot in a strange land, without means, even
as the Savior and His disciples did, if he were
not good and”—but here he stopped speaking,
for, raising his eyes, he saw an offended look on
his fair listener’s face, and thought, perhaps, 
he had spoken too hastily and sharply, and it
grieved him to think he had wounded one who
was always so kind to him; but Alice never
bore resentment, and thought best to turn the
subject, for she had little doubt still in her own 
mind but that her friends had been taken in,
so to speak, and she brightly asked Henry,
“Where did you obtain that beautiful flower
you sent me yesterday?  Do you know it was
the only ornament I wore last night, and that
I have it still in my room looking as fresh as
ever."
	The boy blushed again, for he did not wish
to tell her that the very young man whom she
thought so poorly of had purchased it for him
to send, but his mother, only too eager to tell
anything in his favor, quickly replied:
	“Why, Miss Alice, our new friend, hearing
Henry raving about you, as he always is, and
almost crying because he had no birthday gift
for you, kindly offered to get him something,
and suggested a pure white flower, which he
most beautifully said, if you were the being
Henry declared you to be, would be a fitting
present, and you would, doubtless, have too
many fancy presents to please you anyhow.”
	This was almost too much for Alice, and she
rose and coolly left them, for she was hurt and 
grieved to think she had worn the flower from
a perfect stranger—doubtless some vagabond—
with such perfect ease, despite her mother’s and
sister’s entreaties.  She had not gone far before
her heart relented to the sick child, though
with the mother she had no patience, and she
turned back to say a few kind words and let
her boy see she bore him no ill feeling.  Her
surprise was very great, as she re-entered the
room, to see a tall, handsome young man sitting
holding, quite tenderly, Henry’s poor thin 
hands, and she stood for a moment as though
riveted to the spot.  Surely, thought she, this
is strange; he does not look as though he needed
anything, and that frank, kind look in his face
does not speak deceit.  She apologized for com-
ing back, and was about to leave again, when
the young stranger gently requested that she
remain a moment, and to her own wonder, for
under other circumstances such a request from
a stranger, in her friend’s house, would have
seemed a mark of insolence, she seated herself
and awaited his pleasure.  He soon told her
that her little friend had made him acquainted
with the occurrences of the morning, and he
was greatly pained that he should have been
the means of bringing discord or ill feeling
where such love existed, and she need not be
offended about the flower, as it was Henry’s
gift, and he only performed the part of errand
boy in purchasing it, as Henry was unable to
go out himself; doubtless her other flowers,
pointing to the ones she had left for Henry,
were purchased in a similar way, messengers
taking the orders to the florists.  How gently
and sweetly he spoke, and yet how firmly; no
wonder, thought Alice, that these poor people
are elated; then they speak of restoring Henry’s
health, I forgot to ask about that, perhaps he
is a physician; I will inquire:
	“How is it that my young friend has so far
recovered, are you a doctor?”
	“No,” replied the stranger, “not of medicine,
but I try to carry with me enough faith to effect
some cures, and touch the souls of a few honest
people.” He then explained his mission, as we
have heard Henry tell before, only more ex-
plicitly and described the power of healing by
anointing with oil and prayer. “But I detain
you,” said he at length, “and your Christmas
will be passed from home; my friends here have
kindly offered me a Christmas dinner, after
which I must renew my journey, for I have an
appointment to-morrow many miles from here,
and must get an early start, or shall not be 
able to reach there.”
	“And do you really travel all the time on
foot? and where will you stay to-night”
	“Wherever night overtakes me, and we walk
most of the time, as in that way we can bear a
testimony and give a warning to all we meet,
that is, all who will listen.”
	“And when will you return here again?”
	“Next week. I hope to re-visit my friends
here, and find them prepared to receive further
instructions, perhaps baptism.”
	Alice surprised herself by the way she had
lingered, but now, feeling oh, far happier than
when she left before, again bade them and her
new acquaintance goodbye.
	She did not reveal what had happened to her
parents, for she knew them to be so worldly, and
she dreaded their sneers.  Already they thought
her too philanthropic, and, as they termed it,
sanctimonious; and besides, she remembered her
own incredulity, and how offended she became
with her poor friends for believing in this
stranger, and now she herself was just as firmly
convinced of his sincerity and truth as they
had been; she scarcely dared allow herself to
think of the impression he had made and the
words he had said, but her soul was full of de-
light, and her lovely eyes bespoke the bright
thoughts that possessed her.
	That night she laid, among some other treas-
ures, that beautiful white flower, and smilingly 
repeated to herself, "A pure white flower
would be a most fitting gift for such a one.”
Alice spent most of the time the following week

[Column 3]

with her poor friends, reading the books the
stranger had left them and talking the subject
over with them.  At last the week had ended,
and all three, fully convinced of the teachings
they had read, anxiously awaited the stranger’s
return.  A day, almost another week passed,
and still he did not come, and Alice began first
to wonder, then doubt, and then, as in her
dreams, the kind, gentle face appeared before
her, and she began to fear that some evil had
befallen him.  At length he came, but how
changed; her fears were realized.  The night he
left them he had failed to procure a resting
place, and many doors had been fastened
against him; all that long, cold night he walked,
and the exposure had given him such a cold
that he had not been able to return before.
Perhaps it was just as well, he said, for pity
had opened another door for him, and in another
home had he found honest hearts awaiting the
message he had to bring.
	It is needless here to relate his great joy and
satisfaction when he learned the effect his
teachings and books had had upon them, but
he accepted his good fortune in a grave and 
reverent manner, and the first thing he did
was to offer praise and thanksgiving to the
Lord for his success.  With Alice he was very
grave indeed, and pointed out her great risk
in adopting a faith contrary to her parents’
wishes; she ought, at least, to let them have the
same privilege as she had herself; they could
do no more than refuse to believe, as many
others had done.  Alice knew this was right,
and she liked him all the more for his frank
advice; she had feared to tell her parents, feel-
ing that they would ridicule her new friend
and perhaps deny her the privilege of seeing
him again, but now she would tell them all.
It had caused her considerable pain to think
that she had deceived them in anything.  That
night she waited long for an opportunity to
speak with them alone, but the evening wore
away without an opportunity, and at last, al-
most in tears, Alice retired to her chamber,
followed by her sister, who had noticed her
anxiety, and into her ears Alice poured the
whole story.
	“’Tis not the religion, Alice, that exercises
you so,” her sister replied, “your heart is
touched, you are in love, and are willing to
believe anything that man tells you, even if he
told you black was white. That’s what your 
philanthropy has led you into; I always thought
you were going too far, and told mamma as
much.”
	Poor Alice, what could she say?  She did not
believe she was in love, still she knew her new
friend held a certain influence over her, which
she could not define, and rebel as she might
against her sister’s injustice, she knew she
would have the same to meet from father and
mother.  That night she offered up a piteous
prayer, for she saw that in her happy, comfort-
able home a storm was rising, and she believed
herself to be the fault, yet she also knew that
something more had entered her life, something 
that, even for them, she could not resign.  In
the morning she sent a note, asking Mrs. War-
ner to conduct her new friend to her home and
she would introduce him to her parents.  They
came, and he spoke with them, but, alas! with
what results.  The mother wept and wailed, and
declared the fellow had tried to lead her beauti-
ful child astray, and he and his friends, as he
called them, were breaking up peaceful homes
and scattering distress wherever they went.
The father turned them out, and in a very
fierce manner, threatened to punish him severely
if ever again he heard of him interfering with
his family.
	Alice ceased visiting with her poor friends,
and tried to be reconciled to her home, but in
vain, and when, at the end of a month, her
little boy Henry (he could walk now), brought
her a note, she was overjoyed.  It was very


brief, written only to say that the missionaries
would occasionally visit near, and at certain
periods performed baptisms, and if her con-
science told her to accept the Gospel that she
might confer with them through the Warners,
who were now fully convinced, and had a great
testimony in the healing of Henry, which
would be a testimony unto her as well. Then
Henry told her how he had been anointed and
prayed for, and had improved, but was unable
to walk, and the missionary himself carried
him into the stream of water, where he was
baptized, and that immediately after that or-
dinance he had walked out of the stream and
had had no trouble ever since; “And as soon as
we can we are going to leave this place and
gather to Zion.”
	Her life at home seemed empty now, and she
resolved to explain all to her parents. She
had tried to forget her new faith and be the
same as usual, all to no use, and they must let
her choose for herself. She announced her de-
termination to her father, and strove to explain
how hard the struggle was to give up either
faith or home, and she begged him, as no child
ever plead before, to be lenient, and consider
her position, not to judge harshly, but to let
her love them and have their love the same as
ever, nay, she knew that now she loved them
more. Her pleadings and tears were alike
unavailing, and she had her choice, either to
give up her religion or her home. If she clung
to the first, he would have no more of her, and
she might go to her new found friends, she was
no daughter of his. She bowed to his will,
and left her home, not without great sorrow,
for she recalled her happy childhood and girl-
hood, the fond indulgence of her parents, and
as she placed together the few necessary arti-
cles she was to take with her, her heart ached
and bitter tears poured down her cheeks. Her
sister and mother were most scornful, for they
believed she would relent and return in a few
hours, and could not think her so sincere in
her belief as to leave such a home of luxury
for poverty, perhaps distress, but they little felt
the inducements the Gospel held, and could not
realize that worldly wealth faded into insignifi-
cence compared with the light and life which
had been revealed to her. Her father refused
to see her again, but her mother, tenderly re-
lenting, as she was about to leave, held her in
her arms and told her if ever she desired she
should come back to them; she gave her, also,
what ready money she had, and offered every
inducement if only she would remain and yield
to their wishes. This was a bitter trial to
Alice, but she knew sacrifices had to be made,
and that she could never feel the same again
if she remained at home, for she could not give
up a religion which held so much for her. She
kissed her mother and thanked her, and asked
for her blessing, and “whereever I am, dearest
mother, I shall always think of thee and this
last hour, and may your hearts be softened,
that you will receive me home again.” With
these words they parted, and the poor girl
heard her father’s door close behind her never
to be re-opened. How lonely it seemed, how
dreary in the street; twice she turned, as though
to retrace her steps, and each time something
whispered, “Do not turn back; the way looks
dark, but it will brighten as you proceed.” At
length she reached Mrs. Warner’s humble home
and told them her story. They were only too
glad to be able to do something for one who had
helped and befriended them so long.
	That night, towards midnight, when all was
hushed and still, with only the stars to light
them, and only the angels to guide them, a
small party wended their way to the river banks.
A beautiful prayer was there offered, and then
Alice’s stranger-friend, with head uncovered,
walked into the midst of the stream, a com-
anion of his followed, leading a young man
by the hand; they blessed and immersed him,

[Column 2]
even as it was done in the Savior’s time, and
then Alice herself was led forth and received
the same ordinance. She walked from the
water with hope revived, regrets all banished;
she had entered a new life, and her soul was
filled with most ecstatic joy.
	’Tis many years now since that sweet and
sacred night, and Alice has found her a new
home in a new land. She left old England
shortly after her baptism, and came a stranger
to Zion, but kind hearts were ready to receive
her. She never had many regrets, for, after
informing her friends of her baptism, they re-
fused to see her again; only her sister saw her
the night before she sailed.
	Two years after her arrival she became the
wife of the dear friend who had first brought
her the Gospel, and who declared he loved
her and felt as though she would be his the
first moment his eyes rested upon her.
	“Why, then,” replied she, “did you never tell
me before I came away?”
	“Can you not see, Alice, if I had brought
my own feelings before you, that your parents’
claim would have been verified, and you might
have believed me an impostor, claiming a new
faith to help me to win you? No; it was my
mission to teach the Gospel, and your gentle
yet firm way of receiving it afforded me great
happiness, and proved you to be free from
vanity and worldliness.”
	’Twas Christmas Eve, and all was quiet in
Alice’s home; the members of the household
walked with cautious step and spoke in an un-
dertone, for in one chamber of the house lay
our sweet Alice, with a tiny babe nestling in
her arms. She brightly returned her husband’s
smile. and whispered,
	“We will call our little one Camelia, our
Christmas Flower. It was that flower which
first led me to the Gospel, and to you, and per-
haps this little flower may be the means of
leading my family to us.”
	And she was, not all of them, for; the Christ-
mas which brought the little flower to earth,
took to another world Alice’s mother. After
this bereavement the father's heart softened,
and as the baby fingers first began to write,
and sent for grandpa to come, he obeyed, and,
with his remaining daughter, who always had
believed Alice to be right, but had not the
force to follow her, sought a refuge in the home
of the daughter he had so cruelly driven forth;
but he atoned to the little one for it all, and
“Grandpa’s pet is the purest, fairest little
flower a Christmas ever brought.”
	Annie K. Cannon ANNIE


106	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


07	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BELLS ARE RINGING.

Ringing! ringing! ringing as they rang
	Long, long ago!
With echoing peal and merry clang
	They come and go!
The children have played and sung, and laughed and
	wept,
And then grown old, and laid them down and slept;
And still, as the hours onward flow,
The bells are ringing for joy or woe!

Singing! chiming! pealing!—such a song
	Of joy and mirth!
Waking up echoes slumbering long
	Within the earth,—
Telling their tale of love, and hope, and happy days,—
From hill to valley the glad song they raise.
And still, as the hours come and go,
The bells are ringing for joy or woe!
Swinging sadly, solemnly, a mournful tone,
	Telling of death!
Of sorrowful hearts, that must wander alone
	On this weary earth;
Of silent forms. and hands that lie at rest,
Of voices forever hushed in a passionless breast;
While the changing hours come and go,
And the bells are ringing for joy or woe!


Softly rising and falling, at eventide
		Ring out the bells,
O'er the golden valleys far and wide
		Their music swells. 
And the children stop in their play; and stand to hear,
And the aged look up with a qui[-]t smile and a tear.
As they think of the hours that come and go,
While the bells are ringing for joy or woe!

Ringing! ringing! ringing. in the still night,
		A joyful chime !
While the world lies sleeping, robed in white, 
		At Christmas time,—	
Telling, with fresh sweet tones, the glad old story. 
Bringing a faint, soft echo from the land of glory
While the changing hours come and go,
And the bells are ringing for joy or woe!

Ringing! ringing! ringing, o’er the city
		With its mighty throng!
Soothing some hearts, all sad and weary,
		With their happy song.
Rising above the sin and sorrow, want and care,
Above the sounds of strife that fill the air;
And still, as the hours come and go,
The bells are ringing for joy or woe!

Ringing! ringing! ringing! recalling fast
		Old days gone by;
Unlocking the fair, green shadowy past
		To memory’s eye.
Telling of high resolve,—of longings noble, free,
Of golden moments gone by unheedingly! 
Of the changing hours that come and go,— 
Of their ever ringing for joy or woe!

Ringing! ringing! ringing ! still ring on,
		O, old-time bells! 			 
With tender pathos to each living one.
		Your music tells
That beauty, wealth, and joy must fade and die,
That man must spend his days as for eternity,
Where the changing hours will cease to flow,
Where ’tis never ringing for joy or woe!


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Miss C. Elbe has passed a successful examina-
tion in dentistry in Sweden.

	Mr. Blair, of New Hampshire, has intro-
duced in the U. S. Senate a bill for a constitu-
tional amendment giving suffrage to women.

	God openeth many hearts with gentle pick-
locks, while with others He useth the crowbar
of terrible judgments.— C. H. Spurgeon.

	Let grace and goodness be the principal load-
stone of thy affections. For love which hath
ends will have an end; whereas that which is
founded on true virtue will always continue.— 
Dryden.
	We can be thankful to a friend for a few
acres, or a little money; and yet for the freedom
and command of the whole earth, and for the
great benefits of our being, our life health and
reason, we look upon ourselves as under no obli-
gation.—Seneca.
	Pundita Ramabai is meeting with good suc-
cess in her effort to raise funds for a school to
educate Hindoo widows, who in turn shall
educate their countrywomen. “Ramabai
Circles” have been formed to raise money for
her during the next ten years, after which it is
hoped that the school will be self-supporting.
Rev. E. F. Hale, Phillips Brooks, and others
are at the head of the central organization, and
branches are forming all over the country. The
one at Cornell has already a large membership,
and there are circles in Chicago, Sioux Falls
and elsewhere. Everyone who has read her
heart-breaking book, “The High Caste Hindu
Woman,’' must wish the brave little lady suc-
cess in her work for her unfortunate country-
women,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms: 
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten 
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	
	SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15, 1887.


[Column 1]
﻿ELIZA ROXIE SNOW SMITH.

A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION.

	Early on the morning of Monday, December
5th, 1887, in the Lion House, Salt Lake City, at
five minutes past one o’clock, the spirit of our be-
loved “Sister Eliza” passed away from earth, as
she herself had so beautifully expressed,
“To unite with the choirs in celestial love.'
Among the sisters over whom she presided she
was spoken of as “The Elect Lady,” and was
reverenced as the title indicated wherever the
organizations of the Latter-day Saint women ex-
isted. Her name is engraved imperishably in the
hearts of this people. Her life and character were
in perfect keeping with the holy religion she had
embraced. Her example is before all Israel, and
accords harmoniously with the teachings she has
given, and the precepts she has taught.
	Her days were lengthened out far beyond the
three score and ten, but they were filled up with 
usefulness, good works and noble deeds.
	Her condition, for some considerable time past,
has been that of failing health and waning strength,
yet her friends, especially those who were fondly 
attached to her, could scarcely believe she was so
soon to leave them. There was no disease prey-
ing upon her system, but slowly from day to day
she grew weaker, until it became evident to those
around her, she was about to join the ranks of
those who have fought the good fight and over-
come. And there is no doubt but “commissioned
escorts were waiting by” to accompany her to “a
glorious mansion” on high, where Joseph, the
Prophet, her husband, whom she loved and hon-
ored, was awaiting her coming with joyous antici-
pation, and where she would meet her father and
mother, and sister Leonora, to whom she was most
strongly attached, and many others near and dear,
with whom she had labored here, and blessed and
comforted. It is our loss, but her great gain. We
shall miss her in the labors devolving upon the
sisters more than words can tell; she was a leader,
an organizer, and her counsel was of the wisest
and best. Her judgment was par excellence, and
her words always choice and well-spoken. Her
self-poise and dignity of bearing were as notice-
able in everyday life as on great occasions. She
possessed many rare gifts and accomplishments,
and had cultivated them to the highest degree pos-
sible under the circumstances with which she had
been surrounded from time to time. The gift of
poesy may be considered the highest of her intel-
lectual qualities, but the influence for good that
she exerted for the benefit of others, more es-
pecially her own sex, both by instruction and ex-
ample, was what constituted her more truly great
than any poem she has written. Her exemplary
life and purity of character was not only, as Elder
Nicholson expressed it, “from beginning to close
a beautiful poem,” but was the poem of poems of
all, in itself the most complete and perfect. “A
Pen Sketch” of her life and labors was published
during her life-time in the EXPONENT a few years

[Column 2]
ago, but since that time she has traveled in the
several Stakes of Zion, and assisted greatly in de-
veloping the latent talent existing among the asso-
ciations, and encouraging that perseverance which
ever ensures success, Her words of kindness to
the young, and her tender solicitation for their
spiritual and eternal welfare should never be for-
gotten by any who have had the pleasure and
honor of sitting under the sound of her voice.
Notwithstanding the sketch of Sister Eliza, pub-
lished heretofore in these columns, it is but a
fitting tribute to her memory to review briefly her
public work, and to give a short memorial of her-
self.
	Eliza R. Snow was born at Becket, Berkshire
Co., Mass., January 21st, 1804. Her parents were
Oliver Snow of Mass., and Rosetta Leonora Petti-
bone of Conn. She was the second child of her
parents; Leonora A. Snow was the eldest. Leonora
was afterwards the wife of the Patriarch Isaac
Morley, who became identified with the Church at
a very early period of its history. Sister L. A.
Morley died at her brother Lorenzo’s home, in
Brigham City, Feb. 11th, 1872. The two sisters
were affectionately devoted to each other, and the
death of Sister Leonora was a sad blow to Sister
Eliza, leaving her more lonely, and causing her,
no doubt, to cling more fondly still to her favorite
brother, the Apostle, Lorenzo Snow. The rela-
tion of this brother and sister to each other has
been that of the most sublime and perfect devo-
tion.
	In 1806 Oliver Snow, with his wife and two
children, Leonora and Eliza, removed to Ohio and
settled in Mantua, Portage Co. It seems scarcely
necessary to say here, that the girls, Leonora and
Eliza, received the most careful and complete edu-
cation in the best schools of the day, and also ex-
cellent home-training under the management of a 
wise and judicious mother; these together laid the
foundation of a useful and honorable life.
	Early in her girlhood Miss Eliza R. Snow be-
came known and somewhat celebrated for her
poetical effusions, and even though young, she
chose lofty and exalted themes. She created quite
a sensation by writing at the time of the struggle
between Greece and Turkey, a poem, entitled,
"The Fall of Missilonghi." It is well known, to
all familiar with the history of this people, that
since Sister Eliza became a member of this 
Church she has devoted her best thoughts and her
pen to poems and writings upon the subjects and
themes of the Latter-day Saints; and in the midst
of trials, hardships, persecutions and difficulties
of various kinds, her mission has been to comfort, 
encourage, strengthen and bless, in the rare gift of 
poesy, all who labor for Zion and promote its in-
terests at home or abroad. She was baptized on
the 5th of April, 1835, and in December of the 
same year went to Kirtland, and boarded in the
family of the Prophet. While residing in the 
Prophet's house she taught his children in the ca-
pacity of governess, and was an intimate compan-
ion of Emma, the Prophet's wife. During her
sojourn in the home of the Prophet Joseph, the
friendship began which many years after-
wards ripened into the purest love, crowning
their union as husband and wife in the holy bonds
of matrimony. Sister Eliza enjoyed the blessings
and privileges vouchsafed to the Saints in the
Kirtland Temple at the time of its dedication, and 
on many other occasions, when gifts and
manifestations of the Spirit were so richly poured
out upon the assembled gatherings in that sacred
place.
	When the Saints moved up to Missouri. Sister
Eliza went thither with her father's family, arriving
in Far West, Caldwell, Co., Mo., on the 16th of 
July, 1837. In that State the Saints suffered
severe and cruel persecutions, and Sister Eliza
participated in the sorrows and afflictions. On
the 10th of December, 1838, in the cold bleak
winter weather, Sister Eliza, with her father's

[Column 3]

family, left her home in Davies Co., Mo., where
her father had purchased lands and settled,
having been ordered by the Governor of the State
to leave within ten days. The benevolent attri-
butes and sympathies of Sister Eliza, and in fact
the whole Snow family, were fully aroused at this
time in witnessing the pathetic scenes of sorrow
and of suffering that the Saints were called upon
to endure in that time of excessive trial. The 
family of Bro. Snow left Far West, whither they
had gone during the times of persecution, on the 
5th of March, 1839; the weather was then very
cold, but they were exiles driven from their homes
and possessions. Sister Eliza and her sister
Leonora stopped in Quincy, Ill, and Bro. Snow
and family went to the northern part of that State.
In Quincy Sister Eliza wrote some very character-
istic articles for the press, and received very press-
ing solicitations to contribute other poetical 
articles. It was thought a novelty to find such
rare genius in a "Mormon" girl. From Quincy
the Misses Snow went to Lima, and there, for a 
time, supported themselves with needlework, in
which art Sister Eliza excelled, and of which pur-
suit she was very fond. In July Sidney Rigdon
sent for Miss E. R. Snow to come up to Commerce,
afterwards called Nauvoo, to teach his family 
school. In Nauvoo many important events oc-
curred, which have had a bearing upon her life
ever after. It was in Nauvoo that she wrote the
most sublime and lofty poetry, and an inspiration 
from on high seemed resting upon her constantly.
The revelations of God were poured out in rich
abundance at that time upon the Prophet Joseph, 
and Sister Eliza, in her poetie sentiments, seemed 
to share in the inspiration from above.
	At this period a new era dawned upon woman;
marriage and motherhood were supremely glorified
and eternal principles were revealed, and blessings
and eternal principles were revealed, and blessings
and privileges bestowed upon the faithful, great
in their future promise, not only for time but
reaching into the eternities to come.
	It was about this time that Sister Eliza com-	
posed "The Invocation," which so beautifully
portrays the home of our Father and Mother in
heaven, and so forcibly impresses the idea of
celestial union upon the Latter-day Saints, and
many strangers even, when they hear it sung for
the first time. These sublime sentiments, so
beautifully given, have been like a sweet and 
grateful incense to the hearts of many who yearned
for some expression of the intense emotion they
had not language to define. The hymn is full of
tenderness, and yet the strength of language carries
conviction with the words, The gift of prophecy 
is noticeable in the writings of this eminent
woman, and always seemed to fall gracefully from
either her lips or her pen.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow was Secretary of the Relief
Society organized in Nauvoo (of which Emma
Smith was President),  and she preserved the re-
cords, which have been quite important for refer-
ence many times since. The Prophet and other
leading men were in the habit of meeting with
the sisters there and giving valuable advice and
instruction. In July 1842, Miss Snow, the Secre
tary, had the honor of writing a petition to Gov.
Carlin, asking his protection for Joseph Smith. 
This petition was met with enthusiasm, and 
received the unanimous vote of the Relief Society,
and was signed by several hundred ladies. The
President, Mrs Emma Smith, Mrs. Amanda Smith
and Miss E. R. Snow were a committee to call up-
on the Governor at his residence in Quincy, Ill.
He received them cordially, and with great courtesy
listened to the purport of their visit, which was
presented by Mrs. E. Smith, and her Secretary 
presented the petition. The Governor responded
kindly, and gave assurances of his protection, say-
ing emphatically, "I believe Mr. Smith is inno-
cent." The ladies afterwards learned that at the
very time he was giving these assurances to them,


[Column 1]
he was plotting with Missouri officials for the de-
struction of the Prophet.
	Joseph Smith taught the principle of celestial
marriage to Miss Snow, and she believed his in-
spired words and became his wife in that holy
order of matrimony, and felt that no sacrifice was 
too great to establish again on earth the new and
and everlasting covenant of marriage, through the
holy order of the Melchisedec Priesthood. In the
Temple at Nauvoo Sister Eliza received a fulness
of the ordinances and blessings that were given
in that sacred house of the Lord. At the time of
the exodus she came with the first company that
left Nauvoo in February, and crossed the Missis-
sippi in the company of Col. Stephen Markham 
and family, and camped with thousands of others
who were living in tents and wagons preparatory
to starting on the journey to the Rocky Mountains.
On the 19th of February, 1846, she wrote a poem,
expressing the condition of the exiles; and after-
wards, again and again, poetry possessing origin-
ality and graphically describing the scenes and 
incidents in the lives and journeyings of the
Saints. Col. Markham stopped by the way, as 
did many others, to put in grain and make settle-
ments of those who were to follow. On the 19th 
of August they left Mt. Pisgah minus a teamster,
and Sister Markham falling sick, Sister Eliza was
left to drive. She said she soon learned to "haw
and gee," and acquitted herself creditably. On
the 27th they crossed the Missouri River at Council
Bluffs, and the next day arrived at Winter Quar-
ters. With the continued hardship and constant 
exposure Sister Eliza's health broke down, a slow 
fever set in and chills and fever followed, and she
lay in the wagon very ill; the heavy autumnal rains 
came on, and she was often dripping wet from 
head to foot; she herself realized her condition,
and that she was near the gates of death. She
summoned all her energies, and supreme faith came  
to her aid, though many died in consequence of
the priyation and hardships. When Sister Eliza 
was still ill and very feeble, she received the sad 
news of her mother's death. She bore it with the
patience and resignation characteristic of her
whole life, though she grieved that she could
never again behold her again in the flesh.
	In June, 1847, after the Pioneers had started
enroute to the Rocky Mountains to seek out a 
resting place for the Saints, Sister Eliza continued 
her pilgrimage with the family of Bro. Robert
Pearce, in the company under charge of Captain
Jedediah M. Grant. When this company would
find the track of the pioneers, and here and there
"all well" on a bleached buffalo skull, there was a 
general time of rejoicing. This company arrived 
in the valley early in October, and President
Young had made arrangements for Sister Eliza to 
live, with Sister Clara D. Young, who had accom-
panied him in the pioneers, and from that time un-
til her death Sister Eliza resided with the family of
Brigham Young, and after the Lion House was
built she lived there permanently until her death.
	Sister Eliza was designated by Joseph Smith
the Prophet, "Zion's Poetess," a title she has al-
ways retaiaed, and from time to time she has con-
tinued to write, to within a few months of her de-
mise. When the Relief Society was reorganized
in the valleys here, President Young gave Sister
Eliza a mission to assist the bishops in organizing,
and to take with her as a help and counselor Sis-
ter Zina D. Young. From that time to this she
has labored earnestly and faithfully in the interests 
of the women of Zion, traveling from place to 
place in all kinds of weather, wherever there was
an opportunity of doing good among the people.
	In 1869 Prest. Young called upon Sister Eliza to 
aid him in effecting an organization of Young 
Ladies, commencing with his own daughters, in
which she assisted; it was called a Retrenchment 
Association. Resolutions were prepared by her,
which Prest. Young approved, setting forth the

[Column 2]

object of the members in meeting together. These 
organizations were afterwards called Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Associations, and have since
been organized in every ward in the several Stakes
of Zion.
	The next most important event in the life of 
Sister Eliza was her journey to the Holy Land.
Apostle Lorenzo Snow met her in Ogden, and
Prest. Geo. A. Smith joined the party in New
York. Sister E. R. S. S. left Salt Lake City on
the 26th of October, 1872. The company sailed
on the steamer Minnesota for Liverpool on the 6th 
of November.
	Sister Eliza's visits while in the Holy Land to 
the places of note are all graphically described in
the book entitled, "Correspondence of the Pales-
tine Toursits." We shall only mention her visit
to the Mount of Olives. On Sunday, March 2nd,  
1873, with Prest. George A. Smith and party, all
mounted on horseback, she ascended to the sum-
mit of that far-famed mountain. They had sent
before them tent, table, seats and carpet. The 
tent was pitched and service conducted there under 
the direction of the holy priesthood. It would be 
impossible to give in detail at this time the places 
she visited, or the poetic thoughts she poured
forth in verse, but she fully enjoyed visiting these
places noted in sacred history, and was always 
pleased to relate incidents concerning her travels
abroad, and particularly interested in conversing 
with those who had traveled over the same lands. 
Sister Eliza reached home on the evening of the
6th of July. In the EXPONENT of August 1st she 
published a "Salutation to the Ladies in Utah," ex-
pressing her joy, her good feeling and her sisterly
love, and on the 17th of August she addressed a 
very large assembly of ladies in the Ogden Taber-
nacle, and afterwards in Provo, and from that time 
onward, as long as she was physically able, she 
traveled among the people, organizing the sisters
encouraging and interesting them in the duties
pertaining to their missions here upon earth; and
the rich seed planted by her is bearing precious
fruit in the hearts and lives of the women and
children throughout the valleys of the mountains.
There are so many important events connected
with the life of Sister Eliza, when one reflects upon
the past, that they would fill volumes, and we need
only say that her whole life and energies were de-
voted and consecrated to the work of God upon the earth.
	At the Sisters' Quarterly Conference, held in the 
Assembly Hall in this city, June 19th, 1880, Prest. 
John Taylor nominated Sister E. R. S. Smith to
preside over the Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ in all the world, and she was sus-
tained by the unanimous vote of the conference.
She chose as her Counselors at that time Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who
were also nominated by Prest. Taylor and sus-
tained in like manner; Sister Sarah M. Kimball 
as Secretary, and Sister M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer, and at the General Conference in 
April, afterwards these sisters were sustained by 
unanimous vote. Sister Eliza has had many ova-
tions and tributes of honor, and she has proved 
worthy of all. She leaves behind her excellent
example and teachings, and her books, which will
preserve her memory ever fresh in the archives of
of the Church. Sister Eliza has ever been brave,
strong and unflinching in the positions she has 
held, and such a life needs no comment, for her
words and her works speak for her, but the
daughters of Zion should emulate her wise ex-
ample and follow in her footsteps.
		FUNERAL SERVICES.
	Sister Eliza's remains lay in the Lion House
parlor after her death until Wednesday morning,
Dec. 7th. The families of Lorenzo Snow and
Brigham Young assembled at the Lion House on 
that morning; also many of her intimate friends
and co-laborers, and these followed in procession 
to the Assembly Hall. The coffin, which was of

[Column 3]

native wood, highly polished, was carried by the
members of the High Council of this Stake, un-
der the direction of Prest. Angus M. Cannon.
The congregation assembled there was very large, 
and no woman could have more respect paid her
than was given to this distinguished woman--
Zion's Poetess and The Elect Lady.
	The organ and the speakers' stands were draped
in white, in accordance with the wishes of the de-
ceased, and long sprays of green vines were hung
in such a way as to give a graceful and pretty ef-
fect to the drapery. Vases of flowers were
placed here and there upon the stands. On and
around the coffin, which rested in front of the 
Bishops' stand, were choice flowers in the most
beautiful designs, wreaths, crosses, anchors,
crowns, etc., the gifts of loving friends, and a 
sheaf of ripe wheat, tied with white ribbon, em-
blematic of her ripe age, and that her work was 
finished. Prest. Angus M. Cannon conducted 
the services. The choir sang the hymn beginning,
		"I know that my Redeemer lives."
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Alexander Mc-
Rae.
	The choir sang the beautiful hymn composed 
by Sister Eliza herself. 
		"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest,"
		PRESIDENT ANGUS M. CANNON.
	The sentiments we have just heard sung are 
sublime sentiments of devotion to our God. Our 
sister, whose casket lies before us, was well quali-
fied to come to earth at the time of her advent.
From the time she heard the inspired utterances
of the Prophet, her efforts were solely directed to
sustaining the servants of God. Her poetic muse
took the most exquisite flights. When her voice 
has been heard it has been heard stimulating her
sisters to glorify the Creator. The speaker had 
been intimately acquainted with the deceased of
late years, more so than formerly, although in 
boyhood he had looked upon her as among the
noblest of her sex. She was fitted to be the wife 
of the great Prophet of the Nineteenth century. 
Her husband had given his life's blood for the 
cause of redemption. She had followed his
teachings faithfully. Of late her heart had been
moved by a prospect of her brethren and sisters
having to pass through great tribulation, before
the deliverance of the Saints should be accom-
plished. The speaker paid a glowing tribute to 
the worth of the departed, who was exemplary 
and noble in every particular during her earthly
probation.
		ELDER JOSEPH C. KINGSBURY
endorsed every word already spoken concerning
our deceased sister, who was one of the earliest
to embrace the truth and the new and everlasting
covenant. She had made a sacrifice that had 
been accepted of the Lord. So also should we be
ready to make any sacrifice that may be required 
of us, that we may be justly entitled to a similar
reward.
		ELDER J. B. NOBLE.
	He was grateful for the opportunity to bear his
testimony to the worth of Sister Eliza. From the
commencement of her labors in this work he was
favored with her society. He crossed the desert 
from Nauvoo to this valley in her company. Her 
life has been one of the very highest grade. She 
has accomplished a mighty work in the fullest 
sense. It behooves us to look into our own 
hearts, that we may ascertain whether we also are
obeying the golden rule. He asked the blessing 
of the Lord upon the relatives and the sisters of
the deceased, that they may emulate her virtues,
and be worthy to associate with her in eternity.
		ELDER JACOB GATES
was glad of the opportunity of bearing testimony
to the goodness of the respected dead. It was
pleasing to see so large an assembly on this occa-


sion. Had known Sister Eliza for many years.
She was second to none of the prominent women
of this last dispensation. She nobly filled the
mission to which she was appointed in the early
rise of the Church. She never wavered nor fal-
tered, but her faith was onward and upward to
the very climax of human excellence. But a
short time hence and but few will remain who
were familiar with the Prophet Joseph Smith, but
the triumph of this work is approaching. What
we are now passing through is the work of purifi-
cation and preparation for the consummation of
the designs of God in relation to His people and
Church.
		APOSTLE JOHN W. TAYLOR
was thankful to hear the eulogies that had been
passed upon the deceased, whom he had known
from his infancy, although not closely acquainted
with her. She had finished her work, and would
reap her reward accordingly. The works of Sis-
ter Smith are before us all. We can pattern after
them with profit. She embraced the everlasting
Gospel and is entitled to the promise given by the
Redeemer in relation to those who forsake earthly
relatives and interests for His sake. As George
Washington is called the father of his country, so
is our sister entitled,in a certain sense,to be desig-
nated the mother of this people. Her career
makes the endearing title appropriate as applied
to her. She would continue to live in the hearts
and memories of the Saints.
		ELDER MILO ANDRUS
said hehad been acquainted with Sister Eliza for 45
years. He had never seen a speck that would in-
dicate a misstep in her life. He bore testimony to
the goodness and virtues she had exhibited during
her sojourn on earth. This occasion was not a
subject of mourning. Thousands will call her
mother in Israel and enjoy her society forever.
When she meets the acts she performed on the
earth, she will be able to confront the record with-
out hesitation; therefore all is well. In all the
tribulations and hardships suffered by the Saints
on the deserts and elsewhere, the speaker had
never observed a symptom of a murmur from the
deceased. Such a statement could be made in re
lation to but few.
			ELDER A. O. SMOOT.
	Words of eulogy would fail to add anything to
the characteristics of Sister Smith. She has been
known in the Church almost from the beginning,
and is well known to the present generation
What I might say in relation to my acquaintance
with her would not affect her condition. She has
testified in various ways to the excellence and
power of truth. She has done this not only by
precept, but also by example, which speaks in
louder tones. It is but little use to repeat the
story of her good works. Let us endeavor to so
live that we will meet her with Joseph, Hyrum
and David Patten—the martyrs who have sacri-
ficed their lives for the truth’s sake.
		ELDER JOHN NICHOLSON
said, in substance, that the whole being of the
departed had been devoted to the legitimate pur-
pose of the Creator. Her works were the pro-
duct of a proper and active use of a bright intellect,
a keen moral susceptibility, and a sympathetic
nature. Many of her mental productions are left
to us clothed in all the beauty that chaste language
and poetic imagery could give them. Her whole
life, being of an elevated character, was from be-
ginning to close, a beautiful poem.
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY
said he would not attempt to say a hundredth part
of what he felt. It fell to his lot, on two oc-
casions, during the last illnes of our sister, to lay
hands upon her head and bless her in the name
of the Lord. He could not but mark the flow of the

[Column 2]
Spirit, there being apparently no end to the prom- 
ises he felt to make her. She not only has the confidence of her earthly associates, but the ap-
proval of the Spirit of God, which cannot err.
She was one of the noble and great ones of the
earth. It was the lot of the deceased to be hon-
ored both of God and man This is not always
the case with the good and pure. She not only
held public position and trust, but she wisely, just-
ly and kindly used the powers with which she was
thus entrusted. She is not dead, but lives. May
God help us to emulate the example of our sister
who has left us for a holier shere.
		APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT,
Said nothing that could be expressed would add
to the record of Sister Eliza. He knew of no in-
dividual who was more worthy of eternal blessings.
Instead of mourning we may rejoice that one so
good and pure has gone home to reap a glorious
reward. It is a day of rejoicing to her. He had
been intimately acquainted with the departed from
his early youth, and had been the recipient of
many marks of kindness at her hands. Language
was inadequate to enable the speaker to express
himself as he wished. He set great store upon
the good examples of the faithful, which were
more potent than precepts. There was no exam-
ple ever set by Sister Eliza except that which was
of such a character that it could be profitably fol-
lowed. The speaker contemplated her career with
pleasure and was glad that she had gone to join
the ranks of the faithful and true, her work in this
life having been fully accomplished.
		PRESIDENT CANNON
explained some of the last wishes of the deceased.
She had desired that no one should be around her
in her last moments who was unable to control his
or her emotions. She wished that no mourning 
should be expressed. The emblems with which the stand were decorated were in accordance with 
her choice. She maintained to the last that woman-
ly serenity and dignity that had characterized her 
entire career. She still lives in the organizations 
she was instrumental in establishing among her
sisters, and in the good which she had produced.
One of her beautiful traits was her humility, ex-
hibited in her submission to the instructions of her
brethren whose prerogative it was to direct her
labors.
	The choir sang the beautiful song composed by
the deceased:
	“Bury me quietly when I die,”
	Benediction by Patriarch John Smith.
	The congregation passed in line around the cas-
ket and viewed the face of the dead.
	The cortege which followed the remains to the
private cemetery of the late President Brigham
Young was formed under the direction of Bishop
John R. Winder. Members of the High Council
of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion acted as pallbear-
ers. Immediately following the casket were Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow and other relatives of the de-
ceased. then the widows of the late President
Young and other intimate associates of the de-
ceased; following these were members of the Re-
lief Society, over which Sister Smith
had presided, the general assemblage bringing up
the rear.
	At the grave Apostle Heber J. Grant offered
the dedicatory prayer, and President Angus M.
Cannon thanked the people for showing their re-
spect for the deceased by turning out in such
large numbers, The mortal remains of one of
the noblest and purest women were laid in their
last resting-place, to await the trump of the res-
urrection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We take pleasure in acknowledging the receipt
of a novel and handy little calendar, for 1888, from
Pope Mfg. Co., Boston, Mass,	The calendar


proper is in the form of a pad, containing a leaf
for each day in the year, with appropriate quota-
tions on each. A portion of each leaf is left
blank for memoranda, so arranged that the mem-
orandum can be turned to at any time. The pad
rests on a portable stand, and when placed on the 
desk or writing table, the entire surface of the date 
leaf, furnishing date and memoranda, is brought
before the eye.


﻿INTERESTING PARTY.

	On the evening of Friday, October 21st,
1887, a most delightful surprise party was ten-
dered to Mrs. Jane S. Richards, President of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion, in the
Fourth Ward School House, Ogden City. The
movers in the matter were Sister Emily Shurt-
liff, Counselor to the President of the Stake,
and Sisters Marianna Stratford, Maria Cham-
bers and Elizabeth Parkinson, Presidency of
the Fourth Ward Relief Society.
	It was successfull in every respect. Sister
Richards and her family had no inkling of it
until they reached the school house, where a 
large company of invited guests awaited them.
Sister Richards, though very much opposed to
praise or undue attention for herself, was
obliged to yield to the very sincere manner and
charming nature of the compliment paid to
her. 
	An elegant banquet was spread, and music,
songs, recitations and speeches occupied the
time, except while the guests were conversing
and feasting at the table. 
	Apostle Richards gave an entertaining and
instructive speech, full of helpful counsel to
the sisters. 
	The following address, accompanied by a 
tasteful little memento, was presented to Sister
Richards:
	“The object of our meeting togother this even-
ing is, as has been announced, a social gather-
ing of brethren and sisters, a reunion of friends,
while our main object is to show our apprecia-
tion of, and our sincere love for our worthy
and highly esteemed President, Sister Jane S.
Richards.
	Dear Sister, we shall not attempt this even-
ing to enumerate all your many virtues, nor to
elaborate upon your noble example; your life
and labors are well known to us  all, and are
recorded in heaven, where each will be re-
warded according to the deeds done in the body.
While not working for earthly honors, or the
praise of man, still it is comforting sometimes
to know that one’s labors are appreciated by
those with whom we are associated, and it is
our desire on this occasion to tell in a few
words that we do appreciate your labors as a 
helping friend and a leader in our midst.
	Women of wealth and culture all through
the civilized world are devoting their best
energies to the solution of the problem of social
improvement; but does it have for its basis the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, the development of the 
inner life of feeling and of soul from which 
springs all that is highest and holiest in man-
kind? No; religion is of no import with them.
In this the women of Zion stand as leaders
among women.
	All honor, then, to the noble women of Zion!
among whom stands prominently our worthy 
President. As an organizer you have achieved
much; as a leader your example has ever been
to inspire nobler and loftier sentiments in the
hearts of your sisters. Your counsels have
ever been fraught with that wisdom that
emanates from on high. You have sowed the
seeds of love and union, truth and justice
wherever you have labored. A higher, better
type of womanhood has been your aim; onward
and upward has been your motto. Your whole 
life has been responsive to the melody the
angels sang-—"Peace on earth and good will to


men.” And your labors have not been in
public alone; they have reached into the homes
of the Latter-day Saints; the sick have been
comforted and blessed; the poor aided and made
glad; the despondent cheered and lifted up and
the careless reclaimed, and, as our Savior once
said, “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of
the least of these, ye have done it unto me.”
	But we will not multiply words, only ask
you to accept this small gift, as a token of the
love and esteem in which you are held by the
sisters of the Fourth Ward Relief Society.
	Praying that heaven’s choicest blessings may
rest upon you during your remaining days upon
the earth, after which a happy reunion with
friends in the celestial kingdom of our God, we
subscribe ourselves.
		Yours sisters in the Gospel of peace,
	THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE 
		FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OF 
		OGDEN CITY.
	Oct. 21st, 1887.

	Mrs. Richards responded with a few words
well chosen, and expressive of loving regard
for her co-workers in the noble cause of hu-
manity.
	The ladies who managed the affair are to be
congratulated upon its success, and the good
taste with which it was conducted.  
								COM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SANDWICH ISLAND LETTER.
				LAIE, Nov. 16th, 1887.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	No doubt all your readers are fond of shells,
coral, moss and seaweed, the love of things 
pretty and beautiful being an inheritance from 
our divine father and mother.
	There are not many varieties of shells here;
one kind, common in some parts of America,
is the periwinkle, being found in plenty on our
beach, it one only knows how to look for them.
There are also a few kinds of graceful oblong 
cream and brown shells, of which I do not
know the names, found over on the “Island”
and at a beach between here and Kokuku,
about four miles from here in fact.
	One shell hunt, down near our bath house,
is framed in rosy tender colors, and hangs in
sad memory’s halls with the few happy scenes
which have brightened my life here.
	My dear friend, J. L., and her sister, M. J.
D., and myself started out one lovely golden
afternoon; accompanied by Lule, Jay, Karl,
Ina and Helen, with babies Joseph & Wesley,
our blessed little tribe of children, and down 
through the green pasture, over the rock fence
near Kekouoha’s, then over the grassy road,
hills and hollows, through the sand, and here 
we came to the boathouse and bathhouse, very
primitive structures both, but good enough for 
the purposes for which they were made. The 
children are undressed, and a calico apron
makes their bathing suit: Off they go, catch-
ing huge sand-spiders or crabs, digging in the
sand, picking up bits of sea playthings, running
after the circling, silver-lipped waves as they
ripple and patter up and down with the sandy beach,
and calling and screaming with wild childish
laughter at their romp and play. 
	Our bathing suits are soon donned, M. J.
refusing to share in the sport, preferring to
sit on the beach and watch the babies. Away
we run, decorously and slowly, till we, too, are
in the enfolding fingers of the pretty wavelets
at our feet. 
	It is not beautiful, ever new, always strange,
this glorious wonder of sea, earth and sky?
The irregular line of shore, now pushing bold-
ly out into the blue domain of the sea, anon
retreating into tiny bays; the green hills and 
pastures come fairly down to meet and greet

[Column 2]
the higher waves that splash and roar over the
verdant mead, leaving in its tangles rare treas-
ures of shell and moss, as it in compliment to
the welcome visitor.
	Behind us stretch away and up the panorama
of cottages, white and brown, in their grassy
setting of green grass, there being one lack,
the lack of the foliage of trees and vines to
beautify the little homes scattered about; owing 
to the salt trade wind, which is still too cool
and refreshing to lose, the distant sombre 
mountains making a background worthy the
picture.
	The sea, brilliant and restless, its waves al-
ways, always coming to you in playful greeting,
or in wild menace, the brown rocks and islands,
out in the depths, washed and caressed by the
same restless waters; and over all, the familiar
wonder of turquoise and pearl, the radiant arch
softened and mellowed by the glorious rays of
the day god.
	We have sighed with the fulness and power
of the beauty around us, and at last come down
to every day life and our shell hunt.
	I just wish you could see us in our red bath-
ing suits, quite unromantic generally, out in 
the breakers, or right where the waves first
break, down on our knees, scrabbling and
scratching, rolling and plunging, sand in our
hair, shells in our mouths, and attempting
wildly to keep our foothold or kneehold, in
the yielding sand.
	You get fascinated with the sport. You see,
the shells are just below the surface of the sand,
and you have to scrape and feel along the sand
with your hands and feet, and as you feel a 
sharp point, pick it up and put it into your
mouth. This sounds very easy to tell it, but
when I add that the frolicsome, mischievous
waves are rolling and shifting the sand every
instant, for you are right where it beats first on
the shore, and, that the blow of the wave,
small though it is, as it breaks (and they do
every second moment in all kinds of weather),
dashes you this way and that, sometimes roll-
ing you over in the sandy water, and filling 
nose, ears and mouth with a clever mixture of
salt, sand and water, after you hear all this,
you will know it isn't so easy as it sounds.
	You can often gather a hundred of the shells
in in afternoon; but you must remember that
so large a number but makes a tiny pile of
shells, they are so small and take up so little
room; indeed I think I could hold fifty or sixty
in my double hands. 
	After we have collected all J. wishes to get 
that day, we go out into deeper waters and take
a swim, for we can really swim, and we conse-
quently float and manoeuver about for another
hour, and then go reluctantly to change our
clothes, and go back to Laui Kuli, our walk
spiced with happy talk and chatter, the child-
ren keeping up a running accompaniment with
both legs and tongues. Oh, happy day, oh,
happy past! to take this picture down, and as I
brush the dust away to explain its beauties to
you, my heart aches with bitter, unavailing
pain, and the tears in my throat are like to
choke me! I am the brown wave dashed rock,
old with sorrow, young in joy, yet trying, oh,
so hard; Aunt Em, to look into the light and
lovliness above me, knowing that somewhere
there, the absent are making ready for me. 
						HOMESPUN.


FOR THE BENEFIT OF MOTHERS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking the following from Josephus might 
aid to inspire mothers to bring up their child-
ren as heroes for God and righteousness, I ask 
that you insert it in the EXPONENT:
	In the days of ancient Israel cruelties the 
most atrocious are recorded concerning the acts

[column 2]
of their enemies, some of which rival, if not 
excel, the cruel persecutions of the Latter-day
Saints. Among the many cruelties recorded in 
history, we notice that of King Antiochus,
whose persecution of the Maccabees has stamped
his name with eternal disgrace and imfamy.
This tyrant, seated upon a tribunal, surrounded
by his counselors and a strong body of armed
men, commanded many of the Hebrews to be
summoned into his presence on account of their
refusal to eat swine's flesh and meats offered to 
idols. Numbers suffered the death penalty
rather than to eat thus, among whom was 
Eleazer, a noted person, of the family of the
priests, by profession, who was also a lawyer, 
far advanced in years, and known to several of 
the summoned multitude. Antiochus, observ-
ing the venerable sage, thus addressed him:
"Before I proceed to use severity, let me advise
thee, reverend old man, to save thine own life
by submitting to eat of swine flesh, for I pay 
great respect to thy age and grey hairs, and am 
surprised that the experience of so many years
should not have made thee wiser than still to
persist in the Jewish superstition. It seems to
me a most unreasonable thing for men to
abridge themselves of any innocent pleasure, 
thus doing great injustice to themselves.' But
Eleazar, having time to speak for himself to the
King, replied that he would not eat the king's 
meats, for it was unclean, as God who created
our nature had due regard to it."
	"Eleazar, having made this noble and spiritual
reply to the tyrant, was then dragged by the
guards that stood round, to suffer the most 
cruel torment. The guards pulled off the old
man’s garments, the venerable garb of his re-
ligion, and, having bound his hands behind
him. scourged him most unmercifully, an officer
calling out at every stroke, "Obey the King's 
command." The brave Eleazar, however, sus-
tained this barbarity as if he had been in a 
dream, without deviating a tittle from his pro-
fession. The good old man stood with his eyes 
uplifted to heaven, while the blood streamed
down his body to the ground. No longer able 
to sustain the torments he felt, he fell upon the 
pavement. One of the guards stamped upon 
him in order to raise him; still he bore their 
barbarous insolence with surprising constancy,
suffering their stripes till his very tormentors
stood in admiration, and wondered to find so
noble a soul in a body so aged. Not being able 
to change him, they brought him to the fire.
There they applied new instruments of torture; 
threw him upon the fuel, and as he burned,
poured scalding nauseous liquid up his nostrils.
Burned to the very bone, and ready to expire,
he lifted up his eyes to heaven: "Thou seest,
my God, the miseries I endure, and that I
choose to die by fire and torment for the sake of 
Thy law. Be Thou gracious, Lord, to Thy own
people, and let the vengeance on me suffice for
what they have deserved. Make Thou my
blood purification for them, and accept my life
instead of lives." With these words this pious
man gave up the ghost.
	“Pursuant to the order of the aforsaid, there
were brought before the tyrant seven sons with
their ancient mother. The symmetry of their
forms and elegance of their deportment at-
tracted his notice, and, therefore, after behold-
ing them with a kind of approbation, he com-
manded them to approach, and thus accosted
them: The officers told the aged mother and 
seven sons to obey the king's law, but they 
would not do it. The tyrant said, "You have
nothing to expect but racks, fire and death."
The tyrant had no sooner thus spoken than he
commanded the instruments of torture to be
produced, in order to work more strongly upon
their fears; their words and menaces, he im-
agined would accomplish the design. When 
the guards had set before them the wheels,
racks and combustible materials, and other 
instruments of horror and execution, Antiochus,


taking advantage of the impression he sup-
posed this spectacle, would make, once more
appealed to them in turns to this effect, but they
were so far from being terrified that they de-
nied obedience to the king. One of the officers
said, “You are about to suffer torture, and you
cannot endure it.” One of the sons said, “Try
us, and see if it be in thy power to destroy our
souls when we suffer in the cause of God and
religion.” The officer asked them to eat of the
king’s meat, but in vain. The one answered,
“Think not, base man, that your wheels can
destroy my reason. Break my limbs in pieces,
burn my flesh; it is the peculiar glory of a
Hebrew to be firm in suffering for the cause of
virtue.” They then put fire under him, and
exposed his body to the flames, insomuch that
he exhibited, a spectacle horrible to behold,
thus continuing till nothing was left of him
but a skeleton of broken bones. He was not
heard to utter a groan. He was a descendant
of faithful Abraham, and exclaimed, “My
brethren, follow my example; desert me not in
this noble conflict, nor disclaim the relation and
generous constancy by which we are allied in
soul more nearly than in blood."
	The guards advanced with the second brother,
and fixed his hands in manacles of iron. They
talked to him before they put him to the rack;
they tore off the flesh with pinchers, and flayed
off the skin of his face and head; they skinned
him from head to foot. Not content with
mangling his body in this merciless manner,
they dragged him to the wheel, where, being
yet more distended, he saw his own flesh torn
from him, and streams of blood gushing from
his body. When at the point of death, he ex-
claimed, “Merciless tyrant!” The fifth ex-
claimed, “Do we not worship the universal
parent of nature?” They fastened his knees
with iron tongs, stretched him round the engine,
and then broke his joints, he bearing testimony
to the truth of his religion.
	The sixth youth was brought before An-
tiochus. The officers talked to him in the
same way; he resolutely answered, “My mind is
the same as my brothers,” and suffered death.
The officers then offered to make the youngest
brother governor of the state if he would re-
cant, but he also refused, and suffered death in
the same manner. The mother, refusing, suf-
fered death in like manner."
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					SARAH ROBERTS.
	Goshen, Utah Co.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM ARIZONA.

					ZENOS, Nov. 24th, 1887.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—Letters are the links that
bind us to our old homes, friends and associa-
tions; the Carrier doves bearing the messages
from heart to heart. Would it not be terrible
if we could not write to our absent ones, and
yet how many fail to improve this great privi-
lege. I have a few spare moments so will send
a few lines of remembrance to my friends afar,
who have not forgotton me:
	We have moved our "camp" again (it seems
to me that all Israel is on the "tented field"
just now), this only makes nine times that I
have changed my abiding place since I came
here. We take some comfort in the thought
that we cannot be numbered among those who
are “at ease in Zion,” and hope we may escape
the judgments pronounced in the Bible upon
that people.
	We are located at present near a very large
ruin, one of those monuments of a departed
race, that are to be found everywhere in this
land. Several skeletons. have been dug up on
it near the top, and but little work has been
done on it as yet. This place is improving
slowly, but I think steadily; it takes hard work,


time, patience and perseverance, with the bless-
ing of God, to redeem the waste places of Zion
and make the desert blossom as the rose.” 
	I have taken much pleasure in the Associa-
tions of the Young Ladies and Primaries; feel
quite proud of the children; as a rule they are
ready and willing to respond to every call
made upon them, and always accomplish what
they undertake. They had a very pleasant en-
tertainment on the 2nd of this month, the pro-
ceeds to be used towards building a house to
meet in; for notwithstanding the mighty en-
deavors of our enemies to the contrary, the cry
of Zion still goes on:
		"Give us room, that we may dwell."
	Short speeches and short letters are generally
most appreciated, so I will close this for the
present, with love and best wishes to all.
                                     Sincerely,
                                                                S. E. R.


AUNT JERUSHA ON COOK BOOKS.

	Wall, I declar, if it aint the funniest sight
I've saw for a long time to see them smart
young misses now-a-days, with their hair all
fizzle fuz, and great aprons that cover the whole
body, going inter the kitchen with a big book,
and some scales and a goodness knows what, to
mus up all the kitchen tables and pans and
spoons for some one else ter wash, and showin'
off their interlectual cooking. When I wuz in
town visitin a spell, Maria Ann, John's cousin,
tho’ thar they don't call her such, but only
Mareah, though it’s her own christin name, and
I can't see but what's good enuf when we're
young, ought ter be good enuf when we're on
the other side of fifty to go by. Wall, as I
wus sayin, when I was thar visitin her girls 
said, "Mama, whare's the cook book? I guess
I'll make Aunt Jerusha some cookies to take
home with her fur lunch.” For the land sakes,
says I, ef you’r goin ter the kitchen, Sarah
(for thet wuz the oldest girl's name, though
they call her Sadie in town), do leave your
larnin in the library, for, to tell the truth, I'm
thet narvous with your everlastin readin since
I cum, thet I don't know what to do. "But,
Aunt, this cook book, you see, tells us how to
make things, and we do as it says, and our
cakes and pies are always just right." You
don't say so; wall, I declar, if things aint come
to a purty pass, when you have to have books
for your hired girls, and can't put a pie or
nuthin in the oven without first lookin in a
book to see ef it's right; and who wrote it? I
bet ten cents it wuz a man, thet don't know no
more about cookin than a rooster. Go ter your
mother, girls, and what you don't know about
cookin she can tell yer, for she war a mighty
fine cook afore she cum here ter live, and
used ter put a dinner on the table fit fur a king,
and her mother told her how ter do it without
no books nor larnin of that sort. "But here,
Aunt, we have so many ideas, and new ones,
too; always looking after new ones" Wall, old
things are good enuff fur me so long as they
don't get musty, and I guess they can't say
much more about good bread and dumplins
and apple sars and vegetables and Thanksgivin
turkey and sech, then me and your mother
knew long afore yer wuz born, ken they now?
but let's see the thing, and find out what it does
do.
	I put on my specs and opened the book, al-
most a hatin to tech it; I believe I'd as soon, or
sooner, read a novel as that book that comes
inter houses and tells girls ther mothers don't
know nuthin, and ef they must be wives why
they must have a cookin book. Wall, I opened
it, and the first thing I spied wuz four long
pages about taters, I jest thought I’d bust as I
read about Saratoga taters, as ef every one
didn't know Utah taters wuz the best to be had;
and then it said cut em thin, put em in wate

[Column 2]
over night, changin the water three or four
times (who on arth, after a honest day's work,
wants ter be gettin up three or four times in
the night to change the water on a half dozen
taters), fry in hot greese, and take out with a
spoon; who'd think of stickin their fingers inter
hot greese to pick out a little chain of tater.
Wall, I says, girls, you jest pare your taters
thin, put em in a kittle of boilin water, with
some salt, and cook em till a fork will run in
easy, then pour off the water, and when they're
good and dry mash em right good, and pour in
a little cream and stir it around, or, if you
can't get cream take some milk, and butter and
pepper and salt, and fix em nice in a dish, and
put two or three nice pieces of butter on top,
and ef them taters aint as good as any in a
cookin book then my name aint Aunt
Jerusha.
	Wall I’d liked to kep that book longer, fur
it wuz astonishin what lots of things it did say,
but the girls laughed at me and tuk it off ter
the kitchen to cook sunthin fur me. It's jest
astonishin how good them girls wuz when I
said I wuz goin home; I declar ter goodness
there wuzn't a single thing they didn't do ter
help me off, and 1 wuz waited on so much that
I wuz almost off afore I knew it, and home a
hull week afore I wuz looked fur. 	
	I've sent to town fur a book, jest ter see
what fool things it does say, and maybe you'll
hear how ter make some more good things
someday, fur them cookies they made there
wusn't much to em, though they wusn't bad
after all.


R. K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORGE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And and elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 16.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1888.		No. 15.


﻿APOSTROPHE.

To the liberated Spirit of Zion's late Prophetess and
				    Poetess.
			ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
	Suggested by the Singing of "Oh! My Father."

		Free from this most “frail existence"—
			Free to lay “this mortal by"— 
		Free to span the starry distance
			To the "royal courts on high."
		Ransomed spirit! deathless essence!
			Hie thee hence to realms so fair;
		Gain thy "Father's radiant presence;"
			Greet thy noble "Mother there."

		Now renew "the recollection
			Of illustrious friends and birth;"
		Glory in thy Lord's affection;
			Triumph in thy Chieftain's worth.
		Drink the fill of joys supernal,
			By continual virtues won;
		Wear thy crown of life eternal,
			While unceasing cycles run. 

		Holiness, akin to beauty,
			Stamped thee with a marvelous seal;
		Powerful was thy sense of duty,
			Irrepressible thy zeal;
		Counselor so true, so able;
			Ready to relieve distress;
		The afflicted and the tempted
			'Twas thy ministry to bless.

		From thy lips fell words of wisdom,
			Pure as pearls, or grains of gold;
		Far and wide the same have rooted,
			Yielding many a thousand fold.
		Far and wide thy inspirations
			Are "a joy" in these last days;
		Zion's numerous generations
			Lovingly repeat thy praise.

		"Take thy needed recreation;
			"Slumb'ring minstrel," softly rest;
		Thou shalt raise to emulation
			Many a muse by care oppressed.
		Lo, thy steadfast, pure example
			Shall a bright incentive prove;
		Leave thy power-inspiring "mantle"
			To the Zion of thy love.
				    		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
    		Salt Lake City, Dec. 8th, 1887.


﻿NEW YEAR’S MORNING.

Only a night from old to new!
	Only a night, and so much wrought!
The Old Year’s heart all weary grew,
	But said: “The New Year rest has brought."
The Old Year’s heart its hopes laid down,
	As in a grave; but, trusting, said:
“The blossoms of the New Year’s crown
	Bloom from the ashes of the dead.”
The Old Year’s heart was full of greed;
	With selfishness it longed and ached.
And cried, “1 have not half I need.
	My thirst is bitter and unslaked.
But the New Year's generous hand
	All gifts in plenty shall return:
True loving it shall understand;
	By all my failures it shall learn.
I have been reckless; it shall be
	Quiet and calm and pure of life. 
I was a slave; it shall go free,
	And find sweet peace where I leave strife.”

Only a night from old to new!
	Night and the healing balm of steep!


﻿Each morn is New Year's morn come true,
			Morn of a festival to keep.
		All nights are sacred nights to make 		
			Confession and resolve and prayer;
		All days are sacred days to wake
			New gladness in the sunny air.
		Only a night from old to new: 
			Only a sleep from night to morn,
		The new is but the old come true;
			Each sunrise sees a new year born,
											H. H.

As the dead year is clasped by a dead December,
	So let your dead sins with the dead days lie.
A new life is yours; and a new hope:  Remember
	We build our own ladders to climb to the sky.

Hvae you missed in your aim?  Well, the mark is still 
	shining;
Did you faint in the race?  Well, take breath for the
		next;
Did the clouds drive you back? See yonder their
		lining;
Were you tempted and fell?  Let it serve for a text.

It is never too late to begin rebuilding, 
	Though all into ruins your life seems hurled;
For look!  The light of the New Year is gilding
	The worn wan face of the bruised old world!
						ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


A CHRISTMAS STORY.

	About the year one of the Christian era, as
the Gentile nations compute time, a virgin
lived; she traced her descent from ancient Israel,
who have continued to count time from the be-
ginning of creation. The name of this chosen
vessel of the Lord was Mary, and before she
was born the prophets spoke of her as being
the mother of the Savior; and they also prophe-
cied of one that should come to prepare the
way before Him. Mary had a cousin, her
name was Elizabeth, and they were both of the
same lineage. These two women were pure
and holy in conduct and conversation. Mary
was the youngest, and had not been married
when my story commences, but was engaged
to a good and devout man by the name of
Joseph; he also was of Israel, and descended
from the tribe of Juda, one of the twelve sons
of Jacob, by his wife Leah. We read in
Matthew, 1st chapter, of Joseph, the intended
husband of Mary, that his descent came down
through Solomon. And we read in Luke, 1st
chapter, "That a certain priest named Zacharias
of the course of Abia and his wife, was of the
daughters of Aaron, and her name was Eliza-
beth." Now Abia was the grandson of Solo-
mon. By tracing this descent it makes John the
Baptist and the Savior, or their natural fathers,
Zacharias and Joseph, related, as well as
Elizabeth and Mary; Elizabeth was of the
daughters of Aaron; who were of the tribe of
Levi, and Levi and Juda were own brothers;
these four persons would be related by blood.
Elizabeth and Mary were women highly fa-
vored of the Lord. The angel Gabriel was 
sent direct from the presence of the Father to
inform them of the birth of their children, and
named them before they were born; their pre-
existent state was fully defined, and their
missions here were fore-ordained, and their lives
sacrificed to save a fallen world.
	Before John the Baptist was born, there
were great promises made to his father con-
cerning him. He was told by the angel that
talked with him in the temple of the Lord,

[column 2]
“That he should have joy and gladness and
many would rejoice at his birth.” That he
should be great in the sight of the Lord, and
should not drink wine nor strong drink, and
should be filled with the Holy Ghost from his
birth, and many of the children of Israel he
 would turn to the Lord. The Savior said of
him, “That he was the greatest prophet that was
ever born of woman.” His office was to bap-
tize the Son of God, and also to baptize all
those who repented of their sins and brought
forth fruits worthy of repentance. Elizabeth
was filled with the Holy Ghost before her son
was born; Mary, her cousin, paid her a visit
and staid with her three months, and they re-
joined together in the things of God, that had
been made known to them through revelation
from on high.
	Joseph and his wife, Mary, went to the city
of David to be taxed, and while there the
Savior was born, and as there was no room for
them in the inn they slept in a stable, and the
Savior of the world was dressed in swaddling 
clothes and laid in a manger. And in that
country shepherds were there watching their 
flocks by night, and the angel of the Lord
came to them, and said for them not to fear,
they had brought them good tidings of great
joy, that should be to all people. "And there
was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
host, praising God and saying, 'Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace, good-will
toward men. For unto you is born, in the
city of David, a Savior, which is Christ, the
Lord.' "
	Christ, the Son of Mary, was born in Bethle-
hem, in the land of Judea; wise men came from
the east to worship the babe of Bethlehem, for
they had seen a particular star, that indicated
He was born, and they inquired at Jerusalem
where he was; and when King Herod heard
the wise men tell about the star, he inquired
when it appeared, and sent them to Bethlehem
to find Jesus, that he might kill him, for he
really believed that Jesus would be King of
the Jews, and thought that he would be de-
throned, and he pretended to those wise men
that if they found Jesus he would worship Him
also. And they went at the King's command,
and, lo, the star that they had seen in the east 
went before them, till it came and stood over
where the young child was. When they saw
the star they rejoiced exceedingly.
	The writer of this dreamed she saw the star
in the heavens; the sky was dense, but over-
head, deep, beyond in a circular space, formed
a beautiful star, circle formed the center of it
and the painters touched the outer extremity,
and its colors were like the rainbow. I was en-
tranced; my gaze was steadfast; I watched it
until it gradually faded away, and a personage
slowly came to view, dressed in priestly robes
of pure white, feet and ankles bare; his head
was toward the West and feet to the East, as
he took the place of the star in the circle.
These were the only objects I saw in the hea-
vens. I thought this was the star that would
appear before the Savior's coming, and that
was His appearing in like manner. It reminded
me of that passage of Scripture, "That every
eye shall behold Him." I know I felt like
those wise men from the east. For days after
I had seen this, I rejoiced in the heavenly in-
fluence that shed itself through my whole be-
ing, which I cannot easily forget or describe.
	And when these wise men found the young
child and His mother they fell down and wor-


shipped Him; and they opened their treasures
and presented unto Him gifts; gold and frankin-
cense and myrrh.  The first gifts were pre-
sented to our Lord and Savior in His childhood,
and when His natal day rolls round, let us 
present to him a pure heart, like the gold, with
no alloy, purified from all dross; and when we
offer gifts to one another on Christmas day, let
us remember, that as each Christmas succeeds
another, we are approaching nearer the time
when He will appear, to give good gifts unto
those who ask Him in faith and keep His com-
mandments.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec 14, 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	OUR LESSONS.

	Well, since this life is a school, preparatory
to the next stage of action, we would ask,
“What is our lesson for to-day?”  Well, I
hardly think the old lesson of being as “wise as
serpents and harmless as doves” has been
studied and reduced to practice sufficiently to
take a new one.
	We find when we are associated with those
who measure themselves by the same pattern
and live by the same rule as our Savior, we
think we are progressing finely. But suddenly
some tinsel show attracts our attention, and,
being fond of the beautiful, our attention is
held, until we are charmed by its harmless and
beautiful appearance. We ask ourselves, may
we not grasp the golden prize?
	We soon find, by making a desperate effort
on our part, and perhaps making a sacrifice of
something else, that the prize is ours. We feel
happy for a moment that our efforts were
blessed in obtaining it. Suddenly a disap-
pointed feeling comes over us; this prize does
not afford true and lasting comfort; it is fleeting
and transitory, like all other worldly treasures,
unless put to usury.
	We turn our eyes within, and ask, “How do
I stand in the sight of my Heavely Father?
It seems that my feet are sinking to the under-
current. Was this indeed the wisest course
to pursue? Will the result be all that I de-
sired?”
	This may be a profitable lesson for the future,
but in reality of no real worth when compared
with the riches of eternity.
	Jesus, the Savior of the world, taught His
disciples what those riches were. In applying
your mind to those riches, you will soon find
how much nobility of character you possess.
Narrow, contracted minds cannot grasp the
glorious truths or comprehend them, because
the mind must be prepared by the existence of
the divine nature. Yes, the gift of the Holy
Ghost to truly conceive their real value, and
enable you to act in sincerity of heart. The
Lord requires those who worship Him to do it
in sincerity and truth.
	Jesus once said, “Those who love anything
more than me, are not worthy of me.” This
passage was repeated not long since in the pre-
sence of a lady, who remarked, “Well, I know
the Lord does not expect me to love Him more
than my baby boy, whose sweet prattle and
bright eyes take my whole attention. He
could not expect me to love one I do not see,
as I do my boy. Surely that love is pure and
heavenly, because the object of my love is
pure.” But how is your parental love? Your
parents loved and cherished you as fondly as
you do the boy. How many years have they
been your guardians, shield and protectors,
teaching you virtuous, honorable and upright
principles, to save you from vice and ruin, and
keep your feet in the paths of joy and peace?
Their experience and intelligence, which they
gain from time to time, is always kept in re-
serve for your benefit; you can go to them for
counsel, which will benefit you, because of their

[Column 2]
age and experience; they are qualified to teach
you in many things.
	Could you be so ungrateful and so short-
sighted as to neglect to give your best affections
to god-like and honorable parents, whose whole
soul is interested in their offspring, to comfort
and bless and lead their minds on to true in-
telligence? We are naturally lovers of intelli-
gence, especially when combined with wis-
dom to govern and control the affairs of
families or associations.
	How much gratitude do we owe, then, to our
Heavenly Father, the head of all science, the
ruler of the universe, who gives unto all their
agency; to seek knowledge from Him, or
otherwise, as we choose. I think the love we
have for a superior, who is properly apprecia-
ted, is greater than that of an inferior, although
it may be a dear child. I would not say it
was not most pure; however, for children are
pure, and, oh, how important that they always
remain the same.
	I greatly admired an illustration of Prest.
Heber C. Kimball’s. He spoke of a friend of
his who was going up the river to visit a rela-
tive; he took a skiff and plied the oars manfully,
until he came in sight of his relative’s residence,
when he began to feel quite exhausted, and
said, “I must rest; I can see the house, and will
soon be there.” Accordingly, he laid down his
oars, laid himself down also, and dropped off
to sleep; when he awoke he found himself far
below the starting point.
	“This,” said he, “is our position to-day. We
are going up stream against the current of
popular opinion. Yes, as much so to day as
when this Gospel was preached by Jesus, our
Savior.” He remarked, “This is our situation
to-day. We gain strength by exercise; not by
over-doing or over-reaching, but by caution,
and carefully applying the oars and developing
the little strength we have to-day, we can, if
we observe the word of wisdom, gain renewed
strength from the fountain.” These are lessons
which we, as a people, have proved to be bene-
ficial, especially when we realize that this is
the dispensation of the fulness of times, when
all things which have transpired in ages past
will again appear.
	Believing this, we hope to see the human
family return to their sober senses in the near
future. I believe a portion of them will have
the humility to see themselves as they truly
are, dependent upon an alwise Father for every
faculty, both mental and physical, which they
possess. There are a few of this class living
among the masses to-day; there are others who
realize they have good abilities and can arrive
at great attainments through these faculties,
yet their vanity causes them to think they
know enough to judge the world.
	Well, St. Paul once said that we are as sub-
ject to vanity as the sparks which fly upward.
This vanity, you will see, is a great detriment,
because it hinders us from making the improve-
ment we would otherwise make, when we are
more childish and humble.
	We are looking forward to a time when the
human family will see themselves as they
truly are in the sight of their maker. Did
they see themselves to-day they would not re-
ject the message sent them to prepare for the
second coming of our Savior.
	I would compare them to little children with
their Christmas toys. They enjoy them so
well, they will not heed the call of their
parents to put them by and attend to some-
thing of more importance. No, this they call
cruel and a great sacrifice of their feelings.
While some are reckless and wayward, others
are obedient, having more filial love and venera-
tion for their parents.
	Now, I would ask, which will make the
greatest progress and become the most useful
man? Who will comprehend the designs and
purposes of an alwise Parent so readily as a

[Column 3]
faithful and dutiful child? May we prove to
be one of this number.
	M.  E. KIMBALL
	Nov. 28th, 1887.


LETTER FROM OHIO.

DEAR MRS. WELLS AND OTHER MORMON
SISTERS:
	I was told the other day by an acquaintance,
that my “Mormon friend, Eliza Snow is dead,”
and he said that notices of her death were in
all the Cincinnatti papers. I did not see the
notices but I felt very much saddened to hear
of it. One’s life is made up of regrets, at
least my life is. I shall always regret that I
never had a fuller acquaintance with “Sister
Eliza,” as you all so lovingly called her.
	She was a noble, a wonderful woman, it
seemed to me, and I shall now always think
of her as being in heaven with the many who
were “first at the sepulcher,” and as always
busy and happy. I have been reading Miss
Phelp’s books lately and heaven seems to me
more like a real place, and that we shall know
each other there.
	One by one the older ones of your Church
are going to the other home. I wonder what
the future of the peculiar people will be. I
have long intended to write something for the
EXPONENT, but my time is so entirely used up
with home duties; and the public disregarding
the fact that children growing up into woman-
hood and young manhood increase the calls
upon a mother s time, makes many demands
upon me, which as a mother, a woman, I can-
not refuse to respond to. There is work in
church and moral movements for women now,
God grant we may all do our work faithfully.
How much I should like to have known Miss.
Snow personally, and how I should like to know
you all. May peace and love be with you here,
and everlasting joy in the home beyond is the
wish and prayer of your sister,
						EMILY SCOTT.
Dec. 18, 1887.


CHESTER ITEMS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Because the Chester Annual Primary Fair
held here a few days ago was such a joyous oc-
casion I write a few details.
	Stake President, Sister Helena Madsen, and
a Miss Wickham, favored the Fair by their
presence and most excellent remarks.
	The juveniles did wonders in making
things, the result of the inevitable jack-
knife from the little chair,through agricultural
implements, wagons, etc.
	Nor were the little ladies behind in the
dainty needle work, in all sorts, and sweet
culinary productions, and it was a real pleasure
to take their dainties so pleasingly offered you.
And Emma the president fairly bubbled over
in ecstacies as her little ones vied with each
other in song and recitation. Allusion was
made to Prest. Petersen’s suggestion of a
lOcts. subscription  by each member of the
Stake Primary the full name of each subscriber
to be recorded in the Temple Record.
	In response to this the little ones sent up
$9 45 in cash; also 25 yards of most excellent
rag carpet and a beautiful floral and animal
rug the labors of the deft fingers of the “little
toilers.” When you consider our limited set-
tlement the few who take hold of these things
“it was more than ye all” besides it is a most
gratifying evidence of the new regime of this
place.
	H.
Dec. 17, 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RARITY.

In dreams I found a wondrous land
Radiant with roses on each hand.

No grasses, trees, nor shrubs were there.
But roses blossoming everywhere.

Great velvet-petaled blooms were these,
Red millions trembled in each breeze.

They swept towards the horizon's verge
In many a splendid ample surge;

They spread on all sides, one intense
Monotony of magnificence.

Then suddenly, where my pathway ran,
Loomed the vague presence of a man.

And in his clasp, with strange delight,
I saw one daisy, glimmering white.

Such daises bloom in slender sprays
By throngs among June’s meadowed ways.

Yet all my soul at this weird hour,
Leaned out to that one simple flower.

For chastity, delicately fair,
And better still, supremely rare,

It won a pastoral charm so sweet,
This lovely lissom Marguerite.

That seeing it was like dear repose
To me, whose whole heart loathed a rose.—
	SELECTED.


HOW WINNRTH LIBEETY AND THE
	LEADER.

Hail to the leaders of men, the sovereigns by grace of God,
Who flinch not and fear not to venture where none before
	them have trod!
As lightning unsheathed from the clouds to chasten the
	pestilent air,
As fire running swift through the sere-wood, their spirit
	shall heaven prepare.
Lo, the armed leader alone! But soon not single he
	stands;
Not quicker sown teeth of the dragon sprang up in militant
	bands
About the great founder of Thebes than rallying legions
	arise,
And circle a leader of men, and lift his loved name to the
	skies.
Then, whereso he biddeth them strike, there draw they
	the glittering blade,
And whereso he biddeth them pause, the tide of the battle
	is stayed;
The field being won, he teaches how victors should temper
	their pride;
The field being lost, how Truth and the Right beyond
	ravage abide.
Few are the leaders of men, yet many the liegemen they
	draw; 
Fire of the courage in one, chill fear in a thousand shall
	thaw!
Still, as of old, Miltiades' trophies drive away sleep,
Still at the parle of the trumpet, hearts responsive shall
	leap:
Wherefore we follow our leaders, and well! yet cannot dis
	cern
How they whom we follow exultant are also led in their
	turn.
But surely, unseen is their chieftain, no plume streaming
	white in their van,—
Ah, surely, unseen is their chieftain, and ever a greater
	than man!
We move as their watchword commands, but a watchword
	more potent they hear;
The clang of the battle for us, for them music aerial-clear!
So  he who drank poison at Athens still heard the sweet
	voice of the law,
As the wild Corybantes the flutes of their deity listened in
	awe.)
They follow a deathless Idea;—leader of leaders for
	aye.—
That liveth, and wageth its strife, though we remain but a
	day;
That chooseth the man most fit, and setteth him foremost
	in fray.


Hail to the leaders of men, who know and their leaders
	obey!
Yet we too, the liegemen,—we too, though our sight ex
	ceed not a span.—
Follow a deathless Idea clothed in a puissant man.
	From the poem by
	EDITH M. THOMAS.


THE OLD YEAR’S BLESSINGS.

I am fading from you,
	But one drawest near,
Called the angel guardian
	Of the coming year.

If my gifts and graces
	Coldly you forget,
Let the New Year's angel
	Bless and crown them yet.

For we work together,
	He and I are one.
Let him end and perfect
	All I leave undone.

I brought good desires,
	Though as yet but seeds;
Let the New Year make them
	Blossom into deeds.

I brought joy to brighten
	Many happy days;
Let the New Year's angel
	Turn them into praise.

If I give you sickness,
	If I brought you care,
Let him make one patience
	And the other prayer.

Where I brought you sorrow,
	Through his care at length
It may rise triumphant
	Into future strength.
	
If I brought you plenty,
	All wealth's bounteous charms
shall not the new angel
	Turn them into alms?

I gave health and leisure,
	Skill to dream and plan;
Let him make them nobler
	Work for God and man.
	
If I broke your idols,
	Showed you they were dust,
Let him turn the knowledge
	Into heavenly trust.

If I brought temptation,
	Let sin die away
into boundless pity
	For all hearts that stray.

If your list of erros
	Dark and long appears,
Let this new-horn monarch
	Melt them into tears.

May you hold this angel
	Dearere than the last--
So I bless his future
	While he crowns my past.
	ADELAIDE A. PROCTOR.


[Column 1]
AN INTERESTING DREAM.

The following panorama passed in prophetic 
view before my slumbering eyes last night:
My attention was attracted by a funeral
cortege in the street, moving quietly westward.
First, there comes the hearse, bearing the hon-
ored dead, followed by many carriages and
horsemen, and last of all an imposing file of
men on foot, dressed in common everyday attire.
Onward the slow advancing mass of souls pro-
ceeded, and at every corner where a street in-
tersected, other retinues came up and fell in
with the procession, until with its miles of
length it seemed interminable.  In the begin-
ning there was no sign of flags or arms, and no
music, but as the vast concourse swept
solemnly on, it was suddenly discovered that
each man had shouldered a glittering bayonet;
and all at once the American flag, deeply
draped and hanging at half mast, waved
gloomily at short intervals over the moving
spectacle.  Everyone stepped regularly, and
with a tread almost tender, to the soft beat of
muffled drums.  Many were weeping and all
were sad.
	Then, suddenly, out from the impressive
silence, from the thousands of oppressed hearts,
rose in harmonious chords a song, and I heard
distinctly these words, sung in the beautiful
tune of “Sweet By and Bye:”

“In the sweet by and bye,
We will bow under tyranny no more;
In the sweet by and bye,
We will bow under tyranny no more.”

The chorus was sung over and over again,
and though sweet and soft, it rose to such an
enthusiasm that the very heavens seemed to
catch up the melodious refrain and sang in con-
cert.  The time was afternoon, serene and
bright.  All at once, a greyish light, as of
twilight, began to settle over the people, and
the sky so clear and fair a moment ago, began
to darken, and finally changed to ebon black-
ness.  Still I could see the immense train of
people, going forward with bowed heads, wav-
ing their banners aloft, singing in mutual sym-
pathy that same solemn, mysterious chorus.
	Then in the zenith appeared a circular open-
ing, the size of a large wheel, apparently, and
a division--twelve divisions, equal and regular,
--took place in the darkly shrouded sky, be-
ginning at the circle, and running downwards
along the sky to the verge of the horizon.
Each one of the separate divisions now began
majestically to move its sable folds, then formed,
in color and shape, into a flag, which appeared
heavily creped, and hung at half mast, drooped
to the earth and touched it.  The top of the
staffs, on which were fastened the twelve flags,
met the circle at regular sections.  Just on the
interior of the circle glowed these words, “The
twelve tyrannies.  Tyrants, beware!”  The
words were formed of letters written with
golden fire, that seemed to burn and crackle
and cintillate with their very intensity of 
meaning, and glittering serpents ran rapidly
up and down along the tracery of the letters,
hissing as they went.
	The blackness of the crepe was deeper upon
some of the flags than others; on the American
flag it was the blackest.  On another it was only
a dark dull grey color.  All the flags but that 
of my own country were strange to me, but
they represented distant nations.  The govern
ors and nobles of the earth, as spectators,
looked on the strange scene aghast.
	While up in the wide dark vault the flags
in their terrible beauty waved ominously to
and fro, and the gleaming letters above them
trembled and quivered under the mad rage of
the darting serpents, and the voices below con-
tinued in grand imposing chorus, the grey twi-
light air hanging directly over the people 
changed to a blood red light; earth and heaven
seemed to murmur, and a voice in the air said,
“Liberty is dead!”
A RESIDENT OF SALT LAKE CITY.
Thursday, Nov. 10, 1887.


Silence is the sanctuary of prudence.
	Though a lover be never so great an orator,
yet a kiss on the lips of his beloved is often
more eloquent than all his fine speech.—J.
Bodenham.
	Faith, though weak, is still faith, a glimmer-
ing taper if not a torch; but the taper may give
light as true as the torch, though not so bright-
ly.—H. Muller.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1887


[Column 1]

A HAPPY NEW YEAR!

	The new year always brings with it a feeling of
joy, as the departure of the old one leaves sadness,
we throw it off in the dawning of the new, as we
cast off an old garment we have worn and don the
new, scarcely knowing whether it will serve us as
well as the old one, and yet it is with some little
satisfaction we take on the new.
	The new year is a time of fresh resolves to al-
most all the world of mankind; in whatever work
one is engaged, the wish is generally felt if it is
not expressed, may this year now just entered
upon be a more prosperous and a more propitious
one than the last. In this feeling the literary
worker, and especially the journalist, shares very
largely. We find it noticeable in almost all our
exchanges, and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT feels
most strongly the necessity of greater success in
the undertaking of the work on hand. The de
pression among the Latter-day Saints, in conse-
quence of the crusade against this people, the
many bonds, imprisonments and exiles, and the
circumstances of the people generally, has had its
effect upon the paper, and most severely, too. The
women of Zion should feel a sufficient degree of
interest in their representation to support a paper,
and it certainly gives them both influence and
prestige, as well as helping to develop the talent
of women for writing, and in this connection we
can safely affirm that it has been instrumental in
bringing out and aiding, not only young women,
but young men as well.
	We look back with a slight degree of pride
(laudable we think), to the first published writings,
both prose and poetry, of some who have since
made a mark and attained to some distinction in
home literature.
	The EXPONENT contains sketches of the lives
and peculiar experiences of some of the most
noted women who ever lived, and a complete re-
cord of organizations of the Relief Society, Young
Ladies' Associations and Primary Associations in
all the several Stakes of Zion. It also has, from
time to time, published many original essays upon
various subjects, besides poetry or verse, that
has found its way into other newspapers and jour-
nals and young ladies' scrap books, not only in
Utah, but elsewhere.
	The EXPONENT is also a missionary abroad as
well as at home, and goes where it would be very
difficult for a "Mormon" Elder or a "Mormon"
woman even to gain admittance. And it sows the
seeds of truth, much as it may be despised, by
some and insignificent as it appears to many.
	During the past year alone hundreds of tourists
have called at this office to inquire concerning the
"peculiar people," and especially the "Mor-
mon" women. Looking over the register
book for the year 1887, there are recorded the
names of some very distinguished people, and the
list includes men and women from various parts
of the globe. At times there have been very
strong testimonies borne to strangers in this 
office, sometimes by Elders, but much more fre-

[Column 2]

quently by the sisters, and thus, also, much good
seed is sown; it may be as the Savior said of the
sower who went forth to sow:
	"And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the
wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them
up.
	"Some fell upon stony places, where they had
not much earth; and forthwith they sprung up, be-
cause they had no deepness of earth;
	"And when the sun was up, they were scorched;
and because they had no root, they withered
away.
	"And some fell among thorns; and the thorns
sprung up and choked them.
	But others fell into good ground, and brought
forth good fruit, some a hundred fold, some sixty
fold, some thirty fold."
	A little of this kind of sowing has been done by
the women of Zion through the EXPONENT, and
even this little is both precious and desirable.
	No more hearty or sincere congratulations can
be given by any, than we wish to express for our
readers and the women of Zion, and the women
of all the world, hoping for a brighter day and
fairer prospects, and that ere long the strong bands
of oppression that hold the Latter-day Saints in
bondage may be broken, and Zion arise and shine
resplendent in glory, the admiration of all the
world.


[Column 1]

NOTES BY THE WAY.

	Leaving Salt Lake City by the early south
bound train, on the 8th of December, fully antici-
pating Sister Z. D. H. Young's companionship in
the tour through Sanpete County, the disapoint-
ment of not having her society had a depressing
influence throughout the day, as one does not like
the responsibility of going out alone among the
sisters, when it is expected there will be two or
three together as it was in this instance; how-
ever, when the train reached Fountain Green
station, a carriage was in waiting, and Sister
Johnson welcomed the one lone visitor very cor-
dially, and we soon reached her hospitable home,
and, after a most excellent dinner, attended the
meeting of the Relief Society at the new brick
meeting house, Mrs. Polly Ann Johnson presid-
ing. We made it a point of having a verbal re-
port from the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. and
P. A. there, and at each place we visited when it
was not arranged to hold meetings with these or-
ganizations. After a pleasant evening at Sister
Johnson's, spent in conversation with several of
the sisters, who gathered there to talk upon the
principles of the Gospel and systems of work in
the Society, etc. we sat up late to write and send
home editorial matter for the paper, as every edi-
tor must do after occupying all the day with
other duties.
	The next morning drove over to Moroni with
Brother and Sister Clark; went direct to Bishop
Irons, where everybody goes to be entertained.
Meeting at half past one p. m., with the Relief So-
ciety, dear old Sister Jane Bailey presiding; and
at half past three the Primary Association assem-
bled, Sister Deborah Irons presiding. The chil-
dren rendered the programme prepared for the
occasion in a most creditable manner, and it must
be a great satisfaction to those who are interested
in the progress and spiritual development of the
little people of Zion, that these associations are
doing such good home missionary work wherever
they have been organized. Certainly those who
preside over the children, and who meet with them
every week,year after year,in all kinds of weather,
ought to have the faith and prayers of all Israel
in this noble undertaking.
	The following morning, Dec. 10th, went with
Bishop Irons and wife and Sister Gee to Mt.
Pleasant, where the Conference of the Relief So-

[Column 2]

ciety and Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake convened on
that day. The Bishop drove direct to the meet-
ing house, where we found conference in session,
Sister Mary A. Hyde presiding. Pres. Canute
Peterson and wife were present on the stand and
also sisters from several parts of the Stake; Sister
E. Allred, Counselor to Sister Hyde, Sister M.
A. Pritchett, Pres. R. S. Fairview, also Sister
Rebecca Tucker, Levee Terry and Sister Cheeney
from that place. The meeting house had been
handsomely draped in memory of the recent
death of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Sister M.
F. C. Morrison and Sister Madson, the local
Presidents, were both present. Most of the 
branches of the R. S. in the Stake were repre-
sented verbally at the Conference. At the close
of the morning session a large number of the
brethren and sisters took dinner at Brother
Peels, where ample arrangements had been made
and a regular Christmas prepared for the visitors
from different parts of the stake.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference was held in the
afternoon, Sister Helen Armstrong presiding. Be-
sides reports from the Associations and brief
addresses from several of those present, Miss
Olive Lowrey related her wonderful experiences 
during a long and tedious illness, and her manifes-
tations of the power of God in her being re-
stored to health. Her recital produced a thrill-
ing effect upon the congregation, and, indeed,
throughout the Conference a most excellent spirit
was manifest in all the addresses and teachings
given, and it seemed a time of refreshing from on
high.
	That night we stayed with our dear friends the
Morrisons, and on Sunday morning went with
Sister Leonard Jordan and son to Spring City.
We arrived in time for dinner, at the residence of
Sister Hyde, at the home of the late Apostle
Orson Hyde. Many recollections of his life and
labors are recalled in visiting his house in Spring
City, where he lived so many years and labored
among the people in that Stake of Zion, and where
at least, he laid himself down to sleep after a long
life of usefulness, or, as we believe, passed to the
Spirit world to proclaim the glad tidings of great
joy to the Spirits in prison there, and to join his
fellow laborers and co-workers who had gone be-
fore him to the other side.
	In the afternoon attended service in the ward
meeting house, Bishop Allred presiding. A re-
turned missionary occupied most of the time,
whose field of labor had been in the Southern
States, and who seemed to be inspired with the
spirit of his mission, and bore an excellent testi-
mony to the truuth of the Gospel. The sisters meet-
ing was held at the same place in the evening, Sis-
ter Mary Frantzen presiding. There was a
crowded house; many young people of both sexes
were present, and paid great attention to the
speakers. Monday morning, with Sister Hyde
and Master Royal Hyde, we drove over to
Ephraim, where, as in every other settlement. we
visited, we were very cordially greeted, and most
hospitably entertained. As a matter of course
we stayed at Pres. Peterson's, and thoroughly 
enjoyed the visit, not only with the President and
his good wife, but with the sisters who came to
visit us,during the time we were there, and whose
kindness will ever be remembered. There were
two meetings at Ephraim one of the R. S., in the
afternoon of Monday, Sister M. A. Hyde presid-
ing with Sister Sarah Peterson, her Frst Counsel-
or, and one of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the evening;
both were well attended, and seemingly much en-
joyed by all present.
	Tuesday, Pres. Peterson and wife, with one or
two other sisters accompanied us to Manti, where
meeting was held in the Council House in the
afternoon. Sister M. A. Hyde presiding, as is
usually the case when there are two or more lo
cal Presidents. Sister Rebecca Wareham, Prest.
of South Ward,and Sister Jane Casto President of


North Ward; each gave a verbal report, showing
the condition of the R. S. in the local wards. There
was also a report from the President of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Manti.
	In the evening we attended the bonjoint meet-
meeting of the Y. M. and Y. L. A regular pro-
gramme of exercises was rendered. The sub-
jects treated upon were interesting, and the asso-
ciation is no doubt making good progress.
	Wednesday morning, in company with Prest.
Maiben and his amiable wife, also Sister Alvira
Cox and the architect, Bro. Fulsom, we had the
pleasure of going through the Manti Temple,
which is now nearing its completion. No Latter-
day Saint can enter one of these sacred edifices
erected for the most holy ordinances, without feel-
ing inspired with e deep inward sense of the great
mission to be performed therein for the living and
for the dead.
	The same afternoon the two Primaries held a
joint meeting in the Council House, Miss Olive
Lowrey presiding. Brief notes of the meeting are
given in another column. While in Manti we
were entertained at Bro. Wareham's, where we
enjoyed our visit very much indeed. Their doors
are always open to the sisters who travel from
time to time in the interests of the organizations,
and the spirit of love and of peace overshadows
their habitation.
	Thursday morning, bright and early. Pres.
Peterson arrived ready to drive on to Mayfield.
The air was very frosty and the way was cold and
somewhat dreary; notwithstanding the goodly
company we couldn't converse much, on account
of the cold air.
	We reached Mayfield in time to keep the ap-
pointment made for eleven o'clock. Here we
found the sisters had a new Relief Society Hall,
which does great credit to the place and proves
their untiring energy and perseverance in good
works. Sister M. Olson presided, and the meet,
ing was well atteuded, a good spirit prevailing.
After partaking of a warm dinner, made more
agreeable still by the pleasant company assembled,
the party started for Gunnison, where there was
an appointment for three o'clock. Prest. Peterson,
having learned it was not safe to cross the river
the nearest way, had to drive several miles further
around, so that we were late in reaching Gunnison.
The meeting had already commenced, Sister
Helena Madsen presiding. The attendance was
very large. In one part of the hall the Primary
Association were seated, and it was evident they
enjoyed the instructions quite as well as the older
people. Verbal reports were given by the Pres.
of the Y. L. and P. A., and all seemed to enjoy
the coming together. Pres. Peterson gave out an
appointment for a special meeting in the evening.
The travelling party repaired to Bishop Madsen's
where we had a most enjoyable time. Attended
the evening meeting; Bishop Madsen presided,
but Pres. Peterson was the speaker of the occa-
sion. His remarks were well chosen, and cer-
tainly all must have been encouraged to persevere
in the path of duty, by the fatherly counsel and in
strnction imparted to them.
	Friday morning Bishop Madsen and wife and
Elder Metcalf joined the party, and we drove over
to Fayette. Meeting was appointed for 2 p.m.
Sister Jane Ann Bown presided. At Fayette, as
in all other places we visited, there was a warm
welcome for all the party. We stayed at Bishop
Bartholomew's, where we spent a very pleasant
evening with his interesting family and relatives.
Very early Saturday morning we left for Juab, and
reached there in time for dinner, and to caich the
train, reaching home at evening and finding all
well.
	The visit was in every respect a pleasant one,
and long to be remembered from the friendly
association and congenial companionship of the
brethren and sisters with whom we traveled, and
wherever we tarried upon the journey.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"JACK, THE FISHERMAN," by Elizabeth Stuart
Phelps, is a pathetic story of the net woven by
the demon alcohol to entrap the unwary. The
tale is told with a depth of pity and tenderness,
that should 'waken a responsive chord in the
heart of every person, to work for the rescue of
precious souls from the horrors of intemperance.
This little book is bound to be a powerful aid in
such a work. The price places it within the reach
of all. May it be widely read. It is pretiily
bound and fully illustrated. For sale at James
Dwyer's Book Store, price, 50 cts.


MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	Funeral services in honor of Sister E. R. Snow
Smith were held in the Nephi Tabernacle, on
Wednesday, Dec. 7th, 1887, at 12 o'clock, Prest.
Mary Pitchforth presiding. Choir sang,

	"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone."

	Prayer was offered by President Charles Sperry.
The choir sang,

	"Rest for the weary soul."

	Prest. Pitchforth said we had met to pay a
tribute of respect to our friend and sister, Sister
E. R. Snow Smith. She was The Elect Lady of
Zion, and was a noble woman, and she proved
herself worthy of the trust committed to her care.
Told of Sister Snow's kindness when the valleys
were first settled. "We mourn her loss and so-
ciety, but cannot help but rejoice that she re-
mained true and faithful." Hoped we would emu-
late her virtues and follow her example. She had
finished her work and gone to her reward, but she
would live in the hearts of the Saints forever.
"Every Latter day Saint owes Sister Eliza a tribute
of respect."
	Sister A. L. Bigler read from the Deseret News
a sketch of her life.
	Sister Maranda Bryan said Sister Snow had
lived a pure life. "We should try to emulate her
noble example."
	Sister Jane Picton said we had met on this
peculiar occasion to how our respect to the
honored dead. "Our sister was endowed with
precious gifts; her name is immortalized; she has
done much good in organizing, and we should be
grateful to our Father that she lived as long as she
did. May it be said of us when we have departed,
'They have kept the faith and been true to the
end.' " Singing,

	"Sister, thou wast mild and loveIy."

	Sister A. L. Bigler said all who would hear or
read of Sister Snow would respect her, and she
would live forever in our memories. She desired
to be humble and faithful.
	Sister Hannah Grover felt that no good word
that could be said was too much for Sister Snow.
She had gone home to her Father's house, and
there was rejoicing there. She knew that our Sis-
ter was the Prophet's wife when he was living.
She had been intimately associated with Sister
Snow in the Temple, and she loved to look upon
her beautiful face. "It would be well for us to
square ourselves and follow her example."
	Sister M. E. Teasdale felt incapable of speak-
ing on such an occasion. She loved Sister Snow,
and she highly prized a letter lately received from
her. She had gone to associate with her husband
and all the faithful Saints who had passed away,
and she thought there was great rejoicing when
she returned.
	Patriarch J. G. Bigler spoke of his early ac-
quaintance with Sister Snow, and of her integrity
under all circumstances. Spoke of her valuable
writings; said they were appreciated.
	Prest. Sperry told some interesting incidents
connected with his acquaintance with Sister Snow.
Said her name would be handed down to posterity.


"Let us emulate her example and make a success
of this life." Choir sang,

	"Creation speaks with awful voice."

Benediction by Bro. George Kendall.
		M. E. TEASDALE.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	At the residence of Mr. S. C. Dallas, the young
ladies of the 17th Ward Mutual Improvement As-
sociation held their regular meeting, Wednesday
evening, Dec. 14th, in the form of a surprise on
the Secretary, Miss Ella Dallas.
	President Julia C. Howe stated that the object
of the meeting was to do honor to the Secretary.
	Opened by singing, "Let us treat each other
kindly." Prayer by Sister Howe. Continued by
Singing, "Sowing." The following programme
was carried out:
	Miss Lizzie Smith presented the Secretary,
Ella Dallas, with a writing desk, completely fur-
nished, and a hymn book, both having the name
of the Secretary on them, and the following ad-
dress prepared and read by Vickie Clayton,
accompanied the presentation ot the same:

In behalf of the Y. L. M. I A. of the Seventeenth
	Ward, these sentiments are gratefully ex-
	pressed to the Secretary, Miss Ella Dallas.

DEAR ELLA:
	For five years past you have occupied the labori-
ous position as Secretary in our Mutuals, and have
been untiring in performing the many duties de-
volving upon you.
	At every meeting you have blessed us with your
presence and aid, always on time and at your post,
unswerving in the performance of your duties, and
striving to help those around you.
	It has ever been your object to spread sunshine
in the paths of the discouraged, to cheer the
hearts of those in sorrow, and to alleviate the bur-
dens of the depressed. From your noble charac-
ter, full of love, charity, sympathy, patience, and
others of those attributes which win love and ap-
preciation, we realize in you a faithful and valu-
able friend, and an example we will gain much by
following. We feel blessed by your presence,
and as sincere friends we desire to express our
feelings of gratitude and appreciation for the great
good you have been and still are doing for us.
	Accept, dear friend, this gift as a token of
esteem from us, and ever remember that no matter
where you may go, you will carry the love, respect
and best wishes of the band of sincere friends
with whom you have been associated in the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the 17th Ward.
	The friendship that has taken root in our hearts
for one deserving of so much good is eternal, and
our prayer is that you may live long upon the
earth, that the path of usefulness you have trod-
den in the past may be continued for many years
to come.
			VICKIE CLAYTON,
		In behalf of the Association.
	A song, with guitar accompaniment, was then
rendered by Lizzie Smith; Recitation by Priscilla
Smith; song, with guitar accompaniment, by Viola
Pratt.
	Sister M. Y. Dougall then made a few appropri-
ate remarks, endorsing the sentiments expressed
in the address, and felt that they were not over
estimated.
	Song, with guitar accompaniment, by Vickie
Clayton.
	Sister Ella Dallas then made a few remarks,
thanking the Association for the honors paid her
but she desired the good will of the members far
more than the gift.
	Sister Howe then endorsed the sentiments al-
ready expressed, and gave us all some very good
advice, especially in regard to health.


﻿Meeting then adjourned for one week, to meet
at Sister M. Y. Dougal's. Closed by singing
"Providence is over all." Benediction by Lizzie
A. Davis.
	Refreshments were then indulged in, and the
evening passed in a very pleasant and successful
manner.
		VICKIE CLAYTON, Ass't Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NEW YORK LETTER.

	January 1st, l888.
MY DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been so much engaged in humanitarian
work, that I have neglected to render due thanks
for your valuable little paper, although its interest
has not been lost, as it has made many friends to 
your associations,especially to the Mormon women;
it has opened the eyes of those who have perused
it to a better understanding of the Mormons' re-
ligious principles, which the general population
of the world does not understand. A few women
have been to Salt Lake City, for the purpose of
giving lectures on their return, and these only
falsified facts for a selfish purpose.
	Allow me to say, the contents of your little
EXPONENT are exceedingly entertaining. Among
the several weekly papers I receive, it is discussed
and treasured. Many ladies who have read it have
changed their ideas from horror to a friendly na
ture towards the Mormon women. The Constitu-
tional Convention is a wise movement at this time,
Utah should be free from slavery, and take her
place in line, with free and equal rights, as a
State.
	The Mormon people, who were driven from their
homes on account of their belief as a religious
sect, founded on the same book, and representing
the same principles as the various church sects
and creeds—but these various sects and creeds
have ever, disagreed from the first organization, of
divisions, from the time of the Christian dynasty.
	The rights of individual religions have
been fought, and the followers persecuted,
tortured and murdered as the Mormons;they have
been driven from their homes, through forests,
and over praries, and been hunted from state to
state, as though they were wild beasts of prey,
men pursuing them, and they fleeing before the
pursuers; women with infants in their arms and
young children following as they could, sleeping
at night in the wilderness, where wolves made the
night hideous with their howl, or on the praries,
where insects, serpents and lizards crawl around
them, still listening to the click of the rifle in the
hand of their pursuers.
	Alas! what do the priests, guides and Levites do
to-day under the term, free and independent na-
tional laws? Drive innocent religionists (like
those of the fifth century) fleeing in search of a
home and peace. They were cast into prison, and
shot even in prison walls, as though they were
wild beasts of prey. Such is orthodoxy, and yet
it is not dead; it still struggles to live, yet fast ap-
proaches its destination of death.
	At length they came out of the forest into a
desolate plain; no green grass, tree or shrub to
welcome them with a smile, or greet them with the
wave of a bough; the earth was crusted over, as
far as the eye could extend, with a carbonous
white substance, with a scattering of sagebrush,
the only indication of life.
	These persecuted people, citizens of a Republi-
can freedom and liberty, forced on, came to an
entrance between two massive, lofty mountains; it
appeared to them like a large gate thrown open
for their reception and protection, by the Great
Spirit whom they worship. Within this space
was no tent or cabin, no stream of the bright
sparkling water of life to refresh their weary and
torn bodies; they settled upon this desolate spot,
as the ancient Pilgrims who landed on our eastern

[Column 2]

shoresover two hundred years ago,who fell on their
knees on the Plymouth Rock, to give thanks for
their safe arrival; these people also fell on their
knees to render thanks for their escape from their
pursuers. Yet they have been persecuted in many
forms since, and yet are not free from persecution;
still they live, and have made that desolate land
bud and blossom as a full blown rose of many
colors.
	Please accept my best wishes, as ever,
			GENTILE FRIEND.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety ot Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, Dec. 13th, 1887.
Prest. Harriet Snow presiding. After singing
the hymn, "Once more we come before Thee,
Lord," prayer was offered by Coun. Widerborg.
Singing. "What was witnessed in the heavens."
	Prest. Hart iet Snow made a few opening re-
mark.
	Coun. Susannah P. Booth spoke at some
length upon the duties of mothers; encouraged
all to be energetic in performing all their
duties.
	Sister Hardy, from Willard City, reported
verbally. Spoke in loving terms of their
President. Related a dream; how the Lord
showed her to be contented in her circum-
stances.
	Sister Jensen, of Mantua, said: "We ought to
be satisfied with our lot wherever it is cast. I
used to think it ever I should share my home
and husbaud with others, it surely would kill
me, but now I have lived in the principle of
celestial marriage for eleven years, I find my-
self happy and satisfied."
	Sister Fannie Graehl: "I feel well to be one
with my sisters, and always feel that the testi-
mony of my elder sisters is true."
	Sister Albertsen of Bear River City: "I
have a testimony for myself; we should be true
and honest in all thiugs."
	Prest H. Snow moved we adjourn till 2
o'clock.
	Singing, "Come, come, ye Saints," etc. Bene-
diction by Prest. Mary Andersen.
	Afternoon session: Singing, "Praise ye the
Lord." Prayer by Emilia D. Madsen. Sing-
ing, "God moves in a mysterious way."
	Coun Widerborg: "The subject touched
upon this morning. the organization of the
Relief Society: is a grand one, when carried out
rightly." Related an incident to show how
much comfort we have received many times in
meeting together, in our trials Reported the
Scandinavian Society. "They have, by gather
ing together their small units, gathered from
the old country eighteen  persons. I am thank-
ful for every day we can feel that our whole
heart is in the service of God."
	Prest. Mary Andersen: "I realize that if we
have the Spirit of the Lord it matters not if
we say little or much; it will comfort some one.
If we earnestly search ourselves we will have 
plenty to do with No 1"
	Prest. Watkins spoke of the trying circum-
stances many are placed in at the present time,
and the death of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.
"Let us try to carry out the instructions she
has given us."
	Sister Cordon: "I am thankful that I have
a standing in this Church," Bore a strong
testimony to the principle of celestial marriage.
	Sister Susannah Facer: "My whole heart is
in the kingdom of God; we know we are in the
hands of the Lord; we know we are trying to
serve Him, and our enemies say we shall not,
but if we try to live right before the Lord
daily, He will stand by us; persecution is good
for us."

[Column 2]

	Bro. E. A. Box encouraged the sisters in
teaching each other; our duties to our children
cannot too often be mentioned; we should know
what kind of company our children are keep-
ing. "Let us be alive to our calling; when we
come in contact with one who is weak in faith,
let us sow faith where there is none, and reap
peace and happiness."
	Emilia D. Madsen made a few remarks; said
we should acknowledge the hand of the Lord in
all things.
	Bro. Wixum said, "In receiving the Gospel
we become initiated in the relationship of
Christ. Jesus said, 'Who is my brother and 
my sister? Those who serve me in righteous-
ness.'"
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing "O, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
Benediction by Susannah P. Booth.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the San Juan Stake, held at Bluff,
Dec. 4th, 1887, Prest. Jane M. Walton presid-
ing. Singing, "Joy to the world." Prayer by
Bishop Jens Neilson. Singing, "Torn from
our friends."
	Prest, Jane Walton made a few opening re-
marks; was glad to have the privilege of hold-
ing conference; would like to visit the several
branches in the Stake as soon as opportunity
offered; was sorry there was no one to represent
the different wards present.
	Minutes of the previous conference were
then read and approved, and the officers sus-
tained.
	Prest. J. M. Walton reported the Bluff
Ward; believed that there was a good feeling
among the sisters; she had full love and confi-
dence in them all; she hoped and trusted the
Society would prosper. Said that they had
money to buy grain, and hoped that some time
they would have a place to put it in. Spoke
of the principle of plural marriage, and said
she had a testimony for herself that it was
true.
	Prest. Josephine Wood reported the Prim-
ary of Bluff; said that the children were doing
as well as they could; felt willing to do all she
could to help them.
	Prest. Julia Butt said she had had no oppor-
tunity to visit any of the Primary Associations,
but thought they were doing well.
	Sister Betsy Burnham represented the Burn-
ham Ward; said they all felt well and were 
doing well.
	Prest. Margaret Nielson represented the
Young Ladies of Bluff Ward; said they were
doing as well as could be expected.
	Mary N. Jones spoke, and said she felt like
doing all the good she could. Wished that the
young would put in practice all the good coun-
sel that had been given during conference. Be-
lieved the sisters took great interest in their
meetings.
	Coun. Kisten Nielson said she could not
express her feelings as she would like; she
knew there was a great work to perform.
	Coun. Maggie Walton said she felt to do good
and improve, and hoped the young ladies
would be humble and prayerful and keep the
word of wisdom, and store their minds with
useful knowledge.
	Sister Martha Hammond said the sisters of
the Mancos Ward were storing up grain, and
felt that the brethren were sustaining them.
	Sister H. Barton said she wished to teach
her children correct principles; thought our
husbands should encourage us all they could.
	Prest. F. A. Hammond felt that we had been
abundantly blest, and that the Spirit of the
Lord had been with us. He hoped there was
no sister but what had her name enrolled in
the Relief Society, and all the young ladies.
Was pleased to live to see the time when


[Column 1]

woman had come to live in her proper place
this being the only Church where woman was
given her proper place; said they were help-
mates in the kingdom of God. Spoke at some
length on the usefulness of woman. Gave very
good counsel to the different Societies; wished
some of the brethren would get ready and take
the Stake Officers around to visit the different
wards. Wished the young men and young
ladies would get good books and study them.
	Sister Jane M. Walton made some closing
remarks, and adjourned conference for three
months.
	Choir sang, "Nearer, my God, to Thee."
Benediction by Coun. Wm. Halls.
		JULIA BUTT, Secretary.

UTAH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake convened in the meeting
house at Provo City, Dec. 9th, 1887, Prest
John presiding, assisted by her Counselors;
Sister Elizabeth Howard, from Salt Lake, also
present. Conference opened by singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former confer-
ence, etc.
	Prest. John said, "A few of us have met to-
gether in conference, and I ask God for His
Holy Spirit to be with us while we are together.
I am pleased to meet with my sisters again; let
us be united and be charitable one to another
humble and kind, willing to overlook each
other's weaknesses and imperfections; never
criticise the speaking of our sisters; we are all
new beginners; let us bear our testimonies to
the truth of this work. I wish to bear my
testimony to the truth of celestial marriage;
I know the sisters are tried at present, but be
patient and all will come out right in the end;
let us pray for strength"
	Sister Marilla Daniels said, "It is with
pleasure that I meet with you again after my
journey out in the world." The speaker gave
quite an interesting account of her journey
among friends in the East, and also across the
ocean to Europe, and spoke of her pleasure in
being home again and mingling with the
Saints.
	Sister Howard, the next speaker, was pleased
to meet with the sisters in Provo; hoped she
should have the faith and prayers of all, that
she might be enabled to say something that
would be beneficial to us. "It is just as neces-
sary for us to come to meeting to be instructed
as it is to eat our food. Let us do right; if we
are right and trying to do right we need not
care what others say of us. Let us uever say
anything but good of our sisters" Spoke on
order and punctuality and as the time was spent.
the conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Benedic-
tion by Emily G. Cluff.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p.m., with
usual exercises, after which Sister Howard re-
sumed her remarks, giving a very interesting ac-
count of the Sisters' Conference held in S. L.
City on the previous day; also read from the
EXPONENT the last-remarks of Sister E. R
Snow Smith at a Relief Society meeting; also
gave the sisters much useful counsel and ad-
vice on various subjects calculated to benefit
the sisters, etc. Said, "The enemy is trying in
every way to overcome and destroy us. Mothers
should educate their daughters in the ways of
the Lord; teach them what they are here for;
teach our boys to be honest and upright; let
us pray for the Spirit of God, that we may
learn of His ways; we must be continually on
the watchtower; let us take care of our bodies,
so that we will not need doctors; we will have
faith and power enough yet that we will ask
God and He will heal our children; let us not
be wrong-doers, but wise as serpents and harm-
]ess as doves. We must bring our minds in
conformity to the will of the Almighty." Spoke
of the cast that was growing up in our midst,

[Column 2]

and said the Lord was not well pleased on ac-
count of it. "Let us not forget our prayers,
nor forget to pray for our brethren who are in
prison for conscience' sake. Father's hand is
in everything, and He overrules all things for
the good of Zion; it behooves us to be faithful
and pure; we are the salt of the earth, the light 
of the world; the Lord's work is wonderful."
The speaker exhorted the sisters to come to
meeting and get the Spirit of God to help
them. "Teach your children to read the Con
stitution of the United States and all good
books, and gain knowledge for themselves. I
pray that the Lord will pour out His Spirit
upon all, in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Prest. Smoot said, "I have listened with
pleasure to the remarks of Sister Howard per-
taining to the interests of Zion. We are all
prone to evil, yet the Lord has instituied
principles, that if we heed, we will be enabled
to overcome. Among the true Saints there are
no classifications; the poor and the meek will
inherit the earth, so say all the prophets, and
our Savior called or chose the poor of the
earth to do His bidding; our sympathy should
be towards them. When this earth is redeemed
all who serve the Lord will meet on this earth
in its purified state, aud we will have a Sab-
bath of rest, free from all our troubles, ruled
over by our Savior; the Lord has promised
these things to His people. We should begin 
to-day to put away our follies and be independ-
ant; we will then begin to live the celestial
law; we talk about a celestial law, but we know
very little about it Eternal life is the greatest
gift of God, and if we gain it we must live for
it; if we cannot abide our covenant, we had
better not make them; if we can live up to
them it is well. Obedience is better than Sacri-
fice—obedience to the law of God or the sacred
oracles; our Savior said, 'My sheep know my
voice and will follow me, but they know not
the voice of a stranger.'" The speaker spoke
of the great responsibility resting on mothers
in the teaching of their childien; said, "Train
your daughters to be modest and plain, and
sociable with one another; be not proud; we
make ourselves slaves to Babylon; let us make
our adornments the work of our own hands; it
is better to seek the riches of eternity than
Babylon; be careful to make home happy, that
your children will think home is the best place
for them; be of good cheer you are doing a
good work, and the Lord will bless you there-
in," etc.
	Father Graves spoke a short time in the in-
terest of the silk association, followed by Sister
M. A. Till, President of the Society in Utah
Stake. She had some handkerchiefs on exhi-
bition manufactured from cocoons raised by
the sisters; the handkerchiefs were for sale;
there were also "two pieces of goods on hand.
which it was proposed to donate to the Temple
at Manti, to aid in the furnishing or decorating
of the same. A vote was taken and carried
unanimously; that it be given to the Temple.
	Sister John made a few explanatory remarks
concerning the goods, saying that the means to
purchase the cocoons, from which the goods
had been manufactured, had been donated by
the sisters of the Society, and, therefore she
thought it but right to get their vote as to its
disposal, and also to give it as a donation from
Utah Stake.
	Sister Standring spoke of the advantages of
these Societies, in educating the sisters in the
things of the kingdom of God. Said, "We
will each be judged by our own works," etc.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said she felt the Spirit
of the Lord had been with us; we had also
been blest in having Sister Howard and Prest.
Smoot with us to instruct us "We ought to
live in such a way that we would have the
Spirit of God with us at all times "
	Sister John felt to rejoice at the good spirit
that had been,with us to-day. We will now

[Column 3]

adjourn our counference for three months."
Benediction by Mother Duke.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FREAKS OF NATURE.

	A little to the south and considerable to the
west of Fillmore can be seen a beautiful white
knoll, or small hill. It is round, coming to a
peak in the center; very much resembling a
snow capped mountain, when viewed from the
city. But as the investigator approaches, he
finds, instead of snow, a white sand, supposed
to be volcanic ash, and certainly there seems
some foundation for the supposition, as, im-
mediately beyond the whole surface of the
earth is rent with openings running in all di-
rections as if caused by an earthquake Some
of these openings measure three and four feet
across, the depth being unknown.
	If a rock is thrown down it can be heard
striking from side to side, the sound coming
faint and fainter, until it is entirely lost by
distance.
	Adventurers deem it great sport to enter
these crevices and follow them both downwards
and in the direction of the rent. Sometimes
subterranean caves are found, which differ in
size, shape, and beauty. Caves can not be
found in all the crevices, but they abound in
great e ough numbers to securely conceal, at
least, half of those convicted for unlawful co-
habitation.
	If they were ever followed the pursued or
the pursuers would each do well if he were
able to keep track of his own person.
	About a mile and a half's climbing over
trenches and huge boulders of lava, will bring
you to two caves, one representing a very large
room, rather longer than wide, high in the
centre, and gradually sloping from the centre
to the ground. In shape very much like a
blubber of soap found floating upon water
and who knows but that this huge cave was
once filled with gas, which finally made its
escape where we found an entrance. The
second cave is very much inferior in size and
beauty, there being several openings through
the top. This cave is also very narrow, and, in
some places, not high enough to allow a man
of medium height to stand erect. Both must
be examined by an artificial light.
	Verging on this volcanic mountain is a mea-
dow, dotted here and there with springs. In
some the water is a little warm. They are
very much alike in shape and surroundings.
One of the most artistic is almost square, 
walled up with rock, as if by the hand of man.
In one corner is an opening through which
the sparkling water makes its escape. The
spring being somewhat elevated, the water
forms a miniature fall, producing an exquisite
effect upon the eye.	
		L. C.


CONJOINT PRIMARY MEETING.

	Special meeting of the Primary Associations
of Manti, held in the Council House, Wednes-
day afternoon, Dec 14th, 1887, Olive Lowry
presiding. Singing. "Beautiful Zion." Open-
ing prayer offered by Bishop H. Jensen. Sing
ing "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Exercises
as follows: Reading by Cyrena Hanson,
entitled, "What boys should learn;" Song,
"Footsteps on the stairs," by Vernie and Addie
Snow; Recitation, entitled, "Are the children
at home?" by Gertrude Jensen; Song by seven
little girls, entitled, "Sing me a song," Recita-
ton, "The Christmas party," by Howard Cox.
Song by Lillian and Sofrona Ludvigson, organ
accompaniment by Annie Ludvigson; Recita-
tion by Annie Ware; Class exercise, subject,
"Martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith,"


by a class of little girls, conducted, by Eliza
Keller. Song, "Hard times come again no
more," by Gena and Leah Reid; Recitation by
Eddie Bench, entitled, "Two little squirrels,"
Recitation by Emily Keller, "Three days in
the life of Columbus," Song, "Down by the deep
sad sea," by Ethel Lowry, Organ accompani-
ment by Dora Lowry; Recitation, "The old
hat," by Lawrence Lowry; Organ music by
Rosetta Hougard.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells addressed the chil-
dren in a very interesting manner. Expressed
her pleasure in listening to the exercises which
had been rendered. Advised the children to 
encourag all their playmates to attend Prim-
ary meetings and they would then be perform-
ing missionary labors. Related several interest-
ing stories, and asked many questions which
are very beneficial for children.
	Sister Mary A. Hyde made some appropriate
remarks after which meeting adjourned. Sing-
ing "Dare to do right." Benediction by Prest.
J. B. Malben.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM ST. JOHNS A. T.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought a few lines from St. Johns might
be of interest to the readers of the EXPONENT
to let you know how we are getting along in
this far off land. I am pleased to say that the
prospects look brighter than they have in the
past. We have a good Relief Society here
with our beloved Sister, Lucinda Richey, for
President, with her Counselors, Helena Jensen
and Hannah Arnold who are women always
on hand to do all the good they can for the
Society; we have, also, a good band of teachers
who are willing to do their duties as well as
the rest of the sisters; in fact, I think we have
as good a Relief Society here as they have
anywhere, as we have, in the past, had quite a
little to contend with; but we have yet re-
mained faithful to our mission; and I think
that I can truthfully say as one of our leading
men said, that those who stayed here were in-
deed Latter day Saints.
	We were organized as the St John's Stake
of Zion, on the 24th of July, by the visiting 
brethren. We have for Stake President of 
the Relief Society, Sister E. L. Udall, with
Sisters T. A. White and E. M. Patterson Coun-
selors, and Sister E. M. Farr, Secretary.
	The Brethren met with the sisters on the
25th and gave us some very good instruction
as to our duties as wives and mothers, and also
explained to us the necessity of living up to
all the principles of the Gospel.
	We have, for Stake President, D K. Udall
with E. Treeman and W. Gibbons counselors.
As Bishop, Willard Farr, with Erick
Larson and Niels P. Johnson Counselors.
	We feel to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in having good and upright men to lead
and guide us. Ever praying for the welfare
of the EXPONENT, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
			CLAUDINA JENSEN, Secretary.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Stone bullets were used in 1514; those of
iron are first mentioned in 1550.
	Miss Phoebe Couzins has announced herself
as an independent Prohibition candidate for
Governor in Missouri.
	Miss Amelia B. Edwards, the English novel-,
ist and archaeologist, has been lecturiug on
"Old Egypt" to crowded houses.
	David Dudley Field takes exercise at the
age of eighty-two years by walking eight mile


every day and riding horse back for an hour
besides.
	It has been estimated that the number of
youug ladies who find regular and profitable
employment as type-writers in New York city
alone reaches beyond two thousand.
	Mrs. H. M. Tracy Cutler rejoices in the fact
that she is now a great-grandmother, while her
own mother still lives, hale and healthy, al-
though more than ninety years of age.
	During the year ending October 31st, there
were 19,226 visitors to Burn's cottage at Ayer.
The visitors are from all parts of the world,
most of those from abroad being Americans.
	The building for the Ramona Indian Girls
School at Santa Fe, N. M., commemorating
Helen Hunt Jackson, will cost $30,000. It
will accomodate one hundred and fifty pupils.
	The memorial in favor of granting degrees
to women at Cambridge University, England,
had more thau 500 signers, of whom 40 were
head mistresses of publje schools, 211 assist-
ant mistresses in public schools, and 42 profess-
ors and lecturers.


﻿RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has in His infinite
wisdom, taken from our midst our worthy and esteemed
fellow laborer in the Payson Relief Society, Sister Eliza-
beth Lant, and
	Whereas, The intimate relations held during her long ser-
vices both in the District and Ward Societies of this branch
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we,
the officers and members of the Relief Society deem it
proper as a mark of respect that we record our apprecia-
tion of her; therefore be it
	Resolved. That the wisdom and ability which she had
shown in assisting to promote these worthy enterprises for 
many years will be held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved, That the sudden removal from our midst of
such a sister will be deeply felt, especially in the district
over which she presided, and will prove a loss to the gener-
al public.
	Resolved, That with deep sympathy we condole with
the afflicted husband and children and friends of the de-
ceased, and express our earnest hopes that even so great a
bereavement may be overruled for good.
	Resolved That these resolutions be spread upon the Re-
cord of the Ward and District Societies of Payson, and that
an Engrossed copy be given to the bereaved family, and
that a copy of the same be published in the Territorial
Enquirer and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
				JANE A. DANIELS,
	Committee.	CLARISSA MOORE,
				SARAH BREWERTON.


OBITUARIES.

	[To the memory of Sister Clara Manirva Draper,
daughter of Albert E. and Clara Draper who departed this 
life December 2nd 1887.]
	Whereas, in the providence of an alwise God, he has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved Sister, Maner-
va Draper, who has suffered with patient endurance through
her great affliction. And,
	Whereas, Our departed friend and associate, was worthy
our highest regard and affection, her labors in our asso-
ciation, also as a teacher in the Sabbath School, and a 
member of the choir, being faithfully performed, We feel
that some proper recognition of her virtues be had among
us.
	Whereas, Her long suffering has been purifying and en-
nobling, and as an example to all, will ever be one worthy
of imitation.
	Resolved, That we as members of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Moroni City realize the loss of so faithful a member.
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy and condo-
lence to the sorrow stricken family and friends, hoping that
the Spirit of the Almighty will comfort them in their sad
hour of affliction.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolutions
to her parents, that one be sent to the Home Sentinel


also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and one
be placed on the Young Ladies record.
				ANNA M. HARDY,
				ANNIE RASMUSSEN
	Committee.	MARY KEMP,
				SARAH E. KELLETT,
				NANCY ANDERSON.

	DIED, at her residence in Wanship, at 10:30 a.m., Nov.
26, 1887, Carolina Dortha Peterson, born in Goderstof,
Holstein, Germany, Oct. 8th, 1835. She emigrated to
Denmark in 1847 with her parents Henry and Christine
Madeline Dabelstein and was there married to Andrew
Peterson on April 27, 1857, to whom she bore seven sons
and five daughters. One daughter has gone before her;
the rest, with their father, feel the great loss of a beloved
wife and mother. She received the Gospel, with her hus-
band, in 1851 and was baptised on the 4th of February in
that year. The Lord manifested great power in her be-
half. She emigrated to Utah with her husband and family
in 1866. She received her washings and anointings in the
house of the Lord in 1868 and had twice been in the
house of the Lord at Logan to perform Ordinances for her
dead relations and friends. She embraced all the known
principles of the Gospel. She was a member of the Wan-
ship Relief Society and had been a teacher for many years
performing all duties faithfully. She died, as she lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint, which was shown by her last
charge to her family to be true to the Gospel for that is
true and all the principles thereof and listen to the counsel
of their father as she had done and God would bless them.
The funeral was conducted by Bishop Young at the late
residence of the deceased and appropriate remarks made
by Counselor William Crook. Henry Reynolds, Counselor
to the Prest. of the High Priest Quorum and Bishop Ma-
lin of Rockport. She was followed to the cemetery by a
large multitude of her relations and friends and dedicatory
prayer offered by Elder Henry Reynolds.	COM.


﻿R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 336. SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
		Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In
	fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1888.	NO. 16.


A LEGACY.

BY JOHN G. WHITIER.

		Friend of my many years!
When the great silence falls, at last, on me,
Let me not leave to pain and sadden thee
		A memory of tears.

		But pleasant thoughts alone
Of one who was thy friendship's honored guest,
And drank the wine of consolation pressed
		From sorrows of thy own.

		I leave with thee a sense
Of hands upheld and trials rendered less—
The unselfish joy which is to helpfulness
		Its own great recompense;

		The knowledge that from thine,
As from the garments of the Master, stole
Calmness and strength, the virtue which makes whole
		And heals without a sign;

		Yea more the assurance strong
That love, which fails of perfect utterance here
Lives on to fill the heavenly atmosphere
		With its immortal song.

	Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.


"THE HEART KNOWETH ITS OWN
			BITTERNESS."
	BY WM. H. S. ATKINSON.
			(Proverbs xiv. 10.)
Aye, the heart knoweth—every pang of sadness,
	Each weight of anguish that we have to bear;
Knoweth the tear which drowns the smile of gladness,
	The crushing sorrow and the anxious care.

Knoweth the heavy burdens that beset us,
	The hopes that back return with crushing force,
The disappointments keen that daily fret us,
	Each sense of shame and feeling of remorse.

Knoweth full well the aching desolation,
	Which comes to us when last good-byes are said,
The failure of each tendered consolation
	To soothe us, as we kneel beside our dead.

Knoweth what hurts us more than death or sorrow,
	The wounded pride which comes with sore defeat,
The yearnings weak that die with each to-morrow,
	The rude awakenings from illusions sweet.

Aye, the heart knoweth—knoweth and remembers,
	As loves of other days become outgrown,
As we stand o'er old friendship's whitening embers—
	Each heart must bear its bitterness alone.


[Column 1]
	TRUE WOMEN.
	Careful, considerate girls are likely to become
prudent and wise women.  I do not mean to
say that girls who are giddy, perhaps wayward,
and possibly vain and selfish, may not, in after
life, settle down and make good, conscientious
wives and mothers; but I do say, that with such
there are great risks to run, and that the earlier
in life they begin to lay aside their follies, the
better chance there is for their becoming true
women.
	How necessary it really is, that while girls
are very young, they learn to be true in all
things!  To be true we must be honest in all
respects.  There is nothing to choose between
false words and false actions.  A deceitful heart
will manifest itself both by insincere utterances
of the tongue and hypocritical performances.

[Column 2]
	The heart, then, is the object to be carefully
guarded, put through a thorough self examina-
tion, and if found to be not quite true in any
wise, to be made so, and kept so.  It is impossi-
ble for finite beings to estimate the real worth
of a true heart.  All the accomplishments
which belong to a genteel education, all the
scholastic learning of which it is possible for
mortals to possess themselves, even the gifts of 
mental superiority, which belong to genius, are
of small value if not coupled with true-hearted-
ness.
	There is a power in the consciousness of being
true, which those wanting it do not understand,
a moral strength, a fortitude which enables its
possessor to endure many things which, without
it, were unendurable, and to find joy in that
which else were pain.
	No woman who possesses this strength of 
character can become entirely absorbed in her
own personal interests; she must be thinking
and working for the welfare of others, and the 
more she thinks, and the more she exerts her-
self in that direction, the greater is her power
to lay aside that selfishness, which is natural to
humanity, and the truer she becomes.
	No woman can be really true who is afraid
of meeting with ridicule.  There are always 
those who are ready to laugh down the honest
convictions of the timid and over sensitive.
But a true independence of mind enables a 
woman, as well as a man, to differ, without fear,
from the times in which she lives, if she thinks
it right to do so.  Not insolently, but with
modest earnestness, to make a point of morals
and what she considers good sense, rather than
to be carried helplessly along upon the cruel,
uncertain and unsatisfactory breeze of fashion.
A woman who is thus true to her convictions,
will gain and maintain, in course of time, the
respect and confidence of the world about her;
and what is even more, the approval of her
own conscience.
	Will the gentlemen of her acquaintance
really think as much of her, if she shows signs
in any way, of having ideas and opinions of
her own, as they would do if she simply fol-
lowed after the suggestions and fancies of 
others?  Those whose respect is worth her seek-
ing or caring for will; and for the rest, she has
no need to trouble.
	Let me give a sentence here from one of the
most intelligent and conscientious of modern
writers, the Rev. Joseph A. Seiss.  He says:
	“There is a trueness, a readiness, a self-com-
mand and a fertility of resources in a genuine
woman, of which all kings and all men do
well to avail themselves, whether in shadow or
in sunshine. *   *   *  If woman is apt to be
agitated with trifles, yet when some great crisis
comes she has more calm magnanimity than a
thousand lords—more sense and self-possession
than they all.  From her finer strung nature,
she may feel it the more afterward and suffer
the more severely from the rebound, but while
the dread crisis is upon her, the other sex sinks
greatly by comparison.”
	This sentiment, remember, is a man’s opinion
of a genuine woman.  There are many to whom
such an eulogy could not be correctly applied,
many miserable “make-believes” among women
as well as among men.  But of such we are
not now treating.  With all true women, I be-
lieve there is a certain reverence for the good
opinion of good men.  And any of these, unto
whose notice the above quotation may come,
must feel that Joseph A. Seiss is deserving of

[Column 3]
their honest thanks, for the high compliment
he has paid them.
	Let us hope that the time is not far distant
when the entire sisterhood among the Latter-
day Saints will be worthy of and also awarded,
the general admiration and appreciation of
their fathers, brothers, husbands, sons and
friends; but above all, the loving approbation
of the Eternal Father. 
	L.G.R.


THE SWEDISH NIGHTINGALE.
	JENNY LIND.
The renowned northern vocalist, who so 
charmed the ears and thrilled the hearts not 
only of the votaries of the muse and her sister-
hood of song, but to all civilized nations, has 
recently passed away. With the mere mention
of her name—Jenny Lind— how the memory 
is stirred and seemingly reverberates with the 
sweet echoes of her voice and her wonderful 
achievements in the realm of song. Once to 
have heard her rich melodies, her bird-like 
notes and soft cadences, was a treasure of 
memory, never to be forgotten; for even after 
the long interval of time that has elapsed since
she sang to us, the delicious music still seems to 
vibrate on the ear.   *   *   *   *
	Although so wonderfully gifted, she was yet
most simple, unpretending and modest; full of
impulse and dramatic power, she was yet en-
tirely free from conventionalism.
Born at Stockholm Oct. 6, 1821, of parents
in the humbler walks of life, she may be said 
to have inherited a fortune in herself, for she
was almost cradled in song. From a very 
early age she evinced a love for music, and the 
rare beauty of her voice was remarkable, as 
well as her aptness in reading and retaining 
any musical composition.
	The power and pathos of her voice when she 
was yet very small, and only nine years of age,
was noticed by an actress, through whose kind 
offices Jenny was admitted into the Conserva-
tory of Scockholm, where she received lessons 
from Croelius and Berg, two eminent instructors.
Her ambition, which was to excel, was en-
couraged by her teachers. Her progress was 
wonderful, and it was greatly promoted after 
she had left the conservatory, by her residence 
with the family of the popular Swedish com-
poser, Adolph Frederick Lindbad.
	When ten years old, she made her first ap-
pearance on the stage as one of the geuii in 
Mozart's “Il Flauto Magico.” 
	Her debut as an artist took place in Stock-
holm in 1838, when she sang Agatha in “Der
Freischtuz” Previous to that she had passed 
through a most trying experience. At the age 
of twelve she lost the upper register of her 
voice, and for four years suffered the greatest 
anxiety lest her future should prove to be 
blighted. During those four years she was 
taught by Henry Berg, a man of sensitive 
nature and a musician of more than ordinary
ability. After two years under his guidance
she could once more reach the upper B natural 
without undue effort. Her success in Agatha 
was such that she subsequently sang the princi-
ple role in “Euryanthe,” Alice in “Robert le
Diable,” and Julia in Spontini's “La Vestale,”
all with blilliant success. She was the life of
the Royal Theatre until 1841, when she went 
to Paris to improve her style of singing. In 
Paris she studied nine months under Manuel


Garcia. The development of her voice,
naturally hard and inflexible, was mainly due
however, to her own indomitable energy and to
the high ideal which she kept constantly before
herself. Even in her childhood the tinge of 
melancholy, natural to most Swedes, gave to
her singing a character which frequently
brought tears to the eyes of her hearers. Meyer-
beer was in Paris while she was pursuing her
studies, and when he heard her he predicted a
brilliant future for the young artist. His in-
troduction led to her having, in 1842, a hearing
at the Opera, which was attended by Haydn,
Vasseur, Rossini and other prominent musicians
of the day. The Director of the Opera did
not go to hear her through the influence, it is
said, of Mlle. Stoltz, the reigning prima
donna.
	Jenny Lind did not secure an engagement at
the Opera, and she is said to have determined
never to sing in Paris. Through Meyerbeer’s in-
fluence she went to Berlin in 1844 and began 
the study of German. In September of that
year she went to Stockholm to take part in
the fetes attending the crowning of King Os-
car, but in October she returned to Berlin,
where, again through the influence of Meyer-
beer, who had written for her the leading role
in his “Feldlager in Schlesien,” better known
as “L’Etoile du Nord,” she obtained an en-
gagement at the Opera. Her first appearance
took place on Dec. 15, when she sang “Norma”
and was received with great enthusiasm. After-
ward she sang with equal success her new role
in the Meyerbeer opera.
	In the following April she sang in Hamburg,
Cologne and Coblentz After making this
tour she returned to Stockholm by way of
Copenhagen, once more achieving a triumphant
success. In 1845 she made the acquaintance
of Mendelssohn, and under his direction she
appeared at the Gewandhaus concerts in
Leipsic on Dec. 6. She has said that Mendels-
sohn wrote for her the soprano part in his
“Elijah,” and that he had other things in view
for her which were prevented by his early
death. While she was in Berlin she met Mos-
cheles, who, on Jan. 10, 1845, wrote thus of
her performance in “L’Etoile du Nord:” “Jenny
Lind has fairly enchanted me; she is unique in 
her way, and her song, with two concertante
flutes, is perhaps the most incredible feat in
the way of bravura singing that can possibly
be heard.”
	In 1850 she made an engagement with P.
T. Barnum, who brought her to the United
States, where, at Castle Gardens, New York,
she commenced a series of concerts, the receipts
for the tour being $610,000, and her share be-
ing $302,000. On Feb. 5, 1852, she married
Otto Goldschmidt, in Boston, who accompanied
her as pianist. After a series of triumphs in
England she and her husband became lead-
ing professors at the Rhenish Academy of
Music.
	At one of her concerts at Castle Garden, an in-
teresting incident occured, during the perform-
ances. Jenny Lind, as usual, was encored, and
seeing John Howard Payne in one of the stage
boxes, she sang “Home, Sweet Home,” with such
wonderful effect and pathos, that the entire 
audience rose up, in testimony of their regard
for both writer and singer,
	During her stay in this country Jenny Lind
gave away about $90,000 in charities. This 
city was music mad in 1851, and in 1852 with 
her and Katherine Hayes and Alboni, all of
whom gave concerts at Tripler Hall.
	On her reutrn to Europe, Mme. Jenny Lind-
Goldschmidt, as she was now called, traveled
through Holland and again visited Germany.
In 1856 she returned to England, which she
henceforth made her home. Until recent years
she appeared there frequently in concert and
oratorio. She sang in Exeter Hall, London,
in the “Creation,” Dec. 10, 1855, on Dec. 17
in the “Elijah,” and on Dec. 24 in the “Mes-

[Column 2]
siah.” On Nov. 17, 1869, she sang in Exeter
Hall, in her husband’s oratorio, “Ruth,” which
was then first heard in London. She said once
that her native land had little charm for her,
because it was never kind to her till the days 
of her prosperity. But that she had a warm
spot for it in her heart is attested by the fact
that she devoted the whole of her American
earnings to founding and endowing art scholar-
ships and other charities in Sweden. To Liver-
pool she gave a hospital, and she added a wing
to one in London. Among other things she
founded a scholarship in memory of her friend
Mendelssohn, and the first scholar elected to it
was Sir Arthur Sullivan.
	During her visit to Bath, England, she hap-
pened to be walking with a friend in front of
some almshouses, into one of which she entered
ostensibly to rest herself but in reality to find
some excuse for doing an act of charity. An
old woman, like her neighbors, soon began to
refer to the arrival in their city of Jenny Lind,
and the pleasure the Theatre-goers were hav-
ing in hearing her sing. “For myself,” said
the old woman, “I have lived a long time in
the world and desire nothing before I die but
to hear her myself.” “Would it make you
happy?” was the response. “Ay, that it
would,” said the old woman,“but I shall never
hear her, since I cannot leave this place.”
“Don’t be so sure of that," said the good-natured
Jenny, “sit down, my friend,and listen;” when
forthwith the vocalist sang to her one of her
richest songs, and taking leave said: “Now you
have heard Jenny Lind.”
	The daily life of Jenny Lind in London was
extremely simple. Every morning, at 7:30
o’clock there were family prayers. At these
not only her husband, Mr. Goldschmidt, and
her three children, but the servants, assisted.
When breakfast was over she habitually retired
to her room on the second floor, and seated at
her writing-desk, opened and answered her
numerous letters. Her room which looked out
on a beautiful garden, was simply furnished.
The most notable piece of furniture in it was
a large screen, which had, pasted over its en-
tire surface, newspaper clippings from all parts
of the world eulogistic of the great singer.
Next to Jenny Lind’s room connected by a
door covered with portieres, was the room of
her husband. In it stood a grand piano, and
often Mr. Goldschmidt played on this instru-
ment at night until his wife, who was nervous
at times, was, by his performance, lulled to
sleep. The family sat down to lunch at 1
o’clock. Jenny Lind was a moderate eater
and fond of simple cuisine. In the afternoon
she took a walk when the weather was fine, and
purse in hand, distributed alms to the poor
whom she met. When she came home she
taught her select circle of pupils, and at
7 o’clock she sat down to dinner. She never
went to theatres, balls, or operas. She went to
hear Patti sing once, but she left the hall be-
fore the performance was over, saying that
Patti could act but she couldn’t sing. She
was rather sensitive on the subject of her
rivals. She attended not long since a garden
party, given by the Lady Burdette-Coutts. In
the course of conversation a gentleman speaking
of Christine Nilsson, called her the “Swedish
Nightingale.” Instantly there sprang up from
a seat close by, an aged, thin woman, who
pointed her finger at the speaker, and ex-
claimed in a voice quivering with rage: “You
are wrong, sir, you are grossly wrong; I am the
‘Swedish Nightingale.’ I am Jenny Lind!”
	She liked to read aloud in the evening, or
she chatted about her triumphs to her favorite
pupils. Though she possessed magnificent
jewels she never wore them. She was exceed-
ingly fond of her husband, though they had
disagreements at times; and she always said
that it was owing to Mr. Goldschmidt’s man-
agement that she was in such easy financial
circumstances. She brought up her children

[Column 3]
well. Her son Walter is a lawyer; her son
Ernest is an officer in the army; her daughter
Jennie was married to Mr. J. H. Maude.
She spent her summers partly at Wiesbaden
and partly in Kainzenbad. At Weisbaden,
whither she went to take the baths for her
rheumatism, she lived at her own villa.
	Not merely in the simple ballad or passion-
ate lyric has she achieved her highest triumph.
It was in religious music that the quality of
her voice and soul found fullest development.
It was in sacred music that her round notes
swelled into their richest harmony; and she
seemed among her kindred when she spoke a
holy mission—“I know that my Redeemer liv-
eth, and that in my flesh I shall see God." The
rapture of conviction seemed in every syllable
of her utterance. Such music not only en-
riches the language with which it is immediate-
ly linked, but summons into presence from ob-
scure haunts of the memory all the poetry of
thought that has ever entered it.
	She was one of those lovely gifted spirits,
whom a time of peace sends forth to humanize
the world and to link  the nations together.
Sweden, has done much in this respect. In its
darker times, even, it had its true hero—Gus-
tavus Adophus; in its last age, its benignant
Linnaeus, with his child-like heart and his love
of flowers, as well as his love of nature; in our
own day it gives us Frederika Bremer and
Jenny Lind—women who, in their own great
and noble powers, have no superiors in the
world.—Woman.
	S. FREDERICKS.


122	 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Science removes ignorance but it does not
correct ill nature.
	Falsehood may have its hour, but it has no
future.
	A rich man without liberality, is like a tree
without fruit.
	Humility kneels in the dust but gazes on
the skies.—Archer Butler.
	The blue of heaven is larger than the cloud.
—E. B. Browning.
	Provided you do not tire of seeking, you
will find what you seek at last.
	Though we have a thousand friends, still we 
lack; but one enemy is too much for us.
	There is a pedigree of the body and a pedi-
gree of the mind,—Wendell Phillips.
	We speak of educating our children; do we
know that our children also educate us?—Mrs.
Sigourney.
	There is danger in keeping silent when we
should speak, but more in speaking when we
should hold our tongues.
	“My little son, you should not say your
prayer so hurriedly, but take time to think.”
“Why mother, it isn't me that has to think, it’s 
Claire; I can say my prayer without thinking.”


At the last meeting of the Hartford (Ct.)
Equal Rights Club, Mrs. S. G. Young read a 
letter from U.S. Senator Palmer, in which he 
said:
	“The enfranchisement of women, in my 
opinion, is not far off. Even conservative papers
concede that. Their right to vote should 
place the family as the foundation of the State.
The floating vote of nonstake-holders in soci-
ety would be neutralized.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TWO CITIES.

Side by side rise the two great cities,
	Afar on the traveler’s sight;
One, black with the dust of labor,
	One, solemnly still and white.
Apart, and yet together,
	They are reached in a dying breath,
But a river flows between them,
	And the river’s name is—death.

Apart, and yet together,
	Together and yet apart,
As the child may die at midnight
	On the mother’s living heart.
So close come the two great cities,
	With only the river between;
And the grass in the one is trampled,
	But the grass in the other is green.

The hills with uncovered foreheads,
	Like the disciples meet,
While ever the flowing water
	Is washing their hallowed feet.
And out on the glassy ocean,
	The sails in the golden gloom
Seem to me but moving shadows
	Of the white enmarbled tomb.

Anon, from the hut and the palace.
	Anon, from early till late,
They come, rich and poor together,
	Asking alms at thy beautiful gate.
And never had life a guerdon
	So welcome to all to give,
In the land where the living are dying,
	As the land where the dead may live.

O silent city of refuge
	On the way to the city o’erhead!
The gleam of thy marble milestones
	Tells the distance we are from the dead.
Full of feet, but a city untrodden,
	Full of hands, but a city unbuilt,
Full of strangers who know not even
	That their life-cup lies there spilt.

They know not the tomb from the palace,
	They dream not they ever have died:
God be thanked they never will know it
	Till they live on the other side!
From the doors that death shut coldly
	On the face of their last lone woe:
They came to thy glades for shelter
	Who had nowhere else to go.
	REV. S. MILLER HAGERMAN.


[Column 1]	
NEW YEAR’S DAY.
	This is New Year’s Day, looked upon by the
youth only as a holiday, a time of merry mak-
ing; but to those of us who are older, more
serious thoughts will come at this time.
	Another year has been numbered among the
things of the past and another page of our
life’s history has been turned over. How many
are wondering to-day what of weal and woe
this coming year will come to them? This is
something which no man knoweth; the future,
so far as details are concerned, is a sealed
book to us; and it is well that it is so. “Suffi-
cient unto the day is the evil thereof.” And
if there be bitterness and woe, disappointment
and sorrow in store for us, it is a merciful
Providence which hides it from our view. And
if it be joy and pleasure, more keen will be
our appreciation and enjoyment of it, that we
knew it not before hand. We should strive at
all times to cultivate a contented spirit, and
feel that whatever besets us it is all for the
best.
	Though we cannot peer into the future, we
are not denied the pleasure (a melancholy one
though it may be), of retrospection. Many of
our people have had a pitiful experience, caused
by religious persecution, even in the last few
years. Parents and children, husbands and
wives are separated, families broken up, com-
fortable homes have been abandoned, and great

[Column 2]
sacrifices been made; many are in exile, others 
in prison. Perhaps my experience has been
similar to that of other of my sisters, and this
is the first New Year's Day that our family 
has been privileged to enjoy together for four 
years, and this not under our own government.
I am reminded of the words of an Irish song:
	“Must we ask a mother’s welcome
	Of a strange, but happier land?”
though the comparison may not be very appro-
priate. Three years ago some of us were
making a toilsome journey with our little ones,
under most uncomfortable circumstances, travel-
ing through mud and snow, passing over a
bleak mountain road, on the first day of the
year, saved from perishing with cold only by a
kind Providence. Two years ago surrounded
by parents and friends, but far, far away from
my husband, our family widely scattered, and
feeling the greatest anxiety for the welfare of
the absent ones. One year ago, oh, how vividly
that comes to my mind, the mingled joy and
sorrow—sorrow at parting with dear aged
parents, with no hope of seeing them again in
this life, with kind brothers and sisters, and joy
in the sweet anticipation of soon meeting again
with the one dearer than all others on earth,
after a cruel separation of nearly two years.
The past year has indeed been fraught with
many changes and new experiences to me as to
many of my sisters.
	Life seems to be made up of meetings and
partings, disappointments and pleasure, which
are sometimes strangely mixed and blended.
Undertaking a railroad journey of hundreds
of miles, with a family of little ones, but feel-
ing a hundred fold repaid for all the care and
anxiety consequent thereto, by the reward re-
ward received, the privilege of once again asso-
ciating with my husband and our family. But
my happiness was too great to last unalloyed
by sorrow. Death claimed for his own one of
my loved ones, leaving a void which cannot be
filled; a mother’s heart cannot but yearn for
the dear one who has slipped away, and her
thoughts often wander to the little mound
which covers the mortal remains, although we
know it is foolish and wrong to grieve; we
know not the temptations and snares which
might have beset his path, the dangers which
he has escaped, and should feel to acknowledge
the hand of God in affliction as well as in
prosperity, for “the Lord giveth and the Lord
taketh away,” and He doeth all things well.”
	KATE.
	Jan. 1, 1887.


﻿ITEMS OF EXPERIENCE.

DEAR EDITOR:
	As I do not wish to be forgotten entirely by
the sisters in Zion, I thought that a few inci-
dents of my experience would not be uninterest-
ing to the readers of the EXPONENT:
	I left the City of the Saints about a year
ago, arriving in Ogden at ten o’clock the same
morning. We immediately proceeded on our
journey, arriving at Green River about mid-
night, where we were detained several hours
waiting for the westward bound Express to
pass. In due time we arrived at Cheyenne,
where we changed cars and continued on our
journey, arriving in Denver about six o’clock
Wednesday evening. We remained here some
four hours, which gave me a good opportunity
to view the city. The depot here entirely
eclipses our modest little one in Salt Lake City;
there are many magnificent buildings, and the
city presents a scene of bustle and thrift. The
cry, “All aboard,” greeted my ears as I arrived
at the depot, and in less time than it takes to
tell we are on our way again, speeding through
the darkness.
	The next place of interest was Kansas City,


and as I had heard before leaving that this
was once the home of some of our older brethren,
I wondered, while gazing at the palatial resi-
dences, when the time would come when the
Saints should be permitted to dwell in peace.
Resuming our journey once more, we arrived
at St. Louis next—all but the Saint part—
the streets are narrow, the houses high, smoky
and dirty, and, to my mind, much inferior to
the cities previously mentioned. Our next
stopping place was Cincinnati; being dark and
raining very heavily, I had no opportunity of
seeing this city. After some delay, we were
again on our way, arriving in the City of New
York Sunday, somewhat fatigued, and put up
at Smith and McNell’s Hotel in Greenwick St.
I found this hotel all that any one could desire,
	elegance, comfort and economy. When
rested I took a stroll through this far-famed
city of extreme wealth and squalid wretched-
ness, and said to myself, how is it our Christian
senators concern themselves so much about the
morals of the “Mormon” people, when they
could find so much wider scope, with much
more gratifying results for their philanthropy
nearer home?
	Hoping this may escape the waste basket, to
all I wish a happy New Year.
								IRENE


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Iowa has 18,748 women teachers in her
schools.

	Twenty-four young women have just
graduated from Bellevue Training School for
nurses. 

	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland is writing a
life of St. Augustine. She expects to have a
a volume of poems ready for publication in the
spring.

	The beautiful town that Frances Willard
makes the scene of her story, “Gladys and Her
Trycycle,” is a real place,—Evanstown, Ill.,—
where Miss Willard has lived for thirty years.
The characters only are imaginary.

	Mme. Furtado-Heine, who was recently
decorated with the Cross of the Legion of
Honor for her charitable acts, has just founded
Guerande, on the French seacoast, a maritime
hospital for scrofulous children.

	Queen Victoria is mourning the death of
her old nurse, Miss Skerrett, who recently
passed away at the mature age of 94. Miss
Skerritt had seen service under Queens Char-
lotte and Adelaide, and had nursed Queen
Victoria, the Prince of Wales and other royal
children.

	Mrs. M. P. Lemon, president of the Newton
County (Mo.) W. C. T. U., and mother-in-law
of Col. Sobieski, is over eighty years of age;
yet, during the late local option contest, she
canvased the whole county, speaking in every
township, and carried the county for prohibi-
tion.

	Dover, N.H., Jan. 17.—Yesterday there was
a surprise at the annual meeting of the stock-
holders of the Dover Street R. R. Co. Mrs.
Mary E. G. H. Dow, a wealthy resident and
leading advocate of woman’s rights, was elected
treasurer. She is the first woman ever chosen
to fill such a posstion.

	Miss Jane Gibson, of Glasgow, who has just
died at the age of one hundred and two years,
was the founder of the “John Gibson Bursar-
ies” in Glasgow University. She moved in the
brilliant Edinburgh literary society of the
Georgian period, and was able, until the last
few days, to take a lively interest in public and
literary affairs.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	
EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		-		Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,		-			JANUARY 15, 1888.


[column 1]

	INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.

	An International Council of Women is to be
held this year at the Nation's Capital. It will be
an event of great moment to women universally,
something "new under the sun," and will, without
doubt, seriously effect the question of woman's
equality before the law, and have a tendency to
impress strongly upon this nation and other
nations the intense earnestness women of intellect,
refinement and culture are giving to this compara-
tively new phase of woman as a citizen of the
world. It will give emphasis to the measures al-
ready advocated with such untiring energy and
unflinching integrity, by advanced thinkers, and
will also have a tendency to evolve other methods
of enterprise and achievement which will more
effectually lift the women of all nations into greater
light, and bring them up to that relative position
in the brotherhood of the world, that even-handed
justice demands for them, and that the intuition
and prophetic sense of the best and most mature
thinkers in the great battle of woman's rights,
have anticipated during the last forty years.
	It seems marvelous, when one considers the
condition of the women of our own nation even,
that forty years of effort should have wrought
such a wondrous change, as to admit of a mam-
moth jubilee such as this would be, though as yet
it can scarcely be called by so significant a 
term.
	In union there is strength, is often quoted, and
when the strongest and ablest women of several
nations combine to promote a great cause, their
united faith and power "will remove mountains,"
so to speak. The notices given through the press
of this International Council are indicative of the
increased influence of women in the various de-
partments of life. There are no slurs on her
weakness, no ridicule of her mental powers, but
the utmost respect and deference characterizes all
newspaper articles on the subject, that have come
under our notice.
	Forty years ago, in 1848, the first Woman's Con-
vention was held at Seneca Falls, New York. The
two women most prominent in calling it were
Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Mrs.
Stanton is still living and holds the office 
of President of the National Woman's Suff-
rage Association, under whose auspices this 
great call is made. That Convention held forty
years ago was the first public demand for 
equal educational, industrial, professional and
political rights for women ever made. Since
that time what vast progress and advance-
ment women have made, step by step, not only in
our own land, but in lands afar, under govern-
ments hostile to all measures for woman's higher
education and progression, in all her relations to
the home, or the state.
	This great change in public opinion, and in the
various conditions of woman as a helper and

[column 2]

worker are due mainly to the active forcos brought
to bear upon the question of woman's place, in
the first instances by the notable women of this
century who took part in that memorable conven-
tion, and other faithful diligent and fearless work-
ers, who have since been added to their ranks.
They have broken down the iron gates that barred
women out from the field of action where they
might receive the full growth of stature, and de-
velopment of talent, and having once opened
these iron-barred gates, hung upon the hinges
of ignorance and sealed so firmly by tradition,
the great multitude of women that have flocked in
thither have prevented their being closed again,
and are now storming the formidable fortress with-
in so effectually that it must soon yield peacable
possession to these helpers in the world's great
work, and side by side, and shoulder to shoulder,
brother and sister, man and woman will advocate
the triumph of right, in the momentous questions
that are now agitating the world of thought. 
	It may take forty years more, but we doubt it,
perchance not more than ten, when there may be
a real jubilee celebrated over the victory gained
in woman's cause. Woman's love for the true,
the noble, the pure and the infinite will be a po-
tent power in revolutionizing governments
when she is allowed to be the political equal of
man. Until woman is untrammeled in this re-
spect, she cannot possibly wield the same influence 
in public affairs.
	That this Herculean effort in behalf of all
women may be attended with the best results, and
that from this may emanate such wisdom and
power, as shall move the leaders in governments,
and the people, to a recognition of the difficulties
women so keenly feel, and the environments which
surround them now, that a revolution may soon
commence which shall be still more far-reaching
and effective in its methods than in the past, and 
ere long woman may stand in her beauty andmajes-
ty a free and independent being as she came upon
this earth, willing and ready to share the respon-
sibilities of earth-life, and never shrinking from
its duties and obligations even though fraught
with pain and sorrow. 
	The International Council of Women will be
held in Albaugh's Opera House in Washington,
D. C., commencing March 25, 1888, and will con-
tinue eight days. There will be sixteen public
sessions, giving ample opportunity for reporting
the various phases of woman's work during the 
last forty years. The call is made under the 
auspices of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, President;
Susan B. Anthony, First V. Pres.; Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Second V. Pres.; May Wright Sewall, Ch'm
Ex. Com.; Ellen H. Sheldon, Recording Sec'y;
Jane H. Spafford, Treasurer; Rachel G. Foster,
Cor. Sec'y.


[Column 1]
﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	SINCE the last issue of the paper the Legislature
of the Territory has assembled, organized and
commenced the important work of law-making
and so forth. As this is the first session since the
passage of the Edmunds-Tucker bill, its doings
will be severely scrutinized and commented upon
by those who are so anxious to abolish all govern-
ment by the people who have made the Territory,
and have taken care of its interests for forty years.
The Governor’s message to the Legislature has
been commented upon in another column by Aunt
Ruth, with whose views upon the subject we per-
fectly agree.	
	PRES. M. ISABELLA HORNE returned on Satur-
day evening, Jan. 14, from a visit of about three
months to relatives and friends in California and
Arizona. While in Arizona she attended several
meetings of the Relief Society and other Associa-

[Column 2]
tions, and gives a good report of the labors of the
sisters in that Territory. Pres. Horne, is much
pleased to be at home again, though she enjoyed
and appreciated her visit. We expect she will
furnish us with some incidents of her journey for
the paper, and we feel sure the sisters here and in
other parts of the Territory and elsewhere, will be
gratified with an account of her trip West and
South.
	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D., who has been
absent from home seven months, returned on the
14th inst., having traveled from Pueblo in company
with Bro. and Sister Horne. Dr. Shipp spent the
first three months of her absence in New York,
and the remainder of the time in Philadelphia; in
the latter place she devoted her time and attention
to gaining special knowledge in improved methods
of surgery and hospital work, for which she had
excellent opportunity. Previous to leaving the
Medical College in Philadelphia, she was invited
to speak to the ladies there upon the subject of
"Mormonism,” which invitation she accepted,
and spoke to a large and intelligent audience. We
feel sure Dr. Shipp would arouse the interest of
her hearers and allay prejudice, if any existed, as
she has a modest, unassuming manner, a sweet
and pleasing address, and a sincerity and earnest-
ness which must impress an audience favorably
at least. Dr. Shipp returned home feeling well
and strong in the faith of the Gospel, rejoicing in
having opportunities of bearing testimony to the
truth. For the present her office will be at her
residence, No. 34, 7th East St.
	WE ought to have acknowledged, ere this the
circulars of the Brigham Young Academy, giving
“an insight into its numerous departments,” from
the Utah Enquirer, Jan. 3, 1888. It contains much
correct information of the modus operandi of this
noble institution, which has already accomplished
so much for the benefit of the young people of
Zion. Its Theology is strictly in conformity with
the principles of the Latter-day Saints and the
general organization of the Church. The instruc-
tion upon theological subjects “are classified ac-
cording to the Catechism, Bible, Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants and Compendium. There
is a complete domestic organization, which is
highly spoken of by the students, and must be
very satisfactory to parents. There are Primary,
Preparatory and Intermediate departments for the
practical training of pupils in all branches, with a
view to a higher course. Some of the special
branches are Physical Geography, Civil Govern-
ment, U.S. and General History. Drawing, Ladies
Work, Penmanship, Music, Language Course,
Business Course, Commercial Arithmetic, Com-
mercial Law, Assaying, Quantitative Analysis,
Biology, Zoology and Descriptive Astronomy.
Great attention is given to the Normal Depart-
ment of this Academy. The normal students are
divided into a senior and junior class, the whole
course covering a period of two years. There
is excellent opportunity given to this class of
students. This school should receive the influence
and patronage of the Latter-day Saints, as also
all schools of this character, if it is expected that
the children of Zion will fulfill the expectations of
the parents in the development of all that is
noblest, best, highest, purest and truest in the
various departments of learning, and remain stead-
fast in the things of the kingdom of God. Prof.
Karl G. Maeser has been untiring and unflinching
in the work he undertook in the establishment of
this most excellent enterprise. That he has not
always had the support necessary to perfect and
perpetuate the institution according to his ideas
and plan, has been very apparent, but from this
time we sincerely hope and trust there may be a
renewal of interest and effort combined, that will
build up more completely and foster this educa-
tional institution for the accomplishment of its
noble mission and the good of all Israel.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		TIMELY SUGGESTIONS.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	Now that “merry Christmas” has come and gone
and the New Year festivities are over and we are
left to sober reflection again, I will pen a few of
my thoughts upon current subjects; which, if you
think them worth while, you are at liberty to pub
lish.
	Christmas! Is not this festival over done by us
in many instances? Are not our Christmas gifts 
too often appreciated in proportion to their mone-
tary value, rather than their being simply the
souvenirs of true friendship or the tokens of a 
loving affection? In short, have we not become
mercenary to some extent in this particular? Is
not friendship and affection often lost sight of in
the strong desire to outdo another in giving some-
thing of greater value materially, thus pandering
to a depraved feeling? Have we not in many in-
stances become so lavish in our gifts to our child-
ren upon these occasions as to make the simple
presents from the Sabbath School very little
appreciated? I merely ask these questions, leav-
ing every person to answer as they see fit.
	New Year’s! A legal holiday,made so by statu-
tory enactment. A time when work is thrown
aside and we measurably abandon ourselves to
pleasure and enjoyment. According to an old
time American custom this was a call day rather
than a visiting one, when the “Happy New Year”
wish was reciprocated by old and young. The
old fashioned customs of this day have of late
years been sadly abused, their original simplicity,
heartiness and purity giving way to extravagance
and foolish etiquette and sometimes debauch.
	I was more than pleased to learn, that in the
principal city of Utah, where the custom of keep-
ing open house on that day had been growing very 
strong of late years, necessitating a notice in the
local papers of the names of those ladies who
would receive callers at the various houses, that
this year the custom was "more honored in the
breach than the observance." And for one I will
say, on all future New Year days, "So mote it be."
Let each succeeding Christmas day come round to
us with its merry making, its family reunions,
pleasures and enjoyment undisturbed. Let the
Old Year die peacefully and the New Year come
in with its bright hopes and joyful anticipations
unmarred, but in the midst of it all let us be con-
sistent, prudent and wise.
	Dancing! An exercise both enjoyable, health-
giving and strictly moral, when indulged in, in
moderation, at proper hours and with proper peo-
ple; but quite the reverse when associated with
late hours, immoderate indulgence and question-
able companions. In regard to round dancing, let
me say that the persistent demand for it seems 
strange to me, when the universal verdict of the
best men, the brightest minds and the highest
physiological and scientific talent is altogether
against it; while the spirit and teachings of many
of the leaders of Israel have proclaimed against
it. True, it is allowed to a limited extent, yet this
cannot be quoted in any degree as a proof of the 
propriety of the practice. Israel anciently desired
many things which were not good, some of which
were allowed by the Almighty, but always under
protest, and universally brought disaster upon the
people. 
	Our young sisters, if they would take the matter
of round dancing in hand, could, I am sure, settle
the question most effectually by simply refusing to
indulge in this kind of a dance under any circum-
stances. The only question with me is, although
so easy of solution, will they do it? In regard to
the persons who have a right to go forth in the
dance, President Young said, thirty years ago,
"That those individuals only who had kept their
covenants, and served God faithfully, and who
had refrained from wrong doing, should join in the
dance.” He also said, further, “That such people

[column 2]

were as well prepared for a prayer meeting imme-
diately after dancing as after any other exercise
or labor, for their hearts were pure before the
Lord.”
	The Governor's Message! What an amount of
(shall I say wilful) ignorance he displayed when
he attributed all the past mobbing, driving, plun-
dering and murdering of the Mormon people to
the Mormons themselves, and justified not only
the past, but the present crusade also. According
to his reasoning, because wicked men have in
every age of righteousness, abused and foully
murdered good and holy men, therefore the act is
justified in all future time. Popular clamor found
abundant cause against Jesus, but were these
people justified? But such assertions as the 
Governor made upon this point in his message are
altogether unworthy an argument. I would like
to have him to listen to scores of living witnesses
of unimpeachable veracity, who could tell such
tales of atrocities committed against the Latter-
day Saints that would harrow up the souls of the
most skeptical and bitterly prejudiced, if they
would but give attention to such recitals. But,
unfortunately for us, only very few of our Govern-
ors, or other Federal appointees have been dis-
posed to award to us any consideration whatever,
and I suppose we must be content to bide our time
until eternal justice shall proclaim for the right.
	The Mormon people the aggressors indeed?
Never! any further than the advocacy of true and
scriptural doctrines make them so; and who dare
interpret such moral suasion as dangerous either
to property, liberty or life. The lands the Mor-
mons occupied in Ohio, Missouri and Illinois, and
from which they were so ruthlessly driven, were
purchased and honestly paid for by the Mormon
people, and the titles held by the present occupants
are in the main invalid, and in many instances
are stained with Mormon blood. I know whereof
I speak. Had we, like ancient Israel, retaliated
upon our enemies and imbued our hands in their
blood, no matter how much soever we might have
been justified, we would not have been permitted
to build Temples to the name of the Lord. This
one reason alone should suffice to prove false the
statement that the Mormons are a bloodthirsty
people, for they are essentially Temple builders.
	King David, who never went to battle without 
the word of the Lord, and was consequently
justified in slaying the enemies of the people of
God, was nevertheless not permitted to build the
Temple in Jerusalem because he was a man of
blood. Therefore, his son Solomon was chosen
for this especial work.
	Legislation! I suppose Mormon women will
have to bide their time and wait patiently for a 
change in the national sentiment and the gallantry
of the so called “Lords of Creation,” if they have 
any left, to restore to us the franchise of which 
we have been so shamefully robbed, and those
other privileges and rights which belong to all
woman-kind. Well, we are used to waiting and
can trust the future most implicitly. 
	Y. L. M. I. Associations! The very first princi-
ple taught in them was "retrenchment." Would 
it not be well to go back to first principles again,
and advocate them with such zeal as to make their
power felt from one end of Zion to the other, for
many of our indulgences in foolish, and I may 
say, in some instances, wicked fashions, are cer-
tainly abominable in the sight of the Lord.
	Sickness! especially among the young, foremost
of which may be mentioned that dreadful scourge
diphtheria, at whose approach the stoutest hearts
quail, and which has made many homes desolate
indeed. Can nothing be done to stay the ravages
of this dread disease and other kindred ones? All
reliable medical men throughout the civilized
world acknowledge their utter inability to success-
fully grapple with what is termed diphtheria proper.
Quacks and upstarts advertise various "infallibl

[column 3]

remedies” therefor, and thousands are deceived
in this way.
	In view of these facts, my sisters, would it not
be well to turn to the Lord and fast and pray and
humble ourselves before Him, having first ob-
served closely the “word of wisdom” according to
the spirit and meaning thereof, that confidence in
our petitions may not be lacking, because we have
neglected to observe that which God has given
with a promise that “the destroying angel shall
pass by us,” for he is surely abroad in the land.
And the inhabitants of Zion will only escape as
the laws of Zion and the counsels of God are ob-
served by them.
	Let us, then, nurse our sick with all that dili-
gence which love and a pure affection will prompt,
exerting our skill to the utmost, at the same time
exercising strong faith in God and in the ordi-
nances of His house. Let neighbor join with
neighbor, if needs be, until we prevail; or should
our loved ones die, they will die unto God as the
revelation declares. Truly these are trying times,
but to falter in no woman’s trait in general, al-
though through lack of wisdom she may sometimes
fail. My sisters, it will require all the natural for-
titude and courage we possess, coupled with all
which we can gather from above to enable us to
endure and successfully pass through the fiery
trials of these last days.
	That God may assist us is the prayer of 
					 AUNT RUTH.


﻿BISHOP WHITNEY'S LECTURE.

	The initial lecture of the Twentieth Ward series,
under the auspices of the Improvement Associa-
tion of that Ward, "Tongues of the Times, and
what they tell us," was delivered Sunday evening
Jan. 15 in the Ward meeting-house.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney was the speaker, and his
address was listened to throughout by a large, at-
tentive and delighted congregation.
	Bishop Whitney opened his address by saying
that some tongues were audible while others were
silent, and showed how they might be audible to
some whose spiritual conditions were suitable,
while silent to others who lacked the preparation
to receive their warning. Some seemed to think 
that the scriptures were not at all adapted to the
present generation. The speaker stated that a-
truth uttered in any age was a part of the Gospel,
and would be found to cohere with all other
truths uttered before or subsequent to that time.
And whosoever read the revelations of God
given through any of His Prophets, would, if
possessed of the Holy Spirit, realize that they
spoke to him or her with oracular power.
	The speaker then related incidents which oc-
curred after the martyrdom of the Prophet
Joseph. Some knew that Brigham Young
was appointed leader of Israel. They
say that the mantle of the Prophet had
fallen on him. To them he spoke with Joseph's
voice. While others were in the dark, and the
tongues of the time were silent to them. God
had always raised up men suited to their times
to lead His people. Referred in a graphic manner
to the labors of President Joseph Smith and
Brigham Young, and the cares which the Church
in its infancy and childhood had entailed upon
those leaders. That during the exile of President
Taylor and others the Saints had been required
to think for themselves and assume more of the
responsibility of their course; and he likened the
experience of the Church in this regard to the
growth of a man, who, having discarded the
swaddling clothes of infancy, and put away the
pinafore of his childhood, began to use his rea-
soning faculties, and to exercise his more manly
powers in the spheres of usefulness. It was a
slothful servant who had to be commanded in all
things. Counsel should always be sought when


necessary, but some things might be known with-
out being repeatedly told.
	Bishop Whitney then compared the warnings
and fate of Jerusalem with the testimony uttered
by the tongues of to-day. His allusion to the
prediction of Jesus concerning that rebellious city
and the terrible fulfillment fifty years later, was
extremely touching. He bore a strong testimony
of the truth of the Gospel, and the near approach
of the consummation of all things. He condemned
the class distinctions, which too much prevailed
among the Saints, and showed that the work of
preparation for Christ's coming, was to bring
down the haughty and lift the lowly and oppressed.
He said that there would be a grand leveling of
mountains and raising of valleys, literally and
figuratively, before that day, for God would make
the crooked straight, and the rough places plain,
and deceit and hypocrisy would be done away.
In speaking of amusements, he said that recrea-
tion was necessary, and pleasure to a certain
extent proper; but this did not justify the Saints
in making pleasure the pursuit of life, instead of
a seasoning, as if their existence here were a huge
joke. And in closing, he exhorted all to solemnify
their thoughts, and to prepare themselves for the
times which had been predicted, and for partici-
pancy in the great blessings to be enjoyed, when
the millennial reign of Christ should commence
and the earth should rest a thousand years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	OBEDIENCE TO GOD'S COMMAND.

	It requires obedience to God's commands to be
a Latter-day Saint.

	I was asked this question. "What does it re-
quire to be a Latter-day Saint?" It was by one
who was not of our faith and principles. This
question awakened in mind a multitude of thoughts
and reflections and bade me to commit some of
them to paper. I feel that I am inadequate to
answer this question in the fullest sense and
meaning of the term. It is necessary that we,
as well as those who are not of us, should under-
stand the key word to eternal salvation, and this
is to obey the Gospel requirements. Without
which, they cannot enter the progressive, and we
cannot go on in progression as Latter-day Saints.
Christ laid down the law of salvation and was
obedient to it Himself, and requires obedience
from all creatures. Some may ask, what is the
law? It is written in plain and simple language
by Mathew, Mark, Luke, John, Paul and all the
former day Saints who did not get into the King-
dom only by baptism by one having authority.
John the baptist was a chosen one of the Lord.
The angel, Gabriel, came direct from the presence
of the Lord and told Elizabeth or Zacharias that
she should have a son in her old age and he should
be filled with the Holy Ghost and his name should
be John. And the father of this son of promise
prophesied of him, and said, St. Luke 1st chap.
76 verse, "And thou, child, shalt be called the
prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before
the face of the Lord to prepare His ways;" "To
give knowledge of salvation unto His people by
the remission of their sins." And the Angel
Gabriel said of John before he was born that he
should go before the Savior in the power and
spirit of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to
the children, to make ready a people prepared for
the Lord. And what did John do? Let us read
St. Mark, 1st chap. 4 verse. "John did baptise in
the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repent-
ance for the remission of sins." Jesus yielded
himself to baptism. Was baptised of John in
Jordan; afterward the Spirit of God rested upon
Him and the voice of his Father
said, He was well pleased in Him to
signify that He had done His Father's 
will in being baptised, He said, "He came not to
do His own will but His Father's;" and also said

[Column 2]
to His Disciples, "As my Father hath sent me,
even so send I you." Now, the Gospel plan of
salvation was from heaven, or why did the Savior
ask the question of the scribes?
"The baptism of John, was it from
heaven or of men?" And as the people believed
John to be a prophet the scribes did not deny that
it was not from heaven. The last chapters and
verses of Mathew and Mark tell all people what
to do. And Peter, Acts 38th chap. and 39th
verse. "Then Peter said unto them, repent and
be baptised every one of you in the name of
Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye
shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." "For
the promise is unto you, and to your children and
to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord
our God shall call," All people are now called
to repent, turn away from their sins and be bap-
tised for the remission of them, for the angel that
John the Revelator saw, has brought again the
everlasting Gospel to preach to every nation kin-
dred, tongue and people. Saying with a loud
voice, Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the
hour of His judgment is come," etc. Last chap.
of Revelation 12th verse. The word of the Savior
is, "And behold, I come quickly and my reward
is with me, to give every man according as his
work shall be." 15th chap. 4th verse. "Who
shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name?
for thou only art holy; for all nations shall come
and worship before thee; for thy judgments are
made manifest." "And I heard another voice
from heaven saying, come out of her my people
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye
receive not of her plagues." The Latter-day
Saints have gathered out from the world, that they
may learn more fully of the ways of the Lord and
walk in his paths. All these things it is
necessary to do, to be a Latter-day Saint. When
we have been obedient to all the ordinances of
the Gospel we then go on from knowledge to
knowledge until we become perfected in the truth
and have no doubt, knowing that we have kept
His commandments. For whosoever is born of
God overcometh the world and this is the victory,
even our faith. And it is the spirit that beareth
witness, because the spirit is truth. "For there 
are these that bear record in heaven, the Father,
the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three
are one" And there are three that bear witness 
in earth, the spirit, and the water, and the blood;
and these three agree in one."
	Now, if we are obedient to the word, "He that
believeth and is baptised shall be saved," and 
receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands
by men holding the authority. We have three
that bear witness in heaven. We have three
that bear witness on earth, the spirit, the water,
and blood. And these all agree in one. The
witness of our Heavenly Father is the greatest.
The Latter-day Saints have the knowledge of the
true Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
The only revealed religion existing on the earth;
they know the penalty of sin, and the joys and
happiness of a pure life, and like former-day
Saints count all things else as dross, compared
to the eternal riches of an endless life in the man-
sions prepared for those who love and serve Him
faithfully to the end. A Latter-day Saint when
first initiated into the Kingdom of God becomes
as a little child and receives nourishment from the 
Holy Sprit, which leads and guides into all truth.
If they forsake the world and all its pride and
allurements the Holy Ghost takes up its abode
with them, to usher them into a new life; their souls
are filled with peace and joy, they have found the
pearl of great price the truth, the gem of revela-
tion, they are satisfied, and have confidence to
seek at the throne or grace for light and knowledge
that they may grow in grace and in the mysteries
of the things of God, and under these conditions
we must be as perfect as we know how, according
to the knowledge we possess. I have lightly

[Column 3]
touched on what it requires to be a Latter-day
Saint. 
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 12, 1887


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	On Wednesday, the 28th of December, Brother
and Sister Mifflin Palmer, of the Eighth
Ward of this city, celebrated their Golden Wed-
ding. The couple are both past the age of three
score and ten, and are natives of Chester County,
Pennsylvania, where they were married fifty years
ago, by the Rev. Mr. Miles.
	Mr. and Mrs. Palmer have had eight children,
six of whom are living, thirty-one grandchildren,
six of whom are dead, and they have one great-
grandchild. They are the parents of the wife of
Bishop Bringhurst of Toquerville, the wife of
Bishop John C. Sharp, of Vernon, Mrs. Edwin
Frost, of this city; and of Bro. A. M. Palmer of
Taylorsville.
	About forty persons spent the evening in feast-
ing, speech making, singing, chatting, reciting etc.
During the evening the wife of fifty years exhibited
her wedding dress and veil to the company who
had assembled to do them honor. The father
was presented by the children with a gold-headed
cane, and the mother with a handsome gold ring;
they also received many tokens of love and esteem
from their children and grandchildren, and other
relatives in the East and from friends here in
Utah.
	We join with the many friends of Brother and
Sister Palmer in sincere congratulations, and wish
that their lives may be lengthened out according
to their desires, and that they may enjoy the de-
clining years of their life here together in love and
harmony in the future as in the past.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		PRICE, EMERY CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are doing the best we can in our scat-
tered condition in behalf of the Relief Society
here at Price. We have a good band of sis-
ters here who are working unitedly under the
directions of our worthy President, Sister Cox.
Our Relief Society has been organized two
years.
	On the 17th of November, being our Presi-
dent’s birthday, the sisters all gathered for
meeting and brought with them a selection of
dainties. The tables were spread and every-
thing in readiness for a surprise. When she
came we had a very enjoyable time.
	Sister Sarah L. Cox then gave a short
sketch of her life and showed in many ways
how she had been protected by the hand of
Providence which was very interesting.
	Others of the sisters spoke a short time in
behalf ot Sister Cox’s diligence. Sister Cox
selected a hymn, “’Mid scenes of confusion,"
etc. She was then given some very nice presents,
and adjourned to meet in the evening, which
we enjoyed, and all went home feeling we had
had a good time. 
		Your sister in the Gospel,
		MARIAH BRYNER, Assistant Sec.

		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake was held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, in this city, Thursday, Dec.
8, 1887, Counselor Elmina S. Taylor presiding.
On the stand and platform were Sisters Rachel
R. Grant, Sarah M. Kimball, Rebecca Jones,
Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Presendia L. Kimball, Minerva W. Snow, the
Secretary, Elizabeth Howard, and presidents of
of branches of the R. S. in the Stake. After


singing, prayer was offered by Sister Zina.
Continued by singing.  Secretary called the
roll; 20 presidents, 6 counselors and 1 teacher
responded.  Minutes of previous conference
were read and accepted.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor made brief remarks, al-
luding feelingly to the recent death of the
President of the Relief Society, Sister Eliza
R. S. Smith, and praying for an outpouring of
the Holy Spirit.
	First Ward represented by Pres. M. Steele;
Second Ward, Coun. S. McGregor; Third
Ward, Coun. F. Smith; Fifth Ward, Pres. Ann
Brimley; Sixth Ward, Pres. S. Fulmer; Seventh
Ward, Pres. M. A. Lambert; Eighth Ward,
Pres. E. Fletcher; Ninth Ward, Pres. S. Groo;
Eleventh Ward, Pres. M. McMaster, Twelfth
Ward, Pres. J. Druce; Thirteenth Ward,Coun.
L. A. Wells; Fourteenth Ward, Coun. M. W.
Wilcox; Fifteenth Ward, Coun. R. Jones.
	Remarks suitable to the occasion and in ap-
preciation of Sister E. R. S. Smith, were made
by Sisters Zina D. H. Young, Presendia L.
Kimball and Minerva W. Snow. These sisters
also urged the necessity of union and confidence
in each other, and exhorted all to earnestly en-
deavor to live near the Lord and be guided by
His Spirit.  Conference adjourned with singing
and benediction.
	Afternoon session: Opened as usual, and the
Seventeenth Ward report was given by Pres.
B. W. Smith; Sixteenth Ward, Secretary Sarah
Cumberland; Eighteenth Ward, Sister M. W.
Snow; Nineteenth Ward, Pres. Rachel Whipple;
Twentieth Ward, by a sister who had been re-
quested by the President to report; Sugar
House Ward, Pres. S. B. Gibson; Big Cotton-
wood, Pres. E. Stevenson; Union, by the Trea-
surer, M. Brady; Draper, Pres. C. Smith;
Granite, Pres. Ruth Despain; Mountain Dell,
Pres. Dixon; Sandy, by one of the Counselors;
West Jordan, Sister Cutler; North Jordan, Sis-
ter Webster; Granger, Pres. M. E. Porter;
Brighton, Pres. M. A. Hazon.
	After these verbal reports had been given,
very excellent instructions were given and testi-
monies were borne by Sister R. R. Grant, B.
W. Smith, H. M. Whitney, R. B. Pratt, M. D.,
Mary S. Clark of Farmington, and also Sisters
S. M. Kimball and E. Howard.  Their teach-
ings embraced a variety of subjects; among the
most important were remarks upon obedience,
the word of wisdom and the training of the
young people in the ways of the Lord.
	Pres. Angus M. Cannon read a letter from
Pres. Woodruff, in which some instructions were
given concerning certain ordinances and cere-
monies for the sick, and he also made instruc-
tive remarks.
	Sister Zina spoke of the words of the Prophet
Joseph concerning the afflicted and the sick,
and felt wisdom and the Spirit of God were
necessary, that there might be joy and satisfac-
tion in these labors.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor made some appropriate
closing remarks; felt satisfied with the confer-
ence.  Adjourned for three months, with sing-
ing, and the benediction was pronounced by
Sister Presendia L. Kimball.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	(Synopsis of minutes of the sisters’ meeting,
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Jan.
14, 1888, Coun. Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Opened by singing. Prayer by Sister E. B.
Wells.) Continued by singing.  Minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted. Minutes
of the Primary Association of the 20th Ward
were read by the Secretary.
	Opening remarks were made by Coun.
Young, who was very happy to be with the sis-
ters there again. Spoke upon faith; believed
that through the power of God some of the

[Column Two]

trials of the Saints would be averted; and said
many good things.
	Coun. E. Howard wished all a happy new
year; thought we should all try and understand
the position we are now placed in. Hoped the
sisters would pray for the members of the
Legislature, that they might have wisdom from
above, and pray for the heads of this nation
assembled in Congress, that their hearts be
softened. “ ‘God moves in a mysterious way
His wonders to perform.’ Let us renew our
diligence, and whatever transpires let us be
faithful.” Gave good counsel to the mothers,
and urged union and love towards one another.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, in her remarks said the
greatest gift God can bestow is for us to under-
stand the whisperings of the still small voice;
thought we erred many times in not obeying
this voice. “This is a day when we should
know how to live our religion;” said many
other interesting things. 
	Sister E. B. Wells testified to the truth of
Sister Freeze’s remarks; urged the sisters to
seek for an increase of faith, even mighty faith,
that our sick might be healed; thought we
should be cautious and wise in all things.
Spoke of having traveled among the sisters in
other stakes, and found them diligent and
faithful; had recently visited Sanpete County,
and had enjoyed it very much. Spoke of the
testimonies she had heard there from the
young sisters; referred to the Manti Temple, its
beauty and grandeur, and the work to be done
for the living and the dead; believed our
Father in Heaven was rich, and would not
only reward His faithful children liberally, but
give them good gifts.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball had been much inter-
ested in the remarks upon the cultivation of
the Holy Ghost, and it is one of the highest
faculties to learn to commune with the Holy
Ghost; also said if we transgress a law of our
being, we are doing wrong. We should reflect
upon these things, etc.
	Coun. B. W. Smith believed our prayers
would be heard, and that something would
come along to produce a change in our favor.
“God will look after His people. The chains
that will bind Satan will be our own good acts,
our becoming pure aud holy before God.”
	Sister Norman said, “The gift of the Holy
Ghost brings things past and present to our
minds. Get wisdom and understanding, then
we can drink of the bitter cup.” Prayed
that God would put hooks into the jaws of
those who are trying to make laws against this
people, etc.
	Sister Mary Grey bore a faithful testimony
to the truth; also Sister Leaker and Sister
Mary Silver and Sister Brown.
	(Coun. S. M. Kimball made some brief re-
marks, and burst forth in the gift of tongues,
which seemed to thrill the congregation. In-
terpretation given by “Sister Zina.” Sister
Dyer also bore a strong testimony to the truth,
and spoke in tongues. Interpretation given.
Sister May, recently from Scotland, said a few
words, and the spirit of tongues resting upon
her, she spoke with much power. The inter-
pretation was given.
	Coun. Z. D. Young made a few closing re-
marks, and the meeting was adjourned for two
weeks. Singing. Benediction was pronounced
by Coun. B. W. Smith.)
					JANE SMELLIE, Sec.


BOOK NOTICES.
  "The Rose of Deseret" is the significent
title of a neat little volume of poetry and prose
issued recently by Sister Emily B. Spencer, of
St. George. She is not unknown to the public
as a writer, this being her second book. The
first one was published about six years ago. In


our opinion this book is superior to the first.
It is printed on very good paper in clear type,
and contains in all one hundred pages. There
is a dictionary of names of men and women
with the meaning and derivation of the same,
which will be useful for reference. The price
of the book is 50 cts; for sale at the Juvenile
Instructor Office, where it was printed. 
	Sister Spencer has arranged the contents
nicely, and there are some very excellent
thoughts and truths, clothed in purity, sim-
plicity and sweetness  Some of the subjects
she has chosen are quite pathetic, well written,
and also true; for instance, "The Lost Child,"
"The Martyrs," "A Heroine of the Batalion,"
and others. The poems which seemed to us
most musical were, "The Rose of Deseret" and
"Wildwood Flowers."
	We have not space to mention more, but can
safely recommend the work to the sisters, and
trust they will purchase such books as are
written by the women of Zion, in preference to 
the floating trash, undeserving the name of
literature, that very often has only its "being so
cheap" as its recommendation.

	"Goodholmes Domestic Cyclopedia of Prac-
tical Information, Illustrated," has been some-
time in our possession, and we have found it
very useful for reference. It is really a family
book, and deserves a place in every household. 
The work is alphabetically arranged, and it is
so simple in manner of giving headings, etc., 
that one cannot fail to find without delay the
desired information. There are recipes for
cooking sufficient for any housekeeper; also for
preserving, making wines from fruits, vinegar,
pickles of very many kinds, and bills of fare
for dinner-parties, lunches, teas and various en-
tertainments. There are articles on bathiug,
drainage, exercise, house ventilation, diet for
invalids, warming water and other hygienic
subjects, which would be very useful in the
home; and also upon the care of infants and 
children, the sick room, nursing and wet nurs-
ing, fevers and other diseases. Special emer-
gencies in cases of accidents and things of that
kind are ably treated upon. The list of ingre-
dients needed "has been prefixed to each recipe,
to save the necessity of reading all the direc-
tions before knowing if the ingredients are
within reach, and to lessen the danger of over-
looking any in getting them together." Many 
of the illustrations are original, others collected
from various sources. The principal appro-
priation has been made by arrangement with
English publishers from the great cook-book
of Miss Acton. 
	After a careful examination of this cyclo-
pedia, we feel justified in recommending it to
the public, and think it the best work of the
kind that we have ever seen. It contains 600
pages of printed matter, and 25 ruled pages,
blank, for written recipes. The index covers
over 20 pages. The book is well bound, paper
an excellent quality. For sale at James Dwyer's 
book store.


OUR BONDAGE.
       BY FRANCES E. WILLARD.

  I wonder how many women go  back in
thought, as I do at this weary hour, to the
time when they first lost their liberty? I ought
to be thankful, doubtless, for mine lasted longer
than that of most. During sixteen blessed
years I had feet uncramped, limbs unfettered,
trunk unbandaged, hair untwisted, and, largely
as a consequence, spirit blithe as a singing sky-
lark.  Living in the country, and in much 
isolation, my dear mother permitted to her
daughters the almost unexampled bliss of free-
dom in both body and mind. There was no 
hill too high to climb, and no tree for that


matter; no valley too deep to explore, no brook
to wet to wade. Out-door air, simple food,
eight hours sleep every twenty-four—all these
beatitudes were ours.
	But there came a day—alas! the dark day
of my youth—on which I was as literally 
caught out of the fields and pastures as was 
ever a young colt; confronted by a long dress
that had been made for me, corsets and high-
heeled shoes that had been bought, hair-pins
and ribbons for my straying locks, and I was
told that it simply “wouldn’t answer” to “run
wild” another day. Company from the city
was expected; I must be made presentable; I
“had got to look like other folks.”
	That was a long time ago, but I have never
known a single physically reasonable day since
that sweet May morning, when I cried in vain
for longer lease of liberty. Those "adorn-
ments”—the inquisition of fashion—changed
my outlook on the world. A caged bird be-
came my fitting emblem. Of a shy, sensitive
nature, I yielded at once to the inevitable. But
my high heels threw me out of poise, and I
wouldn’t try to walk more than was necessary
in the clinging folds of that long, tight-fitting
gown. Hence I ceased to be a denizen of God’s
beautiful out-doors; was a rambler and a 
climber no more, but gave myself to books,
and have remained in my cage—the house—
right on through the years. After my long
day’s work with the pen, I say to myself so 
often, “If I could put on a hat, button a coat 
around me, and step off freely, how delightful 
a walk would be.” But no; there are intricate
preliminaries before a woman can do anything
so simple as to take a constitutional. In my
own case, the easy wrapper that I wear at my
work, with its long, heavy skirt, must be
changed for a street-dress; the slippers for shoes
to be buttoned up; a bonnet, affording no pro-
tection from light, wind, or observation, must 
be "tastefully” put on; tight-fitting gloves
drawn to their places, and then only, with
skirts to be lifted at every step until one’s knees
grow weary, the airing may begin. A man
would have two things to do—put on a coat
and crowd a hat over his eyes; a woman has
three articles to take off (wrapper and slippers),
dress to draw on, collar and cuffs to adjust and
pin, shoes to button, wrap to fasten, bonnet to
tie, and then all their burdens and constrictions
to endure. 
	So, for the thousandth time, I return to my
room, actually too tired to “get ready,” and
then get over the ground,” though Lake
Michigan’s splendid expanse stretches away to
the east, and there are lovely groves, cool,
shady nooks, and tempting by-ways all about
me. Much I muse why these things are, and
clearer grows the conviction that woman will
never be a rational citizen of the world while 
these things are. I recognize joyfully the pro-
gress we have made since I was a student at
Milwaukee, in 1857, when no girl was really
“stylish” who wore less than eight white skirts
trailing on the ground after her; but how slowly 
we move when women of refinement will wear 
bustles, lace themselves as of old, pinch hands
and feet, bare their heads to the blast that their 
tufts of bonnets may be “like the rest,” and
simper their criticisms on “dress reform.” Near
me on the walls of my study hang Annie
Jenness Miller’s picture and engravings of her
new costumes. I look up at them with a 
prayerful heart, saying, “How long, O Lord,
how long?” 	
	Instead of the walk I would like to take,
had I the old-time conditions—the modest,
simple, short dress, loose jacket, and broad-
brimmed hat of auld lang-syne—I pen this
jeremiade, and bid God-speed to the earnest-
hearted woman who, in roaring Gotham, plans
for us women a costume that hints at better
days.

[Column Two]

	Several years ago three Russian lady doctors
started, at Tashkend, a consulting hospital for
Mussulman women. From the beginning the
experiment proved a success and the popularity
of the hospital has been increasing ever since.
During the last twelve months fifteen thousand
consultations have been given.—Ex.
	Mrs. Gladstone, writing a prefatory note for
“Women Workers in the Liberal Cause,” says:
“We cannot recognize too clearly the crying
need of education and combined effort among
women. A great cause such as that which
now lies nearest to our hearts, the cause of Ire-
land, should arouse in us a passionate desire
for thorough and accurate knowledge of its
history. Strange that this should have been
so much overlooked.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	DIED, in Meadow, Millard Co., Dec. 18th, 1887, Samuel
Adams, from old age, being eighty-two years of age last
August. He was born August, 1805, at Badderly Edge,
Staffordshire, England; baptized July 28, 1841; emigrated,
and landed at Castle Garden, New York, June 20, 1860;
came to Utah in 1861; came to Meadow, Millard Co., 1870.
Although Father Adams had been lame and blind for a 
number of years, he managed, with the assistance of his
son Hyrum, to go to the St. George Temple, and finished 
all the work he could do there. Will not this stimulate
others to do likewise? He leaves a number of children
and grandchildren and many friends. He died as he had 
lived, a good Latter-day Saint.
										COM.


IN MEMORIAM.
	
	In affectionate remembrance of Sinah Pugh Bishop, who 
departed this life at her home in in the 16th Ward, Salt
Lake City, after a short illness of paralysis, Dec. 24th,
1887. She was born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, England
Dec. 14th, 1831, and embraced the Gospel at the age of
sixteen, and was valiant in defending the truth delivering
tracts from house to house. Came to Utah in 1855, and
was married to James Bishop the same year, by whom she
had four sons and five daughters; two daughters only sur-
vive her.
	She was a faithful teacher in the Relief Society; also a
teacher in the Sunday School, and was Connselor to the
President of the Primary Association, and had won the
love of the little ones. She was a firm believer in all the
principles of the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and never lost an opportunity of bearing testimony
to the same, exhorting her sisters at all times to be faithful
and true. She rejoiced in and enjoyed to a great extent
the gifts of the Gospel, causing the hearts of her sisters to
rejoice in their meetings, and was faithful to every trust;
she was untiring in her attendance upon the sick, day and
night, comforting the hearts of all wherever she went, with
kind words and acts and wise counsel.
	And we, the sisters of the Relief Society, through the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, wish to tender our heart-felt sym-
pathy to the family bereaved, presenting them with a copy 
and placing a copy on our records.
	And while we mourn our loss, we desire to acknowledge
the hand of God, knowing that our loss is her gain, for she
has gone to  mingle with her loved ones. May we profit
by her good example, and be as ready when called, and
worthy to meet her.
						DIANA REID, Prest.
						SARAH CUMBERLAND, Sec.

		"Leaves have their time to fall,
			And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
		And stars to set—but all,
			Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death!
		We know when moons shall wane,
			When summer birds from far shall cross the sea.
		When Autumn's hue shall tinge the golden grain,
			But who shall teach us when to look for thee?"

	DIED, in the 17th Ward, Salt Lake City, Dec. 1st, 1887,
of diphtheria, Mary Lillias, daughter of James S. and 
Elizabeth Brown, born January 8th, 1874, and was therefore
aged 13 years, 10 months and 23 days.
	Lillias was a bright and sweet girl, who endeared herself 
to all who knew her, by her dutiful and obedient spirit. 

[Column 2]
Being her Sunday School teacher for about two years, I
learned to love and appreciate this noble spirit. She was
always attentive, and endeavored to store up the knowledge
gained in the Sabbath School; kind and attentive, consider-
ate to her classmates, and always gentle and thoughtful of
me.
	She made great sacrifices to attend Sunday School, hav-
ing so many little brothers and sisters who claimed so much
of her attention and care, yet she worked hard and late
Saturday night, that she and they might be ready for Sun-
day School. She only missed one Sunday during the year
in attendance until the time of her death, and then she
was very sick.	
	Supt. Beattie requested her to learn the ten commandments
the last Sabbath she was at school; her mother says she
began to learn them as soon as she got home, such was her
anxiety to do as required and her eagerness to gain knowl-
edge; she learned them and repeated them to her mother
on her death bed.
	I shall miss Lillias from my little class, and her vacant
seat will make me feel sad, but I know she has gone to a
better world, where sorrow and death can never enter, and
God is the Father of all. To her parents her loss is irrepar-
able, but may He who heals the breaking heart and dries
the mourner’s tear sustain them through this great bereave-
ment.
	"The loved and lost! they are within the door,
		That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing,
	With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
	In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
		And God Himself their Lord and Judge and King;
	And we must do the work that they laid down,
		Take up the song where they broke off the strain.
	So, journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
	Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
		And our lost loved ones will be found again."
								FLORENCE ALDER.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS, GAS, WATER, &  STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT  LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES,EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
		And an elegant assortment of 
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and  In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	  The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 16.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1888. 			No. 17.


﻿ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
Eternity's broad space now opes to give,
	Loved one to thee, thy place and honor due;
Into that realm for which thou e’er didst live;
	Zion’s great leaders usher thee anew.
	And angel records show thy works all true!

Rich in those gifts which hold sublimest worth,
	So wast thou formed; thy wealth thou didst increase,
Nor lost one gem, nor caught one taint from earth;
	Onward, thy passport leads, to glorious peace,
	Where love and joy and good works never cease.

Shall we, who loved thee here, e’er love thee less?
	Mother and friend, and sister choice and rare!
Israel’s first songstress, Zion’s poetess!
	Thou answerest—"Follow on—My glories share;
	Heaven hath room for all—Oh, join me there!”
										LULA.
December, 1887.


MEMORIES.

		When work is done,
The dreary monotone of each long day
Is past, and lamplight casts its sickly ray
	 	O’er my lone room,

		With hand-propped head 
I sit and gaze within the dim recess 
Of an old desk; and gazing thus, I bless
		The treasures there.

		My dreaming eyes
Behold the tracings of a writing quaint
On scrolls about whose folds a perfume faint
		Doth linger still—

		The working hands,
Now coldly locked in Death's chill clasp,
That once response had given to my warm grasp
		And cheered my soul—

		Outpourings they
Of a young soul as pure as light,
That lov’d me well, but took an earthly flight
		To Heav'n’s bright shrine:

		And visions come	
Before my strained tear-dimmed sight
And bring again that face so fair and bright
		That once was mine.

		O wells of light—
Those eyes where love and mirth combine—
Loved hair, that clusters like a clinging vine
		Upon that brow !

		O sunset flush
Of those soft, tender lineless cheeks!
Of laughing mouth, that surely to me speaks
		And bids me smile !

		O impulse wild,
That makes me try to meet it with a kiss
And thus dispels the vision and the bliss,
		Of my fond dream !

		How fast they fade!
Eyes, cheek, lips—all are fled
Of that dear face, and in their radiant stead
		Are relics pale.

		One tress have I
Of that abundant, softly-curling hair,
A score of letters and a rose once fair,
		Now scentless, dry,

		I bow my head,
And tears fall on that withered spray,
Where once the morning dewdrops brightly lay,
		In vain regret.
								GIPSEY.


LETTER.
		MARION, Cassia Co., Idaho,
					January 16, 1888.

MY DARLING LULA:
	Your holiday letter, with kind tokens of re-
membrance, was thankfully received. It is
sweet to be tenderly and thoughtfully remem-
bered by those we love. Especially do I regard
the affection of my dear children as precious
beyond measure. And that they love and fear
the Lord is a most comforting thought to
me. 
	Yesterday, I believe, was about as cold a day
as I ever experienced. I could not keep warm
close to the fire with all the wraps I could get
on. To day is not quite so cold. So far, this
winter, my health has been very good for me.
	The news of the death of our beloved Presi-
dent, Sister E. R. S. Smith, was quite a shock
to me, notwithstanding her advanced age and
the fact that her health had been delicate so
much of the time during the past year. It
seems lonely to think that she has really passed
beyond this vail of mortality, and that we shall
see her no more this side. How many of our
loved ones have departed, and how little we
know who, or how many, may be called hence
in the year just opening. It surely stands us
all in hand to be ready at any time. 	
	Reading in the Deseret News of the awful
depravity of some of the young boys in your
city, makes me fairly shudder. Oh! my
daughter, let nothing hinder your at-
tention to your little boys. Do not forget that
now, while they are so young and close around
you, is the time to impress them with all good
and noble sentiments and desires; the value of
truth, honesty and virtue, the importance of
being industrious, prayerful and generous, and
all these beautiful qualities which combine to
make up a pure and excellent character.
	If parents would only put these matters in
their proper place, far ahead of gaining
worldly wealth and all things that perish with
the using, would so many reckless young peo-
ple be found in Zion? It seems to me there
would not.True, even then some might go astray,
but I think not so many.
	I came across one of your old poems among
my letters the other day, which I will send you,
as I do not think you kept a copy of it. It has
no title. Here it is:
		"Truth will triumph I never fear,
			Ye who battle for the right;
		Be in earnest, be sincere,
			Pray and work with all your might.

		Should you once mistake your part,
			Humbly bear all just reproof;
		Cleanse and purify your heart,
			From all baseness stand aloof.

		Help your brother on the road,
			Think not of yourself alone;
		Aid him with his heavy load,
			Guard his honor as your own.

		Be prepared for deadly strife.
			Virtue to the death defend!
		Thy reward eternal life—
			Truth will triumph in the end!"

	When you see Sisters Presendia and Zina re-
member me to them with much love; also all the
other dear sisters who are laboring for the wel-

[Column 2]
fare of the work of God. Tell Sister Wells
that I very much appreciate the EXPONENT,
and ask her to please change my address to
Marion.
	With fervent prayers for you all, I remain,
			Your loving mother,
						S. K. GREENE.


ITEMS FROM ARIZONA.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Once more I have taken up my pen to give
your readers a few items from this far off place.
The pleasant weather of autumn is past, and
winter, grim and cold, is with us, and it has
been bitter cold for this usually mild climate.
The merry holidays are gone again, and little
folks started to school. We are so far from
friends and relatives, and yet dear old Santa
Claus has remembered us, and if his gifts were
small, they filled many a little heart with joy
and gratitude. The precious letters he brought,
all full of comfort and cheer, did so much to-
ward lifting us above "life's dreary cares;" such
letters are like the visitations of angels to me.
	Our numbers are so few here at the present
time, that our usual sisters' meetings have not
been held. Our Primary has lately been
organized, and we hope the others will soon be
in order again; but as there is seldom more than
three or four sisters here at a time, little can
be accomplished. I believe all are interested
deeply in such organizations, and will most
gladly hail the day when our numbers will
give promise of success in this direction.
	Our Indian neighbors are still quite friendly;
I had hoped, ere this, to have gleaned some-
thing which I could feel would be of interest
to your many readers about this people called
Navajoes, though it may not be out of place to
mention some of their strange customs.
	From a missionary I learned that a son-in-
law and mother never look at each other after
his marriage to her daughter, lest he or she
should immediately be struck with blindness.
It is said the mother may still cling to the
daughter with the same devotion as previous
to her marriage, and live for years almost with
her, and yet with this strange idea, she will not
even dare to let her eyes turn for a moment on
the husband of her child, nor will he presume
to glance at her. They are a very superstitious
people in every way, and when any are sick it
is often thought that an enemy has caused it
by casting some evil spell on the afflicted one.
Then they have their great "medicine men," to
whom they give all their houses and sheep fre-
quently, with the hope of having this dreaded
spell broken. Those who have learned some
of the beautiful truths which the Gospel teaches
are full of faith and have perfect confidence
that their sick will be healed through the ad-
ministration by the Elders of the Church, and
where this implicit faith is continued, the bless-
ing, and often the entire healing, is realized.
Our brethren have endeavored to convince
them that it is not the power of man that
brings about this cure, but it is to God, their
Heavenly Father, whom their praise and
thanks are due. They will often come with a
sick babe and ask for a little oil to rub on some
afflicted part, saying they know it will make it
well at once. There have been some very re-
markable cases of healing, and this has a ten-
dency to increase their faith.
	(Not many months ago an old chief's daughter


was taken ill so suddenly that her friends feared
she would die before relief could be found.
Her father was then living about two or three
miles from a little settlement of the Saints in
Arizona; she requested her father to go at once
and bring some of the brethren, that they
might make her well.  He came at once, beg-
ging for them to make haste, saying his child
must die if they did not come.  They found
her quite as ill as represented, and administered
with the desired effect.  This was early Sunday
morning, and at two o'clock the same day the
whole party, including the girl who had been
sick, rode down horseback to attend the meet-
ing, all rejoicing in the blessings they had re-
ceived.
	When we first came to this country, some
ten years ago, we became acquainted with an
Indian who had been several years before
shot, and the ball was still remaining in his leg.
He was a great sufferer, and had become re-
duced to a perfect skeleton.  His family had
had large flocks of sheep and many horses all
of which had been spent during the years of
his sickness, and still no relief came.  He had
heard the Gospel and been baptized about a
year previous to our arrival but through the 
influence of his many friends and their old
traditions, still clung to their foolish notions
doctoring their sick, but when everything was
exhausted and he was still a hopeless cripple
suffering at times intensely, he became willing
to trust himself entirely in the hands of the
brethren and do as they advised.  They found
a kind sister, who was a good nurse and full
of faith, and with the free use of oil and some
mild poultice, and keeping the wound
thoroughly cleansed, the ball was soon removed
and he was gradually restored to almost perfect
health, and when I met him a few years after
I was astonished and could not recognize him
as the poor wretched being I had first known.
	It is quite a curiosity to see the women at
work weaving some of the pretty blankets they
make.  White women would scorn to use such
a rude loom and the many little bits of wood
with the fancy colored yarn wound on them.
The designs are very pretty and so evenly ar-
ranged it seems almost incredible that such
work can be done with so little to work with.
As among all uncivilized races, the women do
most of the hard work.
	The husband and wife keep their property
separate, and in all their buying and selling
each attends to his or her business independent
of the other, and at the death of either party,
the brothers and sisters claim the property, not
the husband, children or wife, as the case may
be.  When the young man is desiring to marry,
he must show that he has something to give
for his bride, for a mother never allows her
daughter to be taken without a certain amount
of horses given in return, and if the young
woman is not pleased with her newly found
husband she can desert him at once, but he
cannot recover any of the means given in ex-
change; but, if she ever marries again,  her
mother will exact a smaller amount than at
first demanded.
	Well, I have written more than I at first in-
tended, but trust it will not be out of place.
Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I remain,
			Your sister,
				MARY S. BURNHAM.
San Juan, N. M., Jan. 10, 1888.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   DEAR SISTER WELLS:—In reading down the
columns of the EXPONENT, I often wonder
why there is nothing said about Plain City?
We have been noticed throughout the country
for our fine fruits and vegetables, and our 
pleasant location.


We have been organized in a Relief Society
twenty years; myself, with many others, have
plodded along, meeting with many scenes of
pleasure, and some not so pleasant.  We have
had the counsels of our late President, L. W.
Shurtliff, and not only his counsels, but his
presence at our meetings; also that of his Coun
selors.  His fatherly care and teachings are
not forgotten, and while we appreciate his
counsels, we do not forget those of our present
Bishop, Geo. W. Bramwell; although his time
seems more taken up with other duties, yet we
feel we have his support.  Our President,Sister
Almira Raymond, received her appointment as
President of the Relief Society in its first or-
ganization, and is still firm in her trust, backed
by her Counselors, and the sisters and teachers; 
yet with all, she has a variety of feelings and 
minds to please.  I am, however, thankful to
say she is endeavoring to do her duty in a mild
and gentle manner.
	Sister Raymond is a noble-minded woman,
and her desires are to teach others nobility of
character, and to emulate the examples of the 
noble and virtuous.  We are not alone in the
enterprise of human intelligence in this place,
for we have the Young Ladies' Association,
guided by a very noble woman, Sister Jane
Thomas, with her Counselors.  They hold their
meetings every week, and are in a healthy con-
dition.  We have also the Primary, and their 
President, Sister Susannah Robinson, with her
germs of man and womanhood, endeavoring to
train them in the paths of loveliness and virtue.
She merits great praise for her labors
	We are now through with the holidays, and
are taking up our knitting and domestic labors
as usual, and sitting down to a quiet life again.
We number over one hundred in our Society,
and have an average attendance at our meeting
of about thirty.  Oh, by the bye, I had almost
forgotten to mention, we are talking of having a
party to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of
our organization, and if we have the party, we
shall have to unite with our boys—whom we
have lived with for the last half century or
more—to help us out with the programme, as
we cannot well do without them.
	Dear Editor, I am something like Blenda
Bluegrass, it is getting so near dinner time I
must stop writing for the present, remaining,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						ANNIE NEAL.
Plain City, Jan. 27, 1888.


CONJOINT MEETING AND PARTY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The two branches of the Relief Society of
this city met conjointly in the Society Hall,
Thursday, Jan. 5, 1888, to celebrate their first
anniversary, being one year since the division
of the former Society.  The Secretaries read
an account of the receipts and disbursements
of their respective wards; also the means re-
maining in the treasuries, which show these
organizations to be in a thrifty, prosperous
condition.
	Encouraging and appreciative remarks were
made by Prest R. W. Tyler, Stake Prest. L.
Houd, Stake Counselors E. J. Bennet and
Laura Skinner, Bishops C. D. White and J. H.
Smith, Counselors Thos. Parkinson and Wm. 
Robinson, and Patriarch D. Tyler.
	A picnic party was also given in the evening
in the People's Hall, for the members, which 
was a very enjoyable affair.  The pleasant
countenances and cheerful voices of those pres-
ent betokened that all were enjoying themselves
to their utmost capacity.  An occasional speech,
song, essay and recitation intermixed with the
dancing was duly appreciated.  We would 
make special mention of the essay by Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth, which showed the 
lady to be highly gifted in the line of composi-


tion.  Bro. Hill, photographer, rendered a
recitation from the writings of our highly
esteemed and departed sister, E. R. Snow Smith,
in a very creditable manner.
	After participating in the dance until all 
were satisfied, the party was dismissed (as it
had been opened), by prayer, when all dis-
persed to their homes, feeling that this had
truly been a happy reunion.
	Notwithstanding the weather was very cold
and blustering, there was a very creditable
attendance, both at the meeting in the afternoon
and the party in the evening.
					ALICE M. TANNER
			Sec. First Ward Relief Society.
	Beaver City, U. T., Jan. 17, 1888.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher has given the
Soldiers’ Home at Leavenworth 2,000 books
from her husband's library.
	Mme. Janauschek, the actress, has been
awarded $12,000 damages for injuries received
by falling down stairs last year at an hotel in 
Newport, R I., which compelled her to cancel
all her engagements and disband her company.
The corridor of the hotel, it seems, was not
lighted, and Mme. Janauschek fell to the bot-
tom of the stairway and broke her right
wrist.
	Mrs. Eliza Garfield, the late President's
mother, who has just died at Mentor, O., aged
eighty-six, was born in New Hampshire, and
moved to Ohio with her husband in 1830. A
log cabin was built and a farm partly cleared;
but her husband soon died, and Mrs. Garfield
was left to struggle with many difficulties. She
faced them heroically, refused to send her elder
children out to work among the neighboring 
settlers, toiled with her own hands to keep them
together under her own eye, and from her they
received the first rudiments of an education.—
Ex.
	The Jubilee Memorial to the Queen in favor
of stopping the sale of liquor on Sunday has
only just been handed in.  It was signed by
1,132,608 women, and is said to be the largest
ever presented. Among the ladies who 
waited on the Home Secretary with it were
John Bright's sister, Mrs. Bright Lucas, Presi-
dent of the British Women's Temperance
Association, aud Mrs. Temple; the Bishop of 
London. They mentioned the significant fact
that in one small town, where there were forty-
two liquor-sellers, the wives of all but four had
signed the memorial.
	In the spring of 1860 Mr. Trollope became
acquainted with George Eliot and G. H. Lewes.
His impressions of the former are given in the
following passage of his "Reminiscences:" "She 
has been compared to the portraits of Savon-
arola (who was frightful), and of Dante (who
though stern and bitter looking, was handsome).
Something there was of both faces in George
Eliot's physiognomy.  Lewes told us, in her
presence, of the exclamation uttered suddenly
by some one to whom she was suddenly pointed
out at a place of public entertainment—I be-
lieve it was at a Monday popular concert in St.
James’ hall. 'That,' said a bystander, 'is George
Eliot.' The gentleman to whom she was thus
indicated gave one swift, searching look, and
exclaimed, sotto voce, 'Dante's aunt!' Lewes
thought this happy, and he recognized the kind
of likeness that was meant to the great singer of
the ‘Divine Comedy.’ She, herself, playfully
disclaimed any resemblance to Savonarola.
But, although such resemblance was very dis-
tant—Savonarola’s peculiarly unbalanced coun-
tenance being a strong caricature of hers—some
likeness there was.  Her speaking voice was, I 
think, one of the most beautiful I ever heard,
and she used it conscientiously, if I may say
so."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ALONE.
We live alone, where'er our lot is cast,
	Bent down with care, or raised by Pride on high;
Alone we pass our lives, and at the last
	Alone we have to die.
The gifts of earth may bless our earthly lot,
	The joys of faithful love may be our own,
We count up friendships; but it matters not-
	The soul is yet alone.

The bounteous promise of the years to be
	Fills our glad youth with visions of delight;
This is the Paradise of Hope, and we
	Rejoice whilst all is bright.
But, even when dear hands are clasping ours,
	We are alike "unknowing and unknown,"
For no two souls contend with equal pow'rs,
	Each bears his cross alone.

We choose our paths through Life's turmoil and din-
	Some kindred spirits will be surely nigh?
But each one for himself desires to win
	That rest for which we sigh.
Alone in solitude, or crowds no less,
	No heart we meet is moulded like our own-
Who is there hath not felt the bitterness
	Of dwelling thus alone?

One in a crowd of ever-restless souls,
	One in a multitude that heeds us not,
"Each for himself," while hidden force controls
	Each changing  human lot.
Drifting afar upon a troubled sea
	Whose boundless waters ever beat and moan
On the dim shores of vast eternity,
	We reach that port alone;

And then set free, exalted and refined,
	Through higher circles shall our being range,
Beyond all misconstruction of our kind,
	Beyond all fear of change.
In sweet companionship for ever given
	Of happy souls once burdened like our own,
Yes, it must be the "perfect joy" of Heaven
	To feel no more alone!
							-Family Herald.


[scribbled on side:
Annie E. Cannon]

	AUNT JERUSHA ATTENDS A
		COOKING SCHOOL.
	In their great anxiety to start Aunt Jerusha
home, her nieces forgot to enclose in her travel-
ing bag the cook book they had promised her.
Such an omission, though very trivial to them,
was of more importance to their aunt, for she
had promised herself the rare treat on the way
home of "inspectin the thing and enjoy in it."
And so, when fairly seated in the cars and
awaiting the start, she began searching for
the book, and found it missing, what should she
do but gather up her traps and return to town,
reasoning to herself as she walked along in the
following manner:
	"It don’t make much difference, no how, fur
my ticket’s good fur two weeks, and this is only
the ninth day sence I left, and no one’s ex-
pectin me, and James is as good in the house ter
look after things as an ole woman; and I guess
sister and them girls will be mighty glad ter
see me comin back if it is only fur a day more.
I declar, at first I didn’t like them girls much,
I thought them so proud; but the way they
worked fur me the last two days wuz just as-
tonishin, and no wonder, with so much agoin
on, they furgot that thar book; I pretty nigh
furgot my specs and several things in the hurry
of gettin off.”		
	The consternation of the girls, when Aunt
Jerusha entered the house and carefully laid
down her traps, and proceeded to take off her
bonnet and shawl, can scarcely be described.
	“Why, Aunty,” they cried out, “what’s the
matter? You surely were in plenty of time?
Has anything happened?”
	"Nothin;” Aunt Jerusha cooly replied, seat-
ing herself and smoothing out her dress,
“nothin has happened, only you furgot ter put

[Column Two]

that cook book of yourn in the bag, and as I
aint in no particular hurry to git home, I jest
thot I’d come back and git it, and spend another
day with you, as thar’s no knowin when I’ll
git to cum agin. Whar’s your mother?”
	“Oh, she’s gone to the Club, and we are
going to the Cooking School, so you will have
the house all to yourself, and can read the book
all you please.” This pert little speech might
have offended Aunt Jerusha had she been any
other than the dear old common sense woman
that she was, but she very properly refused to
notice any insolence in her young nieces, “con-
siderin,” as she herself honestly states it, “their
age and breedin,” and answered them in a still
more astonishing manner, by announcing her
willingness to accompany them to the school:
	“I allus have thot, ever sence you fust spoke
of that school, that I’d like ter go along once
and see what it wuz like, and now’s a right
splendid chance, so hustle along, girls, and git
your things on and let’s be off.” 	
	There was no alternative; Mina tried to get
out of going, but her sister could not have the
whole burden of taking Aunt Jerusha among
their fashionable friends placed on her, so they
resolved to endure it together, consoling them-
selves with the thought that they were a little
late, and as order would be called, and all in-
tent on the cooking lesson, there would be no
chance for talking; but the place has not yet
been found where Aunt Jerusha did not find a
chance to talk and make the best of it, too.
On entering the room among the ladies of ton,
with their stylish and extravagant costumes
partially concealed behind a large new kitchen
apron, with book and pencil in hand and eyes
watching the master, with his large white cap
and long apron, his sleeves partly rolled up,
and his hands holding out a pound of butter,
Aunt Jerusha made a low curtsy, and having
said “how dye” in a voice loud enough to be
heard by all, turned to the white robed man
and said:	
	"I hope, mister, I aint intrudin, but my
nieces here has talked so much about this here
school, that as I wuz stayin in town another
day, havin furgot the Cook Book they gin me,
and cum back fur it, I jest thot I’d cum along
with em ter-day and see whut kind of a cook
you wuz; you know I kinder pride myself on
my housekeepin and cookin, and if a man kin
beat a woman like me a cookin I’d jest like ter
make that man’s acquaintance.”
	After this neat little introduction, Aunt
Jerusha sat down, quite pleased with herself;
but her nieces, perceiving the suppressed smiles
on the assembled faces, and noticing the whis-
pers passing around, were anything but pleased,
and would have given the world if they had
remained away, but they whispered to their
Aunt not to say anything more, as all talk on
anything but the lesson subject was out of order.
"Sakes alive, children,” she replied, in a loud
and audible whisper, “you don’t think I cum
here ter talk and show off my knowledge, do
yer? Course not; I want ter see how much the
man does know.”
	Silence being now obtained from Aunt
Jerusha’s corner, the master proceeded thus
with the lesson: “Ladies, we will to day take
puff paste. First write down the recipe in your
note books. One pound of flour; one pound of
butter, wash the butter free from salt and work
it to a roll as soft as your dough will be, mix
with your flour an ounce of the butter, then
pour on enough water to mix up to the proper
thickness.” As the teacher dictated the recipe
he proceeded with the mixing of the dough
and Aunt Jerusha rose from her seat when the
water was poured among the flour on the
board, fully expecting it to run on the floor.
"I say, mister, don't you mix your dough in a
pan?” “No, madam, I never use a pan for pie
crust.” “Wal, I declar, ef thet don’t beat me
how yer keep your floor clean, but mebbe yer

[Column Three]

don’t hev ter scrub it yourself, so don’t care
how much mus yer make; I guess the women
does the scrubbin and cleanin up while you
cook and do sech things.” A frown from
the teacher, a smile from the pupils and a
sigh from the nieces followed this tart remark,
when the master proceeded; “work the dough,
or cloth, as we term it, up smoothly, then roll
out on the board to the thinness of an inch,
spread the butter over three fourths of the 
cloth, leaving one fourth clean; when smoothly
spread lay the clean part over the butter, then
bring the lower part up over, and proceed to
roll. Roll out two or three times lightly, then
fold in a small roll, lay a tea towel over and
place in the larder or some cool place for fifteen
or twenty minutes.” The master then pro-
ceeded to prepare some oysters, giving the fol-
lowing recipe: “Beard the oysters and if large
halve them; put them into a saucepan with a
piece of butter rolled in flour, some finely
shred lemon rind, a little white pepper and
milk, and a portion of the liquor from the fish;
stir all well together, let it simmer for a few
minutes, it is then ready for your patty tins,
which shall be shortly prepared with the puff 
paste.”	
	Aunt Jerusha sat quite speechless during
this part of the lesson, much to the gratifica-
tion of her nieces, who dreaded any pause
in the lesson for fear she would again say some-
thing to annoy the teacher. He again took
out the paste and rolled it as before, calling
this the second roll, and again placed it away, 
in the wait preparing fruit for the pies; this
was done twice more, making four rolls in all,
and then the tins were covered with the paste,
the oysters and fruit put in, and the covers
placed over, and all put in the oven; in a few 
minutes they came out, a light brown, and five
times the size they were when placed in—the
oyster patties.	
	Well, Aunt Jerusha never saw such flakey, 
light pie crust; she rose from her seat in delight;
and said, “I ax yer pardon, mister, and declar
ter goodness I never before see the like of that;
ef rollin and waitin four times'll make dough
cum up that way, I think I’ll try myself. We
only take, to home, a pound of flour and mix
about a quarter of a pound of lard in it, and 
mix it with nice cold water, and roll it out and
spread about as much butter as lard, and fold
it over and roll it in, and fold, and then that’s
about all, and it’s pretty good pie crust, too,
but nothin like yourn.”	
	“Yes, madam, that is a very good recipe for
short paste, and is much used for ordinary
cooking,” replied the master. “Now, ladies,
you have three recipes: Puff Paste, Short Paste
and Oyster Patties, and that is quite sufficient
for one lesson.”
	The girls didn’t mind this last speech of their
Aunt’s much, as it showed her knowledge some,
and hurried the lesson along instead of retard-
ing it, but they hurried her home for all that,
and she was more than willing to go, for she 
wanted to try immediately, before forgetting
the recipe, the making of Puff Paste, and she
did make it, and succeeded beautifully, so that
the girls and their parents had some fine pies
for supper, and did not regret that evening
that Aunt Jerusha returned and accompanied
them to the Cooking School.		A. W. C


Prof. Maria Mitchell ranks with Caroline
Herschell, these two being the most distin-
guished of women astronomers.  Miss Herschell
announced the last of the eight comets dis-
covered by her in 1795, and the next comet
discovered by a woman was seen by Maria
Mitchell in 1847.  Prof. Mitchell's original in-
vestigations and observations have included
valuable examinations of the nebulae, and much
work connected with the coast survey and the
compilation of the Nautical Almanac.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah   Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.	
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY.  UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	FEBRUARY 1, 1888.


﻿A VICTORY FOR WOMEN.
	The women of Washington Territory are rejoic-
ing in full suffrage, given them by law, and the bill
granting it signed by Governor Semple on the
19th of January 1888.  This makes three times
that the Legislature of that Territory have voted
for Woman Suffrage.  First passed a law in 1883,
and the women voted under it.  Governor Squire
of that Territory, in 1884 said of the law in his
report to the Secretary of the Interior.
	"It meets with the approval of a large majority
of the people and the women of the territory are
for the most part, strongly desirous that the
enactmeut be retained upon our Statute books."
	Republicans and Democrats inserted in their
platforms the declaration, that "the elective fran-
chise should not be denied to any citizen on ac-
count of sex."  The Democratic platform "re-
commended that women should be released
from compulsory jury duty."
	In 1885 the Legislature reaffirmed the law, and
"the women voted in increasing numbers."
	In February 1886, after the women had voted
three years and a half, the Supreme Court of that
Territory pronounced the law invalid, on the
ground that the nature of the bill must be des-
cribed in the title, and that the women suffrage
bill had been headed only,—"An Act to Amend
Section—Art—,"instead of "An Act to Enfran-
chise Women."  The Legislature has now given
to this law an explicit title.
	The new law states that, "women are exempted
from jury duty."  This may or may not mean that
they are ineligible, according to the interpretation
given to the law.  While permitted to serve as
jurors it is said they gave complete satisfaction
being "both competent and conscientious."  In
Wyoming the same testimony has been given over
and over.
	Governor Ames of Massachusetts, and Gover-
nor Larrabee of Iowa, have both recommended
municipal suffrage for women in their inaugural
addresses this year.  This is a fact worthy of re-
cord.  A municipal woman suffrage bill has been
introduced into both Houses of the New York
Legislature.
	In Mexico women are making great progress
though it is such a conservative country, and
where women are coming to the front in medicine
and surgery and in the literary field, it proves that
the spirit of woman's advancement is abroad in
the world, and the good seed sown among many na-
tions is beginning to spring up, and we doubt not
will bear both blossom and fruit in "the good time
coming."
	Meanwhile patience is a virtue that must be
cultivated by some, at least, for here in Utah where
women had voted for seventeen years with the
best possible results, forsooth all at once "by
one fell blow" the axe descends; the law which
had been passed, the bill with a complete heading
that had been signed and sealed according to
Territorial Statutes, was annulled, and without re-
dress or process of law of any kind, the ballot in the


hands of the women of Utah is rendered null and
void. And why? Echo answers,” “Why!” There
is no good or valid reason. There may have been
a political reason known to those who were in-
strumental in making the demand or request, but
by what right, except that “might is right,” we
fail to comprehend. But the object sought by
those who anticipated place and power by these
small means,has not been attained and never will be
It was most illiberal and unjust to lake from the
women of Utah this right to self-protection, and
it will never further the ends which it was de-
signed to compass. When Utah becomes a
State, with all the freedom that Statehood implies,
the Legislature will, no doubt,confer upon women
equal political rights and privileges of citizenship.


A DELIGHTFUL GATHERING.

	About thirty ladies assembled in the parlors of
Mrs. Phebe Y. Beattie, on Tuesday, Jan. 31st, to
celebrate the anniversary of the birthday of Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, familiarly known as Aunt Zina
throughout these valleys of the mountains. Sister
Young was born in 1821, and has reached the age 
of 67 years. Many loving tributes were paid to
her by those present, almost every one speaking
in glowing terms of her genuine worth and good-
ness of heart. It was also the anniversary of the
birth of another of the pioneer women of Zion--
Mrs. Jane S. Richards—and one, who among the
sick, the desolate, the afflicted and the sorrowful,
has also been a helper and comforter in both
words and deeds.
	After some hours spent in genial conversation,
delicious refreshments were handsomely served to
the invited guests of the day, and the hostess,
Mrs. Beattie, in a very pleasing manner, alluded
to the happy occasion that had brought together
so many dear friends, and nominated "Aunt
Presendia" the elder sister of the honored one as
Chairman of an informal meeting, which was
agreed to by all present. Sister P. L. Kimball
graciously accepted the honor conferred, and gave
out the hymn, "O, my Father," etc, Prayer was
offered by Sister M. I. Horne.
	Aunt Presendia spoke in terms of admiration of
her sister Zina; thought it would be impossible to
say too much for her; also alluded to the women
of this Church who had borne the heat and bur-
den of the day and proved faithful—Mother
Whitney, Sister Eliza, Sister Marinda Hyde and
others. Referred to her labors with them; felt to
bless the wives of Joseph Smith the Prophet, who 
were now living; loved and honored them.
	Aunt Zina appreciated all the loving tributes, etc.
Desired to live worthily, and to do good in her
day, and be a blessing to her associates.
	Sister R. R. Grant spoke eloquently of Aunt
Zina, Mother Whitney and Sister Eliza, and al-
luded to refreshing seasons in the past; enjoyed
the society of the sisters and the spirit and influ-
ence that prevailed when all were united as on the
present occasion.
	Sister Emily D. P. Young expressed herself
strong in the faith of the Gospel, and not dis-
couraged with trials; had seen many changes;
knew the principles taught by Joseph Smith were
eternal, and exhorted all to prove faithful.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. J. Stevenson, S. M.
Kimball, M. Burnham, B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells,
E.R. Shipp, M. D., M. A. Freeze, F. Y. Thatcher,
P. Y. Beattie, M. C. Shipp, M. D., Julia C. Howe,
C. Horrocks, L. D. Alder, Ann Groesbeck, M. 
Y. Dougal, Etta Ellerbeck, Annie Watson and M.
I. Horne each made brief congratulatory ad-
dresses, and mentioned every good thing possible.
The absent ones were not forgotten, those who
had proved their integrity unto the end and
passed away from our sight, and the fervent wish
was expressed that all present might prove worthy
and attain to the same exaltation, and be associa-

[Column 2]
ted in the eternal worlds. The gift of tongues
was manifest in blessing, and interpretations were
given, and it was a time of refreshing from on
high. Singing, "The Spirit of God," etc., and a 
benediction was pronounced, and the sisters dis-
persed, feeling comforted and strengthened by the
loving words and the outpourings of the Holy
Spirit.
	Sisters Jane S. Richards and Minerva W. Snow
left the company before the meeting commenced,
as duty called them in another direction.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT extends heartfelt
congratulations to Sister Zina D. H. Young and
Sister Jane S. Richards on having attained to the
three score and more years, and wishes for each
of them length of days, prosperity, honors, and
that experience that will fit and prepare them for
celestial glory and happiness in the great here-
after.


A BOUQUET.

	My subject matter is a Bouquet, or collection of
words, which should become a part of the study
and the attributes of a child, as they develop into
manhood or womanhood. They are, viz.: Stamina,
Habit, Order, Obedience and Harmony.
				STAMINA.
	To write an article for the paper requires some
stamina, and to read an article to an audience re-
quires more stamina. To deny ourselves o
pleasure, to fulfill a promise, requires stamina. To
do just right, when very much tempted to do wrong,
requires stamina. To get up early on a very cold
frosty morning to perform duties, requires stamina,
and when a youth is desirous of qualifying himself
or herself, for any noble purpose or position, to
accomplish it will require a great deal of stamina.
Sometimes, when temptations beset us, to say the
little word no! with emphasis, when we would very
much like to say yes, requires stamina. Well,
what do I meam by stamina?
	A fixed, determined purpose (not stubbornness),
unmoved, unshaken, possessing a support, a
strength, a solidity. Some people are like a piece
of cloth, that is deficient both in warp and woof,
they have no stamina. George Washington, when
asked by his father, "Who cut down the cherry
tree?" possessed sufficient stamina to say, "I cut
down the tree, father; I cannot tell a lie!"
	Now, let us stick to our text all through life, and
let our works show that we have the stamina that
characterized a Napoleon Bonaparte, when he
wanted his troops to ascend the Alps, and they
had halted at difficulties; he says, "On! on! my
brave boys."
	If your head pains you and your lessons are
tedious, sleep, and try again, and you will be
astonished to see how the brain has awakened by
rest and sleep. You should seldom stop at obsta-
cles, but strive to surmount them, and prove
thereby that you possess some stamina. If you
have not succeeded your effort will have given you
a degree of experience, and by it a strength that
will aid you in another encounter, perhaps more
difficult, which you could not have accomplished
had it not been for the previous learned lesson.
Like the tree, with every additional blast and
bluster the roots reach out and cling closer to their
mother earth, and the tree still grows lofty and
majestically and over-looks the earth beneath.
Now, by your stamina  and magnanimous course
you have attained to the stature of manhood and
womanhood; you now are able to bless the rod by
which you were chided, and kiss the chastening
hand.
				HABIT.
	What can we say of it? Like unto stamina, if
possessed, it also is as important a trait of charac-
ter. If a person becomes accustomed to eat just
such a time of day, or just such an hour each day,


the system calls for it and craves it; just so in re-
gard to sleep; if accustomed to retire at 7, 8, or 9
o'clock in the evening, at that time the eyelids be
come heavy, and the head begins to nod.  Habit
will weave a chain around us for good or evil, that
will enslave or enrich us.  The man that has be-
come a slave to tobacco through habit, also auto-
matically, moves his hand into his pocket through 
habit.  The twig that is bent, and allowed to grow
thus, becomes fixed, and it is impossible to 
straighten it it; because it has been allowed its
habit. 
	A child that has been accustomed to allow their 
feet and hands upon other people's chairs, and 
their tongues to ejaculate oaths at the beginning 
and end of each sentence they speak, and to allow 
their face and hands and feet to be unwashed, 
have become accustomed to it, and their habit is
so fixed that awkwardness is no name for it, and a 
suitable name for them would be a "booby."  This 
is what habit has effected.  
				ORDER.
	This is another very important trait of character, 
when it is cultivated; and, having a place for 
everything, and putting things into it as they move
along; things also will apparently move into place, 
without any effort, because it has been their habit
or custom to do so, and finally disorder around 
them will be a source of annoyance, and good
order is not effected without more or less obedi-
ence.
				OBEDIENCE.
	If children are accustomed to obey their parents,
they finally move automatically, without an oppo-
site will in the mother, and it is not painful to them;
but if accustomed to question the motive each 
time, and stop to oppose, they will always be at
unrest, or, in other words, in hot water; yes, even
boiling.
	Now, what does the cultivation of these traits or 
attributes do for us?
	They qualify and help us to harmonize with
others and our surroundings.  
				HARMONY
	Is the last of our group, but none the less im-
portant, and should have a place in our collection.
In music it is an important element, and quite as
essential in the family group or circle.  Each
member of the family should harmonize with the
other, then there is no family discord.
	In arranging a bouquet, colors should harmonize.
We have what we call complementary colors; that 
is, that contrast with each other, yet they are
those that harmonize.  It is so with individuals;
they may be unlike each other, having their own
individuality, but still harmonize.  This cultivation
makes good citizens and Saints.  
	I have now collected and treated upon a group
of words, and I have so arranged them in my
bouquet that they harmonize, and if they are a 
part of the attributes of an individual, we find in 
them germs that will adorn them and fit them for
any society.  As we add to the bouquet additional
flowers, if in harmony, we beautify it, and if an
attribute is added to the individual, it is as season-
ing, spice, perfumery and luster to their existence, 
as so many additional stars to the constellation, 
which we admire because of their brilliancy and 
scintillations.  The result of the cultivation of 
these beautiful attributes will be length of days,
peace and heaven.
					DR. E. S. BARNEY.
	Written for the M. I. A. Paper of the 13th Ward,
S. L. City.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY. 

	Minutes of the annual meeting of the Y. L. M.
I. Association of the 17th Ward, held at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Ettie Ellerbeck, Jan. 25,1888, Prest.
J. C. Howe presiding.


Meeting opened by singing, “The Lord will
provide.” Prayer was offered by Sister Mary A.
Freeze. Continued by singing, “We’ll sing all
hail to Jesus’ name.” The roll call was omitted,
to save time. Minutes of the annual meeting of
1887 were read and accepted. The programme
consisted of sketches of the nations, as typified
by parts of the great image which Nebuchadnezzar
saw in a dream. The sketches were interspersed
with songs and music. Programme carried out as
follows: Reading, 2nd chapter of Daniel, Mamie
Leaver; Piano Music, Margie Dwyer; Sketch of
Bybylon, as typified by the head of gold, Emma
Ellerbeck; Song, Viola Pratt; Media and Persia,
typified by the breast and arms of silver, Allie
Merrill; Song, May Preston; Sketch of Mace-
donia, as typified by the belly and thighs of brass,
Lizzie Smith; Song, Maud Pratt; Sketch of Rome,
as typified by the legs of iron, Ella Dallas; Music,
Emma Ellerbeck; Essay on the ten toes of the
image, and the little stone cut from the mountain
without hands, Emma Finch; Song, Mrs. Louie
Felt and Lizzie Smith. This concluded the pro-
gramme. 
	The resignation of Mrs. Sadie Howe, as Third
Counselor in the Association, was offered and ac-
cepted. She was honorably released from this
position, being unable to attend to the duties of
the office on account of home duties.
	A motion was made and seconded that Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beattie act as Third Counselor to the
President of the Association; the motion was
carried by unanimous vote.
	The Association was then addressed by Sisters
Zina D. H. Young, M. I. Horne, Presendia Kim-
ball, Sarah M. Kimball, E. S. Taylor, Mary A.
Freeze, B.W. Smith, E. B. Wells, Y. Dougal,
Dr. Maggie Shipp, Mary P. Young and Mattie H.
Tingey. Each expressed herself grateful for hav-
ing had the opportunity of being present. All
had enjoyed the exercises, and offered many en-
couraging and instructive remarks. Loving words
were spoken to the memory of Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith, who was present at the last annual
meeting. Each visitor asked God’s blessing upon
the President, her Counselors and the members of
the Association.
	Sister Presendia Kimball spoke in tongues; the
interpretation was given by Sister Zina D. H.
Young. Closing remarks were made by President
Howe. The programme for the regular meeting
of February 1st was read.
	The meeting adjourned for one year. Closed
by singing, “The Millennial Dawn.” Benedic-
tion by Dr. R. B. Pratt.
	At the close of the meeting all partook of sup-
per, prepared by the young ladies. A pleasant
time was enjoyed by all, for all felt that they had
enjoyed a feast temporally and spiritually.
						ELLA DALLAS, Sec.


MISSIONARY WORK.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I wish to place before your readers a few inter-
esting remarks by Elder R. H. Ford, now on a
mission to England.
	He visited some distinguished gentleman and
ladies, who gladly heard the words of life and
salvation; amongst the number was Earl Russel,
to whom he paid a visit, and on leaving him he
thanked him much for his visit, and said he had
enjoyed it. He has had much persecution on ac-
count of the apostates, but is doing much good
in baptizing precious souls and administering to
the sick. I will give you a copy of a letter:
MY DEAR CHRISTY:
	In and as pertaining to mortality, and I am
sorry to say not in the Gospel, I thought at first I
would treat your cruel letter to me, which I re-
ceived a few days ago, with contempt, but you are

[column 2]
my own sister, and my duty to God and you de-
mands otherwise, hence this epistle.
	First; I married my wife honorably, after she
had been a widow twelve years. The Scrip-
tures say, “Let no man put away his wife save for
fornication,” and Mr. Jarman’s wife, who is now
my lawful wife, by the laws of God, and just laws
by an enlightened nation put him away, and freed
her from a wicked man, full of every vice and
wickedness, and now she knows the contrast be-
tween a good and bad husband, and that by a
God-given right to protect His daughters. You
have insulted a servant of God, and also the same
God that sent me to proclaim the glad tidings of
the restoration of the Gospel in all its primitive
glory, majesty, effulgence and grandeur and
spiritual gifts of the Holy Ghost, that the sheep
that know the Master’s voice may no longer be
driven away and about by every wind of false
doctrine of man and creeds, based on traditional
errors of an apostate church.
	You say that you do not believe in miracles, and
that your God is not a God of miracles; you have
told the truth in this, for your God is not a God of
miracles and power, but is as much a nonentity as
your senseless creed describes Him in the first
article of your faith, which says you “believe in a
God that has neither body, parts, nor passions."
What kind of a throne can hesit upon? Answer;
a topless throne. No right hand for Christ to sit
by, no finger to write on the tables of stone, no
body, in whose image Christ was the‘express
image, no mouth to speak, no attributes.
	Lucifer, the founder of all false creeds, who was
cast out of heaven with the one third that consti-
tute the spirits, Paul speaks of thus: “In the lat-
ter times or days many shall depart from the faith,
giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of
devils.” Lucifer represents that, being named in
the first article of your faith, being as cast out of
heaven and could not take a body, and he has
founded the great heap of teachers. Paul speaks
of having the form of godliness, and denying the
power thereof, as you do; ever learning, but never
able to come to a knowledge of the truth; preach-
ing for hire and divining for money, while I and
my brethren, the Elders of Israel,like the glorious
apostles of old, come forth without purse or scrip-
trusting in God, dropping our net like Peter of
old, suffering many privations for the love of souls.
If I was proclaiming to my nation a fabrication and a
lie,God would not answer my prayers as He does,
nor would He answer as He has done sacred
ordinances of His house, administered by my
hand as a legally and duly authorized Seventy and
Elder in Israel. I will cite you two instances out
of many, in all humility, and not boastfully. A
Sister Sims has a son of fourteen summers, he
had a violent attack of cholera-infantum, and was
suffering excruciating pains; I was led by the
Holy Ghost to call on her; she had sent for a doc-
tor, who had sent word that he could not come,
but would call in the morning. She, on my
arrival that evening, asked me, as an Elder in the
Church of Jesus Christ, to anoint him and pray
over him, and lay my hands on him, as recorded
in James, last chapter—it will do well for you to
read this. I anointed the boy and prayed over
him, and laid my hands on him, and in the name
of Jesus Christ, and by virtue and authority of the
holy priesthood in me vested, rebuked the disease
from his body, and blessed him with life and
health, and God stretched forth His holy arm and
healed him up, yea, raised him up. as recorded in
James, and word was sent to the doctor next morn-
ing not to come. You can write to Mrs. Thomas
Sims, and she will testify to you and give God the
glory for a restoration of the Gospel after a silence
of 1806 years, with all its gifts.
	A sister, a poor woman that I baptized on the
30th of September, 1887, who is truly born of the
water and Spirit—she had the same complaint that
the woman had who touched the hem of the


Savior's garment, whose legally authorized ser-
vant I am—and the doctor said he could not cure
her, but he could only in a measure help, by check-
ing the flow of blood she threw up so copiously 
every time she coughed, as well as other channels.
At her request I administered the holy ordinance
to her, and she has not taken any more doctor's
medicine, and has neither discharge, nor has she 
coughed up since, and is getting well fast, being
restored to health by the power of God, the God
of miracles, the Father of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ, and my Father in Heaven and the
Father of you His rebellious daughter. He
or she that believeth and is baptized shall be saved.
but he or she that believeth not shall be damned. 
Read, Mark last chapter, 16th verse. You will
never see these things until you are born of the 
water and of the Spirit; God does not call licen-
tious men to the ministry, nor acknowledge their
administration.
	I am doing much good in the strength of the
Lord, building up the broken-hearted and setting
the captive free, sacrificing home and a loving
wife and comfort and friends. Send me back the
book I gave you, as you say when you die you do
not want to be contaminated with anything
belonging to a Latter-day Saint or Mormon. Well,
if you die with those sentiments you will have
your wish granted you, for there is only one place
you can go to and not be contaminated with the
presence of a Latter-day Saint, Mormon or
mighty Prophet; for when you knock at the gates
of heaven in vain for admittance, Brigham Young
will be there, and his wives and children. Isaiah
says, 4th chapter, 1st, 2nd and 3rd verses, "Seven
women shall take hold of one man, saying, we
will eat our own bread and wear our own apparel,
only let us be called by thy name to take away our
reproach And in that day shall the branch of
the Lord be beautiful and glorious." Is not Isaiah 
a holy prophet? Acts, 3rd chapter, 19th, 26th and 
21st verses, "And He shall send Jesus Christ,
whom the heavens must receive until the restora-
tion of all things which God has spoken by the
mouths of all His holy prophets since the world 
began." And Christ Jesus will not come to reign
until all these laws are restored again, and the
ordinances that an apostate church, a false
Christianity has done away with by their senseless
form; breaking the ordinances, changing the
everlasting covenant, denying the power of God
and teaching the people that God is not a God of
miracles.
	Now, the time is close at hand when the Jews
will all be gathered back to Jerusalem to witness
the second reckoning or advent of Christ and the
Ten Tribes from the north, and when He comes,
which will be soon, yea, as a thief in the night,
you will, if you do not speedily repent, be 
amongst the foolish virgins, with no oil in their
lamps, too late to borrow of the woman you desig-
nate as vile, and the man you are pleased to call 
such vile names, because he is not a salaried
minister preaching for hire.
	Say, do you expect to go where Jacob is, with
his four wives, Abraham, with his wives, who was 
a friend of God? Do you expect to enter the
gates of the New Jerusatem, when it comes down 
from God, on which are the names of twelve 
sons of Jacob by his four plural wives? God
will say to men that make kept-mistresses of
women instead of wives, and those that rebel
against the patriarchal order of marriage, "Get 
out, ye hypocrites, ye workers of iniquity, ye deny
the great order of procreation, that gave the noble
sires their bodies that surround my throne, and
whose names are written on the golden gates of
my holy city."
	I must now say good bye. Repent before it is
too late.
			Your sorrowful brother,
								R. W. F.


﻿WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Sanpete
Stake will convene at Spring City, March 10, 1888.
Secretaries are requested to send in their reports
from the various settlements on or before March
I, and oblige,
			M. A. White, Stake Secretary.


[Column 1] 
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
	MARICOPA  STAKE.
	I herewith transmit a brief summary of our
conference, which was held Jan. 5th, 1888, in
the Mesa Hall, Prest. Elizabeth McDonald
presiding. Her Counselor, also a majority of
the Relief Society officers of the Stake present,
with a few brethren. After the usual prelimin-
aries of singing and prayer, and minutes read
of preceding conference, Prest. McDonald
made a few opening remarks, expressive of her
pleasure in again meeting with the sisters in
conference again. Had hoped we should have
had Prest. Horne with us at this time but cir-
cumstances were such that she was obliged to
return to Salt Lake before conference. Prest.
C. I. Robson and A. F. McDonald were neces-
sarily absent, which was quite a disappointment,
but hoped we should have a time of rejoicing
 together. Wished to hear reports of the differ-
ent branches, which was responded to by the
respective presidents in a very favorable man-
ner, showing that many of the sisters were
wide awake, and zealous in all the duties of
 their societies, while others were correspondingly
slack.
	Cheering and encouraging remarks were
made by a number of the sisters, especially by
Coun. Susan Savage, who represented the
Papage Ward, where herself and a number of
the sisters and brethren are laboring for the
benefit of the natives, and it is certainly re-
markable the progress they are making,
especially the younger portion of them, in their
studies, reading, music, etc., proving that the
blessing of the Lord is with them in their
labors.
	Prest. McDonald also spoke upon the same
subject; said we could act as missionaries, even
if it were not amongst them; many of the young
maidens were anxious to learn housekeeping; if 
some of the sisters could take them to their
homes and teach them housekeeping, the art of
cooking, etc., it would prove a great blessing to
them.
	Bro. Henry Rogers also spoke of this mission
as a very important one, and we were required 
to take an interest in it. Spoke favorably of
the labors the sisters had performed in this di-
rection; it certainly was very creditable to them.
Spoke of the outside element that was gather-
ing in our midst; felt to regret it. “Let us not
seek their society, only to do them good; treat
them courteously, but do not associate with
them.” Spoke upon many more important
principles pertaining to our religion, and of
the many errors we were liable to be led into,
without the spirit of God for a guide.
	Bro. Chas. Allen felt to bear testimony to
the good spirit which had prevailed in this
meeting; could fully endorse the remarks which
had been made, especially concerning those who
were not of our faith, who are gathering in our
midst. “Let us protect our sons and daughters
from their influence, as far as lies within our
power; our examples should be worthy of 
imitation by the youth of this people.”
	After a few interesting remarks by A. F.
Stuart and Bro. John Lewis, conference ad-
journed for three months. Benediction by
Coun. Henry Rogers.
	S.M. POMEROY, Sec.
	DAVIS STAKE
	
The quarterly conference of the Relief So-

[Column 2]
ciety of Davis Stake was held in the Centre-
villa Meeting House, Jan. 20, 1888. Meeting
opened by singing. Prayer by Bro. John
Wooley. Continued with singing. Prest. S.
Grant presided, and Sister Zina D. H. Young
met with us. Minutes of previous conference
were read and accepted; the reports of the 
different branches of the R. S. of the Stake 
were also read.
	Prest. Grant said she did not think it too
late in the season to wish all a happy new year;
was pleased to see so many present; was also
glad to see so many of our brethren with us;
always felt glad to be supported by the priest-
hood; felt a determination to do her duty.
	She then called upon the presidents of the 
branches that were present to speak. Sister
Hatch represented South Bountiful; Sister
Fackrell, West Bountiful; Sister Lucina Ses-
sions, East Bountiful; Sister Margaret Randall,
Centerville; Sister Ellen Barkdall, Farming-
ton.
	Sister Zina D. Young then addressed us.
Said we should always be united, and learn to 
control ourselves; be subject to those placed
over us; cultivate a love for our religion, for it
would bring us joy and satisfaction. “Let us 
teach our children correct principles and to
have faith in God.” Urged the necessity of
mothers watching over their children, and try
to keep them from falling into the snares that are
devised by our enemies to lead them astray.
Advised the sisters to read the Book of Mor-
mon, and especially the first and second books
of Nephi; said we were living in the very day
that was spoken of by the prophets. Spoke of
the great testimony that Bro. Joseph and Bro.
Brigham had borne to the world and they had
rejected it; and also of the judgments that were
beginning to be poured out upon the nations of
the earth; thought the Latter-day Saints should
be humble, and not forget their prayers.
	Bishop Cheney said he had been much edified
in listening to the good counsel and advice of 
the sisters; felt to endorse what had been said;
knew that our Heavenly Father was blessing
us, notwithstanding our carelessness. Spoke of
the responsibility of parents. “Let us honor
this trust, and be watchful over our children,
that they may grow up firm believers in the 
principles of the Gospel. I pray that God
may give us liberal hearts, that we may com-
fort the hearts of the poor and those who have
been deprived of their fathers and husbands.”
	Prest. Grant felt she had been truly blest in
hearing the good instructions that had been 
given.
	Conference then adjourned until 2 o’clock,
with singing and benediction.
	2 p.m.: Meeting opened by singing. Prayer
by Bro. Waddoups, Sen. Singing again.
	Coun. Mary S. Clark said, “We are a blessed
people, gathered here in the valleys of the 
mountains, and if we listen to the counsels of
those placed over us, we will receive great 
blessings. Encourage love for one another; be 
careful to keep the light within us; our enemies
are desirous of destroying the priesthood, that
is what they are working for.” Felt a desire to 
be faithful in the performance of every duty;
spoke of the importance of taking care of our 
bodies. 
	Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very
good instruction; spoke of the evils of tobacco;
said it was destroying the health and laying a 
foundation for disease. Exhorted the mothers
to look after their children; try and gain their 
confidence; have them attend the Primary, as 
it is preparing them to be useful members in
the kingdom of God; teach them to have faith
in the Lord, and they will grow up in it Said
none would be saved in the celestial kingdom 
except those who turn from evil and choose the
good, “Read good books; search for knowledge,
and resist all evil influences; cease to find fault
with one another.” Spoke of the necessity of


prayer, and cultivating the spirit of kind-
ness, and also of the perfect organization that
existed in the Church, even the children were
organized, so that all may know God from the
least to the greatest.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers bore a faithful testi-
mony; spoke of the carelessness of the people.
“We should seek for the Spirit of God and live
in a manner that it will abide with us.”
Thought persecution was necessary to bring us
in the line of our duty; spoke of the Primary;
exhorted all those holding offices in the Asso-
ciation to be faithful and diligent, and  let us
seek for the spirit of our offices and callings.
	Sister Rhoda Hinman had a testimony to
bear of the truth of the work we are engaged
in. “We should live our religion day by day,
and strive to overcome the evil of our natures.
We are living in a day full of events; there is
nothing outside of our religion, but there is
everything in it, for it embraces every truth;
one of the worst things to regret is for a person
to lose the light after they have received it, for
oh, how great is the darkness! My desire is to
perform every known duty, and receive the in-
structions that are given us from time to time
and profit by them.”
	Sister Grant was thankful for the good in-
structions that had been given here to-day;
hoped all would treasure it up; advised the sis-
ters to read the Book of Mormon and all good
books. “Let us search after true knowledge,
for we cannot be saved in ignorance.” Was
much pleased with the advice Sister Zina had
given to mothers; hoped all would profit by it.
“Let us watch over our children, and teach
them the principles of life and salvation, which
will lead them back into the presence of their
Father in Heaven.” Felt determined to try
and do her duty and perform the labors that
were placed upon her.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bro. Christenson.
		RHODA HINMAN, Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
			BY M. J. TANNER.
	Williamsburg, Sunday, May 10, 1885.
	Weather pleasant. Went to church with my
cousin, who is a Methodist. The minister is a
young man and seems earnest in his profession.
Mr. Kimball came this evening, and we had a
nice visit.
	Monday, May 11. Had my photograph
taken this morning. After dinner we visited
Brooklyn, stopping to look through a large new
store. I think I never saw anything so elegant,
and so many novelties in glass and china ware;
in silks and dresses and laces, and in furniture
of all kinds. Each story had a specialty, and
we could go up by elevator or stairs. There is
a beautiful parlor, where ladies can sit down to
rest and look out over the main floor; a dress-
ing room leads from it, fitted up with every
necessary convenience. I have been through
several fine stores, but never saw any like this
one; it is like a museum to go through it. At
each landing we are met by a gentlemanly
clerk, who inquires what he can do for us. We
say we do not wish to buy, but came in to
look at the store. He shows us through as if
visitors were an everyday occurrence. It is a
very pleasant pastime, walking through the
stores, but, like all pastimes, it has some draw-
backs. We ask very few questions about prices,
that being a matter in which we are not par-
ticularly interested; prices are marked in many
instances. When we were tired of walking
and looking around, we took a horse car and
went home.
	Tuesday, May 12. Weather pleasant. Had

[Column Two]

the headache this morning, but felt better after
breakfast. We get tired and warm with walk-
ing, and the draught of the cars gives us a
cold. We are planning a trip to New York
but cousin Charlie comes in and proposes a
trip to Ocean Beach, on the New Jersey coast,
where his aunt lives. She is my cousin, and I
decide to make her a visit, so I hasten to get
ready and go with Charlie. It is a pleasant
ride, and we see some nice towns und large
cities and a very pretty country. We pass
Long Branch, Ocean Grove, Asberry Park, and
a long line of beautiful seaside resorts. We
come to Springtown, where we stop, and take
a back to Sea Plain, where my cousin, Rebecca
Newman, resides. The weather is now cloudy
and chilly, and we are glad to sit by the fire.
It is a country place, and has a bleak, unculti-
vated look with some straggling woods near by;
they tell me the soil is sandy and poor, and the
salt air from the sea is not favorable to the
crops. The prospect is that in a few years it
will be built up as a seaside resort, as so many
miles of the coast has already been; but I am
surprised to see such an old country wear such
a forlorn, uncultivated aspect. The coast here
is a fine bathing and pleasure resort, and peo-
ple come from a long distance to enjoy it
through the summer.
	My cousin, Mrs. Newman, is much surprised
to see us. She is a tall, thin woman with very
keen black eyes, not at all like her sister, Mrs.
Kimball. She hastens to get us some dinner,
after which Charlie and I walk down to the
beach to see the ocean; it is called half a mile
to the beach. We cross a little patch of
woods, where a kind of brier-vine runs through
the sand, intersecting the path at intervals; I
catch my foot under one and nearly fall; I look
at my shoe, and find it badly scraped; I am
glad they are my old shoes. We gain the road
at last, which is just as sandy and hard walk-
ing. We sit down on a log and rest awhile, at
least I do, while Charlie stands around trying
to find something to say, thinking all the time,
no doubt, what a nuisance a woman is. We
walk on and reach the coast at last. It is a
grand thing to stand on the coast of the
Atlantic Ocean. Before us stretches a vast ex-
panse of water. I have seen so many pictures
of the ocean, that it does not seem new to me.
The waves come bounding in from the dark
blue, or, perhaps, green sheet of water, which
reaches out to meet the horizon, and at the
farther edge is a ship with sails stretched,
which looks as if it might fall off. I cannot
blame people of olden times for thinking the
world was flat; it certainly looks flat as far as I
can see, and the sky comes down like an over-
turned bowl. Behind us stretches the shore,
low, sandy, and with here and there an inlet or
pond of salt water, left by the rise of the tides.
One such little lakelet is being enlarged, and
the banks graded, with a nice carriage road
sweeping around it, and on a sign post we read,
“Lake Como.” I do not suppose it presents
any likeness to its illustrious namesake, but,
no doubt, in a few years it will be a very pretty
place.
	The beach, as far as I can see, is low and
sandy; about a quarter of a mile to the left is a
very pretty cottage, and a little way to the
right is the Life Station. The sand is white
and clean; it is damp from the constant washing
of the waves, which are now at high tide, and
come dashing over the sand in a way to make
us jump to keep from getting our feet wet; they
spread out over the sand and are gone so quickly
that I cannot dip my hand in them, though I
try several times; I pat my hand on the wet
sand and taste to see how salt the water is.
They roll themselves back, leaving everything
clean and dry, until they come bounding in
again as before. I try to think of the things
I have read as I stand looking for the first

[Column Three]

time on the grand old ocean, and I remember
these lines of Tennyson’s:
	
	"Break, break, break! on thy cold grey crags, O sea!
		But the tender grace, of a day that is dead,   
	Will never comeback to me."

	I could sit for hours watching the waves
dash and break, but, unfortunately, there, is
no place to sit, and standing is tiresome after so
long a walk. The breeze is so cold that it
rather destroys the sentiment. We walk along
the sand for awhile, gathering pebbles and
broken shells, washed smooth by the action of
the water; I pick up a piece of white bees’ wax,
and I try to weave a romance, wondering how
it came to be thrown up by the waves, and
whose fingers have pressed it, and how many
miles of sea it has traveled? While we stand
there the proverbial barefooted boy approaches,
suspenders broken and pants rolled up; he is
hailed by my companion as Charley, and is in-
troduced to me as a sort of cousin; he is a
grandson of my cousin Rebecka’s. We get
very sociable, and he has considerable informa-
tion to give about the surrounding country; he
is well posted, for his short life has been spent
there, and he is quite able to “talk.” We
realize that the farther we go, the farther we
have to return, so we decide to go to the house,
and reluctantly turn our steps. My cousin’s
husband is at home; his name is Joseph New-
man; he is also her cousin; her maiden name
was Newman, and her mother was my father’s
sister; he is very pleasant and sociable. We
have fried clams for supper. I am very tired
and retire early.
	Sea Plain, Wednesday, 13. Weather cloudy.
Had fish for breakfast. Never ate fresh salt
water fish before; they are small fish called
porgies. The regular fishing season has not
set in yet, but cousin Joe is fixing his boat and
getting ready, for he is a fisherman. He is one
of the unlucky kind, who never get forehanded; 
if he sells a piece of land he soon sees it re-
sold at enormous profits, and other people
getting rich from his hard earnings. He seems
a sort of happy-go-lucky, and takes the world
easy. His wife is all nerve and ambition; if
things were only reversed—but “so goes the
world.”
	Cousin Joe and Rebecka and Charley go
with me for a walk to the beach; Rebecka says
she has not been there before for two years.
We go to the Life Station and the keeper
shows us through the house. We see the life
boat, the life car and breeches buoy, the lisle
gun and projectile, with the shot line, the
whip line and the hawser, the sand anchor
and the crutch. The sand anchor is a heavy
plank, which is buried three or four feet deep
in the sand; a double rope, called the strap, is
attached to the anchor, and coming up through
the sand has a pulley attached to it. The shot
line is attached to the projectile, which is shot
from the gun; the whip line to the shot line,
and then comes the hawser; the projectile
reaches the ship and is hauled in by the crew;
a tally board is fast to the line; the board is 14
inches long and 4 inches wide, with large
letters printed in English on one side and
French on the other, giving directions what to
do. When all is ready a signal is given, the
life car is swung on the hawser, and the crutch
put under the strap to raise it from the ground;
this is drawn back and forth from the land to 
the ship by means of the whip line. The life
car is very light, shaped like a melon, and so
covered that the sea water cannot dash in.
	It takes eight men to man the station, and
they stay there eight months in the year. They
are disciplined and drilled regularly. The
captain or keeper has $700 a year; the rest are
hired by the month. Everything is kept very
clean and is placed on wheels ready for imme-
diate use. The keeper very kindly shows us
these things and explains their use. He takes


us through the house and up on the lookout,
where we have a fine view of both ocean and
beach. We walk along the sands and pick up
pebbles and shells; it is low tide now, and there
is considerable bank between the water now
and where it washed at our feet yesterday, but
the same restless waves came dashing in with
the same low, murmuring sound, and I feel a
peculiar fascination as I reluctantly turn my
steps to leave it, and think that probably I
shall never come here again.
	Coming back through the woods, we sit down
on the steps of an empty house. It is a sum-
mer residence for some one who brings his
family from a large city to spend the summer
months by the sea-side. There are two of them
just alike. I am told they belong to brothers,
but the season is so backward that people are
not yet seeking their sea-side resorts. We get
back to the house very tired. After dinner
Mr. Newman takes me to call on their married
daughter, Mrs. Gifford, after which we call on
Mrs. Slocum. Cousin Netta Kimball said I
must be sure and visit Aunt Fanny Rogers,
and here I am told that I must be sure to see
Aunt Fanny Rogers before I leave. I hear so
much about her, that I feel quite a curiosity to
see her.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The oldest arm- chair in the world is the
throne of Queen Hatafu, who flourished in
Egypt 1,600 years B. C. It is made of ebony,
and is beautifully carved. It is now in the
British Museum.

	Gov. Eugene Semple, of Washington Terri-
tory, who has earned the blessings of thousands
of women all over the country by signing the
woman suffrage bill, is described by the Golden-
dale Sentinel as “a very genial gentleman, who
might be mistaken for a well-to- do farmer. He
bears the honors of his office easily.”


[Column 1]
	PHEBE PRATT.
	I have never seen a notice of the death of Sister Phebe
Pratt in our little paper; I have been waiting for some one
who was better acquainted with her life to write something
in her behalf.
	She was refict of the late Parley P. Pratt, so well known
in Church History. I only knew her in the latter part of
her life, and am not well enough posted to write about the
many interesting things that transpired in the early settle-
ment of the valleys, of which she bore her part, and of her
travels with her husband in Chili. I always found her
humble and patient, and earnest in the cause of truth, will-
ing to devote her life to the Gospel. She lived with her
only daughter, Mrs Holdaway, from whom she was never
long parted, until by the hand of death.
	She was very anxious to go to the temple and do a
work for her dead. She had made her calculations and
got her recommends and papers ready twice, when in
April she was taken down with pneumonia; she had a long,
hard fit of sickness and a slow convalescence. She was
very frail all summer, but clung tenaciously to the idea of
going to the Temple.
	About the 1st of September she had her arrangements
again made, her clothes ready and her trunks packed for
the journey. She would have started in a day or two,
when one morning as she tried to get up she found her-
self unable to do so, and she never left her bed any more; a
low fever set in, and in a few days she passed away, in the
arms of her daughter.
	She still had faith that she would recover, and her sudden
demise must have been as unexpected to her as to her
friends. Soon after her funeral, which was largely attended
by her friends, her daughter moved to Tintic with her hus-
band, and I had no opportunity of gathering dates as to her
age, or anything else of interest.
	She was about sixty-four years of age, and had spent
much of her life, after Parley’s death, at Spanish Fork,
where she taught school. She moved to Provo about ten
yean ago, when I first became acquainted with her. She

[Column 2]
became associated with the Relief Society of the Third
Ward, and acted for several years in the capacity of Coun-
selor to the President. She resigned her position to go
with her daughter to Juab, from where she moved to Salt
Lake City. She returned to Provo, and was holding the
position of Counselor to the President of the teachers
quorum at the time of her death.
	We feel to offer the following Resolutions of Respect to
her memory:
	
	Whereas, In the providence of an alwise God, He has
seen fit to remove from our presence our beloved sister,
Phebe E. Pratt, and,
	Whereas, Our departed friend and associate was worthy
our highest regard and affection, we  feel that some proper
recognition of her virtues be had among us; therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society,
deeply mourn the loss of such a sister, and will ever hold
her name in affectionate remembrance.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to her family
and friends, and that we try to so order our lives that we
may hope to meet her when our journey of life is over.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread on the re-
cords of the ward, that a copy be given to her bereaved
family and friends, and that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
Exponent. 
							M. J. Tanner, Prest.
							Lavira COLLINS, Sec. 
	P. S. Phebe Soper Pratt was born at Hempstead, Har-
mon, Queens County, New York, July 8, 1823. Was sealed
to Parley P. Pratt in the Nauvoo Temple by John Taylor,
Feb. 8, 1846.
	She went on a mission with her husband, leaving Salt
Lake City March 16, 1851. They sailed from San Fran-
cisco Sept. 5, for Valparaiso, Chili, South America, and
arrived Nov. 8th. Returned to San Francisco on the 21st
of May, 1852, after a tedious passage of seventy-nine days,
having suffered for proper food for forty days on board
ship.
	She died at Provo, Sept. 17, 1887, aged 64 years and
2 months.
	B.P.

	Resolutions of Respect, to the memory of Sister Nettie
Levi Yardley, by the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver City,
Beaver Co., Utah, Jan. 20, 1888.
	Whereas, God in His infinite mercy, has seen fit to take
from our midst our dear friend, sister and fellow-laborer in
the Y. L. M. I. A., and,
	Whereas, Our friend and associate was worthy our high-
est affection and regard, her labors in our Association being
faithfully performed, both as officer and member, we feel
it proper that we make expression of our feelings at the
loss we are called, upon to sustain; therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Beaver City, realize, that in the death of Sister Nettie
Levi Yardley, this Association has sustained a severe loss.
	Resolved, That we shall sadly miss her presence, her
wise counsels and her cheerful spirit in our meetings.
	Resolved, That we, as members of this Association, will
try and profit by the wise counsel she has given us, and
emulate her example in chastity, in cheerfulness, and in the
performance of every duty.
	Resolved, That we extend our sincere sympathy to her
stricken family, especially to her husband and babes, hop-
ing that the comforting Spirit of our Heavenly Father may
be with then to console them in their sad and sudden
affliction.
	Resolved, That a copyof these Resolutions be presented
to her parents and her husband, and that they be sent to
the Utonian and to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
	She was one among our number,
		As child, maiden, wife;
	Was pure, kind and loving
		Through every walk in life.
	From early days of babyhood,
		She, light of home hath proven;
	To her father and her mother
		No care or doubt hath given.

	As sister and companion,
		As wife and mother, too,
	She’s shown qualities of character
		That are seldom brought to view.
	She was lively in her nature, 
		Yet strong in traits of heart,
	Which endeared her to acquaintances,
		Unalloyed by craft or art.

	As a member of our Sabbath School,
		Also the “Mutual Guide,"
	She always filled her mission well,
		Ne’er shrank from duty’s side.
	And as sales-woman or teacher,
		Likewise mother, friend, or wife,
	She was always at her station,
		Has been thus through her life.

	She’s sanctified her mission,
		And nobly borne her cross.
	Has gone to that heavenly region.
		Where’s no sorrow, sin or loss.
	There friends do never separate,
		And hearts are stronger bound,
	True worth is rightly recognized, 
		And falseness never found.

	For her husband and her babies 
		We ask God’s choicest care;
	Also for parents and kindred,
		We extend an earnest prayer.
	The time is short before us
		To work out all that’s good,
	Before we give our record up,		
		Where each one’s understood.

	Be comforted, we say to you,
		For God’s will must be done,
	And Nettie’s with the glorified,
		Also with the Chosen One;
	And you’ll meet her over yonder,
		If worthy to join her there,
	In the kingdom of God’s glory,
		Unsullied by wrong or care.

	E. J. Bennett, President.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.	
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.	

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 16.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1888			NO. 18.


﻿SO LET IT BE.

Ah yes, it must be better so I
The jarring chord too well 1 know,
Into the anthem, deep and grand,
Which my soul strives to understand,
It creeps, and drowns the heavenly strain,
And wakes to life the old, old pain.
And ’tis not fair that I should bring
Its echo in your ears to sing.
I thought that I might draw from you
A little strength, some courage true,
Born of a friendship nobly blest.
Forgive me, friend, God knoweth best,
No more my woes shall worry thee;
I'll ask not e’en thy sympathy.
						—Inter-Ocean-


SOME DAY.

"Some day," we say and turn our eyes
Toward the fair hills of Paradise.

Some day, some time, a sweet new rest
Shall blossom, flower-like, in each breast.

Some time, some day, our eyes shall see
The faces kept in memory.

Some day their hands shall clasp our hands
Just over in the Morning Lands.

Some day our ears shall hear the song
Of triumph over sin and wrong.

Some day, some time, but oh! not yet,
But we will wait and not forget,

That some day all these things shall be,
And rest be given to you and me.

So wait, my friend, though years move slow,
The happy time will come we know.
							—Selected.


WHY STAIN THE SILVER, CROWN?

	Above the calm, fair, holy face
		Of my dear mother shines
	A halo, which to me the worth 
		And wealth of years combines.
	The love and toil of many years,
		Past seventy, and now,
	Deep furrows cross the once round cheek,
		And grace the once smooth brow.

	That halo rich of whitening hair
		Yet daily seems to grow	
	More glorious, as it changes still,
		To sheen of purest snow.
	Ah! let its change be nature’s own.
		No touch of earth’s renown;  T
	Nor seek to bring the gold tint back—
		Stain not my Mother’s Crown !

	There’s now and then a case we find
		Of hair that does not bleach,
	But Why, the Master does not tell.
		And science cannot teach.
	Where thus kind fortune deigns to smile,
		I’d be the last to frown;
	I think such aged ones, by right,
		May wear the youthful crown.

	Or where lay weight of time and toil,
		Of pain, or anxious care,
	The natural covering drops off,
		And leaves the frontal bare;
	For comfort, and for looks as well,
		like donning cloak or gown,
	'Tis highly proper such should wear
		A fitting purchased crown.


But when I see a furrowed face,
	With glossy locks above,
Died richly, golden, brown or black,
	Perchance by hands of love,
I wonder whence the fancy comes,
	And ask, with heart cast down,
"Why dim the honor age should bring?
	Why stain the silver crown?"

My own locks now are turning grey,
	I do not take it hard;
Near forty hears of life on earth
	Should merit such reward.
And when a few more years have passed,
	And faded all the brown,
When I have earned it, let me wear
	My own bright silver crown.
							LULA.


﻿REVERIE.
	I am sitting by the fire alone to-night, and
while gazing into the bright flame and glowing
embers, my mind calls up, one after another,
fond pictures of days that are gone, faces and
forms of beloved ones of the long ago, those
whom I have loved and whose presence blesses
me no more.
	I can see in the misty past myself as a little
child, surrounded by a band of affectionate
brothers and sisters, and the dear parents, whose
loving protection banished every care from my
heart. Oh! the sweet relief, when little troubles
filled my childish soul with woe, to find com-
fort on my dear mother’s lap, to hear the words
Of consolation that fell from her lips. The
troubles of maturer years are not so easily
reconciled.
	How well I remember those happy days in
the old orchard, picking fruit, climbing and
swinging among the trees, and later on, the
pleasant strolls in the'deep grass and fragrant
shade with dear friends of my girlhood, until
each particular spot seems sanctified with
precious memories. Then, too, memory recalls
the playful pranks of hide and seek in the old
rooms, chasing up and down stairs, starting out
of dark corners with mimic fright, and many
other joyous pranks, which the futile mind of
youth produces. What merry voices and gay
laughter used to fill the old home; but those
days passed only too quickly, and separation
from home and friends came only too soon; and
what changes a few short years bring—youth
grown to manhood, and dark and glossy hairs
have turned to grey. The old home is occu-
pied by strangers now, and one by one the
oved ones go to rest, some in ripe old age,
some, alas! in youth and beauty, and others
still in budding childhood, and cares and
sorrow already wrinkle the brow that then
glowed with light heartedness and joy.
	In gazing into the fire my mind is so busy
with the scenes and friends of the past that I
fancy myself among them again. I can hear
the gentle voice of my darling mother in words,
of advice and admonition, and the mingled
tones of merry friends I loved. I turn from
the flame to realize that they are all scattered.
Some are happy, loving parents, while others,
fate has dealt with less kindly, and some, too,
haye wandered from the path of rectitude.
Truly life is a chequered dream, and though
old-time friends have passed away, new ones
are found, little forms and faces take the places
of those who are gone; and the hurrying patter
of little feet, and the sound of childish voices,


require me to live in the present and quit the
past. But I am thankful for the half hour I
have had with my childhood’s home and
friends.	
					AUNT POLLY.
	Salt Lake City, January, 1888.


THE MIND.
	The mind is the intelligent part in man, the 
understanding, the soul. It is a great power
which our Heavenly Father has given us to im-
prove and educate; a store-house in which to 
garner all knowledge gained on this earth, for
future use. The Doctrine and Covenants
teaches us that intelligence is the glory of God,
or, in other words, light and knowledge.
	We come upon the earth in a very helpless
state; our minds are almost a blank; the only
thing we understand is that most ancient of all
language, “the cry.” But see how the mind
of the babe grasps a knowledge of all things
passing around it, both in actions and in words;
see the great amount of knowledge it gains
and brings into active use in the short period
of two years; it can walk, talk, and imitate al-
most every action of its associates, and make 
practical use of its knowledge. It has confi-
dence in the words of older people, and has no
desire to do evil, or to gain riches, but merely
a desire to gain knowledge and become great, 
large and old, as its companions are. When 
the child becomes acquainted with its surround-
ings, its mind is still open to receive intelli-
gence, and if its mind is not occupied in some-
thing useful or not useful at home, so as to be
contented, it will seek for something away
from home, in the street, or wherever it is to
be found, good or bad, it mattereth not to the 
child at this tender age, so it satisfies the crav-
ings of the mind, just as food satisfies the
cravings of the stomach.
	My dear sisters, this is the time to place be-
fore the minds of our children everything good,
noble and of an elevating character, and im-
plant the moral education which is so necessary
for every man and woman to have to direct
the path of their future lives, for as the ball is
directed by the first four feet of its course by
its passage through the gun barrel, so, also, in
most cases, are the actions of men and women
by the training they receive in their youth.
God has told us very plainly that parents hav-
ing children in Zion, or in any of her stakes,
which are organized, who teach them not to un-
derstand the doctrine of repentance, faith in
Christ, the Son of the living God, and of bap-
tism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sins
will be upon the heads of the parents; and they
shall also teach their children to pray and walk
uprightly before the Lord. 
	The moral education is by far the most
necessary; it should be as a motive power to di-
rect all our actions; without it scientific knowl-
edge may prove a curse instead of a blessing.
But add to a moral training a thorough educa-
tion of the arts and sciences, and all other use-
ful knowledge, both mental and physical, then 
we have it in our power to do the greatest
amount of good, and we are approaching
nearer to the perfect man or woman God de-
signed us to be.
	All are interested in their children and their 
welfare, but all do not see nor understand alike.
We should not allow our children to spend


their time in idleness, but keep them constant-
ly employed in something useful, and always
remember fine clothes will wear out, pleasant
sights and scenes will fade from memory, fleet-
ing pleasures will soon be a thing of the past,
but time aud money spent in gaining a useful
education, will build a  foundation of everlast-
ing happiness and profit, which will pay an
honest interest both in time and eternity. It
will bring riches which can never be taken
from us; will make us useful in society, agree-
able companions, and is the only thing gained
upon this earth which we are permitted to take
with us when we die. 	
	We must understand the mind grows by
what it is fed upon, and the brain, the seat of.
the mind, is sustained by the growth of the
body, and the body grows by good food, fresh
air, and work and rest in suitable proportions;
hence, in our endeavors to improve and store
the mind, we should be equally interested in
the health and growth of the body. Sleep is
as necessary to the mind as food, for during the
day the process of tearing down goes on, and
during the night the process of building up
should restore the loss. Children require more
sleep than grown people, as the child has to
build the structure and keep up repairs at the
same time. Children often require more food
than grown people.
	The Lord has given us rules regarding our
food, and among them we find that hot drinks
are not good for man, neither are strong drinks
good for man, and tobacco is not good for man,
but was intended as a medicine for sick cattle.
Thus the Lord, in His mercy, has removed all
doubt on these subjects, and we should be very
diligent as mothers in Israel in teaching these
things in plainness to our children. The fol-
lowing I copy from “The Child’s Health
Primer:”
	“Tobacco is not good for man, but there is a
very good reason why it is worse for boys. If
you were going to build a house, would it be
wise for yoif to put in the stonework of the
cellar something that would make it less strong?
Something in the brickwork or the mortar, the
woodwork or the nails, the walls or the chim-
neys, that would make them weak and tottering
instead of strong and steady? It would be
bad enough if you should repair your house
with poor material, but surely it must be built
in the first place with the best material you
can get.
	“Wise doctors have said that the boy who
used tobacco while he is growing makes every
part of the body less strong than it otherwise
would be. Tobacco, in any form is an enemy
to youth; it stunts the growth, hurts the mind,
and cripples in every way the boy or girl w[--]
uses it.”
	The brain, the seat of thought, is placed
above all the other organs of the body, and is
calculated to control and dictate the passions
and desires. Hence, when we come to the un-
derstanding that such things are injurious to
our bodies, we should listen to the voice of
reason and let them severely alone, governing
our appetites, not letting our appetites govern
us. God designed that the mind,should govern
the body, and that we should control our
thoughts, words, actions, and everything con-
nected with them, and bring them into subjec-
tion to His revealed will. The powers of the
mind are beyond our comprehension; the more
we learn the more we can learn and the faster
and more capable we are to learn.
	We often hear people remark that a certain
young man has finished his education; but he
has merely  learned the rudiments or rules
whereby he is enabled to go on learning as long
as life lasts. None should consider his or her
education finished while life and reason lasts,
for the opportunities for increasing our knowl-
edge will not end with this life, but will extend
into eternity, according to the word of God.

[column 2]
	We, as mothers, should lay a broad founda-
tion upon the rock of revelation for each of
our children to build upon in the future, watch-
ing with all diligence, that nothing be allowed
to creep in to weaken or in any way mar the 
strength or beauty by our neglect.
							D. E. DUDLEY.
	Clifton, Feb. 6, 1888.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEANS OF PRESERVING HEALTH
		AND CURING DISEASE.

A LECTURE DELIVERED BY PRESIDENT J.
	M. HOWELL, IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY
	MEETING, HELD AT CLIFTON, JUNE,
	1887.
	
	Our bodies are made in harmony with certain
laws, and every person should learn them, in
order to regulate his or her actions and duties,
so that health may be preserved, and the powers
of enjoyment and usefulness continue while life
lasts.
	First. It is a law of the bones and muscles
that they should either be used in some kind of
labor, or called into action by social play or
healthful sport. 
	Second. All admit that food is necessary to 
sustain life; and unless it be of a proper kind,
taken in proper quantities and at proper times,
the digestive organs will be deranged and pro-
duce disease.
	Third. Pure air is essential to the full en-
joyment of good health. If you breathe impure
air, you may not immediately feel the effects of
it, yet it is a violation of the physical laws, and 
sooner or later you will pay the penalty in dis-
ease and suffering.
	Fourth. The body also requires sleep; and if
it be not taken at the right time, or with rugu-
larity, we do not feel full refreshment. Let
the youth of Zion be taught that "early to bed
and early to rise" gives them health and all its
attendant blessings. The brain, like other 
organs of the body, should be called into ac-
tion at proper times. The office of the skin is
to remove the impure and worn out particles
of matter from the body; it is very important
that it should be bathed often to keep it clean
and the pores open. This is very important in 
the preservation of health. It is seldom neces-
sary to employ a doctor in the common diseases
we have to contend with, especially in the first 
stages. In all instances of disease it is proper
to rest not only the body, but the mind. The 
patient should cease her physical labor, and 
also withdraw her mind from study and business;
this should be done even if the patient is but
slightly ill. The sick room should be roomy
and as little exposed to outside noise as possible,
as noise and confusion greatly excite the 
nervous system. The sick room should be well
ventilated, and have no unnecessary furniture.
Care should be taken in regulating the light of 
the sick room; a strong light will produce an
increased action of the brain, while a moderate
light will stimulate this organ. Sick persons
should not be disturbed by too many visitors.
It is very important in cold, and in fact all dis-
eases, that the skin be kept clean. If the 120
or 130 ounces of waste, hurtful matter that
passes through the pores of the skin in twenty-
four hours, are not removed by frequent bath-
ing and dry rubbing, it deranges the vessels
that separate this waste matter from the blood,
and thus increases the disease of the inside
organs. Every sick person should breathe
pure air; the purer the blood that courses
through the body, the greater the energy of
the system to remove the disease.
	It requires knowledge and practice to
properly nurse the sick. Woman, from her
constitution and habits, is the natural nurse of
the sick, and in this Church no small portion
of her time is spent in ministering at the bed

[Column 2]
of disease and suffering. No girl should con-
sider her education complete who is not ac-
quainted with the principles of the duties of a
nurse or the laws of health. The nurse, before
commencing to bathe the patient, should pro-
vide herself with water, two towels, a sponge, a 
piece of soft flannel and a sheet. Use tepid or
warm water; apply the wet sponge to one part
of the body at a time; by so doing the danger
of taking cold is lessened; take a dry, soft
towel, wipe the bathed part, and follow this by
a vigorous rubbing with a bath towel; then use
briskly a piece of soft flannel, to remove all
moisture that may exist on the skin, and par-
ticularly between the fingers and underneath
the joints. But before using the sponge to 
bathe, a sheet or fold of cloth should be spread
smoothly over the bed and under the patient,
to prevent the bed clothes on which the patient
is from becoming damp or wet. In this manner
the entire body should be bathed an least once
every twenty-four hours. The practice of
daubing the face and hands with a towel
dipped in hot rum, camphor and vinegar does
not remove the impurities, but causes the skin
to soon feel dry, hard and uncomfortable.
	The diet of the sick should be simple, and
should be prepared in a neat and careful man-
ner. In ventilating the sick room great care
should be taken that the patient does not feel
the draught or current. Bed linen, as well as
that of the body, should be aired every day,
and oftener changed in sickness than in health. 
All clothing, when changed, should be well
dried and warmed by a fire previous to its be-
ing put on the patient or bed. The tempera-
ture of the sick room should be moderate; if
the room is kept too warm, the patient will be
weakened, and is more liable to take cold on
leaving the sick room. The movements of the 
nurse should be gentle and noiseless. Shutting
doors violently, creaking hinges, and all un-
necessary noise should be avoided. Whisper-
ing in the sick chamber is more annoying than
a common tone. The remarks of the nurse to
the patient should always be encouraging.
Never speak of the illness of a friend or a re-
cent death in the sick room.
	The nurse should not confine herself to the
sick room too long at a time. She should eat
her food regularly, have sufficient sleep, and
take exercise daily in the open air. There is
but little danger of contracting disease if the 
nurse attends to the simple laws of health, and
remains not more than six hours at a time in
the sick room. Watchers should always eat
supper before entering the sick room. Alcohol, 
whiskey, tea and coffee should never be used
as a stimulant in times of sickness or in
health.
	Now, in connection with our works, faith
should be exercised also; faith in God our 
Heavenly Father, and in His promises, that if
we will keep the word of wisdom we shall be
healthy and strong, and the destroying angel
shall pass by our doors and will not have
power to take our little ones from us. When 
we have need of physicians send for the Elders
who hold a portion of the holy priesthood,
which is the power to act in the ordinances of
the house of God, and exercise faith in the
promises of God, being humble and prayerful
at all times. Never forget to thank God for 
His mercies on such occasions, and give Him
the glory


﻿Miss Susan B. Anthony had a hearing before
the House Judiciary Committee at Washington,
Tuesday, Feb. 8.
	Mary Howitt who has just died at the age of
eighty-four, was a very small woman with a
very sweet sweet face. She translated Fred-
erika Bremer’s works, and wrote many charm-
ing stories for children. She was born a
Quaker and died a Roman Catholic.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IF A MAN DIE SHALL HE LIVE
			AGAIN?

Yes, I believe in God; therefore endeavor
	To do His holy will from day to day;
And when the time shall come that He shall sever
	This vital spark of life from lump of clay;
Thanks be to Him, I know 'tis not forever
	There still remains a vital spark, a ray
That shall again re-animate this clod,
And in my flesh I know I shall see God.

And wherefore can a man such knowledge gain?
	Doth God reveal it? 'Tis written if we ask
In faith believing, we need not ask in vain,
	And yet how few that undertake the task.
Is not the great jehovah able to make plain
	All things pertaining to this, our mortal frame?
And can He not unite, as well as sever,
And let our souls, in bodies, live forever.
									A. A. TANNER.
Oakley, Idaho, Feb. 7, 1888.


WHEN THE SONG GOES OUT OF
				YOUR LIFE.

	When the song’s gone out of your life, you can’t start
another while it’s a-ringing in your ears, but it’s best to
have a bit of silence, and out o’ that may be, a psalm'll
come by-and-by.—Edward Garrett,

		When the song’s gone out of your life,
			That you thought would last to the end;
		That first sweet song of the heart,
			That no after days can lend;
		The song of the birds to the trees,
			The song of the wind to the flowers,
		The song that the heart sings low to itself
			When it wakes in life’s morning hours:

		"You can start no other song,"
			Not even a tremulous note
		Will falter forth on the empty air,
			It dies in your aching throat.
		It is all in vain that you try,
			For the spirit of song has fled—
		The nightingale sings no more to the rose
			When the beautiful flower is dead.

		So let silence softly fall
			On the bruised heart’s quivering strings;
		Perhaps from the loss of all you may learn
			The song that the seraph sings;
		A grand and glorious psalm,	
			That will tremble, and rise, and thrill
		And fill your breast with its grateful rest,
			And its lonely warnings still.


INTERESTING PARTY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Marion, Idaho; is a part of the country better
known as Goose Creek. Our Society has been
organized about a year, before which time we
were a branch of the Oakley Society. We
have many good times together, and excellently
well attended meetings; we take the Exponent,
and reading from its columns forms a feature
of our gatherings.
	After introducing ourselves, we wish to tell
you, as briefly as possible, of a happy time we
recently enjoyed, the occasion being that of a
surprise party given Sister Susan K. Greene,
with whom many of your readers are well ac-
quainted.
	At a little before noon sixteen members of
the Relief Society alighted from their vehicles
at Sister Greene’s door, laden with lunch bas-
kets and cheery smiles.
	After the greetings were over, and all seated,
a hymn was sung. Prayer by Sister Clara
Smith, followed by singing, alter which the
following poem was read:		

		LINES
 ADDRESSED TO SISTER SUSAN, K.. GREENE, AT A
	SURPRISE PARTY. 
With joy we greet you, sister dear;
Respect and love have brought us here; 
[column 2]
With joy we come to give you cheer,	
   And show you our affection.

Your faith, which has all doubt defied,
Your many, many charms beside;	
You whom age has beautified,
   Command our close attention. 
	
That faith, through many trials, firm, 
Through it you do His will discern;
Through it a glory you will earn,
   E'en in the resurrection. 	

Though feeble now—your locks are gray—
No longer young, nor blithe, nor gay,
Yet to your children you're a ray
   Of daily consolation.

Their youthful joys you used to share,
In all their troubles you were there;
To cherish you is now their care,
   Yes, by their true devotion.

And friends to you now truer stand,
Yes, far and near, throughout the land, 
They hold to you a helping hand,
   And show appreciation.

Yet, though the body now is old,
The spirit's age has not been told;
'Twill soar, when death its wings unfold
   Unto its destination.

Unto its Father it will fly,
To dwell with Him in courts on high;
O, sweet the thought of by-and-by,
   When such will be your station.

And dear ones there will gather round,
Then friends long parted will be found;
O, sweet, so sweet will be the sound
   Of welcome salutation.

Shall we, O, sister dear, shall we
Among these blessed chosen be?
Shall we be favored and meet thee?
   It is for our selection.

That all your days may hence be peace,
That your good works may never cease,
And that your blessings may increase,
   Is the prayer of us your sisters. 
			LOUISA PICKETT,
		In behalf of the Relief Society.

	After the reading, the sisters presented Sister
Greene with a token of their love and appre-
ciation in the tangible form of a purse and its
contents.	
	Our President, Sister Fannie Gorringe, made
a few brief remarks bearing on the occasion of
our visit there.
	Sister Greene expressed her thanks to the
sisters for their remembrance, and the pleasure
afforded by their visit; also favored them with
her strong testimony of the truth, some inci-
dents of her experience, and much good coun-
sel and teaching, which we are always pleased
of having the opportunity to receive from one
so well qualified for giving instruction.
	Appropriate remarks followed by Sisters
Melissa Homer, Alice Tohnan, Clara Smith,
Annie Clark, Sarah E. Bates, Hattie Whitney
and Lavenia Bates. Another hymn was sung,
after which the tables were set, and all partook
of a bounteous repast.
	After spending an agreeable hour or so, a
closing hymn was sung, and the gathering
closed with prayer by Sister Greene. We de-
parted for our homes, each one feeling they had
spent a day long to be remembered.
		Truly your sisters,
			FANNIE GORRINGE, Prest.
			LOUSIA PICKETT, Sec.
	Marion, Idaho, Eeb. 6, 1888.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
				WOMEN.
	The programme of the International Council
of women to be held at Washington, D. C.,
from March 25 to April 1, 1888, is as follows:


﻿Saturday, March 24, 9 to 11 p.m.—Public
Reception.	
	Sunday, March 25, 2 p.m.—Invocation, Rev.
A. B. Blackwell. Sermon, Rev. Annie H.
Shaw.
	Monday, March 26, 10 a.m.—Prayer, Rev
A. B. Blackwell. Address, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton. 7.30 p.m.—Education. 
	Tuesday, March 27,10 a.m.—Philanthropies.
7.30	p.m.—Temperance.
	Wednesday, March 28,10 a.m.—Industries.
7.30	p.m.—Legal Conditions.
	Thursday, March 29,10 a. m.—Foreign Re-
ports. 7.30 p. m.—Professions and Organiza-
tions.
	Friday, March 30,10 a. m.—Woman Alone;
White Cross, etc. 7.30 p. m.—Political Con-
ditions.
	Saturday, March 31, a. m.—Pioneer Con-
ference. 7.30 p. m.—Political Conditions
(continued).
	Sunday, April 1,2 p.m.—Devotional Service,
Rev. Antoinette B. Blackwell, and others. 7.
30 p.m.—Rev. Olympia Brown, Mrs. Z. G.
Wallace. Closing Address, Mrs. Stanton.
	Most of the speakers for this occasion have
been heard from. It is hoped to give a list
with the names of those making the principal
addresses, next week. The present outlook
promises that this will be the most truly repre-
sentative gathering of women ever held.  
				RACHEL G. FOSTER,
			Sec. Com. of Arrangements.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.

			AN APPEAL.

READ THIS CAREFULLY, ACT UPON IT AND
		HAND IT TO YOUR FRIENDS.

	An International Council of Women, called
by the National Woman Suffrage Association,
will be held in Washington, D. C., opening
March 26, closing April 1, 1888. The objects
and character of the Council are indicated in
the accompanying call. It will be by far the
most important and influential gathering of
women that the world has ever seen.
	American women, especially those who sym-
pathize with contemporaneous movements for
the improvement of woman’s position in the
State, the Church and the Home, and in educa-
tional and industrial life, should not fail to
aid in insuring the complete success of this
great Internation Council. The expenses of
conducting the Council will be in proportion
to its magnitude and importance. The Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association assumes
the responsibility of the entertainment, during
the Council, of all accredited delegates from
American and Foreign organizations. To pro-
vide for these and for other necessary, expenses,
we expect from our friends more than their
usual liberality. Remember that no persons
have contributed more to the cause of woman’s
advancement than those who have given to it
their time and strength. If you are not so
situated that you can help by writing, by
speaking, or by active work, it is all the more
incumbent upon you to aid in the way that is
within your power, viz., by a contribution of
money. Will you not assist to the extent of
your ability? Money or pledges of large or
small amounts will be most acceptable.
	Persons may make themselves members of
the National Woman Suffrage Association, by
the payment of one dollar; all who do this will
be entitled to the full pamphlet report of the
procedings of the Council.
	All contributions and membership fees
should be sent to the Treasurer, Mrs. Jane H.
Spofforo, Riggs House, Washington, D. C., or
to the Chairman of the Special Finance Com-
mittee, Susan B. Anthony; Rochester, N. Y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	 Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	FFBRUARY 15,1888.


[column 1]
    FORTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
	 WOMAN SUFFRAGE MOVE-
				MENT.
	The International Council, which will be held
next month in Washington, D. C., and of which
we have already published several notices, is to be
a more elaborate sort of Jubilee for women than
was at first anticipated, even by the ladies who
planned the campaign. Miss Susan B. Anthony
has been interviewed by Washington reporters,
and has spoken quite wittily upon the subject.
	Dear Miss Anthony, whom all suffragists love
very dearly, has the most ready wit at her com-
mand, and reporters or interrogaters either never
get the best of her. We have always noticed,
whether on the platform or in the reception or
drawing-room, she always has an answer ready
for every satirist, and so cool and collected as to
preserve her womanly dignity under the most
trying circumstances Her courage and equan-
imity are unsurpassed. Such women as Miss
Anthony are rare, and in genuine originality she
equals any of the leaders in the suffrage cause.
Mrs. Stanton and Lucy Stone are, perhaps, more
motherly in their views and thoughts, but Miss
Anthony is a leader born, and carries both the
mothers and daughters along with her, fearlessly,
independently and without hesitation. Young
women look up to her as an oracle almost, and
her very manner gives prestige to her work. No
one who has ever seen Miss Anthony can help
noticing her peculiar face and figure, so positive
in its character, so remarkable in its outline; and
so emphatic is she in her declaration of right, and
denunciation of wrong, that she cannot fail to
impress her convictions upon the public.
	We venture to say this movement will forward
the suffrage for women that has been delayed al-
most everywhere for forty years, and that States
and Territories will, with renewed energy, take
up the subject and accomplish something credit-
able in favor of the ballot for women. The asso-
ciations to be represented are to be mostly of a
national character. Miss Anthony said to a Wash-
ington reporter, “When first we thought of hold
ing this woman’s jubilee none of us imagined we
should find more than half a dozen Nationally
organized associations of women, and the Secre-
tary tells me we have sent out to associations
nearly forty official invitations.”
	The question then asked Miss Anthony was.
“Have you invited only nationally organized bodies
of women?” Miss Anthony’s reply was, “That
has been our rule so far as invitations are con-
cerned. Besides these, we have invited a number
of distinguished women to speak on various kinds
of unorganized work. For instance take the various
professions. We have women physicians, lawyers
ministers, publishers, editors. No associations
of women in these lines of work exist, yet they
must be heard of at our council if we wish to
make it anything approaching a complete picture
of what women have done and are doing. So we
[column 2]
have invited women who are acquainted from
practice with these professions.” From this one
may gather a little what the nature of the Council
will be.
	By letter from Mrs. Spofford, the Treasurer, we
learn that the price for the use of Albaugh’s Opera
House will be $1,800, but she says, “The largest
churches here will not hold the people that come
to our regular meetings.”
	The programme, of the International Counci
was not quite complete at the latest information
we received, but among the delegates from nation-
ally organized bodies of women in this country
are Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Mrs. Lucy Stone,
Miss Francis Willard, Mrs. Caroline Buell, Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe, Miss Mary F. Eastman and
Miss Clara Barton. The Western Association of
Collegiate Alumnae send their President, the
eminent microscopist of the Michigan University,
Louise Reed Stowell. Mrs. Frazier will represent
the Moral Education Society. Mrs. Laura Mc-
Neir, the ladies of the G. A. R. Rev. Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, the first woman ordained to the
ministry, will be present; also Rev. Anna Shaw,
the only ordained Methodist women. Pendita
Ramabai will speak for the women of India. Fin-
land, Denmark and Sweden are to send representa-
tives. France has elected Madame Bagelot of
Paris as a delegate,and England sends to the
Council Miss Helen Taylor, step daughter of
John Stuart Mill. Miss Henrietta Muller, a mem-
ber of the London school board, will come to the
Council. and also Mrs. Alice Scratcherd, a promi-
nent woman suffragist in  England, Helen
Campbell, author of the “Prisoners of Poverty,”
who, on account of her work in England, will not
be able to attend in person, will send a paper,
which will be read, as also a report by Fanny
Zampini Salazaro of Rome. This lady is editor 
of the Review of the interests of women pub- I
lished in Rome, and will write upon the work of
Italian women.
	This altogether new movement on the part of
tbe N. W. S. A. is distinctive in itself, and will
do more towards making woman suffrage popular
than any work that has yet been done, or any
convention that has been called. It is bringing
together in a General Assembly the brightest and
ablest leaders, and the most intellectual women of
the age that are before the public. It is an inspira-
tion in the advancement of the cause of woman
that will promote all the several interests of the
great subjects under consideration by both men
and women of progressive thought.
	Industrial enterprises that will give employment
to woman and to girls, by which they can gain a
livlihood in the over-crowded cities of the old
and new world, is one of the most important mat-
ters to be hoped for from the ballot in the hands
of women, or from the powerful influence of a
popular body of interested workers in this direc-
tion. That much can be done in suppressing vice
by industry there is little doubt. When pure-
minded women move earnestly and in unity upon
some of these momentous questions at issue, and
when noble, lion-hearted men are willing to join
harmoniously in these great and high en-
deavors for the bettering of the condition of
those who are powerless to lift themselves, in-
stead of buying votes for whiskey then there will
be something permanent accomplished. Mean-
time let us hope that Congress will treat no other
class of women as its members have treated
“Mormon” women after they had been given the
ballot, and voted for seventeen years, to
take it away without cause or provocation
of any kind and only this frivolous pre-
sumption, “We have the power and you can’t help
yourselves.’
	The worst excuse for not granting suffrage to
other women is that “Mormon” women voted a
“Mormon” tictket. “It was quoted as 
trong argument why none of the women in
[column 3]
the United States should be permitted to vote.”
This does seem ridiculous but nevertheless the
statement is published in the papers.


AN INTERESTING VISIT.

	On the 17th day of October, 1887, Sister M.
Isabella Horne left this city on a visiting tour to
her friends at a distance, meeting her husband in
Ogden, who joined her in the journey. The same
evening, at 7 p.m., they took the Union Pacific
train for San Francisco, and arrived there after a
pleasant journey of two days. They stopped at
the well-known Russ House, and spent a little
time in sight seeing in that famous Ocean city.
The remained only a few days, however, when
they resumed their journey down into Southern
California to visit Bro. Horne’s Sister, Mrs. Re-
becca Mallory, who resides in Hollister, in San
Benito Co., a very handsome little town. The
view from the railway in traveling from San Fran-
cisco down was very fine, they thought, and it
made the trip very enjoyable; the great profusion
of beautiful flowers, pyramids of them, even, was
to them, as it is to all on their first visit, almost
marvelous. Bro. and Sister Horne visited at
Hollister two weeks; meantime the birthday of
Mrs. Mallory occurred; they enjoyed a very pleas-
ant time with the friends,and acquaintances of the
Mallory family.
	Around and in the counties of San Benito and
Santa Clara are large farming districts; farms
from one hundred to a thousand, and from ten to
twenty thousand acres, these being the old Mexi-
can land grants. These lands are mostly still held
by the Mexicans, and they lease the farms to men
who sub-lease; and the farming population depend
so much upon rain in the fall of the year, and when
that fails there is a failure of crops, that they are
in much the same condition as the Irish peasantry.
One Spanish lady, Sister Horne was creditably in-
formed, owned an immense track of land, which
yielded recently 40,000 bushels of wheat. Two
young Spanish ladies own one of the largest of
these farms, with an elegant house and grounds,
where they visit once or twice a year, and hold
parties, etc. Sister Horne was much interested
in these matters, as she is in industries of all
kinds, agricultural or otherwise, especially those
pertaining to women.
	When leaving Hollister, Bro. and Sister Horne
could not purchase tickets on the Southern Pacific
Railroad at that place, but went on to San Jose, a
short distance away,and took the railway train. Be-
fore reaching Los Angelos on this railway route,
there is a tunnel a mile and a half long through
which the train passes, and as Bro. and Sister
Horne came westward ahead of railroads, this
was a novelty to them. Further on, towards Mari-
copa, in Arizona, the country is very desolate in-
deed. They reached Maricopa station at two
o’clock in the morning, stayed there until daylight,
then took the train for Tempe, where they were
met by their eldest son, Henry, whom they had not
seen for several years. From there they drove to
his farm, a distance of nine miles, arriving at Mesa
his place of residence, on the evening of the 19th
of November. Bro. Horne laughingly remarked
to his daughter-in-law, that Sister Horne ought to
have sent word ahead that the next day would be
her birthday and had the turkeys ready. The
daughter replied that weuld be easily done, and
accordingly arrangements were made, and on the
following day they spent a very agreeable time in
visiting with friends of former days, and many
hearty greetings were interchanged, and pleasant
renewals of old friendships, as well as feasting
upon turkeys and other luxuries.
	Sister Horne met with the Relief Society in
Mesa on Thursday, Dec. first, in a special meeting.
Sister Hakes, the local President, presided. It
was a very full meeting, and an excellent spirit
prevailed. Most of the time was occupied by Sis-


ter Horne in giving instruction to the sisters, in
regard to the duties pertaining to the Relief So-
ciety in all its various departments of work. Sister
Horne was the first of the leading sisters from the
centre Stake of Zion who had visited them, and of 
course they were all anxious to see and hear her.
She also met with the R. S. in their teacher’s
meeting on the 5th of December, and gave them
much good counsel. Sisters Hakes and McDonald
also addressed the meeting in an interesting man-
ner, and all seemed to enjoy the visit of Sister
Horne and to regret her short stay among them.
On Thursday, the 8th of December, Sister Horne
went over to Jonesville, now called Lehi, situated
four miles from Mesa, to attend a meeting called
specially for her to speak to the sisters there.
Sister Lizzie McDonald presided. There were a
goodly number of sisters present, and an excellent
time enjoyed.
	Thursday, the 15th, went with some of the sis
ters from Mesa to meet with the Relief Society at
Alma, two miles distant, and there, as every where
she went, they had an excellent meeting, good at-
tendance and a good spirit.
	While away, and journeying here and there,
Sister Horne sought every opportunity to do good
among the sisters, and in these remote districts
they are greatly in need of information as well as
strength and encouragement. At some of the
meetings Sister Horne attended, two members of
the Presidency of the Stake-Brothers McDonald
and Robson—were present, and expressed them-
selves as much pleased with her visit and instruc-
tions.  
	On Monday, Jan. 2nd, 1888, there was a New
Year’s party at the residence of Elder Henry
Horne, in honor of the visit of the father and
mother, Bro. and Sister Horne of this city, and
the Presidency of the Stake and many others were
invited, and they enjoyed a most delightful evening
in conversation and such entertainment as was
most suited to such a happy occasion.
	On Tuesday afternoon, Jan. 3rd, Bro. and Sister
Horne left Mesa and went over to St. David’s, in
Cochise Co., where they visited two of their grand-
children, who are married and settled at that place.
On Sunday evening following, at 7 o’clock, Sister
Horne met with a special meeting of the Relief
Society, called on her account, the local President,
Sister Maria McRae, presiding. It was a very
large gathering of both brethren and sisters.
	Bro. and Sister Horneunexpectediy met with
many old friends at Mesa City and St. David’s.
From the latter place they drove over to Benson,
where they were to take the train, but being be-
hind time stayed at the Hotel all night, where
Sister Horne held quite an interesting conversa-
tion with some ladies. She told her husband she
didn’t mind waiting for the train, as she had the
chance of talking with these ladies upon our re-
ligion. We will give the interview in Sister
Horne’s own words, as she related it after her re-
turn home.
	“The ladies asked me which way I was travel
ing? I told them we were on our way to Salt Lake
City. One of them inquired if we were of the
Mormon faith? I answered in the affirmative.
That led to some questions, which gave me an op-
portunity of preaching the Gospel to them and
bearing my testimony to the truth. I explained
the first principles of our faith, which are, faith
in God and in His Son Jesus Christ, then repent-
ance for sin, next baptism by immersion for the
remission of sins, then the laying on of hands by
one having authority, for the gift of the
Holy Ghost; quoting Scripture to prove that
we taught the same doctrine that our Savior
and the Apostles taught in their day. I ex-
plained to them the atonement of Christ for
original sin, which took away from us Adam’s
transgression; but that we were account-
able and would have to answer for our own sins
and our works, whether.they were good or evil;

[Column 2]
the Scriptures say every one will be judged and
rewarded or condemned according to the deeds
done in the body. I explained to them the order
of celestial marriage, which they wished to hear
about. I told them it was a pure and holy princi-
ple of our religion, which we knew to be as true
as any other principle of our faith; but that no one
was forced or coerced into obeying; but our re-
ligious convictions caused us to accept it and to
live in the order of plural marriage. I informed
these ladies that I knew families in Salt Lake City,
not of our faith, who had more trouble in their
families, than there was in the patriarchal order of
marriage, or where there was a plurality of wives
among our people. I explained to them that all
were not good who had a name in our Church, and
referred them to our Savior, who taught His disci-
ples that the Gospel was like unto a fish-net cast
into the sea, that gathered of all kinds; but by
and bye, said I, there will be a separation. Our
doctrine, I told them, did not sanction evil-doing
in anyone. To these ladies I bore a very strong
testimony to the truth, refuting the many false re-
ports that are circulated about our people; as I
expect to be judged for my words and acts, I
spoke earnestly and fearlessly, for I knew whereof
I testified, and felt this was an opportunity to be
improved. I can only give a short sketch of our
conversation, but it proved to them my sincerity
and earnestness. They seemed much interested
in my testimony, one of them particularly asking
many questions, which I answered according to
facts and principles. She said to me that I had
enlightened her very much on the Scriptures, more
than she had ever expected to understand. Our
conversation lasted about two hours, and when I
arose to retire, they bade me good night, saying,
I wish every one was as much interested in the
religion they profess as you are. I replied that I
loved my religion, as it was so broad and compre-
hensive, and that we were willing to suffer persecu
tion for the Gospel’s sake, knowing that we shall
be blest in time and in eternity, and receive eter-
nal life if we are faithful in the kingdom of God.
	“The following day we left Benson by train,
coming a very tedious route, changing cars five
times before we reached the D. & R. G. At La
Junta we met with Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and two little
girls, and traveled with her the remainder of the
journey home, which was very pleasant for us
both, and an agreeable surprise.
	“After we left Pueblo on the D. & R. G. train,
a gentleman passenger, who found I was going to
Salt Lake, introduced himself to me by saying he
had purchased property near the Jordan river, and
should make that place his future home. We
afterwards drifted into a conversation on religion.
He informed me that he was a Baptist by profes-
sion. I told him he would find we were not the
people we were represented to be, and that we
believed in being at peace with all mankind. I
explained to fiim the first principles of our religion,
quoting Scripture to prove to him it was the same
doctrine taught by Christ and His Apostles. I
said to him, we are accused of every kind of evil,
even the crime of murder, which are false accusa-
tions, as we know that a murderer never can be
forgiven in this world nor in the world to come.
	“He said he begged to differ with me, as he
believed all sin would be forgiven if the person
repented. I referred him to the saying of the
Savior, that a murderer hath not eternal
life abiding in him; but every man would
be judged by his works. I alluded to the mission
of our Savior while His body laid in the tomb,
which was to preach to the spirits in prison, that
were disobedient in the days o Noah, while the
ark was preparing; and that the Savior unlocked
the prison doors and set the captives free; they
had paid the debt of their disobedience, and
would be judged according to men in the flesh.. I
told him how the Apostle Paul explained the
condition of the people after the judgment; that

[Column 3]
there was one glory of the sun, another glory of
the moon, another of the star, and as one star
differeth from another in glory, so, also, is the
resurrection of the dead. All do not go to one
place, as the majority of the religious people of
to-day believe. The Savior said all manner of
sin would be forgiven except the shedding of inno-
cent blood, or denying the Holy Ghost, or .the
atonement of Christ, for that would crucify the
Man of God afresh and put him to an open
shame.
	This is but a brief synopsis of our conversa-
tion. We reached home on Saturday evening,
Jan. 14, after an absence of three months, having
journeyed over three thousand miles. We enjoyed
the visits and sight-seeing, but returned with the
same feeling as the poet who wrote,
	" ‘There is no place like home. ’ "


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿	OUR HOLIDAYS IN CANADA.

	No matter where the Saints are—in the sunny
South or snowy North—you may depend on their
being as cheerful and happy as their circumstances
will permit.  
	Such being the case with us, I feel a desire for
the loved kindred and friends at home to know—
as at this season of the year our hearts turn with 
greater fondness to "our very own"—how their
absent, but not forgotten friends in Canada spent
their holidays.
	Christmas Eve found us—all but two sweet
mamas and their very new little Canadians—
gathered at the residence of President Card.  In 
the kitchen were our fifty children, big and little;
the front room was reserved for their parents, and
the centre room was devoted to a large Christmas
Tree and our old-time friend, Santa Claus, who
was fat, jolly, and saucy as ever.  
	The tree bore fruit of a "home made" nature, as
trees ought, and from its well laden boughs was
seen some little token of remembrance for all, for 
Santa had engaged the willing and nimble fingers
of our Relief Society and Young Ladies' Associa-
tions to assist him,as his cash was low, though
his will was good,for his trip from Utah had
nearly exhausted his exchequer for this year, but 
knowing how happily surprised our children 
would be with his attentions in our new home, he
set merrily to work.  
	Hush! don't you hear a horn?  Suddenly the
doors fly open; all is silent.  A short prayer of 
praise and thankfulness, and the children march
in, gazing on the brilliant tree, and their much
talked of, but seldom seen, "Santa Claus."  Little
Joseph, with his arms around his brother,s neck,
says, "I almost scart," but his fears vanish when
he receives his little home made wagon, and soon 
they are all supplied—balls, dolls, work-bags
tidies, etc., etc., are distributed, with sweetmeats
in little tastie lace stockings, mittens and socks, 
till such a munching, laughing, joking crowd as
our darlings present is enough to make the hearts
of the parents glad, and old Santa sweat, which
he did long before the tree was divested of its
fruit.  But at last the pleasant task is ended, the 
tree put to one side, the room cleared, and our 
young folks dance; the little ones play games and 
frolic in the kitchen, while their elders repair to 
the sitting room, and pass a delightful evening, 
singing, reciting, chatting, and talking over the 
goodness of God to us while strangers in a strange
land.  No round dancing amongst the young, no 
rudeness amongst the children, no disunion
amongst the parents, and thus ends the first never-
to-be-forgotten Christmas Eve in Canada, which
all declare to have been most enjoyable.  
	Sunday finds us gathered in Sunday School and
meeting, after which families meet in their own 
snug homes and partake of the bounties of the


earth, such as prarie chickens, plum pudding, etc.,
etc. In our nest are gathered the brethren who
have no families here; they help us demolish the
fine turkey sent us from MacLeod by Capt. Allen,
the Custom House Inspector.
	New Year's day was given to the service of the
Lord, and some of us invited in a few friends after
meeting, and enjoyed ourselves in quiet chat till
evening meeting.
	On the 7th our Young Men’s and Young Ladies’
Associations gave an excellent entertainment,
Bro. G. L. Farrell having charge of the music.
Sister Zina of the recitations, dialogues, etc., and
Bro. G. L. Robinson general manager. A num-
ber of our friendly neighbors were invited, and
one and all were enthusiastic in their praise of
our humble efforts to entertain them.
	I will conclude by telling you of our happy dis-
appointment over our winter, which has been very
mild, so far, only a few cold days at a time, and
snow only five or six inches deep. The health of
our colony is excellent, and all rejoice in freedom
and peace, and the everlasting Gospel.
									RENO.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿COMMENDATION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	May God bless Aunt Ruth for her able article
 in the EXPONENT of January 15th, 1888.  I hope
she may live long to advance such indispensible
and correct truths as she there disseminates.
	How can people of thought, that can gain in-
formation of Utah and its doings, denounce the
women thereof as ignorant and down-trodden? I
wish they would read Aunt Ruth's appeal, for
therein is food for reflection for both old and
young; its sentiments are high-souled and convinc-
ing, particularly to unbiased minds; there are 
principles referred to which would do all good to
profit by.  Nothing short of inspiration, coupled
with a knowledge of the true Gospel and its work-
ings, could have aided her in so ably defining and
treating upon such magnanimous and important
subjects.
	I am truly thankful I can abundantly testify to
and endorse her remarks, being privileged to
drink at the same pure fountain, which our Father
offers to all liberally who are athirst.  Though I 
am not so richly endowed as Ruth, yet we have
the blessed assurance that those who seek shall 
find.  There is a field of information in her state-
ments, very clearly and logically shown; all im-
partial readers can understand and coincide
with the correctness of her views. I hope may
will take a lesson by the sound principles so 
tersely yet beautifully explained.  I would that
every line was riveted upon my memory, as I am
desirous of gaining from such wise and compre-
hensive teachings.  May we search our hearts
and purge there from all obnoxious and corrupting
weeds. 
	I also very much appreciated the editorial in the 
same issue upon the Woman Suffrage movement
I feel to stand beside such noble women and sus-
tain them by my faith and untiring efforts in de-
fense of right and justice.  Their hearts are loyal
to womankind, and may they meet with encourage
ment and be successful. 
	I pray that my sisters may not slacken their
hands, but gain strength and fortitude to accom-
plish all that is required of them in these truly the
latter days, that the Holy Spirit may be granted us
to discern between truth and error.
	May God speed the day when our brethren may 
enjoy immunity from their enemies, when 
righteousness shall rule, and those who oppose
the laws of Cod be brought to a full sense of their
own condition. 
				Yours truly,
								M. A. TILL.
	Feb. 13, 1888.


﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
		BEAR LAKE SRAKE.
	The Bear Lake Stake Relief Society held a
conference at Paris, Jan. 14th and 15th, 1888.
Meeting commenced at 10 a.m., Julia P. Lind-
say presiding. Singing. Prayer by Elder J.
E. Hart. Singing. Minutes of the last con-
ference read and accepted. Present on the
stand, Prest. Julia P. Lindsay and Counselors
E. Collings and L. M. Hart; the Stake Presi-
dency of Y. L. and P. A. were also present,
Presidents Budge, Hart and many other
brethren.	
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay made some opening
remarks.
	The presidents of the different wards gave
verbal reports, showing that each Society was
in a good condition, and that all were trying to
do the will of the Lord.
	Coun. E. Collings made some excellent re-
marks; urged the sisters to look after the poor.
	Bro. Athey made a few appropriate remarks.
	Coun. L. M. Hart spoke on the great influ-
ence the mothers and sisters have in their
homes; said,  "As we have commenced another
year, let us renew our energies and improve
ourselves.”
	Conference adjourned until Sunday at 2 p.m.
Saturday afternoon was occupied by the Prim-
aries, Sunday morning by the Y. L. M. I. A.
Singing, “Lord dismiss us,” etc. Benediction 
by Bishop West.	
	Afternoon session: Conference, opened with 
singing and prayer. The statistical and finan-
cial reports were read.	
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay said, “When, we ad- 
dress a congregation we should be influenced 
by the Spirit of the Lord, so that we may be
able to advance correct principles.” Urged the
sisters to look after the sick and poor in our
midst. Said the secretaries should understand
their duty, that correct accounts may be kept.
Spoke very impressively on educating the
young people, as they will have to hold respon-
sible positions. Spoke on the amiable qualities
of our deceased Secretary, Sister E. Pugmire,
and recommended her daughter; Sister L. Rich,
as being capable of holding this position. She
was then chosen and set apart as Stake Secre-
tary.
	Coun. E. Collings and L. M. Hart gave some
good instructions.	
	Prest. Budge spoke very encouragingly to
the sisters; approved of their labors very much;
thought we should try to become a more self-
sustaining people.				
	Conference adjourned for six months. Sing-
ing. Benediction by J. Hart.
			LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec. of Stake.

			SAMPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference held Dec. 10th,
1887, in the meeting house at Mt. Pleasant.
Opened with singing. Prayer by Bro. Reynolds.
Continued with singing.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde opened the meeting and
addressed the congregation assembled. Felt
very much impressed about the departure of
our beloved sister and co-worker, E. R. Snow
Smith; said we have no reason to mourn her
loss, her works and her intelligence will follow
her, and will also live after her here. Spoke
about the prophecies being fulfilled; Joseph
Smith had spoken of these days. Said the first
duty of the Relief Society was to look after
the sick and poor, as we had been taught by
our departed “Sister Eliza;” she always had a
love for the sisters of Sanpete, and placed them
in excellence and diligence next to the sisters
of Box Elder Stake. “We are often called to
mourn about the evils that happen among us.
Referred to a circumstance that happened in
our county. Urged the parents to look well
after their children, and above all things, as

[Column Two]

actions speak louder than words, show to them
a good example.
	Her Counselor, Sarah Peterson, from Eph-
raim, felt glad and thankful that she was
united in the same faith, and had come here
with the same feeling, to be instructed. "We
live in a day when we must draw nearer to our
God. I thought, when Sister Hyde spoke
about the teaching of our children, that we
must teach them to be honest and true; often
little school-children will bring articles home
that they claim to have found, but parents
should be particular to have them return such
things; by so doing we can form in them a
habit of truthfulness; but we must ourselves
show a good example to our children.” Gave
a good report from the Ephraim Wards; said
the sick and the poor were well looked after.
	Sister M. P. Madsen felt much edified in the
instructions given; we should treasure it up
aud put it into every day practice. Spoke
about the privilege of going to the Temple, and
made other good remarks.
	Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt lake City, had
come from Moroni the same morning. Said
she felt greatly disappointed, as she had hoped
to have Sister Zina Young and Sister Minerva
Snow with her, but circumstances were such
that she had to come without them. Sister
Young and Sister Snow sent their love to the
sisters of Sanpete. Said she met with the
sisters of Moroni the day before, and also with
the Primary; noticed a great improvement in
the children in their exercises. Sister Wells
told us as much as she could of Sister Eliza’s
sickness and death. Said how beautiful she
was in her coffin; looked more like a bride than
one dead; referred to the interesting remarks
made at her funeral; thought she had never at-
tended a funeral where there was so much good 
said of a person, but not too much good could
he said of Sister Eliza. Spoke of the Hospital;
thought it should be sustained, as if was an
institution for the benefit of the afflicted.
	Sister Pritchet, of Fairview, reported her
ward; said the sisters were willing to respond to
every call.	
	Sister Acord, of Spring City, represented
her ward; said a portion of the sisters are al-
ways on hand, but another portion were sloth-
ful and neglectful. “We must try to the best
of our ability to live nearer unto the Lord,
that we may earn the crown that is in store for
the faithful.”
	Bishop Irons, of Moroni, found a great help
in the Relief Society. Said, "Mothers, set a
good example before your children, and the
Lord will take note of it. The sisters are doing
well;" he never had called upon the Society but
they had responded to the call.
	Prest. Peterson said he liked to meet with the
sisters. “We live in an important time; the
angel Moroni spoke about these days; the
prophecies are going to be fulfilled.” He re-
ferred to the 33rd chapter of Isaiah speaking
about this time. Was thankful that we could
worship a God with body, parts and passions, a
God which the Christian world know not of
and do not believe in.
	Prest Hyde made closing remarks, and con-
ference adjourned until the second Saturday in
March. Singing, “O, my Father" etc. Bene-
diction by Bishop Lund.
			Y. L. M. I. A.
	(Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake, held at Mt.
Pleasant, Dec. 10, 1887, Miss Helen Armstrong
presiding.)
	(Miss Olive Lowrey) represented the Associa-
tion of Manti as being in a good condition; said
some were very diligent, and were doing their
utmost to forward the work, while others were
negligent. “Youth is the time for study, and
we will be held responsible by the great Judge
for the way the time allotted to us is spent, and


also for the cultivation of our talents. We
should all seek for a testimony, for we all have
an equal privilege to know of the truth of this
work.”
	The Y. L. of Mt. Pleasant South Ward was
represented by the President, Ella Wheelock,
who said they were doing very well; the meet-
ings were well attended, and each one seemed
willing to help the other along.
	Miss Lowrey was requested by Prest. Peter-
sen to relate some of her experience, which she
did, as follows: "During the past year I was
very ill, and beside being sick physically, I also
felt much depressed in spirits. One night as
I was lying upon my bed a beautiful light ap-
peared to me; I thought it might be a reflection,
but looking around the room I soon ascertained
that it was not. It was so clear and bright 
that it is beyond comparison to anything on
earth, and it brought with it such a divine in-
fluence and made me feel so happy, that I
thought I could never more feel sad; but after 
it left me the sad hours would come again.
While I felt pretty well I did not have this
visitation, but when I had another attack it
would again return and cheer me. One night
my mother was sleeping with me, and that
night the Elders had administered to me, and
as a general thing after their administration I 
could sleep, but not so on this particular even-
ing. My mother asked me why I was not
sleeping? I told her I could see that beautiful
light again, and asked her if she could not see
it; she said she could, and while we were talk-
ing about it, it moved into another corner of 
the room. My father was called in, and he
also saw the light. Christmas night my sister
was in my room, and as she was going to bed
at about eleven o’clock, she exclaimed, “Oh,
what a beautiful light above you!” I looked 
up and saw it, and I resolved to ask it as I
would a person if I should ever have my health
restored to me. I did so, and it disappeared.
I still felt uncertain, and I asked it to return
in all its brightness if I should ever be like my
former self again. It reappeared, and came
down so close that it almost rested upon me,
and a feeling like an electric shock passed
through my body. I am here to-day, and I
bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters,
that I know there is a God who hears and an-
swers our prayers, and whose power was mani-
fested to me in this wonderful manner."
	Clara Kofford, of Mt. Pleasant North Ward,
said the young ladies there were much interested;
hoped they would keep on improving.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde bore her testimony to the
truth of what Miss Lowrey had said. “The
great privileges we enjoy are not appreciated
by all. Why are instances like the one just
related more rare than they were when the
Church was in its infancy? Is it because we
have less faith? The adversary has great power
on this earth, and we will all, no doubt, be
thrown into society where we must possess a
portion of the Holy Spirit if we resist the evil
influences that are brought to bear against us.”
Invoked the blessings of God upon us. She
then spoke with the gift of tongues, which was
interpreted by Sister Wells.)	*	*	*
	Miss Willardsen hoped the young ladies
would be alive to their duties, and always strive
to improve.
	Coun. Sarah Petersen said we should remem-
ber the Creator in the days of our youth.
Spoke of the Relief Society of Ephraim as in
a good condition, and exhorted the young
ladies to faithfulness and diligence.
	Prest. M. F. C. Morrison made a few interest-
ing remarks; said mothers should instil into the 
minds of their children the principles of truth.
	Sister E. B. Wells said, “We have many 
manifestations of the goodness of Providence.
We are blessed above all our expectations.
Sometimes we complain of poverty, but we do
not know what poverty is compared with what

[Column Two]

the Saints passed through during the persecu-
tions and mobbings of other days.” Spoke of
seeing some of the convicts at the penitentiary
in their prison garb. Gave an interesting ac-
count of her travels in the East, and her inter-
view with the Poet Whittier. “It takes a great 
deal of humility to embrace the Gospel” Re-
lated an incident to illustrate the same.
	Prest. Canute Petersen was very thankful
for the testimonies borne; hoped they would be
of encouragement to others, and that all would
be united and go on improving.
	Conference was adjourned to meet at Spring
City the second Saturday in March, 1888.
Closed with singing the Doxology, and a bene-
diction.
		A. LOUISE HASLER, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Primary Association of Spring City held
a fair Jan. 31st, 1888, under the management
of their most energetic President, Mrs. Emma
Robinson. There was a fine display of fancy
work, pastry and tools, such as plows, yokes,
potatoe-mashers, butter-ladles, etc., made by
both boys and girls. Among other things was
a nice piece of carpet, made by the children, to
be given to the Manti Temple.
	After the things were viewed by the company,
they were called to order, and a programme of
songs, recitations, speeches and instrumental
music was carried out.
	The singing of the children' under the train-
 ing of Bro. John Schofield was excellent. The
day’s entertainment concluded with dancing
and picnic.
						M. A. WHITE.


MRS. AMMON IN CLEVELAND JAIL.

	The women of Cleveland are just now indig-
nant over the treatment of Mrs. Josephine
Ammon.
	More than a year ago there came to this
woman’s beautiful home on Euclid Avenue, an
old friend and neighbor, who claimed protec-
tion. This friend, Mrs. Bland, and her
daughter, had property, and it was claimed
that the daughter was not mentally strong and
needed a guardian. Hence a certain lawyer
was appointed, against the wishes of the
daughter, and the mother dying at Mrs. Am-
mon’s house, extracted a promise  from her
hostess to protect the girl from her legal pro-
tector.”
	After the funeral, when the guardian called
for his ward, she could not be found. Mrs.
Ammon was summoned before the court to tell
the whereabouts of the girl. This she would
not tell; hence she is in jail for contempt of
court. Our ladies call upon her, and send her
flowers and fruit; her meals are sent to her from
the best hotels; a leading furniture house has
sent her a nice chamber set, and she is very
comfortable and cheerful. Her bright, promis-
ing boys call upon her and say, “Mother is
right.” I know not how long she will occupy
the same prison with forty criminal voters—
the only woman there—but if they imagine she
will yet tell the hiding place of that poor girl
they are greatly mistaken.
	Another thing; the trustees of Adelbert Col-
lege in this city have just decided that girls
shall not be educated there. The boys do not
stand a fair chance, as the girls carry off all
the honors. Hence the girls must go. We
have sixteen hundred saloons in Cleveland, and
we take a revenue from them.
					SARAH M. PERKINS.


﻿Louise Alcott’s books have been translated
into Danish.


LINES.

RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO SISTER ELLEN P.
	MATHERY ON HER LEAVING THE ST.
		GEORGE TEMPLE, JULY 17, 1887.

	A few short years have passed away.
		Since first thou cam’st to earth;
	Away down in the sunny south
		The land that gave thee birth.
	Those golden streets, and mansions fair, 
		Thou bad'st them all farewell,
	To tabernacle in the flesh,
		And with earth's mortals dwell.

	Thou did’st forget those rapturous scenes,
		Scenes of Celestial love;
	Thy father and thy mother, too,
		In regal courts above,
	Transporting joys of heavenly bliss.
		Lit with eternal flame
	Yea, all of these thou didst forget,
		And e’en thy angel name.
 
	God in His kindness gave to thee 
		An angel pure and bright,
	To guide thy feet while here on earth
		In paths of truth and right.
	That thy young heart impressed might be 
		With love of sacred truth,
	And yield obedience thereunto		
		While in the bloom of youth.

	And seemingly unknown to thee,
		Thy path led to the west,
	To mingle with God’s people there
		In Zion’s place of rest.
	And in His sacred temple courts
		He caused thy feet to tread,
	To minister in holy things
		For the living and the dead.

	The peace of God lit up thy soul,
		A heavenly joy serene;
	When at His shrine thou wast ordained 
		A priestess and a queen,
	And millions of thy sex have not
		Been blessed of God as thou,
	He honored thee ’fore thou wast born
		He honors thee e’en now.

	O, may thy works in temple courts
		Accepted be as thine,
	And shed a halo o’er thy life
		And after death still shine.
	And should we ever meet again 
		Let memories of the past
	Spring up like everlasting flowers, 
		Sweet-scented to the last.  
							C. L. WALKER.


﻿A FEW GOOD RULES.

	Attend to them yourself; a go-between be-
twixt mother and child is like a middle-man in
business, who gets the largest share of the 
profits.
	Reflect that a pert child is an abomination;
train your children to be respectful and to
hold their tongues in the presence of their su-
periors.
	Remember that, although they are all your
children, each one has an individual character,
and that tastes and qualities vary indefinitely.
	Respect their little secrets; if they have con-
cealments, worrying them will never make 
them tell, and patience will probably do their
work.
	Remember that without physical health men-
tal attainment is worthless; let them lead free,
happy lives, which will strengthen both mind
and body.
	Make your boys and girls study physiology;
when they are ill try and make them under-
stand why, or how the complaint arose, and the
remedy as far as you know it.
	Teach boys and girls the actual facts of life
as soon as they are old enough to understand
them, and give them a sense of responsibility 
without saddening them.


﻿Impress upon them from early infancy that
actions have results, and that they cannot
escape consequences even by being sorry when
they have acted wrongly.
	Find out what their special tastes are, and
develop them instead of spending time, money,
and patience in forcing them into studies that
are repugnant to them.
	As your daughters grow up, teach them at
least the true merits of housekeeping and
cookery; they will thank you for it in later
life a great deal more than for accomplish-
ments.	
	Maintain a respectful tone to their father
before them; if he is not all you wish, still
make them respect, him; he is always their
father, and disrespect to him is a reflection up-
on yourself.
	Try and sympathize with girlish flights of
fancy even if they seem absurd to you; by so
doing you will retain your influence over your
daughters, and not teach them to seek sym-
pathy elsewhere.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	Drunkards would not be elected to the U.
S. Senate, if women were voters.

	In Wyoming,where women have voted since
1869, it is expressly provided by law that there
shall be no discrimination on account of sex in
the pay for any kind of work.

	All find in Scripture a helper toward the
discovery of truth and the attainment of happi-
ness; a guide to the understanding, a corrector
and supporter of the imagination, a comforter
of the heart, a teacher of wisdon, a rule of
faith, a source of joy.—H. Hunter.

	Mrs. Ada M. Bittenbender, the lady lawyer
of Nebraska, who is now at Washington look-
ing after the interests of the W. C. T. U , was
the author of the excellent Nebraska law
which makes mothers joint guardians of their
children with the father.  In all the States of
the Union except four—Kansas, lowa, New
Jersey and Nebraska—the father is the sole
legal owner of the children, the mother hav-
ing no legal rights in them, unless the marriage
has been broken up by death or divorce. Mrs.
Bittenbender also drew the bill which passed
the last Nebraska Legislature,providing for an
Industrial Home for Fallen Women.—Ex.

	It seems not to be very extensively known
that there is, in Argonia, Kansas, a woman
mayor.  She was elected last Spring, and is
filling the office, it is said, satisfactorily and
conscientiously.  It is said she is pointed out to
strangers as one of the curiosities of the town.
Her name is Susanna Medora Salter; she is a
married woman, twenty-seven years old, with
four children; is a blonde of medium height,
slender in figure and dresses with good taste.
Her father, Oliver Kinsey, was the first mayor
of Argonia.  Kansas was the first State that
granted municipal suffrage to women.  The elec-
tion of Mrs. Salter began in a joke,but it is now
an established fact.—Ex.

	In 1886 there were in the prisons of the
United States 53,00 men and 5,000 women.
The fact is that there are not many bad women.
Men and women do not make two classes, but
one class.  If woman does not have logic, she
has something that makes up for that deficiency;
she has intuition, and one is as likely to come
out right as the other.  There is not a ques-
tion before the people that has not a moral
basis.  Only one-half the people—the male
half—is working at these problems.  Call in
the other half—the female half—and you have
the whole of humanity.  If men have done


grandly, what will they do with women to help
them?—Mary A. Livermore.


NOTICES.

	The conference of the Relief Society, of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, the 15 of March com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. as usual, and it
is desirable that there be a full attendance
from the respective wards and districts, and
especially that each branch Relief Society in
the county should be represented.  As it is
the semi-annual Conference written reports are
expected at an early date to enable the Secre-
tary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, to prepare a
full report in time for the Conference.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake will hold
Conference the following day, March 16, at
the same place and will commence at the same
hours, 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.  Written reports from
each association should be sent in good time to
the Secretary, Miss Lizzie Smith.  It is hoped
the young ladies will make a good showing
of their work during the past six months.
	The Primary Associations of this Stake will
meet on Saturday, the 17th, probably, in the
Assembly Hall.

	The Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annual
Stake reports, carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of
March, that a complete and satisfactory report
may be made to the general conference in
April.
	Direct the reports to Miss Mary E. Cook,
323 E., Third South Street, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our much esteemed sister, Mrs. Sarah Ellis, departed
this life on the 19th ult.  She was the first president of the
Primary Association organized in this place (Spring City), 
and was very faithful to her charge.  The children still 
reverence her memory.  She was honorably released by 
Sister Eliza on account of her age and infirmities.  Sister
Ellis was a faithful member of the Relief Society from the 
first; hospitable and generous, ever ready to assist in doing 
good, and zealous in bearing testimony to the truth.  
									M. A. H.
	Spring City.

	DIED, at Tooele City, Feb. 12, 1888 after a long and
lingering illness and much suffering, Sister Emily Warbur-
ton she was born Oct. 17 1830, in Lincolnshire, England.  
She leaves a husband and nine children and many friends
to mourn her loss.  Sister Warburton was a loving mother
and faithful wife, and a good faithful Latter-day Saint.  
She was the secretary for the Relief Society from the first 
of its organization in Tooele until her death;she was also the 
First Counselor to the President of the stake; she was al-
ways patient, cheerful and charitable and a wise counselor; 
and our society has lost one of the most faithful of its 
members; the deepest sorrow and sympathy is felt for the
bereaved family, and fervently we pray the blessings of 
God to them that they may acknowledge His hand in all
things and that they may follow in her footsteps and the 
good example that she has set before them.  
						ANN TATE, Cor. Sec. R. S. 

		"Dearest sister you have left us,"
			For the bright and happier sphere,
		Although your spirit has departed, 
			Your memory we'll cherish here.

		You have gained the victory,
			And are now at rest from pain, 
		We are in this world of sorrow,
			Our loss is your eternal gain.  
											A. T.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with feelings of great sorrow that we record the
death of Sister Elizabeth Parkin, who died April 4th, 1887.


at her home in South Bountiful. Sister Parkin was born
March 18, 1821, at Loscoe, Derbyshire, England. Was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints Dec. 15, 1850, and left her native land May 26,1862,
with her husband and family—five sons and one daughter
—to gather with the Saints of God to the valleys of the
mountains. She crossed the sea in the ship Syneshore, and
the plains in Captain Ricks' company, arriving in Salt Lake
City Oct. 4th, 1883, with her husband and family all in
good health. Sister Parkin is the only one of her father's
house that embraced the Gospel, nevertheless she has done
a good work for her progenitors. She was a teacher in the
Relief Society of this ward, and always bore her testimony
to the truth of the Latter-day work. She died as she had
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His wis-
dom to call from our midst our much loved and respected
sister, Elizabeth Parkin;
	Whereas, We are called to mourn the loss of a dear
friend and co-laborer in the Relief Society, one who has
always been a faithful member, willing to respond to every
requirement made upon her;
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Relief Society of
South Bountiful, realize the loss of so faithful a member.
	Resolved, That we extend our symyathy to the bereaved
family and friends.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be furnished
the family and the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and placed on
the Relief Society record.
						PHEBE ATKINSON, President,
						MARY ANN PAGE, Secretary.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

