[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: WOMAN LOAFERS. | Author: Unknown]

﻿WOMAN LOAFERS.
			—
	The following, furnished by a correspon-
dent of the Cincinnati “Commercial” is good
enough to read and reflect upon. Will some
of our young ladies who are accustoming
 hemselves to “look down on labor” give
the subject a little consideration?
	“Sometimes it seems to me that the whole
social life of woman is based upon two ideas
—aping and envy. The woman who lives in
two little back rooms up stairs, apes and en-
vies the woman with the large house, and
the woman with a large house is in a steady
fever of fear and fretting lest she be not
recognized by the woman with the stone
front house and a circus chariot, with a clown
dressed up in buttons. No matter how high
up a woman climbs upon the social ladder,
there is always still some higher hight
which she can’t scale, some other over her
head who looks down upon her, and gives
her days and nights of jealousy and head-
ache. Not a blessed woman of them all is
happy and content in the soil wherein fate
has planted her, but must needs spend her
time and strength in frantic efforts to pull
herself up by the roots and transplant her-
self somewhere else. The snobs who ride
circus chariots curl up their noses at the
schoolmistresses, the schoolmistresses look
down from their infinite hights upon the
clerks and dressmakers, and the clerks and
dressmakers in turn pay it off with interest


upon the kitchen girls. What nonsense,
what tom-foolery it all is! Is a schoolmis-
tress any better or higher than a washer-
woman? Not a bit. And are not school-
mistresses and washerwomen both infinitely
better and higher up than the lady loafer,
the Steve Moores of the female sex, in short?
Yea, verily.
	Women are the most-absurd creatures, all
owing to the silly fancy that it is lady-like
to be a loafer. A little time ago one of my
small busy housekeeper friends asked a lady
loafer caller what had become of her sister.
	“She goes down town every day, now,”
said the lady loafer, hesitatingly. 
	“Is she at work?” inquired the house-
keeper.
	“Well, ye—yes,” said the lady loafer, still
more hesitatingly.
	“What does she do?” inquired my friend.
	The lady loafer stammered and backed off
painfully two or three times, and finally
made a clean breast of it, thusly:
	“She—she—she has charge of the trim-
mings in a—dressmaking establishment.
She has nothing to do with the dressmaking.
She has charge of the trimmings. It’s not
a common dressmaking establishment. It’s
one of the fashionable dressmakers. She
won’t make a dress for a poor person.”
	“Oh, glory! Fan me with a cabbage
leaf!" quoth my friend, the small busy house-
keeper.
	The idea of a body’s dressmaker setting
herself to be “highstocracy.” The laurels of
the lady loafers in the circus chariots are
quite withered after that. And yet, why
not a dressmaker? Isn’t money made at
dressmaking quite as aristocratic as money
made with pork, whisky, hides, soap, tallow
and tobacco? Those are the material foun-
dations upon which our American nobility
found their airy castles of aristocracy, you
know, and I’m sure dressmaking is quite as
high and honorable as any of them.


﻿Gentle oxen, suitable for hauling a
basket phaeton about town, are in request
among the ladies of Titusville. 
	A New-fashioned square dance is called
the Pyramid, and being similar to the quad-
rille, is likely to become quite as popular.
	A pair of ladies’ rubber overshoes were
lately found in the stomach of an ox at
Orange, Vt. What became of the lady is
not known.
	“I’ve always heard the world was round
and now I know it,” were Seward’s first
words to a concourse of friends who welcomed
him to Auburn after his circumnavigation
of the globe.	
	“Six feet in his boots!” exclaimed Mrs.
Beeswax; “what will the imprudence of this
world come to, I wonder? Why, they
might as well tell me the man had six heads
in his hat.”
	Dickens says: “I have known vast quan-
tities of nonsense talked about bad men not
looking you in the face. Don’t trust to that
conventional idea. Dishonesty will stare you
out of countenance any day in the week, if
there is anything to be got by it.
	Miss Knight, of Boston, has invented a
machine for making paper bags, and is hav-
ing a number of them manufactured at
Chicopee under her own supervision. The
workmen employed were at first skeptical
as to her mechanical ability, but she cured
them of this by going daily and working
among them, detecting mistakes and im-
proving plans with a keener eye than any
man in the works. Her invention is said to
be an invaluable one, and she will make a
fortune by it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


As a colored boy was following a whistle
of great volume he met an inebriated individ-
ual, who, taking umbrage at the boy’s
musical jollity, gave him a round buffet on
the side of the head. Unluckily for him,
however, the liquor he was carrying made
him top heavy and he was thrown from his
feet by the momentum acquired in deliver-
ing the blow. The boy, half crying, took
advantage of the opportunity and repaid in
kicks the cuff he had received, taking care,
however, to get out of the way before his
opponent regained his feet.
	In his recent talk with Gambetta, Senator
Sumner lamented as a great defect of France
the want of sincere and rational religion,
and expressed his opinion that one of the
most harmful things ever said by a great
man in a position to influence his contem-
poraries and posterity was the famous “mot”
of Henry IV., “Paris vaut bein une messe;”
the free translation of which is that it is well
worth while to change one’s religion and
become a Catholic instead of a Protestant in
order to be master of Paris. The profound
immorality of such skepticism, coming from
a king reputed one of the best that ever
reigned, had, in Sumner’s opinion, struck
deep root in France, and produced immense
evil by its example.
	When I was a boy, says a distinguished
man, my first saving of ten cent pieces,
earned by Saturday afternoon work—for
school kept half a day on Saturday.then—
were expended in buying a heifer calf.
Then I worked on, and paid my father a cer-
tain sum each month for keeping. When
the calf was one year old I traded it for two
steer calves, and now had to put in good and
strong to pay for their keeping; but I
occupied all my spare time in teaching these
calves to work in the yoke, and at one year
old they would gee and haw as well as
old oxen, and my father paid me for their 
use in leading the team for breaking his two
three-year-olds. Again, I had a piece of
ground each year, after I was fourteen, that
I could plant and work on shares; and if I
wanted help, why I had to give two days of
my time to the hired man’s one day. I grew
just what my fancy and reading dictated
and from the proceeds I dressed as well as
any of the boys at the present time. I always
had some time, to play, time to read, and now
look back, with love and pleasant thoughts,
to the old farm and the firm-hand which
taught me to use tools, and whipped me
when I neglected to drive the team out
straight at the end of the furrow in plowing.
The remembrance of my boyhood has always
iduced me to favor all items of encourage-
ment at home on the farm; and I believe, if
it were more generally practiced, we should
have: more good farmers and less broken-
down merchants or loafing, hanging-on,
time-serving clerks, ready for anything ex-
cept honorable labor and usefulness.


