[Vol6 | April 1919 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Genealogy | Title: LESSON III Genealogy SURNAMES DERIVED FROM OFFICES AND PROFE]
Genealogy. 
Third  Week  in  May. 
SURNAMES  DERIVED  FROM  OFFICES  AND 
PROFESSIONS. 
Teachers'  Outlines. 
(See  Chap.  16,  Surname  Book.) 
The  Norman  barons  who  came  over  with  William  the  Con- 
queror appropriated  all  the  court  offices  and  paying  professions. 
Hence  such  surnames  usually  derive  from  Norman  stock. 
Surnames  derived  from :

244  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
(a)  Military  offices. 
(b)  Church  officials. 
(c)  Landed  barons  and  their  retainers. 
(d)  Civil  and  legal  professional  names. 
(e)  Forestry  office-holdings. 
Lesson  Statement. 
The  Norman  barons  who  came  over  with  William  the  Con- 
queror appropriated  all  the  court  offices  and  paying  professions. 
Indeed,  it  would  be  quite  truthful  to  say  that  William  and  his 
nobles  invented  court  offices  and  professions  of  all  kinds  so  as  to 
derive  salaries  from  the  government  and  also  to  acquire  titles 
to  satisfy  their  vanity  and  pride.  Then  they  used  their 
titles  and  offices  and  social  positions  to  oppress  and  humiliate  the 
conquered  Anglo-Saxons.  In  other  words,  the  Anglo-Saxons 
were  the  hewers  of  wood  and  the  drawers  of  water,  while  the 
Norman  professionals,  officials  and  nobles,  were  the  classified  no- 
bility and  gentry  who  ruled  England  under  their  king. 
The  king  himself  multiplied  officers  and  flunkies  in  every 
conceivable  direction  in  his  several  castles  and  palaces.  The  man 
who  tasted  his  food,  the  man  who  cooked  it,  the  man  who  served 
it,  the  man  who  purchased  it,  and  all  the  men  who  sat  by  him 
and  ate  it  received  titles  of  greater  or  lesser  degrees  according  to 
their  condition  and  the  favor  of  the  king  himself. 
First  of  all  there  were  military  offices.  The  soldiery  were 
the  noblest  of  the  noble,  and  barons  and  knights,  lords  and  earls, 
dukes  and  counts  were  bearers  of  arms  under  the  king.  From  all 
of  these,  surnames  have  been  derived. 
Next  came  church  officials,  arch-bishops  and  bishops.  Priests 
and  ministers  received  a  more  or  less  sumptuous  living  as  the  gifts 
of  the  king,  and  although  celibacy  is  a  fixed  tenet  of  the  Catholic 
Church  the  offices  borne  by  priests  who  were  sometimes  fathers 
outside  of  marriage  gave  surnames  to  descendants. 
Next  were  the  officials  in  civil  and  legal  forms  of  social 
life.  Clerks  and  lawyers,  doctors  and  apothecaries,  all  helped  to 
swell  the  list  of  surnames  through  descendants  carrying  on  per- 
manently the  ancestor's  profession  tacked  onto  his  original  name. 
The  English  nobility,  that  is  the  Norman  English  nobility, 
have  always  been  extremely  fond  of  hunting,  so  that  great 
stretches  of  forest  were  kept  intact  on  estates  where  wild  animals 
might  roam  and  serve  their  royal  masters  as  prey  in  a  "chase." 
Officials  who  kept  the  forest  or  the  toll-gate  and  who  looked  after 
the  dogs  and  the  horses  and  who  rode  to  the  hunt  or  to  the  tourna- 
ment— all  these  furnished  some  surnames  am.ongst  the  English 
people.

GUIDE  LESSONS.  245 
It  must  also  be  stated  that  what  the  king  did  in  his  more  mag- 
nificent homes  and  estates  was  imitated  by  all  his  under  lords, 
barons  and  knights.  They  had  their  officials  and  flunkies  with  titles 
and  offices  in  close  imitation  of  their  royal  masters. 
QUESTIONS. 
Who  were  the  Norman  barons  ? 
Why  did  the  Normans  appropriate  the  court  offices  and  pay- 
ing professions? 
Name  some  military  offices  which  have  furnished  surnames. 
What  can  you  say  of  church  dignitaries  and  surnames  derived 
therefrom? 
Name  some  church  surnames. 
What  is  the  difference  between  civil  and  legal  professions? 
What  surnames  derive  therefrom? 
What  is  the  meaning  of  Woodreeve? 
Describe  an  English  chase. 
Name  some  officials  connected  with  hunting. 
Relate  the  manners  and  customs  as  well  as  you  can  of  an 
English  baron  in  the  middle  ages. 
Why  would  the  knights  and  barons  copy  the  manners  and  cus- 
toms of  the  king? 
Who  were  the  aristocrats  in  England  at  that  time ? 
What  is  an  aristc  ^rat  ? 
LESSON  IV. 
Home  Courses. 
Fourth  Week  in  May. 
ADOLESCENCE. 
The  actual  duration  of  the  period  of  adolescence  extends  up  to 
the  twentieth  year,  during  which  certain  substances,  secreted  by 
various  glands,  circulate  in  the  blood  and  stimulate  remarkable 
developments.  Adolescence  may  be  defined  as  the  process  of  grow- 
ing up  from  childhood  to  manhood  and  womanhood.  It  generally 
extends  in  the  life  of  a  boy  from  about  11  to  24  or  25  years,  and 
that  of  a  girl  from  about  12  to  21  or  22  years  of  age,  but  there 
are  considerable  individual  variations. 
Too  often  the  term  of  adolescence  is  confined  to  the  period 
of  puberty,  which  is  but  one  stage  in  the  process  of  adolescent 
growth.  Each  phase  must  be  lived  through,  if  maturity  is  to  be 
complete;  should  normal  processes  be  arrested,  warped  or  over- 
stimulated,  development  is  unbalanced  and  maturity  is  con- 
sequently incomplete.     The  actual  incidence  of  puberty  is  much