[Vol6 | April 1919 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Funny-Bone Route]
THE  FUNNY-BONE  ROUTE.  213 
price  on  the  lot.  There  must  be  loads  of  stuff  you  could  make 
over  for  Archie,  Jr." 
Edith  viewed  the  parcels  with  dismay.  Arch's  last  purchase 
had  been  a  pair  of  rompers  for  which  he  had  paid  $1.85.  She 
could  have  bought  better  goods  and  made  them  for  one  third  of 
that  amount.  The  rompers  had  faded  in  the  first  wash  and  had 
not  been  good  to  look  at  before  that. 
Then  there  was  her  kimona  when  she  had  the  automobile 
accident  and  had  to  be  taken  to  the  hospital.  Arch  had  brought 
it  to  her  with  glowing  eyes  and  no  one  but  a  man  could  possibly 
have  selected  it.  Edith  had  got  Arch's  sister,  Meg,  to  exchange 
it  without  Arch's  knowledge.  And  how  Arch  had  adored  her  in 
the  dainty  garment  that  he  never  suspected  was  not  his  own 
choice.  Part  of  his  adoration  had  been  his  pride  in  himself  for 
his  generosity  in  anticipating  her  need  and  buying  unasked !  And 
then  the  compliment  to  his  selection !  She  certainly  did  look 
squeezable  in  it. 
And  Edith,  well  how  could  a  woman  be  vexed  with  a  big, 
good-natured,  over-grown  boy  like  that?  Hence,  her  eyes 
beamed  into  his.  What  matter  how  or  why  he  arrived  at  his 
love?  He  loved  her,  that  was  all  that  really  counted.  "Carry 
all  your  domestic  troubles  over  the  'funny-bone  route,'  "  had 
been  her  grandmother's  parting  laugh.  "A  woman's  wit  and 
sense  of  humor  will  always  solve  her  love  troubles  and  help  her 
to  keep  them  love  troubles." 
"Well,  it  was  easy  this  time,"  Edith  reflected,  trying  not  to 
laugh,  determined  not  to  cry,  as  she  saw  parcel  after  parcel  un- 
folded, Arch  proudly  displaying  his  remarkable  purchase.  Al- 
most enough  money  to  have  bought  the  layette  had  bought  those 
same  bargains.  And,  aside  from  one  linen  coat  which  Archie, 
Jr.,  might  wear  the  next  summer,  every  item  would  have  to  go 
to  The  Relief  Society  Extension  committee  who  might  find  some 
one  destitute  enough  and  desperate  enough  to  make  use  of  it. 
And  the  hole  it  made  in  the  week's  wages !  How  closely  they 
m.ust  economize  till  next  pay  day ! 
After  a  desperate  attempt  to  rejoice  with  Arch,  Edith  served 
the  evening  meal,  put  Archie,  Jr.,  to  bed  and  sat  down  with  the 
table-cover  she  was  embroidering. 
"Some  embroidery,"  Arch  admired  as  he  noted  it  grow. 
"It  will  be  worth  a  neat  little  sum  of  money  when  it  is  finished, 
won't  it?  How  much,  say?" 
"About  fifteen  dollars,"  Edith  responded.  She  would  have 
preferred  to  be  embroidering  little  slips  for  the  small  fairy  who 
was  to  brighten  their  home. 
"It  will  look  great  on  our  table.  I'll  sure  be  proud  to  show 
it  to  our  friends,"  Arch  concluded.

214  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
Then  suddenly,  without  warning,  Edith  began  to  laugh. 
"What's  the  joke?"  Arch  laughed. 
"Oh,  something  just  got  over  my  funny-bone,"  Edith 
smiled.  "By  the  way,  were  there  any  sales  on  white  goods  today?" 
"I  didn't  notice  any,"  Arch  sobered.  "But  they'll  come. 
"I  hope,  in  time,"  Edith  smiled  demurely. 
"Sure  bet,"  Arch  declared. 
"Then  we'll  wait  even  if  the  little  white  bird  doesn't,"  Edith 
smiled. 
She  was  smiling  far  into  the  night  as  she  sat  alone  embroid- 
ering the  table  cover.  i\nd  she  hadn't  lost  the  smile  as  she  still 
embroidered  at  the  sewing  circle  the  next  day. 
Whatever  occasioned  the  smile  was  interrupted  by  an  ex- 
clamation from  Nancy  Jackson,  when  Helen  Smith  entered  in  an 
elegant  new  set  of  furs. 
"Such  war-time  extravagance!"  Nancy  chided. 
"Not  at  all,"  Helen  laughed.  "These  are  a  penitential  check 
from  my  husband." 
"In  other  words,  you  had  'words,'  "  commented  the  out- 
spoken Nancy.  "And  you  looked  aggrieved  and  unhappy  so  the 
poor  man  wrote  out  a  check  to  appease  his  offended  goddess. 
And  like  as  not  the  goddess  provoked  the  quarrel  on  purpose  to 
get  the  furs." 
"Wonderful  guess,"  Helen  applauded.  "And  likewise  some- 
thing of  a  confession." 
"Not  at  all,"  Nancy  confessed.  "I've  seen  it  worked.  Every 
woman  has  her  method.  I  happen  to  be  blessed  with  a  husband 
v/hose  memory  is  short.  Hence  I  explain  my  financial  shortness 
by  ringing  in  the  same  items  over  and  over.  One  month,  for 
instance,  I  must  buy  a  certain  thing  and  the  next  month  I  must 
pay  for  it.  And  thus  I  manage  to  subtract  enough  to  get  what 
I  want." 
"How  shocking!"  Freda  Houston  remonstrated.  "How  can 
you  love  your  husband  and — well,  work  him  that  way?" 
"A  bride  of  a  month  has  much  to  learn,"  Nancy  laughed. 
"Why,  even  the  wealthiest  men  are  somewhat  near  with 
cash,"  ]\Irs.  Farnham  interposed.  "I  have  a  cousin  who  is  mar- 
ried to  a  man  whose  income  is  up  in  the  thousands.  He  simply 
lavishes  gifts  on  friends  and  spends  like  a  millionaire,  but  his 
wife  has  to  keep  the  change  when  the  tradesmen  present  their 
bills  as  they  always  do  at  meal-times.  She  manages  to  have 
guests  at  the  table  most  of  the  time  so  he  won't  dare  ask  for 
the  change." 
Edith's  face  went  crimson.  Did  every  one  have  that  opinion 
of  her  husband  also? 
"How  can  she  keep  from  hating  her  husband 'when  he  is  so

THE  FUNNY-BONE  ROUTE.  215 
unjust  to  her?"  Freda  pursued.  "And  besides,  such  methods  must 
be  harmful  to  the  children." 
"But  what  is  a  woman  to  do?"  Nancy  enquired.  'It  is  even 
worse  if  a  woman  earns  after  her  marriage.  Then  she  has  no 
excuse  for  asking  for  a  cent.  It  almost  separated  Tom  and 
Norma.  I've  heard  him  tell  her  'to  dig  up  for  the  gasoline,'  if 
she  wanted  a  ride  in  the  car  he  bought,  because  she  was  support- 
ing the  home  with  her  earnings.  If  their  eldest  daughter  hadn't 
run  away  with  a  pedler,  while  her  mother  was  clerking,  and 
nearly  married  him,  and  so  shocked  thenn  and  brought  them  to- 
gether, they'd  have  been  divorced  long  ago." 
"But  I  thought  all  homes  were  run  now  on  the  budget  sys- 
tem," Freda  protested.  "Dick  and  I  talked  it  over  long  before  we 
were  married  and  decided  the  amount  we  should  save  each  week, 
the  sum  each  should  have  for  pergonal  expenditures.  The  table, 
clothing,  amusements,  charities,  education,  etc.,  each  has  its  own 
fund.  It  really  is  fun  to  go  over  our  accounts  every  pay-day," 
Freda  blushed,  "pay-day  is  reckoning  and  dividing  day  with  us. 
And  really,  it  is  so  sweet  to  share  and  consider  each  other  and 
go  over  it  all , together." 
Edith  looked  up  gratefully  to  the  wise  little  bride,  who  be- 
lieved in  her  husband,  and  had  not  built  her  home  on  the  treach- 
erous sands  of  deceit  .and  beggary.    • 
"It  would  be  better  if  a  couple  started  out  that  way,"  Nancy 
agreed,  "but  it  would  be  frightfully  hard  to  get  around  to  it 
afterward.  And  really  it  is  the  rock  on  which  half  the  matri- 
monial barques  go  down.  A  woman  feels  so  resentful  when  her 
husband  doles  out  charity  pennies  to  her,  and  flings  dollars  about 
for  himself." 
"Yes,  and  it  takes  all  the  joy  out  of  life  if  a  woman  can  not 
plan  and  save  for  personal  desires  and  ambitions  for  the  home 
and  children,"  Helen  added.  "But  as  Nancy  says,  what  can  we 
do  if  we  get  started  wrong?" 
"There  is  always  the  funny-bone  route,"  Edith  laughed. 
"The  way  to  a  man's  heart  is  by  means  of  his  stomach,  and  the 
way  to  his  pocket-book  is  over  the  fuiiny-bone  route.  Every  man 
fias  a  sense  of  humor,  and  enjoys  being  out-witted  by  his  wife. 
Grandma  always  said." 
Edrth  was  wondering  if  the  funny-bone  route  was  going 
to  succeed  for  her,  as  she  worked  on  the  table-cover  as  though 
her  life  depended  on  it.  And  indeed  her  eye-sight  did  depend  on 
it,  long  before  it  was  finished.  Arch's  concern  was  not  alone 
for  his  pocket-book,  ^hough  the  occulist  relieved  him  of  some- 
thing like  twenty-five  dollars  before  Edith  was  successfully  fitted 
with  glasses.  Arch  had  always  admired  his  wife's  beautiful 
eyes.     And  now  to  gaze  at  their  luminous  depths  always  aglow