[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: ORGAN RECITAL. | Author: Unknown]

ORGAN RECITAL.

	A grand free musical entertainment of a very
high order was given in the large Tabernacle in
this city on the evening of Monday April 15th, for
which careful preparation had been previously
made.  Bishop W. B. Preston presided, and
Bishop O. F. Whitney offered the opening prayer.
Prof. Daynes opened with a solo on the great 
organ, and rendered in his very best style, the
"Pilgrims Song of Hope."  Moroni J. Thomas
sang "Nazareth" (bass solo,) Prof. Radcliffe gave
with thrilling effect "Bach's Tocata and Fague,"
and supplemented it with Batiste's grand offertoire.
The great organ never poured forth more soul
stirring and sympathetic notes than on this mo-
mentous occasion when ten thousand people were
intently listening spell-bound, as it were, under 
the tremor of its most powerful and charming
symphony. Prof. Kent on the clarionette and Prof.
Radcliffe on the organ performed with almost
magic skill and in delightful harmony a larghetto
from Mozart's Quintette which was highly appre-
ciated.  Prof. Daynes then gave "William Tell"
which elicited for him vociferous storms of ap-
plause. Willard Weihe the favorite violinist of
Utah, next came forward and gave a cavatina by
Raff, and his instrument gave expression and re-
sponse to the most sensitive and exalted feelings
of the human soul; after repeated tempests of ap-
plause he gave as an encore "Away down upon
the Swanee River," the audience were almost wild
with enthusiasm, Prof. Radcliffe gave in his lofty
style of rendering Weber's overture to Des Freis-
chutz."  This closed the first part of the programme.
The second part was as grand in style and as suc-
cessful in rendition as the first and after a couple
of organ solos and Beech's Triumphal March,
there was a vocal quartette by Messrs. Easton,
Whitney, Goddard and Spencer, the song was
that tender and beautiful one "When the swallows
homeward fly," the gentlemen were so enthusias-
tically applauded, that they could not resist and
sang as an encore "Soldiers farewell,"  in the
same exquisite voice and manner.  Afterwards
followed instrumental solos from Prof. Radcliffe 
and Minor and Costa's sublime march of triumph
"Naaman," then Prof.  Kent accompanied by
Weihe's orchestra, again thrilled the immense
audience with their divine melody; Miss Bessie
Dean warmly welcomed, sang in her exquisitely
happy style an air from Rossini's "Stabat Mater."
Prof. Radcliffe rendered the aria "Evening Star"
from Tanhauser and also "Wely's March."  The
closing part by the Tabernacle Choir organ and
orchestra was a most sublime effort suited to such 
an occasion, Handel's Hallelujah Chorus from
the oratorio of the Messiah.  Apostle H. J. Grant
pronounced the benediction and the large and at-
tentive congregation who had intently listened for
more than three hours was dismissed.  The pub-


lic are certainly greatly indebted for a very fine 
musical treat, to the Tabernacle Choir and the 
committee of arrangements Messrs.  E. Beesley,
J. J, Daynes, and C, R. Savage.  The concert was
repeated on Friday evening as a sort of ovation to
the Denver excursionists on their visit to this
city.


[Column 1]
