Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson 8 THE SECOND ADVENT OF THE MESSIAH Helpful References In the Bible: Psalms 50:3-5; Isaiah 35:4; 40: 10; Joel 2:28-32; 3:15-17; Zechariah 4:3-5; Malachi 3:1-3; Matthew 16:27; 24:3-6, 14, 29-30, 36- 40; 25:31-32; Luke 21:10-17; Acts.1:9-11; 3:19-21; 1 Thessalonians 4:14-17; 2 Thessalonians 1:7-10; 2:1-5. In the Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi 26:3; 28:7; 29:2. In the Doctrine and Covenants: 29:9-21; 33:17-18; 34:6-9; 35: 15-18; 45:37-57; 64: 23-24; 65: 3-5; 88:87-99; 101:23-35; 110: 14-16; 128:24; 130:1, 14-17; 133. In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 7:59-67. See also An Extract from a Translation of the Bible. Smith, The Way To Perfection, chapter 39. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, chapter 42. 1. The Church Proclaims the Doctrine of the Second Advent.?A lesson on the teachings of the Christ respecting His Second Advent is timely. A cursory examination of the history of our Church makes plain the fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith expressly taught the doctrine of the Second Coming. Clearly he meant that Christ was to come in the relatively near future. He testifies plainly that heavenly messengers had so informed him. The revelations of the Lord to the Church seem to indicate that we cannot work too hard in making preparations for, and in warning the world of, the Christ's coming in glory. 2. Modern Disbelief in the Doctrine of the Second Advent.?Latterday Saints do well to notice the unfortunate but growing tendency among men to disbelieve in the Second Coming of the Christ. It is part of our work to make careful observation of conditions in the world and to adjust our preaching to meet them. Dr. Klausner, the great Jewish scholar, speaks of the Second Coming of the Savior as follows: "According to this idea, the Messiah must suffer and die, but he would in the end rise again and, this second time, appear in glory and establish the kingdom of heaven. To make this idea appear true the disciples stole the body of Jesus and hid it; after fifty days?by which time the body must have become unrecognizable even if found, they spread the rumor that he was risen from the dead and that he had shown himself alive to them. Thenceforward they awaited his Second Coming (Parousia), when he should establish his kingdom, the everlasting kingdom of heaven. And this Coming, rather than the ethical teaching of Jesus, became the fundamental hope and basis of early Christianity. All at first believed in his speedy coming; but when there seemed no prospect of an early coming they allocated it to a later age, to the close of a thousand years (the Millennium)." Those who disbelieve in the Lord's Coming point out that such doctrine LESSON DEPARTMENT is nothing but a carry over from the beliefs of an earlier age when it failed of accomplishment and was accordingly put off for fulfillment at a much later time. To believe in it now, in the light of historical research, they say, is to exercise credulity rather than faith. We believe that scholars and intelligent laymen alike, in many instances, have been misled in their belief. Their sincerity we do not question. Not having a sufficient understanding of the principles of the Gospel, they have jumped at erroneous conclusions. 3. The Ancient Prophets Understood the Doctrine of the Second Advent.?The Church teaches that the Gospel was in the world from the beginning, and that the coming of the Christ in the flesh was foreseen; His death and resurrection were predicted long before His advent in the flesh. Likewise, prophets and seers foresaw that His Second Advent in glory would take place long after His death and resurrection. Thus, Enoch, who lived centuries before the Christ's earthly advent saw in vision His Second Coming, as related in the Pearl of Great Price. ''And it came to pass that Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, in the last days, to dwell on the earth in righteousness for the space of a thousand years." (Moses 7:65; read carefully Moses 7:59-67). The Old Testament prophets understood the true teaching respecting the coming of the Messiah in glory. Joel the Prophet expressly refers to it in Chapter 2:28-32. The Prophet Joseph Smith relates that Moroni made reference to this prophecy when he appeared to him September 21, 1823. "He also quoted the second chapter of Joel, from the twenty-eighth verse to the last. He also said that this 131 was not yet fulfilled, but was soon to be." (Paragraph 41, Extracts From The History of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, Pearl of Great Price). Since Joel speaks of "the terrible day of the Lord," he can scarcely have had reference to anything but the Second Coming. Malachi certainly had reference to it in his prophecy. (See Malachi 3:1-3 and compare Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 128:24). Numerous other Old Testament references can be cited. (See references at beginning). 4. The Jews of Christ's Time Misunderstood Prophetic References to the Second Advent?Unfortunately, the people of the Jewish nation at Christ's time had generally misunderstood the teachings of the prophets in reference to the Second Coming. Doubtless this was due to the fact that the nation had been taught too long by an uninspired or apostate priesthood. At any rate the Jews were awaiting a Messiah who was to come in power and rescue them from their enemies. Little did they suspect that many of the teachings they read in the prophetic books had reference to what we know as the Second Coming. The fact that the Christ was first to come into the world as a humble child had been practically forgotten. 5. The Savior Taught His Apostles the True Doctrine of His Second Coming?It became necessary for the Savior to carefully explain to His apostles the true doctrine respecting His Second Advent. Shortly before He took Peter, James and John on the Mount of Transfiguration He said, '""For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works. Verily I say unto you, There shall be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see 132 the Son of man coming in his Kingdom." Matthew 16:27-28). That John explicitly understood this teaching is made clear, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in a remarkable revelation that consists of a translated version of the record made on parchment by John and hidden up by himself. "And the Lord said unto me: John, my beloved, what desirest thou? For if you shall ask what you will, it shall be granted unto you. And I said unto him: Lord, give unto me power over death, that I may live and bring souls unto thee. And the Lord said unto me: Verily, verily, I say unto thee, because thou desirest this thou shalt tarry until I come in my glory, and shalt prophesy before nations, kindreds, tongues and people. And for this cause the Lord said unto Peter: If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?" (Doctrine and Covenants 7: 1-4; compare John 21:20-23). There can scarcely be any mistake that the apostles in the Primitive Church became clearly acquainted with the true doctrine of Christ's Second Coming. If there is any doubt on this point, the Prophet Joseph Smith banished it when he revised by the spirit of revelation the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, commencing with the last verse of the Twenty-third chapter, King James' Version. Part of this scripture refers to the coming destruction of the temple and the troubles of the Jews; those parts dealing with the Second Coming are easily picked out. "Then understood his disciples that he should come again on the earth, after that he was glorified and crowned on the right hand of God.... But of that day, and hour, no one knoweth; no, not the angels of God in heaven, but my Father only. But as it was in the days of Noah, so it shall be also at the coming of the Son of Man; for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE it shall be with them, as it was in the days which were before the flood; for until the day that Noah entered into the ark they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage; and knew not until the flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be." (Pearl of Great Price, An Extract from a Translation of the Bible, 1:40-43; see also Matthew 24:3-6, 14, 29-30). 6. Some Members of the Primtive Church Clung to Belief in the Quick Return of Christ?However, in spite of the clear understanding of the doctrine on the part of the apostles, many lay members of the Primitive Church still retained the mistaken impression that the Christ was soon to come again. This is borne out by the fact that the Apostle Paul had to write a letter to the Thessalonians expressly correcting their notions respecting the quick return of the Christ. (2 Thessalonians 2:1-3) In spite of Paul's clear instruction when he was with them, they misunderstood. (2 Thessalonians 2:5) It is likely that at the present time many people misunderstand the doctrine, either because of partially corrupted texts of the Bible, or because some of the New Testament writers, who clearly understood the teaching themselves, have not made themselves sufficiently clear in writing about it. In this dispensation the Lord has left no doubt in the minds of those who have His Spirit, that His coming is nigh, even at the door. Questions 1. How do you account for the great indifference of the world today to many sublime truths of the gospel? 2. Can you see wisdom in the LESSON DEPARTMENT Lord's refusal to make known the exact time of His Second Advent? 3. How would you answer those who say a correct understanding of the doctrine of the Second Advent can make no difference in our lives one way or another? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. Carefully study the Book of Mormon teaching respecting the Second Coming and summarize your findings. 133 2. Summarize the distinctive contributions of the Doctrine and Covenants to our knowledge of the Second Advent. Which of these are especially hard for the world to receive? 3. Find some contributions of interest made by the Pearl of Great Price to the subject of our lesson. 4, Bring to the class some interesting authoritative statements made by various leaders of the Church that deal with the doctrine of the Second Advent. Teacher's Topic Lesson 8 THE PotrsE oF JESUS "T am the way, the truth, and the life.'?John 14:6. "Every virtue, when pushed beyond its appointed limit, becomes a vice, and every grace, when overdeveloped, becomes a defect and disfiguration." ?Jefferson (C. E.). POISE is the fine balance of one's faculties, which keeps a virtue within its appointed limits. In the character of Jesus we find perfect balance. He possessed all the virtues, yet none were overgrown. One writer says: "He was enthusiastic, blazing with enthusiasm, but he never became fanatical. He was emotional; men could feel the throbbing of his heart; but he never became hysterical. He was imaginative, full of poetry and music, throwing upon everything he touched a light that never was on land or sea, the inspiration and the poet's dream?but he was never flighty: He was practical, hardheaded, matter-of-fact, but he was never prosaic, never dull. His life always had in it the glamour of romance. He was courageous, but never reckless; prudent, but never a coward; unique but not eccentric; sympathetic but never sentimental. Great streams of sympathy flowed from his tender heart toward those who needed sympathy, but at the same time streams of lava flowed from the same heart to scorch and overwhelm the workers of iniquity. He was pious, but there is not a trace about him of sanctimoniousness.... He was religious, the most profoundly religious man that ever turned his face toward God, but never once did he slip into superstition." ?C. E. Jefferson. Because he was so well rounded, so well balanced, he showed in his conduct unrivaled poise. The intellectuals of his time tried to catch him, or trip him, but his answers were so wise they were vanquished. Satan tempted him to use his power for his own glory, but Jesus never 134 'did. His enemies heaped upon him all manner of abuse, but he never said anything unmanly in return. He stood in the midst of the strife and storms, which bent or swayed other men, but he remained unmoved and unmovable. Because he possessed all the higher qualities of character in such balance, he has appealed to all types of men down through the centuries. The intellectuals go to him for philosophy, for guidance; the painter, the poet, the musician, for inspiration; men who aspire to raise humanity to higher levels go to him humbly because he points the way; those in the midst of strife, those in trouble and sorrow find in him comfort and solace. He is to men today what he was to men of all centuries since he lived upon the earth, the one perfect character. Only now there is perhaps a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE greater appreciation of Him and His teachings. He is our pattern and while we can never approach him in perfection of character we can obtain a fuller and more abundant life by following as closely as possible his example. Discussion In what way can poise be developed? Have you known of anyone who changed in character through conversion to the teachings of Jesus? Give incidents from the New Testament illustrating the poise of Jesus. References New Testament. The Character of Jesus, by 'Charles Edward Jefferson. Literature Lesson 8 The ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE SIXTY years after the dedication of the Salt Lake Theatre, Henry Miller, in a curtain speech on the stage of the Old Playhouse, referred to it as 'A Cathedral in the Desert.' And surely it has been as a cathedral to the people. Its doors have always been open to all parties and creeds. In the tense religious and political strife which cursed the community, more particularly in the early days, the Theatre was the one common ground upon which the questions of the hour were thrashed out. Though the place has always been controlled by the "Mormon" people, yet its use was never denied to those of different beliefs even though they were violent in their antagonisms. And so it was generally loved by all classes. This neutrality won their respect. The Theatre took on the aspect of a community home and has been so regarded ever since." The author continues: "Upon its completion the fame of the Theatre spread far and wide. Its comfortable, dignified auditorium, its appointments, stage equipment, decorative art, and marvelous acoustics? all these characteristics marked it as a playhouse of class and distinction. And it was worthy of all that was said of it, for in few cities, even the largest, could be found a playhouse so perfectly furnished. An excavator in Italy recently dug up a plan of what was considered the perfect theatre acoustically; but really to find the most perfect acoustics, they LESSON DEPARTMENT needn't have gone so far, for this feature could have been 'found in the theatre built by Brigham Young in the Rocky Mountains in 1862." Those who have had the supreme pleasure of seeing and hearing plays in the Old Playhouse will always remember its beauty as well as its acoustical properties. The writer of these lessons was young when he first began going to plays in the Salt Lake Theatre and though he was usually in the top tier of the topmost "heaven," he still remembers that he could hear and see. He also remembers going with George D. Pyper under the Old Playhouse to get a glimpse of how it was constructed. Its sturdy foundations and its stout posts of native pine logs impressed him greatly. That the theatre was not merely a cradle for the drama, but for all of the arts is indicated by Mr. Pyper in his chapter which he calls "Echoes From the Orchestra Pit." In those days, plays invariably had their music between acts and before the play started if not in the piece itself. Here again the mission fields contributed the geniuses who were needed to make the arts flourish in the desert. The first of these talented men was Professor Charles J. Thomas, who assembled an orchestra of twenty pieces at the opening of the Old Playhouse. From that time on, almost without a break, a fine orchestra could be heard whenever a play was presented. Professor Thomas was converted in 1851. Falling ill, his life was despaired of, when through the administrations of the elders he was healed. This had a profound effect upon him and his entire family. As a direct result all joined the Church and Professor Thomas came to Utah where a great work awaited him. Not only did Professor Thomas 135 lead the orchestra, he composed and arranged much of the music which was played. That his efforts were appreciated is indicated by the fact that the old bills frequently featured the music. For instance, "for 'The Charcoal Burner,' produced Saturday, January 10, 1863, the play bill announces "Beautiful new and appropriate music, composed and arranged expressly for this drama by Prof. C. J. Thomas.' " Professor Thomas was succeeded as orchestra leader by George Edward Percy Careless, also an English convert. Professor Careless is one of the great geniuses to be gathered by the Gospel net. He could have made much more money and lasting fame elsewhere, but he chose to remain with the people of his choice. Many of our best hymns were written by this man. Mr. Pyper relates many anecdotes of this gifted musician whose heart was in his work. Other men who led the orchestra are: E. Beesley, Willard Weihe, Arthur Shepherd, Fred Midgley, Squire Coop, and Arthur Freber. The first Utahn ever to write an overture was William C. Clive, a well known musician and first violinist of the orchestra. His number, "The Golden Crest," was played first in the Salt Lake Theatre. Mention has already been made of the painting. The Theatre, itself, was a challenge to the artist. It was beautifully finished in harmonious colors that made an evening in its spacious auditorium an _ event worthy of being held as a sacred memory. Its great front curtain and its drops were also inspirational to those who had the privilege of seeing a play on its stage. Naturally, it was a constant incentive to the dancer and the musician, vocal or instrumental, who looked upon an ap- 136 pearance in the Theatre as being an important step on the way toward recognition. | One of the most popular of the early-day actresses to come to the theatre was Julia Dean Hayne. Her opening performance as a member of the Potter Company occurred August 11, 1865, when she appeared in "Camille." She proved tremendously popular and remained at the Theatre for more than a year, dying soon after leaving Salt Lake City. The author has included in his book, mention of a huge sled which President Young caused to be built and named the Julia Dean. President Young's great interest in the drama and the Old Playhouse is presented no more forcibly anywhere than in the chapter where attention is called to the fact that he actually called at least a few young people on missions to act, though such calls were rarely necessary because all who had the least ability were eager, beyond measure, to play behind the footlights of the West's great Playhouse. Miss Nellie Colebrook was one of the first called to act in the Old Playhouse. The letter of call follows: "Dear Brother and Sister Colebrook: "Would you allow your daughter Nellie to act upon the stage? It would very much please me. Your Brother, Brigham Young." The author follows with this statement: "A published biographical sketch of Miss Colebrook's life describes her as a very diffident girl, but very queenly, and adds: 'How had he, the President of the Church, divined all the secret aspirations and ambitions of that reserved and shy soul! Who had heard from the sensitive lips one word of all that had burned in her heart!' To Nellie those questions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE always remained unanswered!" Sara Alexander was another girl who was called upon a "Mission" to act. "President Young asked her one day: " 'Sara, why don't you join the company?" ""T don't want to,' she replied. "But I want you to! Said the President. And Sara complied and made an instantaneous hit." Both of these girls became unusually popular as actresses. Companies came and went. The Old Playhouse continued to be first in the hearts of the Saints who packed it whenever something good was presented. Many of the leading actors and actresses remained at the Theatre for weeks, playing different plays until they were well known -and many of them were deeply loved. President Young preferred comedies. He said: "If I had my way I would never have a tragedy played on these boards. There is enough tragedy in everyday life, and we ought to have amusement when we come here." However, he was not very dictatorial in these matters. As early as 1869 the first operas were presented in the Old Playhouse, the first company being the Howson Opera Company. Their season was from June 1 to June 19. Among the operas they presented were "II Trovatore" and the "Grand Duchess." During that year, 1869, the Old Playhouse was open 283 nights, an indication that the dramatic presentations brought to Salt Lake City were popular with the people. The coming of Maude Adams to the Old Playhouse is considered by the author a high spot in its history. He says: "As bluebirds in the spring suddenly arrive in our gardens as harbingers of happiness and good luck, Maude Adams, when only a LESSON DEPARTMENT birdling, fluttered into the theatre in the spring of its existence and became a part of its romance, bringing new faith and confidence in the wholesomeness and worthwhileness of the stage." Mr. Pyper, as all others who knew her, adored Maude Adams and looked upon her as being among the greatest of the great. In a pleasing reminiscent mood, the author wrote his chapters 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23 as he traced the intimate history of the building, that he loved, and the artistic expression for which it stood. Those chapters are rich in intimate glimpses of theatre life. Suggestions for Study 1. It would be well to assign the chapter?"The Advent of Maude 137 Adams?Her Mother's Story''?to some capable person and have her give it rather in full. 2. The anecdotes concerning Brigham Young in chapter 23 could also be given rather fully. 3. Careless' and Thomas' songs could be sung to correlate with this lesson. These may be found in the "Songs of Zion" or the "Deseret Sunday School Song Book." 4. Enumerate ways in which the Old Playhouse encouraged the arts. 5. Give evidences that President Young was strongly in favor of dramatic productions. 6. Where the plays are available, excerpts from some of these first plays could be presented in class. Social Service Lesson 8 SPIRITUAL QUALITIES IN THE CHURCH BEAUTIFICATION PROGRAM IN THE Church Beautification Program there is one phase that supersedes all tangible evidence of what is grand in architecture, of what nears perfection in the art of sculpture and in painting, or of any surroundings that may be brought into a state of loveliness to enhance a building?it is the condition of spiritual beauty through which our church was organized. There is one note which should be sounded in order to sustain that kind of beauty in the hearts of those who are fortunate enough to live in an age when the beautification program can be launched?the humility of remembrance. Time has done much for the Latter-day Saints; it has given the strength and the power to project this program. But time must not be allowed to diminish the grandeur of the spirit which outshone the poignantly humble beginnings of the "Mormons" in a material way. To call this fact to the attention of the reader is the purpose of this lesson. "THE Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came to life through beauty. The implicit faith of the lad, Joseph Smith, prompted him to seek guidance through prayer. On the morning of a clear day in spring, for the first time in his life, he sought to pray vocally. "Never before had I made such an attempt," the young boy said. But his unfaltering belief in the promise of the Scriptures resulted 138 in one of the most: beautiful visions, as well as one of the most significant, ever recorded. "I saw a pillar of light," he said, "exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.... When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spoke unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other?This ts my beloved Son, hear him." What grander message could be given to man than that which Joseph Smith received? The Church had its inception through the direct word of the Lord at this time, for Joseph proved faithful to the heavenly trust that was then placed in him. Three years later, in a second glorious vision, the angel Moroni ap-. Peared in robes of "exquisite whiteness" and told Joseph of the restoration of the everlasting gospel. Shortly after this the angel delivered into his hands the plates of beaten'gold, upon whose surfaces were inscriptions of exceedingly fine workmanship. Although David Whitmer, Oliver Cowdery, Martin Harris and the eight witnesses were the only other human beings in this dispensation who ever saw the golden plates, every true "Mormon's" faith comes into being through this concept. In his mind the image of the vision and of the golden plates is a living thing. It is interwoven into all that is vital in his life, into everything that he holds sacred and dear. The world in general laughed the revelations to scorn, but God's message to Joseph Smith was so gloriously vital that it at once became more real than life itself in the hearts of many. Transcending, as it does, human limitations with the hope? indeed the very knowledge?of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "eternal progress, it embodies the most uplifting ideas given to man. And even as the religious beliefs are illuminated by divine truth and wisdom, they were restored to the earth under unutterably beautiful circumstances. The substance of Mormonism and the way in which it was given are so closely interwoven they are practically indivisible. But of what did the material surroundings that pertained to the physical needs of those who believed in the message consist? The contrast was so complete as to constitute an arresting difference. Most Latter-day Saints were poor during the organization period of the Church. Nearly all of those people who had been well situated gave up ?or lost? their means of earning a good livelihood. Even subsistence became a problem to some who had known near luxury, their circumstances became so changed when they embraced the gospel. The experience of Daniel Spencer in 1840 is but one example of many to substantiate this fact. The journal history of the handcart company of 1856 tells how he closed his store for one week while he thought over the gospel message that he had heard in a meeting. At the close of the service the presiding missionary stepped into the aisle and said: "In the name of the Lord, is there anyone here who will give me a night's lodging?" Dead silence ensued until Daniel Spencer spoke. His words were, "I will entertain you, Sir, for humanity's sake." Instead of taking the man to the hotel as was his wont in the case of distinguished visitors in the town, he gave him a room in his own home. The week of silence followed, at the end of which time Daniel Spencer could not deny the testimony that had been born in his spirit. But LESSON DEPARTMENT acceptance was the end of his merchandising business in this location. Most Church members were forced to adjust to the humblest forms of living. Only by gathering together could they' strengthen the new religious organization sufficiently to carry out its purposes. This entailed the abandonment of homes already established, moving into new locations, and often the development of new territory. Since the missionary system had already come into being, a large proportion of what money the Latter-day Saints had was going into this channel. The result of these various conditions was to force the people into meager surroundings. Log houses, other extremely humble homes, and forts, or communal dwellings, were usually the forerunners of each new settlement. But there was one aspect in the Church organization which was most exalted, even in a material way. The House of the Lord was not to be of lowly fashion. God had revealed certain ordinances which were to be performed in a building that must be constructed and dedicated to the purpose. The grand plan of salvation for the dead, the sealing of living couples in eternal marriage as well as the bestowing of endowments, could not be consummated in any place on earth other than-one which was designed and set apart for such ordinances. Through revelation Joseph Smith realized that such a structure could be nothing less than a temple. The knowledge was part of the tidings which were given to him in the restored plan of everlasting truth. The Kirtland temple, a magnificent accomplishment for the times and condition of the people, became a reality only through manifold sacrifices. Numberless as they were, small as they seemed, they represented 139 real privation. The appeal for contributions had been made throughout the Church. Men and women in the newly organized missions of far lands gave up their tea?which was not then forbidden?to add their mite to the growing account. Some who were already cold burned less fuel; others lighted fewer candles, and some went without kerosene in behalf of the sacred building. But the temple was no sooner dedicated than it had to be abandoned; the Saints were forced to leave Kirtland. The Mormons were not altogether free from fault in the antagonisms that set their neighbors' hearts against them, but also, they were victims of terribly unjust persecution. Their migratory course unfailingly led them a little farther to the West; often the courageous group reclaimed a seemingly undesirable region. On a beautiful rise of ground above the Mississippi River they drained a damp area formerly unfit for human habitation; but here they established their city of Nauvoo, the Beautiful. How the city flourished! Log cabins were soon replaced by fine houses among those who inevitably prosper under any conditions. But there, as in Kirtland, homes were of secondary importance. It was the temple on the hill that commanded the most glorious site of all, and to whose building the people again devoted their very lives. This beloved structure was barely dedicated when it too was abandoned. The "Mormons" fled in the face of martyrdom and a storm of indescribable persecution. They deserted their homes; they said farewell to their temple on the hill, but the gospel truths were living things?they could not be left behind. In Utah other temples were built. One of Brigham Young's first acts was to select the site for the Salt Lake Temple. Four were erected while Utah was still a territory, but not without inestimable toil, labor, and personal sacrifice. No more were built for many years, but what monuments to the integrity of the pioneers are these four! What a glorious symbol of beauty apart from its religious significance, which of course is the pre-eminent quality of its being, is the statue of the angel Moroni standing with his trumpet to his lips atop the highest stone of the Salt Lake Temple. There is no greater example of beauty in the entire country than this statue, according to the judgment of several eminent artists. But, in the meantime, while those buildings were under construction, and for long years after they were completed, what were the other houses of worship like throughout the Church? In some cases there were fine buildings for ward and stake meetinghouses. But often the places for religious service were of spare and unpromising exterior and interior aspect. In the missions the gathering places of the Latter-day Saints have at times been actually forbidding and undesirable. The emphasis of Mormonism, however, could not be placed upon the surroundings. It was the message which the elders carried that was then, as now, the important phase. Otherwise, how could the gospel have survived? The increase in the church membership bears witness to the fact that the beauty of the religion offset the sordidness of the surroundings. There was another reason beside the limited means of the Church for such pitiable conditions. The "Mormons" were usually denied the use of a better place. The exceptions, let it be told to the honor of Christianity, came through the kindness of Protestant ministers. Sometimes the missionaries were allowed the use of their churches. It is true such use often ended in persecution of the "Mormons" and attempts to drive the elders from the towns in which they were seeking to establish a foothold. But this is not surprising when one stops to consider that the elders were endeavoring to convert members from the very sects whose churches they were occupying. Latter-day Saint Headquarters were nearly always established under fairly desirable conditions. Indeed though, with the exception of the temples and the beautiful tabernacle in Salt Lake City, grandeur in any form was unknown to the "Mormons." Gradually this order has changed. In the European missions some very fine chapels have been erected; the one in Denmark is exceptionally handsome. Although in other lands some are located in the very poor districts, and thus signify that there is yet much to do, much satisfaction can be derived from what has already been accomplished. Present headquarters in the different countries are very estimable, and in many places interested people from any station in life need have no aversion to entering the "Mormon" meeting houses. In America, Canada, and Hawaii other temples have been built; still more are planned. In Washington, D. C. one of the most interesting features of the city is the Latter-day Saint chapel with its fine organ. The organ is becoming almost as well known as the historic tabernacle instrument. The person in charge of the chapel must of necessity be a well-educated cultured man as well as a musician, for it is he who represents Mormonism to all those who visit this chapel as non-members. Mormonism is no longer primarily confined to a condition of impoverishment. Church organizations are seldom limited to only that which is humble in life. Now it is to the glory and the praise of the Church that it can put forward a beautification program. The power of emotion exerts a tremendous influence upon our religious tendencies. There is no question that beautiful surroundings should cultivate a spirit of reverence, order, and godliness as an intrinsic part of one's attitude in his church attendance and in his communion with the Lord. Beautiful surroundings should be an influence for good in the lives of children who are prone to disrespect. Just as Temple Square in Salt Lake City has been beautified with statues of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, the Seagull monument, and the monument to The Three Witnesses, lovely gardens, and excellent upkeep, it would be a fine venture if each ward and stake throughout the Church would do something in keeping with the spirit of Temple Square. The beautification program must go forward. If our forebears could sacrifice as they did for the sake of the temples, surely the church members of this generation can support the plan for finer buildings, improved surroundings, and an increased number of temples and chapels throughout the United States and foreign lands. But just as the gospel truths once stood for all the beauty that the people knew, no material surroundings, no matter how lovely they may become, must ever be allowed to displace the beauty of the spiritual values. Even as the angel Moroni himself delivered the golden plates into the hands of the boy prophet, and just as his statue represents all that is beautiful in art as he stands with uplifted trumpet announcing the Restoration of the Gospel, let this symbol of beauty serve by way of contrast as the key to humility through remembrance of the humble material surroundings in the origin of the Church as well as the glorification of our spiritual beginnings. The imagery of the angel is the covenant which binds thought with emotion, remembrance of the past with the hope of the future.
Activities
1. Find examples in your community of how beautification of public buildings or recreation centers has changed for the better the spirit and attitude of those who frequent the area.
2. Occasionally one sees a ward amusement hall where the furnishings and walls are marred and defaced, and the surroundings are unkempt. Discuss the influence of such conditions upon the general discipline of the ward.
3. Discuss the advantage to each ward of an artistically decorated and well-furnished room for Relief Society meetings.
Child Guidance
Lesson 8
MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD
FOR many years, one of the greatest concerns of parents and doctors has been the physical health of the child, and great strides have been made in reducing infant and childhood mortality. But what about the mental health of our children? We have seldom thought much about that, yet the problem of mental illness in recent years has come to be as great as that of all the physical ills put together. According to recent census reports for United States, hospitals for the mentally ill have 500,000 beds compared with only 525,000 for all other hospitals combined. One reason for the large number of mental hospital beds is that mental cases usually remain much longer than ordinary hospital cases. The number of hospital beds does not tell the real story about the seriousness of mental illness. The world is strewn with character failures, cranks, and all manner of unstable and neurotic individuals who may never become ill enough to need to be placed in an institution. According to a study made in New York State, one person out of every twenty-two in the general population becomes a patient in a mental hospital at some time in his life. In a certain number of cases, bodily disease, accidental injuries, or poisonous conditions are the cause; but in the majority of cases, the individual's personality fails in one respect or another without any clear-cut physical cause. Many of these failures are probably the natural result of defective training in the art of living, training which begins in the cradle. A set of personality tendencies may serve the child well while he has no responsibilities and while he lives in the home that nurtured him. Often when the stress and strain of adolescence comes, however, the childish methods which served well in the home fail in the crisis of finding one's way in an adult world. Little wonder that adolescence is a harvesting period for all the bad training of childhood, and hence a period during which nervous breakdowns are common, and milder failures are innumerable.
To preserve the mental health of the child is the parent's greatest responsibility. For what profit has the child if he is healthy in body, but sick in spirit? Mothers may be concerned as to how to tell when the child is mentally well. Mental illness has a beginning in small ailments of the mind. Perhaps the simplest guide to the mental health of the child is found in this question: Is the child happily engaged most of the time in activities that are socially acceptable? If he plays vigorously at games that are not disapproved by his community and which are enjoyed by most other children of his age, if he is happy in his home, if at school he finds worth while tasks that are enjoyable?then he is on the road to mental health.
Mental health is such a complicated condition that the simple key given above may not give the true picture. Morgan says that "When any child is habitually markedly different in any respect from the rest of his group, he needs further study." Balance of one's personality characteristics is the basis of mental health; abiding happiness is usually the evidence of mental health. Mental health means efficiency in living so as to satisfy in the least conflicting manner all of one's legitimate wants or needs. Disregard for the rights of others, for example, brings loss of good-will and help when it is needed, and therefore it does not satisfy efficiently all of one's needs.
Some conditions that favor mental health will be discussed briefly. This list of conditions does not pretend to cover the entire field, but only those conditions that are considered most essential and which have been touched upon in this course of lessons.
First of all, mental health calls for bodily health. The value we put on life varies almost directly with the "zest for living" we feel in our bodies. A happy spirit increases body tone and physical health. Conspicuous physical deformities, as previously shown, cause distressing conflicts for which successful compensations are not always achieved.
Second, ability to withstand pain and disappointment without expecting everyone we meet to join in the grief is a great help in a world in which pleasure and pain, joy and sorrow, success and failure are inevitably mixed almost every day of our lives. Children who are inadequate in physical ability or in leadership qualities often fall prey to the desire to be coddled, to enjoy ill-health, and perhaps to think that the satisfying of their own needs is the all-important business of those with whom they have intimate association. This weakness is frequently encountered in adults: the mother who gets sick to arouse the sympathy and interest of a father who is negligent, or the father who complains of his little pains and troubles to gain a sympathy and tolerance he cannot find in a hostile business world.
Third, the child must have a sense of being wanted in the home. Adopted children and children in broken homes often have poor mental health and are consequently more often delinquent than average children?partly because they feel insecure in their homes and in the affections of their parents. This type of lingering distress produces more nervous fatigue than does a good day's work. Little wonder the unwanted child is often nervous!
Fourth, mental health is hardly possible to the child who is a victim of besetting fears and dreads. "Bogey men" are real to children, however silly they seem to adults. Willful frightening of children is as vicious as feeding them impure food. Fears and dreads rob sleep of its restoring power and set up certain internal secretions which interfere with digestion; and, worst of all, they leave the mind beside itself and in as distressed a condition as a stomach afflicted with indigestion. Have you ever seen a child who is afraid to appear really happy? Some of our over-zealous preaching brings in all sorts of threats of impending evils and dire results of misconduct. A sense of sin sometimes results and brings that horrible dread of punishment for this life or the hereafter. For a child who hardly knows right from wrong, this type of teaching is definitely detrimental to his mental health. Better teach positively, as the Master did, that "he that endureth to the end shall be saved," that the pure in heart shall be blessed by seeing God, and that if we wish others to do good to us we should do so to them.
Fifth, the child who has the habit of taking greater interest in people and activities than in himself and the products of his imagination is usually happy. He is the one who develops a good personality because he practices more in getting along with the world of people and things. The unsocial child is usually unhappy and is more likely to develop mental illness than the active and sociable one, even though the latter may be more mischievous. Since personality grows out of the child's effort to get along with people, his living in a world of his own thoughts and troubles does not contribute much to his personality growth. Real interest in other people means a liking for them and freedom from hate, jealousy, and lingering grudges. A child cannot be happy when nursing these unpleasant emotions.
Sixth, the happy child's greatest interest is in today, then tomorrow, with only a passing interest in yesterday. Looking back, as a habit, is to be discouraged. "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." The over-conscientious child is likely to regret his mistakes longer than he should. The adult with a future closing in ahead of him, looks back to borrow a moment of joy from yesterday. But if looking back takes the place of the joy of today and the anticipation of the future, it is dangerous to one's mental health. When a child runs up against difficult conditions which call for a revising of his habits on a more mature or grown-up level, he sometimes runs back (or regresses) into childhood and tries to use a more childish device for gaining his ends. Adults sometimes have the same fault. The healthy minded child seeks new challenges each day and drives ahead toward becoming more manly, more grown up. He shuns all appearances of childish ways.
Seventh, every child to keep happy must have tasks at his mental level. This means that he must be given work or play that is difficult enough to challenge the best in him, but easy enough that he can "see through" to the goal. This point was treated more thoroughly in a previous lesson.
Finally, a father and mother who are mentally well, understanding, loving (but not over-indulgent) are the most essential guarantee of the mental health of the child. Bad attitudes in the home are contagious. A home atmosphere of consideration for others, free from nagging, hostility, and thoughtless preaching is the greatest mental hygiene asset a child can have. Severe hostility among the children contributes greatly to their unhappiness and is an indication of poor training in the home.
In the schools, these same conditions are essential, but too often not found. Teachers with disagreeable dispositions and other striking personality difficulties should not be permitted to retard the learning processes of the child by making the whole classroom situation unpleasant. Congenial companionship with other children at school is also important to the mental health of the child. The school bully and the chronic delinquent child are often stumbling blocks to the children who may have come from the best of homes, and these bad influences can seldom be disposed of directly. The parent often has to resort to helping the child to fight his own battles and find his own way, because life is notoriously cluttered up with a certain amount of these unpleasant and unwholesome influences; and the child should be taught how to stand on his own feet in the presence of them.
Problems for Discussion
1. What does mental hygiene mean to you in your home? Contrast it with physical hygiene.
2. What does poor home training have to do with filling our institutions for the mentally ill and social failures? (Mental hospitals, penitentiaries, industrial schools.)
3. What is the effect on a child's mental health when he withdraws from play and spends an undue amount of time with his thoughts and troubles?
4. What do you consider the three most essential conditions for mental health in children? What can you do to provide them for your children?
5. Name a few signs of mental health in children and show the significance of each.

"