Practical Praying
By Elsie C. Carroll
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Uttered or unexpressed."
TO Latter-day Saints, perhaps more than to most people, praying is a very significant part of their creed. We believe in the formal prayer. We have been exhorted to attend to our prayers as individuals, night and morning, and instructed, as heads of families, to call our children together at the opening and the close of each day to engage in family prayers. We open and close our religious services with prayer, and, what seems strange to some people not of our faith, we pray at the beginning and end of all formal gatherings, such as educational meetings, entertainments, and dances. We are a praying people, in this restricted sense of the term, but even more in its broader meaning.
To most of us, prayer is more than kneeling down and going through the set form of thanking God for his past blessings and supplicating him for a continuation of his protection and guidance. True, this form of prayer has its place. Even though it may become stereotyped and little more than a form it has its benefits. Some people who go so far as to deny the existence of God believe there is good to be gained in addressing, as in prayer, some superhuman force which they do not attempt to define. One such man testifies that prayer gives him the proper attitude with which to face his work each day; it contributes to his success and happiness. Ella Wheeler Wilcox in one of her poems says:
"I do not undertake to say That literal answers come from heaven: But I know this, that when I pray A comfort, a support is given."
BUT upon that other phase of prayer, prayer in its larger sense. Much might also be said and written. There come times in the lives of many of us when it seems impossible to kneel down and address our Creator in words. Perhaps the very attempt would make us recoil, for the time, in bitterness because of disappointment and sorrow; because perhaps we have recently knelt and prayed for something, dearer than life itself, and our prayers seemed of no avail. At such times we cannot sense what perhaps we may later come to understand, or what we may never understand in this life?that there may have been some reason why our prayers could or should not be answered. But just because we cannot kneel down and utter words is no reason why we cannot pray if we accept this broader meaning of the word.
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, Uttered or unexpressed; The motion of a hidden fire That trembles in the breast."
I feel that I am praying when I am thrilled with feelings of thanksgiving, or aspiration, or reverence as I look at a beautiful landscape, or a great work of art, or when I read a literary masterpiece or listen to great music. The prayer may be a desire to live more fully or nobly, or a desire to achieve; it may be a "motion of the fire" of a new thought or of a glimpse of some hitherto unrealized beauty.
I feel that I am praying when I express, even though not with the satisfaction of completeness in beauty, some emotion within myself. To write down those sincere desires, or "stirrings of hidden fires" is a form of prayer, or to respond to such expressions recorded by others. Often, if I cannot express what I feel, I can find someone else who has said what I would say, and to read those prayers of others, gives uplift to my soul, the strength which I need, which is the purpose of prayer.
ONCE when I felt the need to pray, and could not do it in the formal way, I read each night and morning for a time this little prayer of William De Witt Hyde's and tried to think how it could help in my life.
"Give me clean hands Clean words, clean thoughts. Help me to stand for the hard right Against the easy wrong. Save me from habits that harm. Teach me to work as hard And play as fair in thy sight alone As if the whole world saw. Forgive me when I am unkind And help me to forgive Those who are unkind to me. Keep me ready to help others At some cost to myself. Send me chances to do A little good every day So I may grow more like Christ."
I like this prayer because it is practical. It has seven distinct supplications?one for each day of the week. If I consciously try to make that prayer come true for me each week I cannot help being a better person.
"Give me clean hands Clean words, clean thoughts."
Perhaps it is not difficult for us to keep our hands and our words clean. The conventions of society and the inhibitions of law help us to do that. But are we always as careful with our thoughts? Because they are concealed from others we may need to exercise greater strength to keep them clean. I once heard the late Dr. George H. Brimhall relate a personal experience of a struggle in the matter of clean thinking. He said that once when he was a boy he camped out one night with a group of older men. During the evening as they sat around the fire one of the men told an obscene story. President Brimhall stated that for a long while after this, every time he would come in sight of that camp-ground, the evil story would come to his mind. He determined to blot it from his memory, but found it a difficult task. Finally, however, by a sheer act of will, he made himself think of the great deeds of some noble character whenever he was passing that place, and so substituted good for evil in his thinking. "Help me to stand for the hard right Against the easy wrong." Too often we are tempted to do what the crowd does even though it may be against our principles or against the teachings of our church. We sometimes have a false idea of what it means to be a good sport. This is particularly a temptation facing the young people of today; the "easy wrong" is often made so much more attractive than the "hard right." "Save me from habits that harm." Too often we think of habits as only including physical and moral - behavior. I may have harmful mental habits which keep me from my highest achievement. For instance, I may have the habit of wasting precious time in fruitless day-dream- PRACTICAL PRAYING ing instead of utilizing it in working to make my dreams come true. I may have the habit of rationalizing, of refusing to face facts and to think through the problems which confront me. I may be guilty of mental compromises which destroy the most precious thing I can possess, my intellectual integrity. "Teach me to work as hard and play as fair In thy sight alone As if the whole world saw." It is so much easier to work hard if we know the boss, or some one who can reward or advance us, is watching, than to do our best just because we cannot be satisfied with anything less. "Forgive me when I am unkind, And help me to forgive Those who are unkind to me." To hold grudges is one of the most harmful things I can do to my own personality. It warps my vision; shrinks my soul. To forgive to the point of forgetting is not easy, but it is one of the great achievements in character building. "Keep me ready to help others At some cost to myself." We find it easy to help those whom we think can help us. But suppose by helping others we must make 117 some sacrifice in money, social prestige, pride? We do need help to be strong enough to do that! At one time I lived at the International House where students from all over the world lived as equals. I felt sure that I had little race prejudice, but when a girl arrived from West Africa, and I realized how much she needed a friend to help her make necessary adjustments, I had to keep repeating that part of this little prayer over when I sat with her at the table, walked down the street with her, and met friends who couldn't understand what I was trying to do. "Send me chances to do a little good every day." We don't need to pray for chances. They are here all about us, waiting to be seen and embraced. My chance today may be to help a homesick little girl from West Africa to feel that America is the land of democracy and opportunity she and her parents dreamed it to be. Yours may be to comfort a little child, or cheer an old person, or give confidence to a discouraged husband, or a word of encouragement to a weary neighbor. Our chance may be, in a time of general depression and doubt, merely to keep smiling and looking ahead hopefully and with courage?constantly alert for new ways to pray.