On Lamps
By Harrison R. Merrill
MY friend, Ralph Waldo Emerson, has the habit of saying great things in a most entrancing manner. Like the wise men of old, he needs few words in which to couch his weighty thoughts. In his essay on "Art," this major teacher said: "The hand can never execute anything higher than the character can inspire." On the face of it, that is a simple statement, but when one looks all around and even inside it, one discovers that the sentence has hidden recesses in which lie many suggestive meanings. Simple though they were and old as some of them really are, the truths uttered by Jesus, for instance, had to be uttered by a God to make them authentic. "He talks as one having authority?or character," his listeners were wont to say, "and not as the scribes?men without character?repeaters of the law rather than creators of it." We have all, upon occasion, heard some uncelebrated person exclaim, after having heard a speech by a celebrated one, "What did he say that I couldn't say?" What, indeed! Nothing at all that one could not utter with his lips and tongue, but the celebrated one spoke with his life?his character. If one would be a great artist, then one must be first of all a great person. Creative art whether it be sculpture, painting, music, dancing, or architecture, grows up from the soul of the creator.
AND now to my lamps. My friend Emerson caused me to write that preamble; a contemporary friend, bearing testimony, caused me to select as my subject?lamps. Lamps, like almost everything else I can think of in this world, have had a wonderful growth. Many of us can remember the old days when candles were used frequently and the older ones in the community can remember when they were thought to afford a fine light. Many of us know the old time "bitch," that dish of tallow in which a piece of rag was placed as a wick. Beside a bitch, a candle is an excellent light. Kerosene or coal-oil was a wonderful discovery or invention. By means of it, lamps became more efficient. Wicks and burners and chimneys and chandeliers followed in quick succession. These new lamps were very efficient and made the light of a candle seem wholly inadequate. Then came gas lamps and carbide lamps and electric lamps. That was a great day, a little more than half a century ago, when Thomas A. Edison made his first incandescent lamps. It is altogether fitting that an incandescent lamp should be kept burning in Menlo Park, East Orange, New Jersey, in memory of that day, for that kind of lamp has turned "our darkness into day." I visited Menlo Park. To me it is a sacred shrine.
I've always thought it strange that incandescent lamps were so long in coming. The first blacksmith, whoever he was, who made a piece of metal glow, should have thought of the possibility of making glowing metal give off light, but he did not seem to. It remained for Edison to see the possibilities. Gas mantels, mantels for coal-oil lamps, and glowing carbon in electric light globes all came together. Those first electric light globes were poor things, compared with ours of today. A great deal of electricity was required to make the wires glow and even then they gave off more heat than light, but the idea was born and men were on the way toward light-bulb perfection. Today we have these highly efficient mazda, tungsten lamps, some of them gas-filled. We have flash bulbs and flood lights and neon lights. The world has suddenly become beautiful at night instead of black and sinister.