Women's Responsibility to Citizenship By Elva T. Cowley HE citizen of today is facing one of the most momentous eras in the world's history; an era in which we may well pause to say "whither are we going?" Weare living in the midst of great turmoil. Men may say it is a struggle for the supremacy of this or that form of government, but it really is a conflict of ideals, a conflict of differing conceptions of human rights, of justice, and of what shall constitute the wellbeing of the human race. Thus as citizens of this present day, we are challenged to maintain the standards, aims, and ideals of our forefathers. It was our forefathers who procured for themselves the rights and liberties which they have handed down to us in the form of government under which we live. We are indebted to those brave ancestors of ours whom we call founders, for our present civilization, our homes, schools, and our general well-being. We owe much to those men and women who braved unknown dangers, without friends, homes, or any of the common necessities of our existence, to cast their lot in a new world. If the women as well as the men had not been made of the stuff of heroes, we perhaps never would have known the joys of a land of liberty and all it implies. Therefore we should not be indifferent to present-day civic and political problems and the responsibility resting upon us to preserve this great democracy which is our heritage. Looking back over history, we are well aware that it took long centuries of struggle to win a democratic government through which the people have the power to rule their own affairs, to win a government of rights and privileges; a government whose founders pronounced that each individual should be equal to every other individual in his right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This government of ours was planned for the sole benefit of its citizens. It furnishes man the means of establishing a home. It gives him protection and security. It supplies educational opportunity, recreation, and leisure. It gives man individual rights in courts, the opportunity to earn an honest livelihood. It affords political activity, the right to vote, and the right to worship God according to the dictates of conscience. There are, however, many things besides rights among the essentials of good citizenship, and these are the things we must pause to consider if we as a people shall continue on an upward course and attain the highest degree of peace, happiness, and security. There are obligations we, as citizens, owe to our government and to each other. If we are going to perpetuate the ideals of liberty and combat the conflicting forces which seem to be undermining governments today, we must sense our obligations. IN order to be good citizens we should feel obligated to develop a high order of intelligence through education, and use that WOMEN'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CITIZENSHIP 87 intelligence to promote the common good. We should have an appreciation of human values, well-balanced judgment, a profound sense of obligation to service, and an obligation to have good characters and be obedient to the laws. We should use our voting power, in order that we may select individuals of high quality to direct the affairs of state and also develop a readiness to abide by the will of the majority and respect the rights of the minority. Often not fifty percent of those qualified to vote turn out at election to cast ballots. Too frequently many of those who do go to the polls are inadequately informed on the questions which they are called upon to decide on election day. We cannot maintain by inertia the high standards and ideals of our ancestors. We can maintain them only by using our efforts to secure higher standards of public service, to secure a higher sense of loyalty. We must become conscious of our civic responsibilities, and must be awakened to those forces always in our midst which tend to tear down the fundamentals and start a new order of things. How are we going to meet these obligations, to develop such qualities? We are going to call upon the women of the nation, the mothers of the race, to train themselves, to educate themselves, in social, civic and political affairs in order that they will be better able to train the individual from childhood, to be intelligent, loyal and law-abiding. HE first social unit to appear in man's evolution was 'the family. As far as is now known the headship of this unit was first vested in the mother. Women was one of the earliest burden bearers of the race. From the time the rudest home of primitive man was established, her work there made of her a jack-of-all-trades. It early became woman's part to secure food for her family. It was she who, in doing this, first invented ways of cultivating, harvesting, and preserving vegetable foodstuffs. She also developed the textile arts and did practically all of the weaving until machinery was invented. It fell to woman to dress the skins of animals and make garments of them. It was the woman who developed the art of making pottery and other types of decorative art. She early became the patroness of religion, for she appears in the character of priestess in many primitive cults and was the guiding influence for good in her home. Thus through the long ages of human evolution woman shared her full portion of the burdens and responsibilities of home and family. As producer, artisan, economist, and administrator, she measured up in that primitive era to our corresponding ideas of good citizenship. Then there appeared the fatherright in family control. Out of the family, as it developed and branched, came the tribe or clan with its patriarchal ruler. Then came that period during the Roman Empire that woman's liberty was limited and she was given inferior rank, remaining that way for centuries. T has been a long and tedious struggle for woman to come again into her own rights and be considered as man's equal. For years woman struggled for her franchise, her right to vote. For years she struggled for a place in  the world of business and for a voice in the affairs of state. In 1840 according to Harriet Martineau there were only seven employments open to women in the United States. These were teaching, needlework, keeping boarders, working in cotton mills, book binderies, type setting, and household service. Since the World War, women have been given every opportunity to forge ahead. Their influence is being felt in every activity of life, in government and in business. THE family is the base of all social progress. The woman is and must be the central figure in the home. She has come to realize that in order to protect her home she must go outside of it to study the influences that threaten its security. We believe with George Elliot Howard that as the ideal of the family rises, civilization advances. Although many forces have altered the function and structure of the home from primitive times, when it was the center of production and activity, the familv still remains the most powerful educational agency in society. In the popular mind the home is still almost entirely responsible for the mental and moral development of the child during the first six years of life and as the mother spends more time with her children than the father or anyone else, it is she who forms the character of these individuals, the future citizens of the nation. GREAT responsibility there- ' fore rests upon woman. It is her duty in order to make of her children good citizens, to first be one herself and be interested in activities that affect her home. Second, she must see that her children are physically fit through proper diet and nutrition. In contributing to the mental health of her children she must teach them to think clearly and act promptly. She must cooperate with the school. Many of the troubles of children in school have: their origin in home conditions. It is essential that the school have the opportunity of visiting the homes and helping the solution of children's problems and just as essential that parents visit the school and assist in the solution of its problems. It is the duty of parents to teach their children morality, proper sanitation, temperance, obedience, honesty, purity, unselfishness, and love; to teach them reverence and devotion and make of the home a spiritual center. We must make plain to our youth the tremendous significance of the family as the social unit and must teach the sacredness of marriage and motherhood as a guaranty of social purity and individual respectability. If we neglect our duty, we may unconsciously become accomplices to the great army of criminals which are infesting America today and to those unsocial individuals who attempt to destroy governments. ACCORDING to J. Edgar Hoover, Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in a speech delivered April 23, 1936, to Daughters of the American Revolution, their files show that there are actually three million convicted criminals. Beyond this he said there are enough more with police records to demonstrate that an average of one out of every 25 persons in the United States has at least had his brush with law enforcement agencies and is inclined WOMEN'S RESPONSIBILITY TO CITIZENSHIP 89 toward criminality, that there are in America today 150,000 murderers roaming at large?also that twenty percent of crime is the work of persons who have not yet reached the voting age. He said we have youth in crime because we have failed to provide youth with proper outlets and upbringing. In most instances children are driven to crime because of deep-laid fauits in society, such as poverty, degeneracy and because of their elders' neglect, laxity in early discipline, apathy on the part of parents and neglect by those of the community who should help the helpless. We must beware also, for political alliance with crime exists in community, state, and nation; political protection is given. To the criminal and the racketeer in many communities. It is for us to see that such evils are wiped out. AMERICA grew and prospered by unswerving loyalty to high ideals, by unfaltering respect and reverence for the law, and by the kindly watchful care of mothers over their children and homes. Our boys and our girls are the seedlings of America to grow and develop as their parents and surroundings direct. The man and woman of yesterday we know. There is no doubt about their future as citizens. They had courage, pioneer courage, and the patience of saints. They knew the full meaning of the words loyalty and patriotism. They built for us a nation greater than all other nations. It is for us to preserve it with all its fundamentals, its standards, and ideals. We the citizens of today and tomorrow can only do it by active intelligence and good judgment. If government is to spring from the common people of a nation, they must have such qualities as shall enable them to select experts who will conduct the affairs of state in the interest of all the governed. Our intellect is the only instrument that we possess whereby we may hope to direct our own lives or to meet the situations that confront us. It is therefore imperative for every one of us to train judgment, to add to knowledge, and to increase wisdom. If we do this we will have better homes, better communities, and a greater nation, and be able to meet our present-day problems.