Music Department E are happy to acknowledge the receipt of many interesting letters from Stake Choristers and others regarding participation in the musical program of the Relief Society General Conference, to be held April Ist and 2nd, 1938. We also appreciate the inquiries that have been sent in asking for help in phrasing, tempos, etc. Because of the importance of these inquiries, it has been deemed advisable to publish some of the questions asked?also the replies?in order that all may have the same understanding of such details. Some of the questions asked are as follows: Ques. In the song, "Crossing The Bar," would it be permissible to breathe after the word "asleep"? Ans. Yes, because the point of punctuation follows the word "asleep." Ques. In the song, "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings," how may the long phrases be taken care of? Ans. Individual breathing may be used successfully for this number. Ques. Please give Tempo for "How Lovely are the Messengers." Ans. Andante con moto (eighth note=132) (slow, but with a little motion). Ques. What are the requirements for joining the Singing Mothers' Chorus? Ans. Memorization of the following selections (as published in the November issue of the Relief Society Magazine) according to tempo, intonation, phrasing, enunciation and pronunciation: 'How Lovely Are the Messengers" Mendelssohn Andante con moto (eighth note =132 (slow, but with a little motion) "Crossing the Bar''.... Barnby-Asper Andante (a slow movement; quiet, peaceful tempo) "The 23rd Psalm"............ Schubert Adagio non troppo (slowly? not too much) "Holy Redeemer"............ Marchetti Andante (slow?in a smooth, dignified, singing style) "The Lord's Prayer".. Forsyth-Dews Largamente (broadly, slowly, with dignity) "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings, O Lord" ou... Rheinberger Moderato (quarter note?80) (In moderate tempo) "Inflammatus" Chorus only.. Rossini Andante maestoso (quarter note) (slow, majestic, with dignity) ' Phrases?Technically, an incomplete musical sentence. Phrasing?Is the art of dividing a melody into groups of connected sounds so as to bring out its greatest musical effect. With phrases, long or short, the breath must be taken and controlled. With a long phrase, the individual singers, by taking short natural breaths, may be supplied with fresh air and the tone kept singing so as to make the chord or phrase hold over to its logical end. But, as no two singers will take a breath in precisely the same place, breathing must also occur at natural places of punctuation to conform with the chorus phrasing. Inquiries have been received concerning blouses and skirts. May we again call your attention to the article in the November magazine. On page 704 of that issue you will find detailed instructions covering meas- MUSIC DEPARTMENT urements of blouse, materials to be used, etc. If further information is desired please do not hesitate to ask for it. We welcome these inquiries. The uniform dress of the Singing Mothers consists of a white blouse and a tailored skirt of very dark material?black preferred. Skirt to be of average length?not too short. If unable to purchase gold buttons (such as those recommended for the blouse) in your own community, arrangements have been made with the F. W. Woolworth Company, 223 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, to take care of any order you send to them. Inasmuch as April lst and 2nd have been designated as the days for holding the Relief Society Confer- 129 ence, it is desired that all groups of Singing Mothers assemble for the first rehearsal at 9:30 a. M., March 31, 1938, in the Assembly Hall. At that time Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett will give further instructions as to the time of holding part rehearsals. These will be held in the Tabernacle. Two days of intensive drilling will be necessary. We are looking forward to seeing you at that time. If there are any stakes that have not notified the office of their intention to join this Chorus, please write immediately as it will help materially in completing arrangements in Salt Lake. Please refer to magazine each month as definite information will be given pertaining to tone, intonation, and memorization.