Motto?Charity Never Faileth; 126 day Saint leaders by giving them opportunity to obtain the best in learning as well as to enjoy the spiritual influence of outstanding men and women. Wise and intelligent leaders are essential in the Church. It is not sufficient to give time only in the particular field in which service is being rendered, but all possible education and training must be included. Education is a part of the religion of the Latter-day Saints. President Brigham Young has said, "The Father does not add to that which we do not improve upon, but we are continually required to improve upon the knowledge we already possess, and thus obtain a store of wisdom." This is the method by which we are able to make the richest contributions to the Church. The theme of Leadership Week, "The Security of Zion," is the goal for which all Latter-day Saints are striving. Social, economic and spirRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE itual security are essential to the well-being of man. The Relief Society has been entrusted by the Prophet Joseph Smith with definite responsibilities in the security of Zion. It is for us to foster love of religion, love of education, culture and refinement, to strengthen community virtues and to manifest benevolence. These trusts were ably discussed and guidance given during the week by General Board members as well as by guest speakers. The University was most gracious in programming special lectures to assist us in the Theology and Work and Business Departments. The Relief Society appreciates the opportunity afforded by the Brigham Young University to participate in this important program as well as the opportunity provided us to receive leadership training through the widely varied lectures and activities. Book Notice BROTHERHOOD True Charity will never scorn A weaker soul to trials born; Oft spotless records have been made Because temptation never laid Its fingerprints on every page From helpless youth to hopeless age. Christ taught mankind to seek the