Os] rEverelt: More Than Bread By Anna Prince Redd A PLAY IN ONE ACT: TWO SCENES CAST OF CHARACTERS Aunt Forses?A wealthy, unmarried woman about seventy-five. Very intelligent and still handsome. She is "crotchety," tired of the sham and superficiality that surrounds her. Is becoming retrospective. ORLENE Ordway?Her sophisticated niece. Nineteen; pretty, but artificial looking. Philip Ordway-?-Brother of Orlene; with inventive tendencies; held down by his mother and Orlene to a round of society. Jimmy?A foundling Aunt Forbes has just acquired, to the disgust of her relatives. Terry Lowper ? Aunt Forbes' young lawyer. ANN WELLS ? Granddaughter of Aunt Forbes' girlhood friend, Margaret White. SCENE I The curtain rises on a beautifully furnished, restful living room. May be as elaborate as desired, but must retain an air of liveableness and good taste. Two chairs are at right angles to the grate in which a low fire burns. Orlene and AUNT Forbes are seated in these chairs, ORLENE nearest the audience. There is soft light in the room. ORLENE is restless and ill at ease. As curtain rises she leans forward questioningly. ORLENE: But Aunt Forbes, if you must have her here why not have had Phil and me come later? You know how he detests girls, unless they're ultra-everything. You've tried getting him interested in your proteges before. Aunt Forses: Phil would be a perfectly normal boy if you and your mother would let him alone. I don't give a sou whether he likes her or not. For a year I've been arguing a point with "Terry concerning my will. (ORLENE looks worried) Her presence here is necessary to prove my point or justify Terry's skepticism. It is essential that we know the girl intimately. It suits me to have you know her too. At the end of two weeks I will make my will. (ORLENE is more nervous) But with Terry here I imagine your visit, at least, will not be unpleasant. ORLENE: Really? That does save the situation. It's hard to remember that Terry's your lawyer. Aunt Forses: I suppose so. He should be a slightly neurotic young man, that I pay ten thousand a year to dance attendance upon you. (She walks testily, with cane, to window center R. And looks out. ORLENE toys restlessly with objects on a small table.) Can't see a thing for trees! Hedge myself about with a forest so the curious will be shut out and then I can't see out! ORLENE: It's past train time. Joseph has had time to bring her from the station! Aunt Forses (not turning): Joseph! I sent no servant. I sent Terry Lowder to meet Margaret White's granddaughter. You moderns would have left her to find MORE THAN BREAD 97 her way alone and likely would have forgotten to give her the address. ORLENE (breathlessly): Aunt Forbes, why are you bringing her here? AunT Forses (evasively): Oh, she may be just a type that I'm interested in. I'm sick to death of this fast-living age. I may just want to see if old-fashioned girls still exist, or if they all succumb to wealth and position as Terry says they do. (ORLENE goes swiftly to her chair. AUNT FORRBES, relenting, follows.) I suppose you're the product of your society mother, an impractical father and my money! (She means this to be kindly but ORLENE ts stung by it.) ORLENE (jumping up, back to fireplace): You're always saying things like that! If it hadn't been for mother, Dad would have been a mere mechanic in spite of his education. He can't resist tinkering with greasy black machinery even yet. He buys cars just to tear them to pieces and put them together again. Phil would be just like him if Mother didn't keep hammering ideals into him. Sometimes I think you actually approve of the way they do! Aunt Forses: Are society and money everything? ORLENE (angrily): Well, you've always had money. Only those who have it, enjoy the luxury of despising it. I believe you've just adopted this waif, Jimmy, to prove that mother is wrong! (She walks away.) TERRY (outside): Don't bother, Joseph, we'll announce ourselves. (A moment of tense expectancy and TERRY enters with a lovely brownhaired girl, fresh and eager-looking, dressed modishly. She is a distinct shock to both women. Terry is beaming.) Terry: Well, here we are, Mrs. Forbes! (He doesn't see ORLENE, who stands R.) Miss Ann Wells. ANN (hesitates, then comes forward naturally): Mrs. Forbes, it was nice of you to ask me to visit you in your home. Mother has told us about the beautiful friendship between you and her mother, as long as I can remember. We call you Aunt Jonathan. (ANN laughs a little uncertainly, ORLENE ts still unnoticed, her resentment growing.) Aunt Forses: "Aunt Jonathan!" I like that better than 'Aunt Forbes." (She extends her free hand to ANN, emotion trembling in her face.) How like my Margaret you are! (ANN fakes her hand in both her own. TERRY respectfully turns away. Sees ORLENE. ) Terry: Orlene! I didn't know you were here. I didn't see you! ORLENE (recovering hastily): I'm not surprised, Terry. She's gorgeous enough to blind any man! (ANN sees ORLENE, smiles.) Aunt Forbes: Ann, this is my niece, Orlene Ordway. (They acknowledge the introduction.) 1 want you and Orlene and my nephew, Philip, to go everywhere together? Terry can go along if he likes. Be together as much as possible and if you don't like each other?be together anyway. That's my only request for the two weeks you are here. During this time, all I have is yours, Ann. Orlene can be nice if she wants to. Philip always is. (ORLENE flushes, looks uncomfortable. ANN looks from one to the other, catches the gleam of amusement in Mrs. Fores' eyes and laughs gaily.) Ann: What a stimulating hostess  you turned out to be Aunt (she hesitates) Jonathan. Orlene doesn't look too scared of you, and I'll try to make her task of, caring for me as pleasant as possible. Terry: You were very magnanimous, Mrs. Forbes, to count me in. After all, I have to earn my salary. (laughs) We'll all want to see a lot of Miss Ann. I've been trying to get in her good graces by telling her all about the rest of you, (smiles) mentioning only your good points, of course. Awn: That's right, Aunt Jonathan. Mr. Lowder tells me you have a boy named Jimmy, age eleven. That's just the age I like young men to be. I'm used to being looked after by a boy just his age ?my brother, Bob. Jimmy will keep me from getting lonesome if you will delegate him to look after me too. (During this speech Pui has entered unobserved.) Puiu (laughing): How about an assignment like that for me, Aunt Forbes? Aunt Forses: She just announced that she likes young men aged eleven! ORLENE: Phil should do beautifully. He never acts his age. Terry: Phil would come in! It's a good thing I had my chance with you, coming from the station. I won't be able to edge in at all now that he's on hand. (to Phil) But with Orlene here, J won't mind a bit, old man. (He turns to ORLENE and they converse in low tones.) ANN (smiling approvingly as she sizes up Phil): So you're Phil? How do you do. (extends hand) In Utah everybody shakes hands.. Puit (eagerly taking her hand): It's a swell custom. Me for Utah. Are there any more girls like you out there? ANN: Oh, scores of them! (They laugh, are friends at once.) Aunt Forses (marching to the door C.): Orlene, show Ann her rooms. Phil, tell Joseph to serve dinner in half an hour. Terry, I'll see you in the library. (They all go out. Then JIMMY, in skating togs, comes cautiously in. Looks after ORLENE and ANN. He has been listening in.) Jimmy: Gosh?heck?golly? Well gee! There just aint a word that expresses her! (he looks around guiltily, then corrects himself) There isn't,? (unsatisfied) there aint a word that expresses what I think of her! She's a pipin. And named "Ann" too. That ain't, tsn't, no sissy name. JI wish I could have seen her better. But she said'she wanted me to (rolls the word proudly)?to escort her. That'll make old Phil keep his place! She's goin' to be my girl. That snippy Orlene acts like I'm an intruder around here. (enjoys the word again) But I'll be late for dinner. (turns a cartwheel) Gosh, why can't I be as anxious t' eat as I used t' be when I didn't have anything to eat. Now there's so many exciting things to do that eatin's a contemporary consideration! (goes off whistling.) CURTAIN SCENE TWO Living room, same as act one. ANN and Jimmy are seated before the fire on cushions, turned to audience. It is two weeks later. Jimmy (gazing at ANN adoringly): Gee, Ann, have you really seen Indians like that? Bad Indians that even Uncle Sam couldn't make stay on their reservations. Gosh, MORE THAN BREAD of I didn't think there were any Indians like that only in the early days. ANN: There aren't, any more. But it's only been a few years since the last Indian fight down in southeastern Utah where I live! Jimmy (incredulously): Weren't the "Mormons" afraid of them when they first went way out there to live, so they could have the kind of religion they wanted? Ann: Yes they were, Jimmy, but their leader? Jimmy: Brigham Young! Remember his name. Ann: Yes, Brigham Young. He taught his people to feed the Indians, not fight them. My great grandfather was an Indian interpreter and scout. I wish you could have heard him tell stories of the pioneer days. He was just exactly your's and Bob's age, living away over in South Africa, when he first heard about the prophet Joseph Smith and the "Mormons." Jimmy: South Africa? Was?was he?black? Ann (laughing): No. Jimmy, he was white. His parents were English people whom Queen Elizabeth had sent to Africa to help make colonies there. She gave people grants of land and money to go there and help settle her territory. Grandpa Billy's folks joined the Church and crossed the ocean in an old sail boat, so they could live in Utah with the people of their new faith.
Jimmy: Grandpa Billy. What a nice name. I'd like to have a grandfather to go with Aunt Forbes. She's not a grandmother, but she's every bit as nice as one. Tell me about Grandpa Billy.
ANN (laughing delightedly at JIMMY): Well, this story happened a long time ago. One day Grandpa Billy's father was sent by the government to haul a big wagon box full of oranges up to the natives on the reservation, and he told Billy he could go along. It all seemed very wonderful to the little eight-year-old boy to be going so far from home. His father promised him that he would see something he had never seen before, even in the jungle.
Jimmy: Did they live in the jungle?
ANN: Well, they lived very near it and often went into it, though the little boys never, never, went into it alone! (Jimmy sighs ecstatically) Billy sat very straight in the high seat of the wagon and rode all day. When the afternoon sun began to slant in his face, the oxen were turned into a grassy clearing, a kind of meadow. Right then things began to happen. (Jimmy edges nearer to ANN. "What?" he asks fearfully.) Down from the hillsides, out of the timber, came hundreds of glistening, black-bodied natives. Their sweat-covered bodies gleamed in the sun. Billy clung to his father in fear while his father's servants passed out the oranges to them. They fought over the oranges so ravenously and looked so frightful to the little boy that he expected them to start eating him next. He was glad when the last big native disappeared.
Jimmy (heaving a big sigh of relief): Was that all he got to see?
Ann: That was all he got to see. That night?for the darkness comes down swiftly in the jungle. He never left his father's side for a minute, and he was very glad when the beds were spread and he could pull the covers over his head and put his hand under his father's strong arm as they lay beside each other. He didn't intend to sleep a wink. No sir, not him. The next thing he knew ? (Jimmy hangs on her words) he was staring at the sun through the wagon wheel!
Jimmy (disgustedly): Is that all?
Ann: No! When that sleepy-eyed boy threw back the covers and crawled out from under the wagon where they had made their bed, there stood five of the longest legged creatures you ever saw. He just stared. He was as afraid to move as he had been to go to sleep the night before. The oval bodies of those strange things with feathers on, were balanced crazily on two stilt-like legs. They had long necks, and clumsy flat heads. Their legs and thighs were bare, but their bodies were covered with feathers and were finished off with very small wings. Billy was so curious that he forgot to be afraid. He gave his father a shake and asked excitedly, 'What's that?'
"What in thunderation's what?" his father cried, grabbing for his gun. That scared the birds away. His father began to laugh. "Those are ostriches?didn't I tell you you'd see something you'd never seen before?"
Jimmy (beginning to laugh): I could a told him they were ostriches!
Ann: Of course. But Billy hadn't been to the Zoo, as you have.
Jimmy: He lived where the zoo comes from; I guess I'm not so hot.
Ann: On the way home Billy wanted to ask his father all sorts of questions, but his father was thinking about something else and would scarcely pay any attention to him. So he fell silent and just tried to figure things out for himself. Soon his father said very solemnly, "Son, some day two strangers will come to see us. They will be men of God, and will have a message for us."
"Who told you, father?" Billy asked.
"They will come as surely as I am telling you. They will be dressed in black broadcloth suits and high hats." That night he described these strangers to his wife at the supper table. She said: "You're as visionary as Abraham of old, George." But she knew that many times before they had averted disaster by heeding his premonitions.
Jimmy (in awe): Did they come, Ann?
ANN: Yes, Jimmy. Two years later they came. Just as his father had said they would. Billy was sitting out on the fence, he was the first one to see them. They were dressed just as his father had described them.
Jimmy: I'll bet he got to the house in a hurry to tell his dad!
Ann: They were "Mormon" missionaries, Jimmy. After hearing of their new and wonderful faith the whole family joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Many of their neighbors did, too. And they all crossed the ocean to be with the people of their faith. (The story must be told simply, vividly. Any story of like nature may be used. Near the end of the story AUNT FORBES, ORLENE, PHIL and TERRY have come in unobserved. AUNT FORBES signals for silence. They all listen to the end, much moved. ANN and JIMMY are still engrossed.)
Jimmy: That's the best story you've told me yet. Wait till Phil hears that!
ANN (aghast): Jimmy, you don't go telling these old-fashioned stories to the rest of this household do you?
Jimmy (shamefacedly): Well ? I bragged to Phil that he might take you to dances and operas and places like that, but he can't sit on a cushion with your arm around him and hear stories like I do.
ANN (springing up, looking accusingly at JIMMY): Jimmy, you didn't! (Sees the others in the room. They laugh at his remark. ANN thinks they are laughing at the story she has just told.) I'm afraid I look very unsophisticated to you people, but I'm not ashamed. These stories are very dear to me. I'm proud of my pioneer heritage. I have never felt the need of an apology for it. Our pioneers brought from homes all over the world, a sincerity of purpose and a culture that persecution and starvation could not destroy. That culture was preserved at the cost of physical welfare. My great grandmother's melodian was pulled across the plains in a cart, pulled by men and boys, when they lost their oxen. Women whose feet were frozen and bleeding walked beside the wagon when they might have been riding. Many times it could have been sold for food, but it was not. It was the only thing grandmother took from her home. Violins were carried across the plains by men who had the heart to play them around fires of buffalo chips. Tired feet danced upon the frozen, rutted earth, and laden hearts were lifted up to go a few more weary miles. It was that culture, that innate love of beauty, that guided them in building their homes, their churches, and their sublime temples. It is an essential part of our religion! (She pauses, breathless, looks around. No one speaks. She thinks she has offended them and hurries on brokenly.) I?I do not know why you brought me here, Mrs. Forbes. There has been such a mixture of harshness and kindness, irony and approval, that I have been at a loss to understand why you invited me at all. I knew from my mother that it was grandmother's religion that came between you and her. You were very bitter against the "Mormons." I had hoped your attitude had become more tolerant, as has the attitude of the world.
Aunt Forbes: Sit down, Ann. You are trembling violently. (ANN starts to protest, but she waves everybody to a seat. Sighing with a mixture of pride and defeat.) How like your grandmother you are! Your "Mormon" missionaries have a way of projecting themselves into other people's lives. (ANN and PHILIP protest. She silences them.)?(Here a story of how the missionaries came, may be introduced if desired.) Margaret and I saw a good deal of two of them. Margaret was more susceptible than I was. She joined their church. She was never forgiven by her family. Had she stayed in Boston she could have had all that life has given me,?ease, luxury,? (She breaks off out of deference to ANN's distress.) I'm an old woman, Ann. I'm offering you wealth, which your grandmother threw away. An inheritance that I think you are peculiarly fitted to enjoy?one-third of all my estate!
ANN (has risen, stands defiant beside PHIL, facing AUNT FORBES): Is that why you brought me here? You told my mother it was something vital to your happiness ? your peace of mind!
Aunt Forbes: So it is. More than you know. You have already made a name for yourself as a promising young writer. With money, leisure, and the opportunity for travel and study you may reach the top.
ANN: Here I would have nothing to write about. My heart and soul are bound up with the traditions of my people. Utah is my inspiration. I love every inch of its beauteous soil. I could never be happy and useful anywhere else in the world. Thanks, Aunt Jonathan, but I belong with my people, and I shall never marry outside my own church! (PHIL nods his approval. TERRY and AUNT FORBES exchange looks. ANN looks regretfully from one to the other and fixes her attention upon Jimmy. With a forefinger, brushes a tear from her eye, gallantly assumes a lighter air.)
ANN: Jimmy, when I get that book of pioneer stories written, just as I've told them to you, I'll dedicate it to the two finest boys in the world?you and my brother Bob. You're going to be a great engineer someday and I'll come to walk across your bridge.
Jimmy (his voice trembling): It?It'll be the biggest bridge in the world, Ann, and I'll name it after you! I couldn't be as?
ANN (striving for self-control): I'll go and pack now, Aunt Jonathan. I promised mother I would be back by the seventeenth of March. I'm sorry if I've disappointed you. (Includes everyone, chokes and turns to go off center door.)
PHIL: I'll see you to the station, Ann. Maybe in Utah, too, one of these days. (ANN smiles tremulously and goes out, followed by PHIL.)
TERRY (with dignity and regret): You win, Mrs. Forbes?gloriously.
ORLENE (disbelieving): Can you imagine that! More power to her. Turning down a fortune as coolly as if it were an invitation to dine with the wrong man.
Aunt Forbes (caustically): Ann does not live by bread alone! (TERRY, JIMMY and ORLENE gaze at her, sensing a tragedy they do not understand. JIMMY, eyes shining, stands at the door looking after ANN, then goes out.) At last I know. Margaret's courage, Margaret's sacrifice?Margaret's glorious faith is justified. (She stands like a militant prophetess in the center of the room, as if the others were not there.)
CURTAIN

"Every man is said to have his peculiar ambition. Whether it be true or not, I can say, for one, that I have no other so great as that of being truly esteemed of my fellow-men, by rendering myself worthy of their esteem."?Abraham Lincoln.