Rain at Three Cedars
By Ada Hurst Brown
FLORA poured her dishwater around the roots of the wild cucumber vine which covered the back stoop, almost giving it the dignity of a porch. Then she stood with the dripping pan in one hand while she shaded her blue eyes with the other. Heat waves shimmered destructively across the hundred and sixty; fifty acres of beans drooped the edges of their dusty green leaves toward the red soil as if trying to reach the cool underlayer. On the hill beyond, a field of corn shriveled and its leaves curled inward. The corn was gone. If rain fell within a few days the beans would be saved. In the little corral back of the henhouses and sheds, Grant harnessed the horses for his weekly trip to town.
Flora sighed, and drooped in the heat like the beans. What if Grant knew how significant this trip was to be? What if?she set her lips with determination. There was no use thinking of it. For two weeks now this struggle had been going on within her, and rehashing it was of no use whatever. The letter was written.
Turning, Flora hung the dishpan on a nail beside the door and went into the house. It was a typical dry-farm house?one large room, stove and table in one corner, bed in another. She washed her hands in the wash basin, threw that water also onto the cucumber vine, then walked to the bed and sank wearily upon it. If possible it was hotter inside than it was out. Flora had built only a small cedar-wood fire in the stove to brown some round new potatoes, but the heat still filled the room.
Five summers of it, she thought wearily. Five summers, and defeat each summer. In their first year at Three Cedars there had been a frost in late May, the next year heat and grass hoppers, the following August a sudden hailstorm that had beaten the crops to the ground. Then last year everything had been perfect?plenty of rain, sunshine, all that was needed to bring the crops to maturity. Grant had been elated. The beans?tons of them, white and brown and speckled, had been sacked and sent to the Bean Association at Denver.
"This is the break we've waited for, honey," Grant had thrown his arm around her and danced her about the room. "We'll have a new room and a screen porch?we'll pipe water from the spring?we'll get a second-hand Ford?"
That year the Bean Association went under. The entire community was affected. Taxes went unpaid, women wore percale dresses to church, and Flora carefully sewed another patch on the trousers of Grant's suit. And now?of all the insane things?Grant was raising another crop of beans, a crop that might be saved if it rained soon, but for which there was no sale if it were saved.
"WHOA," called Grant outside the back door. Flora sat up as he entered. "Changed your mind about going to town, honey? Better come along. Do you good." He poured water from the kettle on the stove into the wash basin.
"No, it's too hot, Grant; aren't you going to shave?"
Grant splashed water over his face. "Don't think so," he mumbled. "Make my face sore."
Flora didn't argue the point. She rose slowly from the bed like an old woman, and reached under the cretonne curtain at the bottom of the home-made cupboard, and extracted two tin pails and a large pan of white eggs. She placed the eggs two at a time into the pails, counting them carefully, until there was only one egg left in the pan.
"Six dozen and a half," she said aloud. "Get a sack of salt, and then you'd better take the rest and get a new shirt. I can't make that one hold out much longer."
Grant was rubbing water on his hair to make it lie straight, and did not answer. Flora raised her fingers to her temples and pressed on them. Silence and heat and dirt! Silence?she wanted to scream and shatter it. But if she did, Grant would not leave her, and Grant must go to town today.
"Anything else?" Flora shook her head and held out the egg-filled pails to him. "You'll go to the postoffice, of course. Oh, yes," very, very casually, "get a stamp to put on my letter to mother." She opened the lid of her old trunk and took out the letter, scarcely breathing as she did so. If anything should happen?if Grant should learn what was in that letter?
"Put it in my pocket," said Grant standing with an egg pail in each hand. Flora placed the letter carefully in the back pocket of his blue denim trousers. He turned and kissed her perfunctorily on the forehead.
FLORA stood in the doorway and watched the wagon until it passed over the hill. Then she went back into the house and threw herself face downward on the bed, with her hands clenched at her sides. Maybe she was a piker. Maybe she would be sorry sometime, but a person couldn't be expected to endure this forever. She thought of Portland?the place of her birth?the clean, rain-washed streets and houses?the broad Willamette moving leisurely and peacefully to the sea?the shops, the theaters?the roses?it was a city of roses instead of a county of beans! She remembered her meeting with Grant?on the dance boat floating along the black river. He had been with an acquaintance of hers, and it had been, if not love at first sight, at least interest that had turned to love within a few weeks. Grant had been so handsome then. He had been in the city just long enough to lose his sunburn, and retain only an interesting tan. His mouth had a fascinating quirk at the corners, and he made love beautifully.
Love! Most of that had been taken out of him in this desert country to which he had insisted upon returning after their marriage. Life was not love and happiness and romance. Life was fighting?fighting against the soil and elements?for existence, for the food one ate, and it had been a losing fight. One had no time nor energy for the niceties of love. One was often too tired to speak....
She had written so bravely to her mother. She had kept her from knowing their circumstances?had made excuses to keep her from coming for a visit last summer. She would have died rather than have let her mother know?
But that was last summer. That was before the Bean Association had taken their beans and failed. Since then she had been torn between her  duty and love for Grant, and her hatred of the way they lived. It had taken an effort to write the letter asking her mother to send for her, but it was done now. The letter had gone, and her mother would come after her. She'd miss Grant, though, and worry about him. She could see him now, plodding alone, fighting alone, nothing to look forward to excepting another day of struggle. She must stop that, or she'd change her mind. After all, Grant had his relatives, his friends. SHE jumped from the bed and rubbed her eyes. She must have been asleep, for it was almost dark. She walked over to the alarm clock on the cupboard, wondering if it had stopped, because it said only fourthirty. Then a sudden flash and a low rumble brought her fully awake. It was vain! The rain for which they had hoped and prayed and despaired of getting. The rain that would put new hope into the hearts of thousands of farmers throughout the district. A fresh, sweet, cool smell came through the door with the first drops. Flora threw a wrap over her shoulders and ran outside. Her halfgrown white leghorns would not have sense enough to get inside the coop. She found them huddled in a corner of the run, picked them up in her apron, and placed them on the roosts with the hens. If it kept raining they would have to' go without their supper that night. She scattered wheat on the floor in case it should become light enough for them to rouse themselves to eat. The rain was coming in sheets now, and Flora stood in the henhouse doorway, watching it. She loved her chickens. She had brought them up from eggs, and their ancestors before them. She had studied everything she could find about them, and Grant had taught her some things. She knew how to distinguish the layers with their long backs, red combs and scaly legs, and their three and four finger spread. She culled the non-layers, and baked them for Sunday dinners. She hoped the young chickens were not wet enough to do them any harm. They would need the eggs next winter to trade at the store for salt and sugar and those things they did not raise on the place. But of course, she would be in Portland next winter. She would be going to shows, shopping for new clothes, living again. Living? Hadn't this been a struggle that was worth while? Wasn't this really living? "THE first fury of the rain passed, and it settled down to a fine drizzle that would last the night. Flora walked out into it, her head bared to the fine mist. The beans had already straightened their leaves, as if to catch every drop of moisture. They stood erect and beautiful in the wet, red soil. In his farming, Grant used the scientific ideas he had learned at the Agricultural college, along with some practical ones of his own. His beans were planted far apart, so there would be more moisture per plant, and they were clean and free from weeds. It would take only one year, one good year of crops and sales, to put them on their feet, to make as much as an ordinary wage earner made in five years. It was ridiculous for her to have thought of leaving Grant. It must have been the heat that had made her write that letter. Why, it would have been like tearing herself to pieces. She and Grant were one, not until death did them part, but for all eternity. RAIN AT THREE CEDARS 85 But how could she explain all that to mother? Mother would be after her as soon as she received that letter. Mother would never understand the worry and heartache and glory of achievement over the soil?over the elements. It would be difficult, but she must think of some way out of it, some way of keeping Grant from learning. "THEN she saw Grant driving in at the gate. He wrapped the reins around the brake and sprang from the wagon, catching her in his arms and carrying her into the house, holding her tight?tight, and kissing her lips as he had not done for months, while the rain water still ran down their faces. Flora caught her breath. "Grant! Whatever on earth?" Grant reached in his back pocket and took out two letters, one of them unstamped. For an instant his face clouded. "Look, I forgot to mail your letter. But wait till you see? you won't blame me?" He drew out a blue slip from the other envelope. It was a substantial check from the Bean Association. A letter stated that there would be another in a month or so, and there was also a contract for this year's beans. "We can have two new rooms. If I build them myself next winter, we could have three. We're going to need three. Look, I think we can have hot water too?I've brought a catalogue?then I'll have a bath every night like you want me to." Flora was too giddy to think straight. She clung to him, his triumph hers. She had helped him to do all this, even if she had been about to run out on it. "Did you get your shirt?' she asked foolishly. Grant shouted. "I forgot to take the eggs to the store. But we'll go in together tomorrow. I want you to see Ben Allred's Ford. I want you to help me cash the check, I want you?" But Flora was crying. Of course he wanted her, just as she would always want him. They were one. They couldn't live apart. "What we can do for another is the test of powers; what we can suffer for is the test of love.'?Westcott. "Believe me, every man has his secret sorrows, which the world knows not; and oftentimes we call a man cold when he is only sad." ?Longfellow.  "We here highly resolve that the dead shall not have died in vain; that the nation shall under God, have a new birth of freedom; and that the government of the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth."?From ?Address at Gettysburg," by Abraham Lincoln.