"The Oahu Stake has some of the OAHU STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD most wonderful women it has been my pleasure to meet. Its Relief Society President, Sister Salm, with her gifted board members, directs the work in an intelligent and inspiring way. The teachers' work is handled by sisters who can present the message either in English or Hawaiian, and where they find no one at home, they leave a written message. The Relief Society sisters are contributing dainty hand-made pieces of lahala to raise funds for the new L. D. S. Chapel to be built in Honolulu. North Davis Stake ERY fine reports continue to come to the office about the extensive work of women in Church Security. The pictures give some idea of the work done in food conservation, and the preparation of articles of clothing, as well as of quilts made and blankets assembled in the North Davis Stake. It was quite impossible to display, even to list, all the articles prepared by the Relief 123 Society and Y. W. M. I. A., who cooperated in this fine work. Ensign Stake NE of the beautiful characters we have the opportunity of occasionally meeting is Sister Lulu Greene Richards, the first Editor of the Woman's Exponent. She is still interested and active in Relief Society work, and we are indebted to her for the following account of a delightful meeting in the Twentieth Ward: "On the evening of Thursday, December 2, 1937, in the Twentieth Ward Chapel, Salt Lake City, a remarkably fine 'Artist's Program,' under the auspices of the Relief Society, was given. The entire program was educational and inspirational to an unusual degree, showing high talent in our home composers, musicians, singers and readers. Each number seemed especially adapted to its appointed place on the program. "If any portion might be considered the 'real gem' of the occasion, it would doubtless be the anthem CLOTHING AND BEDDING, NORTH DAVIS STAKE  FOOD CONSERVATION, NORTH DAVIS STAKE entitled 'Ruth,' the sacred words of which are from the Bible, and the soul-stirring music the composition of our own talented Luacine Clark Fox. This anthem was sung by another of our home girls, one of our sweet singers, Elizabeth S. Cushing. Anyone who feels interested in the anthem and has no opportunity of hearing it sung, may -find satisfaction, to some extent, by reading the short book of 'Ruth' in the Old Testament. "An excellent part of the splendid program described above is that it was a free-will offering to aid the Relief Society in its ever-increasing efforts to strengthen and assist in carrying on the noble work of the Church Security Plan." Idaho Stake HE fine work accomplished in the stake was a result of careful planning. Early in the spring the Stake Board made plans for a Stake Bazaar, Art Exhibit and Flower Show. Word was sent to each ward in time for the spring planting of flowers. The bazaar was held in late August. The Stake Committee on Flowers used mirrors, rocks and shrubs to make a rock garden as a background for the flowers. The response from the wards was most gratifying, and a gorgeous array created. Each ward sent art work to the Stake Committee, where it was judged and classified for exhibition. This covered one entire side of the large hall. Each ward had a booth of its own, from which the articles were sold and the proceeds returned to the ward societies. The stake reserved the sale of cooked foods for its own booth. The wards donated liberally to this, and a very tidy sum was realized. The Ward Conferences during the year have been very interesting, and among the outstanding numbers was a talk by a member of the Priesthood on "The Value of a Relief Society Mother in the Community." Another project, in which all united, was the binding of the Relief Society Magazine. This was a most popular, activity, and one in which all the wards participated.