PERHAPS that is sufficient about lamps. I should like to return to my friend's testimony which started this line of thinking. He made the statement that we should strive to be efficient light fixtures in order that the spirit shining through us might shed a more brilliant light. I think his illustration was apt. Many of us, I fear, are still in the candle stage. A pile of grease has to be consumed for a little light. Others are in the coal-oil stage. We require much attention if we are to be of much service. We have to be filled often, cleaned often, lit often, and even then our light is rather poor. Then, again, there are those who are like the early electric light bulb. They receive a full measure of the spirit, but are so imperfect in their structure that they can give forth little light. Happily, there are many built like a modern lamp?delicate, sensitive to the spirit, and lasting. A little current produces a great light. Requiring little attention, such lamps are placed in the chandeliers, or on the top of an inaccessible pole where they shed their light upon all around them. Leaders in the faith are like those lamps.
SEVERAL of the apostles chosen by the Master were wonderful light fixtures. The spirit entered into them and they have lighted up the world for two thousand years. Judas, on the other hand, was a poorly-constructed globe. The spirit, passing through him, seemed to produce a short which destroyed the Master and the globe as well. Paul was an up-to-the-minute light globe. He had been tested and polished for years so that when the spirit came in its rich effulgence, it burned with a glory that can never die. Under the inspiration of the spirit he wrote that matchless thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians, and that almost matchless fifteenth chapter. In modern times we have the Prophet Joseph Smith as an example of a lamp that responded to the spirit until he re-lit the world. Of course there are many others who could be named, scores of them living this very moment for as long as there is spirit there will be light fixtures through which it can shine. We must not overlook the fact that many of these brilliant lights were scientists, musicians, artists, sculptors, and even tinkers and plowmen, as witness John Bunyan and Piers.
Now comes the sermonette. All of us may not be mazdas or tungstens, or the highest quality of lamp manufactured, but all of us can be the very best lamp of our type that it is possible to be. We can keep our filaments clean in order that the spirit may play upon them without shorting; we can keep the outside globe free from soot and grime in order that as much light as our kind of filament will give off, may penetrate to the outside world. Jesus said, "Let your light so shine." And again He said, "Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house."
NOW, as the radio announcers say, let me return you to my friend, Ralph Waldo Emerson?I hope he is your friend, too. He said: "The hand can never execute anything higher than the character can inspire." Or, in the light of this rambling discussion on lamps, we might say, "A lamp has to be a well-put-up lamp if it is to do much toward lighting the world." Emerson, in that same essay on "Art" put it in another way: "Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us, or we find it not." In other words, we must be provided with filaments which will respond to the everlasting current, or there will be darkness instead of light?and light is beautiful.
THINKING
By Caroline Eyring Miner
I WAS thinking tonight as I watched a beautiful sunset from our back porch, life ought to be like this wonderful day, begun in a rosy dawn, hot and brilliant and splendid in mid-day, and then finished in the mellow golden richness of sunset which gradually merges, no one knows when or how, into the coolness of twilight. I'd like to pattern my days after God's day.
I knew as a child the rosy joyousness of dawn, exuberant health of body and mind, unbounded energy, the tender protecting care of loving parents, the security of home, and the carefree companionship of brothers and sisters and of playmates.
I am in the hot-white heat and brilliance of mid-day. I have urgent responsibilities to challenge my best efforts, a young and consequently a demanding family, a husband charged with making a living in this uncertain and competitive age, a home to keep as a pleasant and secure refuge for my family when a hundred commercial interests are beckoning them from it, the responsibility of numerous church positions, parents and brothers and sisters to hold faith with and live up to their hopes and desires for my success and accomplishments. I can certainly know the heat of battle and the intense struggle of mid-day, and hope to know its brilliance in accepting its challenge and in struggling mightily to fulfill its obligations.
Perhaps at sunset I shall know the mellow golden satisfaction that a full day well lived shall bring, a young family grown into independent and aspiring men and women, the security and peace of a pleasant and comfortable home with enough to live on without worry, the knowledge my parents were proud of me, and the memories of the struggle of it all to share with the companion of those struggles. Perhaps, I say, I shall know this glorious fulfillment as God's day is culminated.