His were the weary feet, the miseries, N \ j Mom's Vacation By Elsie C. Carroll HEN Uncle Anthony's W check for two hundred dollars came with his characteristic note, "Have a merry Christmas," the Fishers decided to divide the money evenly among the four of them and each take a much desired Christmas vacation. Tony, as a matter of course, would go to Glendon where Madge was at school. He had been considerably worried of late over frequent references in Madge's letters to a certain fascinating young football captain by the name of Ken Halliday. While Tony and Madge were not formally betrothed, he had been sure ever since they used to make mud pies in her Aunt Harriet's back yard, that some day they would keep house in reality. Fifty dollars would take Nell to the district convention of the Business and Professional Women's clubs to be held in Montrose two days after Christmas. She had talked of that convention for weeks. There were so many places Betty wanted to go that she wavered for several days, finally writing to Kate Donnel (whose cousin Phil she had met last summer who was to be a guest at the Donnel home) that she was pleased to accept her invitation. When they asked Mom where she was going, she said that for years she had wanted to visit Janet Langton, an old school friend who continued to send her invitations each year. If she didn't go to Janet's she would run over to Aunt Grace's for a few days. The check arrived on the fifteenth, and there was much excitement in the Fisher household from that time until the twentythird, the date it happened that Tony and the girls would all leave for their trips.' Mom would not go until the day before Christmas. Tony asked the family to give him the amount they had intended to spend for his presents in cash. He explained that he had his eye on a nifty little diamond down in Kimbark's window that he could get for a thirty dollar deposit, and he was determined to put a stop to those perpetual allusions to that insufferable Ken Halliday in Madge's letters. Nell gave him five dollars, explanning that she had intended to make him a silk shirt and that the material would have cost her about that much. Betty came through with another five, confessing that she was tempted to cut it in two because she would simply have to have a lot of new things for herself now she was going to Kate's. Mom, sensing the disappointment in Tony's eyes, supplied the other twenty dollars, figuring that if she went to Grace's instead of to Janet's she 'could make her old coat do until the spring sales. Nell complained so much about her shabby traveling bag, that Mom took back the beautifully bound volume of Keates she had paid six dollars for, for Nell's Christmas present, and bought instead an eighteen dollar bag, reasoning that she could sponge and press her brown crepe and with a new collar make it do a while 654 longer. Nice things meant so much to Nell. Betty's wants were so many that Mom, who couldn't bear to see the children disappointed, lay awake nearly all of two nights trying to devise ways and means for the new party dress with silver slippers and bag to match that anyone, according to Betty, would simply have to have at a house-party at the Donnel home. Already Mom had spent more than her budget allowed for Christmas presents, and she had drawn practically all from her own clothing budget. But she still remembered so vividly how she had longed for a new gown that time, more than twenty years ago, when Betty's father had been coming to spend the holidays with her brother Anthony, that she felt as though nothing mattered quite so much as that Betty should have her outfit. If only Richard could have been spared, these things that meant so much to the children would have been theirs by natural right. It was hard, trying to be father and mother both, but she had made a heroic effort to remain cheerful and courageous under the burden Richard's death had left upon her shoulders, and always there was the satisfying assurance that he was near her, loving her still and trying as best he could to comfort and sustain her. Near dawn of the second sleepless night, the thought came to Mom that if she could endure the smoky, sagging paper on her room for one more year, Betty could have her things; and she went to sleep happy. O*r the morning of the twentythird Tony came down stairs just as Mom was breaking the RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE eggs for the omelet. She gave a little start as he bounded into the kitchen with his customary, "Say, Mom, where's my ln This morning it was one of his military brushes that was missing. He wanted it to put in his bag he was packing. The thing that had startled Mom was the boy's likeness to his father. _Every day he grew more like Richard. The sound of his voice, that quick little shrug of his shoulders, the way he had of touseling his hair when he was excited, that very, "Where's this or that?"—all these reminders hurt her, at the same time they thrilled her. "Have you asked Betty if she borrowed your brush? She was cleaning her coat last night." "Gosh, I might have thought of her." Tony started back to his packing, but he stopped at the foot of the stairs and after a moment's hesitation came back to the sink where his mother was working. "Say, Mom, I guess you couldn't lend me a five or a ten until my next pay day could you? Things might come up that a fellow can't count on you know, and it's tough to have to crawfish before a crowd. I want to show that new bunch of Madge's that Ken Halliday's not the only squash in the garden. I may have enough dough; I have all I ought to spend; Manly gave me an extra ten for a present last night; but gosh I'd hate to be embarrassed. Just an extra five or ten would make me feel safe. It's only until my next pay you know. Could you spare it, Mom?" Mom checked a sigh as she answered a bit hesitantly, "Why, maybe I could spare that much." She knew from past experiences MOM'S VACATION that although Tony's intentions were perfectly good and honest in regard to paying her back when he received his next part-time salary, that there would be so many demands upon his check that she would probably say, as she had said so many times before, "Never mind, Son. That will be all right." "Tt takes so gosh darned much to sport a girl," Tony apologized, as Mom wiped her hands and started toward her room for the money. "But Madge is worth it, don't you think, Mom?" "She's a dear little girl, Tony. I have always loved Madge." As she opened her dresser drawer and took out two of the five dollar bills from her vacation portion, she could hear Tony whistling contentedly as _ he whirled the egg-beater in the mixing bowl. FTER breakfast while Nell was gone to get her credentials from the local president of the B. P. W. C., Betty came to the window where Mom was putting the last few stitches in the altered hem of the blue party-dress. She had in her hand a tissue wrapped box. "Isn't it the darlingest dress?" she exclaimed, touching the filmy material that matched her own shining eyes. "I'm just thrilled to death with it! And that bag is the dearest thing. You do have the best taste, Mumsy! I don't see how you could know just exactly what would suit me the way you do." Mom smiled _ reminiscently. This might be the very dress of her seventeen-year-old dreams. "Say, Mom," Betty's fingers were toying with the tinsel bow on the parcel she held in her hands. "I'm worried to death 655 that Kate will give me something expensive for Christmas. You know Id just feel too cheap for words to give her this little boudoir outfit if she gave me something big you know. I was just wondering, Mom, if maybe you could lend me about ten dollars, so I could get something real nice there in Winchell while I'm waiting for connections. Just so I'd have it, you see, if she should give me something expensive." Betty stood waiting, her eyes caressing the pink rosebuds on the blue girdle. "You see, Mom," she continued, as her mother deliberated, "after Christmas there won't be so many things, and you can take it out of my school allowance - next month or the next when I get caught up. I'd just be embarrassed to death to have Kate showing this dinky little present to her friends—and cousins—if she had given me something expensive." "Why—maybe I can let you have the money," mother answered slowly. "But I think that gift you made for Kate is lovely." "So do I. But you can see, Mom, how it might. Be—can't you? You know her cousin Phil Ashton—and a lot of other swell people will be there, and they'll all be giving her just wonderful gifts you see. NEL did not get back until it was almost time for them to start to the station. Very much excited. "I met June Frandson coming over. Here. She had a telegram from her Aunt Laura in Orton telling her to bring one or two of her girl friends with her when she comes to spend the holidays. She has a great big house and is lonesome, June says. June wants me She was 656 to go. She says she'll come back with me to the convention you see, and that will make another delegate for us. But the main thing is that I'll get to study that library cataloguing system they have in Orton and learn all the things I need to know so I can put the system in here. "It would only cost twenty dollars more to go with June. Mom, couldn't you lend it to me? I know the library board will increase my wages as soon as I get that new system in operation, and here's my chance." "Nell," called Betty from the head of the stairs. "Don't you know it's time we're off?" "Couldn't you, Mom? Real chance isn't it?" "Go on and get your things while I get you the money," Mother said, and Nell rushed up the stairs for her bag and wraps. Their mother stood on the porch and waved the three of them goodbye as the whistle of the approaching train sounded from down the gully. At the gate each of the children in turn halted a moment and called back a final godbye. "Have a good time, Mom." "Don't worry about us." "We'll see you next year." It's a RS. FISHER stood watching them until they were out of sight. Even then she did not move. She stood until the puffing of the train had subsided at the station, and until a shriller whistle and renewed puffings announced that her children were off on their Christmas vacations. At last she slowly turned back into the house, shivering a little as she closed the door. How still it was! The clock seemed fairly to shout at her, RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE She picked up the paper from the floor where Tony had dropped it when he had finished breakfast. She removed Betty's sweater from the living room couch and hung it on the hall tree. She glanced through the kitchen door at the panful of unwashed dishes in the sink. Somehow the stillness of the house and that queer feeling of being alone seemed to recall all the Christmasses she and her family had spent in this home which had never seemed so still before. There had been the first one with just herself and Richard making as merry as two children, the next one with Baby Nell; and others and others with the happiness of childhood expectancy making a glamor over mere commonplaceness; the last one before Richard left them— and the five since that time when she had tried so hard to do the things he would have done;—and now this one—and she was alone. The clock seemed to be shouting that word at her: "Alone! Alone!" it kept saying. Her eyes began to blur, so with her customary resolution she started toward the sink. She had found that work usually sent the blues scampering. As she passed her bedroom door, however, the sight of her open dresser drawer caught her eye. She went in to close it. She picked up the one lone ten dollar bill 'that remained of her brother's gift. Her unshed tears seemed to make it dance mockingly in her hand. Suddenly a wave of overwhelming bitterness swept over her. She was tired. She wanted a rest and a change as much as the children did. [What did they care for her? It was always give, give, give! Her whole life had been made up of doing for and giving to her chil- MOM'S VACATION dren. Did they appreciate it? No! What did it matter to them that they had taken her Christmas money—that she didn't even have enough to go to Aunt Grace's? What did it matter to them that she who loved pretty clothes as much as Betty, must go on wearing her shabby coat and frayed dress, for months. Or that she who loved beautiful things about her as much as Nell, must go on sleeping in this room with its soiled paper? What did anything matter to them just so they had what they wanted? ° Suddenly she felt that motherhood, that life itself was empty and futile. She threw herself upon her bed and began to sob. Each sob intensified her feeling of self-pity, and the more she pitied herself the harder she wept. As she recalled all the sacrifices and hardships of her years of motherhood, she wondered how she had endured them. There had been the winter when Betty was three that all the children had had whooping cough. For weeks she had not known a night's rest. There had been Tony's operation with the complications afterwards and the months and months of anxiety and expense—hills that had cramped them for years. The year of the influenza epidemic seemed like a nightmare to her. Then had come Richard's sickness and the paralyzing shock of his death; and new worries and responsibilities. She had never concerned herself with the financial side of their life while Richard was with them. In his blind consideration he had shielded her from that. It 'had meant mistakes and scheming and terrifying worries after he had gone. There had been other agonizing experiences as well. She shuddered 657 as she recalled Nell's infatuation two years ago for that middle-aged man from the East who had pretended to be an artist—and how near it had threatened to ruin her life. Some of Tony's gang escapades made her go cold when she recalled them, and Betty's impetuous love affairs with every Tom, 'Dick and Harry of their own and neighboring towns. Always it had been work and sacrifice and anxiety on her part. And what had she been given in return for it all—nothing but thoughtless selfishness of which today was a typical example. What did she mean to her children anyway but a drudge, a source to be drained for their pleasure. They hadn't even cared enough about her to realize that they had taken with everything else she had given, her Christmas vacation. Once Mom had given vent to her feelings, the bitterness against her lot grew more and more intense. 'She cried until her head and throat ached and her mouth was dry and parched. She thought of the sink full of dishes and the disordered rooms she knew the children had left upstairs; but she made no movement to get up. What did it matter how the house looked? What did anything matter? She wished she could lie right there and die, leaving the dishes and the disorder for the children to find when they came back. Maybe they would appreciate her when she was dead. Then suddenly she was aware of a presence in the room. She hadn't heard anyone come in, and yet there was someone standing beside her bed. She sat up to see if it were one of her neighbors; but it was neither Bertha Shober nor Angie 'Hartley. She didn't know the woman and yet she seemed strangely familiar. 658 As she was looking at her, trying to recall where they had met, the woman asked quiety, "Are you ready?" "Ready?" Mom repeated. "Ready for what?" "Vour trip." "But I'm not going. There isn't enough money. I gave it to the children." "But I came to take you. Come!" With a vague feeling that she should have washed the dishes and tidied the house before going away, she followed her visitor. Almost instantly they were entering a home she had never seen before. Suddenly she gave a little cry. "Why—there is—Richard in the other room and the ch—No! 'Why —it's—it's Tony—and Madge!" "Yes. And those are their children. See how happy they are." "What a fine man Tony is. How much he is like Richard. I must speak to him and to those lovely children." "Not now. We must go." Reluctantly she followed her guide. While she was still wondering who this woman could be, they entered a large white building. On all sides of the long room the walls were lined with books. People were seated at tables reading. In a little alcove off from the main room a group of men and women sat talking. "Why, there is Nell," exclaimed Mom. "What is she doing here?" "She is having a meeting with the board of directors of the new library. She is presenting her plan for a rural circulation of books that will bring the best reading to be had to every home in the land." How fine she looks—how contented. I must tell her—" Almost in the next breath they were in a lovely home. Beautiful music came to their ears. It was RELIEF SOCETY MAGAZINE Schubert's Serenade and recalled to Mom the thrill she had felt the time Betty played it the night she was promoted from junior high school. How proud she had been and thankful she had made the necessary sacrifices for Betty to keep on with her music. Through an open door could be seen a dark haired boy at a piano, with another boy standing near with a violin. Beside them was a beautiful woman directing them. "Betty! It is my Betty! 'What is she doing here?" "She belongs here. This is her home. Those are her sons!" "How wonderful! And I used to be so afraid she was going to throw herself away on that good-for-nothing Pete Granger." "We must go now." Reluctantly Mom followed the guide out from the loveliness in which she had been reveling. A moment more and— M OM opened her eyes. For a moment she stared about in bewilderment. Where was she now? A corner of smoked, sagging paper convinced her she was in her own room. A damp greenback crumpled in her hand made her sit up and rub her eyes. It was only for a second, then she remembered. She sat on the edge of the bed for a few moments staring at the money in her hand. Finally she addressed the bill with conciliation in her voice. "T expect you think I'm a great baby, don't you? Even if you are not big enough to take me to Janet Langton's or to Grace's, you're big enough to help me have a good time right here at home. Let's see—I know. You are big enough to help me make a real Christmas for that bunch of motherless Thompsons down the gulch. And I guess I'd MOMS better get busy giving you a chance to do your Christmas service. I'll bring those kiddies right here. The house won't seem so lonesome, and I won't have time to worry about how abused I am." Mom got to her feet with a new determination shaping itself in her mind. "It's time right now that I begin to understand that it is instinctive and natural for children to seem selfish and ruthless as they go after the things that mean their own future happiness and success. The world is built that way. Parents should know better than to expect their children to pay them for their work and sacrifice. The way that debt is paid is by the children passing on what their parents have done for them to the next generation—to their children. I ought to have had sense enough to see that all the time. I guess Nell and Tony and Betty aren't the monsters I was trying to make out to myself they are; they're spoiled some by my—what is it some writer called it—'smother love'—but mostly they're just natural." This new philosophy gave Mom something interesting to think over as she went about her work getting ready for the Thompson children's Christmas party. Soon she was her busy, contented self—outwardly, though there still lingered the ghost VACATION 659 of a longing for at least a little sign that her children recognized what she was doing for them. Her recompense came Christmas morning in the form of a night letter, a telegram, and a special delivery. The first was from Nell. It read: "The Orton librarian will give me three days next week. That twenty dollars means my whole future. You're a treasure, Mom." Tony's was a ten-word slang masterpiece: "Sparkler put skids on Halliday. Your twenty bucks saved day." Betty's was a five page diary of thrills. It ended: "And Mumsy, Kate's cousin— listen while I whisper this in your ear—He's the real prince charming I've always dreamed about. How could I ever have looked at Pete Granger. He thinks my blue dress is a dream and I wish you could have heard him rave over my good taste in the plaque I gave Kate. (Thanks to your ten dollar loan.) Mumsy, you're the darlingest dear in the whole world! Tony and Nell and I were talking about it on the train, and we all made a pre-New Year's resolution that we're going to be worth all you are doing for us. If you don't believe it, just ask Old Lady Future."