[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Out of the World G. Milton Babcock]

World By G. Milton Babcock. (Continued from page 20.) Tn a few days the widow had partly given and partly sold her furniture to Mrs. Mulvaney, and when Uncle Billy called for her with the cutter, it was with a feeling of relief that she departed the house, with its memories of sufferings and privations. At least two of her husband's folks did have hearts, after all! How bracing the air was that morning! She inhaled deeply, as if to expel from her lungs the last breath of the foul air she had breathed in Mulvaney's place. She was glad for Walter's sake, as well as for her own, that they were leaving, for the influence of Pat Mulvaney over Walter had not been entirely for the good. One day she had overheard him assert, with a "cussing" facility that astounded her, that he could beat Pat at squirting tobacco juice. This was the first inkling she had had that Walter could smoke, chew, or swear—accomplishments that she firmly endeavored to discourage. As the cutter turned in at a trim country home, a vague feeling came over her. Sometime, somewhere, she had seen this place and it was associated with something unpleasant. As she stepped into the house, her spirit grew more and more motose and a dreadful something seemed to haunt her memory. When shown to her room, her head began to roar, faint, and then louder, as a train approaching from the distance. "Mrs. Smith, who lived in this house before you?" she asked in a trembling whisper. "Why, Benjamin Slade." "T knew it! O God, this is where my husband died!" she cried pitifully, falling to the floor—a helpless wreck. PART II I "There, Maud, you're fit for a king to drive," pronounced the boy complacently, as he threw his arm about the mare's neck. "Now I s'pose you'd like a lump of sugar for letting me curry you." For answer the animal rolled her eyes as if to say, 'Don't forget!'' Walter had known "Maud" all his seventeen years—or, at least since he could remember the time Uncle Billy hoisted him onto her back in response to his plea to "ride hossey." He had a warm spot in his heart for all dumb creatures, and was the a
 Proud possessor of a dog and cat, as well as numerous pigeons whose love-notes ever sounded' from the gables and ridge of the barn, and at his call came and fed from his hand. The boy's face was frank and honest, and his eye fearless and kind. As he put the currycomb and brush back in place, he felt a sudden desire to go up to the hay-loft and take a nap in the little '"cave" he had made for himself in the hay. In this spot he was wont to dream, to build castles, and to think the long, long thoughts of youth. As he closed his eyes, his mind wandered back to that neverto-be-forgotten day when his mother broke up housekeeping and went to the country to live, while he was given in charge of Uncle Billy and Aunt Angie. He recollected the folks telling how his mother fainted when she first came into her new home and how ill she was for some time thereafter. He remembered that he resumed school, and then hired out to deliver papers; yes, for four long years he had faced the winds of the North as they swept down Hudson avenue, many times almost tearing the papers from his hand before he could get them distributed to his customers. Well he recalled some of his customers, particularly O'Connor's saloon, for it was there, one time, some half drunken men had seized him, as he came in to lay the paper on the bar, and insisted that he drink a glass of beer. This Walter refused to do, which angered the man so that he tried to force the glass between his. Lips. He could see old O'Connor interfering to prevent this, and the scrap that followed. Yes; he had had many interesting experiences as a newsboy, and they were not without their lessons and recompense. He had saved from his New Year's greetings enough money to take him through business college, and now he had graduated and was "resting up,'"' as Aunt Angie expressed it, before starting out life as a stenographer. He had made an excellent record in college, receiving the "Highest "Honor" diploma in the commercial department, so he felt that a good beginning had been made toward a successful career. The sun had dropped well below the zenith when Walter awoke. Some one was calling him, and when he gathered his thoughts together and made out where he was, he realized that it was his uncle. "Walter, are you here?" sounded the voice again in an impatient tone. "Yes, uncle; I'm coming." "My! Hear that ice crack—sounds like it would go out soon!" exclaimed Uncle Billy. The March winds had died, and in their place came the warm, gentle breezes from the south. "Yes, it's been thawing pretty fast the last few days, and raining hard, too," commented Walter. 'I wouldn't be surprised OUT OF THE WORLD. 85 to see the ice go out any time now. Well of all things! Uncle, I really believe that ice is moving—see it?" he pointed out excitedly. The ice was certainly moving! The river had risen rapidly. Loosening the great sheet from its anchorage on the shores and causing great long cracks to appear. As the ice gained momentum on its journey oceanward, it rapidly broke into smaller and smaller pieces. The field below the dam went out first. It was interesting enough, but a more interesting sight was yet to come. Higher and higher rose the water above the dam, lifting the great ice sheet like a jack raises a house. Then the ice began to break, and slowly, but surely, under the influence of the torrent of undermining water rushing from the north, it started over the dam. Down, down it went, the huge cakes gliding swiftly over the forty-foot oak logs that composed the dam. People gathered quickly to see the sight; those on the Green Island side to their docks, and those across the river in Troy to the back of the great collar factories. How the dam roared as the flood and ice poured over in ever increasing volume! And yet, above the roar, could be heard the peculiar swish of the ice as it drifted by. And what colors and shapes passed! Here was a great white block, there a cake of greenish hue alongside one of gray. Now swept by a great egg-shaped piece bearing a round, tower-like block in the center. It reminded Walter of the Yankee Cheese-Box on its way to meet the Merrimac. All kinds of rubbish came down: rocks, logs, rowboats, and outhouses. It was a great delight to the village youth to snake in a log or other piece of driftwood by means of pike-pole and ropes. Returning to the house, Walter found his mother there. It was Aunt Angie's birthday—her sixtieth—and Florence Nelson had come to pay her respects. She greeted Walter with a smile —a smile which reminded him, as he kissed her affectionately— that its setting had not always been a pale, drawn face, with listless eyes and faded hair, but rather a countenance of sunshine bordered with strands of gold. Withdrawing to his room, where they could be alone, the mother and son talked over the things that lay nearest their hearts. "How are you and Aunt Angie getting along?" she asked. "Pretty well, mother; but she is always so darn strict about my spending an evening out, or having any of my boy friends visit me, that sometimes I feel like picking up my duds and leaving. Of course, I suppose that would be a shabby trick to do, after she has been so good to me in other ways." "Yes, your aunt is strict, Walter. She is old-fashioned in 
 Lots of her ways. But she has been a mother to you—for seven long years now," she sighed. "How is your uncle?" "Oh, he never says much—she won't let him! - I only wish she was as patient as uncle is. Whenever she gets mad at me she starts for the rawhide, but uncle he takes me down to the barn, or in my room, and gives me a good lecture. And he usually brings the tears, too—it really hurts more than the rawhide. Seems as if I am getting pretty old to be bossed around so much. I expect to give aunty all I earn when I start work. I presume she'll give me a few pennies for myself; but, as uncle says, 'Take care of the pennies and the dollars'll take care of themselves,' I suppose I'll have to be careful how I spend. I guess it's good advice, though." The conversation was interrupted by Aunt Angie calling "supper's ready." Walter jumped up gingerly. "Come on, mother," he invited, leading the way to the dining room. When all were seated, Uncle Billy called on the visitor to ask grace—something that happened only when a gttest was present, whom Uncle Billy knew to observe such a religious custom at home, for he was not a church member himself, and neither Aunt Angie nor Walter ever worried much about asking grace. The guest repeated easily a few lines she had learned when a girl from the Prayer Book, and all fell to eating Aunt Angie's tempting meal. Supper over, all adjourned to the back parlor for the evening. Although a strict Baptist, Aunt Angie permitted cards in her home; in fact, really enjoyed playing herseli—when she wasn't peeved at the tantalizing success of an opponent. An hour or so was passed away at this diversion and then, as from the "ridiculous" to the "sublime," the subject of religion came up for discussion—and argument. Aunt Angie started it: "Well, Florence, are you still going to the Episcopal church?" "Yes, Aunt Angie, as a rule I do, but once in a while I go to the Baptist church, just to please the folks 'm working for." "You're still satisfied with your belief, then?" "T certainly am. I've gone to that church ever since I was a little girl, and I wouldn't think of changing now." "If they only had the right form of baptism, it wouldn't be so bad, to my notion," commented Aunt Angie. "That's what you always say, aunty," interposed Walter, coming promptly to his mother's defense; "but you've never yet convinced me that what you say is right." "You get me the Bible in. The case there," she commanded, "and I'll prove to you people that I know what I'm talking about. I haven't lived sixty years for nothing." OUT OF THE WORLD. 87 Walter arose to do as he was bidden, a flush on his face. His mother sat quietly, while Uncle Billy twitched uneasily in his arm chair—he knew what was coming, and did not care to "sit in" on the argument. Aunt Angie swung her ship into action and opened with a broadside: "Now I say that Christ was baptized by immersion, and as he is our example, we ought to do as he did." Her hearers said nothing, so she went on: "Here in the third chapter of Matthew it says that John was baptizing in the River Jordan and Christ came to him to be baptized. Now why would John be baptizing in the river if it wasn't done by immersion?" she demanded. "Oh, we know all about that, Aunty," answered Walter. "I once saw a painting of that in an old Bible that showed John pouring water on Christ's head with a big shell. Of course, they had to go somewhere to baptize, and the river was probably the handiest place,' he presumed, much to her anonyance. "That's all right,' demurred Aunt Angie; "but let me read you from John 3:23: " "And John also was baptizing in Aenon, near to Salim, because there was much water there.' "Now that ought to settle it," she went on; "but if you need further proof, just read what Paul says about being 'buried' and 'planted' with Christ in baptism," she challenged. "That's all very well," declared the widow agitatedly; "but my Prayer Book reads that baptism is an 'outward, visible sign of an inward, spiritual grace.' It simply means that you've accepted Christ as your Redeemer and want to acknowledge it to the world. Then, too, as we are 'born in sin,' it is necessary to be baptized in order that that sin might be washed away." "Now you're bringing in that contemptible 'infant baptism' doctrine!" objected Aunt Angie excitedly. "You can't show me one single instance in the Bible where they ever baptized little children. We are not 'born in sin,' and no one should be baptized until they have come to the age of manhood or womanhood. They ought to know just what they are doing and— "We have godfathers and godmothers in our church, aunty, who stand up for the child," interrupted Walter. "That'll do from you, young man! You needn't interrupt when I'm talking," she glared. "Now, Florence," she resumed, "you remember the time the little children came to Christ? He took them up in his arms and blessed them, didn't he, and said 'of such is the kingdom of - heaven?' He didn't baptise them, did he?" "No, of course not," came the provoking answer; "they had already been baptized." 
 Walter smiled triumphantly at his mother, but the smile quickly faded when Aunt Angie closed the Bible with a bang and slammed it on the table. "I give up!" she cried. "You people are about as hard-hearted as anyone I ever saw. When a person proves a thing to you from the Bible, y'won't believe, but'll stick to your darned old Prayer Book that King Henry got up for you. The old fool was nothing but an adulterer, and—!" "Tut! Tut!' protested Uncle Billy. "You folks are too bigoted. It's a funny thing how two Christians—both claiming to be founded on the Bible—can get so — different ideas of religion from the same book." "You simply don't understand, Wiliam," answered his spouse vehemently. "Maybe I don't," he retorted ironically—''and that's why I've never had any interest in any of your churches. You say you teach brotherly love, but I reckon the argument you've had tonight ain't going to make you love one another any better," he -nuckled, scratching his short, gray beard. "But, after all, it don't make much difference what you believe," ventured Walter with a sidelong glance at his aunt. "We're all going to the same place, but perhaps by different roads. The main thing's so long as you believe." "Now how do you make that out, boy?" demanded his uncle. "If my memory serves me right, it'll soon be Lent in your church and you'll be getting those pyramid boxes to put your pennies in for the poor heathens in China, Africa, and so on. Your aunt ts giving money away for foreign missions every once in a while. Now, just think," holding up a finger and warming up to the subject: "two churches will be represented over in Africa—your aunt's and yours. One missionary'll say to the prospective convert, 'Join my church, and we'll baptize you by putting you under the water. Your little children won't need to be baptized until they grow up.' The other missionary will tell him, "We'll baptize you by sprinkling a little water on your head—it's much more convenient. Your little children will have to be baptized, too, because they are 'born in sin.'" Some other good Christian will come along and, like as not, tell him that he won't need baptism at all. You see, I know more about religion than you folks think I do," he concluded complacently. For a moment there prevailed an uncomfortable silence. "Well, guess I'll have to be going home," announced the visitor, "I hope the bridge is safe—you know last year they had to put loaded cars on it to keep it from going down. Will you walk over to the car with me, Walter?" "Sure I will, mother; just a minute 'til I*get my hat." Outside a bow-like moon struggled with slow-sailing clouds OUT OF THE WORLD. — 89 for the right to shine, now and then lighting the flagstone sidewalk as it temporarly disposed of a dark adversary. "Gee willikers! Aunt Angie is certainly mean in her arguments, ain't she, mother? That's the first time I ever heard Uncle Billy say anything like that. I guess we'll have to give him credit for knowing something about churches, even though he isn't a Christian. Aunty is always proddin' him to go to church with her, but it's seldom she can get him to stir. Gee, it makes her mad sometimes!" "Your uncle is just like your father was, Walter. I remember just an hour or so before your father passed away, he was breathing terribly fast, and asked me to pray for him, I did the best I could—I had never learned to pray without the Prayer Book—and when I got through, he reached for my hand and said, "Florence, remember I die—a believer in Jesus Christ, though I have left the church!" "Well, mother, it is funny, when you come to think of it, that there are so many churches. I never thought that it made much difference which one you belonged to, but, somehow or other, I couldn't think of any answer to uncle's argument tonight. Oh, well—let's forget it! We'll find out some day who's right." "Yes, Walter, if we live according to the best that is in us and ever be ready to accept more light—no matter from where it comes—we'll not go very far astray; at least that's what your dear father wsed to say. Here's my car—kiss me goodby, and come to see me the first chance you get," she entreated, fondly embracing him. Il. For two days the glistening ice floated past, and then the swirling, yellow water showed in ever larger patches. At length, but straggling floes moved by, like scattered birds trying to catch up with the flock, whirling and bumping their way past Albany, the Palisades, and into the ocean at New York City. Just above the dam the ferryman was busy overhauling his boat and getting it ready for service, During the winter he had laid a boardwalk on the ice, charging a toll for its use. "Got her most ready, Captain Robbins?" called Walter from the shore. "Aye! Aye! Lad, I'll b e a-makin' my first trip in about an hour, Will ye want to go over?" "Yes, I've got an errand to do, and thought you'd be running. You think it's safe?" "Leave it to me, lad; I've never gone over the dam yet on account o° high water. The river's clear of ice now, so there's nothin' to worry about." 
 Thus assured, Walter strolled along the bank, amusing himself by riding the blocks of ice which had lodged along the shore. This was great sport; several times he came perilously near slipping off into the muddy water, and finally, when the ferryman blew the whistle to announce the first trip, it so startled Walter he forgot the cake of ice he was on was slowly moving, and he was only brought to his senses by the hail of a girlish voice: "Say! You polar bear, are you going to take a ride down the river?" With a laugh, he bounded to another cake and thence to the shore. "Hello, Edith," he greeted. "Are you going across, too?" "Yes, mother and I are going to the city. We heard that Captain Robbins would have the old ferry ready this morning, so we decided to go with him. There's mother now," she broke off, hurrying to meet her. The loud blowing of the whistle brought no additional passengers, so the captain determined to cast off. The boat was an old one, almost as wide, it seemed to a landsman, as it was long. The captain was pilot, engineer, and fireman. He steered the boat in an arc in order to offset the current, but the journey was not half over when he realized that the current was unconquerable. The girl and mother, both old neighbors, were sitting quietly in the cabin, unaware of the anxiety that showed in the captain's face, but Walter, standing near the pilot house, saw it and at once realized the cause. Little by little—inch by inch, it seerned—the craft bore to the south. The engine did not seem to be working smoothly. "Think we'll make it, Captain?" faltered Walter. Sternly the order came in reply: ''Put on life-belts!" Ah! Resolutely the captain swung the wheel to port, and the clumsy boat met the current prow on. "Edith! We're going over the dam. Help! Help!) shrieked the woman, running - wildly about and neglecting to adjust the lifebelt which Walter had handed her. Gradually the ferry was overcome by the merciless current, and, as the roar of the dam sounded louder in their ears, Mrs. Whitman lost control of herself and was only prevented from leaping into the river by Walter' s firm grasp. "Tet me go; I can swim!" she screamed. "Don't jump, Mrs. Whitman," entreated Walter, alarmed at the pallor of her face and the maddened stare of her eyes. "Let's stick by the boat,' he begged. '"You remember the tug that went over last spring?—it di i g as we don't hit the dam broadside we're all right. Let's go up on top of the cabin where we'll have a better chance,' he suggested, firmly, leading her up the steps, the whistling of the distressed boat almost deafening them. His nerve held until the first glance from the cabin roof. The OUT OF THE WORLD. 91 sight of that terrible, foaming water was almost too much for the youth, but he steadied under the trusting clasp of an arm that clung trembling to him—her other arm locked with that of her mother. The ferry shot over the dam as a horse leaps a barrier in the steeple-chase. Down! Down! It plunged into the foaming, roaring, unpitying torrent below! Below the dam stood two men. "The water's pretty rear to the top of the dock, sexton. It's a good thing we hauled my rowboat far up into the yard, isn't it?" said Reverend Arthur, rector of Saint Paul's. "Yes, pastor: and there's no tellin' but what the water'll come over the dock yet. I wonder what all that whistlin's about? As I live, its a boat—the old ferry! See! There's some people on the cabin. Good gracious, she must have come over the dam! Let's get the boat." Together they dragged the rowboat into the water, the whistling of the distressed ferry ever sounding louder in their ears, then suddenly ceasing. "Quick! Get the oars, sexton; here it comes—it's sine and there's two women aboard! My God, help us to save them!" he breathed. "Help! Help! Pastor Arthur. Save us—we're sinking,'' came the agonized voice of a woman not fifty feet away as the old ferry rapidly settled to the bottom opposite the churchyard. The pastor saw at a glance that the women had climbed to the top of he pilot-house and were safe for the moment; but the two men were up to their waists in the cold, angry water. "Have courage!" he called. "We'll be there in a minute. Careful there! Sexton, row steady or we'll tip over," he cautioned as the other frantically splashed his oars. As they launched away, several people came running through the churchyard, some with ropes, and mingled voices of encouragement floated across the swirling waters. The current was terrific and threatened to sweep the little boat down the river, but the minister skilfully rowed alongside the pilot-house. "Steady now, folks—the women first. Here, Mrs. Whitman, take my hand. Careful there! Two's all we can take at a time. We'll be right back for you, boys; hold on," he encouraged. The return to the dock was negotiated in safety, eager hands reaching out to help them land. "Right in the house, Mrs. Whitmar and Edith go right in. Here, some of you men help me!" ordered the minister's wife. "Quick—she's fainting!" Great excitement prevailed as the rowboat returned on its perilous mission. The muddy waters seemed more determined 
 Than before to sweep it downstream—or was it that the strength of the rowers was failing? The shipwrecked craft had shifted its position and settled until Walter and the captain, now on the pilothouse, could scarcely maintain themselves, "Mr. Arthur, I'm losing hold!" cried Walter. "Hold on! Boy! We're coming," encouraged the pastor. "There now, grab hold careful, and get in—that's it," he soothed. "Now, captain, you're next." The rescue was none too soon, for even as the captain reached to pull himself into the rowboat, an undertow caught the helpless ferry and moved it so violently that the man lost his balance and but for the minister lending a steadying hand would have fallen into the water. A great shout arose from the crowd gathered on the water's edge as the little boat, though bobbing dangerously, bravely made its way shoreward. Some one flung a rope, which the captain caught and quickly fastened at the prow. Strong, willing hands drew it taut, and in a moment came the hoarse refain of ''Pull for the shore, sailor!" As the dock was reached, a mighty cheer arose, answered only by the roar of the dam above as it angrily flung the racing waters into numerous small eddies and whirlpools. The captain and Walter found their way to the library where the others were gathered, Mrs. Whitman having recovered from her fainting spell. A log burned briskly in the old-fashioned fireplace, and, except for the ill-fitting apparel of the guests, a stranger would not suspect that anything out of the ordinary had taken place. "Thank God! We're all safe," spoke up Walter. "Yes; and I think we ought to do so on our knees," added the man of God. Reverent heads were bowed as they knelt in the room. Opening his well-turned Prayer Book, the minister read: "O most blessed and glorious Lord God, who art of infinite good. Ness and mercy; we, thy poor creatures, whom thou hast made and preserved, holding our souls in life, and now rescuing us out of the jaws of death, humbly present ourselves again before thy Divine Majesty, tot offer a sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving, for that thou heardest us when we called in our trouble, and didst not cast out our prayer, which we made before thee in our great distress: * * * we, now being in safety, do give all praise and glory to thy holy Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen." "Amen!" was the heartfelt response from all but the captain; he seemed absorbed in deep study, a tense expression overspreading his features. Walter noticed the expression, but passed it by with the remembrance that the captain was known to hold peculiar religious views—a backslider the folks said. He had once belonged OUT OF THE WORLD. 93 to the Methodist church, but had been disfellowshiped for being out of harmony with its tenets. "If you don't mind, Mr. Arthur, I'll telephone my uncle and have him come after us with the carriage," offered Walter. He found the folks at home greatly concerned over the accident. Their anxiety would have been much greater had they known that Walter was on the unfortunate craft, but his aunt supposed that he had gone around by the cars. "To think that I've run that boat for nigh onto ten years now and never had an accident afore," sorrowed the captain. "It's pretty tough, I can tell you." "Yes, captain, let's be thankful that we're all safe, added the girl's mother. "I guess I about lost my head when I realized what was coming, and if it hadn't been for Walter here, I would probably have jumped overboard. Thank God, it's all over," she shuddered. "Tsn't it a beautiful thought that God is always with us, indeed, is our ever-present help in time of trouble?" volunteered the pastor. "Remember what the Psalmist said: "Whither shall I go from thy spirit? Or whither shall I flee from thy presence? If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the earth; even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me." "How do you charter that scripture, Mr. Arthur?" inquired the captain. "Why, of course, that God is everywhere present, and knows everything that's going on." "Do. You really calculate that God can be in more than one port at a time, pastor?" "Certainly; he is a Spirit—not having a body, nor parts, nor passions, like us. Remember," he quoted, "With God, nothing is impossible." "Avast there, parson! You say that God is everywhere present, but I don't believe it, for where would the Devil come in? An' besides, he is always sendin' some one to do his work for him. When he drove Adam from the Garden of Eden on account o' his mutiny, he told off an angel to guard the gangway for him. When he gave the Ten Commandments to the Children of Israel, Moses was his first mate. When he wanted to warn Joseph of the storm that was brewin' against the Child Jesus, he sent an angel; and you'll remember that the Master, even after his resurrection and ascension into heaven, told Paul to take his sailin' orders from Ananias. I tell ye, parson, the captain can't be on deck all the time, and neither can he be in all parts of the ship at the same time. 
 All stared at the captain incredulously. As no one vouchsafed an answer, the captain went on: "And then, too, parson, does it sound reasonable to you that God would be in the whisky joints and gamblin' dens, to say nothin' of the bad houses—"' "You seem to be pretty well informed," objected the minister. "T wonder where you get all those foolish ideas," he asked severely. "From up above—an' right here,' answered the captain, solenmly tapping his forehead. "Good common-sense along with the grace o' God is my formula, sir." "It's a good thing that we don't all believe as you do," retorted the Reverend heatedly. "I declare, I've never heard such blasphemy before in all my born days!" "Blasphemy, you calls it, sir? Well, then, what do you think of this: You say God don't have body, parts, or passions; then I] ask, what is he? In whose image are we made? Why, sir, the very man you quoted from in the beginning says he is good an' merciful. The Commandment says he is a jealous God. And above all, sir, the Good Book which you profess to explain with such a heap o' learnin' says that 'God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son.' I want to tell ye that I believe with all my might that we look like God. What does it mean when we call him 'Father,' if he ain't the same kind o' bein' that we are?" "Nonsense!" snapped the pastor. "Those things are merely figurative. We are made in his spiritual image; and as I don't care to have such talk in my house, and the carriage has just driven up, you will not mind if I say good-afternoon, as I have some important matters to attend to. You may send the suit back at your convenience." "Oh, Pastor Arthur," murmured Mrs. Whitman, "TI want to assure you that I appreciate what both you and Mr. Russel have done for us. We all feel deeply indebted to you, I am sure."" The others nodded assent. "Goodby, and God bless you," said he, shaking hands with "Mrs. Whitman and her daughter, but contriving to avoid the captain's proffered hand. "Walter, you were certainly foolish to take the ferry when you knew the water was high," scolded his aunt as he came into the house. "Let the boy alone, Angie,'"" counseled her husband.. "He's been nearly drowned, and has listened to a religious argument— all in one day—so I guess that's about enough excitement for a while." "Who's been arguing about religion now?" she asked sharply., OUT OF THE WORLD. 95 "My minister and Captain Robbins," replied Walter. "The captain argued that God was just like us, and that he couldn't be all over the world at the same time. Pastor Arthur got mad at the captain and wouldn't shake hands when he left." "T don't blame your minister. I've heard something of old Robbins' ideas, and it's all tomfoolery." "Well, you know aunty, it does seem reasonable, when you come to think of it, that if we are made in the image of God, he must look like us and we like him, I—" "Enough of such talk!" interrupted his aunt vehemently. Whose suit is that you've got on," she asked, changing the subject abruptly. "The minister's." "Well, you'd better get into your old brown suit," she advised, her voice softening. "It's too bad you had on your best suit. I guess it was pretty hard for you out on the river." Shaking his head, Uncle Billy turned away, reflecting, for perhaps the thousandth time, that religion, instead of uniting human souls in a common bond of brotherhood, had operated to divide humanity into a dozen great systems of worship and hundreds of sects, Christianity outdoing all the other systems in the multitude of its contending divisions. (To be continued.)