[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The War in Heaven Lizzie O. Borgeson White]

The War in Heaven By Lizzie O. Borgeson White One of the noble women of our Church wrote, in part: "For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth, Yet oftimes a secret something Whispered, 'You're a stranger here,' And I felt that I had wandered From a more exalted sphere." What blessed thought it is to know that we are somebody —that we are sons and daughters of God and were permitted te come to earth as mortals to be tested so that we might go on to eternal progression. Sometimes I picture mentally that great council in heaven which we all attended: I see our brother Lucifer come forth and make an eloquent speech in which he offers to save us all unconditionally, but his plan does not meet with the approval of our heavenly Father and is rejected; then another brother, Jesus Christ, submits his plan of conditional salvation, which is accepted, and he is, there and then, delegated to become our Redeemer on the earth that is to be created for us. As a consequence there is war in heaven. The Bible tells us, "To be born is to be judged," and that being the case, we can be safe in believing that we who are permitted to enjoy this earth-life fought for Christ's plan, and we were no doubt grieved to see our brother Lucifer take the stand 'he did against our heavenly Father and Jesus Christ and win over to him one-third of our brothers and sisters whom I am sure we loved. It must have been equally pitiable to see another third of those brothers and sisters in the spirit world stand by and look on too cowardly to take sides—satisfied with whatever plan might be adopted. Victory was with our Savior, as it will ever be; Lucifer and his followers were cast out and were to be cursed by not being permitted to inhabit mortal tabernacles —in other words, their progression was there and then stopped. But the terrific fight between right and wrong has been going on, ever since: with us poor mortals it is going on daily right within ourselves. According to Wilford Woodruff's way of reckoning, each one of us has some one hundred fallen spirits to encounter while undergoing the tests of the second estate. But this ought not to frighten us when we stop to consider the THE WAR IN. HEAVEN. 99 provisions made in that wonderful plan of redemption whereby we might have the Spirit of the Lord, and furthermore the gift of the Holy Ghost as a constant guide to lead us into the paths of right, if we will only remain faithful still to our Savior. An understanding of life, the purpose of life, and our mission here a earth will bring us joy unspeakable both in this life and hereafter. I will relate a little incident which came to my attention some time ago: A young man, woman, and two children moved into the neighborhood where I was then living. Before [ went to work in the morning, and after returning in the afternoon, I could hear her siging sweet lullabys to the children. I felt interested in meeting this young woman, and after making her acquaintance I learned that she had given up a musical career in the east to become a real home-maker. As our acquaintanceship grew, I occasionally offered to stay with the children in order that she and her husband might have an evening out together. One evening when she and her husband returned, the young woman was not in her usual happy mood.. She said they had been to see the photoplay, "Where are my Children?" and suggested that if I went to see it the following evening, she would sometime like to discuss the plot, etc., with me. Within a week thereafter she invited me to come and spend an evening with her, after her husband had gone to work. In discussing the story, as she had previously suggested, it gave me a chance to introduce "Mormonism," and the pre-existence of our spirits. In concluding my talk I told her I agreed perfectly with Ella Wheeler Wilcox's sentiment, in "Revealing Angels," concerning those individuals who invite spirits to earth and then are cruel enough to deny them bodies. The poor woman broke down and wept and asked, "Then that's what you think of me?" I could hardly believe her confession, and could not refrain frem cry'ng with her as between sobs she told me that some few weeks before coming to that neighborhood her husband had insisted that if they had any more children he would leave her, and that she had consented to a criminal operation in order that the two children already born might be provided for; she said many times she had regretted her act, but not until she had seen the play, "Where are my Children?" had she realized what a serious matter it was. "What will be my punishment?" she asked pathetically. I was not her judge, and told her it was a matter to be settled between her and her Lord, but that in judging her I believed he would be as merciful as he is just. 
 Poor woman, she suffered hell all right here on earth, and was willing to do anything, she said, that she might learn more of the real purpose of life. Coming a little nearer home. As I look into the face of a beautiful little girl whom the good Lord has entrusted into my care, I feel a prayer of thanksgiving for the Lord's tender mercies in my behalf that I had been led ito act wisely. During the winter and early spring of 1920, I was told by a doctor that I must be operated on or become paralyzed or otherwise have my health impaired, and never could experience the joy of motherhood until I had had the operation attended to. But doctors might sometimes be mistaken no matter how learned they are; so, before consenting to the operation, I dcided to invest a little money in a railroad ticket from a neighboring state to Salt Lake City to consult an uncle, who was a physician. He had just been removed from a hospital himself, and advised me to forget about the contemplated operation for the time being and let my intended visit with my mother, sisters and brothers, in my old home, be as pleasant as possible. Very sensible advice it proved to be; I spent the first summer in some ten or eleven years in the dear old home where I was born, and had pleasant childhood experiences, and in the early fall a spirit left its home in that "most exalted sphere" with a sweet message of peace and joy for me. And as for operation,—the doctor's forebodings didn't come to - fulfilment, and "I thank my lucky star" he didn't frighten me into doing something that I might have regretted forever by consenting to an operation at that time. I have not felt so well, either physically and spiritually, since returning from a mission to the east some five years ago, and who wouldn't after receiving such a blessing? DR. HUGHES NEW BOOK OF POEMS. The Canadian poet and publicist, Dr. James L. Hughes kas another volume of lyrics—this time tuning his lyre to love-notes hoth joyous and pure. The chord he strikes is universal in its appeal and each heart may find its own emotions mirrored in "Love Memories." The publishers are Warwick Brothers and Rutler of Toronto. The book is eminently a gift from one who loves to cne who is loved. We commend it to our readers.