ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
======================================================================

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO., 29 W. First South St. Phone Was. 5234, Salt Lake City. 
4. L.D.S. SMITH & BROS., Typewriter, 379, So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South St., Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St., Salt Lake City. 
9. L. D. S. HOSPITAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR NURSES, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. CUTLER BROS. CO., 36 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
18. McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main St., Sa't Lake City. 
19. PORTER-WALTON CO., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
20. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
21. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake. 
22. MARION BANKS, Millinery, and Charlton's Suit & Cloak Co., 321 So. Main, Salt Lake. Ball Bearings Give Greater Speed and Stability to the L. C. Smith & Bros. Typewriter (Ball Bearing? Long Wearing) Because of ball bearing typebars, the keys respond as readily as perfect piano keys. The capital shift works with equal ease no  lifting of a heavy carriage but simply shifting the light typebar segment, thus insuring absolute accuracy Another advantage this machine is complete in itself for all kinds of work: tabulating, billing, large envelopes, cards or paper as narrow as a postage stamp. . WRITE FOR CATALOGUE To L. C. SMITH & BROS. TYPEWRITER CO. 379 SO. MAIN STREET Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT EFFICIENT SERVICE SPECIAL NOTICE SONS & DAUGHTERS of the UTAH PIONEERS -THEL D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE was established by your FATHERS for YOU. OPEN ALL THE YEAR. Day and Evening Sessions. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN ORGAN OF THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHUKCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 

Vol. 1. June, 1914. No. 6 Editor Mrs. Susa Youug Gates Business Manager Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Advisory Committee Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams Mrs. Julina L. Smith Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley Publishers and Proprietors General Board of the Relief Society Office Room 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City One Dollar a Year Ten Cents a Copy Entered as second-class matter on February 18, 1914, at the Post Office at Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. EDITORIAL. INSURANCE. 

The General Board of the Belief Society have been making somewhat of a study through a chosen Committee of the insurance conditions in this state looking to the establishment of an Insurance Benefit plan in the Relief Society. We gave in a former Bulletin the letter from this Board to the Presidency of the Church, and their favorable reply to our suggestion, but it must be remembered that it takes time and thought to establish anything so important and so complicated as insurance, for women who have had no experience in handling such business. Our investigations have brought to light several interesting features connected with the insurance companies operating in this state. Most, if not all, of the women's insurance companies of the United States have associated themselves with Lodges, or Hives, as they are termed. These Hives meet regularly in social functions and programmed entertainments. There are some secret grips and passwords connected with the initiation of the candidates into the Hives or Lodges. This is a striking feature, and when the president of one of the great organizations was asked why this secret sign and grip formula was used in her initiation ceremonies, she replied that such a feature was very attractive to the human mind. Secret signs, grips, passwords, and insignia were as old as the 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. race, and all people are influenced more or less by the secret charm attached to such phases of human beings associated together for any purpose whatsoever. She told the writer to observe how popular this feature was in school fraternities, among the young people of the United States, and this suggestion certainly came in the nature of a surprising shock, for personally I was not aware at that time that the custom of using passwords, grips, tokens, and signs was at all prevalent amongst any class of people except the Masons. However, the statement is quite true, and its methods of introducing a candidate into any of these insurance Hives or Lodges is prac tically universal. The social side of the Hive and Lodge work is also made attractive through well selected programs, through the careful cultivation of all the arts of courtesy and gentle manners, which in reality form the asset of all insurance agents. The women of this society may be considerably surprised to learn how many women belonging to our Church have alligned themselves with these Lodges and Hives. Some of them, when questioned, say that the reason for their joining is on account of the pleasant social features connected with the regular meetings held in any special Hive or Lodge. Others say frankly that they want the insurance benefit of the Hive or Lodge, and accept the other features simply to get the insurance. Now, be it understood most emphatically that we have no quarrel with any of these Lodges or Hives, for all of them, so far as we know, are composed of very estimable women, while their business affairs are conducted after the most approved and honorable methods, but we do object seriously to our women joining with any organizations outside of those which are approved by the authorities of the Church. If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things. "We are preparing now to offer all of the benefits and blessings both financially and socially to the members of this Society in our own ranks and strictly among ourselves. This is not the time nor the place to make any arguments in support of the foregoing statements. There will be time enough to discuss these principles in later issues of the Bulletin. Just now we are concerned only in presenting for your consideration some facts and reasons why you will be asked to accept the Insurance Benefit plan as a part of the Relief Society work. Before leaving the subject of the benefit insurance companies, operated by women in the United States, let us inquire a little into their financial requirements. The rule for RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 3 these companies is that the candidate pays two dollars for an initiation fee into the Lodge or Hive. After that she pays 35 cents a month dues to the Lodge or Hive. Please notice, sisters, that this is 35 cents a month, not 25 cents a year, as our sisters are now asked to contribute to the general expense fund of this great and rapidly growing Relief Society. This 35 cents a month is distributed between the local Lodge and the Supreme Hive, whose headquarters are in the eastern states. The two dollars initiation fee and the 35 cents monthly dues do not have any bearing financially on the insurance question of the candidate. The candidate must pay for her insurance, either monthly or quarterly, according to previous, arrangements, outside of her Hive or Lodge dues. If she takes out $100, $200, $500 or $5,000 worth of insurance, she actually pays more in proportion than we are arranging to pay in the Relief Society for the same insurance, and this in addition to her lodge dues. Moreover, when any social affair is given at which refreshments are served in the loca Hive (and, by the way, that is quite frequently), the members are expected to furnish the cakes and other articles of food used for refreshment. Again let us emphasize the fact that these statements are not made in any sense of criticism for the energetic women outside of this Church who are making such success of their insurance labors, but they form a basis of argument and permit us to present our facts before our members in comparison, and with some degree of clarity and precision. And now what are the benefits to be derived by the members of the Relief Society who desire to take out either a burial insurance, a mission insurance, for young children, or school insurance for such children, or indeed for women who desire straight life insurance? What are the benefits? In the first place, the almost unknown virtues of saving are taught and inculcated by this method of forced saving, and it surely does become irksome at times to pay dues in insurance matters, yet long experience teaches us that the irksomeness of discipline is the best character-moulder next to human life. We are an extravagant people, as all Americans are. Mothers humor their children with all sorts of needless expenditures, and themselves keep no account, nor take stock of financial, personal conditions. Grandmothers too often live on the scant patience and scrimped generosity of children and children-in-law. These elderly women face the prospect of death and burial with more or less shrinking dread, not because they fear for the spiritual future, but because their own life experience teaches them that niggardly children are 4 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. apt to breed life-long quarrels over the death and burial expenses of an elderly relative or parent or, on the other hand, ; that their death and burial expenses will create a burdensome debt which may last through years, souring the memory of the overgenerous children left behind who face the necessity of meeting extravagant burial expenses. We may philosophize all we will in regard to the reverence due old age and our own tender emotions toward our aged parents and relatives, but would we face the actual fact of a more or less expensive funeral for that same parent or relative, and we ourselves already staggering under unbearable loads of debt and depression? Sympathy, affection, loyalty, and tender emotion fly out of the window. There is the hundred or two hundred dollars' debt to meet, and easy-going, or selfish-minded sons-in-law are very apt to refuse to lend a hand in the payment of the debt. How few grandmothers retain the ownership of their own homes! They are cajoled and persuaded by bustling sons, or coaxing daughters, and daughters-in-law, into disposing of their property rights in their homes, for the brilliant prospects of their children and children-in-law. Alas, alas, how many such mothers and grandmothers, right among our own people, eat the bitter bread of dependence and wonder why Provi'enee permits them to suffer from their own weakness and lack of common sense. The laws of the universe are not founded on sentiment, much less on sentimentality, and the human being must abide by the results of his own, or her own actions. The kindness that breeds extravagance and selfishness in children will grow its own crop of forgetful and cruel children. Another class of women who have perhaps reached a measure of worldly prosperity still look forward with dread to the uncertain conditions that may surround their last obsequies. To these the insurance offered by the Relief Society will come as a boon and a blessing by the payment of a trifling sum weekly or monthly, in which a woman can be assured of sufficient money at her death to bury her decently and independently out of sight without taxing a single relative or friend left behind. Oh, the comfort of going to rest at night and tucking under one's pillow the thought that no matter how soon death might approach, there is ample provision for comfortable burial expense made by one's self and independently provided for one's own burial. In the matter of any mission or school insurance, the exceedingly low rates which we are prepared to offer, makes possible two of the very best conditions that can be offered to the children of the Latter-day Saints. By the payment of a trifling RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 5 sum weekly or monthly, a boy or girl, can be assured of sufficient money to have a year's schooling in an eastern university, or to send him upon a mission, and more or less assistance while he is there. What an object to work for! What an ideal to place before the mind of a growing boy when he is preparing himself financially, as well as spiritually, for the greatest event that can happen in his young life, namely, a mission. How every honorable and unselfish emotion is struggling in the breast of parent and child who assists in the foundation of such a purpose. Insensibly the boy or youth will look forward to such an event as the culmination of his young life's purpose. Then consider what the saving habit means to an individual or to a family, when children are taught the value and importance of putting five or ten cents weekly into an insurance fund. The object for which they thus save will be settled firmly in their own minds for the future benefit of themselves and all associated with them. To be able to have one, two, or three hundred dollars saved up in small 'monthly sums, and draw it out in the course of ten, fifteen, or twenty years, is something to work for. which stimulates the best there is in every boy. He is to be the future wage earner of a family, and this early lesson of thrift and economy, of saving for a definite purpose, lays the strongest possible foundations in his character. Is this object worthy of our best endeavors? Our agents will be chosen and equipped in due time, and when they get out among the people they will be able to explain in greater detail this plan of benefit insurance. be-We speak for them and for the work in general your hearty support. It must be understood by our sisters that only those who are enrolled as members of the Relief Society can take out the insurance as given by us. June