[Vol24 | August 1937 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature for Missions]
Literature for Missions
TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH Lesson 2
JENNETTE EVANS McKAY
SISTER HUEFNER was a German, born in Wales. We have seen that she suffered no handicap in the Church by reason of this fact. Let us now pass in brief review the life of a Welsh-born girl, Jennette Evans, born August 28, 1850, near the town of Merthyr Tydfil. It was in May of that year that her parents and their older children became members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Thus Jennette was born in the Church. But in those days in Great Britain, as generally elsewhere, it took very much courage to join the unpopular Mormons. The Evans family exhibited this courage in high degree. For joining the Church her father was disinherited and cut off by his relatives. In order to join the body of the Church in America, he emigrated with his family in 1856, sacrificing a comfortable home and considerable other property, being able to sell them for only a small fraction of their value. But undaunted, the Evans family went to Liverpool and sailed for America.
Profiting by the sad experiences of some who began the long, hard trek across the Plains from the Missouri River to the Salt Lake Valley in the Rocky Mountains very poorly prepared, Brother Evans exhibited the good judgment characteristic of him by making a thorough preparation for this trying journey. On his way from Liverpool to Salt Lake he stayed three years in Iowa working hard to acquire a satisfactory equipment for crossing the Plains.
This done, he and his family crossed in the Summer of 1859 and settled in Ogden, forty miles north of Salt Lake City.
Jennette was six years old when she left her native land with her family, and nine when they arrived in Ogden. Of course, she grew up with a keen memory of the experiences of that long journey and wisely profited by the many lessons she learned. Her parents were industrious, thrifty people.
Times in early-day Utah were hard and life simple.
Nevertheless her parents believed in education for girls as well as for boys; hence their children were given the best advantages the crude schools of the times afforded.
Being studious and a lover of books, Jennette avidly seized every educational opportunity.
These opportunities existed in the home, in Church organizations, in social contacts with her friends, as well as in the school room.
None of them was neglected. Thus Jennette grew up to be a well-trained LESSON DEPARTMENT and beautiful young woman, popular with all her associates. One young man had been watching her for years.
Finally he ventured a proposal of marriage, was accepted, and so Jennette became Mrs. David McKay on April 9, 1867.
After marriage they moved from Ogden to Huntsville, a village in a high mountain valley a few miles east of Ogden.
This continued to be their home the remainder of their days, a very happy one, made so by the love, unity and faith of the husband, wife, and their devoted children. It was always an ideal Latter-day Saint home. It must be clearly understood, however, that such a home is not necessarily free from difficulties and trials. The McKay home had plenty of these. Brother McKay was a farmer and stockman. He took his beautiful young wife to live in a farm home, a small one at first, furnished with only bare necessities. And he was even in debt for these and the farm. But hard work, thrift and wise management gradually reduced the debt until after thirteen years the farm was debt free and happiness supreme now reigned in the home though deep sorrow had previously entered there.
