[Vol24 | August 1937 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature Lesson II]

Literature Lesson II
SACAGAWEA
THREE boats constituted the fleet which carried the Lewis and Clark Expedition up the river. On the largest and best of the boats was the leather lodge which Sacagawea shared with her husband and the commanders. "Clark recorded the dramatic moment of their departure in his Journal. "Two Capts.,' he wrote. 'Three sergeants.' 'Two interpreters.' To complete the record he included a roster of the men. Of the original twenty-nine who started from St.
Louis three were gone: Sergeant Floyd slept on his bluff above the river; Red and Newman had been sent to St.
Louis in disgrace. LaPage had been recruited in Mandan in place of Newman and Charbonneau had been added; Charbonneau and Sacagawea. Sacagawea!
Clark hesitated. He scratched his head. "'Charbonneau'," he said, 'spell your squaw's name for me. I want to put it in my Journal.
Spell slowly'." But Clark almost gave up in despair after Charbonneau had pronounced and spelled it several times. "'I spelled it,' said Clark with considerable pride. 'It was not easy, but I did it. She's got a right to go in the record along with the rest of the party'." How much of a right to go into the record she was to have he was to learn over and over before the long journey was finished. She became somewhat important immediately by being able to add to their food supply from the native fruits and vegetables along the way. "Usually they stopped for the main meal of the day at 2 o'clock.
Then while the cooks prepared food, Sacagawea wandered in the woods, searching for small grains and vegetables. She discovered wild artichokes, hidden in holes by mice for winter provender. She raided their nests prodding in the earth about small collections of dead wood with a sharp-forked stick until she had collected all she could carry, and was sufficiently rewarded by Clark's warm smile. "Janey, what an unexpected asset you are turning out to be!' he declared. 'I dare say in the end it will be you and no one else who keeps us from starving, saving our lives and our expedition'." "She flushed happily. Poor Sacagawea! If only she could understand the important words that went with the friendly smiles. She tried hard to pick up a little English, but it was not easy. Not only Charbonneau's imperfect knowledge made it hard, but the odd dialects of the men themselves?Scotch and Irish, rough frontier vernacular, Yankee, and pleasant Southern drawl." The journey must have been a delight to the little Indian woman.
Ever so many new and wonderful things!
Flour and sugar were wonderful to her. She asked the cook if she might have some of each to put away to show her little son when he grew up.
Sacagawea often walked on shore with the Captains and especially with Clark whom she trusted most.
They plied her with questions about her people and made an attempt to learn some of the Shoshoni language. " "When you see my people,' Sacagawea told them, 'tell them quickly that you are white men. Tab-ba-bo-ne.
That is the word. Tab-ba- 528 bo-ne.
White man.
Tell them at once. For you are now burned black as the Indians, and no Indians come here except to fight and steal their horses and their women.
Pull up your sleeves and show them your white skin, quickly and cry, 'Tab-ba-bo-ne!'" As the boats got farther up the yellow river, hardships increased, but Sacagawea was one of the staunchest and complained the least. To Charbonneau she was an abject slave waiting upon him, obeying his slightest wish. The Indian woman not only kept her own moccasins and clothing mended, but she mended those of her worthless husband as well as those of the party.
Eager to do her share to make the expedition a success, with her boy on her back she ranged the banks of the river in search of foods that only the natives could find. ' Sacagawea's courage and resourcefulness were exhibited one day when a squall of wind nearly capsized the boat. The Captains were on shore and the boat so nearly sank that many precious articles would have been lost had not the Bird-Woman kept her seat in the back of the boat and gathered them in as they floated past. "'Janey, you are a good soldier!' they declared. 'You are a great mariner! How did you get all this stuff?' "'I picked it out of the river,' she said simply. 'As it went swimming by, I caught it with my hands. It is our Great Medicine. Our Great Medicine must not drown.' "Janey, you should be captain of our fleet?no, our admiral! You are a real hero! You have saved the expedition!'" After the party had landed and had eaten, the Captains said to each other: " "The squaw is a good woman. She is no coward?like some'." In the meantime, as they went along, the two Captains, Ordway, Whitehouse, and Gass were recording the incidents of the trip from which this book we are studying was made. Mrs.
Heuston took those same journals with her and made the trip up the Missouri and down to the Ocean, just as they had done except, of course, she went in an automobile and not in the slow-moving boats. So impressed was Clark with the intelligence and loyalty of the Bird-Woman that "In mapping the tributaries of the Missouri, Clark suggested that they name a creek for Sacagawea in recognition of her resourcefulness and courage in salvaging their goods from the river. The voyagers went slowly toward their goal. The boats gave them trouble; the bears attacked them; a buffalo bull nearly wrecked their boat, but they kept on until at last they were beyond the trail ever made by any white man. And all the time the little Bird-Woman grew in favor. ' Hardships, poor food, and the care of her boy had their effect upon Sacagawea. She finally fell ill and came close to dying, to the sorrow of the entire party who waited upon her as best they could, the two Captains giving her every aid.
Lewis prescribed, but Clark gave her the medicine.
Whitehouse wrote in his book: "Our squaw is very sick and I am very sick myself." The men of the party had been so fine, on the whole, that one day when they were near Great Falls, Montana, Clark said: " 'We could have combed the world and not found a finer crew....' "'There is God's truth in those words,' Lewis replied. 'There must have been some divine influence > back of their selection'.
LESSON DEPARTMENT The portage around the Great Falls was most difficult.
Storms added to their peril and hardships. Clark, Sacagawea, Charbonneau and the baby came nearly being swept to their death by a flood, but the little Indian woman was as courageous during floods on land as she had been on the river and her husband about as worthless.
Near this spot they celebrated July 4, 1805. It was only a few days later that Lewis noting the abstraction of Sacagawea, asked her if she were ill. " 'This is the land of my people,' she said dreamily. 'I have been here.
Many snows ago. My tribe comes here. The Three Forks is very close. We shall see my people soon'."
They went on and soon came to "three noble rivers" which they christened the Gallatin, Madison and Jefferson, "the author of our enterprise." As soon as Clark, who had been sick, was able, they went on halting for dinner on that day on the exact spot where Sacagawea had been captured by the Minitarees. The men clustered about her following her from point to point, to hear her exciting tale afresh on the side of its occurrence." As the party went forward, Sacagawea became more and more agitated. Her meeting with her brother, Chief Camehwait is very cleverly told by our author.
Sacagawea was so much perturbed that she was unable to continue as interpreter. Lewis, the fine gentleman that he was, seeing her agitation, postponed the council until she could converse with her brother and learn about her people. It was for this contact that the little Bird-Woman had been brought along. Had she not been with the party, it is doubtful if the Expedition could have succeeded. She 529 learned of the disaffection of her brother in time to tell Lewis who, through his diplomacy, won the chief's aid.
While camped with her own people, Sacagawea was told by Lewis that White Bear, who had been her betrothed, still claimed her. The little woman, so long a slave, felt that there was nothing to do but to remain with her husband. However, Lewis once again revealed his sagacity and bought White Bear off, allowing Sacagawea to continue with them to the very edge of the great Ocean.
After almost unbelievable hardships, the expedition finally got across the Rocky Mountains and on October 7, 1805, launched their improvised boats upon the Snake River and were off for the coast. At last the party came in sight of the great bay and later the ocean.
They had made the trip in safety.
Spending a miserable winter on the cold and rainy coast they set out upon the return journey the following spring.
Many of the incidents of that winter, Mrs.
Heuston has related with charm and a deep understanding of human nature. The closing paragraphs of chapter fifteen, beginning with "Going home!" might well be read in class. It was on a Sunday, March 23, 1805, that the little party, the Indian woman and her half-breed child among them, took to their boats for the long journey up the Columbia and back over the shining mountains.
Poor little Indian slave of the lazy bad man! How surprised she would be to learn what has been written in many books about her! How surprised to know that thousands of white women are studying the incidents of her life gleaned from the things that "were written in the book. 530
Suggestions for Study
1. Trace the movements of the party from the Mandan towns to the mouth of the Columbia River. The map could well be brought into use again here.
2. Have members of the class, where more than one text is available, have passages of beauty ready to quote.
3. Picture as best you can Sacagawea's meeting with her brother.
4. Note that in the second paragraph of Chapter 13 the Lemhi River is mentioned. It might be well to have someone give a brief sketch of the Lemhi settlement in Idaho, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the first white settlement to be made in that state. It was made by the Mormons, Lemhi being a Book of Mormon name.
5. Picture Christmas 1805 as these people celebrated it at the mouth of the Columbia. Note Sacagawea's Christmas present to the "Red Head."
6. Evaluate Mrs. Heuston's story as literature. Has she succeeded well in presenting situations, characters, actions?
The quotations in this lesson from Star of the West, by Ethel Hueston, Copyright 1935, used by special permission of the publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company.
Social Service Lesson II
FREEDOM OF SPEECH
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter XXI.
FREEDOM of speech is one of the rights of an enlightened culture which people should respect and cherish as a privilege. In comparison to the history of man, free expression in society, both in its written and its verbal form, is of very recent date.
Even the idea that each member of a country has the right to expect his government to protect his person and his property is a comparatively new acquisition to citizenship.
Such a concept has developed gradually through the passing of the centuries in which government has slowly taken shape. And hundreds of years of struggle have been required to extend civil liberty to include such rights as freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and fair trial for misdeeds. But, as with all desirable rights, the enjoyment of these privileges is attended by corresponding dangers and responsibilities.
Personal liberty incurs the responsibility of obedience to law.
Freedom of speech and of the press also necessitates very definite obligations. As always, the greater the amount of freedom and the number of privileges which a government grants to its people, the more sacred is the trust which has been vested in them, and the greater is the responsibility for respecting the trust. To contemporaries, the privilege of freedom of speech might seem old, but comparatively speaking, it is of recent date. The law is still new in its application, and even today, it is sometimes questioned.
Because neither its meaning nor its obligation is very generally understood, the following purposes will be indicated in regard to the subject in this lesson: 1. To understand the meaning and privileges of freedom of speech. 2. To understand the limitations LESSON DEPARTMENT which should act as a restraint upon public utterance in order that the law may be exercised with caution. The expression "freedom of speech" will here include both its written and verbal aspects, or the freedom of the spoken word and that of the press. It means that a citizen has the right to speak for himself or an organization without restriction. The opinions which he expresses may harmonize with or directly oppose the established order. But in either case, according to the legal rights of the individual, the freedom to express himself may not be questioned. The early foundations of the Western nations was laid upon the struggle for civil and political rights.
Those who settled the New World desired freedom to worship, to write, and to speak as they pleased.
They also claimed the right to earn a living as they wished.
Before the constitution of the United States was accepted those who drew up the document found it necessary to attach the Bill of Rights. This Bill included the specifically mentioned guarantees that no law could ever be passed which might limit the freedom of worship or abridge the right of free speech, free assembly, or the right of petition.
Similar provisions have been incorporated in each state constitution as it has been drawn up. It is under such guarantees that street and public meetings for the preaching of the Latter-day Saint gospel and similar functions have been guaranteed. It is an understood fact in democracies that people do not belong to the government, but that the government belongs to the people. No problem can be solved in a representative nation without the fullest and freest discussion.
Ideas and theories on practices of governments, " 531 economic policies, principles of worship, and the value of social customs always differ. But unrestrained discussion of such differences lends stability to the basic institutions which are under consideration.
Naturally there is no escape from much that is neither wise nor provident. But although a subversive condition may gain ascendency from time to time, falsehood and unsound ideas usually become gradually sifted out and discarded once they are made plain to the public.
Thus freedom of speech becomes a great asset to a nation.
Freedom of speech also acts as a safety valve by which grievances find an escape through discussion. If they are justified, rectification may occur; if not, their folly may become plain.
Freedom of discussion in regard to vexing problems on which there is great diversity of opinion also helps to clarify the spirit and logic of opposite points of view.
Although the wisest course is not always taken, the discussion should help to point the way towards the achievement of what is desirable, or, at least, worth attempting as a measure of government. Oliver Wendell Holmes said: "The best test of the truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market."
Even though these rights have been found very useful to both the government and to the governed, and although they are guaranteed by the organic law of the land, they have been repeatedly challenged.
Although new conditions are constantly arising which call for interpretation, there are some elements in society which would suppress the freedom of speech. In times of national stress and disaster, laxness in moral standards produces a temporary breakdown in law enforcement. The right to free expression is then 532 restricted. For example: during the struggle between the forces of abolition and those of slavery that preceded the Civil War, the suppression of civil liberties occurred in many states.
Among these suppressions was the curtailment of the freedom of speech.
During labor controversies strikers have been repeatedly imprisoned and driven from their homes in spite of the constitutional guarantees of personal protection, property rights, and that of freedom of speech.
Present disputes over new governmental forms and over the rights of laborers versus their employers are bringing the same rights into question. It is true that although some rights which are guaranteed by law have not always been protected, such rights are often spoken of as "sacred" by those who at times violate the guarantees. However, freedom of speech is a right which should be exercised with care. It is a tool or a weapon of defense to be used by individuals and organizations throughout the nation. But it has been used in the past, and it can be used during the present, so unwisely that it has created a reactionary force which has in turn resulted in greater restriction of freedom.
When mob violence was used to drive the Mormons out of their successive settlements, with its culmination in Illinois and Missouri, the mob suffered, as did the country in general, in the reaction to the violence. The government restricted the right of freedom of speech to a large extent for some time after the persecution.
Because the mob took upon itself the punishment of those whom its defendants wished to restrict, the whole country lost a portion of its right to free speech for some time. The loss was shown in the restrictions which were placed upon all people in the matter of exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pressing their honest religious convictions. It is well to realize that such possibilities exist in order to avoid them with due consideration for proper restraint. It is important that the privilege of freedom of speech should not be abused. It is unpardonable to exercise the right towards the destruction of liberty.
Although freedom of speech is a fundamental law of the country, it should never be interpreted to justify a concerted attack upon government or upon any form of society.
There is a limit that must be placed upon the freedom of speech. It shall not directly give rise to an unlawful act. The Supreme Court of the United States has clearly pointed out some of the limitations of this law as the following quotation illustrates: "That a state in the exercise of its police power may punish those who abuse this freedom by utterances inimical to the public welfare tending to incite crime, disturb the public peace, or endanger the foundations of organized government, and threaten its overthrow by unlawful means, is not open to question." United States Supreme Court, 268 U S 652. It is clear however that it is the use and not the abuse of free speech that should be emphasized. And because fanatics and demagogues frequently do wrongfully appeal to sympathy or resort to violence to gain their ends, the public should be on constant guard against their devices in the name of free speech.
People must learn to recognize the natural and reasonable restrictions that really act as a safeguard to the law.
Along this line of thought, Mr. M. C.
Harrison in Censorship of Speech and the Press, by Berman, LESSON DEPARTMENT has suggested limitations somewhat as follows: 1.
There is no excuse under the plea of free speech to one who directly or intentionally incites unlawful action. 2. All governments have the power to determine how near to, or how remote from immediate incitement to crime, the law will take cognizance of spoken words. 3. The extent of free speech, or better, the amount of social tolerance to minority opinions, depends directly upon the general sense of security within a country. In war times the margin of security is reduced.
Since the public mind then becomes hysterical and apprehensive, a large degree of social tolerance and the so-called right to free speech disappears. For example, during the World War, any one who expressed sympathy for any belligerent was apt to be branded as an undesirable citizen. If the person was of foreign birth the social intolerance was extreme.
Arrest or ejection from the country was often demanded. But in times of peace the same kind of remark is not subject to particular notice.
During periods when communism, Anarchy, or other radical departures from accepted governmental forms are being widely discussed, the basic guides for restriction should be kept in mind.
Although free discussion is lawful and may contribute to a wholesome philosophy of life, no one has the right to promote or encourage unlawful acts under the protection of the law.
Just as mob violence weakened the principle of law observance and order in the United States, the Inquisition which was the persecution of protestants who were bold enough to express their religious views, prolonged the Dark Ages in earlier history. 533
When restriction originates in government itself, liberal citizenship is denied. For example: the once great religious leaders in Russia and Germany have disappeared. Loss of property and other dire consequences have also resulted. And when citizens do not respect the right of free speech, we have such dreadful occurrences as assassination of presidents. Two United States chief executives, Abraham Lincoln and William McKinley, have lost their lives because radicals have not granted those presidents the right to express their views according to law, and also because the radicals were unwilling to attempt the accomplishment of their purposes through the regular channels of discussion. Thus there is a happy medium to be sought. Both repression of the law of freedom of speech by a government and its abuse by the citizens result in periods of restriction to the exercise of the right. That group or organization which understands the meaning and privileges of freedom of speech has within its grasp a powerful means for the achievement of many desirable purposes. But where such priceless and hard-earned privileges are enjoyed, those who have the right to them should sense the obligations and limitations of such power. People should realize that freedom of speech should be used for the building up of institutions and for the improvement and intelligent advancement of mankind and never for destructive purposes or discord.
Activities
1. Prepare a report on the difficulties experienced by missionaries in teaching the gospel through street meetings. How much of the opposition has been due to the failure of 534 people to recognize the rights of free speech?
2. On all questions of social policy and change why is it a good thing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to allow an organized minority ample time to discuss its opinions before any legislative step is taken?