[Vol24 | August 1937 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Answered Russon]
Answered (A True Story) By Fern J. B. Russon
A SLIM little lady with a halo of wavy gray hair and a shy, sweet face sat on the back row in the cozy Relief Society room. She always sat there, as her retiring nature demanded just such a place. She was an earnest member, and as a visiting teacher had many a day trudged through heat of sun and cold of snow and wind to carry comforting words into a bereaved home. Many a night she had stood faithfully near a weary mother, worn with anxious hours of waiting and watching over a sick child. Many a dish of hot wholesome food had she carried to the lonely old couple around the corner from her little home.
But she was so shy. Timidity always conquered when she felt an urge to arise and give voice to the testimony that lay deep and sincere in her heart. Timidity tied her tongue when she felt sure she knew the answer to a question or the proper solution of a problem in the lesson. Timidity nearly ruined her joy every time the idea struck her that the Sister in charge might call on her to offer the opening prayer. And if such a calamity passed her by, she would sit in fear until some one else had been called to pronounce the benediction. But as the years went by and her anxieties had proven groundless, she gained a slight degree of assurance that she needn't worry.
One day when she really didn't happen to be thinking about it, she was startled by the softly spoken words, "Sister Silver, will you offer the opening prayer for us, please?"
She sat for an instant, stupefied. Then, quickly sensing the silence hanging on her response, she said slowly and in a low tone, "I'd rather not. I'm sorry."
SOME one else answered the repeated request and nothing was said about the refusal. Apparently, it was only what almost anyone there would expect from shy, sweet Sister Silver. But down in the heart of the little lady in the back row, there was turmoil, chilling her, reproving her.
"Anna May Silver, why did you do that?" chided a voice within her. "Where is your testimony? What has become of your faith?the faith left to you as a heritage from your pioneer parents and strengthened by your activities in this organization? Really, you ought to be ashamed."
And she was ashamed. "You ought to arise and apologize before this group," continued her prompter, "and tell your President she didn't deserve that answer from you."
These darts and more pricked her soul. She looked sorrowfully at her leader, then bent her head and rested her eyes on the cold, thin hands in her lap. She prayed a deep, silent prayer, "Lord in Heaven, forgive my weakness and my refusal. Truly, Lord, I repent and plead for Thy help in this my hour of great need."
