Not Bread Alone By Elsie C. Carroll Linda's firstborn was eight years old. Today was Eddie's birthday and he was going to have a party. There were two other children now. Jenny Lind was five and Mark would soon be two. Linda and Henry still lived in Ike Lacy's house. They had built on two more rooms, piped in the water, painted the house and fence, and planted lawns and flowers. This morning while Linda was busy preparing for the birthday party, Ike had come to see her. He had written repeatedly to ask if they didn't want to buy the place, but they had always told him they had no way of doing that, and besides they were not planning to remain in Cedar Basin. Ike had looked over the place before coming into the house and Linda could see that he was greatly pleased. "It's some joke," he said, "Me. Writin' to ask you folks to buy my place. Why didn't you write back and ask what I'd give you for your place? When I walked down the durned street, I thought I was lost. I couldn't find that old house Cissy and me had built and lived in for near twenty years; but here was this stylish looking house standin' where ours ought to be." "You don't mind our changing it, do you? You remember we wrote and told you we were fixing it up from time to time. We wanted to do that to pay for living in it—you charging so little rent." "Well, you've made some place out of it. If Cissy was with me I wouldn't be surprised if she wouldn't want to stay. It looks like you've been renovatin' the whole town too. It don't look like Cedar Basin to me. When you come here they wasn't a house in the whole burg had any paint on, was they?" "Some of them had been painted," Linda laughed. "That's what gave us the idea of setting the fashion again." "Well, you've done wonders; I wouldn't a thought it could be done. And it all started, I was just thinkin' as I walked around, with your bringin' that piano of yours here, and puttin' it in the church and givin' lessons free to the kids. We can't ever thank you for what you done for Emmie. She's gone right on with her music and is still doin' fine, and they tell me that Phoebe Larson is in Boston playin' in a church." "Yes," said Linda, "we're very proud of Phoebe." She thought of the time when she herself had dreamed of studying in Boston or New York and becoming a great pianist or singer. That seemed ages ago. Yet she knew she loved music as much as if she had gone on. Now her dream was that some time one or more of her children would achieve the goals she had once set for herself. "Is that the same piano?" Ike asked as he looked through the door leading to the next room. "Yes, the very same. Perhaps you didn't know that we got up some programs and had bazaars and a few other such things, and finally raised enough money to buy an organ for the church. After that, I NOT BREAD ALONE brought the piano home because I couldn't go away to give lessons after the babies began to come—and I couldn't give up giving lessons." Linda thought happily of all the little fingers she had guided over those ivory keys during her nine years in Cedar Basin. "I just bet you couldn't," Ike laughed. "But didn't I hear once that you sold the piano? What was it? To pay for a doctor to come out when someone was sick, wasn't it? I know how awful Cissy and me felt when we heard it." "Oh, but didn't you hear the lovely thing that happened afterwards, when we got it back? That's why I keep giving music lessons free, Ike. I'm selfish. I get such enormous pay in the long run. You were the first one to start my dividends, and you'll never know what it meant when you let us come here to live just because I'd given Emma a few lessons." "Well, we always felt guilty for chargin' you anything, after all you'd done for her, and hearin' how you was fixin' the place up. Cissy and me has said a lot of times, "Well, we'll just wait till they git ready to buy, then we'll make it up to them,' and if we can't do it that way we'll do it some other way. But what happened about your piano?" "It was when Eddie was born that we sent for Dr. Grieg. We'd heard he wouldn't come for less than five-hundred dollars, and we thought the baby was dying. So we sold the piano to Jim Bancroft. He'd wanted it before on the mortgage he holds on the farm." "And that old skinflint would take it after all you'd done for the town." "I did hope that maybe he'd leave it in the church, or that I at least might rent it to keep on giving lessons. But before I was able to be around, Henry came home one night and said the Bancrofts were going 607 to move and would take the piano. "Well, I didn't sleep at all that night. I've decided since that it's wrong to let oneself become so attached to things, but it just seemed like that piano was a part of me. I learned another lesson, too, out of that experience. That it's foolish to suffer over things before they happen. "Here Henry and I were going about like two funerals while—what do you think was happening? The minister, Reverend Mr. Stone was visiting every home in town and getting people to sign a paper that they'd give so much to Jim Bancroft if he'd leave the piano. And the very day I thought it was going away without my ever seeing it again, here came a grand surprise party—the whole town with picnic and speeches and as a glorious climax, a paper signed by Jim Bancroft that the Linda stopped rolling gingerbread and wiped her eyes. Recalling that scene always choked her. "It was no more than they had ought to a done," declared Ike blowing his nose. "All I wish is that Cissy and me had been here." "How's Henry's Ma?" he asked a moment later. "About the same. She's still troubled with rheumatism and doesn't get around much. They still have more than their share of troubles. The farm doesn't make enough to quite keep up the taxes and the interest on the mortgage, and every year a little more of the land has to be sold. Yet Mrs. Bowers and Melville always think its going to pay better next year and are not willing to give it up and all of us get out somewhere else and start over." "That's what I had to do. This is a Godforsaken part of the country," Ike said. "It sure wasn't meant for farmin'.