Teaching By Vernessa Miller Nagle ONE should seek to be well-informed, to be spiritual as well as "worldly-wise". To be able to impart to youth the desire to grow spiritually and intellectually; to give to youth the impetus for a greater enrichment of life is in itself a mission. Such people are the friends of youth,—the youth of energy as well as the youth of words and dreams. Perhaps in everyone's life there moves a dream figure,—one who stimulates, encourages, awakens the best that is within each of us. Regardless of our shortcomings and inevitable mistakes we like to think that someone has interpreted life to us in its true beauty, and, although we may be disillusioned at every cross-road, we never lose faith that life is good and worth all our efforts. I like to think of Alice Louise Reynolds as such a person. I like to believe that her greatest gift to me was not so much a store of information as a glorious degree of inspiration. It was she who made me love to seek out the wisdom of the masters. It was she who caused me to see the exquisite beauty of a lovely poem, or, to enjoy the "best and happiest moments of the happiest and best minds." It was not especially Miss Reynolds' class-room technique that I recall at this time, but rather the little informal chats with her, her charming stories of beautiful old Vienna with its imposing architecture, its genial gayety—its art, music, and dancing. I recall her interesting tales of schooling abroad, reminiscences of personal acquaintances with men and women of international importance. I learned almost to know personally Alfred Tennyson and Robert Browning from Miss Reynolds' vivid stories of her knowledge of their homes. In retrospect I hear her, even now, telling of the emotions she experienced in viewing for the first time the Passion Play of Oberammergau. I seem almost to hear the insurgent rhythm of her voice as she tells of the triumphant entrance into Jerusalem, the exchange of money, and finally the wind-swept scene of the Cross of Thorns. From the printed page she taught her students to see the beauties they had never noticed. We learned to feel that the love of beauty in life is a potent factor in the soul's constant search for the essentials of happiness and success. My associations with Alice Louise Reynolds will ever remain with me a harmony of things remembered and beloved. Autumn By Elsie E. Barrett Autumn days are in the making With a forecast of the Fall; Brushes ready full of color, Motives from a paisley shawl. Soon we'll see the seed pods changing Into dresses aureate; She will fill our hearts with rapture With her strokes elaborate. May we cherish Autumn's beauty To inspire when drab days vex It will help the thoughts soar upward When earth's schooling seem complex.