HOME ETHICS
======================================================================

HOME ETHICS Lesson VIL The Complete Home. The fundamental principle which promotes gentleness, love, and abiding content in the home is consideration for the feelings of others. That principle and the great love prompting their actions cause parents to make the immense sacrifice which they are sometimes called upon to endure for the sake of their children. We believe the training of a child begins in the conduct of its ancestors long before its own birth. That is called heredity. But we know that good parents do everything that lies in their power to give their children strong healthy bodies, good mentality RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 11 and then to impart and to train the religious feelings. It is one of the greatest of misfortunes to the child and one of the greatest omissions on the part of parents not to have religious training from infancy. In childhood faith in Deity is naturally strong and belief in the wisdom and knowledge of parents is unbounded. The impressions made in infancy and childhood are apt to remain forever. No home life can be complete or perfect while there are defective members. And toward the wayward ones there should be exercised enduring patience, abiding faith, and endless love. Those qualities exercised in the home promote tranquility and often work wonders with erring ones. That saying of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "The Glory of God is intelligence," is one of the most frequently quoted of his remarks. That his followers take it literally is evidenced by the church schools which have been established, and also by the great desire to accumulate knowledge which is manifested by Church members generally. To those who have not had the opportunities they desire, it is good to remember that a little knowledge gained every day makes great accumulations in time. Parents have the advantage over their children in the wisdom that comes with the experience of the years. Children in their turn often enjoy educational advantages in the schools, of which their parents were deprived. Each should remember in his daily life and conduct his own advantages and the lesser advantages of the other. Consideration for the feelings of others begets sympathy which enlarges the understanding. There is nothing more beautiful than a home where love for each member prevails, and a determination on the part of each individual to do his duty every day and to attain to the highest within him. That is ideal. But there is sorrow, none the less real because it may be concealed, where a member is deficient. How the instructions of our blessed Savior taught consecration of one's self to the ideal. His golden rule is really the basic idea in ethics. To practice the golden rule and the greatest commandment ofttimes means sacrifice of personal desire, but a spiritual uplift is the result. When we really love, we desire to serve. Our Heavenly Father knew that when he said, "If ye love me. keep my commandments." A teacher in early Utah days, noted for her good instructions, often repeated the axiom to keep her pupils reminded "Good manners spring from the heart." One reason parents so love their children is because of the loving service they give them during the years of helplessness and dependence. Then it is only just to the children themselves 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. that they be taught to render in turn loving service to their parents. The following quotation seems appropriate here "It is: characteristic of human nature that our love for any object is increased by doing loving service for it. If we do not train our children to the loving service to parents, and to each other, we sadly weaken the bonds of family unity. This is doubtless one reason that we often find these bonds strongest, not among the rich, where plenty of servants take away the necessity and often the opportunity of doing kindly deeds to others, but in the home of moderate competence, where loving hands minister to each other's necessities." The Bible in the home should be a strong factor in the training of children. Learning Scripture passages and chapters in childhood is sure to be a comfort in the years to come. Everyone should be able to repeat without mental effort, giving chapter and verse, the Ten Commandments, the Lord's Prayer, the Sermon on the Mount, the Twenty-third Psalm, the Golden Rule, and the greatest commandment also many others, but; particularly those six. The study of the Book of Mormon is fascinating to children when led by a good instructor. The Faith Promoting Series inspires a belief in the happenings of our own times, and what might be our own experience. By letting our minds dwell upon higher things we often are lifted out of our own petty difficulties and attain the habit of cheerfulness and composure. Cheerfulness is often a matter of habit and may be attained by faith in the Divine power, and determination to conquer weakness and besetting sins. "It is easy enough to be cheerful. When life goes by like a song, But the man worth while is the man who can smile When everything goes dead wrong." QUESTIONS. 1. What great principle promotes the qualities so desirable in a home? 2. When should parents begin the religious training of their children? 3. What is the attitude of young children toward things Divine? Toward their parents? 4. How should we feel towards the weaknesses of relatives or friends? 5. What do you consider the fundamental principle of ethics? 6. What effect is produced by the giving of loving service? : RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 13 7. Name the parts of the Bible mentioned in the text that everyone should be able to repeat. Where are they found? What did Christ declare to be the greatest commandment? Give chapter and verses. 9. Relate some faith promoting experiences with which you are acquainted. 10. What effect on our own lives has the contemplation of matters spiritual or highly moral? September HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN Lesson VII. "For the seed shall be prosperous; the vine shall give her fruit, and the ground shall give her increase, and the heavens shall give their due and I will cause the remnant to this people to possess all these things."  Zech. :8:12. May we hope the above quotation has been literally fulfilled, that our yields of both gardens and fields have been most bounteous and fruitful, that in sowing, and with proper cultivation on our own part, that nature has given to us all we could hope to have received? And in this, as in all other gifts from our Creator, we are thankful and appreciative of the same. It is now time, even in the midst of harvest of this year's yields, to begin the preparation for another year of vegetables, fruits and flowers. Fall Planting, or early planting of onion and spinach seeds, etc. The preparation of soil as given in the March and April numbers of the Bulletin will also apply to the soil conditions for fall planting; only this difference: in planting, it should be remembered that the earth is now warmed to a greater depth, and the digging and plowing must of necessity be much deeper, also the planting of seed should be some deeper than in early spring. Onions and spinach, planted sufficiently early to get a good start, and then properly protected, in extreme cold climates, will be ready to continue growing as soon as the warm days of spring come, and thus produce a good early harvest for family and market use. We should begin preparation of tho soil and planting at once, in order to succeed for next spring's early productions. Sweet Peas: Select for planting sweet peas seeds that are well ripened home grown ones are not usually satisfactory, ; unless great care has been taken to secure them from the best sturdy producers of bloom, and well ripened. By trenching, 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. filling with sandy soil well fertilized, plant on both side of trench, so that your trellis comes in the middle of the two rows, having plenty of sunlight and water. The seeds will soon germinate and push through the soil. When the cold, fall storms set in, cover them with leaves; by this they are well protected and have an early start for spring, and will give you rich returns, by having peas in bloom very much earlier than oy spring planting. Pansies: Pansies may be treated in like manner as sweet peas, only in beds instead of trenches, and not so deep as pea seeds. Pansies planted in August will be early bloomers. Remember how even they must be covered with leaves, or some other suitable covering, in late fall. If you will refer to March, April and May numbers of the Bulletin you will find tables for planting, also kinds of seeds to plant. The "Little Giant" pansy seed is considered very fine. Preserving, Pickling and Jelly-making: Preserving, pickling and jelly-making form an important part in the housewife's busy life, and should be done as far as possible by the adoption of scientific methods, in order that less time and fruit be wasted. Sterilization by heat is the basis of the preservation of food to be bottled or canned. The presence of bacteria is the cause of fermentation and decay. Let us master this by properly cleaning, scalding and sterilizing all utensils, bottles and cans to be used, thus mastering the essential principles. Fruits that are not quite ripe are better adapted for preserving, and especially for jelly-making, than over-ripe fruit. All fruits should be freshly picked, and that of inferior quality should be discarded and used immediately. To sterilize jars, have two pans partly filled with cold water, place jars in one, laying them on their sides, place covers or lids in the other pan now let them heat to boiling point, ; and let boil five or ten minutes. Having attended strictly to this, we are now prepared to bottle our fruit. Use only fresh rubbers it is poor economy to buy cheap; rubbers or use them a second time as a general rule black rubbers are more durable than white ones. Jellies: Acid fruit is most suitable for jelly-making, though in some of the acid fruits there is but little of the substance called pectin, such as strawberries, which causes the fruit to jell, and the pectin must be in the right condition. Such fruits as red currants, black currants, raspberries, strawberries, crabapples, quinces, grapes, etc., are most desirable for preserves and jellies. For further information write U. A. College for Circular No. 25, Vol. II, U. S. Dept. of Agriculture, Farmers Bulletin 359. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 15 September