WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CLOSE OF BERLIN MEETINGS
Mrs. Ida H. Harper writes:
	It was a fitting culmination of the most
remarkable Congress of Women ever held
that it should close with an official recep-
tion by the burgermeister and Municipal
Council of Berlin, capital of the vast and
powerful German Empire.
	The Rath-Haus, or town hall, is one of
the many imposing edifices for which this
city is noted, and was honestly built in
1861-70, at a cost of 10,000,000 marks. Its
tower is 243 feet in hight, and the inter-
ior is rich with paintings, sculpture, and
decorations such as are not found in any
building in the United States. The broad
marble staircase was so banked with
palms and flowers as to have the appear-
ance of a garden on either side. At the
top is a lofty and spacious hall with many
marble columns, and in the centre a large
fountain surrounded by blooming and aqu-
atic plants. Near this, with the ladies of
the Berlin Council Committee, stood the
Board of Magistrates, with heavy gold
chains and medals about their necks, to ex-
tend a cordial welcome to the guests. The
latter numbered 600—visitors to the Con-
gress and prominent men and women of
Berlin—and after the invitations were is-
sued, no pressure could secure one addi-
tional, so rigid and systematic are the re-
strictions which prevail here in everything.
At nine o’clock the magnifieent banquet
hall—the Fest Saal—was thrown open,
showing tables far more richly decorated
than would be possible in our White House.
The marble pillars, coffered ceiling, carved
oak doors, richly panelled walls, beautiful
chandeliers, paintings and statuary, made
a picture not to be forgotten.

[Column 2]
	The toasts were the significant feature of
the evening. It was not a slight and irre-
levant circumstance that a burgermeister of
Berlin, an official of high rank, elected for
twelve years, should for the first time in
all history welcome a gathering of women
in the town hall of the city. Nor was this
a perfunctory and meaningless function,
for standing in the place of honor, with dis-
tinguished women from all parts of the
globe on either side of him, he said, in the
course of an extended speech:
	“Who can fail to recognize the fact that
the women’s movement of today, pressing
forward with the might of an elementary
force, contains a sound and valuable foun-
dation, that it ushers in a significant and
promising epoch in the development of the
human race? That this fact is recognized—
willingly and joyfully recognized—among
the men of this city, let this festivity this
evening bear witness to the women. And
so, in behalf of the municipal authorities of
Berlin, I welcome the members of the Inter-
national Woman’s Congress with all my
heart as co-workers for the welfare of hu-
manity in the sphere of public life. May
all the hopes that the women themselves
attach to this movement be completely real-
ized, and may their co-operation bear rich
and abundant fruit!”
	Burgermeister Kirschner was followed by
Dr. Langerhaus, president of the Board of
Magistrates, or aldermen, and for many
years a member of the Prussian House of
Deputies. He made a most progressive ad-
dress in which he used these unmistakable
words:
	“We fully support your efforts for justice
and we gladly take our stand in favor of
equal rights for women and men. . . .
Rest assured that we have followed your
proceedings wilh the greatest interest, and
that we will cheerfully support you
till you have attained your goal of equal
rights for men and women.”
	At the close of each of these addresses
the whole company sprang to their feet
with uplifted glasses and cries of “Hoch!
hoch!” whose fervor never can be under-
stood till one has heard them given by an
audience of Germans. And then in this
great hall, one woman after another lifted
to a chair that they might be seen and heard
expressed their appreciation of the welcome
extended by Germany to the Congress and
its ideas, and voiced their determination
never to cease their efforts till all that they
stood for had been attained; and not a dis-
senting opinion was evoked from all the
throng of listeners.
	Twice has this International Council been
held in our country, and during past years
many other large meetings have called
there the distinguished women of the
world. Never have they received such
official recognition from any city in which
their conventions have been held.
	This International Council and Congress
have demonstrated in a high degree the
wonderful organizing ability of German
women, as the arrangements were entirely
in their hands. It was a wholly new ex-
perience for them, but they put into it the
same system and thoroughness with which
for generations they have managed their
households, and the German “hausfrau”
is noted among the women of all nations
The Philharmonie, where the meetings
were held, is one of the largest music halls
in the world, and has under one roof four
great audience rooms, besides many others
for various purposes. It was turned over

[Column 3]
to the Berlin Committee of eleven women
just three days before the Congress was to
open, and at once they put a hundred peo-
ple at work. Temporary partitions were
made wherever needed, and thus long cor-
ridors and bare apartments were trans-
formed into art galleries, drawing-rooms,
cafes, tea-rooms, writing rooms, rest-rooms,
etc. Paint was used where it seemed
necessary, draperies, tapestries, and pic-
tures were hung, the platforms were banked
with flowers, the court was transformed
into a garden, and the long entrance porti-
coes into a bower of evergreens. Tables
were provided in each of the four halls for
fifty reporters, and they were present at
most of the meetings. A large room was
equipped with every facility for their send-
ing off reports, including telephone and
telegraph. The government itself estab-
lished a branch post office in the lobby.
Not a detail was omitted which would add
to comfort or convenience, and all this
splendid arrangement was the work of
women, and so perfectly planned that it
could be carried to completion in three
days.
	The program book itself was a marvel, a
pasteboard covered volume of 140 pages,
well indexed. It opened with a brief his-
tory of the Council, what it expected to do,
and a comprehensive introduction to the
various departments which the congress
would consider—education, industries and
professions, charities and philanthropies,
laws, etc. These were followed by the
names of officers, committees, delegates,
and speakers, by countries and alphabetic-
ally; the constitution, by-laws, new amend.
ments proposed, report of last executive
meeting, the full program for every hour,
and a plat and guide for the intricacies of
Philharmonie Hall. Then came the day,
date and directions for all the social enter-
tainments; list of the arts and crafts exhib-
its and the various public institutions which
would be open to the visitors; the addresses
of all the embassies and consulate; location
of the various churches; the galleries and
museums, with hours of admission, the
monuments, open-air gardens and exhibi-
tions, the art shops, the high schools, the
theatres, the popular excursions. Next
were names of hotels, pensions and restaur-
ants which were vouched for; then of
women doctors and dentists; also the street
and number for baths and hairdressers,
steamship offices and railroad stations, lost
and found bureaus, police stations and
emergency hospitals, the legal rate for car-
riage hire, and lastly an excellent map of
Berlin. Really, it seemed to be the most
complete thing of the kind ever issued.
	Before the Congress opened, 2,500 season
tickets had been sold at six marks, (about
$1.50) and hundreds of day tickets were
purchased at two marks. There were over
fifty ushers, all young women from the
high schools under the direction of Fraulein
Alice Salomon, a graduate of Berlin Uni-
versity. Four meetings were in session at
the time in the different rooms, people
going from one to the other, between
speeches, to hear those in whom they were
especially interested, but all was quiet and
orderly. The discipline which one sees
everywhere in Germany was evident here,
and there was never any talking or confu-
sion in the back part of the ball. The ses-
sions began in the morning at nine o’clock
and lasted till half past one or two, and
from eight until ten or eleven in the eve-
ning. Whether the men thought they


[Column 1]
were not wanted, or whether they did not
desire to come, they certainly were not in
evidence, but how the women did swarm
into those halls! Morning and evening,
day after day, young and old, pretty and
homely, well gowned and badly dressed,
eager, alert, hungering and thirsting, ap-
proving with cries of “So, so,” or dissent-
with “Nein, nein,” and rising en masse
when greatly pleased—such an interested,
appreciative, inspiring audience!
	There never was anything like it in
Germany before. There have been, indeed,
but few public meetings here, but it seemed
as if the German women had been ponder-
ing over these questions in their hearts for
many years, and now they were ready to
give them expression. This is not a peo-
ple of fads, quick, spontaneous, superficial
as Americans are apt to be, but slow, con-
servative, philosophical, and speaking at
last with well digested and substantial
thought. That this Council of Women has
stirred Germany, and especialiy Berlin, to
its depths, cannot be doubted by those who
have followed the press comments and
watched the developments of the past weeks.
Nor can it be doubted that its results will
be far-reaching and permanent, for the very
reason that the foundation has been so long
in building. The German women are now
thoroughly organized, they have learned
their power, they have received the recog-
nition of their government, and never again
will they drop back into the subordinate
place which for ages they have been taught
it was divinely ordained they should occu
py. A generation ago the German Empire
was born, and it has made greater progress
in the last thirty years than in all the cen-
turies which preceded, but it has been princi-
pally of a military and commercial charact-
er. The time is now propitious for the
finer and more spiritual force of woman-
hood to make itself felt, and some day in
the future Germany will inscribe another
date on the monuments which record its
achievements—June, 1904—the date which
marked the founding of a new dynasty for
the women of the nation.
	And now the International Congress is a
memory—a recollection of warm, sunny
days, with scarcely a cloud in the sky, of
mornings filled with earnest work and in-
tellectual stimulus; of afternoons in lovely
gardens, with the tea tables under the trees
and the groups of interesting men and
women gathered about them; of new friend-
ships formed and new thought absorbed; of
fresh hope and courage inspired by the
knowledge that throughout all countries
life is growing brighter for women, and
they are striving to make conditions bright-
er for women, and they are striving to
make conditions better for all mankind.
Such beautiful memories we shall carry
home across the seal and with them will
be the remembrance of the splendid city of
Berlin, with its miles of magnificent build-
ings, strong, solid, enduring—emblematic
of the German character. There is not a
city in America which can approach it in
beauty, in order, in cleanliness. We have
but few public buildings which equal those

[Column 2]
of Berlin. There are more large parks
here than in all the cities of the United
States combined, and we have no fountains
which can compare with any one of a dozen
here; all of our statues together fall below
those in this one city in number, and far
below them in artistic merit. Our art col-
lections and museums are not to be men-
tioned in comparison, and we have nothing
which approaches in historic interest these
old palaces and castles.
	There are miles of apartment houses
here but instead of American monstrosities
every story has its overhanging balconies,
filled with bright blossoms and trailing
vines; there is scarcely an individual house
set on a line with the street, but all have
beautiful gardens in front, so that the whole
city looks like a vast conservatory of flow-
ers Through its very centre run both the
canal and the river Spree, but instead of a
disfigurement they are a distinct addition to
its beauty, for extending along either side
are grassy parks with great trees reaching
out over the water, while every bridge that
crosses is embellished with statues and bal-
ustrades and made an ornament to the
street. The elevated trains run over miles
of fine stone arches, with practically no
noise, and each station is surrounded with
a little park with trees and shrubs. On
these and the electric cars the fare is two
cents. No building is more than five stor-
ies in height, and there is not a shadow of
smoke over the entire city. The streets
everywhere are spotless, not a vestige of
dirt or litter, and yet Berlin is a city of
2,500,000 inhabitants. It has no slums and
even its poverty is clean. There is never a
suspicion of scandal attached to its municip-
al government, which is looked upon as
absolutely incorruptible
	And yet, and yet—what is this indefin-
able chill which seems constantly to envelop
one which compels him to speak low and
walk circumspectly? It is that ever pres-
ent and all-permeating military discipline.
Every particle of spontaneity is trained out
of the children, and as soon as the boys are
grown they are put into the army. The
rigid obedience to authority there instilled
goes with them through life and is appar-
ent in every calling. The result is a defer-
ence of each class to the one above it, and,
alas! the inability of any member of it to
rise above the sphere into which he was
born. But when the German goes into the

[Column 3]
United States and into their unattractive
and badly governed towns and cities, he
finds there a freedom of speech, a liberty of
action an opportunity for the individual de-
velopment of himself and his children,
worth far more to him than even the beauty
and historic associations of his fatherland,
and he seldom wishes to leave the new life
and go back to the old. So we women of
America, seeing clearly the superiority of
European cities in countless things, and
realizing fully the imperfections of our own
government, nevertheless believe that it
holds far more of promise for us and those
we love than any other.
				Woman’s Journal.


