		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of Liberty
Stake convened Sept. 3, 1904, in the sec-
ond ward meeting house, Salt Lake City,
at 10 a. m. President Annie S. Musser pre-
siding, and all the members of stake board
being present also General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Counselor Annie T.
Hyde. Meeting opened by singing “Re-
deemer of Israel etc.” Prayer by Sister
Frances M. Smith. Singing, “How Firm
a Foundation etc.” Roll called each ward
responding. Minutes of previous confer-
ence, also the statistical and financial report
read and approved.
	A verbal report was given of all the
wards in the stake, by the respective presi-
dents, all were prospering and in the line
of their duty.
	President Musser welcomed the sisters,
and introduced President B. W. Smith who
spoke on Temple work, and related many
incidents in the early history of the church.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was pleased
with the good reports given, urged the sist-
ers to continue the lectures, and sustain the
authorities by faith and prayers.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke on the dut-
ies of teachers, we must be humble, prayer-
ful and united, and strive to do right.
	Closed by singing “Praise to the Man
etc.,” after which prayer was offered by
Sister Sarah Chamberlain.
	Afternoon session: Conference reconven-
ed at 2 o’clock, President B. W. Smith,
Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Secretary
Emmeline B. Wells of the General Gfficers
and S. J. Cannon, E. Webb, L. W. Kimb-
all and E. J. Stevenson, being present.
Singing, “Now let us Rejoice, etc.”
Prayer by Sister Elizabeth Webb, contin


ued by singing, “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet, etc.” President Smith again
addressed the sisters, and said let our works
be works of righteousness, and gave many
good instructions. Sister Emmeline B. Wells
gave a short lecture on the subject of
“Peace” and felt through the efforts of
woman a better condition of things could
be effected.
	Counselor Z. J. Eardley presented the
names of the general board also the names
of the officers of Liberty Stake all were un-
animously sustained. 
	Sister Maggie Hull favored us with a
solo. Sister Sarah J. J. Cannon member of
the General Board exhorted us, to do all
the good we could and search out the
worthy poor, made many excellent sugges-
tions, referred to some of President George
Q. Cannon’s views on peace.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said if we were
true followers of Christ, in the true sense
of the word, we would be advocates for
peace all the time, try and carry a peaceful
influence with us, and we would be the
means of doing much good, also spoke about
the nurses class.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball gave the sisters
some very good advice. Sister Elizabeth
Webb thought it our duty to assist the young
to keep in the straight and narrow path, and
do good at all times.
	Sister Hull favored us with another solo.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success.
Adjourned for three months. Singing
“Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere Desire.” Ben-
ediction by Counselor Mary E. Hodgson.
	LIZZIE ROBBINS, Stake Secretary.


