NATIONAL COUNCIL WOMEN—UNITED
			STATES.
My dear co-workers:
	In pursuance of the plan inaugurated in
my letter of April 22nd, I write to indicate
the way in which it seems to me best to
arrange the postponed annual demonstra-
tion on behalf of Peace and Arbitration,
which in the usual order would have been
set for May 16th, but on account of the
Thirteenth International Congress of Peace,
which is to convene in Boston the first week
in October, was deferred. The plans for
the congress are now so fully made that we
may go forward with our own.
	The congress in Boston will open on
Monday, October 3d, but will be preceded by
a great demonstration on Sunday, October
2nd. The pastors of the leading Boston
churches of all denominations have agreed
to devote the morning service of that day
to the Peace cause. In the afternoon there
will be a large special meeting at Tremout
Temple. It seems, therefore, eminently
proper that the Peace and Arbitration Com-
mittee of the National Council of Women
of the United States shall ask the clergy
throughout the country to devote the morn-
ing service of Sunday, October 2nd, to
some phase of the subject of peace and ar-
bitration.
	The meeting in Boston will occupy the
entire week. I feel that we can get the
benefit of the enthusiasm which this Thir-
teenth International Congress may excite,
as reports of it shall be disseminated by the
press throughout the country; and I there-
fore recommend that our committee shall.
through its various subordinate branches,
endeavor to have the demonstration ar-
ranged for Saturday, October 8th. I feel
that our general plan should coincide with
that of previous demonstrations.
	First. Let a member of each local com-
mittee seek to address the “clergymen’s
meeting,” and thus get a personal op-
portunity to ask ministerial associations
to take action in regard to this use of Sun-
day, October 2nd; or let each local commit-
tee send out to all of the clergymen of your
community a circular letter making the
same request. The fact that the great
meetings are going forward at Boston on
that date will inevitably secure the favor of
clergymen who otherwise might be unin-
terested, and will add zest to local meet-
ings.
	Second. Let each local committee organ-
ize a press committee, and make it the duty
of the committee on press to see that ade-
quate notices are given of the approaching
Peace Congress in Boston and of the ap-
proaching peace demonstration; of Mr. Ed-
win D. Meade, the chairman of the com-
mittee on organization of the congress, and
of Mr. Benjamin F. Trueblood, the secre-
tary, both of whom may be addressed, 20
Beacon Street, Boston, Mass. Lists of
foreign speakers, preliminary announce-
ments, programs, etc., may be obtained,
which if you can have reproduced either in
whole or in part in your local papers will
help turn the attention of the community
to the subject.
	Third. I take the liberty of giving below
pertinent subjects for discussion at the dem-
onstration:
	1. The pecuniary cost of war.
	2. The moral results of war.
	3. The effect of war upon the national
ideal of American citizenship.


[Column 1]
	4. The story of the organization of the
court of arbitration.
	5. A statement of cases that have already
been presented before it.
	6. Consideration of differences existing
among peoples at the present time which
properly should be referred to the court of
arbitration.
	7. The incompatibility of the Christian
life with war, its practices, its ideals.
	Fourth. Certainly, every member of our
committee should be a subscriber to "The
Advocate of Peace," which is published by
the American Peace Society at 31 Beacon
Street, Boston, and can be obtained for
$1.00 a year. Every issue of the Advocate
contains a list of peace literature with
prices. Even so small a sum as $2.00,
wisely used, would fill the hands of any
local committee with means of information
which again wisely used through the local
press, would do much to incline public
feeling in right directions, and to educate
the public to the atrocity of war and the
practicability of the methods of arbitration.
	Fifth. It is very desirable that great
pains should be taken not to allow the se-
lection of speakers to be influenced by lo-
cal conditions, and if possible to have
speakers from both of the leading political
parties; indeed, in the arrangement of the
entire program, it is wise to have as many
different shades of political opinion and as
many different religious sects represented as
possible. This will give to the program
that non-partizan air which is indispensable
to success.
	Sixth. May I suggest that the members
of this committee take the greatest possible
pains to secure adequate and numerous
reports of the local meetings in the local
press. Nay, I also ask every member of
my committee and every chairman of a
subordinate local committee who had the
management of a peace meeting in charge
kindly to send to my address the newspaper
reports of the meeting.
	Seventh. May I also remind all persons
having charge of meetings, that we desire
the resolution which has been passed at our
annual demonstrations since 1900 again to
be passed at the coming demonstration? It
goes without saying, that wherever a local
council exist, the local council is the prop-
er medium through which meetings in con-
nection with this universal demonstration
should be arranged. Where no local coun-
cil exists, if the person kindly taking the
meeting in charge would, as far as possible,
follow the council method by making up a
committee of organization, which should be
representative of all the leading organiza-
tions of the place, it seems as if both the
question in hand "Peace and arbitration"
and the "Council ideal" would be pro-
moted.
	Finally. May I ask everyone into whose
hands this letter comes kindly:
	First. To acknowledge its receipt?
	Second. To report to me from time to
time her own progress in the work?
	Third. Not later than Monday, October
10, to send to my address, in the most con-
densed form, answers to the following ques-
tions:

[Column 2]
	(a) To what degree did the elergymen
respond to the request concerning the serv-
ices of October 2nd?
	(b) How many meetings were you able
to organize?
	(c) How many addresses were there at
each meeting?
	(d) How many persons in actual attend-
ance?
	(e) How many were represented by elect-
ed delegates?
	(f) Did your meeting pass the resolu-
tions?
	(g) Additional comment.
	I feel confident that if you will go to
work immediately upon the receipt of this
letter and secure as many of your friends as
possible to aid you in executing its sugges-
tions, you will be able to witness great suc-
cess on October 8th, and have the pleasure
of reporting such success to me on October
10th.
	The presence of so many foreigners in
this country, all of whom are deeply inter-
ested in the demonstration, should add
greatly to the zest of our workers.
	There is one condition under which I
think it excusable to change the date and
character of the Peace meeting that you
shall organize. If, after having obtained
from Mr. Meade the list of foreign delegates
who will be assembled at Boston, you find
there are any whose presence would awak-
en great popular interest in your commun-
ity, and if by correspondence with them
you find that you can obtain their serv-
ice by holding a Peace meeting at a later
date, it might be well for you to do so.
Yet even then, my judgment is, that so lim-
ited is the fame of our Peace workers com-
pared with that of the workers in other 
lines of public beneficence, that you would
be likely to have a better Peace meeting for
one of the foreign speakers to address, if
that special and particular meeting were
preceded by the proposed annual demon-
stration.
	In the Woman's Journal of Angust 6th,
you can, if you desire, find my account of
the Peace Meeting of the International
Council at Berlin—by all means the most
remarkable meeting held during that fort-
night. You know that that paper can be 
obtained by application to the office of the
Woman's Journal, No. 5 Park Street, Bos-
ton, Mass. In the Evening Boston Tran-
script of August 6th is an article relating to
the work accomplished for peace during the
late quinquennial. You might be interest-

[Column 3]
ed in the information contained in these
two articles, and might be helped in your
plan of work by reading them.
