				ANN C. WOODBURY.


[Column 1]
BISHOP’S BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	September 5th, 1904, a very pleasing en-
tertainment and banquet was tendered the
Bishop of the Sixth Ward, Salt Lake City,
Bishop James C. Watson by the brethren,
sisters, friends and guests. Among the in-
vited guests were present Elder Jos. E.
Taylor and wife. The occasion being in
honor of his sixtieth anniversary. The Re-
lief Society Officers and Mutual and Pri-
mary Association were untiring in their
efforts to make it a success, aided and
associated by Counselors Alex Burt, Albert
E. Boulton and Elder Arnold G. Giauque.

[Column 2]
The tables were beautifully decorated with
flowers and ferns, fruits, etc.
	After thanks being offered by Elder
Arnold G. Giauque two hundred and fifty
brethren partook of the supper. The Pres-
dent and young ladies of the Mutual in a
very courteous manner presided over the
tables.
	After supper there were exercises in the
Assembly Hall up stairs. Singing, “Guide
us O Thou Great Jehovah,” led by Elder
Thomas Green. Prayer by Elder Jos.
E. Taylor.
	Brother Taylor in a few well chosen
words congratulated the Bishop on having
attained his sixtieth birthday. Spoke of his
integrity to the Gospel, his kind charitable
acts to the poor, his fortitude during his
long sickness, his energy in attending to his
duties as far as his strength permitted him
Also of the integrity of the Bishop’s par-
ents to the Gospel; their kind acts and
charitable deeds to many who came to Utah
in hard times, who were in need; he had a
warm feeling for the Watson family. Pray-
ed the Lord to ease him of his pain and pro-
long his life if it was His will. Also coun-
seled his family to comfort and cheer him
in his affliction.
	Counselor Alice Butterworth in a very
pleasing manner in behalf of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, presented the Bishop
with a beautiful life sized photograph of
himself in a neat frame. Spoke of the in-
tegrity of the Bishop to the gospel, his kind
counsel to the Relief Society. Wished him
many happy returns of the day. Counselor
Margaret Leatham spoke of her long ac-
quaintance with the Bishop dating from
her childhood days; she had experienced
the hardships and privations incident to
the early days of Utah with the Bishop and
those who were here in these valleys at that
time. These things had endeared us to
each other.
	President Ellen R. Watson in behalf of
the Relief Society brethren and sisters of
the ward who had so kindly and ably as-
sisted in the entertainment thanked them.
The Bishop must feel honored by the re-
spect and love shown him by the Saints
and friends. Felt to thank her Heavenly
Father for His many blessings, knew He
had sustained the Bishop who had suffered
much pain in his long sickness congratula-
ted him on this his anniversary.
	Sister E. W. Condie appreciated the
kind council the Bishop had given her
prayed the Lord to bless him, and ease him
of his pain and suffering. Wished him
many happy returns of the day.
	First Counselor, of the Stake Relief
Society Lucy Smith Acomb, congratulated
the Bishop on this, his annniversary. Also
presented him with a beautiful birthday
cake decorated with sixty small American
flags.
	President Y. L. M. I. Association, Louisa
Giauque felt honored in assisting on this
occasion. Hoped the Bishop would have
many happy anniversaries, felt to honor him
and wish him many happy returns of the
day.
	Counselor Alexander Burt spoke of the
sterling qualities and integrity of the Bish-
op, his fortitude during his long sickness,
his charitable acts to the poor. Paid
high tribute to his parents who had passed
on the other side.
	Elder James Leatham spoke of his long
acquaintance with the Bishop, his kindness
to the poor, none ever went from his home
without being assisted and a kind word of


encouragement given them. Felt to honor
his parents whom he knew were of the true
blood of Ephraim, for he many times in ad-
ministering to them felt this to be true.
Congratulated the Bishop on this his anni-
versary.
	Counselor Albert E. Poulton also felt to
wish the Bishop many happy returns of the
day. Spoke of his integrity, his endurance
during his two terms of incarceration for the
truth and for obeying the laws of God.
	Elder Thomas Winter spoke of the early
days of Utah the trials and hardships the
Saints underwent at that time. The Bishop
sharing with his parents, brothers and sist-
ers in the same all feel to honor our Bishop
for his integrity to the gospel. The follow-
ing programme was beautifully rendered.
	Recitation, Sister Sarah J. Watson, en-
titled “The Martyrdom of Joseph and Hy-
rum.” Song entitled, “Many Happy Re-
turns of the Day,” by Bro. James H.
Poulton. Organist, Sister Louisa Giauque.
Scotch recitation by Lillie Hunter, “Our
Country Days.” Quartette by Misses Mabel
Poulton, Nettie Poulton, Florence Poulton
and Louisa Giauque, Quartette by Brother
Albert E. Poulton, Albert G. Langton,
George Hickenlooper, James Fullmer, Ray-
mond Cowborne; Entitled “My own dear
Mountain Home.” Song by Primary As-
sociation “Count your many Blessings.”
	Song by Sister Annie Poulton “We’re
growing Old;” Comic Song by Brother
James H. Poulton, entitled “When the
gentle breezes blow.” Song “Alice Where
art Thou,” by the Misses Poulton. Song by
Mabel Poulton, “You’ll remember me.’,
	The Bishop in his closing remarks thank-
ed his counselors and Relief Society, Mutual,
Primary Officers, young ladies all who had
so ably assisted in this entertainment to
make it such a grand success. Felt proud
of the brethren and si[-]ters of the Sixth
Ward. Thanked his Heavenly Father for
all His blessings bestowed on him. Of him-
self he could have done but little.
	In looking at the Photo presented to him
his heart was too full for many words, he
did thank the Relief Society and all who
aided in this. He would not feel satisfied
until a similar photo of our late and honored
Bishop Hickenlooper was also placed in
this Hall. Invoked the blessing of the Lord
on all the interests of Zion.
	Benediction was then pronounced by
Elder Hugh C. Watson.
						E. W. C.


