SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The first conference of the Relief Soci-
ety of the new Salt Lake Stake of Zion
was held in the 14th ward meeting-house
Sat. Sept. 24, 1904, the morning session
commencing at 10:30 a m., the afternoon
session at 2: p. m., Pres. Clarissa S. Will-
iams presiding.
	There was a large attendance at each 
session and a most interesting program was
carried out. Pres. Bathsbeba W. Smith,
Sec. Emmeline B. Wells, Sisters Alice
Merrill Horne, of the General Board of
Relief Society, Pres. Edward T. Ashton,
Sister Clara C. Cannon and other distin-
guished visitors were present.
	Reports were made by the several ward
Presidents of the Stake who reported all the
branches as being in excellent condition.
All were working harmoniously and united-
ly in their efforts in looking after and re-
lieving the poor, needy and the sick.
	Pres. Edward T. Ashton spoke most en-
couragingly of the work being done by the
Sisters of the Relief Society. He thought
they were doing a most noble work and
would surely be blessed in their labors.
Asked God’s blessing upon all.
	Pres. Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of the
organization of the first Relief Society by
the Prophet Joseph Smith with but 18
members, she being the only surviving
one of that number—this being the
Relief Society that was organized in Nau-
voo. Said it is a great thing to receive the
blessing of a poor, honest person to whom
we have done some little kindness. The
Lord will bless us in all we do for those less
fortunate than we are, and we will receive
ten fold for all we give to those who are in
need and for helping the sick.
	Sec. Emmeline B. Wells spoke of the
great work the Relief Society is accom-
plishing all over the world. She asked the
Sisters not to think that they are being
overworked. We may all feel like we have
enough to do already, but we should res-
pond to any call made of us by the Priest-
hood. She closed by repeating the quota-
tion, “The sun never sets on the Relief
Society.”

[Column 2]
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne told of some
of her experiences while abroad recently at
tending the International Congress of Wo-
men held in Berlin. There were 25 different
councils met there and were made up of in-
telligent women. She found the women
anxious to learn of Utah and her people.
	Pres. Clarissa S. Williams made a verbal
report of the work in general that had been
accomplished since our organization. She
said a conference would be held in each
ward of our Stake one Sunday evening of
each year for the purpose of presenting the
work that is being done by the Sisters of
the Relief Society to the people of the dif-
ferent wards that the purpose of the work
may be better known. Asked that these
conferences be the best meetings of the
year. Dates would be arranged so as to
give the Stake officers an opportunity to
visit each conference. The Bishopric
would be consulted as to which dates would
be best.
	Sisters Mary Katz, Annie Brown and
daughter and little Annie Walsh favored all
present with beautiful singing.
	One pleasant feature of the conference
was had at the close of the morning session
when all participated in a luncheon which
was served by a committee chosen from all
the ward branches of the Relief Society.
	Another pleasing feature was the organi-
zation of a Stake Relief Society choir with
Sisters Emily Lewis as chorister, and Lelia
Timpson as organist.
	Pres. Williams stated that we would hold
but two conferences each year the dates not
yet being definitely decided upon.
	MARTHA P. SMITH, Stake Secretary.

