AN INTERESTING LETTER.
	NORTHAMPTON, MASS.,
					July 12, 1904,
Dear Sister Wells:
	Being in your native state, my thoughts
turn to you and to my friends who left this
beautiful place to assist in building up the
barren country to which the Lord directed
His people
	Acording to your wish, I will give you
a brief account of our travels. My daugh-
ter and myself left our home June 1 to
visit Canada, being invited by my nephew,

[Column 2]
John W. Wolf, to accompany himself and
wife to their home in Cardston on their re-
turn from the June conference.
	After a very pleasant trip of two days we
arrived in Sterling June 14, where we
were met at the depot by Brother Brandley.
After partaking of his kind hospitality over
night, we proceeded on to Cardston, where
we were welcomed by relatives and friends.
We improved the time for two weeks vis-
ting and looking at the country, which,
at this time of the year, presents a very
beautiful appearance, the weather being as
pleasant as we could desire. The people
were busily engaged preparing for “Do-
minion Day,” which is the 1st of July.
	As we had our trip arranged for the
Eastern States, we did not participate in
the celebration. Starting on our tour June
27th, we took the Great Northern train
and sped along through northern Montana,
Dakota and Minnesota without changing
cars or stopping off until we reached St.
Paul, viewing as we passed the large
ranches of Montana, on which were com-
paratively small houses, which were
changed for the immense grain fields with
beautiful large houses, those which appear-
ed to us as ideal farm homes. The coun-
try looked like one great, green field as far
as the eye could see, now and then passing
a village or city.
	At St. Paul we changed cars en route for
Chicago. The country now presents a dif-
ferent appearance as we come to the beautiful
dells and lakes of the Wisconsin, which de-
lighted the eye for hours.
	We arrived at Chicago Thursday even-
ing, June 30th, where we were met by
Brother Ellsworth, who is laboring in the
missionary field. Friday and Saturday we
were engaged taking in some of the sights
of Chicago, visiting the University grounds,
where we met friends from home; also
visited some of the large buildings, parks,
etc , and enjoyed a delightful ride on Lake
Michigan. Sunday we attended meetings,
where we were kindly greeted by Elders
and Saints, we also attended a street meet-
ing, where we listened to Elders and sisters
proclaim the plan of life and salvation to
the people as they passed by. Now and
then one would stop and listen for a while,
then go on, and others would stop and lis-
ten until the meeting closed; occasionally
there would be a disturbance by some one
calling out in disrespectful terms, but the
Elders went on unheeding, so that those
who did desire might hear the truth.
	Being invited by President Asahel
Woodruff, we remained in Chicago to
spend the 4th of July, which was Monday.
We accompanied himself and family to
Washington Park, where Elders, Saints
and students arranged to celebrate. The
day was an ideal one. The beginning of
the programme seemed to be handshaking
and introducing one to another, as many
of the party were from different parts of
Zion, who were delghted to meet a friend
so far from home, while others were just
as pleased to meet a brother or a sister in
the Gospel, which is especially appreciated
in the world, where there are few in num-
ber.

[Column 3]
	About 1 o’clock cloths were spread upon
the green grass, and all partook of a boun-
teous lunch prepared by the sisters, after
which a meeting was called by Brother
Ellsworth, Marshal of the day, which con-
sisted of speeches, recitations and songs
suitable to the occasion, followed by sports
of different kinds, racing, games, boat rid-
ing, etc. After enjoying a very pleasant
day we bade the party good-by and took
the train en route for Massachusetts and
Maine, stopping, however, to view the
beautiful scenery of Niagara. Continuing
our travels we arrived at Boston, where we
remained but one day. We visited Bunker
Hill monument, Harvard University
grounds, and called on the Elders who
were laboring there, as well as all other
Elders we visited, they were feeling well
and enjoying the spirit of their calling.
Meeting with the Elders was among the
most enjoyable events of our trip, as we
felt we had met a friend and a brother.
	The evening of the 7th we took the
steamship for Portland, Maine, President
Martin, who had charge of this part of the
mission, accompanying us.
	We landed at Portland about 8 o’clock
in the morning, where we were kindly
received by (my husband’s) relatives. We
called on a sister of Grandma Foss, as she
was formerly known, who was also a sister
of Aunt Phoebe Woodruff, our late Presi-
dent Woodruff’s departed wife, Mrs. Shuah
Moulton, who has attained the age of nine-
ty-three years. She was in good health
and spirits for one of her age; was pleased
to hear of her sisters’ families who left
their homes here so many years ago. We
were indeed pleased to see her; she re-
membered all of her departed sisters; in-
quired about their famiies, calling them by
name. She has a family of useful children
around her—a son who is a leading lawyer
in Portland, and two daughters, one being
a school teacher. She told us how she had
striven to educate them and keep them
around her, as she was left a widow when
they were young. She seemed interested
in the current topics of the day, on which
she conversed. Also the signs of the times
as referred to in the scripture. which
seemed to her were pointing to the last
days.
	Our time being limited we did not stay
long, as we had an appointment to meet
Miss Foss, my husband’s cousin, who was
going to show us around Scarborough and
Soco, from which places my husband’s
mother and grandmother came We started
on our ride about 11 o’clock and continued
until 6 o’clock. The scenery of the coun-
try was a change for us. being hills and
hollows, with large tracts of woods, with
here and there a farm house and a patch of
green grass around it, which was the farm,
with generally an orchard. The grass,
however, was tall and thick, vegetation
being very luxuriant everywhere. Among
the woods are beautiful ferns and flowers.
	We visited the home of Gradma Foss a[-]d
Aunt Phoebe Woodruff, also the birthplace
and childhood home of my husband’s
mother. The houses are in good condition,
one of them being over a hundred years


[Column 1]
old, and looks as fresh as though it had
just been completed. A striking feature
of these homes is their freshness, being
painted often to preserve them, as they are
made of wood. Most of them are painted
white, and look very pretty among the
green trees. We also visited the family
cemetery. After visiting the beautiful
places here we were driven to “Prout’s
Neck,” a beautiful resort within a stone's
throw of the ocean, owned by Ira Foss and
his two sisters, my husband's cousins. 
There were about one hundred guests at
the resort, which is commodious enough to 
accommodate two hundred, the grounds
with the woods near by are very beautiful.
For the first time in my life I gathered 
shells on the sea shore and heard the waves
dash against the rocks. In the evening
the family gathered in their parlors, where
the time was pleasantly spent in relating
incidents of progenitors who lived about
here so many years ago. Next morning
we bade goodby to friends, and to one of
the most beautiful places it has been my
pleasure to visit, and retnrned to Boston. 
	We visited while in Portland the birth-
place of Henry W. Longfellow, and an-
other home he once occupied. The next
day being Sunday we remained in Boston
to attend the Latter-day Saints' meeting,
after which we went on to Northampton,
where we arrived a short time before dark.
The names of the places now began to be-
come familiar to me, as I had heard my
mother speak of them so often, but not so
with the country for I had not imagined
anything so beautiful. We walked leisure-
ly along enjoying the appearance of the
streets and houses as we passed. The side-
walks and streets were almost covered
with grass which continued on to the doors,
and with so many large trees the places
looked like a continuous garden. It surely
is the prettiest, cleanest little city I have
ever visited. The principal manufacturing
is that of silk thread. We walked around
the grounds of the Smith College for girls
where we were told that five thousand
girls attended school.
	We continued our walk until dark when
we took rooms for the night. After getting
located, we went out again to get the air,
the evening being very warm. Thinking
we were near my cousin's home we inquired
where Charles Gloyd lived, the gentleman
answered, "This is the place, come in."
They were expecting us having already
met one train. We went in, but did not
intend to stay to stay this time as it was
getting late, but said we would call in the
morning. He said he felt he had something
to say about that and requested that we re-
main at his home while in the city and as
long as we could, and this being the feel-
ing of his wife we were pleased to remain,
as we wished to spend all the time we
could with our people, which was the ob-
ject of our visit. We did not retire until
late, we were so interested in talking of
loved ones. My cousin remembered my
mother well, especially the morning she aad
her cousin left their home to take the long
journey with ox teams to the Rocky moun-
tains. He thought they must have had
great courage to undertake such a journey.
I told him they exhibited this same cour-
ageous spirit throughout their lives, that
nothing would have induced them to give
up their pioneer life and leave the great
work which would gain for them an exalta-
tion in the world to come. They had heard
but little of the Gospel for which my moth-

[Column 2]

er had left her home, and made some in-
quiries, especially becoming interested in
the Redemption for the Dead. We re-
mained at their home until the following
afternoon when we started for Cumming-
ton, the birthplace and early home of my
mother, my cousin accompanying us. We
took the street car to Williamsburg, a dis-
tance of ten miles, here we procured a team
as we had about fifteen more miles to travel,
passing over a beautiful country, the road
winding around hills which were covered
with dense forests of maple, oak, elm, cher-
ry and different kinds of nuts. Along the
roadside which followed the Westfield
river were many beautiful ferns and shrub-
bery of different kinds, the sumach especi-
ally being noticable with its beautiful red
berries. Occasionally we would see beauti-
ful flowers, the laurel, tiger lily, roses,
daisies, etc., as well as a variety of herbs.
I thought it no wonder our grandparents so
well understood the use of them as medi-
cines.
	On entering Cummington we saw the
Bryant Library, which had been presented
to the town by William Cullen Bryant. In
the evening we met my cousin's son and
daughter and son’s wife who were spending
a few days in Cummington, which is a cool,
delightful place in summer. Early in the
morning we started out to look around at
the places of interest. Visited a paper [-]ill,
called on some friends who were neighbors
to my mother, whose names were as fami-
liar to me as the names of my own personal
friends, and they seemed very pleased to
see us, asking that we remain with them
longer. After being entertained for several
hours by two of my cousin's nieces we went
driving around the William Cullen Bryant
[-]ummer home. It was here, we were told,
he wrote "Thanatopsis." The home is
now occupied by his daughter. It is situ-
ated on a hill with other hills surrounding
it, covered with woods, a large orchard is
near by and a grassy plot surrounds the
house. A little further on we came to the
place where my mother was born lived
for many years. This is also on a hill
and other hills surrounding it are covered
with maple trees that my grandfather
owned, behind it rises Deer Hill. A
group of houses are at the foot of the hill,
where a stream of water runs on where my
grandfather's woolen mills once stood. The
home has been abandoned for years, as one
could tell by its appearance. It has recent-
ly been purchased by parties who are going
to repair it. The lady invited us in to look
at the house, being pleased that we were
so much interested in it, and thought she
would now like the home better herself.
Having brought our lunch, we ate it under
a large maple tree in the front yard and
for desert we gathered wild raspberries
near by. We drank from the spring which
furnished water for our kindred people,
and plucked roses to press and preserve
that grew near the door, and which were
planted by them, while a short time
before we had gathered flowers from their 
graves. We walked through the tall grass
to look at the old mill wheel, the only re-
mains of Grandfather Gloyd's woolen mills 
in which my mother worked to secure
means which enabled her to gather with
the people who had the Gospel that was so
dear to her. After looking around we came 
to the conclusion that there had once been
a comfortable and prosperous home, and
were told that times were lively enough

[Column 3]

when our grandfather was there carrying
on his business.
	I now realize more keenly than ever be-
fore the sacrifice our parents made in leav-
ing their homes for the Gospel sake. With
a prayer in my heart to my Heavenly
Father that my mother had been inspired
of Him to receive the Gospel and gather
with His people whereby she could be the
means of redeeming her father's household,
and also with feelings of gratitude in my
heart for the privilege of realizing this
much desired visit, we rode away and the
day closed on one of the most interesting
and enjoyable times of my life. 
