SOME OF THE LEADING WOMEN I HAVE
				MET.
	M'lle Monont who has been at the head of
Women's Congresses; is of one of the oldest
families of good French stock. She is the
supporter and at the head of the largest
Deaconesses' home in the world. She is
Christian and philanthropic. She presided
at the women's conference at Versailles a
year ago in May. This conference was
held on a pleasant estate loaned for the pur-
pose. There were over a thousand women
present by invitation, representing the
leading women of Paris, who are philan-
thropic without being essentially Christian.
All subjects pertaining to women and the
advancement of social life in Paris and
other portions of continental Europe were
brought forward in most enthusiastic papers.
There were delegates from many countries,
who, by the way, were on their way to the
W. C. T. U. World's International Confer-
ence, which was meeting at Geneva, Swit-
zerland. Of course, the papers and all
were given in the French tongue. It was
an all-day session, most inspiring, most en-
thusiastic. I was pleased with one of the
women editors of a leading Parisian journal.
She was particularly of the Latin type.
Her magnetism was very striking. A look,
a gesture, meant as much as a word. Her
subject matter was that of crying down ob-
scene pictures in the streets of Paris and
putting forth pure literature to the young
as well as the old of France. M'lle Monont
presided with dignity and grace and rare
tact, which she always shows.
I would like to tell you of Mrs. Eliza
Arbo, widow of the famous historical and
mythological painter of Christiania, Nor-
way. She has one of the finest private
salons outside of Paris. Her home was
designed by her late husband, and her
studio is a rare art gallery, filled with the
paintings of her late famous husband and
also some of her own. They both studied
and worked together in Paris. Mrs. Arbo
is living in retirement, in a measure, now
in the old capital city, Christiania, giving
her time to philanthropic interests, woman's
work, her art and the education of her two
delightful daughters, but all in a quiet gen-
teel way. She is a woman of rare gifts. A
linguist. Her nationality is English and
Norwegian, so that she has the characteris-
tics of each nation, and considerable that
has been acquired from the French, from
her long residence with them.

[Column 2]
	The picture Valkyrie, the god Thor rush-
ing through the air with his servants and
his attendants and going to Valhalla, where
they rest from their labors for a while, ac-
cording to the mythological story, is one of
the most beautiful creations that her hus-
band could have made. This picture hangs
in the National Gallery in Christiania, and
there is also a copy of it in her own home.
	I spent many pleasant days with her and
through her I was introduced to many
prominent people.
	I might say that the women of Christiania
and other portions of Norway, whom I had
the privilege of meeting, are proud to call
themselves "the Americans of the North."
That is because they are watching for wo-
man's progress and all that attains to her
development and uplifting conditions, and
so they look to us for these points in which
we have progressed.
	Movements are on foot for the social life
of woman, and, I might say, the true eman-
cipation of woman, in Norway.
	We can scarcely realize the thraldom of
her women, but they have taken the question
in hand and are presenting to their govern-
ment amendments whereby woman shall
have her freedom in more lines than I could
mention in this little interview: freedom
which is needed in lines of purity and
emancipation.
	In Sweden the Frederika-Bremer Club
has done an immense good. From it go
out nearly all the philanthropic lines of
Stockholm. I met some of their leaders
and I was entertained by several ladies in
the city who are interested in similar work
as that being started in Christiania. The
lines are drawn somewhat closer to women
in Sweden than in Norway, but they, on
the other hand, are also waking up and
have petitioned Parliament, through a long
line of signatures, to give them also the
needed freedom for woman.
	There are many noble workers in Stock-
holm among women, and I was particular-
ly interested in what I called the titled, or
noble-women. Suffice it to say, that the
titled people walk in Stockholm, and the
people who have come up from the lower
ranks and acquired money quickly, or who
have been to America and brought back
money, they ride in their carriages, but
many people of title and noble rank are
living simply, dressing simply, but pro-
gressing, and are even found in commercial
interests. We must not forget that it is an
old, a very old aristocratic kingdom and
that Norway has drawn away from all others
and has become a Republic. Therefore,
the society of the two is quite different.
	We may say, as to women of the world
that, as Lowell says, "God sends His teach-
ers into every age, to every land and every
tongue, nor gives the realm of truth unto the
selfish rule of one sole race." So God has
raised up one noble leader in every land, or
more. He has given Christiania, or you
might say Norway, its Camilla Collette;
Sweden its Frederika-Bremer; Germany
its Angel Queen, Louise; England its Flor-
ence Nightingale and Catherine Booth; and
America its Clara Barton and Frances Wil-
lard.


