EDITORIAL NOTES.
	If the good sisters, and our patrons, and
friends of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT will
have patience, and forbearance of our short-
comings, they shall very soon have the
October number, containing the minutes of
the Relief Society Conference and other in-
teresting articles.
	Stakes visited by officers of the Relief
Society, members of Board and others dur-
ing the month of September are Sisters
Mary A. C. Lambert and Hattie B. Harker
Bear Lake, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde
and Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson St. George
and Parowan. Sisters Priscilla Smith and
Clara L. Clawson Panguitch, also expected
to visit Kanab but did not get time. It is
expected San Juan, Star Valley, St John’s,
Snowflake, St. Joseph, Maricopa and Juarez
will be visited during the year, this will
complete the entire list of Conferences.


[Column 1]
	VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.
	Sisters Ann C Woodbury and Emma
Morris, of the St. George presidency of the
Relief Society, and Mary G. Whitehead,
of the Primary, with Brother Samuel Miles
as driver, left St. George, Thursday, the
28th of July, and stopped overnight at
Chadburns. 29th, went on to Pine Valley,
held meeting at 2 p.m. with the Relief
Society, were very pleased to have the
Bishop and a number of the brethren meet
with us. At 4 p.m. we met with the Pri-
mary, a good spirit prevailed. The bishop
blessed us with his presence, which was
very encouraging. We had a good rain
that night, which was very gratifying, also
a boon to the country, as the crops needed
it badly. Went on to Pinto and met with
the Primary at 10 a.m. next day. It was
refreshing to meet with the bright children,
who paid good attention. We took dinner
with the Relief Society president, Sophia
H. Forsyth, after which we had a meeting
of the Society, and then went to Enterprise.
President Lydia Winsor entertained us for
the night. Sunday morning we met with
the Sabbath school, then we held a Primary
meeting. We took dinner with Sister Bar-
locher.
	In the afternoon, after the sacrament
was administered, the Bishop turned the
meeting over to the sisters, and we had an
enjoyable time. Bishop gave us much en-
couragent. Afterwards went on to Thomas
Terry’s ranch, where we were kindly en-
tertained. August 1st we traveled on to
Clover, there we met Brother Lyman Woods
and family, they are all that live there. We
held a meeting, with twenty-one present,
counting the children, and had an enjoy-
able time. Brother and Sister Woods are
in poor health, their farm is almost de-
stroyed through the railroad draining their
meadow land; but we rejoiced to meet with
a people that were thirsting for righteous-
ness. We spent the night there. The fol-
lowing day traveled twenty-five miles to
Panacca. President Sarah Lee gave us a
hearty welcome; and held a meeting at 10
a.m. next day with Primary. We were
invited to Brother John Lee’s to dinner,
and had a nice time with the sisters. In
the afternoon we met with the Relief Soci-
ety and had a lovely lot of sisters present.
President Lee invited all the sisters to meet
at her house at 7 o’elock p.m.. and had a
nice sociable time—ice cream and cake,
with a select program.
	On the 4th we traveled to Bristol Wells,
thirty-five miles; had to draw water from a
well for the horses; we laid our quilts on the
ground under a tree and had a good night’s
rest. In the morning we found a rattle-
snake under our carriage; it did not hurt
us, so we let it go. On the following day
drove to the Lewis ranch, where we slept
and rested well. Next d[-]y went to Lund,
and met there Brother Adolphus White-
head, Sister Mary Whitehead’s son, and
his wife, who is Sister Morris’ daughter,
and I was welcomed at the home of my
nephew, Brother George Gardner.
	On the 7th of August we met with the
Sabbath school and bore our testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, as it was fast
day. In the afternoon, after sacrament,
Bishop Orin Snow turned the meeting
over to the sisters, and we had a good time
and excellent spirit.
	On the 8th we went to Preston held
meeting at 10 a.m. with the Relief Society,
and at 2 p.m. with the Primary; were en-
tertained at Bishop Arnoldson’s. The peo-
ple all came out to our meetings; we feel
it is a pleasure to meet with the Saints of
God. Returned to Lund that night; the
9th we met at Eva Whitehead’s with the
prominent sisters, talked on the duties of
the officers of the Relief Society in regard
to storing grain and creating a fund for the
benefit of the poor in Zion.
	Aug. 10, started home 13th reached E[-]gle
Valley, held an evening meeting, had a
good turnout; there isn’t many here that
care anything for the Gospel. We reached
Modena on the 14th, rested our horses and
traveled about fifteen miles, and camped
for the night; next morning drove to Holt’s,
for breakfast.
	We arrived home all right, having trav-
eled between four and five hundred miles,
gone eighteen days, held thirteen meetings,
and trust we have done some good in urg-
ing the people to their duties. Ever pray-
ing for the welfare of Zion, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel.
