MRS. JANE McCUNE GARDNER CLOSES A WELL
				SPENT LIFE.
	Mrs. Jane McCune Gardner, a pioneer of 1847
died in Murray June 21st, 1904, at the home of her
daughter, Mrs. Margaret Miller, of acute old age.
	The deceased was a native of Canada, where
she was born July 24, 1823. She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1844, and
emigrated to Utah in 1847, arriving in Salt Lake
valley in October of that year, a few months after
the Pioneers, being a member of Bishop Hunter’s
company. 
	She lived with her husband Robert Gardner in
this valley up to 1862, when she was called to
settle in St. George, Washington Co., and later
moved to Pine Valley, where she has resided ever
since, Sister Gardner joined the Relief Society in
Pine Valley at the organization April 1st, 1874, at-
tended and did her part faithfully as a member
and as a worker, and was elected Second Counse-
lor to Sister D. M. Slade, Feb. 16th, 1886, which
[-]ffice she filled satisfactorily to the sisters and with
[-]onor to herself.


Sept. 16th, 1894, she was honorably released as
she went to Murray, Salt Lake City, to stay with
her daughters, and sent her resignation to the sis-
ters of the Relief Society, but in the spring she 
returned to Pine Valley though she often come to
stay with her daughters in Murray as Pine Valley
is very cold in winter and trying to old people,
but would return in the spring, as she was warmly
attached to home where her aged husband still re-
mains.
	Her heart was with the work of Relief Society,
and she did all she could with her poor health
when she was with us here.
	There were present at her bedside when she
passed away Mrs. Mary Jane Miller and Mrs.
Margaret Miller of Murray, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Helm of Mill creek, and a number of grand-chil-
ren among them Bishop U. G. Miller of Murray.
	Mrs. Gardner was the mother of 12 children, 9
of whom survive her, she leaves 71 grand-children,
30 great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grand
child, the latter being Riva the one year-old
daughter of Walter Cluff of Provo. William Gard-
ner who spent some years in New Zealand as a
missionary, and James Gardner counselor to Bish-
op C. C. Christensen of Kanosh, are her sons;
Reuben G. Miller, President of the Emery Stake
and Bishop U. G Miller of Murray are her grand-
sons, and she has left many relatives and friends
to mourn her departure, she was a very faithful
Latter-day Saint and a faithful wife and mother.
