	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1904


[Column 1]
	THE NEW CIVILIZATION.
	The world during the last century more
especially has enlarged its activities in a
wonderful degree and in many ways. An
impetus has been given to labor-saving to
a very great extent. Many of the things
formerly made by hand requiring time and
strength are now performed quicker and
even better by machinery. Although there
are still some people very slow to accept
new methods, and persist in doing as their
forefathers did in “the good old times” so
often quoted. One strange feature about
all these great improvements is that there
seems to be no more leisure, one sometimes
thinks not even as much for women, as our
foremothers had. As Sister Eliza R. Snow
would say, “This is the conundrum.”
	We women used to do many things that
are done for us now ever so much better,
and we cannot help wondering how it was
accomplished at all when there was so much
to be done. For instance, women made
their own soap, candles, molasses, and did
all, or nearly all, their own cooking, wash-
ing, ironing and sewing all by hand, and
many women carded the wool, spun
the rolls, and colored the yarn, knit all the
stockings, wove cloth for family wear, and
carpets for the floor, and we know of in-
stances where women took the wool from
the sheep. These pioneer women too,
actually worked over fire places with bake-
kettles and skillets, and used the old
fashioned cranes and pot hooks to hang the
kettles on for boiling purposes. Some of
our young people nowadays have never
seen a crane, and are surprised to hear of
such a thing. Have they studied Long-
fellow? Yes undoubtedly, and read “The
Hanging of the Crane,” which “long ago”
was celebrated with much ceremony when
a new house was built. There was a sort of
jollification at such times,
		“A fortunate, a happy day.”

	‘‘So said the guests in speech and song
	As in the chimney burning bright
	We hung the iron crane tonight,
	And merry was the feast and song.”
	Those simple, primitive village affairs
were very different to the "swell” entertain-
ments of our modern life. Apple-parings,
husking-bees, quilting parties and spelling
bees, were part and parcel of early life in
pioneer days. Neighbors were more soci-
able and if sometimes one spoke to a new
neighbor without an introduction, it was
not thought “ill-bred.”
	We women certainly rejoice in all the im-

[Column 2]
provements in the way of living, and house-
keeping especially, but the mystery still re-
mains when we complain of lack of time
to do the few things left to do by hand
How did our grandmothers and great-
grandmothers do all these things they tell
us of, and most of them raised large fami-
lies besides?
	They did not read as many books per-
haps, there were not so many newspapers
either, but they read the Bible even more
religiously, than is done by most women in
this age, and they kept the Sabbath day
more sacredly. It is often said they did not
have so many frills and furbelows, how-
ever that is not quite true, when one recalls
the fine stitching and hemming and the em-
broidering of fine linen, lace and muslin;
and the elaborate ruffled shirt fronts worn
by men, and the lace caps that all married
women only in the thirties wore in the last
century, why it gives one a pain to think
it over. We really have improved in dress-
ing, although some fashions are elaborate,
and as for corsets and tight-lacing, this
generation is far better than fifty years ago.
They used to write long letters in the
earlier times, now we send telegrams and
telephone messages, and if we must write
a letter it must be done on the typewriter
(to save time), and all the individuality is
taken out of it; it’s machine work only, and
lacks the touch of fine tone that letter-
writing once brought with it.
We really have too much formality
sometimes, do not come as much in touch
with each other in our daily lives as we
should do. If it were possible to show our-
selves interested in each other’s welfare,
and say a few kind things in passing along,
and not rush all the time with lightning
speed, perhaps we would be as well off in
the end, and make more friends and do a
little good to those, whose lives are heavy-
burdened. We used to visit, really visit,
socially and get acquainted in a nearer view
with our relatives and neighbors, now we
cannot get time even to make brief calls,
but there is so much business to be done,
and traveling to and fro, these are some of
the things we women do more of than our
predecessors. We are trying to make the
world better, more enlightened, so some of
us think, with new laws, new methods,
new plans of work, and we are reaching
out to a larger number of people, and talk
to them about pure food, and hygiene and
sanitation, and good roads and art in their
homes, and music of the fiuest quality, and
we grade our schools and colleges, and do
everything with technique, and run to ex-
tremes instead of maintaining an equal bal-
ance, until sometimes it seems that old-
fashioned ways would be preferable, be-
cause we overdo so many things, and have
not time to be considerate of other people
in a social way, or hospitable and kindly;
and we pass over the graceful, gracious,
homely, generous ways, and let our nearest
duties go undone, trying to reach such high
ambitions, that we almost l[]e our own self-
respect and condemn our own conduct.
	The world, however, must be taken as
this generation has made it, with its marvel-
ous growth in intellectuality in art and
science and mechanical processes and rapid
traveling by steam and electricity, and such
knowledge as comes of this great wave
of artificial forces, and do the best we can,
not to be puffed up with pride, because of
our great discoveries of things hitherto un-
known.
	The Latter-day Saints surely who under-

[Column 3]stand the truths of the Gospel, should be
careful to avoid making the mistakes that
seem prevalent in the world and keep that
spirit which leads into all truth, that they
may be kept from the evils of the world
that they may enjoy the advantages of
what is termed in common parlance the
new civilization of the age in which we
are living.


