D. R. MAY MEETING
	The Utah State Society Daughters of the
Revolution met on Monday, May 16, 1904,
at the home of the secretary Mrs. Lucy
Woodruff Smith,, the Regent, Mrs. Isabel
M. W. Sears presiding. The parlors were
handsomely decorated with flags of various
nations, which made the occasion very im-
pressive, the stars and stripes were most
conspicuously placed, and there were many
countries effectively represented by these
beautiful emblems.
	After prayer by the Chaplain, and the
usual business routine, the Regent, Mrs.
Sears, stated that the report had been for-
warded to the General Society, and she had
received a letter from Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, the Delegate from the Utah D. R. to
the Annual Convention of the General So-
ciety in New York City, stating that she
had been present at the meetings and had
read the report which was favorably re-
ceived and that she received considerable ap-
plause, also that in behalf of the Utah D.
R. she had given ten dollars towards the
purse of money presented to the President
General, Miss Adaline W. Sterling, by the
several states represented in the General
Society. The action of Mrs. Horne in giv-
ing the money met with unanimous ap-
proval of the members.
	A circular letter was then read from the
General Society stating that a plan was be-
ing formulated for the placing of some mark
or monument at Yorktown.
	The Regent stated she had informed the
chairman of said committee that Utah D.
R. would give its proportion to this particu-
lar purpose.
	It was moved and carried that the Regent
be sustained in the matter.
	The business being finished the program
was then given. An interesting sketch of the
life of Nathan Hale was given by the
Regent, Mrs. Sears, for Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, who had beea unable to pre-
pare her topic on account of serious illness in
her family. Mrs. Farnsworth read with
much feeling a poem written for Nathan
Hale, and Miss Catherine Wells concluded
the subject with a very fine sketch of Mr.
Hale’s courtship and the woman he loved.
	Meeting then adjourned until the annual
meeting, June 10, 1904. There were pres-
ent beside the members, as guests, Mes-
dames Charlotte F. Richards, Lucy Smtth
Acomb, and Rebecca E. Nibley. Dainty
refreshments were served and social con-
versation indulged in, relating more particu-
larly to the different flags, etc., Mrs. Smith
had collected while abroad.
							E. B. W.


