the general board and four workers from the Welfare Department. So intent upon being able to properly care for the members in trouble are churchmen becoming, that many ministers are themselves training for social work; and the Catholic church gives regular social work courses as part of its preparation for the ministry. There is no longer any question with them about the need of skill in dealing with the man who falls wounded and bleeding on the way to Jericho. Answering the question, "What, in your opinion, was the biggest message of the conference?" our delegates, replied almost as variously as the members to whom the query was put. "The movement toward trained workers in rural communities," one answered. "At least one social worker in every county, and that one with power to direct to whom and for what purpose all the material relief in the county should be given; with cooperative church work and court decisions, with understanding health officers and school men—'tis a condition devoutly to be wished!" "The forward-looking program of international relations,"' replied another, "The thought that we must have relations with other countries whether they be good or bad, should lead us to seek a better understanding of conditions in other lands." "The adaptation of the schools to the needs of every child was the big theme," declared a young woman not engaged in teaching. "Classes for the problem child, schools adapted to the underprivileged—how many family burdens will be lifted when such a scheme of education is made general!" "Increasing community responsibility. Making our democracy feel that taking care of human problems is their job. Getting everyone, through better publicity methods, to understand our work, and understanding it to want to help to lift the load. That was the big theme of the conference to me," reported a third. And so we might continue. No wonder. The delegates were each day scattered among the various sections according to a prearranged plan in o