Great Salt Lake By Glen Perrins The Great Salt Lake at twilight—how silently majestic! How huge and magnificent. This vast body of salt water, stretching along the western base of the Wasatch is a most beautiful sight, indeed. As one comes across it from the West, on the train, after a visit to the coast, it is. Hailed with delight. The waves splash a ripple of SAN FRANCISCO OVERLAND LIMITED CROSSING GREAT SALT LAKE CUT-OFF welcome against the piers as the train moves slowly over the trestle work. An hour passes from Lakeside to Promontory Point—a beautiful sixty minutes in the golden sunset over the lake. Then another hour is spent going over the deeper part of the Great Salt Lake. The islands in the lake stand out in bold relief, casting their lengthy shadows over the billowing water. Large flocks of seagulls are seen in the twilight, riding the waves, skimming the waters and splashing over the surface. One wonders how the story of the Great Salt Lake impressed the Franciscan friar, Escalante, in 1776, when the Indians described it to him in their quaint fashion, and later, in 1843, when Fremont 
 described this beautiful body of water. Or before them both, in that long, long ago when the lake was Bonneville, a thousand feet deep. At that time, it is reported, from the north end to the south end was as far as one end of Illinois is from the other—the lake was then 346 miles long, 145 miles wide. Quite a contrast with the lake today—seventy-five miles long, thirty-one miles wide and, in the deepest places 30 feet deep. And this water is the saltiest sea on earth except the Dead Sea. In every five pounds of water is one pound of salt. Today, the lake bed of Lake Bonneville, which was nine hundred feet under water where Salt Lake is today, is dry—made ready for the Saints. Wionderful is the way of God. How inspiring is the Great Salt Lake today! How silently majestic! Fall By Merling Dennis Clyde They can rave about the springtime, And summer's joyous thrall, But the days that pull the heartstrings Are the languorous ones of fall. There's a haze upon the valley Purple-deep against the hills, While the sun-kissed air is whispering 'With a vibrant power that thrills. In the lazy, lingering stillness Hangs the earth in peaceful mood; Poised, like a gull suspended, Is the autumn quietude. It is a time of waiting, Yet beneath the hush a spell Weaves enchanting paths that beckon Where-away it doés not tell; But it sets my feet to straying In answer to the call Of a wooing voice that lures me Through the painted days of fall. Lindbergh By Mary C. Martineau Do we know if the eyes of the Gods are blue? O, we know Gods are strong and clean and true, And their eyes look ahead, all earthly mists through, As they go on their way in glory. Made in the image of God was man And, he, among men showeth proof of the plan And the work so divine by the Master's own hand When he fashioned this boy, Charles Lindbergh. He makes us look up and aspire to fly And wish to be Godlike, not fearing to die, Knowing no fear but of living a lie Or smallness or lack of endeavor. Lo, here he comes winging through space as we gaze, And longs even heaven to conquer always, And he stakes e'en his life for the call he obeys, His call that keeps constantly ringing. Knowing not sleep for the voice that he hears, That ever is urging him onward with cheers, As if through the shadow of earth-life it sears From a place with the Gods he'd forgotten. Holding him tense with a promise he knows, Waking him up every moment he'd doze, Reminding him soon the great goal will disclose His power to win over things human. _ Compelling, as all through his life, as he sails, His body to. Bow that his soul never fails, For spirit and reason divine never quails O'er the long narrow way to contentment. And, O, then the lights of the landing we see, The messengers rising to meet him in glee And he circles the City with you and with me And his joy is our joy at his greeting. A monument to faith and courage THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faitleth  Magazine  Vol. XIV OCTOBER, 1927 No. 10 EDITORIAL