THE LITERATURE COURSE We promised to publish, at as early a date as possible, the price list of the books for the new literature course: "Nowadays" is listed at $1.75; "The Devil's Disciple," at $1.00; '""What Every Woman Knows," at $1.00; "Joseph and His Brethren," at 75c; "The Doll's House," at 80c. "He and She" cannot be obtained separately. It is published in a book of American Plays by Quinn. As a consequence we have decided to substitute for "He and She" Galsworthy's "Justice," which sells at 75c. We are asking the Deseret Book Company to keep these books in stock to accommodate the organizations and individuals that care to purchase them. Whether they are purchased or not is at the option of each ward and stake. We wish to give our members all the help we can, but are anxious that no help offered shall in any sense prove a burden. That is why we emphasize the fact that it is entirely optional whether these books are purchased or not. We shall continue, as in the past, to devote as much space to the literature lesson as the size of the magazine will permit. We would draw the attention of our members to the fact that many of the college libraries located in many of the cities have these books upon their shelves; also that practically all the public libraries carry a good many volumes of modern drama. Recently the president of the Alpine stake sent for our list in order to put the set of books in a collection in the American Fork Library, which has been placed there to the honor of their late president, Mrs. Annie Hindley. Public libraries are always eager to serve the community; and if the officers will present them with lists of books that are to be used extensively in the community, they are eager, as a rule, to receive the list and make the purchase. LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) BIOGRAPHY George Bernard Shaw is the most brilliant of living British playwrights. His public addresses are full of keen and clever statements that can come only from one whose mind scintillates continuously, as does the mind of George Bernard Shaw. He is a satirist, keen and cutting. One of his critics talks about his "razor-like" thrusts. No matter what may be said to him he always has a ready reply. We have heard a good many addresses 
 by eminent people but have never heard one with quite the ready comeback to all questioners as an address delivered to the teachers of London by George Bernard Shaw in 1911. He was born in Dublin on the 26th of July, 1856. His father was a retired civil servant, the younger son of Bernard Shaw, high sheriff of Kilkenny. His mother was Luncinda Elizabeth Gurly Shaw, a good musician who eventually became a teacher of singing in London. George Bernard Shaw attended school in Dublin, and at the age of fifteen began earning his own living. For five years he was a clerk in the office of an Irish land-agent going to London with his family in 1876: In 1879 he was in the offices of the Edison telephone company. At this time he had already started writing novels, but had not yet found a market for them. His first publications appear as serials in a monthly magazine Our Corner. These were The Irrational Knot, written in 1880 and Love Among the Artists, written in 1881. Mr. Shaw joined the Fabian Society in 1884 and became active in socialistic propaganda as a street orator and also a pamphleteer. He began journalism through the influence of William Archer, on the reviewing staff of the Pall Mall Gazette in 1885. In his role of art and musical critic he was a very brilliant reviewer. It is said that he thought some of the dramas he had to review so stupid that he sought to relieve the situation by writing some plays of his own. That he has helped to raise the quality of English drama no one competent to judge will deny. His dialogue is brilliant beyond that of most gifted playwrights. He is a disciple of Ibsen. Some of Mr. Shaw's most important plays are Arms and the Man which was produced in 1894; Candida'written in 1894; The Man of Destiny, a Napoleonic drama written in 1895; You Never Can Tell, written in 1896; The Devil's Disciples, which was produced in New York in 1897 and in London in 1899; Caeser and Cleopatra, written in 1898; Captain Brassbound's Conversion, 1898; The Admirable Bashville, 1903; Man and Superman, published in 1903; The Doctor's Dilemma, in 1906; Androcles and the Lion; Back to Methusalah; and Saint Joan. Man and Superman and Saint Joan are considered his greatest plays. In 1898 he married Charlotte Frances Payne-Townsend, a woman who appears to be able to enter with him into all his work. George Bernard Shaw has always been very much interested in extending to women those rights and privileges which were justly hers. Among the men who worked hard to obtain suffrage for the British women no one was more conspicuous in this than the gifted playwright. His wife made a trip to Boston for the sole purpose of taking part in the suffrage parade with the women of that city. When invited to'ride she refused, stating that she would prefer to march with the women of that city. He lives in the city of London and his rooms are so close to those of Sir James Matthew Barrie, the famous Scotch playwright, that they can talk out of the window to each other. Practically everything he says has news value. 'Papers all over the world will publish any comment with which he will favor them. THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE By George Bernard Shaw The play has its setting in the state of New Hampshire in the year 1777. It opens in the main room of a house where most of the occupants are interested in the fire because the morning is very cold. It is the home of Mrs. Dudgeon. She is a Puritan of the strictest type, one, as Shaw points out, of a bitter temper and fierce pride. She has an unquestioned reputation for piety and respectability, but is generally a very disagreeable woman, so disagreeable that some of her neighbors who do not hold to her strict rules of conduct think she must be exceedingly good because she is so disagreeable. She prides herself on never having missed a Sunday at the Church, but her religion has not developed in her an attitude of sympathy or kindness towards her fellowmen. She perhaps finds herself in the same category as some Christians, of whom Swift spoke when he said they had just enough religion in them to make them hate their neighbors. With her in the room is a girl she calls Essie, who is the illegitimate child of her husband's brother, who had just been hanged at Springtown. Her husband went to see the hanging, then fell sick, and died during the night. Dick Dudgeon, her eldest son, is the first caller of the morning, consequently is the first one to bring an account of the hanging. As the matter has been planned the minister is to break the news to Mrs. Dudgeon of the death of her husband, but her son Richard really does it before the minister arrives. Mrs, Dudgeon is not overly proud of her two sons, as the following passage will disclose. She says: "A nice comfort my children are to me! One son a fool, and the other a lost sinner that has left his home to live with smugglers, gypsies, and villians, the scum of the earth!" Mrs. Dudgeon is very severe in her treatment of: Essie as shown by the entrance of the half-wit into the room a little earlier in the scene when she says: "Why, who are you?" The girl responds shyly, "Essie." To which Mrs. Dudgeon responds: "Oh, you may well ask. Go to your room, child, and lie down since you haven't feeling enough to keep you awake. Your history is notfit for your own ears to hear." The child said: "I" 
 Mrs. Dudgeon: "Do not answer me, miss, but show your obedience by doing what I tell you; and do not forget to say your prayers. She'd have gone to bed last night just as if nothing had happened if I'd have let her." Finally Mr. Anderson, the minister, arrives. Mrs. Dudgeon is one of those women who feel that it is necessary to show a good deal of distress. At the news of her husband's death. That there is much hypocrisy in her sorrow is evinced by the fact that she makes such a fuss over her husband's decision when the will is read. Just before the reading of the will something occurs that discloses the real character of the woman who believes herself to be a very righteous person, as also the real character of her son whom she thinks of as a disciple of the devil. Richard asks: "By the way, did I hear, or did I not, that our late lamented Uncle Peter, though unmarried, was a father?" Uncle Titus: "He had only one irregular child, sir." Richard: "It touches me profoundly, Pastor. By the way, what has become of the irregular child?", Anderson: (pointing to Essie ) "There, sir, listening to you." Richard: (shocked into sincerity.) "What! Why the devil didn't you tell me that before? Children suffer enough in this house without(He hurries remorsefully to Essie.) Come, little cousin! Never mind me: it was not meant to hurt you. (She looks up gratefully at him. Her tear-stained face affects him violently, and he bursts out, in a transport of wrath): "Who has been making her cry? Who has been ill-treating her?" Mrs. Dudgeon: "Silence your blasphemous tongue. I will bear no more of this. Leave my house." Richard: "How do you know it is your house until the will is read?" _ The reading of the will discloses the facts that: "T give and bequeath a hundred pounds to my younger son Christopher Dudgeon. I give and bequeath to my wife Annie Dudgeon an annuity of fifty-two pounds a year for life to be paid out of the interest on her own money." Mrs. Dudgeon: "A very good way to put God's truth. It was every penny my own." "I give and bequeath my house at Websterbridge with the land belonging to it and all the rest of my property to my eldest son and heir, Richard Dudgeon, on conditions that he shall not let my brother Peter's natural child starve or be driven by want to an evil life." We learn later that the British soldiers in their desire to terrorize rebels have made up their mind to execute somebody at Websterbridge, just as they executed Richard's Uncle Peter at Springtown. It has been whispered about that either Richard Dudgeon or the minister, Mr Anderson, is to be sacrificed. Dick has heard that the minister is to be made an example of and the minister has heard that it is Dick Dudgeon. The minister sends for Dick and he arrives just about tea time. Judith, his wife, thinks Dick a very ungodly sort of person, and resents through facial expression her husband's suggestion that Dick stop and have tea, but finally, out of consideration of her husband, she says that she would like to have him remain. Just as they are about to pour the tea, Christy comes with a message that his mother is very ill and wishes the minister to come at once. Mr. Anderson has scarcely left the home when British soldiers appear at the door. They arrest Dick Dudgeon for the minister. He indicates to Judith that she must not betray him and so he places the minister's cloak on his shoulders and accepts the offer of a last minute to say good-bye to Judith. Suddenly it occurs to Mrs. Anderson that Dick has been very much misjudged, that under a rough and crude exterior he really possesses the essence of a Christian character. He tells her hurriedly to have her husband get out of the way, that it will not save his life fdr her husband to give himself up, as they will undoubtedly hang them both. As he leaves the room, he urges her to kiss him so that the officers may be misled. This she does. As she does so, she falls into a swoon. Her husband arrives soon after the officers have departed with Dick. He cannot understand the confused condition in which he finds her and feels for a moment that Dick has in some way insulted her. Finally the truth comes to light, and then she implores her husband to go and give himself up and thus bring about the release of Richard Dudgeon. This he refuses to do, but at once arranges for a fast horse and departs with nearly all the money they have in the house. Mrs. Anderson is as much surprised at what her husband does as she was at what Dick did. She goes to the prison to see Dick and finally gets permission to attend the trial. She is incensed that it should be such a sham. Finally the officers in charge decide that Richard Dudgeon, who they think is Anderson, the minister, shall be hanged at twelve o'clock. Richard tells his prosecutors or persecutors, which ever you please to call them, that if the townspeople had listened to him they would have found the streets barricaded, the houses loopholed, and the people in arms to hold the town. But, said he, "you arrived unfortunately before we got out of the talking stage.' Major Swindon, indignant that Dudgeon should dare to talk to him in this way, replied: "Well, sir, we shall teach you and your townspeople a lesson they will not forget. Have you anything more to say?" Richard: "I think you might have the decency to treat me as a prisoner of war, and shoot me like a man instead of hanging me like a dog." 
 Burgoyne: (sympathetically.) 'Now there, Mr. Anderson, you talk like a civilian, if you will excuse my saying so. Have you any idea of the average marksmanship of the army of His Majesty King George the Third? If we make you up a firing 'party, what will happen? Half of them will miss you: the rest will make a mess of the business and leave you to the provostmarshal's pistol. Whereas we can hang you in a perfectly workmanlike and agreeable way." The time approaches for the execution and Richard stands there with the noose about his neck and his eyes on the clock. In the meantime they have discovered that it is not the minister but Dick Dudgeon that they are about to hang. About a minute before the hanging takes place Anderson arrives at the head of the rebel troop and the town falls into the hands of the Americans. Dick is released, very much to Essie's joy, who cannot keep back the tears. Good-humoredly but wilfully Richard says to her: "Now, now. Come, come! I don't mind being hanged, but I will not be cried over." The Problem of the Play The problem in this play is manifestly an endeavor to discover which is the saint and which the sinner. Mrs. Dudgeon, feeling she has followed all the rules of Puritan conduct, naturally imagines that she is a very righteous person; while Dick, who rebels against the conventions of his day, is very naturally regarded by the people of the community as being decidedly unrighteous. Yet, when put to the test, Dick is willing to give his life for the minister, whose wife feale that it is an abuse for her to drink tea with him. Consequently, he that was least amongst them became the greatest of them all when measured by the true rule of righteous conduct. Questions and Problems 1. What type of woman is Mrs. Dudgeon? 2. Do you think that the Puritan religion had a tendency to produce women of that sort? 3. What do you think of Mrs. Dudgeon's treatment of Essie? 4. What person in the play has a modern attitude towards Essie? 5. Do you call to mind any instances in your experience where convention has a tendency to make a saint out of the sinner and a sinner out of the saint?