[Vol51 | May 1964 | Page 350 | Poem | Renewal | Caroline Eyring Miner]
[Renewal Caroline Eyring Miner]

Renewal

Caroline Eyring Miner

I had been long away — too long, too far —
I ran the half mile up the crooked lane,
My eyes half-closed, fearing a change might mar
The memories of dear things that I feign
Would keep the same. Why was I different now?
I needed to come home again to find
Things as they once had been; for long, somehow,
I had been shaken loose from all the kind,
Familiar moorings of my early years —
Cut loose and tempest tossed. And now, at last,
I lifted slowly, eyes filling with tears,
To see and hear and feel and know the past
Again in its eternal changelessness —
Like sun upon my back, new happiness.

For not a thing was really changed at all —
The chinaberry trees were in full bloom
With heady perfume that I could recall
Had filled my childhood dreams. I could assume
That, talking quietly, my parents sat
On the porch swing that swayed and creaked today
As on those summer afternoons when at
My play I came for consolation. Say
These shadowed pencilings are of a sun
Long set, the breeze rippling the southeast pond
Day-new, and gold and scarlet sunset done
Flamboyantly against that peak, a fond
Remembrance. We who have changed so much come
Seeking the strength, the changelessness of home.

350

Memories and Mothers

What Is a Mother?
Margaret Richards

WHAT is she . . . mother? Girl, woman, wife, and a mother? Motherhood — the culmination of all the years of growing up! The fulfillment of her dreams and hopes and plans!

Just what is she . . . this mother? Well, it's certain that according to today's wage scale she is worth her weight in gold. Housekeeper, cleaning woman, laundress, seamstress, cook, nutrition expert, chauffeur, nurse, wise shopper, bargain hunter, business manager, and executive vice-president of one of the busiest and most demanding institutions in her country — the home!

Is this all she does? Oh, no! This is merely the busy-work that occupies her hands while her mind and heart and soul are bent upon a higher calling. Motherhood — a sharing in creation! A sharing in nurturing — a sharing in exaltation, as she sows the seeds in her children's souls that will, in large measure, determine their harvest in adulthood — and in eternity! Teacher, counselor, advisor, example — is there any greater influence for good or evil in human life? Oh, Mother, what a grave responsibility is yours, and what infinite opportunity!

Security, affection, a deep and unselfish love — these are your first special gifts to your little one that no one else can give quite so well as you. And what about the unnumbered things you teach that no one else can teach quite so well as you? It is from you a child learns love — love of God, love of the gospel, love of family and friends. It is at your knee a child learns prayer. It is your example that teaches thoughtfulness, courtesy, honesty, respect for authority, obedience to law and to the laws of God.

Yes, Mother, God himself has given you a calling, in importance second to none. May he, likewise, bless you with the strength and courage, with the wisdom and love, to enable you to fill in fullest measure your sacred calling here and now, and to secure your place as a priestess queen beside your husband for eternity.

351
