[Vol51 | May 1964 | Page 390 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]

Notes FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Northeast British Mission Relief Society Conference
August 10, 1963

Naomi D. Thorn, President, Northeast British Mission Relief Society, reports:

"In our August conference, we shared a day of knowledge, mixed with talents. Sister Esther Harmer showed us new ideas in bread and roll making. Our spiritual appetites were filled as the programs of the year's lessons were presented. 'A stitch in time saves nine' could have been our theme for the highlight of our day's activities. Sister Jean Law demonstrated quilt making, which is a new idea for our English saints. Musical numbers and inspiring words from our leaders and sisters of the various districts renewed our desire to serve and share our Relief Society with others."

390

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH]

North Weber Stake (Utah) Homemakers' Talent Festival
September 13, 1963

Ward work meeting leaders and stake work meeting leaders grouped around display tables of articles made in Relief Society work meetings, left to right: Esther Dance, West Weber Ward; Elaine Wade, Warren Ward; Opal Hammer, Taylor Ward; JoAnne Wilson, West Warren Ward; Lillian Thompson, Ogden Forty-sixth Ward Work Director Counselor; Dorothea Douglas, Ogden Sixteenth Ward; June Timmerick, Wilson Ward; Chloe Sessions, Ogden Third Ward; Martha Vaughn, Ogden Tenth Ward; Bertha Hadley, stake work meeting leader.

Gladys P. Wayment, President, North Weber Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held a very successful Talent Festival, September 13, 1963. A special feature was the display of articles made in Relief Society work meetings. On display were many beautiful quilts, rugs, knitted and crocheted articles, pictures, wall plaques, and paintings; interesting conversation pieces; a group of made-over articles; antiques and heirlooms, including treasured pieces of china, antique furniture, shawls, and clothing.

"From The Relief Society Magazine, we chose cookie recipes, from which many varieties of cookies were made by the wards, and these were served with sherbet, as refreshments for the occasion. Printed booklets, containing the recipes of all the different cookies, were presented to all those who attended. An interesting display was a welfare table, showing a year's supply of food for one individual, with literature and information on storage available to everyone. In the foyer was a festival of learning on parade, where lovely displays of all the lesson departments, music, and the Magazine were featured. As our festival was held through the late afternoon and the evening, many members of the Priesthood attended with the sisters. They expressed themselves as pleased with the accomplishments of the Relief Society. We were most honored to have Sister Louise W. Madsen of the General Board attend the festival. This was one of the most outstanding and best attended events we have held, and we were very pleased with the efforts of all the wards."

391

MAY 1964

Northwestern States Mission, Mid-Columbia District Indian Articles on Display at
a Friendship Day and Homemakers' Fair, The Dalles, Oregon, September 12, 1963

Verna Geneal L. Wood, President, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Mid-Columbia District of the Northwestern States Mission sponsored a Friendship Day and Homemakers' Fair. The women's auxiliaries of other churches, and other women's groups in the area were invited to attend. Displays were made of Indian artifacts, painting, flower arrangements, ceramics, genealogy, Christmas suggestions, babies' world, toys, arts and crafts, quilts and pillows, fascinating foods, and partytime.

"During the afternoon demonstrations were given on different types of parties, cake decorating, and homemade soap. A movie on figure flattery was shown before the fashion show of homemade clothing. Punch and cookies were served during the afternoon. Approximately one hundred women attended the luncheon, and the reports from these women were most gratifying. The Mid-Columbia District is composed of branches at The Dalles, Oregon; Glendale, Klickitat, White Salmon, and Stevenson, Washington. It covers an area of about one hundred miles, and has 129 Relief Society members. The district officers are: President Laurel Scholes; Education Counselor Farris Jolley; Work Director Counselor Vonda Emmett; Secretary-Treasurer Velma Page; music director Lucille Harshburger."

Southwest British Mission, First Singing Mothers Chorus Organized
In Cornwall, July 1963

Front row, left to right: Thelma Lashmore; Maureen Paddy; Gladys Hailey; Evelyn Bunny.

Second row, left to right: Vera Butler (missionary-director); Annie Miners; Nettie Roberts; Else Wall; Gyneith Thomas; Rahil Harris.

Back row, left to right: Joy Bone; Elizabeth Harvey; Monica Webb; Emma Lou Webb (missionary); Anne Webb; Joyce Beste; Veoma Done (missionary and district board member).

Elaine B. Curtis, President, Southwest British Mission Relief Society, reports: "Since the organization of this chorus, the sisters have been called upon to sing several times for various occasions within the mission. They sang for a Relief Society leadership meeting and genealogical convention held in Plymouth, England, traveling more than 150 miles by rail, bus, and car, and paying their own expenses."

Indianapolis Stake (Indiana) Visiting Teacher Convention, October 12, 1963

Left to right, front row: Marguerite Onionès, Work Director Counselor; Joan Griesemer, Education Counselor; Beverly Ferguson, President.

Sister Ferguson reports: "A wonderful time was had by the sisters who attended the visiting teacher convention, October 12, 1963, the theme of which was 'Love.' The convention was highlighted by words of wisdom and encouragement from the Relief Society advisor Bluer Vern Hobson.

"Relief Society pins were awarded to Mariam Hobson, in appreciation for her fifty-six years of active service, and to Ethel Buttons, eighty-one years old, for being the oldest active visiting teacher in the stake. The centerpieces, made by the wards and branches, portraying love of service, home, Relief Society, education, neighbors, country, God, activity, music, virtue, beauty, and visiting teaching helped to make an already delicious luncheon even more delightful. We were made more aware of the importance of visiting teaching from the lighter side by the skit 'If the Shoe Fits, Wear It,' and songs entitled 'Excuses' and 'Go, Go, Go and Teach.'

"The sweet spirit of love was present throughout the convention, which gave each sister a stronger determination to fulfill her responsibilities as a visiting teacher."

392

[PHOTOGRAPH: Interior scene showing displays and exhibits with people viewing them]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group photo of women in white blouses standing together outdoors against brick wall]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photo of many women and some children gathered outdoors]

MAY 1964

Maricopa Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for Inter-Faith Social
"Meet My Neighbor," October 25, 1963

At the right, front row, chorister Nathal Fuller; at the left in the back row, Alta Standage, organist; Goddess of Liberty, Verna Randall.

Mildred B. Jarvis, President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Members of the Maricopa Stake Relief Society had an opportunity to become better acquainted with both nonmember neighbors, and also those members of the Church who have not been active, at an Inter-Faith Social 'Meet My Neighbor,' held October 25, 1963. Members of each ward were invited to bring friends and neighbors to the stake program. Invitations, together with a brief explanation of the Relief Society program, were sent to service and cultural clubs, and to the wives of city and school officials.

"The very stimulating and informative program presented the origin and purpose of Relief Society, with emphasis on service. The script was written by Nedra Lundberg. Music for the program was furnished by the Maricopa Stake Singing Mothers, who had joined with other stakes of Arizona to sing at the October General Conference in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City.

"One of the most impressive parts of the program was the display of handicraft work made by the sisters of all the wards in the stake. This drew praise especially from the nonmembers who attended the presentation. An atmosphere of warmth and friendliness was set by the decor, with autumn colors and floral arrangements setting the theme. Stake board members and ward Relief Society presidents, who were serving as hostesses, wore name cards decorated with yellow chrysanthemums, tied with a single blue bow. Decorations on the refreshment tables in the cultural hall included dry arrangements in their natural coloring, with accents of gold.

"The expressions of the guests and members, alike, reflected the spirit of neighborliness and sisterhood which prevailed throughout the social. Many hearts were touched and eyes opened to the rewarding experiences offered through the educational and work programs of Relief Society."

New England Mission, Southern Maine Singing Mothers at "Keynote Meeting"
September 7, 1963

Ann N. Madsen, President, New England Mission Relief Society, reports: "He That Is Faithful Shall Be Made Strong' was the theme of the New England Mission Primary-Relief Society Conference. As each sister entered the Cambridge chapel she was given a name tag, a blue link printed with the words 'A Strong Link' to highlight the fact that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link.

"The Relief Society keynote meeting began at 12:30 P.M. After Sister Madsen had welcomed the sisters, a skit was presented by the mission officers called 'This Is New England. You Are There!' The props for this skit were royal blue curtains or either side of a regular door marked 'Your Sister Lives Here.' The voices in the skit came from 'all over New England,' but no one was seen to be speaking. The skit consisted of a 'before and after' series of events taken from real life here in New England, showing what Relief Society, in all its phases, can do to help the sisters, particularly those who sit behind closed doors and never see or hear from us.

"Next the sisters moved into the cultural hall, where cake decorating, quilting, smocking, rug hooking, wreaths and trees made of white and dyed turkey feathers were being demonstrated and patterns were being ordered. During this time the sisters were encouraged to sit down and learn 'how' on the spot. Many beautiful displays, with clever bazaar ideas, were set up. All of the displays were linked together with large brain links in varied colors.

"After the departments and class work, all reassembled in the chapel to hear and see an Inter-Faith Social demonstration featuring the Singing Mothers of the Southern Maine District. President Truman G. Madsen then gave inspired counsel, and the last forty-five minutes were spent in testimony bearing."

394

[PHOTOGRAPH: Group of women in white blouses and dark skirts standing in rows with American flag visible in background]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Interior view of what appears to be a church meeting or gathering, showing people seated in pews facing a podium area, with a piano visible and a banner on the wall]

395

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Western States Mission, Longmont (Colorado) Branch Presents Fashion Show
September 26, 1963

At left: Mindi Dawn Fenton, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Darrell Fenton; right: Elnor Dagle, eighty-five, first president of Longmont Branch Relief Society.

Hazel Davis, President, Western States Mission (Relief Society), reports an unusually interesting event in the Longmont Branch: "The fact that we can dress smartly and modestly without being extravagant was beautifully demonstrated with a show of ready-to-wear fashions, which included styles for children. Two of the outstanding models were little Mindi Dawn Fenton and Elnor Dagle, eighty five. Sister Dagle presented the highlight of the show when she wore the ninety-year-old, handmade wedding gown pictured.

"Preceding the style review, each of the class leaders presented a brief outline of the material to be covered in her department during the year. In this small branch, it is recognized that it is important to reach out to the inactive and nonmember sisters and acquaint them with Relief Society work. The attendance was extremely gratifying, and the success of the social has been reflected in the attendance and enthusiasm at weekly meetings.

"Among those who appeared and presented the program were: Cleta Fenton, President, Longmont Branch Relief Society; Regina Turner, Second Counselor; LaVonne Ward, Secretary-Treasurer; Dorothy Backman, work meeting leader; and LaDonna Plowman, whose lovely home was the setting for the program."

396
