Relief Society Magazine Volume 51 Number 5 I May 1964 Margery S. Stewart I! Am crowded within With lilies and new oranges Green as jade on the beloved bough. Stars flow through me, for I have Made room for stars, a space For suns. I have grown out Of myself, this morning. I have grown out of the knotted Gourd grieved bone, Broken bowl, Out of intolerable pain I grew into this tall self, This self who knows what Mocking birds are crying Upon the morning, for I, Like them, am become notes Of music. I can be placed in any melody, Movement, in symphony or lullaby, Or the deep singing of the Field woman, gathering apples In September. The Cover: ® Roses on a White Fence, Cape Cod, Massachusetts ey Transparency by Josef Muench, Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: t Trees That Lean Over Water, Lake Mempremagog, Vermont Photograph by H. Armstrong Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: © Mary Scopes The Magazine is now an integral part of my life, and I look forward so much to receiving my copies. I pass them on to my Relief Society sisters so that they may enjoy the lessons, and then they always manage to read the Magazine from cover to cover. May you go from strength to strength with this wonderful Magazine, and continue to bring joy to us all. Olive M. Evans Lichfield, Staffordshire England My heart went out to Sister Lundgren when I read her article in the January issue of the Magazine — "What Is a Work Meeting Leader?" She put into words what I have felt in my heart. Thanks to the wonderful counselors and stake leaders I had while serving as a work leader, and also my work leader, while I was work director counselor, that I have this warm feeling for Relief Society. Mrs. Donaldine J. Boase Salt Lake City, Utah As each March 10th arrives, a white card is placed in my mailbox announcing the renewal of subscription for the most interesting Magazine I have ever read — a gift from my wonderful mother, for many years — The Relief Society Magazine. From its pages have come comforting theughts and truths, which stand as a witness for the salvation of man. Irene Carrigan Winn Ogden, Utah I want to thank you for our beautiful, inspiring Magazine. I wait impatiently each month for the Magazine and the words of love and advice it contains. Shirley Woolf Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia South Africa I want to let you know how much I do enjoy reading the J zine. Each article holds so meaning and seems to give extra extra special lift. I was r last September, and my mot me a year's subscription to the zine as a Christmas present. I think of a better gift. Mrs. Dale Hamp Soda Springs, Idaho This little booklet (The ciety Magazine) has been = so much. When I have fai any headway with my frie ting forward the Latter-c story, I find the Magazine s them in the lovely stories articles. Margaret McLinto Rutherglen, lar Over the years, as a R worker, I have used the tl Celia Luce (a frequent c The Relief Society Mag times in conducting a c Venice M. Cr Phoenix, Arizona I was delighted to March issue of the M article (by Myrtle E. He the proper use of language. The mistakes most often m considered. Please give us I helps. We should take more I speaking correctly. Perhaps, errors are pointed out, and sons why they are not co explained, we will improve n idly. As a Maggzine repres I find it easy to get new suk as well as renewals, to our because of the excellent helps wide range and interest of the Olive H. Fox Salt Lake City, Utah 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. the Relief Society