[Vol51 | May 1964 | Page 328 | Special Feature | Literary Contest Announcements 1964 | ]

Literary Contest Announcements
1964

THE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests.

The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winner of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other.

Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest

THE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1964. Prizes will be awarded as follows:
First prize ..............................$40
Second prize ..........................$30
Third prize ............................$20

Prize poems will be published in the January 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow).

Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.

Rules for the contest:

1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board.

2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.

3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.)

4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks.

5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem.

6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a sealed envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used.

7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying:
   a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
   b. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work.
   c. That it has never been published.
   d. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication.
   e. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.

8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

328

1964 CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS

9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.

In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points:

a. Message or theme
b. Form and pattern
c. Rhythm and meter
d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem
e. Climax

10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1964.

11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

Relief Society Short Story Contest

THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1964 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1964.

The prizes this year will be as follows:

First prize ...............................$75
Second prize ...........................$60
Third prize .............................$50

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1965. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.

Rules for the contest:

1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication.

2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant.

3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.

4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a sealed envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used.

5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying:

a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

b. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.)

c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work.

d. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will

329

MAY 1964

not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.

6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story.

7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be

submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.

In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points:

a. Characters and their presentation.
b. Plot development
c. Message of the story
d. Writing style

9. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1964.

10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

[ILLUSTRATION: Portrait sketch of a young woman with shoulder-length hair and a collared dress]
