[Vol51 | May 1964 | Page 347 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure standing behind/embracing a globe showing continents]

MRS. Carleen Maley Hutchins, fifty-two, a motherly housewife from Montclair, New Jersey, is also an acoustical scientist who is astonishing the musical world with the stringed instruments she designs, builds, and tests electronically in her own home. Strings have remained unchanged for practically two hundred years, but for modern musical compositions, their tonal range is inadequate. She has overcome this difficulty in the family of instruments she has created, ranging from a huge bass to a smaller than normal violin. Top musicians eagerly seek to purchase her handiwork.

MRS. Jayne Baker Spain, president and owner of the Alvey-Ferguson Company, in Cincinnati, Ohio, manufacturers of conveying equipment for industry, employs blind workers to assemble conveyors. In Salonica, Greece, she was asked to prepare an exhibit for the annual International Trade Fair there. This she did, but since all workers were expected to be Greek, she taught six Greek boys and girls who were blind how to assemble a wheel conveyor moving materials around factories and warehouses. They fitted together 451 small parts, threading fifty axles through one hundred and twenty skate wheels, applying dozens of bolts and tightening them to an exact degree of tension. Visitors to the fair found this sight incredible. The human achievement was far greater than the industrial.

MRS. Mary Loveless of Cornell University Medical College, New York, has been working for seventeen years on immunizing patients allergic to the stings of various kinds of bees. She captures bees, then, with a delicate operation, removes the venom sac for the innoculating agent. Having done this more than thirty thousand times, she can now do a bee a minute. Bee stings are very harmful to many people, in certain instances even causing death.

THE third annual Shakespearean Festival on the College of Southern Utah campus (Cedar City, Utah) which will be presented July 9 through 25, will include "Twelfth Night," "Macbeth," and "Midsummer Night's Dream," in rotation. Last year Festival goers were counted from thirty-eight States and a dozen foreign countries. Mrs. Lee Thompson assists in the costume department, and Kahiki Long, a student from California, will handle lighting, as she has since the inception of the Festival in 1962.

347
