[Vol51 | May 1964 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Valley Sky at Sunrise | Author: Pearle M. Olsen,]
valley, nestling in its circle of picturesque hills, had been a constant challenge. Her heart yearned for the beautiful, the genteel, and that which was right and good. Sharing her substance was part of living. She traveled many miles to and from the peaceful valley in its circle of lovely hills to bring enjoyment to her family and friends. Many came to her door. Friend and stranger alike surrounded her table, partook of its goodness, and departed warmed and heartened. She was fulfillment of the promise ". And thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters fail not" (Isaiah 58:11). She pointed with pride to God's handiwork. Rocks, artistic and delicately colored, interestingly grotesque and hued with the rainbow, satiny smooth or rough textured—she loved them all. The silver-green sagebrush of the desert, the sweet-scented pines of the mountains, the urn-shaped buds of her favorite roses were her delight. She subdued the red clay and reveled in her springtime flowers as they came forth in defiance of the icy fingers of winter. "Anything worth doing at all is worth doing well," she said, and somehow found through infinite patience and an innate sensitivity, the right way to perform each homey task. Her jars of home-canned fruit, iridescent jewels imprisoned in glass, were a work of art; her freshly laundered clothes rivaled the ermine snows in whiteness; and bright palettes of artistically arranged raw vegetables were found on her table long before it was fashionable. It did not take "things" to make her happy. She loved quality but hated ostentation and pretense. Her joys were the simple things—her family secure and snug in a warm house during the storm, a night's repose in an immaculately clean and comfortable bed, her carefully nurtured shade trees lacing a sapphire sky, the full wheaty flavor of homemade bread, the smile on the tear-stained face of a grandchild. Mother was a valiant pioneer. Her life exemplified that each age needs women who explore and perfect when it is easier merely to accept; who endure with faith and tenacity when to yield is a worldly pattern; who discover happiness in toil when perishable rewards beckon unceasingly; who chart the course for others to follow. 352 Sara O. Moss Bic Jim looked at his sleeping wife, with little Jim's chubby hand on her cheek. Lucky kid, little Jim, to have a mother like Millie and a grandmother like Mom. Big Jim sat down in the chintz-covered chair and stretched his long legs. He gave a deep sigh, relaxing with half-closed eyes. Mother's Day! Man, for the packages! It was worse than Christmas at the post office where Big Jim worked. There had been thousands of pieces of mail — packages, cards, and many orders. Yes, it had been worse than Christmas. He dozed a little, but now and then he glanced at the package which lay on the dresser, with its gay wrappings. It was Mom's package. Millie had seen to that. Tomorrow they would take it over to Mom, the three of them. It seemed silly, so much fuss over Mother's Day. Still it was a good way to let Mom know how you felt, because a fellow just couldn't say, in so many words, how it was between him and his mother. You couldn't recount how many times Mom had somehow seen you through. Those times when you had needed her most. Big Jim recalled that sick spell, pneumonia, and he could still feel Mom's cool hand on his brow. And that day she had served punch and cookies to the fellows as they practiced football in the backyard. That made Mom a regular with the team, and Big Jim had been so proud of her. When he was ten, she had sold an heirloom to buy him a bicycle. At seventeen he had a handsome pair of new shoes to wear to a school dance, but it was years later that Jim learned Mom had used a prized little sum she was saving for a new carpet. Big Jim couldn't remember when Mom hadn't stood out on the fringe of things to give a helping hand. Those long years without Dad, Mom somehow made up for them. She laughed for Jim's sake, when he knew she was crying