[Vol51 | May 1964 | Page 342 | Fiction | Gramps and Beanie | Shirley Thulin]

GRAMPS
and Beanie

Shirley Thulin

MARGARET looked out at the day. It was a good day, the sun was noon high and the blue sky nestled a few puffy clouds. It was as good a time as any to tell Gramps about the place they had found for him. When she had tried to tell him last week it was raining. The night was fretful and she hadn't been able to say the words.

Dear Gramps, she thought. He's so special. And as always when she thought of her grandfather, he became more than a beloved relative, he somehow was tangled with other memories of the past. Things like corn-cob dolls that he so often carved for her, and long slow walks while he turned the irrigation water into their ditch, and stories ... the wonderful stories. But she had

finally decided Jim was right. Gramps was getting to be a handful. It wasn't so bad when Grandmother was still with them. She could manage him, but, lately, he had become childish, and so much work and worry. And now with the new baby on the way....

Margaret pulled the last dish from the pan of hot rinse water and put it in the drainer. Then she wiped her hands on her apron and reached up behind to untie the bow. As she went out the front door to find Gramps, she heard Michael giggle. Michael will miss him so, she thought, I wish Jim hadn't....

"Hi, you two, what's going on?"
"Hi, Mommy, come play froggy with us. Gramps plays froggy funny."

342

GRAMPS AND BEANIE

Margaret quickly looked about her. The houses on the street were close together, and neighbors were not always understanding. She started to scold, the words were high in her throat, but she knew if she began with a reprimand, she wouldn't be able to tell him.

"Michael," she said. "Go in and get ready for your nap. I'll be in in a minute."

"I don't want a nap, Mom. We aren't through playing."

"You look a little pale, dear. Do you feel all right?"

"Feel fine, Mom."

"You go take your nap, Beanie. Your mother wants to talk to me. We'll play after," Gramps said.

"Oh, Gramps . . . ." Margaret waited until Michael was gone and then the words began to tumble out, all in the wrong direction. "We love you, we really do, but . . . ."

"I know, honey, I know."

"No, you don't . . . . I mean, you really don't understand."

"I know an old fellow like me . . . ." His voice trailed off, and his eyes squinted as he looked towards the mountains. "We all got to be put out to pasture some time or other."

"It isn't like that . . . ." but Margaret couldn't tell him what it was like. She couldn't even tell herself. She knew it was a combination of the way he played so childishly with Michael, the way he refused to eat what she fixed, spurning other nourishing food for bread and milk, and he was such a worry. Always going for walks and coming home when he felt like it . . . . And if he only wouldn't call Mike Beanie . . . .

You found a place?" Gramps didn't look at her.

"Yes, we found a place. It's . . . ." She was going to tell him it was a nice place. And it really was, but she knew what many elderly persons thought of rest homes.

"Is it very far away?" Gramps looked at her then, and, suddenly, he seemed awfully tired. His eyes were searching hers.

"No. Not really very far . . . ."

"When?" Just one word, but it had been spoken as though it took all the strength he had left.

"Not for awhile," and as she told him this, she was ashamed of her lack of courage. Why hadn't she told him his room would be ready Monday? Monday . . . just four days away.

"Does Beanie know?"

"No."

"Then let me tell him," and Gramps turned slowly and went down the walk. Margaret didn't call after him to remind him to be back soon . . . she was too much aware of the sudden slump of his shoulders. Besides, she knew it wouldn't do any good, it never had.

THAT night when Jim came home it was a relief to be able to tell him that she had talked to Gramps. But she didn't mention that she hadn't told him what day.

"How did he take it?"

"Well, he was quiet. He seemed to guess what I was going to say before I began."

"He's probably heard us talking . . . ."

"He'll miss Mike."

"They're good to the old people in those places."

343

MAY 1964

"But Gramps isn't just old people. He . . . he's Gramps. He's more of a family man. Gram hasn't been gone long. Most of those old men haven't had anyone for a long time before they . . . ."

"Now, honey, you said you wouldn't fret anymore." Jim took her in his arms and put his cheek on hers. "He'll be happy, in fact, he'll be happier, he won't have you to nag him." and Jim laughed, but Margaret didn't. She could still see the longing and the searching in the old man's eyes.

"Besides," Jim was pacing the kitchen, "the doctor told you to take it a bit easy this time . . . ."

"I know . . . we've been over all this . . . ."

When the supper table was set Margaret was suddenly aware that Michael was still asleep.

"That's funny," she told Jim. "He doesn't usually sleep this long."

"Worn out, I guess. Is Gramps back yet?"

Margaret sighed. "No, and I don't suppose he will be for awhile. You sit down, I'll go wake Mike. What time does your train leave?"

"Eight-twenty. Will you bring me my shoe horn? I think it's on Mike's dresser. I don't want to forget it again. Those hotels just don't furnish shoe horns."

Margaret laughed. It was no secret that her husband wasn't overly fond of hotels. He didn't like to leave his home, not even when it meant extra money.

For a moment Margaret stood looking at Michael, then she sat on the edge of his bed and put her hand on his forehead. "Mike.

Honey. Wake up, it's supper-time."

The child stirred and said "All right," but he didn't open his eyes. Margaret frowned and felt his head again. It was hot and dry. "Jim, bring me the thermometer. I think Mike has a fever."

Mike did have a fever, but it was slight.

"Do you think I should stay home?" Jim asked.

"Oh, I don't think so. If it weren't so important for you to be there, I'd say yes, but I think he'll be all right."

"I could stay tonight and fly out in the morning."

"Too expensive. I think it's just his tonsils again. I'll take him to the doctor in the morning."

AT train time Gramps wasn't back. It was the first time she hadn't taken Jim to the station, but she couldn't take Mike and she couldn't leave him alone. Somehow, saying goodbye to Jim on the front step left her in a turmoil. As the cab pulled away from the curb she thought she saw Gramps coming up the street, but before the figure got to their corner, it crossed over, so she went inside.

The house was so silent Margaret felt a sudden weight about her. She didn't like the quiet. Michael cried once and she went in to him, but he was asleep when she got there. She felt his head again, and he was hotter. The aspirin had not checked his fever.

"Oh, if only Gramps were here." Margaret felt surprised to

344

GRAMPS AND BEANIE

be wishing for him. She went to get the thermometer and as she did, she remembered when Gramps had broken their former thermometer. He's clumsy, she thought, almost like a child.

The little silver thread had pushed its way toward the 103° mark. It frightened Margaret, for though Mike had had fevers before, he had never had one this high. She went to the phone and dialed Doctor Jeff's number. It seemed a long time before the answering service told her that the doctor was out of town. "Would you like me to call someone else?"

Margaret didn't know any other doctor. "No. No, I think it will be all right." Margaret was suddenly aware that the front door had opened and closed.

"Gramps. Is that you?"
"Yes."
"Would you come here, please? Mike's sick and I'm shaky."
"Sick? What's wrong?"
"Oh, I think it's his tonsils again, but his fever's high."
"Well, call the doctor."
"For goodness sakes, I did." Margaret was aware that the tone of her words was sharp. They were often lately. Gramps could be so exasperating sometimes. "Will you get me some water?"

"He seemed all right this morning . . . . Where's Jim?"

"Gone to Denver. You knew . . . ."

"Oh, yes. I forgot. Too bad you didn't know Beanie was sick before he went."

"We did know."

"You knew? How come he went?"

"Because he had to. Here, will you please help me lift Mike up?" "Mike . . . . son. Do you want a drink of water?"

"I never left town when one of my children was sick."

"Oh, Gramps. Times are different now. He can get back in a couple of hours if I need him. Mike, honey, here's a drink of water."

"Gramps, hold me up." Mike's voice was heavy.

"Do you hurt any place, dear?" Margaret asked him.

"My throat."

"See? His tonsils." Margaret sounded almost triumphant in her diagnosis.

"I fear he's got the virus though. The boy down the street had it. It's real bad. Doc worked with him for days."

"It's only his tonsils . . . . Why don't you go in and get ready? Your dinner is in the oven."

"I'll just have a bowl of bread and milk in a minute."

MARGARET went to her room when Mike had settled again. She had to write Bob and Helen, who, she knew, would be upset with her for putting Gramps in a home. But it was easy for them to talk. They had large families and had never had room for him for more than a week at a time. They didn't know how childish he had become and seemed to be oblivious to the amount of care he needed. Margaret put off writing them as long as she dared, but she must get at it tonight. She had planned very carefully the wording of the letter. She would tell them that for his own safety he should be where he had constant watchcare. He

345

MAY 1964

also should have a better diet, and he refused to eat for her. She would have to be sure to tell them how he went for long hours and worried her so. And, oh, yes, how lonesome he seemed to be. She felt sure they would want him to be where there were friends his own age.

Margaret had just finished Helen's letter when she heard a strange muffled sound coming from Mike's room. She was surprised to see Gramps still there, sitting on a chair in the dimness.

"Was Mike crying?"
"No."
"I thought I heard something."
"When's the doctor going to get here? His head's awful hot."
"Doctor Jeff's out of town...."
"Out of town? But you said you'd called a doctor."
"I did, but.... Do you think I'd better call someone else?"
"He's sick, Marg. It's not his tonsils." Gramps had an air of authority about him now, as he had when he was the head of the household. "You get a doctor right away. I've sat with children a lot, and I know when they're sick."

MARGARET looked at the old man, and there was no mistake about the trace of wetness on his wrinkled cheek. She sat on the edge of the bed near him and the tightness in her throat was like a wet sponge that kept swelling.

"Marg... I'm sorry I can't remember not to call him Beanie. He looks so much like your father."

"Oh, Gramps...."

"And just now... Mike looks so little and sick, just like my

children when they had the measles. We nearly lost your Dad that time. Oh, the nights Mother and I sat up with those youngsters...."

Margaret looked at the old man. It was as though she were seeing him for the first time. He had a fine profile, and though his skin had been browned from the sun and his brow was wrinkled, there was a kindness to his looks. A kindness and devotion that Margaret well remembered from her early childhood. She had heard time and again her father tell how his parents had uncomplainingly cared for the four of them. Gram and Gramps had nursed them through sicknesses, worried about them night after night when they stayed out late. She gave Gramps a big hug.

"Gramps. I will call a doctor now. And also the home."

"The home?"

"Yes. To tell them they are losing their star boarder."

"Now, Marg, you and Jim don't want an old nuisance...."

"Oh, yes we do... you're the most wonderful old nuisance I know. Jim never would have thought of taking you away if it hadn't been for my complaining."

"But you've had good reason to complain."

"No, Gramps, it's all settled."

"Gramps." Mike opened his eyes. "Don't go away."

"See, he needs you and so will the new baby. Nobody can play froggy like you." Marg left the room then. She made the phone calls, tore up her letter, then she went into the kitchen to fix two big bowls of bread and milk.

346
