[Vol3 | May 1916 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Paying the Price]

EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SusA Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. hi. MAY, 1916. No. 5. PAYING THE PRICE. We pay for The work looks so tempting before us, if it is good work work we love to do, that we scarcely realize the done. price we pay when we have accomplished the. task. The result will be so beautiful, so comely, so clean, so desirable, so altogether according to our own no- tions of how work ought to be done, that we crash into ob- stacles and climb over mountains of housework or brainwork without counting the cost. The house must be cleaned, the washing must be done, the dresses must be finished, the fruit must be put up, the lesson must be prepared, the visits must be paid. And so we go blindly on, overtaxed and stumbling. Nature will demand her price, sooner or later. Ambition's There is some great object or ambition which we Lure. have had in mind that will mean so much, not only to us, perhaps, but to the community in which we live or, perchance, to the family which we love. And so, for uncountable hours, days and weeks, we strive and strug- gle, and collapse happily at the end, if only we have climbed the height and achieved the object of our ambition but we; pay the price. Nature demands the payment of her debt, every moment, every hour. She may exact her payment in the neg- 
 lected friendships, in the untidy homes, in the untaught chil- dren, or through the bankruptcy of our own nervous system, but be assured she will exact her toll. Pleasure's Some pleasure lures us —a trip to the coast, a Heavy journey to the East, a visit to the sacred temple, debts. and the prospect itself is fascinating beyond de- gree and the plans we lay are rosy with promise. The imagination paints for us all the delights, all the pleas- ures, the profits and the joys of our undertaking, but only the wise know how to value these mirages on the desert of our fancy for be it known to all women that every pleasure, every; joy, every trip even, every visit to church or temple, demands from us its full price. Achievement is always a negotiable quan- tity. Whatever effort we put forth, we at once must ex- change with nature her equivalent, whether she exacts it in wearied muscles, worn nerves, sudden illness, or disappoint- ment when the object is gained. For every pleasure we must pay two pangs. The Toll Above the struggles that humanity enters all Gate of into, thatsupreme effort for spiritual supremacy Salvation. which is couched in the word salvation, demands the highest payment in return. It is so easy to run down hill, so difficult to climb up, especially with the hand- icaps of disinclination, temptation and the burdens of human limitations. We must pay the price. Bless your soul, anybody that achieves anything, even if it is only a burglar who climbs in the window, pays the price for his daring, in his stunted character and in his degeneracy. Those who ride in automo- biles, make their payment to life, a very much heavier toll indeed, than those who walk in the quiet paths in the meadow. Those who inhabit mansions bankrupt every resource of hu- man nature in sustaining and maintaining the handicap of their palatial homes. While the men and women who become musicians, artists, professionals, those who enter business or who conduct enterprises all those who preside in official posi- ; tions, those who bear the pangs and pains of rejecting or ac- cepting; of refusal or consent of giving encouragement or ad- ; — ministering reproof these all pay heavy draughts for that which they accomplish. Every home-maker and every home- builder pays his price for his pleasure and his comforts, in proportion as it is great or small. What debts How then shall we measure life values and deal shall we only in such exchange as shall increase our incur? mental and spiritual resources, while robbing no other soul of just due? Through choosing al- ways the difficult, unselfish things to do, climbing hard paths: of self-control and of devotion to community duties. By meas- uring ourselves wisely, taking stock accurately of our own re- sources and refusing daily to go into personal bankruptcy, no matter how tempting the lure, nor how heavy the pressure. The full price is demanded from us even for the well-chosen duties and pleasures, but He who spake as never man spake before has taught that even the wages of sin spell Death for the sinner; while the beautiful price of obedience to His laws is life eternal. Therefore, come! Go cheerfully forward, eas- ing as we may the yoke upon the shoulder, the cross over the heart. We say with Browning, 'T have always been a fighter — one more fight." Better, let us say, after each day's work, with Paul, "I have fought a good fight, I have kept the faith, T have finished my course," and so some day we shall enter into rest. "SUFFRAGE SNAPSHOTS." W'e have received from the author, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, one of the brightest contributions in the form of a book, '"Sufifrage Snapshots," we have ever seen. The title page bears the appeal, "Have a smile with me." The contents consist of witty paragraphs on the W^oman Question. All of them are jokes and yet, there is no joke in the permanence of the ideals presented in this book. For instance. I quote one "When Utah's electoral college met to cast the vote of the State for President and \*ice-President. its members selected the one woman elector to carry the result to Washington. Those \\''estern States are constantly giving just such examples as this of the way men lose respect for women when they can vote and hold office." This book can be purchased at National Suffrage Headquarters. New York City. Price. 15 cents.