[Vol3 | May 1916 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Poem | Title: A Voice Calling]

A VOICE CALLING. A voice insistent, calls unto the soul of man And bids him take the clod whereon he stands And mould and fashion it with hands Made glad by toil — LTntil the world that halts to jeer one day, All sober, shall pass on its way. And ponder in its heart And marvel, that such common clay Can clothe a thought divine, Yet be of earth a part Maud B.aggarlev. — HEALTH NOTES FOR THE SETTLERS. THE COMMON WASH RAG. Prepared by the U. S. Public Health Service. The United States Public Health Service, and the various State and local boards of health, have taken adequate measures for the abolition of that distributer of disease germs, the common towel. Now comes the news that the common wash rag is even a greater menace to health. The hotels and public hostelries have recognized this, for some time, and have supplied their guests with sterilized wash cloths in individual -sealed packets. The damp, "sour-smelling" wash rag still exists, however, in many private bathrooms. Imperfectly washed out after use, frequently not wrung out at all, it is often hung over a rack or a radiator near an open window, there to collect dust and dirt. Frequently the same wash rag is used by the entire family, thus affording an easy means of transference of mouth secretions from person to person. In many households each individual has his own cloth and his individual towel, but these hang so close to one another that there is ready interchange of bacteria. Each individual should have his own wash cloth. It should be thoroughly washed out with clean, hot water after use. It should then be wrung as nearly dry as possible and, if possible, hung in the sun to dry. It should not come in contact with other wash cloths. In the inves- tigations the United States Public Health Service is conducting in regard to the prevalence of trachoma, it has been found that common towels probably acted as a medium of distribution of the germ of the disease.- From Reclamation Organisation. Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 1 9^ discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscrip- tions sent into this office must be accompanied w^ith $ 1.00, as there is no discount allow^ed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Gene- alogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 'Utah's Most Popular Music House" English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a repre.sentative is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good DEVOTEES AND THEIR as new, but AT ABOUT % ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mtntion this maiaaine and ask for special list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID — The Most Interesting, Z. C. M. I. Inspiring and Beauti- ful Scenic Sections School Shoes of the West ARE REACHED VIA For Boys Including Arc made for service Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon they will keep the boys' Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Parle feet warm and dry. Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Z. C. M. I. Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts ALLOVERS Pacific Coast Excursions are the ideal Dailjr to November 30th play garment For Detcriptiv Liltralurt, adjrett for boys and D. E. Burley, girls. Cheap, General Passenger Agent, O. S L... Salt LaksCity, Utah serviceable. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters —and sons—to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rin^s $20 and up One Qyality Only—thejBest McCONAHAY the^Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Plan Your 1916 Vacation