[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Recipes From the Swiss-Austrian Mission]
 | Author: LaVelle D. Curtis]Recipes From the Swiss-Austrian Mission

LaVelle D. Curtis

WHILE serving in the Swiss-Austrian Mission, my husband and I had many opportunities to sample the delicious foods of Switzerland, Austria, and Germany. We found the people very generous in sharing their recipes with us, and I would like to pass some of them on to you.

WIENER SCHNITZEL
(Veal Cutlets)

2 lbs. veal cutlets (cut thin)
2 eggs, beaten
Fine bread crumbs
Salt and pepper
Butter or shortening for frying
Lemon slices

Pound the veal cutlets until they are very thin. Season with salt and pepper. Dip in beaten eggs, then roll in fine bread crumbs. Fry in hot butter or shortening until golden brown on both sides. Serve with lemon slices. Serves 6.

SAUERBRATEN
(Sweet and Sour Pot Roast)

4 lbs. beef roast (chuck or rump)
2 cups vinegar
2 cups water
1 large onion, sliced
2 bay leaves
6 whole cloves
1 tsp. salt
1/4 cup sugar
2 tbsp. shortening
1/4 cup flour
1/2 cup sour cream

Place meat in deep bowl. Combine vinegar, water, onion, bay leaves, cloves, and salt. Pour over meat. Cover and let stand in refrigerator 2 to 4 days, turning meat once each day. Remove meat from marinade and pat dry. Brown on all sides in hot shortening. Add marinade and sugar. Cover and simmer 3 to 4 hours or until tender. Remove meat. Strain liquid and thicken with flour mixed with a little cold water. Add sour cream. Serve gravy with sliced meat. Serves 8.

APFELSTRUDEL
(Apple Strudel)

Strudel dough:
2 cups flour
1 egg
1/2 tsp. salt
2 tbsp. oil
1/2 cup warm water (about)

Filling:
6 cups sliced apples
1/2 cup sugar
1 tsp. cinnamon
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 cup chopped nuts
1/4 cup melted butter
Fine bread crumbs

Make a well in flour, add egg, salt, oil, and enough warm water to make a soft dough. Knead until smooth and elastic. Cover and let rest 30 minutes. Roll out on floured cloth as thin as possible. Brush with melted butter and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Spread apple mixture over half of dough. Roll up like jelly roll, using cloth to help. Place on greased baking sheet. Brush with butter. Bake at 400° F. for 45 minutes or until golden brown. Serves 8.

LEBKUCHEN
(Honey Cakes)

1 cup honey
3/4 cup brown sugar
1 egg
1 tsp. lemon juice
2 3/4 cups flour
1 tsp. cinnamon
1/2 tsp. cloves
1/2 tsp. allspice
1/2 tsp. nutmeg
1 tsp. soda
1/2 cup chopped almonds
1/2 cup chopped citron

Heat honey slightly and mix with brown sugar. Cool. Add egg and lemon juice. Sift together flour, spices, and soda. Add to honey mixture with nuts and citron. Chill dough overnight. Roll 1/4 inch thick and cut with cookie cutters. Bake on greased cookie sheets at 400° F. for 10 to 12 minutes. While warm, brush with thin powdered sugar icing. Makes about 5 dozen.

LINZER TORTE

1 cup butter
1 cup sugar
2 egg yolks
1 1/2 cups flour
1 cup ground almonds
1 tsp. cinnamon
1/4 tsp. cloves
Grated rind of 1 lemon
Raspberry jam

Cream butter and sugar. Add egg yolks. Mix in flour, almonds, spices, and lemon rind. Press 2/3 of mixture into bottom and sides of 9-inch spring-form pan. Spread with raspberry jam. Roll remaining dough and cut in strips. Arrange in lattice pattern over jam. Bake at 350° F. for 45 minutes. Cool before removing from pan.

These recipes have been tested in American kitchens and measurements, and I hope you will enjoy them as much as we have.