[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Are All Alike Diferent]
Joy  in  Service  
 Jennie   Brown  Rawlins  100 
We  Are  All  Alike— But  Dif.erent   
 Elsie   C.    Carroll  109 
On  Starting   the  Day  Right   
 Wilma   Boyle    Bunker  113 
Life  Is  Not  a  Holiday  
 Anne  S.   W.   Gould  118 
FICTION 
Fifty  Singing   Aprils — Second  Prize   Story   
 Mabel   Law  Atkinson     80 
Never   Wish   for   the   Moon   
 Dorothy   S.    Romney     90 
The   Gift  and  the   Giver  
 Frances    C.    Yost  104 
Elizabeth's  Children— Chapter  II  
 Olive  W.  Burt  114 
GENERAL  FEATURES 
From   Near   and   Far   
  74 
Sixty  Years  Ago   
  96 
Woman's  Sphere  
 Ramona  W.   Cannon  97 
Editorial:    "Be   My   Valentine"    
 Marianne    C.    Sharp  98 
Birthday  Congratulations  to  Amy  Brown  Lyman     99 
Notes  From  the  Field:   Relief  Society  Activities  
 Hulda  Parker  119 
Birthday    Congratulations   
  144 
FEATURES  FOR  THE  HOME 
Recipes  From   the   Swiss-Austrian   Mission   
 LaVelle   D.    Curtis  101 
Mary  Bauer  Clark  Makes   Quilts  of  Exquisite  Workmanship     103 
Scissor   Happy   
 Helen    H.    Jones  108 
An  Easy  Way  to  Make  Rugs  
 Eugenie  Daniels   110 
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
Theology:   The  Restoration  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood    Roy  W.   Doxey  124 
Visiting  Teacher  Messages:   ".    .    .  Be  Faithful  and  Diligent  in  Keeping  the 
Commandments  of   God   .    .   ."    
 Christine   H.   Robinson  129 
Work  Meeting:   Debts   and   Trouble    
 William    F.    Edwards  130 
Literature:  The  Tempest  
 Briant   S.   Jacobs  132 
Social  Science:  Families  Have  Neighbors    John  Farr  Larson  138 
POETRY 
Song   for  Winterset — Frontispiece    
 Lizabeth   Wall   Madsen     73 
Winter  Etching   
 Grace    Ingles    Frost     79 
Loneliness     
 Linda     Crane     79 
Refuge     
 Hazel     Loomis     86 
Assignment    for  Tomorrow    
 Mabel    Jones    Gabbott     87 
This    One    Day    
 Constance    Timberlake     99 
On  Entering  a  Small  Boy   in  the  Hospital  
 Elsie   M.   Strachan  102 
Heart's  Oasis   
 Eva   Willes   Wangsgaard  103 
To  a  Child  Pushing   a  Doll-Carriage   
 Ida  Elaine   James  108 
Proposal    
 Helen    H.    Winn  113 
Winter   Time    
 Stella   Craft   Tremble   137 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  7G  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah:  Phone  EMpire  4-2511; 
Subscriptions  246;  Editorial  Dept.  245.  Subscription  Price:  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year; 
20c  a  copy  ;  payable  in  advance  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back 
numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of 
address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
Page  75 

Family  Unity 
Dantzel  W.  Nelson 
AS  
the  only  male  member  in  We  find  that  we  have  our  most  fun 
our    family    of    seven,     our  and  satisfaction  preparing  and  plan- 
■  Daddy    is    slightly    outnum-  ning   to   please   other   members   of 
bered.     He  also  has  to  be  a  bit  of  the  family.    Even  our  Family  Hour 
a  Solomon  to  help  smooth  over  the  has  become  more  successful  since  it 
temperamental  crises  that  arise.    In  has    been    known    as    our    'Tamily 
our  family,  Daddy  acts  as  the  steady-  Party."     One  night  a  week,  we  try 
ing    influence    in    keeping    family  to  have  our  Family  Party.  It  begins 
unity    in    our    home.     It    can    be  early  in  the  day,  as  one  of  the  four 
noticed  first  thing  in  the  morning  oldest  girls  is  to  plan  the  menu  and 
when  the  ''good  fairies''   (including  help  prepare  dinner  for  that  night. 
Daddy)  scurry  around  straightening  Whatever  she  prepares  for  dessert, 
beds    while    Mother    is    preparing  we  use  as  refreshments  at  the  end 
breakfast.     With  much  praise  and  of    our    party.     It's    amazing    how 
exclaiming  from  Mother,  a  happy  everyone  tries   her  best  to  eat   all 
feeling  of  accomplishment  prevails  that  has  been  prepared  so  our  little 
at  breakfast,  and  thence  into  family  cook  for  the  evening  won't  be  dis- 
prayer  which  is  called  to  order  by  appointed.     Of  course,  the  cook  is 
the  ringing  of  a  little  bell,  the  sole  so   pleased   if   everyone  enjoys  her 
use  of  which  is  to  call  the  family  to-  masterpieces.     As    of   the   present, 
gether.     To  ring  the  family  prayer  Mother  has  to  give  a  few  hints  and 
bell  is  a  privilege,  enjoyed  especially  a  bit  of  help,  but  it  won't  be  too 
by  two-year-old  Sylvia.  Family  prayer  long  before  all  the  girls  can  plan  and 
constitutes  an  important  support  for  prepare  a  meal  with  skill.    Marsha, 
unity  in  our  home,  for  it  is  evident  our      nine-year-old,      presents      an 
that  'The  family  that  prays  togeth-  especially   well-prepared    dinner   al- 
er,   stays   together."    Morning   and  ready,  and  with  very  little  assistance, 
night,  and  at  mealtimes  we  unitedly  After  dinner,  our  party  begins  with 
give  our  thanks  for  our  many  bless-  prayer    and    then    opens    with    the 
ings  and  pray  for  the  righteous  de-  business    portion.      Responsibilities 
sires  of  our  hearts.    The  opportun-  are  delegated,  and  problems  are  dis- 
ity  of  being  leader  is  given  to  each  cussed  at  this  time.     Recently,  for 
in  turn.  example,     the     discussion     evolved 
Of  course,  with   our  Daddy  be-  around  the  change  in  bedrooms  and 
ing   a   doctor,   his   work  frequently  sleeping  companions  necessitated  by 
prohibits  his  being  with  us,  but  we  the  expectation  of  a  little  newcomer 
still  are  a  family  and  try  to  carry  into   our  family  circle.     Following 
on  the  same  without  him  as  when  the  business  portion  is  the  program 
he  is  here.    We  do  strive  to  be  all  where  the  children  each  participate, 
together  at  least  once  a  day,  and  it  They  tell  a  story  they  have  heard  in 
usually  is  for  the  evening  meal.  school,  or  sing  a  song,  or  play  the 
As  a  family,  we  celebrate  as  many  piano.    Wendy,  age  six,  and  Gloria, 
occasions  as  possible  with  a  party,  age  five,  especially  enjoy  acting  out 
Page  76 

FAMILY  UNITY 
77 
DR.  RUSSELL  M.  NELSON  AND  HIS  FAMILY 
Left  to  right:  Gloria;  Wendy;  Dr.  Nelson;  Dantzel  White  Nelson,  holding  Sylvia; 
Marsha;  Brenda. 
nursery  rhymes.  The  family  must 
guess  what  they  are  attempting  to 
depict.  Brenda,  age  three,  hkes  to 
dance  to  a  record.  Then,  after  clos- 
ing prayer,  we  have  our  refresh- 
ments, and  after  a  quick  cleanup, 
the  girls  are  all  tucked  into  bed.  Not 
every  family  night  is  conducted  in 
this  manner.  For  variety,  we  may 
watch  home  movies,  or  visit  other 
members  of  our  families,  or  on  spe- 
cial occasions,  such  as  Christmas,  we 
may  decorate  the  tree,  prepare 
homemade  gifts,  or  sing  carols  to- 
gether. 
OIRTIIDAYS  provide  another  im- 
portant time  for  family  cele- 
brations. These  are  days  when  we 
try  to  give  special  attention  to  one 
in  particular;  something  that  is 
otherwise  difficult  to  achieve  in  a 
large  family.  Even  if  the  birthday 
girl  is  only  one-year-old,  she  has  her 
own  birthday  cake  and  a  party,  with 
small  gifts  from  each  of  her  sisters. 
We  blow  up  balloons  and  sing 
''Happy  Birthday"  after  a  family 
dinner.  Grandparents,  uncles,  aunts, 
and  cousins  are  invited  to  come  in 
during  the  evening  for  cake  and  ice 
cream.  For  the  older  girls,  friends 
are  included  as  well,  if  this  is  their 
desire.  Sisters  are  always  included 
in  the  party  and  bring  small  gifts  as 
do  all  of  the  invited  guests.  Daddy 
usually  gets  home  for  the  end  of 
the  party  and  takes  pictures  so  each 
one  may  have  a  record  of  her  birth- 
day event. 
In  twelve  years  of  married  life,  we 
have  moved  seven  times,  including 
sojourns  from  Salt  Lake  City  to 
Minneapolis,  to  Washington,  D.  C, 
to  Boston,  to  Minneapolis,  and 
finally,  back  to  Salt  Lake  City.  As 
a  consequence,  the  move  has  usually 
represented  the  only  vacation  time 
that  we  have  had.  We  ha\e  always 
moved  together,  and  our  trips  in  the
