[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
[The Swiss-Austrian Mission Preston R. Nibley]

For the older girls, friends are included as well, if this is their desire. Sisters are always included in the party and bring small gifts as do all of the invited guests. Daddy usually gets home for the end of the party and takes pictures so each one may have a record of her birthday event. In twelve years of married life, we have moved seven times, including sojourns from Salt Lake City to Minneapolis, to Washington, D. C., to Boston, to Minneapolis, and finally, back to Salt Lake City. As a consequence, the move has usually represented the only vacation time that we have had. We have always moved together, and our trips in the 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 car have been most enjoyable. Recently, we motored to the Zion, Grand Canyon, and Bryce national parks. Such excursions constitute an unexcelled opportunity to learn to get along with each other and the lessons of tolerance and adaptability. On-the-spot education relating to points of interest in the history of our country and Church has been possible at places like Provincetown, Plymouth, Palmyra, Kirtland, Nauvoo, and many other interesting sites. For nearly four years, we have traveled in our station wagon, that is expertly packed by our Daddy with a "bedroom" in the back, "sitting room" in the middle, and with Mother and Daddy in the front. Each child gets a turn at each place. We spice up the monotony of travel by playing games; mostly guessing games. Particular favorites are the singing games where each one gets a turn to hum a song while the others hasten to state the name of it. For diversion, a surprise sack is prepared before departure in which are individually wrapped surprises, such as tiny dolls, crayons and coloring books, puzzles, bright shiny measuring spoons for the baby; anything that will keep them occupied. 'These are given out one at a time when tempers begin to flare and little backs get tired of sitting. Often, this has saved the day and helped restore peace to troubled tots. What a thrill it was to take our sweet little girls to see the Salt Lake, St. George, and Manti temples; to answer their questions and explain that, because of the temple martriage of their Mother and Daddy, we may be privileged to continue our family relationships into the eternities ahead, if we keep ourselves worthy. Never has there been such a feeling of closeness in our family, and how thrilled we were when our oldest girl said, "When I grow up, I'm going to marry someone like Daddy in the temple; then we can always be together, too." How we hope and pray each day that she and her sisters will all prepare to achieve this goal! T is a wonderful thing for children to have a Father who really enjoys his children; a Father who is vitally concerned about their spiritual, as well as physical, well-being. The girls look forward to his coming home. He washes their hair, helps teach them cleanliness, plays with them, and even takes them on special trips with him. Our oldest gitls have each had a trip with their Daddy when he has traveled out of the State on speaking engagements. They have journeyed by train, taxi, and plane, and these trips are something they never will forget. Not only is it educational for them, but they get the opportunity to become better acquainted with their Daddy. They come back with a new love for each other and an_ understanding that comes from being treated "like a princess." It is such a good way to get close to each other in a way they can't do at home when Daddy has to be divided five ways. At home, we try to get special time alone with each child, but it is difficult to get away from doctor's duties, home duties, and Church duties, etc. Long enough to spend much individual attention on each child. FAMILY UNITY Many things we do in our family would be rather difficult to carry out in a home where children are older, but certainly the feeling of love and unity can be cultivated in any home. We find it better to welcome our children's friends here and provide space and equipment for them, than to worry about where each one is playing away from home. A good friend once said, "Be grateful and enjoy your children while they are young. You can tuck them all in at night and know they are safe. In a few years, other worries will start. Each child will go her own way and then you will have worries." While this is undoubtedly true, we hope to build a founda- 79 tion of trust and love for each other that will carry us through the future. Only time itself will tell us if we have succeeded. Certainly, we have problems that must be faced and many that have not been solved. There is one source that is a constant guide to us — the gospel of Jesus Christ. 'The messages of our prophets today that we all hear each Sunday as we attend Sunday School and sacrament meeting together are a constant inspiration and source of ideas. The Auxiliaries help us; our faith helps us; and our prayers help us. We constantly hope that our home will be a home of love, unity, and dedication to the teachings of our Savior. —>- Winter &iching Grace Ingles Frost Like folds of white chiffon, a morning mist Wraps itself about the mountain heights, As if to hide from view their nudity, Then billows out across an inland sea, To mingle with the spindrift and the gulls That cry their disapproval raucously, Till shot by shafts of sun it disappears In beauty to remember through the years. Eatclentess Linda Crane Alone, and in the loneliness I see The loneliness of others. It may be They're sensing, too, within each silent heart The walls eternal, locking us apart. Their eyes, alleged windows to the soul, Remain opaque — conceal their truest goal. We share our tears, our happiness, our fears, And yet remain alone through endless years. Each treads a private world, sails his own sea. On courses separate, lone, eternally. But when I call to him from humble knee My loneliness is gone, he walks with me. Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Fifty Singing Aprils Mabel Law Atkinson MABEL LAW ATKINSON FLASH of cerulean blue wings through the lacy, greening limbs of the old black willow and a lark-flute calling from the fence post announced to Susan Barclay that spring had come. "Another singing April!" she said softly to no one in_ particular. "Another singing April, and I have a letter to write this morning!" Her step was buoyant as_ she walked the winding path of stepping stones from her back garden to her kitchen door, noticing the bordering tulips still in their green nightcaps, and the snow-on-thePage 80 mountain just beginning to send out its green tendrils. A half hour later, she was sitting at her desk when the doorbell rang. She looked up to greet four smiling little boys. "Happy anniversary, Grandma!" they called in unison. Then Rodney, the oldest of the four, continued, "We brought our gift early so you can enjoy it all day, you and Grandpa." "Daffodils!" exclaimed Susan. "My favorite April flowers! A splash of sunshine, I call them. And so many!" "There are two dozen, Grandma, for I counted them." Eight-year-old Robert's face was as radiant as the yellow blooms. "Two dozen! And so beautiful! Let's put them in this large blue swan, with its frog, so each flower will get its proper share of attention. 'There now, spring is in my room." Susan gave each a kiss and felt little arms about her. Even thirteen-year-old Rodney was not too big to receive and give aftection. "Why, Grandma, you were writing a letter to Grandpa, and he isn't away from home. I saw him in the yard when we came." It was tenyear-old Richard who spoke. "Yes, my dear, I always write a letter to your grandpa on our anniversaty." FIFTY SINGING APRILS "Do you mean you've written Grandpa forty-nine letters before this one? 'This is your Golden Wedding, you know." Incredulity was in Rodney's voice. "And he has been right at home with you every time?" "He has been away a few times." "But why do you do it, Grandma?" asked Richard. "Because he wanted me _ to." Susan's eyes were twinkling reminiscently as she explained, "We had been married but one week when your grandpa said, 'Susan, only one regret I have, and that is that I shall not be getting letters from you now. Yours were wonderful letters, darling. I can't give them up entirely.' Before he could finish I said laughingly, "All nght, P1l write you sometime, say on our first anniversary.' " "And it ended up by your writing a letter each anniversary.' Rodney's quick mind anticipated what she was going to say. "Yes, Rodney, it turned out that way." Later, after the boys had gone, their hands filled with cookies, and wee Johnny's pockets bulging, too, Susan Barclay sat down to finish her letter. She was thinking how blessed she was to have Aileen and her family living in the same town. The four little Randals, as she called them lovingly, were like the sunshine of spring no matter what the weather. She picked up her pen, but sat idly musing, "Fifty joyous years together! I wonder what John will give me_ today. Something special, I am sure. And to think that tonight our five children will be here, and our grandchildren, too!" 81 "Fifty years together!'' she wrote. "Can it be possible! Fifty good, strong, and beautiful years, each with a harvest of its own, yet each a part of one great harvest!" She lifted her pen, looked far away for a moment, then continued writing, "Remember, John, how those teachers at college urged me not to marry?" Again she heard the voice of Miss Janfrey, her creative writing teacher, "Marriage is not for you, Miss Lee. Any woman can marry and raise a family. You must go on unhampered with your career. The world has a night to demand this of you. With your talents, you must influence the race not just a child or two of your own." Her pen was moving again, "Remember how you laughed, John, when I told you that I had said to her, that my highest ambition was to get married and have a family?" ¢¢ AND get married we did, and we have our family. 'Tell me, Susan, have you one little regret or feeling of frustration?'"' It was John who spoke. He had come in quietly and had been reading over her shoulder. "I did not really intend to snoop, you know, not really," he explained. Seeing his slight flush of chagrin, Susan consoled him with, "I forgive you, John. And let your mind be at ease, for I haven't any regrets or frustrations. What if I haven't written books, painted pictures, or become a great vocalist? I have created beauty by giving smiles to my children's faces; making little pinafores and shirts; and never once have I taken the brown loaves from the oven without experiencing the thrill and beauty of creation." 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 "And you have sung lullabies, and solos in church." John continued her line of thought. "You know, my dear, you were the most beautiful of all to me singing a lullaby to a new, little pink-faced guest from heaven, with other little ones about you, wonder in their eyes." "And always you completed the picture. Don't you see, a_ living work of art? But now, out with you, John, or I shall never get your letter finished." Still he lingered and said reminiscently, "It seems but yesterday that you wrote me my first anniversary letter, and it was such a masterpiece, giving the beauty and strength I needed, that I asked you to write me each year as your gift to me. I have all your letters, Susan, every one. 'They build my morale even now, for in them you seem to forget my failures. Always you have been my inspiration." Susan interrupted him, "And you have been my_ strength. There have been no failures, John, no real failures. 'lime is proving that more and more." "Thank you, my dear." And with a light kiss on her forehead he was gone. Susan sat motionless for a while, a half-smile playing upon her features. Then her pen broke the silence with its rhythmic strokes, "Did you know you are a handsome man, John, that age is becoming to you? And you have been handsome all through the years, not with the flawless perfection of features, but with a certain rugged and honest beauty reflecting the sinceri