[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
Sixt^     LJears  J/igo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  i,  and  February  15,  1898 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
GEORGE  WASHINGTON  MEMORIAL  ENTERTAINMENT:  The  George 
Washington  Memorial  entertainment  on  Saturday  evening,  February  19,  was  a  great 
success.  The  entertainment  was  given  at  Major  and  Mrs.  Downey's  residence,  808  East, 
First  South.  The  house  is  admirably  adapted  for  entertaining,  spacious  halls  and  rooms 
large  and  connected  with  folding  doors.  The  decorations  were  simply  superb  and  one 
could  not  help  feeling  the  enthusiasm  that  comes  from  flags,  stars  and  stripes,  banners, 
and  martial  music.  .  .  .  Some  of  the  ladies  of  the  committee  were  in  the  costumes  of 
1776  —  with  powdered  hair,  feathers,  high  combs,  and  rare  old  laces.  .  .  . 
— News  Note 
WASHINGTON'S  BIRTHDAY 
Arise  —  'tis  the  day  of  our  Washington's  glory. 
The  garlands  uplift  for  our  liberties  won; 
Forever  let  Time  tell  the  patriot's  story 
Whose  sword  swept  for  freedom  the  fields  of  the  sun  .... 
— Selected 
REPORT  FROM  LAIE,  OAHU,  HAWAIIAN  ISLANDS:  I  am  pleased  to  say 
that  the  work  is  progressing  nicely,  and  I  think  our  association  will  compare  favorably 
with  others.  We  find  among  the  Hawaiian  sisters  many  faithful  and  energetic  workers. 
They  take  great  interest  in  learning  of  things  pertaining  to  the  gospel  and  I  have  known 
some  of  them  to  walk  from  three  to  eight  miles  to  attend  meeting.  ...  At  present 
there  are  twenty-eight  branches,  and  as  a  rule  meetings  are  held  weekly.  .  .  .  Once  in 
six  weeks  I  send  some  of  the  leading  sisters  to  the  other  islands  to  visit  them  in  their 
conferences,  and  I  hope  that  we  missionary  sisters  may  be  able  to  visit  all  the  branches 
on  the  islands  in  the  near  future. 
— Alice  R.  Woolley 
MOTTO:  The  more  we  live  for  self  the  less  we  shall  find  the  value  of  existence; 
the  more  we  live  for  others  and  out  of  self,  the  greater  will  be  the  joy  and  satisfaction 
of  hving. 
— Selected 
A  POET'S  EVENING:  On  the  evening  of  Friday,  January  21,  a  number  of 
old-time  friends  of  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow,  the  sublime  and  eminent  leader  among  the 
women  of  Zion,  kept  her  birthday  anniversary  at  the  home  of  the  writer.  There  were 
about  forty  of  the  sisters  present,  among  whom  were  the  venerable  women  Zina  D.  H. 
Young,  M.  Isabella  Home  and  Bathsheba  W.  Smith  and  others  not  so  far  ad\'anced  in 
life.  These  three  mothers  in  Israel  were  members  of  the  first  organization  of  the 
Relief  Society  in  Nauvoo,  and  had  always  been  closely  associated  with  "Sister  Eliza." 
....  Many  of  the  ladies  present  read  choice  selections  from  her  favorite  poem  of  the 
esteemed  and  revered  poetess.  The  memory  of  the  beloved  "elect  lady"  was  fresh  and 
tender  in  the  minds  of  all  present.  Her  writings,  her  teachings,  her  travels  at  home  and 
abroad,  her  labors  among  the  people  and  in  the  Temple  were  all  remarked  upon  in  the 
general  conversation.  .  .  . 
— Emmehne  B.  Wells 
Page  96

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramoiia  W.  Camion 
lyiRS.  TAI  YOUNG  LEE-CFIY- 
UNG  is  the  first  and  at  pres- 
ent the  only  woman  lawyer  in 
Korea.  Along  with  two  male  Ko- 
rean lawyers,  she  was  recently  a 
grantee  in  the  Specialist  Training 
Program  sponsored  by  the  United 
States  Department  of  State.  She 
attended  lectures  on  American  law 
at  Southern  Methodist  University, 
in  Dallas,  Texas,  and  traveled 
throughout  the  country  learning 
about  our  laws.  Mrs.  Lee-Chyung 
is  especially  interested  in  the  legal 
status  of  women  and  children  and 
in  learning  about  our  juvenile 
courts.  She  established  and  person- 
ally finances  the  Korean  Legal  Cen- 
ter for  Women  in  Seoul,  which  is 
training  other  women  lawyers. 
r\ONNA  HILL,  literature  leader 
in  the  Manhattan  Ward  Relief 
Society,  New  York  City,  has  writ- 
ten and  illustrated  a  picture  book 
about  Spain  for  children  from  ages 
three  to  eight.  It  is  titled  Not  One 
More  Day  (Viking  Press),  and  is 
listed  by  the  New  York  Times 
Book  Review  Seetion  (November 
17,  1957)  in  ''One  Hundred  Out- 
standing New  Books  for  the  Young- 
er Reader."  Donna  Hill  read  her 
story  and  showed  slides  of  her  book 
at  the  "Explore  the  World  in 
Books"  festival  held  during  Book 
Week  at  the  World  Affairs  Center 
in  New  York  City. 
yESTA  P.  CRAWFORD,  As- 
sociate Editor  of  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  won  the  Dcseret 
News  Christmas  Story  Contest  for 
1957  ^'^^^^  ^^^^  entry  ''Aria  in  the 
Wilderness,"  and  Mabel  Jones 
Gabbott,  a  contributor  to  the  Maga- 
zine, was  awarded  the  poetry  con- 
test prize  for  her  poem  "The  Three 
Witnesses." 
lyiR.  AND  MRS.  PETER  PET- 
^  ^  ERSON  (Celestia  M.  Terry), 
ninety-seven  and  ninety-six  years 
old,  a  Latter-day  Saint  couple  from 
Fairview,  Utah,  celebrated  their 
seventy-ninth  wedding  anniversary 
December  11,  1957.  They  are  be- 
lieved to  be  the  longest-married 
couple  in  the  United  States.  They 
have  forty-eight  grandchildren,  149 
great-grandchildren,  and  thirty-two 
great-great-grandchildren.  Three  of 
their  children  have  celebrated  their 
golden  weddings. 
ANNABEL  DOUGLAS  McAR- 
^^  THUR  and  MERLE  SIN- 
CLAIR have  written  a  dramatic 
story  of  the  signers  of  the  Declara- 
tion of  Independence.  This  gives 
all  sorts  of  interesting  information 
about  the  men  who  signed  the 
Declaration,  which  all  of  us  ought 
to  know,  but  most  of  us  do  not. 
They  Signed  for  Us  has  a  good 
ready  reference  (New  York:  Duell, 
Sloan  and  Pearce,  Inc.  1957). 
Page  97

- Dl roi Ri 
lA 
VOL.  45 
FEBRUARY  1958 
NO.  2 
[Jbe    1 1  Ly^    Valentine 
^^gE  Mine/'  ''My  Heart  Beats  for 
You/'  ''Ever  Thine/'  These 
expressions,  whether  written  on  a 
small  candy  heart  or  elaborately  in- 
scribed on  a  valentine  which  was 
delivered  from  the  red  and  white 
ruffled  post  office  box  in  the  school- 
room, still  have  the  power,  years 
later,  to  evoke  that  happy,  singing 
feeling  which  swept  over  the  youth- 
ful recipient  of  loving  messages. 
As  one  passes  through  life's  ex- 
periences, however,  youthful  assur- 
ance, in  turn,  is  slowly  replaced  by 
youth's  uncertainties,  adult  reason- 
ing, mature  reflection,  and  elderly 
realities,  and  the  custom  of  exchang- 
ing visual  or  verbal  symbols  of  love 
and  affection  is  often  discarded. 
As  this  Valentine  Day  approaches, 
it  might  be  well  to  recapture  that 
childish  delight  and  bring  its  joys 
to  others.  Although  physical  ap- 
pearances change,  hearts  may  ever 
remain  young  and  eager. 
One  of  the  most  effective  ways  to 
relieve  care,  discouragement,  and 
sorrow,  is  an  expression  of  solicitude 
and  friendly  affection  for  others— 
the  giving  of  service.  Probably  there 
are  on  every  block  of  homes,  per- 
sons who  need  to  be  given  a  valen- 
tine. It  may  be  a  visit  to  express 
the  spirit  of  friendliness  and  con- 
cern for  another's  daily  welfare.  It 
may  be  tending  the  children  of  a 
burdened  mother  —  to  allow  her 
time  to  go  out  of  the  home  or  even 
to  seclude  herself  in  her  bedroom 
Page  98 
for  rest.  Who  does  not  recall  the 
blessed  feeling  of  being  able  to  go 
to  bed  when  ill  or  tired,  knowing 
that  mother  would  take  care  of 
everything,  of  wrapping  oneself  in 
a  cocoon  of  oblivion,  half-hearing 
the  dear,  familiar  sounds  of  house- 
hold tasks  accomplished  without  any 
effort  by  oneself? 
Bestowing  this  feeling  of  release, 
for  just  a  short  period,  revives  the 
spirits  of  the  overburdened  and  is 
a  welcome  valentine. 
Another  valentine  to  be  treasured 
is  the  giving  or  lending  of  a  book- 
not  necessarily  one  of  instruction, 
but  one  to  be  enjoyed— for  relaxa- 
tion. One  woman  always  leaves  "a 
valentine"  in  the  form  of  a  book 
where  she  has  been  a  house  guest. 
Her  visit  is  recalled  whenever  the 
book  is  seen  or  remembered.  A 
"valentine"  party  will  bring  old  or 
new  friends  together.  During  one's 
school  days,  how  often  two  chums 
went  to  lunch  together  and  then  to 
a  movie.  That  custom  could  per- 
sist as  a  valentine  to  a  cherished 
friend. 
Every  person  needs  to  know  that 
he  is  "special"  to  one  or  many  other 
persons.  On  this  Valentine  Day  it 
would  be  heartwarming  to  give 
"valentines"  to  the  lonely,  those  far 
from  their  own  loved  ones  or  from 
their  own  native  lands,  to  a  young 
mother  who  feels  in  need  of  en- 
couragement and  praise,  to  a  new- 
comer in  the  ward.