[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Goold]
92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 "Yes, I know," Lorna answered. They were the Rainbows, the class next to Lorna's in age, and fitted in with her own class best, but four more, and today of all days! She knew the disappointment of the children when their teacher didn't report. Her mind was in a turmoil. "Tl take them," she finally said. She just couldn't voice her excuse — especially now when Sister Martin wouldn't be there. She should have known all along that her training and ideals wouldn't let her bow out for so trivial a matter as a dinner. "And, Lorna," Sister Lambert added, "would you mind picking up the Martin girls? My car is full to capacity." "I']l remember them." It would mean leaving fifteen minutes earlier than usual. Baby Bill started crying lustily. "Not already," Lorna moaned, but there he was wide awake and demanding attention. She gathered him up in her arms, held him tight, grateful for moments like this, when she could make her children feel more secure in this rapidly moving world. ER tasks loomed ahead of her, mountainous and insurmountable. Her thoughts went to Nell again, and her carefree mode of living. Why — she led almost a little girl's existence, no responsibilities or tasks. She was a charming person, but after all, what else did she have to do except be charming? Lorna wondered then if Nell had the deep satisfaction from life that she herself had. Just then Ricky banged the back door. "Hi, darling," Lorna greeted him. "Home already?" "Uhhuh," he agreed, and Lorna thought she detected a storm brewing. "You didn't quarrel with Jeffry or Ned?" Lorna asked. "Naw, there wasn't anything to do over there," he answered. "Want to help mother?" she asked. "What with?" Ricky had his father's measure of caution. "Cutting windmills for Primary." She hoped it sounded exciting to him. "Okay." She got some paper. She'd draw the patterns. For a five-year-old, Ricky was very expert at manipulating scissors if he had lines to follow. She could see through the kitchen window that Nell was reading a magazine in her hammock, a daily practice while her boys napped. "How can she content herself with being such a drone?" Lorna asked herself for the hundredth time. Going out to dinner several times a month with the doctor and the boys seemed to be her only recreation or change. Lorna caught herself up angrily. Was she criticizing Nell? Or was she envious of her carefree existence? Whichever it was, it would never do. "My hand's getting tired," Ricky complained. "All right, we'll go out and cut the sticks," Lorna answered. "May I carry the knife?" he asked. "You may, but don't open it." Bill was released from his high NEVER WISH FOR THE MOON chair. He followed along, his footsteps uncertain. Nell looked up from her magazine and waved. By the time the sticks were cut, Ricky had lost interest and disappeared through the hedge, and Lorna could see him talking to Nell, who, it seemed, had finished her reading and was simply sitting. What a pity to waste so much precious time, Lorna thought. Once back in the house, she put Bill in his play pen. She counted the paper windmills Ricky had cut. There were fourteen. She hastily cut eight more. OW to the housecleaning! 'Two hours later she sat down to recapitulate. Roast almost cooked in the electric roaster (she'd add potatoes and turn it on low again before she went to Primary). There'd be the table to set. Iced tomato juice would be served in the living room. While this was being consumed Lorna could put the hot foods in serving dishes. She called Ricky, and by threethirty they were ready to go to Primary. Nellie's boys knocked on the kitchen door. Behind them stood a smiling Hilda. "Mrs. Brooks is resting. I'm to keep the baby until she wakes up." She must have noticed Lorna's look of concern, for she added, "Don't worry, Mrs. Lindee, I've had lots of experience with babies." "Tm sure you have," Lorna assured her, yet that let-down feeling persisted. "Resting from what?" she asked herself. She shooed her little flock out to the garage, and carefully backed her car out, head- 93 ed it in the direction of the Martin home. Her class listened attentively while she gave the lesson, with the exception of one or two children. Then, she asked Gregory Hall to give the closing prayer, and was astonished all over again at the sureness of these five-year-olds. But that was part of the strength of the Church, she told herself, building character from babyhood. Time for the day's activity! 'I'wenty-two eager beavers, Lorna thought as she directed them. 'Their enthusiasm was boundless. Sister Lambert stopped Lorna on the way out. "We need new teachers. Do you have any names to submit to the bishopric?" Nell, Lorna thought. Nell should surely be glad to fill in some of her empty hours teaching a class. "Yes," Lorna answered, neighbor, Nell Brooks." Sister Lambert seemed surprised. "I don't know, Lorna, she's turned down requests to work on dinner or luncheon committees, without any explanation—I don't know." "She isn't at all busy," Lorna explained. "I''ll feel her out on the subject," she volunteered. "Well, all nght," Sister Lambert assented, doubtfully. Lorna delivered the Martin girls, drove home and into her own garage. Nell had young Bill in tow, and seemed to be enjoying his company immensely. She thoroughly loved children, all children, Lorna felt sure. It wouldn't take much courage to ask her to be a Primary teacher. She wasn't as unapproachable as people thought. Nell came through the hedge, f9 ny 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 relinquished Bill, and took her two in charge. "Nell," Lorna began, "'the Primary needs teachers. Would you.?" "I'm sorry — I couldn't possibly." Nell avoided looking at Lorna. "The doctor is taking us out to dinner. Pll have to rush. Thanks for taking the boys." She was gone! ORNA could have wept then and there. She had been wrong about Nell, after all. She was completely remote and untouchable, doing only the things she wanted to do — shirking, yes, shirking her duties. Lorna felt awfully tired. She hurried into the house and checked her roaster. Something had gone wrong — the meat wasn't more than half cooked, and only an hour until her guests would arrive. She lighted her gas oven, frantically grabbed a long fork, and lifted the roast to transfer it to another roaster. It plopped back into the grease and splattered her dress. "Steady, girl," she told herself, as she reached for the big apron that hung on a hook beside the refrigerator. "You won't make it this way. Bill had started to cry. "See if you can quiet your brother," she told Ricky. He tried, but the baby's screams only grew more piercing. Lorna looked at him. He looked feverish. She felt his face, Oh, dear, she thought, I forgot it was his turn to cut another tooth. She hoped that was all it was. She gave him a cracker to chew on, and he quieted down. She'd take his temperature as soon as she had a few minutes free. Ricky was being an angel. "Thank goodness for that," she breathed. At six o'clock she took time to undress Bill. His temperature was one degree above normal. She could see the red spot on his gum where the new tooth was trying to break through. She rubbed it with her finger, and the baby seemed soothed. He wouldn't take the liver and vegetables she tried to feed him. Perhaps a bottle and to bed. 'The Larsens would have to view her cherub while he slept, she was afraid.