[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Birthday Congratulations]
EDITORIAL  99 
The  true  spirit  of  Valentine's  Day  fined  to  February  the  Fourteenth, 
is  one  of  warmth  and  loving  kind-  but  should  be  lavishly  given  through- 
ncss    which    may    leave    behind    a  out  the  year,  so  that  "I  Love  You 
tangible   expression,   be  it   ever   so  Truly"  and  "Be  My  Valentine"  will 
small,  so  that  the  rememberance  of  be  constantly  echoing  and  re-echo- 
the  occasion  will  linger  on.  ■      ^^  h^^.^s  made  warm  and  joyful. 
This  valentine  spirit  of  solicitude  MPS 
and  affirmation  should  not  be  con-  —     .      .     . 
ioirthday  (congratulations  to  J/tmi/   Ujrown  <JLy[nian 
Former  General  President  of  Relief  Society 
February  7,  1958 
TT  is  with  appreciation  and  much  affection  that  we  extend  birthday  con- 
gratulations to  Amy  Brown  Lyman,  former  general  president  of  Relief 
Society.  She  is  cherished  in  the  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church  as  one 
who  has  given  her  strength  and  her  time  to  the  building  of  the  world-wide 
sisterhood.  Her  many  years  of  service  and  leadership  have  been  devoted 
to  giving  inspiration  and  direction  to  the  many  phases  of  Relief  Society 
work.  Sister  Lyman  has  ever  emphasized  the  effectiveness  of  service  in 
the  lives  of  women,  and  the  blessed  continuity  of  Relief  Society  as  an 
organization  designed  to  direct  the  energies  of  women  into  channels  of 
personal  development  and  charity  and  helpfulness  to  those  in  need.  We 
would  say  of  Sister  Lyman,  she  is  among  us  as  ''one  that  serveth." 
Relief  Society  women  throughout  the  Church  extend  congratulations 
and  best  wishes  to  Sister  Lyman,  and  we  wish  her  much  happiness  for 
her  birthday. 
cJhis  (cyne   ^Juay 
Constance  Timbeihke 
Let  us  arise  to  greet  the  Sabbath  day 
With  grateful  liearts.    This  one  day  of  the  week 
Is  ours  to  have,  to  worship,  and  to  pray; 
Remembering  Clirist,  as  we  his  presenee  seek. 
What  love!  He  had  to  suffer  and  to  die! 
The  highest  priee  was  paid  for  you  and  me 
That  we  might  live,  our  bodies  not  to  lie 
Forever  dead,  but  raised  eternally. 
As  we  this  day  the  sacred  emblems  take, 
With  meekness  thus  renew  again  our  \ows 
To  stri\'e  to  live,  and  day  by  day  to  make 
Our  light  to  shine;  no  clouds  darken  our  brows; 
Until  the  dawn  of  perfect  joy  and  peace. 
To  do  his  will  our  labors  shall  not  cease.