[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Yost]
[The Gift and the Giver Frances C. Yost]

"Home already?" "Uhhuh," he agreed, and Lorna thought she detected a storm brewing. "You didn't quarrel with Jeffry or Ned?" Lorna asked. "Naw, there wasn't anything to do over there," he answered. "Want to help mother?" she asked. "What with?" Ricky had his father's measure of caution. "Cutting windmills for Primary." She hoped it sounded exciting to him. "Okay." She got some paper. She'd draw the patterns. For a five-year-old, Ricky was very expert at manipulating scissors if he had lines to follow. She could see through the kitchen window that Nell was reading a magazine in her hammock, a daily practice while her boys napped. "How can she content herself with being such a drone?" Lorna asked herself for the hundredth time. Going out to dinner several times a month with the doctor and the boys seemed to be her only recreation or change. Lorna caught herself up angrily. Was she criticizing Nell? Or was she envious of her carefree existence? Whichever it was, it would never do. "My hand's getting tired," Ricky complained. "All right, we'll go out and cut the sticks," Lorna answered. "May I carry the knife?" he asked. "You may, but don't open it." Bill was released from his high NEVER WISH FOR THE MOON chair. He followed along, his footsteps uncertain. Nell looked up from her magazine and waved. By the time the sticks were cut, Ricky had lost interest and disappeared through the hedge, and Lorna could see him talking to Nell, who, it seemed, had finished her reading and was simply sitting. What a pity to waste so much precious time, Lorna thought. Once back in the house, she put Bill in his play pen. She counted the paper windmills Ricky had cut. There were fourteen. She hastily cut eight more. OW to the housecleaning! 'Two hours later she sat down to recapitulate. Roast almost cooked in the electric roaster (she'd add potatoes and turn it on low again before she went to Primary). There'd be the table to set. Iced tomato juice would be served in the living room. While this was being consumed Lorna could put the hot foods in serving dishes. She called Ricky, and by threethirty they were ready to go to Primary. Nellie's boys knocked on the kitchen door. Behind them stood a smiling Hilda. "Mrs. Brooks is resting. I'm to keep the baby until she wakes up." She must have noticed Lorna's look of concern, for she added, "Don't worry, Mrs. Lindee, I've had lots of experience with babies." "Tm sure you have," Lorna assured her, yet that let-down feeling persisted. "Resting from what?" she asked herself. She shooed her little flock out to the garage, and carefully backed her car out, head- 93 ed it in the direction of the Martin home. Her class listened attentively while she gave the lesson, with the exception of one or two children. Then, she asked Gregory Hall to give the closing prayer, and was astonished all over again at the sureness of these five-year-olds. But that was part of the strength of the Church, she told herself, building character from babyhood. Time for the day's activity! 'I'wenty-two eager beavers, Lorna thought as she directed them. 'Their enthusiasm was boundless. Sister Lambert stopped Lorna on the way out. "We need new teachers. Do you have any names to submit to the bishopric?" Nell, Lorna thought. Nell should surely be glad to fill in some of her empty hours teaching a class. "Yes," Lorna answered, neighbor, Nell Brooks." Sister Lambert seemed surprised. "I don't know, Lorna, she's turned down requests to work on dinner or luncheon committees, without any explanation—I don't know." "She isn't at all busy," Lorna explained. "I''ll feel her out on the subject," she volunteered. "Well, all nght," Sister Lambert assented, doubtfully. Lorna delivered the Martin girls, drove home and into her own garage. Nell had young Bill in tow, and seemed to be enjoying his company immensely. She thoroughly loved children, all children, Lorna felt sure. It wouldn't take much courage to ask her to be a Primary teacher. She wasn't as unapproachable as people thought. Nell came through the hedge, f9 ny 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 relinquished Bill, and took her two in charge. "Nell," Lorna began, "'the Primary needs teachers. Would you.?" "I'm sorry — I couldn't possibly." Nell avoided looking at Lorna. "The doctor is taking us out to dinner. Pll have to rush. Thanks for taking the boys." She was gone! ORNA could have wept then and there. She had been wrong about Nell, after all. She was completely remote and untouchable, doing only the things she wanted to do — shirking, yes, shirking her duties. Lorna felt awfully tired. She hurried into the house and checked her roaster. Something had gone wrong — the meat wasn't more than half cooked, and only an hour until her guests would arrive. She lighted her gas oven, frantically grabbed a long fork, and lifted the roast to transfer it to another roaster. It plopped back into the grease and splattered her dress. "Steady, girl," she told herself, as she reached for the big apron that hung on a hook beside the refrigerator. "You won't make it this way. Bill had started to cry. "See if you can quiet your brother," she told Ricky. He tried, but the baby's screams only grew more piercing. Lorna looked at him. He looked feverish. She felt his face, Oh, dear, she thought, I forgot it was his turn to cut another tooth. She hoped that was all it was. She gave him a cracker to chew on, and he quieted down. She'd take his temperature as soon as she had a few minutes free. Ricky was being an angel. "Thank goodness for that," she breathed. At six o'clock she took time to undress Bill. His temperature was one degree above normal. She could see the red spot on his gum where the new tooth was trying to break through. She rubbed it with her finger, and the baby seemed soothed. He wouldn't take the liver and vegetables she tried to feed him. Perhaps a bottle and to bed. 'The Larsens would have to view her cherub while he slept, she was afraid. Lorna put Bill to bed and came back into the kitchen. Her angel child was at the sink on a chair, contentedly pouring the can of peas she'd opened for dinner down the disposal. She heard the front door open and voices in the entrance hall. Bill came into the kitchen. "Take your apron off and come in and meet the Larsens." Lorna took off the apron and met the Larsens. It was only when she got back to the kitchen that she remembered the grease spots on her dress. She took an apron out of the kitchen drawer, a company apron, with frills. 'There'd be no time to change or cover up the redness of her face with fresh makeup. From that time on she was in a daze, doing the things she knew she had to do, answering questions, joining in the conversation, supplying Ricky's wants. She could feel a band tightening around her forehead and wondered if she was going to have one of those frustrating headaches. She hoped the roast was done sufficiently. It seemed a little rare. NEVER WISH FOR THE MOON HE dinner was half over before Lorna began to feel less tense. "T understand you have some old neighbors of ours living in town now," Mr. Larsen was saying. "Yes," Mrs. Larsen said, "we did so want to see them, had time permitted." "Dr. And Mrs. Brooks," Mr. Larsen put in. "Maybe you know them." "Our next-door neighbors," Bill said. "Oh, really? Then you know what a lovely person Nell Brooks is," Mrs. Larsen said, turning to Lorna. "Tell me, has her health improved? She was so active in Church and civic affairs before she took sick, and I understood it would be some time before she completely recovered." Nell Brooks ill! 'The whole house seemed' to clatter down about Lorna's ears. Why, she couldn't possibly be—she was so cheerful and uncomplaining. Lorna's eyes met Bill's. "Is something wrong?" Mrs. Larsen asked. "Wrong?" Lorna wanted to shout it. She felt her cheeks burning. "We didn't know Nell was in poor health," she admitted. "She has never said anything...." "No, she wouldn't," Mrs. Larsen agreed, thoughtfully. "Probably doesn't want anyone making a fuss over her or feeling sorry. Nell is that kind of person. Perhaps I shouldn't have said anything...." She looked stricken. "It's all right," Bill assured her. "It will go no further, but I think Lorna should know." Dear, wise Bill, Lorna thought. Of course I should know — should 95 have known without being told that Nell wouldn't willingly be a drone. But I'll make it up to her for everything I've been thinking—somehow. "Best dinner I've ever eaten," Mr. Larsen declared heartily, as they bade Lorna and Bill goodbye. '"That pie was delicious." "It was a lovely evening," Mrs. Larsen said. "How do you manage things so smoothly, all alone?" "Oh, I just muddle along,' Lorna laughed, "but, thank you. It was so nice to have you." Goodbyes were said. Bull would drive them to the airport. *k ok ok ok ok SONTTERE will be no dishwashing tonight," Lorna promised herself, as the door closed on Bill and the visitors. She turned the lamps low and let the moonlight flood the living room. Soon Bill came in. "Hi," he said, and sat down at his desk. He always had work to finish up. His papers rustled in the stillness of the night. Lorna thought of her heavy work schedule for tomorrow. "Never wish for the moon," she said softly. "No, my girl, never," Bill agreed, "one of these days you may get it." "True," Lorna answered, "and I'm afraid I wouldn't know what to do with it. In fact, I'm quite certain of it." She couldn't wait for tomorrow to begin, with its tasks and the blessings they brought. She'd start the day by doing something especially nice for Nell. 'There were so many things she could do for Nell, by way of a silent apology for the thoughts she'd had. She started counting them over. It made quite a list. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL ENTERTAINMENT: The George Washington Memorial entertainment on Saturday evening, February 19, was a great success. The entertainment was given at Major and Mrs. Downey's residence, 808 East, First South. 'The house is admirably adapted for entertaining, spacious halls and rooms large and connected with folding doors. The decorations were simply superb and one could not help feeling the enthusiasm that comes from flags, stars and stripes, banners, and martial music.... Some of the ladies of the committee were in the costumes of 1776 — with powdered hair, feathers, high combs, and rare old laces. —News Note WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY Arise — 'tis the day of our Washington's glory, The garlands uplift for our liberties won; Forever let Time tell the patriot's story Whose sword swept for freedom the fields of the sun —Selected REPORT FROM LAIE, OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS: I am pleased to say that the work is progressing nicely, and I think our association will compare favorably with others. We find among the Hawaiian sisters many faithful and energetic workers. They take great interest in learning of things pertaining to the gospel and I have known some of them to walk from three to eight miles to attend meeting.... At present there are twenty-eight branches, and as a rule meetings are held weekly.... Once in six weeks I send some of the leading sisters to the other islands to visit them in their conferences, and I hope that we missionary sisters may be able to visit all the branches on the islands in the near future. —Alice R. Woolley MOTTO: The more we live for self the less we shall find the value of existence; the more we live for others and out of self, the greater will be the joy and satisfaction of living. —Selected A POET'S EVENING: On the evening of Friday, January 21, a number of old-time friends of Sister Eliza R. Snow, the sublime and eminent leader among the women of Zion, kept her birthday anniversary at the home of the writer. There were about forty of the sisters present, among whom were the venerable women Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne and Bathsheba W. Smith and others not so far advanced in life. These three mothers in Israel were members of the first organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and had always been closely associated with "Sister Eliza." Many of the ladies present read choice selections from her favorite poem of the esteemed and revered poetess. The memory of the beloved "elect lady" was fresh and tender in the minds of all present. Her writings, her teachings, her travels at home and abroad, her labors among the people and in the Temple were all remarked upon in the general conversation. —Emmeline B. Wells Page 96 MP: TAI YOUNG LEE-CHYUNG is the first and at present the only woman lawyer in Korea. Along with two male Korean lawyers, she was recently a grantee in the Specialist 'Training Program sponsored by the United States Department of State. She attended lectures on American law at Southern Methodist University, in Dallas, 'Texas, and_ traveled throughout the country learning about our laws. Mrs. Lee-Chyung is especially interested in the legal status of women and children and in learning about our juvenile courts. She established and personally finances the Korean Legal Center for Women in Seoul, which is training other women lawyers. ONNA HILL, literature leader in the Manhattan Ward Relief Society, New York City, has written and illustrated a picture book about Spain for children from ages three to eight. It is titled Not One More Day (Viking Press), and is listed by the New York Times Book Review Section (November 17, 1957) in "One Hundred Outstanding New Books for the Younger Reader." Donna Hill read her story and showed slides of her book at the "Explore the World in Books" festival held during Book Week at the World Affairs Center in New York City.