[Vol45 | February 1958 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: Scissor | Author: Jones]
[Scissor Happy Helen H. Jones]
108  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1958 
who  was  the  original  giver,  as  Moth-  bhie  and  pink  plaid  dress  that  had 
er  had  explained  while  they  were  sort  of  introduced  them.    Perhaps 
making    the    dress.    Aunt    Mattie  if  Aunt  Mattie  had  had  a  dress  like 
would  be  happy  to  know  about  Bob  this,  when  she  was  young,  things 
Southerly.      She  would   write   and  just  might  have  been  different  for 
tell  her  about  him,  and  about  the  her,  too. 
Scissor  aiappii 
Helen  H.  Jones 
TODAY,  yesterday,  and  the  day  before  that  my  husband  and  a  young  German  refugee 
called  Gogee  (really  Gotfried)  have  been  scissor-happy  in  our  garden.  Though 
they  can't  understand  each  other's  language,  they  agree  in  this:  everything  must  go, 
everything  must  be  pruned,  and  the  closer  the  better. 
"Cut,"  says  my  husband,  moving  two  fingers  to  imitate  scissors.  Then,  with  a 
sweeping  gesture  of  his  slender  school-teacher  hands,  "No  good.    Must  go." 
Gogee  nods.     "'I  know,  I  know." 
Several  times  I've  wanted  to  rush  out  and  put  up  a  battle  for  my  blooming 
geraniums,  the  verbena  still  in  flower.  I  don't  because  I  know,  much  as  I  hate  to  admit 
it,  that  what  they  are  doing  to  the  garden  will  be  for  the  best  in  the  long  run. 
In  the  long  run.  One  of  the  abilities  that  God  gave  us  when  he  created  us  in 
his  image  was  the  ability  to  see  ahead,  the  vision  to  do  today  what  will  be  best  for  us 
tomorrow. 
Those  two  men  outside — my  husband  looking  through  bifocals,  slightly  bald, 
slightly  round-shouldered  from  bending  over  interminable  compositions  that  are  always 
piled  before  the  teacher  of  English,  and  Gogee,  seventeen,  with  his  shock  of  flax-like 
hair,  clear  blue  eyes,  work-hardened  hands,  and  youthful  strength — share  the  same  wis- 
dom. 
It  is  good  to  be  scissor-happy  when  we  are  cutting  away  the  old  and  useless  to 
make  room  for  the  growth  of  the  new  and  beautiful,  though,  at  the  moment,  things 
as  they  are  may  seem  desirable. 
c/o  a   Cyhiid  Lrusmng  a   ^JjoU-f^arnage 
Ida  Elaine  James 
With  what  proprietary  airs 
You  push  your  precious  burden,  child! 
A  certain  understanding  tears 
At  memory's  heartstrings  ...  so  I  smiled 
Into  your  lifted  eyes  a  second 
As  my  thoughts  raced  backward  .  .  .  far. 
Where  sweet  possessive  hours  unreckoned 
Flew  like  a  tune's  unmeasured  bar. 
Fleetingly,  my  heart  rejoiced 
In  young  and  tender  motherhood 
For  you;  in  whispers  my  heart  voiced: 
"You  can  keep  her  as  you  would, 
To  love  —  smile  on,  for  this  is  good."

Vlye  Jxre  Jxll  Ji^like — Ujut   ^Jjifferent 
EJsie  C.  Carroll 
"I  can't  believe  it!  It  can't  be  true!" 
Those  words  were  sobbed  by  a  mother  whose  son  had  confessed  his  guilt  to  a 
serious  crime.     She  thought  she  knew  her  son.     But  in  a  way  he  was  a  stranger  to  her. 
Recently  another  mother,  proud  and  happy,  \\hen  she  learned  that  her  daughter 
had  won  a  great  honor,  exclaimed,  "It  was  a  complete  surprise  to  us  all.  We  didn't 
even  know  she  v\as  tr\'ing  for  the  award." 
Hearing  of  these  opposite  statements  recalled  to  my  mind  lines  of  a  little  Japanese 
poem: 
The  white  iris  and  the  purple  iris 
Grow  side  by  side  in  the  pond, 
Yet  never  open  their  hearts 
To  each  other. 
Even  though  it  is  true  that  "No  man  is  an  island,"  and  all  our  lives  are  inter- 
twined with  many  other  li\es — in  fact,  as  John  Donne  says  in  "For  Whom  the  Bell 
Tolls,"  with  a]]  other  lives — there  are  closed  chambers  in  our  hearts  into  which  no  one, 
however  dear,  enters. 
Often  we  are  amazed  to  discover  how  little  we  really  know  about  the  people  we 
think  we  know  the  best. 
A  mother  who  watches  her  baby  develop  day  by  day  from  the  time  it  is  placed 
in  her  arms  a  helpless  little  mite,  naturally  feels  for  a  time  that  she  knows  her  child, 
that  she  understands  its  every  thought  and  emotion.  But  this  is  not  for  long.  Sooner 
or  later  every  mother  has  the  experience  of  the  one  who  heard  her  child  tell  his  sister, 
"Patty  has  gone  inside  herself  and  closed  the  door  and  pulled  down  the  shades." 
Perhaps  it  isn't  that  Patty  wants  to  shut  her  mother  out.  We  all  must  live 
much  of  our  intellectual,  emotional,  and  spiritual  experiences  relatively  alone,  no  mat- 
ter how  much  we  would  like  to  share  them  completely  with  loved  ones.  But  we  are 
doomed  to  varying  degrees  of  isolation  no  matter  how  many  relatives  and  friends  sur- 
round us.  I  know  a  child  who  runs  to  her  mother  once  in  a  while  saying,  "Mama, 
let  me  sit  on  your  lap.  I  feel  alone."  She  can't  explain  just  what  this  feeling  is,  but 
she  doesn't  like  it,  and  it  takes  some  time  for  the  mother's  reassurance  to  relieve  her 
of  the  discomforting  sensation. 
Parents  sometimes  forget  that  children  inherit  a  complex  heritage.  If  they  could 
remember  this,  they  could  better  understand  tendencies  in  their  offspring  entirely  dif- 
ferent to  any  of  their  own,  and,  perhaps,  have  more  sympathy  when  things  that  seem 
insignificant  to  themselves  have  tremendous  importance  to  their  children. 
We  may  be  surprised  when  neighbor  Jones  begins  to  spend  money  she  has  saved 
from  selling  butter  and  eggs,  not  for  better  clothes,  nor  new  rugs  and  drapes  for 
her  shabby  home,  but  for  violin  lessons.  Or  when  nephew  Tom,  upon  graduation, 
refuses  the  partnership  in  his  father's  business  and  works  his  way  to  Europe  on  a 
freighter  to  see  the  great  art  galleries  of  the  world. 
But  we  shouldn't  be  surprised.  It  is  this  aioneness  part  of  us  that  makes  us  indi- 
viduals. 
I  once  heard  an  eminent  speaker  pay  a  beautiful  tribute  to  his  wife.  He  said: 
"When  I  looked  at  our  firstborn  little  daughter  the  wish  that  filled  my  heart  was  that 
she  could  be  just  exactly  like  her  mother.  But,  on  further  thought,  I  realized  the  im- 
possibility of  such  a  thing,  and  that,  if  my  wish  could  be  granted,  this  little  newcomer 
to  our  world  would  be  deprived  of  the  most  precious  gift  to  which  life  entitles  each  of 
us,  individuality." 
Perhaps  if  we  would  think  a  little  more  about  this  fact — that  each  of  us  is  an 
individual,  each  different  from  all  others,  we  could  sometimes  be  more  understanding, 
more  tolerant. 
Page  109