EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -------- SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager ------ JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager ------ AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29. Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII MARCH, 1920 No. 3 The Discipline Of Obedience Who that is born of woman fails to learn, some day, sometime, the lesson of obedience, obedience to a stronger, if not higher will? Obedience to conditions, circumstances and to law. Happy the child who receives this knowledge so early that after-years bring nothing more than a clear knowledge of why we must obey persons, laws, and authority;  who has learned the early lesson and whose discipline of obedience was drilled into his inner consciousness, wisely and kindly in early youth. Blessed the man who learns early to subdue his own will without allowing people or conditions to break his spirit and to destroy his usefulness by sickly self-pity and corroding discouragement. Obedience to civil law, we all understand and recognize as necessary and right. That is, we usually obey the laws of the land which provide penalties for those who steal, commit forgery, or trespass upon their neighbors' civil rights. Yet the subtler rights of social intercourse we all break with impunity. And it is just here where we need to discipline ourselves severely, rendering justice, mercy and loyalty to our associates and to all members of society. If we are big enough and wise enough to apply our own discipline, great and glorious will be our personal results. But if we resent the disci- 
 pline and become a social law unto ourselves, we must pay our price in our own character-failure, and in the unhappiness we suffer and cause others to endure. The discipline of obedience was refused by Lucifer, and we all know the result. But we good women justify ourselves in our minor disobediences to the laws of society and religion by refusing to take the counsel of our fathers, our husbands, or our leaders in the Relief Society, in the ward or the stake, on various pretexts. Our favorite excuse is that so-and-so does the same;  then why can't we? The foundation principle of this gospel and of the whole universe is obedience to law and to authority. Whenever we refuse to obey law or authority we are in danger. In these days of restless questioning of all authority, it is well to focus our thoughts on the fundamental principle of obedience to the authority of the priesthood. Not because we are forced, nor even coerced to do so. But because we want to be obedient. It was the Priesthood — always remember that — as exercised by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and by his successors, who have been inspired, that opened the agelong door of repression and oppression for woman, and that, too, without pressure or demand on the part of any woman or set of women. Freely have our rights and privileges been given to us, and freely do we enjoy them. Moreover, we share equally in all the keys, gifts, and blessings of the Priesthood and in the glories and powers of the celestial kingdom. We must render obedience, however, to the laws of the celestial kingdom just as men do. Men can't whip us, nor rob us of our earnings, nor of our children. And as they have held those powers over us for centuries, they, too, have sacrificed somewhat in this newer adjustment of the social laws. However, all truth, law, and obedience to law, rest squarely on that other divine principle, our free agency, our will, our right of choice. So, go to it, sisters;  just put the thumb screws of obedience to law and to persons on yourself. Determine to beat your enemy to it, in the matter of disciplining your own will. Be the captain of your soul, not the slave of your impulses or your undisciplined desires. The very hardest lesson you will ever have to learn is to be obedient to inferior intelligence, to render kindly obedience to one holding authority over you who may appear to be selfish, unsympathetic or perhaps envious. But take another hitch in your mental belt, and offer that obedience willingly and graciously. Be obedient because you want to be so, not because some one threatens or demands that obedience. Then you can control the situation and not be crushed by it. Get all the pure gold you can out of the crushing process, and don't follow the example of some highly gifted but undisciplined men and women who, when crossed in their will, sink into insignificance or follow all kinds of will-o'-the-wisp trails where discipline is unknown and authority is not. Don't be a quitter. Harness your will, drive it along the disciplined road of righteous law and divine authority. THE EDELWEIS. (A Sonnet.) O. F. Ursenbach. In Alpine heights, near the eternal snow, I plucked an edelweiss, long years ago;  The tiny flower of moss-like, grayish hue, As time rolled on, kept ever bright and new;  Until today, its petals, full and rare. Seem just as fresh as when I plucked it there. In ecstasy, I pause and wonder still;  This How great insignia it remains of the Master's as God blossom will;  made. As through the fleeting years, it does not fade. He who, in life's late day, is blanched with age. Allows his mental energy to fade, Could well afford, though near the sun-set hour. To profit by this little Alpine flower. A PRAYER. Martha B. Cooley. O, Father, kind, make me more humble More worthy thy blessing and love;  That I may e'er bask in the sunshine Of thy wondrous glory above. Thou knowest my heart and my weakness. The struggle that ever is mine. As I strive to rise above error, With perfection my goal, my shrine: Give me strength and wisdom so needed. Increased faith and charity, too. With patience and love in abundance;  Keep my soul ever faithful and true: Yes, true to my friends and my dear ones, And true to myself and my God;  My motto e'er onward and upward. My hand firmly grasping thy road. Guide Lessons