[Vol10 | February 1923 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: How Close Are You to Your Daughter]

How Close Are You to Your Daughter?

Clarissa A. Beesley

A beautiful young girl was about to be married. She had been reared in an apparently ideal Latter-day Saint home. They were people of culture; her father was a physician. But she came to a Mutual officer and asked a number of personal questions relative to her duties as a wife, and after receiving some kind, wise instruction, she made the statement: "My mother has never once spoken to me of these things."

How close are you to your daughter? Do you have her confidence as you had it when she was a tiny girl, playing with her dolls? You showered on her then an abundance of mother-love; many were the kisses and caresses you gave her. The few moments when you left in your other duties to tuck her away in her little bed were most precious. And she, the baby daughter, loved you with all her baby heart, looked upon you as her closest comrade and told you all her little troubles and all her little secrets.

Has there ever been a change in your relationship? You still love her with equal fervor, perhaps even with a deeper love, for you have watched her unfold into lovely maidenhood. And she still loves you. But is there the same close sympathy? Has there been anywhere along the line of years a time when the goodnight kiss ceased or when you were perhaps too busy to listen or encourage her to confide in you? Happy are you as her mother if your daughter still comes to you with all her hopes and her problems and if you are still her best chum and confidante.

It is an art to grow old gracefully. It is more of an art to keep youthful in spirit as the seasons come and go, youthful enough to retain the viewpoint of youth, to have a real understanding of its desires and hopes and a sympathy for its instabilities. If you can be a girl with your girl, can enter with her into her world of romance, even into some of her frivolities, can be interested in the things she likes to do and do some of them with her, then you are giving her more than if you could provide her with all the wealth of the world.

The Y. L. M. I. A. stands ready to help you. It has many fields of activity. In addition to the class work and special religious programs, other lines of interest have been introduced, arts, dramatics, debating, music, public speaking. The organization also endeavors to supervise carefully the recreation of its members. But these are only a means to an end. Its fundamental aim, as outlined by President Young, is to develop in the hearts of the young women of Zion an abiding faith in and love for the gospel of Jesus Christ, a testimony of its divinity and a willingness to render service to the Church. Its object is to make our girls pure, high-minded women—worthy successors to their mothers, who have been such a glorious strength to the Church. And in this great task we seek always the cooperation of our mothers.

An auxiliary organization cannot take the place of the home. We have tried to teach the girls modesty and propriety in dress but sometimes our efforts have seemed fruitless and we have been forced to ask the question: Are the mothers of these girls setting them an example in this regard, or is it true that the older women of the Church are sometimes neglectful and indifferent? We are endeavoring to implant in their hearts a desire to be married in the House of the Lord. But sometimes we must again ask the question: Do the mothers of these girls instil within their hearts a desire for this sacred ordinance? Is the atmosphere of the home such that the girl grows up with a longing in her heart to receive her communion by the authority of the Priesthood in the Lord's appointed way? Is there constantly held before her in the home a picture of the day when she shall be happy to dress and otherwise conform her life to the teachings she shall receive there?

Many are the evils which are menacing our young people. Terrible waves of sin are sweeping over the earth, well nigh engulfing the nations. And the effects are being felt even among the sons and daughters of the Latter-day Saints. With all earnestness the Mutual officers are endeavoring to counteract these conditions. Our slogan, "We stand for a pure life through clean thought and action," is ringing in the ears of our boys and girls from one end of the Church to the other. We must make it a vital thing in their lives. Everywhere we are pleading with them to keep their bodies clean, to secure sufficient sleep, to think clean thoughts, to return home early from their amusements, to listen to the teachings of their parents, and to seek the Lord in earnest prayer for his protection. We believe that the one regulation of early hours would go far to solve this problem and prevent many possible dangers.

A feature introduced into the Mutual Improvement work recently is a "Mothers and Daughters' Day." As the name implies, the object in view is to bring into closer bonds of sympathy and unity mothers and their daughters. During the past summer many stakes have held such a gathering and are enthusiastic over its success, so that the future promises much for this event. On this day the mother will throw aside her cares and become a girl again. She will get the spirit of girlhood and will feel again the joy of being a real pal and real friend to her daughter. And the daughter will respond, and closer will be cemented the ties between them.

Again, the Y. L. M. I. A. stands ready to help you, the splendid mothers of this Church, in guiding with tender solicitude and love the precious daughters committed to your care.