[Vol10 | February 1923 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Teachers Topic for April - The Fly Evil]

TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL THE FLY EVIL Prevention is better than cure. To nurse the sick, in case of need, and to help restore them to health has always been regarded as a duty of the Relief Society. Is it not well, also, to prevent sickness and thus save economic loss, suffering, and possible death? The house fly is a great carrier of disease germs. Its legs are covered with filth, some of which is deposited on everything the fly touches. It should never be tolerated in the house, or in contact with food anywhere. It is said by biologists that a very few flies appearing in the springtime will produce millions before the end of summer. It is, therefore, very important to destroy these early flies as fast as they appear. Have all windows and doors well screened. Destroy breeding places for flies. By these means some individuals may be saved from typhoid and possibly other diseases; all may be saved the unpleasant experience of eating fly contaminated food. Too much cannot be seid to impress upon the minds of the people the absolute necessity of trying to exterminate this unnecessary but very prevalent evil. Note: In speaking of teachers' districts it is urged that Relief Society women avoid using "teachers' beat." The term is indefinite and undignified and should not be used in connection with Relief Society teaching. It is preferred that the women use "teachers' district," when referring to their territory. To Our Patrons and Friends To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relicf Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying,. "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender.