[Vol10 | February 1923 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Annual Day]

Relief Society Annual Day
The approach of the Seventeenth of March calls to our minds the organization of our beloved Society. This is an anniversary which will be celebrated throughout the world wherever the Relief Society is organized. It is suggested that this day be observed in such a manner that each individual member will appreciate the privilege of being a part of this great body, and will feel inspired to pledge anew, with greater devotion and diligence, her allegiance to the Relief Society cause.
It should be a day of rejoicing, a real home coming, when all members of the organization, both old and young, join together in thanksgiving and praise to our heavenly Father. Reunions and socials in which all take part are always in order. Where reunions are held they may be either ward or stake affairs. Where it is made a stake affair, the stake may especially entertain the various ward workers, or vice versa. Where it is a ward affair it may be for Relief Society workers only, or it may include all ward members. Cooperation with the Priesthood may promote a very happy occasion.
Retired officers, oldest members in point of age or membership, or any other persons the Society would care to honor, may be
RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL DAY 63
special guests at the affair. Since every Latter-day Saint woman should be a member of our organization, this day is a fitting time to arouse interest in Relief Society work. In addition to a general invitation, a special invitation might be given to every woman in the ward. If necessary, a special committee might be appointed to work out some distinctive manner of extending the invitation. This would add a delightful personal touch to the occasion.
Where a program is given it should be short and interesting and entirely in keeping with the occasion. Local Relief Society talent should be used as much as possible. Interspersed with suitable musical numbers, short biographical sketches of the six general presidents might be given; or short talks on such topics as "Organization of the Relief Society," "Why the Relief Society was Organized," "What the Relief Society Means to Me" and "Being True to Our Ideals." A literary and musical program featuring our own authors and composers is another suggestion.
If games are played, those who do not care to join should not be urged unduly to take part. The games should be in keeping with the dignity of the occasion. It is felt that games, dances, pageants, etc., should not be used to the exclusion of informal friendly conversation and general sociability. Refreshments are very acceptable, adding to the enjoyment of the occasion. They may be simple or more elaborate according to the desire of the association.
These few suggestions are offered only to show what might be done. Each organization possesses enough talent to plan and carry out successfully a celebration of its own, which will make the Seventeenth of March stand out as the social event of the Relief Society work of the year.
References—"First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo" March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims, and Brief History of Relief Society," March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents," March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketch of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Magazine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization," March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668. For suggestive programs, see back March numbers of Relief Society Magazine.