[Vol10 | February 1923 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Little Mother Annie D. Palmer]

Little Mother
Minnie D. Palmer
It happened—the amassing and culminating and outburst of it—between the hours of nine and twelve on a sunshiny morning in early spring. It might have happened on almost any other morning in the several weeks just passed, for Mrs. Burton was not physically at her best, and the cares of her household had settled down heavily on her shoulders.
At nine o'clock there came a note inviting her to join a party of ladies who had hired a big "white-top" from the livery stable and were going right after dinner to the watercress swamp for a jolly outing. A few minutes later there was a telephone call to ask if she would attend the meeting of the Shakespeare Club at two. The subject under discussion was, "Masterpieces of Art," and Mrs. Neff would read one or two masterpieces of literature.
While she was answering the telephone her sister Mame Lee came in, and heard the last part of her reason for not accepting.
"I'm glad you excused yourself, Mima," Mrs. Lee began when she had a chance to speak. "A crowd of us are arranging to surprise Mrs. Harvey this afternoon in her new home. Just a select few, you know, who can have a real good time together. You are to furnish a dozen sandwiches and meet us—"
"Mame, please don't say meet or go or anything synonymous with either of those words!" Mima sank back into a chair and almost savagely attacked the buttonhole work she had just laid down.
"Why, sister dear, what's the matter? You look as if a cyclone is coming."
"The cyclone has come, Mame! And it has piled up so much work on me that I shall never be able to extricate myself, never!"
"To all intents and purposes, then, you are buried already," laughed her sister.
"Yes, and I might as well be dead, so far as any one outside my own family is concerned. Don't laugh at me, Mame. I just can't be laughed at."
"You are discouraged this morning, sister."
"Discouraged? That doesn't half express it. I am completely overwhelmed with the work and the responsibility that is my lot. The weight of it is crushing me. You think you have a lot to do taking care of two little 'kiddies.' What would you do with eight. Talk about going out. I love to go out as much as any one does; but it's impossible. I'm so tired and worn that I can't


even go to meeting on Sunday. I have no time to read. I hardly have time for a comfortable thought. If I had my life to live over, I should spend at least thirty years of it in joyous spinsterhood, before settling down to washing dishes and mending pinafores."
"Mima, don't talk that way. One would think you do not love your family!"
"Well, I don't believe any one can even love as devotedly as she ought, when she is so overworked and so hurried she can't properly express her love!"
There was a bitterness in the tone that Mrs. Lee had never heard from her sister before; but she knew too much of the service the little mother was giving to her family to give much heed to the words spoken under the impulse of a weary discontent.
"I really must go home and make my cake for the party," she said, turning to go. "Better make up your mind to join us. You'll work better after the fun."
Mima took up her baby and rocked him to sleep. While she rocked she sewed the buttons on the little frock, and tried to look ahead to a possible time when she might have a half-day off for recreation; but she could not see far into the future for the mist that dimmed her eyes. Close at hand she saw a heap of stockings to be darned, a big basket of clothes to be ironed, blouses buttonless and out at elbows, rooms disordered, little folks unwashed and unkempt. Everywhere something was waiting for her weary hands to do.
She had just laid the baby in his crib when the postman handed her a letter. That was the "last straw that broke the camel's back." The letter was from her sister Sophy, away off in Oregon. Sophy's husband would be away from home nearly all summer. Sophy would be alone and insisted that Mima bring two or three of the smaller children and come for a long visit.
"This is the devil's own morning," she said to herself as she threw the letter across the room; "and every earthly friend I have seems to be in league with him. Of course I can't go, and Sophy should have known it. Easy matter for her with only herself and Fred to do for; but I'd like to see how many visits she'd make if she had eight babies!"
"Ahem!" Mima turned and saw her husband smiling in the doorway. He put his arms tenderly around her, kissed the tear-wet cheek she turned coldly toward him.
"And what is wrong, that my wife receives me like this? We must have her explain matters at once."
George spoke in his gentle way, but the very gentleness was galling. As if gentle words were a panacea for a world of discontent!
LITTLE MOTHER 67
"I just said to myself that this is the devil's day. You may read that letter," she said indicating by a toss of her head the direction in which she had thrown it.
"And is this all?" her husband asked when he had finished reading.
"No, it isn't exactly all?" She emphasized the all sarcastically. "But it is a fit climax to the series. The rest of it is weariness, discouragement, and heartache. I'm sick and tired of the drudgery of life." She dashed the tears from her eyes and tried to go on with her sewing.
George had only half realized the extent of it when Mame had told him a few minutes before about his wife's need of rest; but it had prepared him for what he now saw, and his tender heart at once reached a solution for the trouble.
"Come, come, dear," he said quietly, but firmly, "you must accept this invitation to visit Sophy. I want you to go. You have three hours till train time, so you can get off today as well as tomorrow."
"Why, George!" Mima spoke amid choking sobs. "I couldn't get the little ones washed and dressed by train time!"
"I'll take care of the little ones," was his quick reply. "I want you to go care free. I can hire Aunt Hannah for a month—"
"A month!" sobbed Mima. "You don't think I could be gone a month!"
"I shall certainly object to your coming home sooner."
Mima could not tell whether it was anger or sorrow that gave the earnest ring to his words, the serious look to his eyes; but it was impressive and that was what George intended. Her husband gave her no chance to argue the question, and two o'clock found Mrs. Burton comfortably seated in an almost empty coach waiting for the train to start. George had accompanied her to the station and seen her safely located. He had bought her ticket, a bright new magazine, and a box of chocolates. As he kissed her goodbye he had placed in her hand a couple of gold coins and whispered, "Buy something pretty to wear when you get to the city, so you will not feel shabby."
"Don't say a word," he insisted when she tried to remonstrate, "It's all right. I want you to get rested and have a good time. Don't worry about the children or me, and don't come home until I send for you. Good-bye, dear. I shall have to hurry now, and get things arranged at home so I can get to work."
Five days had passed since Mrs. Burton "dropped down" on her sister so unceremoniously. "Five days and nights," she said that morning when she and Sophy were washing the dishes. They had walked down town on sunny afternoons, and gone to picture


shows on moonlight nights; there had been car rides and picnics, and one real society affair with Sophy's club.
This afternoon the visitor was alone for the first time since her arrival. Sophy had gone to a committee meeting. "How quiet the place is," Mima thought soon after the gate clicked behind the departing Sophy. "How painfully quiet!" was the next thought a moment later—"and how lonesome."
She took up a book and tried to read. The clock ticked so loudly she wondered how Sophy could ever stand it. She laid the book aside. Then she noted how slowly the hands of the clock moved. Surely it must be later than half past two. She would take a nap. She went to the rear bedroom to lie down. A picture on the wall drew her attention. It was only a cheap print, but the subject—a young mother gazing fondly at her sleeping babe—touched her. She stood before it thinking, comparing. She wanted to go home. George might think her silly if she came soon, but he would welcome her. She knew Aunt Hannah would do her best with the children, but what if Bessie should get croup? She had not told Aunt Hannah what to do for it. Friday there would be water in the ditch that runs past the front gate. What if her baby should get in the ditch and drown? Annie had wanted to take off her underwear with long sleeves. What if Aunt Hannah should allow her to do so, and she should get pneumonia?
She lay down still thinking about her family, and when she fell into a fitful sleep she dreamed all kinds of trouble for her children. She was awakened by the sound of footsteps on the pavement, and arose to take a letter from the postman. It was from George. How she hoped he had written for her to come home! There was never a hint of it. The letter was full of kindness, of love. The children were well and Aunt Hannah was taking good care of them. All sent love and there were kisses which baby hands had written. Three times the little mother read the letter to see if in the lines or between them she might not read the least hint that she was to come home. Then she refolded the letter, dropped her head in her hand and wept. Sophie came and found her thus. "What is the matter, sister?" she asked, "Are you ill?" "No, I'm not ill," answered Mima, ''but I'm so miserable. Maybe you would call it homesickness and laugh at me. But I call it heartsickness, and it's no laughing matter with me." Sophy began to understand. "TI see," she said, "my home is too quiet for you. I must not leave you alone again." "Quiet " exclaimed Mima, "It's as silent as the grave—all but the horrid clock. Its ticking would wake the dead! Oh, Sophy, how do you ever stand it, this stillness, this awful, solemn. LITTLE MOTHER 69 ghostly, stillness? Why, that row of chairs has stood there ever since the day I came. Not one chair has changed place with its neighbor in the whole week! Those magazines have lain in the same corner; the pillows on the couch have never shifted their position; even that string of beads has not moved from one side of the window to the other." "Well, if that is all," said Sophy trying to laugh. "I shall move all the movables tomorrow, and sweep and dust—" "And put them all back to remain for another week," interrupted Mima. "How can you?" Sophy sighed, such a sad hopeless sigh that Mima wished she had not spoken. "God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb," quoted the childless sister. "When there is no help for a trial, the sanest thing to do is to stand it. I cannot understand, I cannot even begin to understand why the good Father has never sent any little ones to bless our home. I have cried to him in the anguish of my soul for this blessing that women all around me cast recklessly aside. I see little children on the streets everywhere, dirty, ragged, ill-mannered, almost wholly neglected; and I wonder why God let them come to parents who give them so little, when my heart is yearning to care for them so much! My life is a disappointment. I give to my husband companionship and love; but our home is lonely. And when we look into the future we realize that one of us at least, must go down into the dark valley alone!" Both the women were weeping now; Sophy with the great burden of her own sorrow, that most always she kept hidden; and Mima with sympathy for her sister and joy in the thought of her eight nestlings at home. "The Lord has something nobler for you to do," the latter - ventured by way of comfort. "Something nobler! What nobler thing is there for a woman to do than faithfully to discharge the duties of mother? I have done an immense lot of public work since I came to this town. You know the public always thinks it owns a woman who has no children, and so it made no end of demands upon me. There were lessons for Sunday School, lectures for clubs, talks for high school girls, papers for various conventions, committee work of a dozen kinds, private help for Mutual contests. I have been literally flooded with the kind of work a woman gives without thought of anything but the public good. When it is all said and done, which of all those for whom I have labored will hold my trembling hand or cool my fevered lips when I go fearfully down into the shades of death?" "Sister, dear—" "Two weeks ago I heard young Ernest Hart bear his testimony 
 in fast meeting. His words fairly thrilled me as he told how his mother had taught him the gospel, how he had prayed at her knee, how her life had inspired him. Could anything be nobler than to listen to words like those from a son? Why, I'd rather be the mother of a boy like that than to reign the proudest queen upon the earth. And, Mima," her voice dropped to a softer, tenderer tone, "I'd rather hear the prattle of eight little children, well in body and sound in intellect—eight bright-eyed _ little children that were mine—than to be accorded the applause of all the club women in the world!" Mima answered thoughtfully: '""Well, I think 1 would, too." That evening Mima wrote a postal card to her husband, in words about as follows: "Dear George,—I really won't stand it longer without you and the children. Send for me to come home right away, or I shall defy your last injunction, and be the first of our family to disobey you. It seems so long since I left home. I fear the baby will not know me when I return, Lovingly, "Mima." The answer came by return mail. It read: "Little Mother—We cheered and shouted when we read your card—so glad you want-to come home to us soon. You can't begin to imagine how we miss you. No one on earth can fill your place. Come at once. "GEORGE." PRESIDENT ELIOT ON PROHIBITON Evidence has accumulated on every hand that prohibition has promoted public health, public happiness, and industrial efficiency. This evidence comes from manufacturers, physicians, nurses of all sorts, school and factory, hospital and district, and from social workers of many races and religions laboring daily in a great variety of fields. These results are obtained in spite of imperfect enforcement. This testimony also demonstrates beyond a doubt that prohibition s, actually sapping the terrible force of disease, poverty, crime and vice.—President Charles W. Eliot, of Harvard Umversity.