[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Use and]

Work ITleeting—Home Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8—Use and Distribution of Income Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, May 12, 1953) 'HE effect of income is influ- "enced by the manner in which it is spent, as well as by the amount which is earned. 'This is the conclusion of those who have made widespread and repeated studies in the field. Women are credited with spending eighty-five per cent of the net cash earnings of their husbands. "How can I put the money I spend to most profitable use?" is a question to which homemakers have sought an answer for a long while. There is no one spending plan that is best for all families. Each family must decide on a plan that is in keeping with its goals in life. There is no substitute for thinking and planning together as a family group. Experiences and suggestions of others are often helpful. An aged, rich man, who had known poverty in his earlier years, gave the following bit of wisdom: "Man's wants will always exceed the size of his income, unless he protests to the contrary. Decide what you want out of life, then set up a spending plan that will enable you to get it," he added. Some families decide how much they can spend for each division of the family living expense, then regulate their spending accordingly. Others find it irksome to keep within set limits in their spending. A wife can be a good manager under either system, as long as she knows how much she is spending, makes wise choices of the things she buys, and gets her money's worth for what she spends.: To the mexperienced person this is not always easy. However, if you determine how much you can afford to spend, and then abide by it, this is a sure way of spending only as much as your income will allow without being overdrawn. Spending plans are highly recommended. Some values of them are: 

 —FEBRUARY 1953 1. They help to control expenditures. 2. They tell where your money is 'going and why. 3. They help to get more of the things you want by cutting out wasteful spending. 4. They help to provide for a more equitable distribution of family income among all family members. S. They eliminate, or at least minimize, wasteful spending. 6. They help one to match means and ends. 7. They insure more peace of mind and satisfaction for those who do the spending. To make a success of your spending plan, it is important that you: 1. Start simply. 2. Work out a system that suits your personal or family needs best. 3. Start a record-keeping system of all income and expenses. Then keep it until the habit is formed. 4. Control your spending plan by making adjustments whenever it seems wise to do so. The purpose of it is to suggest and guide but never to rule. While the spending plan of each family will differ, records kept by hundreds of average families of moderate incomes show their expenditures to be about as follows: Food 29%. This lowers as income increases or as more food is produced and prepared at home. When no food is produced, it may go as high as 50%. Clothing 15%. It may drop to 10% or 12% in low income groups, or when most of the sewing is done at home. It has been a fairly constant figure, however. Housing 17%. 'This should not exceed 20%. The general rule has been used, over many years, that a house should not cost more than twice the annual gross income. However, it is questionable whether that figure can be held to during these days of high costs of building materials and labor. House Operation 9%. 'The cost of comforts and luxuries above those normally enjoyed may raise this to 12 to 15%. All Other 23%. (Recreation, education, health, travel, church, etc.)