[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Readings in Review]

A iterature—The Literature of England Lesson 32—Readings in Romanticism—A Review Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson ) For Tuesday, May 19, 1953
Objective: To re-define the length and texture of the romantic strands, that fmally they might be bound together in a solid knot. ICH and various as it might be, the journey from Samuel Johnson to Matthew Arnold is also a long one. And just as anticipation whets realization, even so an easy, mellow remembering of what has been met and seen and felt, is not an inconsiderable value in itself. To LESSON DEPARTMENT be able to look back with satisfaction over a period of time or even a life well spent is equivalent to having lived twice, and the second seeing is not to be considered preponderantly inferior to the first one.
During our journey of the past two years we have met many writers whose friendship might well be renewed with pleasure. For strength, and a renewing, then, we turn back.
Before we do so, however, we should know that we are traveling on borrowed time and space, since originally this lesson was to be devoted to some minor romantic poets (text, pp. 296-315). But because within these pages there is what might seem a bewildering amplitude of poets and their works, it seemed wise to review familiar paths, rather than attempting to travel too far, and in too many directions, all at once. It might be fitting on our part, however, were we to express our gratitude for use of this space by at least acknowledging its original and excellent owners. Of our six hosts, the first we already know, because of his friendship with Wordsworth and Coleridge, and because Byron early saw that he was not a great poet, continually reminding Robert Southey and his audience of the fact. We might justly commend Mr.
Southey for his industry and for his bestknown poem "The Battle of Blenheim" (pp. 300-301), which with its rather morbid detail and ironical tone strongly attacks the futility of war.
Next to Byron, our second host Thomas Moore, was the most popular poet of his age.
When we 133 acknowledge him as author of three lyrics which are still universally known and loved, we can better understand his wide popularity in his own time. "The Harp That Once Through Tara's Halls" (page 03), "Tis the Last Rose of Summer" (page 303), and "Believe Me, If All Those Endearing Young Charms" (pp 303-304), have all been set to music, so compelling was the singing quality of Moore's words.
Recently we have met Leigh Hunt because of the inspiration and encouragement he gave the budding Keats.
While he has never since enjoyed the literary prestige he knew in his own day, two of his poems, "Abou Ben Adhem" (page 304) and "Rondeau" (Jenny Kissed Me, page 305) have endeared his name to Englishmen since his death.
While neither is a great poem, each endures on its own charm and merit. His own life made wretched by poverty, Thomas Hood cried out his protest against industrialized England in poetry.
Best known is his "Song of the Shirt," with its indictment,: It's Oh! To be a slave Along with the barbarous Turk, Where woman has never a soul to save, If this is Christian work.
Also worthy of our attention is his "Silence" (page 306, 1. 13-16) and "The Bridge of Sighs" (pp. 307-308) which asks pity rather than blame for a girl driven to suicide by poverty and the bleak indifference of London city life. Thomas Lovell Beddoes is best represented by three exquisite lyrics in our text: "Song" (How Many 
 —FEBRUARY 1953 A "Petty Picture POETS' CORNER, WESTMINSTER ABBEY, LONDON Times Do I Love Thee, Dear?) page 309, "Dirge" (If Thou Wilt Ease Thine Heart) page 309, and "Dream-Pedlary": If there were dreams to sell, What would you buy? (text, page 310, |. 1-2) Our hasty smile-nod procedure of greeting yields its bitterest fruits as we sketchily bypass the considerable worth of Walter Savage Landor (pp. 311-315). In his poems are found a beautiful symmetry of form, a chiseled exactness of diction and tone, which reveal a powerful blending of his classical and romantic elements. While his excellence is everywhere apparent, at least two of his best-known. Pieces must be quoted. Rose Aylmer Ah, what avails the sceptered race, Ah, what the form divinel What every virtue, every gracel Rose Aylmer, all were thine. Rose Aylmer, whom these wakeful eyes May weep, but never see, A night of memories and of sighs I consecrate to thee. (page 311) On His Seventy-Fifth Birthday I strove with none; for none were worth my strife, Nature I loved, and next to Nature, Art; ees both hands before the fire of ife, It sinks, and I am ready to depart. (page 315) Here, yes, is restraint and sensitivity, but also, in its own realm, another "pure serene" of masterful poetry. Now that our respects are paid, it is time to begin laying the groundwork for our review of romanticism. Why not embody the review in the participation of as many oral readings of best-loved soon as time will permit?
LESSON DEPARTMENT At least two plans suggest themselves; doubtless there are countless others, and any plan is valid. In the first plan either the class leader or someone appointed by her introduces the program by reading a brief statement of the history and principles of the romantic movement; then various musical numbers and oral readings of romantic selections may follow. In the second plan the class leader or someone she chooses might act as narrator, introducing each reader by explaining what romantic principle predominates within her selections.
This project will prove more rewarding to everyone concerned, if art forms other than the written word are employed in presenting it. If the magnificent illustrations of William Blake are to be found anywhere in your community, use them to present not only Blake's poetry but the inspired beauty of romanticism. If large, clear portraits of the authors are available, show these when poems are presented. Music, the sister-art to poetry, | ideally can be alternated with reading of selections. 'The following poems have been set to music (possibly many others have been, also) and are to be found in many music libraries: Thomson—'"Rule, Britannia" Cowper—"'God Moves in a Mysterious Way," and many other hymns Burns—"Auld Lang Syne," Afton," "Bonnie Doon" Moore—"'Tis the Last Rose of Summer," "Believe Me, If All Those Endearing Young Charms." "Sweet The lesson entitled, "Introduction to Romanticism" appeared in the July 1951 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. A review of this 135 material might prove useful both to the class leader, to those who participate in the program, and to the members of the class. Pages 1-31 in the text contain much pertinent material. In preparing the introductory material or the unifying narrative comments, the speaker should be reminded that her function might be compared to that of the string which connects the pearls. In this project the emphasis should be on the literature itself; theory and history and classification best justify themselves if they merely join the various selections and then remain in the background. It would seem that the greatest problem in planning this program is the selection of what to read.
Since the purpose of this hour is primarily one of enjoyment through participation and recollection, the class leader should recall those passages of prose or poetry which she felt were most warmly received by the group..
Various authors should be represented, as well as the various phases of romanticism.
With the hope of assisting the class leader in choosing representative selections covering the many phases of romanticism, a preliminary incomplete listing has been made. The authors are classified under six arbitrary phases of the romantic movement.
Several authors made significant contributions in more than one phase.
Space will hardly permit listing each poem by title, even by the pertinent lines, and many of the phases might appear in the same poem. As a suggested springboard, then, from which the final selection might 

 —FEBRUARY 1953 evolve, the following suggestions are offered: 1. INDIVIDUALITY - DEMOCRACY - IDEALISM Gray Coleridge Burns Byron Blake Shelley Hood 2. NATURE Thomson Burns Collins Keats Wordsworth Shelley 3. Love Burns Keats Wordsworth Moore Byron Beddoes 4. MELANCHOLY - MysTERY Gray Keats Cowper Shelley Byron Hood 'Coleridge 5. THE Past Coleridge Keats Scott Hood Shelley 6. Beauty - IMAGINATION Blake Shelley "Wordsworth Keats Coleridge Landor: we Complete short poems might be read, or the most rewarding excerpts from longer ones. Participants should be selected at least a month in advance, that they may become familiar with their' readings, and completely at home as they hear the sound of their own voices reading the poems. 'The entire program will be much more pleasant and effective if an actual rehearsal of the program can be held before the scheduled day of presentation in Relief Society. In such a rehearsal we learn tremendously from the presentations and suggestions of each other, and confidence will be bolstered considerably. This lesson concludes our study of the romantic period. Next year's lessons will continue on in our text into the Victorian period, which all of us may anticipate proving to be as challenging and as rewarding and as pleasant as anything we have studied previously.