[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]

THE FLUORESCENCE OF THE LAMANITES In the stake missionary work now is the work for the minorities, and the work for the minorities includes all of these various groups. I should like to read at this juncture the instructions of the First Presidency of the Church as sent to the presidencies of stakes in May of this year. ' In or near many stakes of the Church are found groups of Indians, Spanishspeaking people, Japanese, Chinese, Greeks, Armenians, Italians, and others.
Where such minority groups are found, it may be desirable to have district presidents supervise the work among them.
Missionaries who have returned from foreign missions, especially those who speak the language of the minority groups, should be called to labor in this field, and, wherever possible, converts from among the groups' themselves should be used as missionaries among their own people. In many stakes are groups of Indians who. Are somewhat permanently located. In others, Indians come from the reservations for seasonal employment.
Careful planning should be made to prepare for these people. Too frequently the Indians are about ready to leave the area before the missionaries are alerted to the need.
Sometimes missionaries and stake officers feel that since the transients are going to be there for only a short time no good will come of working with them. But many converts have been made in a period of a few days in the fields, on the railroad track, in the mines, or on the ditchbank.
Many of the Indians returning to their reservations after the seasonal work take with them fond memories of kindnesses and of testimonies, and frequently complete their conversion at home. The stake and ward auxiliaries, with their enlistment committees and other facilities, should lend the fullest possible assistance and cooperation in aiding the stake missionary program.
They should gather information on investigators and others who might be interested, and cause 77 such information to be transmitted to the mission presidency. 'They should, whereever possible, adapt classes to meet the needs of investigators and new converts.
Stake presidencies will arrange for a proper correlation of the auxiliary organization with the stake mission. We no longer call it the Indian Relations Committee. We no longer call it the Correlation Committee. However, the functions have not changed, as you note in the last two lines: "Stake presidencies: will arrange for a proper correlation of the auxiliary organizations with the stake mission." HIS means, sisters, no diminution, no relaxing, in the.
Program of carrying the work to the minority groups. It is merely new emphasis. It is the old program, but we are using the organization which we have: the stake presidency, the stake mission presidency, the high councilors, the auxiliary leaders in the stakes, and then the stake missionaries, of course, under the stake mission presidency, all working co-operatively together to take the gospel to those who are in need in the various stakes. Now the work in all of the stakes is so varied, it is a difficult thing to work out a program which will fit all conditions found. In the regular work in the stakes the sisters may study literature and social science, as well as work day and theology, but among the minorities, sometimes the work must be adapted to suit the needs of the people. Literature, obviously, would not fit the needs of some of the groups who are less cultured among the minorities, and so substitutions 

 —FEBRUARY 1953 are made by wise stake presidencies and auxiliary leaders in _ those stakes. Now, I have wondered how I could best stimulate and encourage you folks toward the promotion of this work, and it seemed to me that perhaps if I.
Gave to you some ex-.
Amples of work that has been done by your own selves, that that inspiration might pass to others of you.
Being very intelligent people, you can adapt programs. All you need, I am sure, is the original vision, a vision of millions of good folks who need the gospel, millions of minority peoples who have been long deprived, and particularly millions of Lamanites, some sixty million, who have the blood of Lehi in their veins—these people, who have been so long deprived, and who need the gospel so much! S° I should like to quote from some of your own sisters in some of your stakes, the work that has been done in some of them, hoping that you may catch the spirit of it, and the vision of it, and go back into your own stakes, and under the direction of 'your stake presidency, find ways and means to bring the gospel to these people. Reno Stake From the Reno Stake, Sister Oxborrow writes: At the time the Relief Society was organized three years ago in Fallon, there were no baptized members, and now there are twenty.
They have also six non-members who attend the meetings regularly. The monthly visits of the visiting teachers are doing much to break down the superstitions of these people, and in gaining their confidence and friendship.
Some of the Indian sisters are officers, and attend our union meetings regularly. The visiting teachers are - being welcomed in the homes, now, where, at first, they were not.
This has also proved an opportunity to help improve their home conditions.
They are teaching them how to care for themselves and their families, and how to can foods. At our visiting teachers' convention tw@ weeks ago, three of the Indian sisters sang for us. One of the Indian sisters bore her testimony. She said it was quite difficult for her to preach the gospel to her people because of their legends, but said that the gospel seemed to be what they had been trying to remember. Union Stake Sister Lindsay in the Union Stake said that two sisters were sustained on the Relief Society stake board as a special committee to work with Indian women on the Umatilla Indian Reservation. | When we held our annual stake homemaker's day here in LeGrande, our Indian sisters had a beautiful display.
Meetings were held twice monthly, and attendance increased from three at first to thirteen during the winter.
Indian sisters were asked what they would like to do or learn, and a vote showed a preference for quilting.
Besides quilting, knitting, crocheting, and cooking were taught.
Such foods as corn bread, cocoa, bread puddings, and sauces, doughnuts, and applesauce were taught, and a blessing on the food was always given by the Indian women.
They gave lessons on the gospel, too, and hymns were taught. North Box Elder and South Box Elder Stakes From Brigham City, Sister Wight and Sister Knudson report: In three years' work we have been able to reach about twenty women. At first they were very cold and reserved, but now they accept us as their friends THE FLUORESCENCE OF THE LAMANITES and helpers. We have had a weekly work meeting during the three years. We have given them all the arts and crafts taught in our Relief Societies, including crocheting, knitting, textile painting, flower and quilt making.
They have finished eight lovely quilts. Humboldt Stake Sister Burner, from Elko, writes: The Lamanites who have joined the Church seem to be faithful people, and we hope that we can continue our labors with them. If we do not, they will be sorely disappointed. One Indian woman in Wells has been baptized and is a visiting teacher and a Primary teacher. She is very faithful in attending to her duties. A few days ago President Dahl mentioned this sister to me and said, 'She is one of the finest teachers in our whole stake." She is a full-blooded Indian. Kanab Stake Sister Heaton writes from Moccasin, Arizona: The care of their children and homemaking are improving.
They make their own quilts and sew and mend. The Relief Society teachers make a monthly visit to each Indian home. — Sevier Stake Elder Christensen, down in Richfield, writes that they have a Relief Society with the Indian ladies alone. The meetings are effective, and the attendance is good; they plan a lesson to present along with sewing and quilting.
During the past season they have completed seventeen quilts and have six in the making. Snowflake Stake Sister Hendrickson at Snowflake reports: We have attempted to hold meetings among the cucumber pickers of Shumway, Taylor, and Snowflake. Through 79 the efforts of one of our sisters, at Flagstaff, an entire family of Hopi Indians joined the Church. I can see that they (the Indian women, generally) have made a few improvements in cleanliness and a marvelous advancement in their attitudes toward us. One day a Lutheran minister walked into our Relief Society meeting. As is often the case, a husband of one of the women was present. The minister proceeded to try to discredit the Mormons, trying to stir up contention.
Then this young Indian husband stood up and defended us. He said he was glad we came to teach his wife good things, and he wanted us to keep coming.
Just that speech was pay for all that I have done. The message taken into all the homes in the stake for a year was, for this stake, "Do a kind act for an Indian." | San Juan Stake | From Blanding, Sister.
Hurst writes: | We have two Relief Society organizations among this people, one for the Navajos, and one for the Utes. We have attempted to give them some simple lessons on health. We have some old sewing machines, and with them we have taught the Indian women to piece quilt tops. The Indian women buy quilt batts and use them with the tops which they make, and the backs which they buy.
They have quite a number of very good serviceable quilts for their families.
Some of them are very good at making clothing for their families, too.
This year, on her own initiative, one woman has bottled over 120 quarts of fruit, besides making some jams and drying some apricots and peaches. One Indian family planted and raised a very nice garden, and: from it gathered a good deal of produce, some of which is being dried for use in the winter months ahead. We are attempting to teach them how to darn. One thing we have learned is that every one who works with our Lamanite sisters learns to love them. St. George Stake Sister Dewsnup of St. George, says: 
 —FEBRUARY 1953
Lessons on gospel subjects, the Golden Rule, cleanliness, sanitation, and honesty are given, and they are taught to sing our hymns and to pray. All the women make quilts, etc. Mt. Graham Stake Sister Merrill of the stake board writes that she fixes meals in her home, shows these women the many conveniences that she has, lets them help to prepare the meal. One of the Indian brothers there said, "Well, I sure believe in the way you treat the Indians." Cedar Stake Sister Parry reports: Of the thirteen babies born in our village last year and this, nine died, four lived. We teach them nursing. Two Indian women completed a home nursing course under the direction of the Red Cross in the spring. The Welfare co-ordinator of this region reports that the attitude of the Indians receiving Welfare is very good, and above that of some of our own white people receiving Welfare, in that most of them are willing and anxious to work for what they receive. We have been able to remodel and mend enough clothes for most of the children in the village, as well as for most of the grown folks. Millard Stake From Kanosh, in Millard Stake, where Sister Beckstrand presides, we have this report: They (the Indian women) seem to enjoy our theology and work meetings. One sister wept silently as we delivered the teachers' topic in her home. Last Thursday we held our work meeting at the Indian camp. All attended. A card table with a white cover and a centerpiece of asters made the undecorated room homey and attractive. Roosevelt Stake At Ouray, some forty quilts were made out in the Roosevelt Stake. At Randlett, from one home where they had grown a fairly good garden of their own, a sixty-five year old Indian mother brought for me to see, pint bottles of string beans, little carrots, plums, etc., and her face was beaming with pride as she wiped the bottles with a white cloth, and how they sparkled! She said, "The Relief Society teaches us how to do it." Maricopa Stake Sister Brinton writes that one of the finest things that has ever affected their Indian sisters there was the request from the general board of the Relief Society for every member to pay the $5 to the Relief Society Building.
They feared they could not do it. But with some encouragement from the stake authorities, they went to work. President Wright gave a dozen chickens for a chicken dinner, then each of the Indian women gave a chicken. President Wright gave the cakes from his bakery, and Bishop Hicks gave $25. In the next months we had an average attendance of 22 out of 27 enrolled.
Some walked as far as 3 miles to be there. Two old women, almost blind, could weave pot holders and were always there. The Indian girls served.
They made themselves crepe paper aprons and caps and some sisters were with them to help them prepare and show them how, but had them do all the cooking and serving.
After they paid their assessment to the general board they had $299 left. The Spanish-American Lamanite Relief Society was the first, and the Indian Relief Society the third in the whole stake to turn in their quota. And wasn't the Spanish-American branch here in Salt Lake the first in the Church to reach the goal? 'Sister Spafford says this is correct. THE FLUORESCENCE OF THE LAMANITES Almost all of the Lamanite sisters can make light bread, wholewheat and white, beautiful cakes and pies, rolls, etc. Phoenix Stake In the Phoenix Stake they are doing an admirable work.
Several different groups of Indians, and Spanish-Americans, are doing a wonderful work there. Sister Shumway writes: | We realize that our real purpose with the Lamanite people is to teach them the gospel.
Their interest grew in The Book of Mormon, and then we taught them with flannel- 'grams, and with the stories and pictures, pictures brought from Salt Lake, which had their attention. We have encouraged the women to go to the hospital to have their babies, so there would be greater safety and there would be less loss of life. The Government hospital there gives them five days in maternity cases. We teach these dear people everything from soap making to marriage vows, and family ties. A year or so ago the first marriage which most of them can remember was performed. Our bishop performed the marriage. The stake president was present and gave a fine talk on marriage. It was in the schoolhouse, and we decorated with flowers, had a lovely refreshment table, with music, and did our best to make it sweet and lovely.
There were forty invited guests, and they sat wide-eyed and quiet.
Many eyes were filled with tears, which spilled over and ran down brown, freshly scoured cheeks. Men attend the meetings in many of these cases. GISTERS, this is a great work.
There are limitless possibilities, as limitless as are your dreams of the night and your thoughts of the day, and your interest and your love for 81 your fellow men and women. You can go out to these people, take your sisters to these camps. You can provide a program that will inspire them. I want to close with my favorite theme, that quilts and cans of fruits and vegetables and layettes and banquets and bazaars and clothing and sewing and cooking and sanitation and nursing and knitting, and all those things are but the bolts and the screws and the fenders and the wheels and the tires of the vehicle that takes us to our goal. Our goal is not to make quilts. Our goal is to make saints of the Lamanite people, and the other minority groups. It is to build character; it is to build faith; it is to give them knowledge of their Lord and his program. The Lord said, "This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). He did not mean the white man only, he meant the red man and the brown man. And that is your privilege as executives and officers in the Relief Societies of this Church, under your stake presidencies and in co-operation with the stake missions, to carty the gospel of peace and good will and love to the minority groups in this the true Church, the Church of Jesus Christ. I bear testimony of the divinity of this work, and the divinity of this Church, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.