[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Activities]
Former presidents, left to right: Electa Thatcher, Edna Cooley; Ada Harding; Ruth Perkins; Rachel Muir; Blanche Vaughn; Lucille Baker; Edna Skinner; Bessie Bleak; Alta Heder; Ruby Choate; Ethel Bailey; Rea Jorgensen; Martha Graham. Every former president, except Cleta Hansen, the second president, who resides in Utah, was in attendance. A program paying tribute to each former president of the Whittier Relief Society, since its organization in 1926, was presented. Heart-warming, as well as humorous incidents of the society's growth were described. In June 1940, the ward was divided, creating Whittier First Ward and Whittier Second Ward, with Rea Jorgensen presiding in the First Ward, and Martha Graham in the Second Ward. Genevieve L. Anderson is president of East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Rebecca Mortenson SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION November 8, 1952
Left to right: Sophia L. Taylor, stake education counselor; Virginia Adams; Gertrude Iverson; Bertha Firth; Pearl Toland; Grace Brough; Eva Hansen, stake visiting teacher message leader; Mary Marble; Ida Miller; Norma Erickson. Eva Hansen gave a talk on the visiting teachers messages, and the ward leaders gave the messages for 1952-53, illustrating the thoughts with posters. The following were honored for their long service as visiting teachers: Virginia Adams, Sylvia Christensen, Rozina Dodd, Ethel Hampson, Ada Calderwood, Kate Harris, Margaret Thomas, Grace Fryer, Mae Bosley, Victoria 'Thompson, Mary Anderson, Ida Miller. The visiting teachers assembled in this convention especially enjoyed the dramatization ''A Message in Action," given by Geraldine Summers, Peggy Marble, Bessie NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125
Calderwood, Vilate Archibald, Alvaretta Rytting, and Margaret Thomas. The group also enjoyed a display of Christmas gift suggestions prepared by Roma Whitaker, stake work director, and Fanny Fridal, stake work meeting leader. Dainty refreshments were served. Rebecca Mortenson is president of South Bear River Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ruth M. Pell SANTA ROSA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RETIRING RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ENTERTAIN NEW STAKE BOARD AT SOCIAL September 12, 1952
Retiring officers, seated, left to right: Dorothy Blaisdell, chorister; Leola Hamblin, Secretary-Treasurer; Jennie Dusenberry, literature leader; Louise Arntsen, organist; LaVaun Allen, visiting teacher leader. New officers, standing, left to mght: Vera Mitchell, visiting teacher leader; Helen Murdock, theology leader; Verda Newman, social science leader; Jean Porter, chorister; Elda Lowry, Second Counselor; Dorothy Knowlton, Secretary-Treasurer; Ruth Pell, President; Martha Byrme, First Counselor; Edna Peterson, work meeting leader; Eva Southwick, Magazine representative; Katherine Davis, organist. Vera Maude Sorenson, retiring president, and Verda Telford, former second counselor were not present when this photograph was taken. Nostalgia Ouida Johns Pedersen I have left my sullen hills for this fair sea. Sequestered valleys intimate to me I must forget. All that I know is sand, Round-breasted dunes that press against the land. Unfettered, unrestricted by the chain Of circling mountains, I am whole again, And only the observing, or the wise, Can tell it is not sea spray in my eyes.
