[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: A Party That's Different | Author: Yvonne Child Hiss 102 Adventure in Glass—VII. Old Glass in New Houses by Alberta H. Christensen]
A  PARTY  THAT'S  DIFFERENT 
101 
dipped  in  chocolate,  at  the  base  of 
the  pole,  and  put  a  paper  canopy 
on  top.  You  can  make  a  canopy 
yourself  out  of  typing  paper,  or  get 
paper-cone  drinking  cups,  cut  them 
off  to  the  desired  length,  and  deco- 
rate with  stripes. 
For  a  Thanksgiving  theme,  dec- 
orate cupcakes  like  a  turkey,  with 
fan-tail  and  turkey  head.  Give  Pil- 
grim hats  or  an  Indian  headband 
with  a  feather,  instead  of  party  hats. 
Play  'Tin-the-feather-on-the-Indian- 
bonnet,"  or  'Tin-the-trigger-on-the- 
musket"! 
■pOR  a  spring  party,  decorate  cup- 
cakes like  flowers,  with  choco- 
late wafer  centers  and  frosting  or 
gumdrop  petals.  Or,  decorate  them 
as  a  butterfly,  with  big  paper  wings, 
a  gumdrop  stick  or  orange  stick 
body,  and  curled  pipecleaner  feel- 
ers. 
For  hats,  make  May  baskets  out 
of  old  cottage-cheese  cartons  cov- 
ered with  crepe  paper.  Give  them 
a  paper  handle,  some  imitation 
grass,  and  a  daisy  sprouting  out. 
They  look  pretty  silly  perched  on  a 
head,  but  that's  the  whole  idea  for 
party  hats,  and  they  are  cute  for 
older  children. 
For  a  February  party,  fold  soldier 
hats  out  of  newspaper  (or  crepe 
paper,  if  you  prefer)  and  give  each 
child  a  flag.  Decorate  cakes  with 
cherries,  hatchets,  or  flags. 
You  might  want  a  Valentine 
theme.      Make   hats    out    of    two 
large  red  hearts  glued  together 
around  the  outside  edge  and  worn 
upside  down,  with  the  point  of 
the  heart  up.  Pierce  each  hat  with 
a  white  paper  arrow.  This  is  an 
easy  theme  to  carry  out,  with  so 
many  favors  available  in  the  stores, 
and  many  attractive  ones  that  you 
can  make. 
For  a  snow  theme,  make  a 
marshmallow  snowman  on  the 
cupcake,  give  him  a  licorice  stove- 
pipe hat,  and  paint  a  face  with  cake 
coloring.  For  the  children,  make 
stovepipe  hats,  or  snowball  hats, 
covered  with  cotton,  or  blue  hats 
with  a  white  paper  snowflake  on 
them. 
There  are  hundreds  of  possible 
themes  and  many  variations  on  old 
games  to  fit  in  with  your  theme. 
Swimming  in  August — Chewing  gum 
diving  board. 
Fourth-of-July — Peppermint  stick  fire- 
cracker. 
Autumn  leaves — ^A  gumdrop  and  pipe- 
cleaner  elf,  with  an  autumn-leaf  tunic. 
March  wind — Paper  pinwheels  and 
kites. 
Now,  one  last  rule  to  remember. 
Give  everybody  a  prize  to  take 
home.  It's  not  a  party  unless  each 
one  has  a  present.  Give  whistles, 
horns,  balloons,  bubble  pipes,  pin- 
wheels,  flags— and,  if  you  can't  think 
of  anything  else,  have  a  fish  pond 
and  give  everybody  something  dif- 
ferent. Your  child  deserves  a  party 
that's  different! 
KyLfterthought 
Beulah  Huish  Sadleir 
I  one  time  thought,  when  days  were  hard  and  long, 
That  only  rested  throat  made  perfect  song — 
Until  I  heard  a  mother's  weary  sigh 
Transposed  into  a  soothing  lullaby.

Trite,  But  True 
his  W.  Schow 
AFTER  getting  out  of  Madge's  She  hurried,  hardly  able  to  wait  to 
new  red  and  tan  convertible,  show  Mom  and  the  little  girls  its 
Karen  Moore  lingered,  hold-  contents,  the  cleverly  tailored 
ing  the  large  box  from  Clarrell's  brown  skirt,  the  lovely,  long- 
Apparel  absently,  while  everyone  sleeved  gold  blouse,  and  the  cute 
talked  about  the  trip.  Her  short  little  green  weskit.  She  could  use 
chestnut  hair,  gently  waved  at  the  last  year's  sports  jacket  when  it  was 
very  ends,  made  her  slender  face  chilly. 
look  a  little  rounder,  she  thought  How  lucky  it  was  that  her  pal, 
hopefully.  Jane  Ann,  had  that  wonderful  old- 
For,  perhaps,  the  dozenth  time  er    sister    Madge,    who    had   been 
the  idea  had  been  expressed  by  one  working    long   enough    to    own    a 
girl  or  another.    Karen  said,  'The  beautiful    new    convertible!     How 
main  point  is  to  have  everybody  lucky  that  Madge  and  Shirley  were 
picked  up  and  be  actually  leaving  willing  to  have  her  and  Jane  Ann 
town  by  five  a.m."  along!    Lots  of  older  girls  wouldn't 
"Sure  thing!"  agreed  Shirley,  be. 
bounding  out  of  the  back  seat  and  ''Mom,  where  are  you?"  Karen 
moving  up  in  front,  followed  by  called,  before  discovering  that  she 
Jane  Ann.  was  alone  in  the  house.  She  re- 
'Tm  so  thrilled,"  said  Madge,  membered  then  that  her  mother 
"Not  that  I  haven't  already  been  to  was  doing  her  Relief  Society  visit- 
Yellowstone  several  times— but  driv-  ing  teaching.  That  responsibility, 
ing  instead  of  going  with  the  fam-  plus  the  cherry  canning  and  Kar- 
ily,  and  deciding  where  to  eat  and  en's  preparations  for  the  trip,  had 
stay  all  night!  Won't  it  be  special?"  provided  Mom's  reason  for  leaving 
Might  as  well  say  I've  never  been,  the  washing  until  Tuesday. 
thought    Karen,    her    eager    hazel  Well,  Mom  would  be  home  any 
eyes     growing     serious.      Anyway,  minute.     Meantime,   Karen   could 
sooner  or  later  I'd  give  it  away  by  finish  packing  and  set  the  table, 
some  remark.  Deciding  to  set  the  table  first, 
"It's  my  first  trip  to  Yellowstone,"  she  hurried  to  the  breakfast  nook, 
she  said.     "Well,  I'll  see  you— be-  On  the  table  was  a  little  heap  con- 
fore  daylight."  sisting  of  Joyce's  blouse  that  need- 
She  started  for  the  house,  their  ed  the  sleeves  shortened  to  get  rid 
gay  voices  ringing  after  her.  of  the  worn  elbows,  a  lunch  cloth 
"Will  we  ever  keep  you  busy,  with    the    hem    picked    out    far 
seeing  everything  we  point  out!"  enough  so  that  a  frayed  edge  could 
"See  you  before  five!"  be  sewn  under  on  the  machine,  and 
"Now,  be  ready!  Be  alerted!"  the  top  of  the  pajamas  that  Ray 
As  they  drove  away  Karen  be-  liked  so  well,  with  a  patch  pinned 
came  aware  of  the  box  she  carried,  in  place  under  the  arm.    They  were 
Page  102

TRITE,  BUT  TRUE 
all  folded  neatly  in  a  pile,  of  course, 
still  they  gave  the  room  a  cluttered 
effect. 
Funny  thing  about  Mom,  she 
was  such  an  efficient  mother  in 
most  ways.  Her  canning  was  per- 
fect, and  she  had  the  cleverest 
ideas  for  sewing  and  making  over. 
But  she  was  always  laying  out  little 
piles  of  things,  intending  to  mend 
them  sometime  during  the  day.  If 
she  stopped  to  think  about  it,  she 
would  know  perfectly  well  she 
couldn't  do  it  on  a  full  day  like  this. 
Karen  seized  the  sewing,  started 
for  Mom's  chest  of  drawers,  hesi- 
tated. Maybe  she  could  run  up 
this  little  bit  herself  before  dinner. 
No,  she  positively  wouldn't  get 
time. 
In  the  front  bedroom  she  no- 
ticed Mom's  print  dress  that  need- 
ed taking  up  in  the  shoulders,  spread 
out  on  the  bed.  Mom  knew  it 
would  have  to  have  the  collar  tak- 
en off  and  the  top  of  the  sleeves 
undone  to  get  to  the  shoulder 
seams.  Then  someone  must  help 
her  fit  it,  to  do  a  really  good  job. 
There  was  no  point  in  getting  it 
out  today  and  pinning  it  to  see 
how  it  would  look.  Karen  put  it 
away  and  hurried  to  the  kitchen. 
On  the  counter  were  the  quarts 
of  rosy  cherries  they  had  canned 
that  morning,  cool  now  and  ready 
to  store.  They  looked  grand.  But 
there  lay  a  dish  towel,  with  a  streak 
of  gravy  across  it  ...  .  Mom  had 
forgotten  to  use  the  potholders