
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿VOL 3.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, June 1, 1874.	No. 1.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ONE STRANGE fact in relation to literature
is, that a number of English writers have
gained reputations in America before re-
ceiving any attention at home.

	NATURALISTS HAVE lately decided that
crocodiles are voiceless. The young, it has
been ascertained, are endowed with a bleat-
ing voice, but the adults are utterly power-
less, so far as utterance is concerned. They
may be tortured to death without giving
forth a sound. This phenomenon is sup-
posed to be due to the gradual hardening of
the ligaments of the larynx and of the
whole internal structure of the mouth as
they advance in age. A good remedy for
the afflictions of some men who find such
great annoyances in the tongues of women,
and think they should not speak, would be
to reside a while with a family of croco-
diles.

	A LITTLE four year old girl, of Indiana,
named Rosa Mansfield Eversole, is reported
to be a musical prodigy which eclipses all
others ever known. Several meritorious
pieces of music from her compositions have
already been published in musical papers;
and after once hearing an operatic selection
on the piano she is able to repeat it. Will
she be wisely induced by her friends to let
music alone as much as possible, until she is
older and stronger, when she may become a
brilliant and powerful attraction to the mu-
sical world; or will the little heart and brain
be encouraged to hoard and bear up load
after load of melodious treasures, until they
sink and break down under too great a pres-
sure? Most likely the latter. It is usually
so.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
		
     TO REMOVE SUBSTANCES FROM THE EYE.
—To remove foreign bodies from the eye-
lid, take hold of the upper eyelid, near its
angles, with the index finger and thumb of
each hand. Draw it gently forward, and as
low down as possible over the lower eyelid,
and retain it in this position for about a
minute, taking care to prevent the tears
flowing out. When, at the end of this time,
you allow the eyelid to resume its place, a
flood of tears washes out the foreign body,
which will be found adhering to, or near to
the lower lid.

     THE WEAR OF THE BRAIN.—The notion
that those who work only with their brains
need less food than those who labor with
their hands, has been the cause of untold
mischief. Students and literary men have
often been the victims of a slow starvation
from their ignorance of the fact that mental
labor causes as much waste of tissue as an
equal amount of muscular labor. The im-
portance of the brain as a working organ is
shown by the amount of blood it receives,
which is proportionately greater than that of
any other part of the body. One-fifth of the
blood goes to the brain, though its average
weight is only one-fortieth of the weight of
the body. This fact alone would be suffi-
cient to prove that brain-workers need more
food and better food than mechanics and


farm laborers.—“Boston Journal of Chem-
istry."

     DIETARY IDIOSYNCRSIES.—We see our
friends freely indulging, with benefit instead
of harm, in kinds of food which experience
too painfully assures us we can eat only with
certain injury. To this fact the attention of
parents and guardians should be seriously
given, that by it they may learn to avoid
the petty tyranny and folly of insisting on
children eating food for which they mani-
fest repugnance. It is too common to treat
the child’s repugnance as mere caprice, to
condemn it as “stuff and nonsense” when
he refuses to eat fat, or eggs, or certain
vegetables and “wholesome” puddings.
Now, even a caprice in such matters should
not be altogether slighted, especially when
it takes the form of refusal; because this
caprice is nothing less than the expression
of a particular and temporary state of his
organism, which we should do wrong to dis-
regard. And whenever a refusal is con-
stant, it indicates a positive unfitness in the
food. Only gross ignorance of physiology,
an ignorance unhappily too widely spread,
can argue that because a certain article is
wholesome to many, it must necessarily be
wholesome to all. Each individual organ-
ism is specifically different from every
other. However much it may resemble
others, it necessarily in some points differs
from them, and the amount of these differ-
ences is often considerable.


A TESTIMONY.

     To my Sisters, women of the Latter-day
Saints:—I feel that my whole heart is in this
Kingdom, and my soul rejoices in the Uni-
ted Order that is being established among
this people. I think the time approaches
which was spoken of by Malachi the Pro-
phet.—“Then shall ye return and discern
between the righteous and the wicked, be-
tween him that serveth God and him that
serveth Him not.” My prayer is, that we,
as handmaids of the Lord, shall not prove,
in any instance a draw-back in this great
work of establishing God’s Kingdom upon
the earth. Let us pray continually that
judgment may be given to the Saints, that
they may be enabled to take the kingdom
and possess it forever. I can bear testimony
that this uniting together of the people is
of God; for in His mercy and by His Holy
Spirit, He showed me the Order, more than
twenty-seven years ago. The winter after
we left Nauvoo, when we were stopped at
Council Bluffs, and were destitute of even
daily bread, when our men had to go to
Missouri and work for a little corn and ba-
con to keep their families alive, while the
women would stay at home and pray and
fast—the latter they were sometimes obliged
to do, I can speak for one at least—then we
trusted in the Lord—we had nothing else
to trust in. One day I got so faint and weak
I had to lie down on the bed, and my heart
was drawn out in prayer and supplication to
my Heavenly Father. I began to think how
many good things there were in the world,
how many people lived in pride and luxury,
while others were famishing for the com-
monest necessaries of life. And the vision


of my mind was opened, and the Lord
showed me the time when the Saints should
inherit the earth, when the Spirit of the
Lord should be poured out upon them, and
the Kingdom and the greatness of the King-
dom would be given to them and they
should possess it forever. This has often
been a great consolation to me since that
time, in days of poverty and distress. And
in the darkest hours I have never doubted
that the Lord would yet do for His Saints
what He then showed me He would do.
But I will tell you further of His goodness
to me at that time. How true it is that He
never forsakes those who trust in him!
There was a good Samaritan at hand; a sis-
ter living about three quarters of a mile
from me was impressed to come and see how
I was getting along, knowing that I was
alone with my little ones. In obedience to
the impulse she came bringing with her a
prairie chicken which they had caught in a
trap. It was all dressed ready for cooking,
and she was not long in making me some
broth, just what my weak and delicate state
needed. And did I not thank my Heavenly
Father and that dear sister for their good-
ness to me? Can I doubt that God’s care
has been over His Saints, or that He will
cease to care for them?		S. K. G.


For the EXPONENT.
		MRS. WOODHULL.

     She is most decidedly a splendid speaker.
Listening to her lecture of May 12th, given
in the Salt Lake Theatre, was to me a grand
treat, so far as eloquence was concerned.
Then, she evidently speaks what she has to
say in all sincerity, believing that her state-
ments ALL, as many of them most certainly
are, ponderous truths. Her correct showing
of the general ignorance of woman, coming
as it does from a woman, and spoken to
women, should assist in rousing, many to a
sense of the importance of their making
earnest endeavors to become woman worthy
of the names of wives and mothers.
     The face of Mrs. W. as seen through an
opera glass, tells that she is a women of sor-
row, and acquainted with grief. And listen-
ing to her appealing tones and touching ex-
planations, after she has thrown aside her
notes, and begins to speak upon the impulse
of the moment, one can feel that at some
time in her life she has known deep wrongs
which have embittered what must have
been a beautiful soul. Then arises before
the mind's eye a picture of French women
when they gather in mobs for vengance;
and the thought occurs, “if they had such a
woman to lead them, what works of ruin
would they leave behind them!” And if
the American nation is in the state she rep-
resents it, a vast body of corruption, who
can tell when the seething mass may arise
and devastate this whole nation? Reigns of
terror may not be confined to France.
							MARY.


﻿MISS Mary A. Thayer, who was recently
elected a member of the West Bridgewater
School Committee, has been appointed Su-
perintendent of Schools by her fellow-mem-
bers, who are all men.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT
		WOMAN'S RIGHTS.

	A woman's truest empire is her home;
Nor should she idly from its precints roam;
Nor in her neighbors seek some fault to find;
But strive her own affairs alone to mind.
	
	High as a good man's place will always be.
As high is a true woman's destiny.
Quietly working at the side of man,
Both striving to do all the good they can.

	'Tis woman's right to lead in virtue's way
The opening mind, from childhood's earliest day.
Teaching to ardent and aspiring youth,
Self sacrifice, pure love, unshaken truth.

	With loving zeal to charm the cares of age,
The pangs of want and the sickness to a[-]suage:
To be a comforter when trials pain,
In sorrow and adversity, sustain.

	To seek the homes where striken sisters lie,
To teach the trembling sinner how to live or die;
Eager and glad each holy work to aid,
To share the burdens upon others laid.

	By gentle words win erring hearts from wrong,
And show what power to Woman does belong.
Nor turning from small deeds which must be done,
And by which must of lasting good is won.

	May we each strive our duties to fulfill,
With earnest purpose and determined will;
Helpmeet for man, not rivals, should we prove;
Our empire home, our "Rights" maintained by love.
CENTREVILLE.						      A. H.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of South Cottonwood
Ward held its Sixth Annual meeting, May
19th, 1874. Sister Mary I. Horne, and Sis-
ter Kimball from the city were present, also
Sister Howard and others from adjoining
wards; the Cottonwood Ward House was
well filled with earnest listeners. There
was singing, prayer, and the reading of 
minutes and financial reports, followed by
happy and instructive remarks from Elder
William G. Young and a number of the sis-
ters. Several sisters and a baby, being af-
flicted, were administered to; and meeting
adjourned until the second Thursday in
June.
	Mrs. Jannette Cahoon, President.
	Mrs. Anne E. Labrum,   }
	Miss Ella E. Despain,	}   Secretaries.

	From HYRUM, CACHE CO. May 13th, 1874.
	On Saturday, the 9th inst., the Relief So-
ciety of this Ward held its sixth Annual
meeting. Although the day was stormy,
there was a good attendance. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. Christina Liljenquist, after con-
gratulating the Society on the arrival of its
Sixth Anniversary, spoke upon their past
labors. They had been one in the past,
there had been nothing but peace and har-
mony among them, and the result was, that
God had abundantly blessed their humble 
endeavors to do good. All the officers had
been diligent and faithful in the discharge 
of their duties, as the report of the year
would show. The Secretary, Mrs. M. M.
Nielson then read the financial statement.
The books showed that there had been re-
ceived $226.65, and that a goodly portion of
the amount had been disbursed to aid the
sick, the poor, and to assist in other good
works. The report was unanimously ac-
cepted. Addresses were then delivered by
Mrs. Lucy Wilson and Martha Ward, (Coun-
selors,) also by several of the Teachers.
Each speaker congratulated the Society upon
its improvements, and the good feeling that
had existed among its members during the
past six years, which was something to be
proud of, and was a strong proof that nearly
two hundred women, associated together in
the Gospel of Jesus Christ for the mutual
benefit of themselves and all within their
influence, were not only capable of intelli-
gently exercising the right of franchise
that had been conferred on them, but also
of filling woman's mission on earth, as 
Mothers, Wives and Daughters, dispensing
aid and comfort to all who were in need.
The standing officers were unanimously sus-
tained for the ensuing year. The EXPO-
NENT was well spoken of, and arrangements
were made for an increased list for the com-
ing Volume. Elders C. C. Shaw and H. H.
Petersen addressed the meeting, encourag-
ing the ladies in their good works. The
Sunday School Choir, under the direction of
Professor H. H. Peterson, added greatly to
the interest of the meeting by their sweet
singing. The Society has three shares of
ten dollars each in the Hyrum Branch of Z.
C. M. I. Bishop Liljenquist has just re-
turned from Salt Lake City, having pur-
chased a Library which will be managed by
the Society. Hoping you will pardon me
for trespassing on your valuable space, and
praying God to bless you in your enterprise
which has already done much good among
your sisters, I remain yours very respect-
fully,			HARRIET A. SHAW.

		WASHINGTON CITY, May 19th.
	The Young Ladi's Retrenchment Asso-
ciation, of this city, holds weekly meetings
which are well attended. Much improve-
ment has been made by the association since
its organization. Lately a quorum of Teach-
ers, with a President has been elected in ad-
dition to the former officers. This commit-
tee numbers nine, whose names are as fol-
lows: Mrs. Jane Brands, President; mem-
bers, Misses Josephine Clark, Phebe Cov-
ington, Susan Chidester, Julia Vanarden,
Maria Sarensen, Ruth Richie, Carolina Pe-
terson, Virginia Tyler. It is the desire and
the design of the Association to learn to
realize more fully the privileges vouchsafed
to young Latter-day Saints, and by acting
upon them, to improve in every good thing.
To let alone the follies of the outside world,
to set good examples and be leaders in the
way of virtue, rather than followers after
vanity.		LUCY COOPER, President.

From RICHMOND, CACHE CO., May 22nd, 1874.
	According to previous appointment, a
number of ladies met in the Richmond
Hall, Thursday, May 14th, 1874 for the pur-
pose of organizing a Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association. Sister S. A. Merrill
made some excellent remarks, and Miss
Mary Stewart spoke of the benefits of such 
an association, and explained to some ex-
tent what was meant by "Retrenchment."
Several other sisters made appropriate re-
marks. The following officers were unani-
mously elected.
	Miss Mary Stewart President; Miss Dela
Stewart, Mrs. Hannah Stewart, Mrs. Sarah
Stewart, Miss Ella Griffon, Miss Mary
Lewis, Miss Abbie Pond, Miss Josephine
Whittle, Counselors; Miss Phebe A. Mer-
rill Secretary, Mrs. Betsy Burnham Treas-
urer.
	It was resolved to hold meetings every
Thursday at 4 p. m.
	The young ladies all seem much interest-
ed, and are thankful that we have such an
organization in our midst.
			Phebe A. Merrill, Sec'y.


A LAWYER, in replying to his antagonist
in court, said he had “a keen rapier with
which to pierce all fools and knaves,” where-
upon his opponent “moved the Court” that
the rapier be taken from him, lest he should
commit suicide.


FLORAL HINTS.	

DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Your appreciated remembrance I noted
last evening, as I sit down after the day’s
toil to read all the good things you carefully
store up like honey in the comb, for the en-
lightenment and elevation of us “poor
downtrodden.”	
    To-day has been a charming one and I
have enjoyed it, lingering among the roses,
breathing fragrance of the lillies and honey-
suckles, admiring the curious markings,
shades and colors of pansies, pinks, verbe-
nas and sweet peas; and even stooping to
cull the scarlet strawberry from out its close,
nestling, verdant foliage. The roses are all
aglow in rarest beauty, of every hue from
pure white to crimson and yellow; and in
such masses—such wonderful abundance,
that the name of “Rose Cottage” might not
be inappropriate for our humble, vine clad
home.	
      The subject of flowers is so apropos to my
feelings, now that we are in the midst of
their beauty and fragrance, that I thought I
would respond to your suggestion, in May
first. So as soon as I had got the children
off to Sunday School and Willie “sleeked
up,” I hunted out my writing things and
began.
    I should have told you at the first that our
Willie is most a year old, has seven teeth,
can say “ma, pa, up,” eat strawberries like
anything, tear a rose to pieces in less than
two minutes and—we DO think—is just the
smartest, prettiest, “blue-eyedest” boy ever
seen.— But—Oh yes! the flowers. Well, a
lady called yesterday to see our garden.
When she came in sight of the roses, lilies,
peonies and such like brilliant flowers, she
stopped, raised her hands and shouted, “O
dear!!,” and then stood in almost mute ad-
miration. Finally she asked, “Why can-
not I, who love a garden and flowers so
much, have them to make my heart glad?”
   Said I,  “My dear woman, you can as well
as not.” 
    “But,” said she, “I don’t know how to
take care of them.” 
    Said I, “A child can learn, and so can
you.”	
    Then she said, “I don’t get time.”
Said I, “It don’t take much time. A wo- 
man may have a nice flower garden for
twenty minutes daily, in the Summer; and
this you can save when “Mrs. Gad-a-bout”
calls. Take her out to see the garden, then
you go to work while she repeats her gos-
sip or errand.
     “Well,” said, she, “I never thought of
that. I might really, but I’ve got no seeds,
and don’t know how to plant them.” 
    Said I, “I have nicest of seeds, some I
raised and some I sent to the States for. I
can let you have all you want.”
     “But,” said she, “How can I pay you?”
     “O never mind” said I, “I'll take it in
butter when the cow comes in; or you may
make Willie his first pants.” (I think of
putting him in pants next month. Don’t
you think he will look delightful? Little
man!)
     “Well,” said she, “thank you, I’ll do it.
Or I’ll send Betsy up some day when you	
have a big washing.”
      “All right,” said I. 
      “But I don’t know' what sort of seeds I
want,” said she. 
    I’ll tell you what kind I like best,” said I,
“and which are easiest raised.”
    "And you'll tell me how to plant them," 
said she. 
	"Certainly," said I, "and come down and


see them, and show you how to take care of
them."
	And so we walked on to see the flowers.
	"What is this big bunch of tall buds and
leaves, flowers opening red, white and
pink?" enquired my visitor.
	"Peonies," said I. "You must get a root
in fall or spring, and if you take care of it, in
two or three years it will be as nice as this.
And that tall spike of curious shaped flowers
is the snap-dragon or antirrhinum—blossoms
the second year and keeps on for years—is
easily raised and very showy. So is the
canterbury belle over there, just now about
to bloom. Those gay flowers are sweet peas,
which I planted early in the fall; and you
see they bloom so early and look deliciously
fresh and lovely."
	"Well," asked my apreciative visitor,
after admiring all the flowers in bloom,
"what are all these little plants along the
borders?"
	"These," I answered, "are the sorts of 
posies I shall select you seeds of. These
are balsams, that mass is phlox, those double
zinnias and chrysanthemums, this is a bed
of China pinks and these my corner poppies.
All these are easily grown and will make a 
charming display for annuals."
	So we went and selected the seeds, add-
ing to those above named, dwarf convolvu-
lus, nasturtian, verbenas, scarlet cypress,
portulacca, &c.
	"Now," said she, "tell me how to plant
them." 
	Said I, "You must scald the cypress seed,
the portulacca you must not cover more
than a quarter of an inch deep, and the
poppy about the same. The others may be
covered half an inch deep. Keep the
ground damp until the plants are up. It
should first be well spaded and pulverized;
then spread over it about three inches thick-
ness of old, well rotted, fine manure and spade
again. Then if the ground is clayey ground,
put on about three inches of sand and spade 
all up again."
	"O dear that'll make one's back ache,"
observed my visitor.
	"But you must be a little cute," said I,
"and when you present your husband or
son with a new shirt of pair of socks or
pants, then put in for your flower garden. 
Or if they like custard pie or anything else,
particularly, fix it up, whatever the men
folks like best, and then intercede for the
spading and preparation of your flower gar-
den. And it will be done if you manage
right, as a woman. Then, I continued,
make little drills, sow your seeds and cover
the ground with an old piece of carpet until
the plants begin to come up. Then remove
it and keep them properly moist until
they shade the ground. If too thick, trans-
plant some of them to other places where
you wish flowers to grow."
	"Well," said she, "there's work in this,
and in fact I never had the knack of getting
things I didn't work for, as some people can.
However, I like your directions and will go
and follow them." And she went off smil-
ing.
	Now any body may do as well as my lady
caller, and have flowers plenty. Don't you
think so? I'm sure I took much pleasure in 
telling her all I could to help her; and I'd
tell and help a hundred others with the same
pleasure. So, if any of your readers should
want farther advice, now or at any time,
just let them ask and Flora will respond,
and—Hark! Willie is waking, dear little
one!						FLORA.
	St. George, May 10th 1874.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THOUGHTS, not hours, are the measures
of life.


FROM THE SANDWICH ISLANDS.

	Through the politeness of Mrs. E. Goddard,
we are permitted to publish the following 
extracts from a very interesting letter:

 	LAIE, OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS,
						April 26th, 1874.
   *   *   *   *   The weather of the past few
days has been extremely warm. Our Con-
ference passed off in a very spirited man-
ner, the white breathren having a good
flow of the spirit of the Gospel, and the
natives seeming to partake of the same in-
fluence. *  *  *  This is a strange people,
many of them will acknowledge their faults
to-day and seem to repent, and to-morrow
commit the same sins over again. But
when they would do right, evil is ever be-
fore them to tempt them from the paths of
virtue. We cannot be surprised at this,
when we take into consideration the life of
idleness and profligacy they led for so many
years before the Gospel found them. And
it did not find them any too soon, for the
seeds of death are wide spread among them,
and it will only be by the redeeming power
of the Gospel that a remnant will be saved.
	We had the honor of entertaining the
King of the Islands last Wednesday, in
company with about two hundred ladies
and gentlemen of high social and political
rank; on their way round the Island. They
started from Honolula on Monday and de-
sign making the round trip by Saturday
night. You can imagine my feelings when
on Tuesday afternoon a message came in-
forming us of his intention to stop here
Wednesday, and his desire to see all the
people on the Island. I acknowledge
that I did not know how to commence to
prepare for such a reception. Living, as we
do, so far from Honolula, our only source of
supplies, as to render it impossible to send
there for want of time, we were obliged to
make the best of what we had. And after
it was all over, I had proved the saying to
be true, “Where there’s a will there’s a
way.” I went to work with all the faith I
could get, and provided food upon which
sixty or more persons dined, and then there
was some left. We entertained all of his
Majesty's particular friends at the house;
the rest were provided for at the meeting
house, where they had all the beef, pork,
fish, poi and sweet potatoes they could eat.
Brother Mitchell painted two mottoes; one,
"Welcome KALAKANA to Laie," was placed
where he first came upon the land; the
other, “Long live the King,” at the en-
trance of the big gate a short distance from
the house. Each formed an arch and was
ornamented with fern leaves and vines.
At half past eleven, his Majesty rode up
with the whole company dressed in uniform;
the gentlemen in red over shirts and black
pantaloons, and the ladies in short red jack-
ets and black dresses. They were all upon
horseback except the Governor of Oahu and
his lady, his Majesty's sister Mrs. Cleghorn,
and two other ladies; these occupied three
buggies. It was a grand sight, the morn-
ing was beautiful and the good people of
Laie had put on their “best bib and tucker”
and assembled in our yard. On the approach
of the party they formed in two lines from
the gate to the house. At the former place
the King and Queen alighted and were met
by Brother Mitchell who welcomed them to
our humble accommodations and accompa-
nied them to the house. I could not have
believed that the presence of the King of
a semi-barbarous people could produce so
solemn and grand an effect. He walked
with uncovered head, saluting his people as
he passed them. His conduct was noble and
manly, his manners, entirely free from af-
fectation, were cordial and easy. He pre-
sented in person his friends to us; after
which he walked among the crowd and
shook hands, it seemed to me, with every-
body, and was extremely sociable with all.
The choir and school children sang for him,
and he delivered a short address, express-
ing his high appreciation of the prosperous
appearance of the people of Laie; said he
was deeply impressed with the sentiments
expressed in Brother Mitchell's prayer,
(which was offered at his solicitation.) he
had heard a great deal about the people of
Laie and had come in person to see them;
the sentiments of their shepherd were such
as he wished them to observe; he was aston-
ished to see the number of children, he had
never seen so many for the number of
grown people in any district he had visited.
His Majesty was followed by his Excellency
Governor Noa of Kanai, a real clever look-
ing old gentlemen, who was perfectly de-
lighted with all he saw. The speechifying
closed with a short one from Brother Mitch-
ell who seemed fully charged for the occa-
sion. He explained some of the objects of
our being here, which were to teach the
people the principles of life, how to improve
their social condition to be industrious and
self-sustaining; that they, being a branch
of the house of Israel, the Lord would
gather a remnant of them into His fold.
He blest the King and told him that if he
would aid in the good work of redeeeming
his people, his reign should be filled with
peace, prosperity and longevity. The spirit
of the Lord manifestly rested upon us all.
The King said he was greatly impressed
with what had been spoken, and we have 
since heard of his high appreciation of it.
Dinner being ready they partook of our
hospitality to their hearts content and de-
parted with a “God speed” to all.
	Yesterday, Bros. M. B. Young, B. String-
ham, and W. H. Branch, left for the fields
of labor appointed them at our late Confer-
ence. Bro. Y. goes to Maui, Bro. S. to
Kanai, and Bro. B. to Hawaii. They will
be separated from us and from each other
until next Conference. They are brave fel-
lows, full of faith and good aspirations.
God bless them!	*	*	*	*	*
	Brother Mitchell's labors are such that he
never rests a moment it seems to me. But
he is where duty calls, his duties being so
numerous that time for needful recreation
he has none. He tells me to do as the Na-
tives say so often, “Hoamanawanui.” (Be
patient.) And I suppose it would not be out
of place to get you to recommend the same
for the consideration of the brethren to
whom he should have written but for want
of time.
	Our diet consists principally of rice, sweet
potatoes, flour, beef, brown sugar and poi.
Brother M. makes beef and poi his princi-
pal living. Poi is the food most adapted to
this climate. The children eat it sometimes,
and they keep quite healthy.	     *	      *
					M. MITCHELL.


﻿Old Jim G——was a mighty mean man,
but when he joined the church, people
thought it might make some improvement,
so one of the elders called on him for a
small contribution. Jim heard him pa-
tiently through and then responded: “I tell
you what it is, Brother A——, if I find my
religion genuine, I will pay Brother D——a
dollar the next time he comes; but I’ll be
blowed if I like to pay money for an article
before I know it’s all right.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
      CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							   Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, June 1, 1874.


THE SEX.

	MISS Alta M. Hulett, the lady lawyer of
Chicago, has just won an important suit.
	IT is announced that Queen Victoria will
visit Germany during the coming summer.
	AN English lady has promised $25,000
for the purpose of supplying Jerusalem with
water.
	MISS Ella Hoffman, daughter of the ex-
Governor of New York, is said to be en-
gaged to the son of an English nobleman.
	THE Duchess of Edinburgh, it is report-
ed, is pouting over the common-place ap-
pearance of her new home, the Clarence
House.
	MISS Lizzie Perry of Holyoke, Mass., took
the highest rank among all the students of
the grammar school in that city, at the
monthly examination for April.
	THE Emperor of Austria has just confer-
red on Mme. Adelina Patti the title of Kam-
mersaengerla (Singer of the Imperial House),
an honorary distinction very rarely be-
stowed.
	NOTWITHSTANDING the danger, ladies still
entrust themselves to Hymen, even at the 
risk of getting in the milkyway, and not
knowing whether they will make land or 
water.
	MISS Garrison, in Council Bluffs, Iowa,
has created quite a stir by speaking in sev-
eral saloons. At first she was roughly treat-
ed by the crowd, but since then has met with 
greater favor.
	THE Duchess of Lancaster, who is better
known as Queen Victoria, received last year
from her duchy the substantial income of
$500,000. In 1847, this property brought to
her about $150,000.
	MISS Rebecca Rice has been called to the
Professorship of Mathematics in Antioch
College, Yellow Springs, Ohio. Miss Rice
has been studying for some time in Europe,
and brings to the position ripe scholarship
and experience as a teacher.
	MLLE. Zaire Thalberg, the daughter of
Thalberg, the pianist, is now in Paris, and
her early appearance on the lyric stage is to
be expected. It is said she promises to be-
come as great a singer as her father is a pi-
anist. Mlle. Thalberg is just sixteen, having
been born in New York in 1858.
	JULIA Sumner Hastings, the only surviv-
ing sister of the late Senator Sumner, has
written from San Francisco to the Massachu-
setts Legislative Committee, thanking them
for the tenderness and care with which they
performed the funeral services of her illus-
trious brother.
	ALICE Mason Sumner, the divorced wife
of the late lamented Senator, has filed a pe-
tition in the Probate Court, asking that her
name may be changed to that of Alice Ma-
son, for the reason that "she has been di-
vorced from her late husband, who has since
deceased, and desires to resume her maiden
name.
	MRS. Hicks of New York, the lady whom
Gen. Schenck of Ohio proposes to take back
to London as his bride, has quite a romantic
history. By birth she is a South American.
Her parents, North Americans and North-
erners, were living in Brazil when she was
born. Her name is Annetta; but her lineage
is English, not Spanish. She married an
elderly, very wealthy man, but lived in re-
tirement until after his death.
	A young girl named Kate Curry, residing
a few miles south of Galesburg, Ill., was one
day noticed by an engineer on the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy Railroad, endeavor-
ing to extricate a pet lamb that had got its
foot fast in a cattle-guard. In her anxiety
to save her pet, she did not heed the whistle
of the engine. Just before the engine
reached them, the lamb was extricated and
bounded away, but she was struck by the
pilot of the engine and thrown some fifteen
feet from the track. She was found with a
deep gash in her head and in an insensible
condition. Medical assistance being called,
she soon recovered.


FROM KANAB.

				Wednesday, May 13th.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Brother John R. Young and company re-
turned home yesterday. They had no
trouble with the Indians, and the Lord ruled
everything for their good; for which we
feel very thankful. It certainly looked as
though they were sure to have some diffi-
culty; the Navijoes are very angry. We
have had a day of Thanksgiving to-day. A
few people met at the Bishop's this morning
and cooked dinner for the brethren who
have been over the river, and have been
brought back through all the dangers, by
the hand of the Lord,		H. M. B.


OUR THIRD BIRTHDAY.

	As we enter upon our third year, there is an
agreeable charm to us, in reviewing the labors
of the past two years, in which we have realized
much satisfaction and, comparatively, little dis-
appointment. So far, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
of Salt Lake City has unquestionably reached
the object of its designers, even more fully than
their brightest hopes could at first have led
them to anticipate. It has greatly assisted, by
the influence which it has created and sus-
tained, meager though it may appear, in arous-
ing thousands of women, in the midst of the
Latter-day Saints, to a new sense of the obli-
gations resting upon them as daughters, sisters,
wives and mothers; as social beings, as citizens,
as WOMEN. Many who might never have be-
lieved themselves capable of writing for the
press, or scarcely of forming in their own minds,
ideas which could be of public interest, and
who could find no time even for reading, are
becoming happily familiarized with these pro-
fitable means of intellectual culture. We have
received numerous little "gems" for publica-
tion, accompanied with the apology, "It is my
first attempt." In reading such, a feeling of
sympathetic pride that the effort has been made,
and a realization of the diffidence with which it
has been forwarded is always present with us,


and we hope, for the author's sake, it may not
be the last.
	We would urge our Sisters to continue their
reading, thinking and writing; for these exer-
cises, properly pursued, are true methods of ac-
quiring and communicating intelligence. And
because a woman is a wife and mother, with
home and family cares to claim the larger por-
tion of her time and attention, is no reason
why the privilege of improving her mental
faculties should be withheld from her; or that
she should voluntarily lay it aside for things of
less importance to herself and to future genera-
tions.	
	In contemplating the vastness of the future
extending before the women of Utah, we would
impress upon them, so far as we have the power
of doing so, the necessity of THEIR being dili-
gent, enterprising and above all United in the
noble works which they will be called to per-
form, to assist in the regeneration of mankind.
	And for their EXPONENT, inasmuch as it has
made nearly as many friends as acquaintances
during its humble career so far—as little cause
for regrets have occured in the events of its
past life, and as its present prospects are favor-
able considering the universal cry of "hard
times," we cheerfully and hopefully prognosti-
cate for it a lively and useful future; thanking
God and our many friends for past blessings
and favors and trusting to the same powers for
encouragement and aid in times to come.


TO R. S. PRESIDENTS, AND AGENTS.

	At a meeting of the EXPONENT Committee
of Consultation,  held at this office, May, 30th,
it was considered that large towns, such as
Ogden and Provo, should have one or more
agents, for each ward or precinct. Miss C.
H. Horne was directed to write to the Presi-
dents of the Relief Societies, in the above
named cities, requesting them to appoint the
requisite agents. It was also decided that
Presidents of Relief Societies, in places where
there are no agents, should be requested through
the EXPONENT to appoint capable agents who
will take an active interest in promoting its
circulation. The list of agents formerly pub-
lished for this city, having proved not fully
satisfactory, it was deemed advisable by the
committee to publish the following revised list:

	1st Ward, Mrs. Margarette Steel,
	2nd	"	"	Jane Rickard,
	3rd	"	"	Zurviah G. Eardley,
	4th	"	Miss Minnie Hague,
	5th and 6th Ward, Mrs. Ann Brimley,
	7th Ward, Mrs. Eunice Foster,
	8th 	"	"	Lucy Steel,
	9th	"	"	Sarah Grow,
	10th	"	"	Charlotte Fawcett,
	11th	"	"	Mary A. Freeze,
	12th	"    Miss 	Mary A. Rockwood,
	13th	"	Mrs. Elvira S. Barney,
	14th	"	"	Wilmirth East
	15th	"   Miss 	Sarah E. Russell
	15th	"	Mrs. Ann D. McAllister,
	16th	"	"	Mercy R. Thompson,
	17th	"	"	J. Howe,
	18th	"	"	Margaret P. Young,
	19th	"	"	Adelaide Ridges,
	19th	"    Miss 	Caroline Raleigh,
	20th	"	Mrs. Sarah Moor.
	Big Cottonwood, Mrs. H. W. Brinton,
	"		"		"   B. M. Moses.


A PETITION.

FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC.
	The following petition which was presented
to the Mayor and City Council, on the 19th ult.,
was read, and received by that body, and a mo-


tion was passed to grant, as far as the laws will
admit, the solicitations therein offered.

"To the Mayor and City Council of Salt Lake
			City.

	"Gentlemen.—You will all admit the fact
that the present traffic in spirituous liquor is
demoralizing to society. Through those influ-
ences which are connected with drinking sa-
loons the unsuspecting, and especially the
young, are exposed to and acquire pernicious
habits greatly to the detriment of the rising
generation. From causes which need not be
herein stated, this evil has been introduced
into our midst, and its increase has been, from
year to year, fearfully apparent.
	"To you, City Fathers, we look and fervently
appeal for the remedy against this growing evil,
this blighting traffic, destructive to both soul
and body.
	"However large the revenue your treasury
may receive from the issuing of licenses for
this polluting trade, we ask, what is that, in
comparison with the high consideration of
moral worth and manly, Godlike intellect now
being drawn into nets rife with poisonous influ-
ences? Viewing it as a pestilential disease,
which demands a speedy and powerful check,
we, the undersigned women of Salt Lake City,
do herein earnestly petition your honorable
board that you will not license the sale of in-
toxicating drink.
	"In appealing to you we feel confident that
we are pleading with men of upright conscien-
ces; men of intelligence and sound judgment;
thoughtful, reflecting and considerate men,
who regard the welfare of society; men to
whom words need not be multiplied, and to
whom, therefore, we cheerfully and respect-
fully submit this petition.
	"SALT LAKE CITY,
						"May 17th, 1874."
	Four thousand ladies of this city who affixed
their names to the above petition, are gratified
with, and thank the City Fathers for the kind
attention which it has received. They also still
trust implicitly, that all that can be, will be
done to accomplish the good design in behalf
of which this step has been taken.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	SILK WORM EGGS.—I have some forty
ounces of silk worm eggs and a large number
of mulberry trees, and the Sisters who wish to
raise silk are welcome to the eggs and to gather
the leaves for feeding. Those wishing the eggs
are requested to call immediately.
						BRIGHAM YOUNG.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	BY PRIVATE communication from Mrs. M. A.
Maughan of Logan Cache Co., dated May 25th,
we are informed that scarlet fever and whoop-
ing cough are prevalent among the children of
that city and adjacent settlements. Weather
extremely warm, trees in full bloom.
	FROM THE "Utah Pomologist," of St. George,
we learn that grain and vegetables are putting
on their best appearance in that Southern coun-
try, and that they have been planted in great-
er breadth this season than in any other year.
Light frosts have injured the fruit a little,
particularly the apricots in some localities.
	THIS DAY, June 1st, we may mark as a mem-
orable one. Besides being the seventy-third an-
niversary of the birth-day of President Brigham
Young, it has been set apart for the citizens of
Salt Lake and the soldiery of Camp Douglas to
celebrate as "Decoration Day," and is also the
second anniversary of the birthday of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	BRANCHES OF the United Order are being
organized in the different wards of this city,
and in other settlements throughout the Terri-
tory. Apparently, the work does not progress


rapidly enough for the satisfaction of some.
Let such be patient, and remember that the
world was not made in one day, and that all
large bodies necessarily move slowly. It should
be realized by all who are interested, that but
little is likely to be accomplished in this, the
first year of general co-operative movements.
and none should be discouraged because of not
being called immediately into action. Let
each one be in readiness, and gradually the
best abilities of all will be brought to light and
put to use.
	THE BEAR Lake Monster, of which much
has been heard and written, is again described;
this time by Bishop William Budge, of Paris
Oneida County, Idaho, who saw the creature
at not more than thirty-five yards distance.
He says "Its face and part of its head were
distinctly seen, covered with fur, or short hair
of a light snuff color. The face of the animal
was apparently flat, very wide between the
eyes and tapering to the nose, with very full,
large eyes and prominent ears, resembling
those of a horse, but scarcely as long. The
whole face, in shape, was like that of a fox,
but so large that the space between the eyes
equaled that of the distance between the eyes
of a common cow. It did not look ferocious,
and was in no hurry to go, but kept moving
slowly, then diving again, came up and moved
off into the Lake as fast as a man could walk."
By giving attention to the above description,
the managers of the Salt Lake Theatre may be
enabled to make some corrections in their, not
altogether faultless representation of this sin-
gular animal, in the grand Christmas effection,
“Nymph of the Lurleburg.”


﻿OFF ON A VISIT.

				Smithfield, May 17th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT;
	Dear Sister:—I left S. L. City on the 11th
inst., for a short visit to the “delightful north.”
On the cars, coming up, I had the pleasure
of making a number of new acquaintances,
through the courtesy of Miss C., which add-
ed much to the enjoyment of my journey.
	When we arrived at Ogden, it was rain-
ing, which rendered the changing of cars
not very agreeable. And upon reaching
the cars which were designed to take us to
our place of destination, we found them al-
ready filled to overflowing; a result
doubtless, of Conference having closed the
previous afternoon. While contemplating
this rather unexpected condition of things,
and feeling somewhat at a loss to know
how we, Miss C. and myself, were to be
provided for, the thought was suggested
that we might occupy the platform; which
we did in preference to remaining in Ogden
over night.
	By taking this “stand” on the “platform,”
(the only convenient one which presented
itself,) we had an excellent opportunity of
viewing the country through which we
traveled. The meadows and fields, looking
delightfully fresh and green after the little
shower of rain, added wonderfully to the
surrounding scenery, which, taken alto-
gether, was to me a source of lively pleas-
ure. Grand, majestic cliffs, towering to
the sky, their tall peaks covered with snow,
contrasted strangely with the open ground
over which we were traveling. Rocky and
dangerous as those rugged mountains ap-
pear, yet one feels while gazing upon them,
that to ascend their steep, broad sides, and
to reach, perchance, some spot where mor-
tal foot had never trod before, would be a
charming and invigorating exercise.


Logan we found, apparently just slipping
off the last remnants of her Winter garb,
and adorning herself in lovely Spring ha-
biliments.
	Arriving at S., one attraction in particu-
lar drew my attention; that was the beauti-
ful, clear stream of water which flows
through, I should judge, about the center
of the settlement. The banks of this stream,
shaded as they are on either side with tall,
waving trees, form localities which are
pleasant enough to satisfy the most fastidi-
ous.
	Altogether, S. has a very pleasing loca-
tion, situated at the foot of the mountain,
and is decidedly a most agreeable place for
rusticating. To-day I attended meeting,
passing a very comfortable Sabbath. As a
speciality, I might make mention of the
many good-looking children I have noticed
since coming into S.—Very Respectfully
Yours.						C. H. H.


DIVERSIONS.

	"WATTS on the mind?”—Too often noth-
ing.
	A LEGAL tender.—A lawyer minding his
baby.
	IF you throw a man out of the windwo
what does he always fall against?—Against
his inclination.
	A YANKEE lady pictures a good man as
one who is keerful of his clothes, don’t
drink sperits, kin read the bibil ’thout spell-
in’ the words, and kin eat a cold dinner on
wash day to save the wimmin folks from
cookin’."
	LONELY.—The following colloquy was
overheard by a lady:
Sighing lover (before the kitchen): “Is it
lonely ye are there without me?” A voice
within replies: “Not at all, Henry. Wil-
lie’s been here for an hour.”
	A FRENCHMAN being about to move his
shop, his landlord inquired the reason, stat-
ing at the same time that it was considered
a very good stand for business. The French-
man replied: “Oh, yes, he’s a very good
stand for ze business. Me stand all day;
for nobody come to make me move.”
	SERVED HIM RIGHT.—“I say, conductor,
do you know that good-looking lady there,
with a book?”
	“Yes, I have seen her a few times.”
	“By Jove, she’s splendid!”
	“Yes, I think she is.”
	“I would like to occupy the seat with
her.”
	“Why don’t you ask her?”
	“I don’t know but it would be out of or-
der.”
	“It would not If she was willing to have
you occupy it. Of course you claim to be a
gentleman?"
	"O, certainly, If you are acquainted with
her, give me an introduction; that is, if you
have no objection.”
	“Certainly not.”
Fixing his hair,mustache and whiskers in
becoming style, he followed the conductor,
who, on reaching the seat where the lady
sat, said, with a peculiar twinkle in his eye:
	“My wife, Mr.—. of New York, who as-
sures me that he will die before reaching
Detroit if he does not form your acquain-
tance.”
	The gentleman stammered, stuttered,
grew red in the face, muttered out some
excuse, and returned to his seat, leaving
the lady, in company with her husband, to 
enjoy the joke.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IMMORTALITY.

FROM THE "DESERET NEWS," DEC. 1865.

	Yes, Immortality: That bosom word,
To me, has inspiration in it. Love
Of life, is innate in the human soul:
'Tis interwoven in our natures. 'Twas
Decreed in the grand council of the Gods,
When canvassing the great eternal scheme
Concerning destinies of man and earth,
That mankind should inherit love of life;
Else, man, grown weary of a world of woes
And fickle tides of happiness, would haste
To make his exit, and e'en God Himself
Had failed to keep enough, as instruments,
On earth, to execute His purposes.

	Thus death, the happy counterpoise to life,
Has long been branded with fell hideousness—
False-styled "the king of terrors," 'monster' fiend,"
"Insatiate archer" and whole catalogues
Of horrid names; to form a barrier
Of fear, lest man, with suicidal hand.
Should clip the brittle thread of life and rush
   In multitudes, into eternity.

	"Christ came, them to redeem who thro' the fear
Of death, were all their life time subject to
Its bondage." To the faithful Saints of God,
Who live to do his will, death has no sting;
'Tis a kind porter to conduct us where
A realm of light and beauty shines around—
A world of glorious Immortality!
A World? Yes, worlds of vast immensity.
And what of us? We'll be our very selves,
Free from all imperfections consequent
Upon the curse, entailed thro' Adams fall:
T' enjoy life's sweet associations, such
As parents, children, husbands, wives and friends—
With Gods and Goddesses—with the noblesse
Of all eternities, and freely bask
In full, bright sunbeams of intelligence,
With legal access to its mighty fount—
A life divested of mortality,
Yet life as real as existence here.

	I've had a taste of mortal suffering:
I've seen my fellows drink its cup fill'd to
The brim and running o'er, until the pulse
Of life was clogg'd in every wheel—until
Nature's deep agonies outweigh'd the love
Of life, and yet the throbbing pulse beat on.
But, thanks to God, there is an end decreed
To human sorrow, pain and misery.
I aim—I live for Immortality,
Life, knowledge, bliss, without one stopping point.

	A thought that I should ever cease to be,
Would paralyze all other thought; would chill
The brightest beams of joy, and would crush out
Each holy aspiration of the heart—
Eradicate that precious organ, hope—
Embargo enterprize, and dry up all
The tributary streams of happiness.

	There's nothing short of Immortality,
Can satisfy the earnest cravings of
That spark of pure divinity, which God
Implanted, as the fine, constituent part
Of beings, organized with attributes.
Like His—the germ of an eternal life:
	
	Crown of all wisdom, sum of good to man,
Scheme of the God's, redemption's glorious plan;
This, through the resurrection's power combines
Immortal bodies and immortal minds.
								E. R. Snow.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Good Hints for Mothers.—Affection often fails
to attain the best ends, through unwise direction.
There was one known as a "devoted mother"—
untiring, patient, faithful, and wishing to do her
duty. But she failed to see that "many women
are admirable house keepers, but not home-makers."
When her children were quite small, she was, dili-
gently caring for their bodily needs, and forgot the
demands to be made by and through "the many
sidedness" of the immortal nature. She neglected
society, and so, for the want of the necessary
stimulus, grew careless in her dress, manners, and
speech; Having, as she said, no time to spare, she
gave up books and papers, until she had little
knowledge of anything outside her own home-
world, which she was unconsciously making piti-
fully narrow. What was the consequence? Her
family grew up with many natural gifts; but no
﻿grace of manner, taste in dress, or general literary
culture. As they went out into the world, they
began to blame their mother for being “old fash-
ioned,” and to lament that some of the money so
carefully hoarded “to give them a start in life,”
had not been spent earlier in making home pleasant,
and in cultivating a taste for books and music.
Correct language at home would, by the power of
example, have done more for them than all the
tedious rules studied at school. Simpler fare at
table, with the hospitality affording more social
intercourse, would have gained them life-long friends
and an ease of manner which after years could
never supply. A wiser economy of time would
have led the mother occasionally into the school-
room, to show a hearty co-operation with the teach-
ers and sympathy with the children in their work
there. Perhaps these children grew up to be
Christians, and accomplished much; but they
might have filled a larger sphere, and been nobler
in character, with a different training.

	Recipe for making good yeast.—Boil a handful
of hops and eight good-sized potatoes, pared in
one gallon of water. The hops should be tied
loosely in a rag. When the potatoes are done
mash them thoroughly or grate them, first pouring
the liquor into another vessel. Pour the liquor
over the potatoes again when mashed, adding one-
half cup of sugar and one-fourth cup of salt. Let
it boil a minute but stir to prevent sticking. Use
no flour, as it is more liable to sour when flour is
used. Pour off into an earthen vessel to cool, and
when nearly cold add one cup of good yeast. In
a few hours it is ready for use: This yeast will
keep sweet one month in the hottest weather, if
covered closely and placed in a cool cellar, and it
makes splendid bread if properly managed. Bread
should not be salted where this yeast is used. If
prefered, this yeast or part of it, may be made in-
to cakes and dried which will last six months—
though it is better to make fresh as often as once
in three months—by adding fresh corn meal until
a stiff dough is obtained. Work into a smooth
roll and slice with a knife into cakes one-half inch
thick. Dry in the open air but shaded from the
sun.

	Another.—Boil a pint bowl full of hops in two
gallons of water, strain and add a teacupful of
flour, one of brown sugar, a teaspoonful of salt.
No yeast is required to raise it. Let it stand
three days in a warm place, and it will then begin
to foam. Then boil three pounds of potatoes,
mash fine and add them to the yeast, and stir the
whole well together; then put into a jug and cork
tight and set in a cool place. It should be made
at least two weeks before using, and it will keep
any length of time, and grow better all the while.
A small teacupful is sufficient for six loaves of
bread. When this is gone, make a new jug full in
the same way, and keep it corked tight, and you
never need go to the baker’s or brewer’s for yeast.
Since writing the above, my wife opened a large
bottle full of this yeast, that had been sealed and
put in the cellar for more than a year, and the
usual quantity raised her bread splendidly.—Ru-
ral New Yorker.

	Salt and Milk Rising Bread.—Take half a tea-
spoonful of salt to a pint of warm water and stir
in flour enough to make a thick batter. The dish
used, which with the spoon should be thoroughly
cleansed and scalded, should be a little more than
two-thirds full, and set in a warm place until the
batter rises, so as to fill it. The most common
way is to put the rising in warm water and set it
where it will keep at quite a warm temperature;
but some use cloth or paper to exclude the cool air
instead of placing in water. The time in which
the rising will sufficiently ferment is usually from
five to seven hours, according to the degree of
warmth and the kind of flour used. When “light,”
take a quantity of flour corresponding to the
amount of bread desired and stir in scalding (not
boiling) water enough to scald one-third, then add
cold water (or milk, which is better,) enough to
[right column]
cool the scalded flour so that it will not scald the
rising; put in the rising and stir vigorously until
you have a thick batter and put in a warm place to 
rise. When light and puffy stir as thick as pos-
sible with a spoon, then mix with the hands until
kneadable, cut off in loaves of a size to half fill
your baking tins, knead thoroughly, shape to, and
put in your tins and again put in a warm place to 
rise. When the loaves have doubled in size put
in a moderately heated oven and bake from one-
half to three-quarters of an hour according to the
size of the loaves, and you will have bread as
moist, spongy and eatable as fermented bread can
be. Bread of unbolted flour can be made in the
same way, but is better stirred to a stiff batter
and baked in deep dishes instead of being kneaded
and baked in shallow tins. Milk rising and salt
rising bread are the same with the exception that
one half a teacup of new milk is added to the ris-
ing for the former and is preferable to all water.
As you value good bread and good health, never
put ginger, saleratus, or any of the other useless
things that some people deem necessary, in your
sponge or rising.


﻿	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE ten hour bill for manufactories has
passed the Massachusetts Senate.
	TWO hundred and nine wild ducks in one
day, is the boast of an Illinois sportsman. 
	THE “Tichborne” number of the London 
Graphic reached a sale of 200,000 copies.
	PENNSYLVANIA stands first in the list of
 coal producing states, Ohio second, and Illi-
nois third.
	A JOVIAL party of five Indian skeletons
sitting in one grave round a succotash ket-
tle has been disinterred at Niantic, Conn.
	COAL has been struck at Princeton, Ind.,
at a depth of 200 feet. Underneath the
vein is a stratum of fire-clay seven feet
thick.
	THE Scientific American predicts that the
time will soon come when ice will be manu-
factured in all our great cities at a dollar a
ton.
	A SPANIEL named curly is the regular
mail carrier between Lake of The Woods,
Dakota, and the Minnesota line, twelve
miles away.
	THE mercantile navies of the world com-
prise 61,429 vessels, and a total tonage of 18,
514,029. Of these Great Britain has 3,061
steamers and 20,832 sailing vessels; the
United States coming next, with 403 steam-
ers and 6,786 sailing vessels.
	IN the population of nations, China ranks
first, with 425,213,152; the British Empire
second, with 199,817,000; and Russia third,
with 82,172,022. In density of population
Belgium stands first, with 451 per square
mile; England is next, with 389.
	COMMODORE Vanderbuilt has donated an
additional $100,000 to the university bear-
ing his name at Nashville, Tenn., to be used
as a building fund, in order that the univer-
sity buildings may be completed in accord-
ance with the plans and specifications here-
tofore approved by him.
	SUEZ CANAL.—120 vessels passed through
the Suez Canal in March. The following
statement shows the increase in the receipts
compared with former years.—In March,
1872, the tonage was 116,253 tons; receipts,
l,333.434f. In March, 1873, 202,495 tons;
receipts, 2,246,278f. In March, 1874, 229,
000 tons; receipts, 2,506,000f. derived from
transit dues only


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EXPONENT:—
     I have long thought of writing a few of
my thoughts for your consideration, but
have never found courage to begin until
now, and I do not know how I will succeed,
even after waiting so long. I take much
pleasure in reading the EXPONENT; and
feel impressed to bear testimony through it
to the truth of this great work in which we
are engaged. For I know it is true. I was
much pleased with an article by Blanche
Beechwood,entitled “Our Daughters,” print-
ed in your columns some weeks ago. Many
of us do not realize the responsibilities that
are resting upon us, as mothers in Israel.
Do we not allow ourselves sometimes, to
make remarks in the presence of our
daughters, that are likely to prejudice their
minds against that one great and glorious
principle, Plurality? A principle which we
know is calculated to exalt us to a greater
glory than we would otherwise attain. My
dear sisters, let us strive to look on the
bright side, and not let our minds become
clouded; seek to cultivate a spirit of meek-
ness and cheerfulness in submitting to all
that is good. And if our husbands do not
always do just as WE think they should do,
let us remember they are mortal like our-
selves, and liable to err; therefore, instead 
of finding fault with them, let us look about
us, and see if we are not to blame; have we
not done or said something that deserves
the treatment we receive? If we find we
are not to blame, then in all sincerity we
can pray for them; and the Lord will hear
our supplications if we go to Him with the
right feeling. I know these principles to be
correct by experience; I do not guess at
what I write. I have lived in plurality
thirteen years, and my faith in that princi-
ple is stronger, much stronger than it was
in the beginning. Would I be released
from it if I could? Not for worlds! My
prayer is continually that I may hold out
faithful to the end, and gain a salvation with
my husband and the rest of his family.
		A FRIEND TO THE EXPONENT.

		SMITHFIELD, April 11th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
     Feeling a deep interest in your welfare
and the prosperity of the EXPONENT, and
desiring that my name should be numbered
with those of my sisters, I venture to ad-
dress you. I have been thinking of the
goodness of God and the blessings extended
to His Saints; and wondering how any one
could consider that we are not a highly fa-
vored people. At present, we have the
word of the Lord given to us through His
servants, as fast, and faster sometimes than
we can learn to live by it. And we antici-
pate schooling ourselves, until we can live
in such a way as to receive the words of life
from our Father’s own lips. Will it not be
sweet to hear Our Heavenly Father talk to
us, and to see the approving smiles of our
blessed Savior, while we pour forth thanks
and gratitude for the saving power which
has redeemed us from death and sin, and
brought us back into their presence? To
receive from lips that cannot be mistaken,
the Gospel of Jesus Christ! Are not these
hopes, these blessings worth living for?
Should not our sacred faith cause our hearts
to be glad and our souls to rejoice? I think
so. And I think that those who have such
great sympathy for the women of Utah and
so much to say about them, had better con-
trol their feelings and save their breath.
They will have quite enough to do to pre-
pare themselves for the great day of the
Lord, which is near at hand.	M. G. H.


A WOMAN'S DEFENSE.

   A lady writer thus communicates to the
“Santa Barbara Index”.
   My husband is a specimen of the Ameri-
can nobility, brimful of patriotism and
Websterian sentiment; and, of course, a
great believer in, and admirer of, the Ameri-
can Press.	
   The other evening he was reading aloud
the news of the week. Among the rest
was an eloquent article upon the extrava-
gance of American women. 
   The writer of the aforesaid article de-
clares that the main cause of our present
hard times is the excessive importation of
foreign goods, to the neglect of our own
manufactures. The earnest expressions of
the writer, and the evident discouragement
of my good husband at this shocking state
of affairs, really alarmed me. Now, in the
seven years of our wedded life, it has been
my first care to be truly a helpmeet for him.
So,in the loving spirit of self-sacrifice,I said:
“My dear Dick, if it please you, we won’t
use anything imported for a year, and see
how we get on.” With a grateful look, and
the smile which I like so well, he ex-
claimed:
   “Just like my own little wife! if every
woman in the land were so loyal to its in-
terests, the country would indeed be safe.”
   Now, I pride myself on being practical,
so I proposed beginning in the morning.
“Let me see. No coffee, no tea, no choco-
late! How is that Dick?”
   “We’ll except the coffee, wife; you know
it is the main part of my breakfast.”
   Morning came. When I set the table for
breakfast, I put on the brown table-cover, be-
cause my white table-linen is of Irish manu-
facture. Of course, there were no napkins;
but, then, it is well to be self denying in
small things.
   I had the very spirit of July Fourth, and
so drank none of the amber-colored fluid in
which Dick delighted, and my glass of wa-
ter madq him look rather uncomfortable,
but he said nothing. True to the instincts
of our “business man,” he took out his
watch. “Dick,” said I, softly, “English
chronometer.”	
   “Bless you! so it is. Please except that.”
Up to the store he went, and with his pleas-
ant “Good morning,” he added, as usual,
“Any commissions?”
   “No, dear, I am coming up by and by.”
   After making the house tidy, and seeing
sundry dinner duties done, I went up town
to my husband’s store, Now, in our small
town, every merchant has general merchan-
dise, from millinery to molasses. And our
family supplies are usually from the store
As I entered, Dick was showing stockings
and gloves to some ladies. “These are genu-
ine Alexandre’s, imported from Paris, the
latest style! And these, ladies, are the very
best English hosiery.” So he went on.
And he sold the articles too; for they were
really worth the price asked for them. Then
I produced my memoranda: “Pins, thread,
currants, raisins, citron, and cinnamon.”
   “Have you American pins?”
   “O yes,” said Dick; “but they are quite
inferior to the English article.”
   “Now, Dick, you know I’m to be a loyal
American woman; so give me those of our
home manufacture and the American Coates’
thread if you please.”
   “How about the American pudding mate-
rials?” queried Dick, with a serio-comic
face. “Please except them, wife; you know
the pudding is the crownng article at din-
ner.” Of course I excepted them; for was
not Dick’s mother coming over to dine with
us to-morrow, and accompany us to the
grand party of the winter? On my way
home, I met Dick’s sister—about my age.
“What shall you wear to the party?” was
her first question. Now, I had just made
up a handsome silk—a Christmas present
from Dick—and had intended to wear it.
Even the full ruffle of real Valenciennes
lace; and the new three-button gloves, and
the stylish French gaiters were all ready.
But it occurred to me that all these were
foreign frippery, such as was ruining our
country: and I cast about for some other ar-,
rangements, to the great disgust of Dick’s
sister who asserted that she “was out of all
patience with me.” I confess I did want
to wear them; but what true wife prefers
her own adornment to the desire of pleas-
ing her husband?
   Dinner-time came, and with it came Dick.
His face was all aglow with delight, over
the acquisition of a splendid looking horse,
which he called me out to see and admire.
“A real English thorough bred,brought over
by one of my friends.”
   “What you Dick, buying an IMPORTED
horse!”
   The question was out; before I realized
how bad it would sound. Just like fault-
finding, for all the world! Poor Dick! his
enthusiasm was gone. Dinner was a very
silent meal in comparison with our usually
cheerful time and I wasn’t sorry to see him
go. I put on my best new Merrimac print,
and fastened my plain linen color, after
many blunt points of my new pins had tried
my patience. There was a pile of work
ready for the sewing machine.  I adjusted
my new thread and began its cheerful click.
What was the matter? My thread broke,
knotted, unwound in several different
places at once. Resolutely keeping my
temper, in earnest devotion to home manu-
factures, I tried again and again; but had to
give up at last, rather than ruin my gar-
ments before they were made. The morrow
was fuller of trials and mortifications. My
best table-linen, and my best China were
from Dresden. My dinner was a success,
and was praised by Dick’s mother; but the
last remnant of my loyalty went utterly to
the winds when Dick whispered, “Mother
hopes your new dress is stylish, and that
your Elizabethan ruff is au fait.”
   His very words imported!
   And now, Mr. Editor, while my husband
is smoking his choice Havana cigar, I en-
treat you to save and protect us from the un-
sparing critics of the day. No doubt there
are a few hundred butterflies among us, who
are only brown-coated wrens, easily satis-
fied at a moderate cost, and doing the ser-
vice of our own households! Can you not
defend us from such dreadful charged?


LEIGH Hunt was asked by a lady if he
would not venture on an orange. "Mad-
am," he replied, "I should be happy to do
so, but I am afraid I should tumble off."

	"ANNA, dear, if I should attempt to spell
Cupid, why could I not get beyond the first
syllable?" Anna gave it up, whereupon
William said, "Because I came to c, u, of
course, and I cannot go any further."

	MIGHT AND MAIN.—Lord Charles Som-
erset was telling a long story about his walk-
ing in the woods at Cape Town, Africa, one
day, when he came suddenly upon a huge
shaggy lion. "Thinking to frighten him,"
said the noble lord, "I ran at him with all
my might." "Whereupon," said another,
interrupting, "he ran away with all his
mane." "Just so," said his lordship.


8					﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿SPLINTERS.

			   LOCAL.
     Every decision which has been rendered
by Chief Justice McKean, and reviewed by
the Supreme Court of the United States, so
far, has been reversed......The city is at this
season favored with many pleasure seeking
visitors from different parts of the world. ...
A little boy had the misfortune to stumble
across the street car track near this office,
the other day, and spill some yeast which
he was carrying; of which a gentleman, be-
ing a witness of the scene, made the rele-
vant remark that the yeast couldn’t be very
“strong,” as it didn’t appear to rise.........
Among other distinguished tourists, Cannon
Kingsley, the noted English lecturer and
divine, has lately visited this city......Dr.
Mary H. Barker, of this city, recently per-
formed a very nice operation upon the eye
of Mr. Aaron West of Ogden. The opera-
tion which was for the formation of an arti-
ficial pupil, was successfully executed, and
without accident, Mr. West, who has been
blind for about eight years, will be able to
distinguish objects quite distinctly.

			FOREIGN.

	The Pope is ill......On the occasion of the
birthday of Queen Victoria, the bank of
England and London Stock Exchange were
closed.......It is estimated that France ex-
ports to England one and one half millions
of eggs per day......In Anatolia, Asia Minor,
the famine continues to rage, many having
starved to death........England decides to
erect her several dependencies on the Gold
Coast into a colony to be presided over by a
governor......The Roman Catholic Church,
it is reported, is now persecuted in nearly
all the countries of Europe.

			PERSONAL.

	The Crown Prince of Holland, it is report-
ed, will marry the Princess Thyra, of Den-
mark.......Thomas and Oswell Livingstone,
sons of the late Dr. Livingstone, have been
presented to the Queen by Sir Bartle Frere
......The Grand Duke Nicholas Constantine
heads the Russian Expedition to explore
the Valley of Amon Daria, in Central Asia
......England receives a special Grant—Nel-
lie—from America......Prince Ferdinand of
Saxony is to marry the Princess Louise of
England in August......Marshal MacMahon,
the present ruler of the French Government,
has received a decoration of the highest
class from the King of Denmark......Mrs.
Charlotte B. Wilbour, President of the New
York Sorosis, has gone to Europe......The
wife of General Sicles is mentioned as the
most beautiful woman in Paris.........Mark
Twain approves of the woman's crusade.

			LITERARY.

	"The Crusader," published by the women
crusaders in New York, promises to advo-
cate every reform calculated to make people
wiser, better, healthier and happier. It will
need a world of wisdom, not to make mis-
takes in judging of right and wrong......One
of the oddest “typographical errors” we
have lately noticed was that in which a con-
temporary in speaking of a man whom it
wished to designate as being “well favored,”
was made to represent him as being “well
flavored”......Kate Field, well known lit-
erary lady, is said to be studying for the
stage......A Crescent city, Cal. editor, claims
to publish the most westerly paper in the
United States, as he says the water of the
Pacific Ocean at high tide, reaches within
ten feet of his office door.........The oldest
newspaper man in Iowa is Hon. George
Paul, who helped to print the first issue of
the “Patriot,” at Fort Madison in 1837......
The “Orchard and Vineyard” is a newsy,
and to us a new paper, which we welcome
as an exchange from Grand Island, Ne-
braska.

			SCIENTIFIC.

	It is the opinion of Sir William Thomp-
son that the needles of mariner’s compasses
in general use are far too large, and that
they should be only one-fourteenth as long
as they are.........Mr. Newall of Gateshead,
England, is said to have the most perfect
and most powerful telescope in the world;
the diameter of the object-glass is twenty-
five inches........A lake recently discovered
in Turkestan, called Lake Issykul, which
appears to have been quite unknown a cen-
tury and a half ago, is said to have buildings
visible from the surface, at its bottom, and
there is evidence of former existence of vil-
lages on the present lake site......In the
eleventh annual report of the Massachusetts
Agricultural College, one of subjects treated
upon is the amount of pressure in the sap
of plants; The highest pressure recorded
was in the case of black birches.

			ARTISTIC.

	The College of Arts and Sciences of the
Central University of Kentucky, has lately
enstalled Dr. Joseph LeConte as President
......At the last Autumn Exhibition of Pic-
tures at the Free Library and Museum of
Liverpool, England, 1,057 works were ex-
hibited, of which 271 were sold at an aggre-
gate sum of about £7,402......John Pye, a
veteran English landscape engraver, lately
died in London......Ivory is considered one
of the finest materials for artistic skill now
known......The Hebrew contribution in the
United States, to the Centennial Celebration
of American Independence is proposed to
be a statue of some kind which the sculptor
Ezekiel will be commissioned to execute....
Great improvements, it is considered, have
been made in Scotland of late, in the de-
signs and manufacturing of personal orna-
ments......An English writer says the fine
manners of the Latin people seem to be the
last legacy of a classic nature which has
come down to modernism.

			GENERAL.

	A Concord boy poured the contents of a
bottle on his leg for sport; the fluid was vit-
riol and the little fellow was so badly burned
as to be crippled for life......A bill for an
amendment to the Constitution, striking out
the word male, was lost in the Massachusetts
Senate, but the Chairman, Hon. Henry S.
Washburn made a grand speech in favor of
the bill......The Senate of New York has
passed a bill which provides for the compul-
sory education of children......The Digger
Indians, it is said, scorn to be grave diggers,
and burn their dead......Paris papers an-
nounce that Madame Bazine is now actually
installed in prison with her husband......The
British Government furnishes free passage
to emigrants to New Zealand, where wages
are high and living expenses low.


AN Aberdeen minister who was catechis-
ing his young parishoners before the con-
gregation, put the usual question to a stout
girl whose father kept a public house,
“What is your name?” No reply. The
question having been repeated, the girl re-
plied, "Nane o' your fun, Mr. Minister, ye
ken my name well enough. D’ye no say
when ye come to our house on a night, ‘Bet,
bring me some ale?’ ”


﻿DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
    His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M.D.
		ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
	Electricity administered when cases requre.
Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal[-]
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

MARY H. BARKER M.D.
Office opposite Old Constitution Building, Main
Street. Office hours - 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.

MRS. CARPENTER
		Physician and Surgeon
Office at the Townsend House, Room No. 50
	
		    H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on
  FIRST SOUTH ST. ½ BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
		      Where he is prepared to do a 
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase. 

			    CLUB RATES
   Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.         -            -         -        -         -      $18.00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
       the club.           -           -         -        -         -      26.00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steal engraving 12x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling  
	price, $2.50      -         -          -          -              34.00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4        -        -    48.00
    Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of the clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in. 
     In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.

VOL. 3.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1874.					NO. 2.﻿


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

   THE NATIONAL congress of brewers pro-
test against the doings of the temperance
movers, which attempt to prove that malt
liquors produce immortality, pauperism and
crime; and they pledge united effort to in-
fluence public opinion in favor of the same,
as wholesome, nutritious and necessary.
They direct a lengthy address to the Presi-
dent and people of the United States, in
which they denounce the movement of the
crusaders as being merely an effort of de-
signing men for personal agrandizement.
The crusaders are evidently waking up
some indivdiuals. Let them proceed.
   REV. DR. John Hall of New York speaks
of the crusade of women in Ohio and else-
where as probably, similar in its effects to
the temperance movement of Father Mat-
hews which some years ago, swept like a
tidal wave over Ireland and portions of Great
Britain and America, and for the time be-
ing, greatly limited drunkenness; and thou-
sands of living, prosperous men, date their
prosperity from that movement. “As a
means of suppressing drinking," says the
Rev. Dr,. “you may call it a failure; as a
means of unspeakable good to all these, you
must call it a success.” There is no doubt
but he is correct in supposing that the pres-
ent temperance movement will also be a
means of salvation to many, though it may
not affect all.
   THERE ARE ninety-nine newspapers pub-
lished in Michigan. Of these, seventy-six
have declared in favor of woman suffrage.
The other twenty-three will doubtless soon
be ashamed to appear against it, and the
woman’s cause will have triumphed in that
State.


[For the EXPONENT

			 RUFFLES.

	La, me! Charlotte, read that again for
grandmother, do. I wern’t noticing till I
I heard you speak about the ruffles.”
     Charlotte read from EXPONENT No. 22,
Vol. 2. “What could look prettier or more
modest, than a pretty, small, trousered foot,
in silk stockings and a neat sandled shoe,
appearing under the skirt of a muslin dress
—the ankles buried as it were in several
rows of lace frills or flounces of fine cam-
bric,” &c.
     “Well I declare,” said grandma, “I never
thought that these old eyes of mine would
ever see the day when the good old fashion
of ruffles would come again. Why there’s
your own mother, child, even before she
could see the daylight, her little head was
completely hid in a heavily wrought cap
with loves of ruffles. Why you wouldn’t
hardly know it was a baby’s head; only
you’d know of course for every body fixed
them so.”
     “But grandmother, the writer of this ar-
ticle is referring to a lady’s under dress, her
pants, you know," observed Charlotte.
“Well, what is the difference, a ruffle’s a
ruffle arn’t it?”
     “Yes, but only think of the almost end-
less task of stitching, and then the outlay of
labor and patience required in this hot,


dusty weather, grandmother, to keep them
neat and in good taste.”
     “I know child, this horrid country isn’t
like old Vermont; and then the Canadians
were glad to help their better off neighbors,
and they were mighty handy too. Your
mother, child, was always rather delicate
when she was young, and she’s had her
white dress ironed often by a young French-
man, who seemed to think it a perfect plea-
sure to work for the Squire’s daughter; and
does not the good book say that the sons of
strangers shall serve you?”
     “Yes grandmother, but if we could bring
ourselves, or others to such torturing toil,
would it not be wrong? Are we not instruc-
ted to practice retrenchment in excessive
labor as well as in expense of material and
time? Indeed, grandmother, is not re-
trenchment in these things, the will of Our
Heavenly Father as expressed by His ser-
vants, the Prophets, unto us?”
     “Well, well, child! the Lord forbid that
your grandmother should ever speak to your
quick ears a word against the blessed Pro-
phets; but, alack a me! arn’t the children
of this generation wise? But why should
our own EXPONENT contain an article of that
kind, telling us about the pretty appearance
of ruffles and such things, if——”
     “Why, grandma, it is merely a ‘clipping’
from another paper, inserted in ours by way
of variety, I suppose, simply to show us how
women dress on the Continent, among the
French, Spanish and Russians.”
						AZURETTA.
     Washington, May 18th, 1874.


[For the EXPONENT.]

			FAULT FINDING.

	The old adage runs in this wise, “Speak
of one’s faults before his face, his virtues
behind his back;” but to this I cannot agree.
	In reproving a friend, we should act
cautiously and gently, not to offend or
wound, and it always has a better effect
when the reproof is given privately. How
bitterly people may be wounded by having
their faults paraded before others, and their
peculiar weaknesses betrayed by, perhaps,
some loved one. I have seen children of
sensitive natures droop under this unneces-
sary punishment. I remember when our
Indian boy was quite a little one, I happened
to speak of a bad habit he had, to a neigh-
bor, not thinking he would notice me.
Looking around I saw his eyes full of tears
and his poor little lip quivering. My
heart condemned me in a moment, and that
was a good lesson to me.
	In watching my children, and trying to
cultivate the good traits of character and
check the evil, as manifested so diversely
in their natures, I have always found it
best, to encourage them to think themselves
capable of doing good; and to lean towards
the good side—the “bright side of the pic-
ture,” rather than to be always ready to
portray its defects. Here is an old maxim
which I think is nearer right, and will
work much better than the one quoted
above:
		"Be to his faults a little blind,
		And to his virtue very kind ”
June 3rd, 1874.			    Anne Niobe.


﻿FLOWERS.

	TIME is the old Justice that examines all
offenders.
	BE not afraid of hard study; it is the
price of learning.
	THE flower of youth never appears more
beautiful than when it bends towards the
Sun of Righteousness.
	GOLDEN WORDS.—In private, watch your
thoughts; in the family, watch your temper;
in company, watch your tongue.
	THE darkest day in any man’s earthly ca-
reer is that wherein he fancies that there is
some easier way of gaining a dollar than by
squarely earning it.
	A FRIEND should be one in whose under-
standing and virtue we can equally confide,
and whose opinion wo can value at once for
its justness and sincerity.
	MENTAL grace is essential to true beauty.
Without it, the fairest form disappoints and
wearies. It is the radiance that sets off
every other charm, and sheds on each its
appropriate hue.
	BY reading we enjoy the dead; by con-
versation, the living; and by contemplation,
ourselves. Reading enriches the memory;
conversation polishes the wit; and contem-
plation improves the judgment.
	THE man who can make his own fire,
black his own boots, carry his own wood,
hoe his own garden, pay his own debts, and
lives without wine and tobacco, need ask no
favor of him who rides in a coach and four.
	AMONG all other virtues, humility, the
loveliest, is pre-eminent. It is the safest
because it is always at anchor; and the man
may truly be said to live the most content
in his calling that strives to live within the
compass of it.
	THE true American patriot, is the “sober
man, anxious in thought, faithful in service,
alive to the least and humblest duty as man
or citizen, sturdy and steady under dull
routine, and resolved that through him the
republic receive no harm.”—J. F. W. Ware.
	OFTENTIMES nothing but adversity will
do for us. We need to be stripped of every
earthly portion, that we may seek entirely
our portion in Jehovah himself. We need
to be turned out of our home on earth, that
we may seek a home in heaven.
	A MAN takes contradiction and advice
much more easily than most people think,
only he will not take it when violently
given, even though it be well founded.
Hearts are flowers; they remain open to the
softly falling dew, but shut up in the violent
downpour of rain.
	OVER and above every other social trait
stands cheerfulness. What the sun is to na-
ture—what God is to the stricken heart
which knows how to lean upon Him—are
cheerful persons in the house and by the
wayside. They go unobtrusively, uncon-
sciously, about their silent mission, bright-
ening up society around them with the hap-
piness beaming from their faces. We love
to sit near-them; we love the expression of
their eye, the tone of their voice. Little
children soon find them out.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			WOMAN ARISE!

	Oh woman, arise! this glow in the skies
	Betokens the advent of morning;
	Thy spirit should smile, exulting the while
	In the day which has published its warning.

	Its glory shall shine in splendor divine
	Thy path, so long dark, to illumine,
	And render thee strong to wrestle with wrong
	Which, crushing thee, crushes all human.

	Thy desolate cry through ages gone by
	To the ear of thy God has ascended;
	He bids thee prepare thy armor to bear
	For soon shall thy penance be ended.

	Thy folly lay by, bid vanity fly,
	And trifling and cowardice follow;
	On purposes high, with calmly fixed eye,
	Disdain pleasures blandishments hollow.

	In God be thy trust, His flat is just;
	He hea[-]s all thy passionate pleading;
	Still cling to his hand, He‘ll teach thee to stand
	Upholding, chastising and leading.

	By ignorance bound by custom enwound
	In meshes not easily broken,
	With talents suppressed where brightest and best,
	Thy intellect seldom has spoken.

	Thy heart true and warm, in every form
	Have pain and pale sorrow at ended;
	And grim-visaged wrong has trampled thee long,
	But soon shall its triumph be ended.

	Full soon shalt thou stand co-equal with man,
	[-]ntrammeled, yet faithful and lowly,
	Triumphantly meek, resistless though weak,
	A conqueror, guiless and holy.

	When no more a slave be noble and brave
	But keep thy heart holy and tender;
	All attributes sweet be wary to keep
	Nor yield them to grandeur and splendor. 

	Thy champions, though few, are valiant and true
	And swiftly their numbers are swelling;
	Th[-]n never despair for lo! in the air
	Pure light is the darkness dispelling.

	Undoubtingly hear this anthem of cheer,
	The voice of a prophet is singing;
	Oh sister rejoice! lift up thy glad voice!
	The bells of thy freedom are ringing!
									LU DALTON.


R. S. REPORTS.

	SALT LAKE CITY, May 26th, 1874.
  A special meeting was held by the Relief 
Society of the 3rd Ward, May 16th, 1874.
There were present as visitors, Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Zina D., Mar-
garet P. and Susan S. Young, and Mrs. Pre-
cinda Kimball. Mrs Horne spoke encour-
agingly, told the sisters to go on in the
good work they were engaged in, &c.
Miss Snow gave some excellent advice to
mothers in regard to the rearing of their
children and the watchful care they should
have over their daughters; she wished to
impress upon the minds of the young ladies,
the necessity of attending their meetings,
praying for the gifts of God, which it was
their privilege to enjoy; to have a strong
will, and take a firm stand, that they would
perform any duty that was required of them.
She also spoke upon the United Order, its
advantages and blessings. The other sis-
ters above mentioned made some excellent
and appropriate remarks, and were followed
by Bishop Weiler, Counselor John Wayman
and Brother Peter Sinclair. It is a unani-
mous feeling in the Society that they will
try to carry out the instructions that were
given, that they may receive the blessings
which are in store for the faithful.
		Mrs. Zurviah G. Eardly, Sec'y.

				NEPHI, May 27th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Young Ladies' Society was organized
March 19th, 1874. Miss Charlotte Hyder
Evans was chosen President, Miss Alice
Evans and Miss Matilda E. Picton Counsel-
ors, Miss Roxey Lucina Bigler Secretary.
Our meetings are pretty well attended and
those who attend feel well in the work. In
our meetings we bear testimony to the truth
of the Gospel and read pieces from the ever
welcome EXPONENT. Miss Alice Evans
has formed a class for all those who wish to
learn the different stitches of netting. We
all take our own work, whatever it may be,
and altogether we have very good and in-
teresting times. Some of the brethren and
elder sisters visit us sometimes and give us
instructions. We hold meetings every oth-
er Friday. Hoping your paper will increase
in circulation and do much toward building
up the Kingdom of God, we remain your
sisters in the Gospel of Christ.
	MISS CHARLOTTE H EVANS, President,
	MISS ROXEY LUCINA BIGLER, Secretary.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON CO., May 19th, 1874.
	Our Relief Society is prospering; liberal
donations have been made to the building
of the St. George Temple; also to gathering
the poor. The sisters generally are self-
sustaining, very few cases of real necessity
have been known, and those have been at-
tended to. We had an excellent meeting
last Thursday, some good remarks from
John M. Higby, Thomas Thorley and Yens
Neilson—the Presidency of the United Order
in this place—followed by a short address
from Brother J. P. Jones; the chief subject
being, classification of labor. A good feel-
ing prevails among the Saints and all seem
willing to do their part.
	With kind regards, I remain your sister,
					MARY ANNE LUNT.

	MENDON, CACHE CO., June 5th, 1874.
DEAR EDITOR:—
	We held our Annual Meeting May 28th.
There were present on the stand, Brothers
Anderson, Donelson, Thumway, Baker and
Gardener. President Willie and Counselors.
Meeting opened in the usual manner with
singing and prayer. Minutes of the previ-
ous meeting were read; also the financial
report of the past year; which was very
satisfactory. Sister Maria Baker spoke on
the necessity of the young ladies being or-
ganized in a class, to work in connection
with the society. We also received good
words of instruction from the brethern that
were present. President Mrs. Willie also
gave some very valuable counsel and thanked
the brethren for their visit. Sisters Baker
and Hancock bore testimony to the truth of
the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Meeting closed
with prayer by Brother Anderson. Wish-
ing the success of every good enterprise,
including the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, we are
respectfully, 
	  ELIZABETH WILLIE, President,
			ANNIE HUGHES, Secretary.

	Secretary Jane Bailey, reports from the 
Relief Society of Moroni, Sanpete Co.,
"The Sisters are united in seeking to do
good; the poor among us are provided for;
several good heavy bed quilts with other
suitable clothing for winter, we have been
able to furnish for those who were in need
of them. The sick also have been cared
for, and the best interest of all looked after,
so far as the influence and power of the
Relief Society extends. And we thank 
God that we are numbered among His free
people, and that these humble yet good
works are alotted unto us to perform. For
one, I would not exchange my position in
my lowly mountain home for all that the
world calls grand and great. I KNOW that I
am FREE here, that the people and the wo-
men of the people of God are free; and what
doth it matter if the world will not see it?
		'And when some trying hour appear,
	  I'll not be over awed,
		But let the scoffing sinner hear
	  That I can speak of God.'"

	The Secretary of the Manti Relief Society,
A. L. Cox, writes:—Our Society was organ-
ized May 11th, 1874. It has accomplished
much good, gaining "little by little." At
the close of the last year, our surplus funds
were used to assist the emigration of the
poor Saints. We hold our regular meetings
on the afternoon of every Fast-day, and
special meetings when business requires.
Our President Mrs. Ann Logan is a woman
of much experience and ability, and the
prevailing sentiment with the Sisters is to
sustain her, and assist in the upbuilding of
Zion. The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor
both in our meetings and at our homes.
Please accept my hearty GOOD wishes for
your success as the Pioneer of female jour-
nalism in Utah.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

				OXFORD, May 3rd, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER:—I have been a reader of
this little paper from its beginning, and I 
think there is none other of its size that can 
compare with it.  To me its precepts are of
great importance; and when I read, I feel a
union in spirit with those of my Sisters,
who are engaged in so good a cause.  All
the principles of this Gospel, so far as I un-
derstand them, afford happiness, in this 
life, setting aside what I expect to receive
in the next, according to my faithfulness.
In my heart I can say to my sisters, let us
not withhold our mites, but let us continue
in well doing.			LITTLE ONE.

			MANTI, May 31st, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Judging from appearances, one might
think that but few, comparatively, really
understand and appreciate the blessings
which surround us.  We not only possess
the right of suffrage, a privilege still denied
to the great majority of our countrywomen,
but we also enjoy a portion of the rights
guaranteed by the Constitution, freedom of
speech and of the press, notwithstanding
the attempts of dishonest officials to deprive
us of them.  And so far from being what
we have been represented by sensationed
newspaper writers,—"The poor, oppressed
and downtrodden women of Utah," we are
quite the reverse; and to-day are enjoying
more freedom than our sisters east or west
of us.  If our sex is destined to become a 
power in the land, what should prevent the
women of Utah being in the front rank?
Certainly not a lack of inclination or ability.
Time and opportunity are all that is required
to call forth the genius and talents that exist
among us.  Lest I encroach too far upon 
your time and space, and weary you or your 
readers;  I will conclude for the present,
hoping that you will still continue to be a 
bold champion for the cause of truth. Very
Respectfully,				A. L. Cox.


Mrs. S. A. Grifford, President of the Praying
Woman's Temperance Union of Worcester, has 
published a card saying that she entered into the
temperance movement with the distinct avowal
that while she regarded labor in the saloons as im-
portant, she did not think it was the first to claim
the efforts of the women, and could not feel it her
duty to lead the bands.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INTERESTING EXTRACTS,

	From a discourse by President George A.
Smith, delivered May 10th, 1874, in the
New Tabernacle, S. L. City.
	Reported by D. W. Evans for the Des-
eret News.

		 HOME PUBLICATIONS.
     I also advise that the “Juvenile Instruc-
tor” be circulated extensively among our chil-
dren. It is a work calculated to inform
their minds on the principles of the gospel;
from its pages they may also gain a know-
ledge of the history of the Church, as well
as a variety of other useful and entertain-
ing information. It is a very useful publi-
cation, and the benefits it is capable of con-
ferring upon our young people are numer-
ous and great. While speaking on this sub-
ject I will refer to other papers published by
our brethren in these valleys—The “Deseret
News,”' the “Herald,” “Junction,” “Provo
Times,” and the “Beaver and St George En-
terprises,” all of which contain a good deal of
information about our home affairs specially,
and of events in the world generally. I hope
that, in all the stakes of Zion, the people will
manifest a spirit and determination to sup-
port papers which are published for their
benefit. The “Deseret News,” daily, semi-
weekly, and weekly, besides the general
news of the world, also contains many of
the sermons of President Young and others
of the church authorities, and it should be
widely circulated in all the settlements of
the Saints. The mails now run to all parts
of the Territory, and though we can not
boast a great deal about the punctuality of
some of them, yet in nearly every settle-
ment a mail comes along once in awhile
bringing the “Deseret News,” and a man is
pretty safe on the main thoroughfares, in
taking the Weekly, and in many localities
the Semi-weekly, or Daily may be ventured
upon.
	SUSTAINING THE EXPONENT.
We must do something more in relation
to printing. The Woman’s Relief Society
are publishing a paper called the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT, which is a very ably edited
sheet, and one containing a great deal of in-
formation. I am surprised that all the gen-
tlemen in the Territory do not take it. I
invite all the elders, bishops, and presiding
officers in the stakes of Zion, on their re-
turn home, setting the example themselves,
to solicit all their brethren, and especially
the sisters, to become subscribers of this
little sheet, for I am sure that they will be
interested in the instruction and informa-
tion it contains. I will say that we expect
in a short time, through the patronage of
the brethren and sisters, that the ladies will
be able to enlarge this paper, and to extend
its influence far and wide.
		POWER OF THE LADIES.
   It has been my privilege to make visits
to, and to become acquainted with the Ladies’
Relief Societies in many of the settlements
in the Territory, and I am convinced that
great good results from the labors of these
organizations; and I feel certain that unless
the ladies take hold of any movement de-
signed to forward the work of the Lord in
the last days, its progress will be tardy. In
all parts of the world, when nations are at
war, unless the women take an interest in
the matter, the war goes on very heavily.
I am of the opinion that in the next war be-
tween France and Germany, the French will
get the best of it. Not but what I have a
great opinion of German skill, energy and
pluck, but I am satisfied, from traveling
and personal observation, that the women
of France are thoroughly aroused, and that
in the next war between those two nations,
the Prussians will have to fight the women
of France, and then France will be likely
to win.
	ADVICE TO RELIEF SOCIETIES.
     I say to our sisters of the Relief Societies,
be encouraged, meet together and discuss
all questions that are calculated to interest
or benefit the community, as you have the
ability; and as no man can be elected to
office in this Territory without the vote of
the ladies, make yourselves thoroughly ac-
quainted not only with the politics of the
country, but with every principle of local
government that may be advanced, and
then, whatever is calculated to benefit the
people in their private or domestic circles,
you will be enabled to vote intelligently
and to carry it through without difficulty.
	    WOMEN'S INFLUENCE. 
    We spend a great deal of our money in
following vain fashions, and in purchasing a
great many articles that are useless. These 
societies, if they choose, can make their
own fashions, and they can make them ac-
cording to wisdom, and so as to promote
health; a great many of the fashions of the
world are calculated to destroy health. A
hundred questions connected with domestic 
economy—housekeeping, cooking, making
bread and kindred subjects, that are of im-
portance to the stomach, health and longev-
ity of every man and woman in the Terri-
tory may be properly discussed in these Re-
lief Societies, and useful information dis-
seminated. A great many of the women
in these valleys have not had good oppor-
tunities to become acquainted with the art
of cooking, and that is an art which has
something to do with every person’s hap-
piness. The example of the ladies, and the
influence which they exercise, have a ten-
dency, above all things else, to maintain,
create, and preserve good morals. Men are
apt to behave themselves in the society of
women, and if women act wisely and pru-
dently in guiding and controlling the course
and conduct of each other, they will be able,
to a great extent, to guide, control, and regu-
late the morals and conduct of men. We
think, however, that the policy of the
Christian world, in throwing the responsi-
bility, so far as morality is concerned, en-
tirely upon the heads of women, is a blun-
der; the men should be held responsible for
their own acts, and when they are guilty
of that which is corrupt, low, or degrading,
they should be looked upon as transgressors
and cast aside until, by repentance and up-
rightness, they prove that they are worthy
of confidence. 			
   EXERCISING THE ELCTIVE FRANCHISE.
   Never let an election go by, or any other
occasion in which it is important for us to
take a part, without paying attention to it.
This advice is for the ladies as well as for
the gentlemen, for every lady of twcnty-
one years of age, who is a citizen of the
United States, or whose husband or father
is a citizen of the United States, has a right,
under the laws of Utah, to vote; and no one
need hope to hold office in Utah if the ladies
say no.


"How shall we settle the labor question?"
exclaimed a member of the Georgia Legis-
lature, in the midst of his speech. "By all
going to work, and earning your living hon-
stly!" thundered an irreverent spectator
in the gallery.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	PLACARDS on the St. Louis street cars de-
clare that "this car can't wait for ladies to
kiss good-bye."
	BULWER considered journalism more
fitted to destroy bad governments than to
construct foundations for good ones,
	WE think there is much truth in the ob-
servation of Josh Billings that "success
don't konsist in never making blunders, but
in never making the same one the seck-
ond time."
	HAPPINESS between husband and wife
can only be secured by that constant ten-
derness and care of parties for each other
which are based upon warm and demonstra-
tive love.  In a word, ever-present and ever-
demonstrative gentleness must reign, or
else the heart starves.
	A WORTHY Quaker thus wrote:—"I ex-
pect to pass through this world  once. If,
therefore, there be any kindness I can show,
or any good thing I can do to my fellow hu-
man beings, let me do it now.  Let me not 
defer nor neglect it, for I will  not pass this
way again."
	AN unexptected meeting of a long separa-
ted father and son took place in a San 
Francisco restaurant the  other day.  The 
father had been in the mines for years, but
through the removal of his family his let-
ters had failed to reach them, and they had
believed him dead until the son recognized
him in the heavily bearded gentleman sit-
ting opposite him at the table.
	SOMEBODY was once offering advice to
General Jackson, during his Presidential ca-
reer, and showing a vast amount of wisdom
about something that did not in the least
concern him.
	He finished at last, as all things earthly
must have an end—when the old General 
said quietly:
	"I knew a man, down in Tennessee, who 
was very poor and had a large family; but
he brought them up well, and showed them
all how to make their fortunes.  How do
you think he did it?"
	"Don't know, I am sure."
	"Taught them to mind their own busi-
ness," replied the old warrior.—Phil. Home
Weekly.
	EXPRESSION IN DR[---]—Owen Meredith 
remarks: "Women are more like flowers
than we think.  In their dress and adorn-
ment they express their natures as the flow-
ers do their petals and colors.  Some wo-
men are like modest daisies and violets--
they never look nor feel better than when
dressed in a plain morning wrapper.  Others
are not themselves unless they can flame out
in gorgeous dyes, like [---] tulip or blush 
rose.  Who has not seen women just like
white lilies?  We know several marigolds
and popies. There are women fit only for
velvets, like dahlias; others are graceful
and airy, like the azaleas.  Now and then
you see hollyhocks and sunflowers.  When
women are free to dress as they like uncon-
trolled by others, and not limited by their
circumstances, they do not fail to express
their true character, and dress becomes a 
form of expression very genuine and useful."


A YOUNG gentleman asked a young lady
what she thought of the marriage state in
general. “Not knowing, can’t tell,” was
the reply, “but if you and I were to put our-
heads together, I could soon give you a defi-
nite answer.”


12					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

    Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
    Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p m. on Mondays and Fridays.
     Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, June 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
			   LOCAL.
	Currants were ripe in St. George on the
5th inst.......Dr. S. E. Crain committed sui-
cide in the city jail, on the 9th inst. He
was sentenced to answer for an alleged
crime, and was unable to get bail.......The
proprietors of the Salt Lake Theatre have
had a "benefit" week, the performers playing
without charge for that length of time......
Splendid home raised strawbearies have
been in market for the past ten days.
			GENERAL.
	A Jeffersonville, Indiana saloon keeper
lately blew his own brains out; but he first
killed his baby and  is believed mortally
wounded his wife......A Washington lady
believes Grant would take anything you
would give him, even if it were the small-
pox.......Ingalls has introduced a bill in
Washington, to have the Board of Indian
Commissioners abolished......One hundred
millions of Postal cards have been issued in
this country during the short time they
have been in use.......A new comet, only
visable through a telescope, has been lately
discovered........The House committee on
Territories, at Washington, have agreed to
report a bill defining the qualifications of
deligates from Teritories, which provides
that a man must be twenty-five years of age,
a resident for seven years of the Territory
he represents, and neither a bigamist nor
polygamist......A temperance crusade is in
active progress on the Sandwich Islands,
and a bill has been introduced in the Hawai-
ian cabinet, to prohibit the sale and manu-
facture of intoxicating drinks.....Philadel-
phia is credited with having built the heavi-
est carriage on record. It is styled by the
manufacturing company, the Portable Ho-
tel.


THE DUCHESS of Edinburgh is to be called 
"Her Royal Imperial" or "Imperial Royal
Highness," and will rank next to the Prin-
cess of Wales save on occasions when the
Princess Royal, the Crown Princess of Rus-
sia visits England. This is not in accor-
dance with the rule hitherto followed, by
which the daughters of the sovereign
ranked above the daughters-in-law. But
the Duchess of Edinburgh is imperial by
birth as well as royal by marriage, and for
this is the higher possition assigned her.


For the Exponent.
			WHAT IS LIFE?
	All matter is either organic or inorganic.
We call those organic bodies which are made
up of parts, which, however diversified in
themselves, are mutually adapted and mu-
tually dependent, and each of them capable 
of performing a certain function, or action.
A wax flower has its various parts, mutually
adapted and mutually dependent, but neith-
er in their individual or combined state can
these parts perform any vital function. They
have no principle of life, and without vitali-
ty there can be no organization, since all or-
ganization implies a living arrangement of
elements. The sculptor may cut a block of
marble into the form and fashion of a man;
but when finished, it is after all, only inert
matter in an elegant form. In one word,
wherever we find the living principle in
connection with matter, there we have or-
ganization in vital arrangement. In the
absence of this principle we have nothing
but a dead mass. To the question, "What is
life?" we can give back no answer. That 
there is such a thing as life, or vital action,
cannot be denied, and the only thing which


we can say with certainty concerning it, is,
that life is that which admits of develop-
ment. We go out to the garden with a peb-
ble and a flower seed in our hand. We com-
mit them both to the soil, and thus subject
them to the same agencies and influences.
The seed will burst, and germinate, and de-
velop itself into a beautiful and fragrant
flower; while the pebble may lie there for
years on years without undergoing the least
change. This mysterious life-principle 
which enters into all organized matter, is
found in its highest and most perfect form
in the animal economy, and among animals,
first and pre-eminent in Man. My dear
friends mark, learn and inwardly digest
these fundamental points; and you will find
every time you read, something new, some
things you never understood before. As we
are receiving instruction one of another I
hope this small contribution may meet with
approval. Yours truly,
				M. A. E. WATMOUGH.


SUNDAY SCHOOL JUBILEE.
	We are requested to remind the many friends
of the Sunday School Union, that the Jubilee
will take place on the Twenty-fourth of July,
in the New Tabernacle. The time is drawing
near, and all who are desirous of participating
in the Jubilee are respectfully solicited to send
in their names, secure their tickets and their
song books, tune their voices and be prepared
to join in the united song of praise.
	In what way could the "Twenty-fourth,"
for 1874, be better celebrated than by bringing
together multitudes of children to sing praises
to the Great Giver of all good? He has blessed
the earth for His people's sake. He has caused
the desert to blossom, and the field to yield its
fruitful increase. He has protected His people
and has confused their enemies. Should not
the Saints and the children of the Saints unite
in singing His praise and in giving thanks to
Him? We heartily wish the jubilation may
prove in all respects, to all interested, a success.


ANNIVERSARY MEETING.
	Of the California State Woman's Suffrage
			Association.
	The "New North West" of May 22nd, contains
an interesting account of the fifth anniversary
meeting of the Woman's Suffrage Association
of California. During four sessions which were
held, speeches were made, resolutions formed
and correspondence read, all of an animated
and earnest character. The President of the
State Board of Control, Mrs. M. A. Lewis, re-
ported that in the past year, thirty-six meetings
had been held by the Board, and that it had is-
sued and presented four circulars which con-
tained more than ten thousand pages, and had
written two hundred and fifty-one letters, of
which, one hundred and fifteen had been an-
swered. Mrs. Lewis also congratulated the So-
ciety upon the passage of the Educational Bill
by the Legislature, making women eligible to
every position of authority in the school depart-
ment of the State. The Bill referred to had
been passed in response to a lengthy petition,
containing over five thousand signatures which
was forwarded by the Board.
	The women of Utah have occasion to again
thank the California Woman Suffragists for in-
terposing in behalf of their rights which are
still threatened. At the first session of the
anniversary meeting, the committee on Reso-
lutions presented the following, which was read
and adopted.
	Whereas, The Legislative department of
the Territory of Utah several years since prac-
tically demonstrated its appreciation of and
confidence in the principles of political equal-
ity and self-government, as enunciated by the
founders of the American Republic, by confer-
ring the elective franchise upon the women
within its jurisdiction; and,
	Whereas, The general deportment of the
newly enfranchised class in Utah and Wyo-
ming has been so characterized by quiet, order
and respect for public authority as to attract the
attention and challenge the commendation of
high public officials; and,
	Whereas, There are several bills now before
the Federal Congress, embracing those of Sena-
tors Frelinghuysen, Logan and Sargent and
Representative McKee, each of which, while
aiming to suppress polygamy in Utah, provides,
with the exception of that of Mr. Sargent, to
remand the women back to political subjuga-
tion; therefore,
	Resolved, That the California W. S. Associa-
tion, at its Fifth Anniversary, in convention
assembled, on this 29th day of April, 1874, here-
by records its solemn protest against this crafty
effort on the part of the enemies of Human
Rights to induce the Congress of the United 
States to perform the despotic work of disfran-
chising the women of an entire commonwealth,
thereby, under the specious pretense of promo-
ting public morals and womanly purity, pro-
posing to inflict a punishment upon the polyga-
mic wives of Utah to which only felons should
be subjected, while inflicting no punishment
and imposing no restraint upon polygamous
husbands.
	Resolved, That the Board of Control is re-
quested to prepare and forward to Congress a
memorial asking that Body to protect the wo-
men of Utah in the enjoyment of all the rights
of self-government conferred upon them by the
Legislative department of that Territory, and
that a copy of these resolutions be forwarded
to each Senator and Representative in the Na-
tional Congress from the Pacific Coast, who are
earnestly requested to use their influence to de-
feat any bill which abridges or denies the right
of Suffrage to any person or class on account of
sex.


﻿BOOK NOTICES.

	Voice of Warning, by Parley P. Pratt. Ninth
edition.
	Key to Theology, by the same author. Third
edition.
	The above works, published by David O. Cal-
der at the “Deseret News” Steam Printing Es-
tablishment, are of uniform and convenient
size, the print is clear, and their general ap-
pearance creditable to the establishment from
which they are issued. The prices are the same


for each; viz., Half morocco $1.23; Im. do. $1.
00; Full cloth embossed, 75cts. We are pleased
to call the attention of our readers to these new
and improved editions of these useful and in-
teresting publications representing the faith of
the Latter-day Saints.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	CONFERENCE IN St. George, opened on the
5th inst.

	BRO. L. J. Herrick, Bishop of Ogden, arrived
home on the evening of the 14th inst. from his
European mission.

	THE BEAVER "Enterprise," after another
change, is now edited by Mr. David Tyler, and
published by the Beaver Publishing Co.

	THE "MILLENIAL STAR" of May 19th an-
nounces that the second and third companies
of Saints for this year, were appointed to start
for Utah on the 10th and 24th of this month.

	A COMPANY has been incorporated to build a
railroad from this city to Coalville; distant
about forty-five miles. The capital stock has
been fixed at $1,000,000; of this $62,500 has been
subscribed.

	THE PROVO "Times" of June 4th stated that
the ladies of Provo were signing a petition to
the City Council, asking them not to license
more than one person to sell ardent liquors, and
that only for medical purposes.

	A QUANTITY of live oysters were recently
planted at the mouth of the Weber river where
it enters the Great Salt Lake. We hope the
experiment will be a successful one. The oys-
ters were left by Commissioner Stone, while on
his way West, and planted by Albert P. Rock-
wood, Esq., who takes great interest in fishcul-
ture.

	A GRAND Jubilee for the Sabbath Schools of
Utah County was held at Provo, on Monday,
the 15th inst. The weather was bright and
pleasant and at 10 a.m. about three thousand
children, with several thousand adults had as-
sembled at the Bowery where the jubilee was
to take place. The exercises began with
"Opening Hymn," full chorus, and prayer;
then followed original, and select songs, chiefly
culled from the "Juvenile Instructor" and the
"Charm,"—original recitations by members of
the different Sunday schools, and excellent
music from the brass, and string bands in at-
tendance. The exercises were interspersed with
brief, encouraging addresses by Presidents B.
Young, G. A. Smith, Elders G. Goddard, E.
Snow, J. B. Maiben, and recitation by Elder
D. McKenzie. The children were gratified,
during the recess at midday, with an interior
view of the large woolen Factory, which, by
courtesy of Pres. A. O. Smoot, was thrown open
for that purpose.
	The committee of arrangements were Messers
D. John, W. Paxman, W. N. Dusenberry, A.
Jones and S. S. Jones. Prof. J. E. Daniels con
ducted the musical exercises. Altogether the
accasion passed off pleasantly and the Jubilee
was considered a great success.


LETTER.
	In connection with other interesting cor-
respondence, the following letter was read
before the late anniversary meeting of the
California Woman's Suffrage Association.
	Mrs. Mary J. Collins—Dear Lady:—
Through the politeness of Mr. C. W. Tap-
pan, we have perused the letter of the 4th
inst. from you to his address, in which an


invitation is extended to Woman Suffragists
of Salt Lake to either attend your annual
meeting or address a letter for the occasion;
for which please accept our thanks.
	The receipt of the note being at a late
hour (yesterday evening), affording too little
time consistent for attendance at your Con-
vention, we are happy to address you, al-
though hastily.
	Realizing as we do, that the women of
Utah are highly privileged, we are not in-
different to the interests of our sisters
abroad, and would be most happy in assist-
ing them in their wise and laudable efforts.
For their encouragement we can truly say
that, with us, so far, the franchise is a suc-
cess—refuting many of the objections
against it by its opponents.
	It is presumable that our then acting Gov-
ernor, when signing the bill conferring Wo-
man Suffrage in Utah, felt a little tremulous
—it certainly was a bold step on almost un-
trodden ground, as we were preceded by
neither State nor Territory for example, ex-
cept Wyoming; but, having seen the work-
ing of our ballots, he pronounces it, as well
he may, "the proudest act of his life." The
unaccountable ignorance of people abroad
concerning the state of society, and espe-
cially the social position of woman in Utah,
augmented the risk of the Governor in jeop-
ardising his reputation as a Government of-
ficer in this responsible and magnanimous
act.
	In all ages of the world, the introduction
of beneficial principles and practices has to
combat established customs, usages, preju-
dices, and, above all, the ignorance of man-
kind; and in this respect, the generations
do not seem to have so very much improved
since the time of Christ and His apostles,
or since the days of Socrates and Gallileo,
although the mode of warring opposition is
somewhat modified.
	With intense interest we have watched
the movements of the ladies of California
and elsewhere in our behalf, and have here-
tofore publicly acknowledged our apprecia-
tion of their noble, energetic efforts, and
now feel constrained to say that, in oppos-
ing the passage of those unjust and igno-
minious bills which disgrace the American
Congress, you have not only aided us by
your influence, but have done honor to the
cause which you bravely and earnestly ad-
vocate.
	With many kind wishes for your success
in every laudable enterprise, we are your
fellow laborers for the promotion of good,
			Miss E. R. Snow,
			Mrs. L. Greene Richards,
			Mrs. S. M. Kimball,
			Mrs. M. I. Horne.
	Salt Lake City, April 26th, 1874.


THE BRIDGE across the Mississippi river
was crossed by the first train of cars on the
ninth instant. The engineers were greatly
pleased with the solidity of the bridge.
	AT A late election in Portland Oregon,
through the efforts of the women crusaders,
large casks of ice-water were placed at the
various polling places for the benefit of
thirsty voters. There is good sense in all
such practical forms of crusading.
	The Michigan University College paper is con-
ducted by masculine students, we believe, and they
make very complimentary allusions to their femin-
ine competitors; “They pertinaciously keep their
health and strength in a way that is aggravating
and they persist in evincing an ability for close and
continued mental labor which, to the ordinary esti-
mator of woman's brain power, seems like pure
willfulness.”


﻿DIVERSIONS.

	THE best sewing machine attachment—
The engagement of a pretty seamstress.

	HASH is now considered the connecting
line between the animal and vegetable king-
doms.

	LADIES are said to be like bills of ex-
change, because they ought to be settled at
maturity.

	WHICH is the most difficult train to catch?
Answer.—The 12, 50, because it is always
ten to one if you catch it.

	DID the man who plowed the seas, and af-
terward planted his foot upon native soil,
ever harvest his crops?

	ANDREW Jackson was accused of bad
spelling, but John Randolph defended him
by declaring that "a man must be a fool who
could not spell words more ways than one."

	SHODDY invited Ole Bull to dine with
him, and meet a few friends. At the din-
ner, Shoddy hoped Mr. Bull had brought his
violin. Ole quietly replied, "My violin
never dines out."

	"How far is it to Cub Creek?" asked a
traveler of a Dutch woman. "Only shoost
a little vays." "Is it four, six, eight or ten
miles?" impatiently asked the stranger.
"Yas, I dinks it is," serenely replied the un-
moved gatekeeper.

	Two Milesians were standing at the Fair-
mount water-works, watching the big wheels
splashing the water, when one of them re-
marked:—"Mike isn't this a quare country
where they have to grind the water before
they can use it?"

	COCKNEY: I say, Bill, my good fellor, vich
is the way to Epsom?—Countryman: How
did you know that my name was Bill?—
Cockney: Vy, I guessed it.—Countryman:
How did you know that I was a good fellow?
—Cockney: Vy, I guessed it.—Countryman:
Then guess your way to Epsom.

	A LADY returning from an unprofitable
visit to church, declared that "when she saw
the shawls on those Smiths, and then
thought of the things her own poor girls had
to wear, if it wasn't for the consolation of
religion she did not know what she should
do."

	"JOHNNY," said a mother, to her hopeful
son, as she was reading to him of Pocahon-
tas, in the History of Virginia, "do you
know who Pocahontas was?" "Yes mother,"
said the lad, whose thoughts were upon the
mare that lately trotted a half mile in 1:044,
"she was a fast trotter."

	A MAN sought to annoy a boy whom he
found at work by the road-side, and finally
asked him who his father and mother were,
to which the boy replied: "They are the
parents of a son who knows how to practice
the wise precept of King Solomon, by an-
swering a fool according to his folly."

	DR. Willet said that at one time when he
was a connoisseur in bird-stuffing, he used
to criticise other people's bird-stuffing se-
verely. Walking with a gentleman one
day he stopped at a window where a gigan-
tic owl was exhibited. "You see," said the
doctor to his friend, "there is a magnificent
bird utterly ruined by unskillful stuffing.
Notice the mounting! Execrable isn't it?
No living owl ever roosted in that position.
And the eyes are fully a third larger than
any owl ever possessed." At this moment
the stuffed bird raised one foot and solemnly
blinked at his critic, who said but little more
about stuffed birds that afternoon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
We will toil on bravely, through sunshine and shade,
For our Heavenly Father will still lend us aid;
Though lowly our sphere yet our labors of love,
He honored on earth and still favors above.
“I was an hungered, ye fed me,” once kindly he said,
"The poor of my people likewise ye have fed;
As ye gave unto them, unto me ye have given,
Enter into the joy of your Father in heaven.
“The winter winds chilled me, my raiment was old,
Warm clothing ye gave, to protect me from cold;
My blessing was all that to you then was given,
Your treasures were hid in the Kingdom of Heaven.
“I was thirsty, when lo! from the river's pure brink,
Of the crystal fount springing ye brought forth my drink.
“I was sick and in prison, ye came unto me—
"No longer my servants, but friends ye shall be,”
Then why should we linger or cease from our toil?
The Bride is not ready, all lamps have not oil;
And the watchmen in Zion unceasingly cry,
“Prepare ye, make ready, the Bridegroom is nigh.
								S. B. R.
	Logan.


﻿HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
First Element of a Home.—I never saw a gar-
ment too fine for man or maid; there never was a
chair too good for a cobbler or cooper to sit in;
never a house too fine to shelter the human head.
These elements about us, the gorgeous sky, the im-
perial sun, are not too good for the human race.
Elegance fits man. But do we not value these tools
of house-keeping a little more than they are worth,
and sometimes mortgage home for the mahogany
we can bring into it? I would rather eat my din-
ner off the head of a barrel, or dress after the fash-
ion of John the Baptist in the wilderness, or sit on
a block all my life, than consume all myself before
I get home, and take so much pains with the out-
side that the inside was as hollow as an empty nut.
Beauty is a great thing, but beauty of garments,
house and furniture is a very tawdry ornament com-
pared with domestic love. All the elegance in the
world will not make a home, and I would give
more for a spoonful of hearty love than for whole
shiploads of furniture, and all the upholsterers of
the world could gather together.—“Theodore Par-
ker.”
	Why a Child loves Sugar.—The craving of chil-
dren for sweets is well known to be one of the
most imperious of their appetites. It has refer-
ence probably to that careless activity which espe-
cially characterizes the age of childhood. It is
known that sugar renders easier and more perfect
the digestion of the albuminous food upon which
their growth depends. In respect to these offices
it is therefore nearly essential to their well-being.
And yet how strong, for generations, has been the
prejudice against sugar! Under what difficulties,
and in the face of what discouragements and pro-
tests, have our children obtained the luxury!
	Good Biscuit.—One quart of flour, one table-
spoonful baking powder, butter the size of a wal-
nut; use water; don’t mix stiff; bake quick.
	To soften Hard Water.—You can soften the wa-
ter by adding carbonate of soda—washing soda—as
long as a whitish precipitate is formed. Let it
settle and draw off the clear water above. Some-
times simple boiling will render the water after set-
tling fit for washing. 
	Short Cake.—Rub together one quart of flour,
one teaspoonful of salt, and one cup of butter, lard
or beef dripping. Make into a paste with either
sour, or buttermilk, and add half a tablespoonful of
salaratus dissolved in a little warm water. Make
into a soft dough and bake.
	To Get Rid of Large Ants.—I went out in the
garden and procured a handful of green sage leaves;
sprinkled them in and around my sugar box and in
less than 24 hours they had all left; they are no
trouble at all now; it is a sure way to get rid of
large ants. Try it.—A. L. S.


﻿French Rarebit.—Take three ounces of cheese,
cut it in small square pieces, and set it to fry with
a little piece of butter. When your cheese begins
to melt, have three eggs beaten up with salt and
pepper. Pour them upon your cheese. Stir and
roll it all into a sort of puff and take it off. The
whole operation should not take more than one or
two minutes.
   Elastic Varnish.—As an excellent and easily
manufactured varnish for wicker-work, Mr. F.
Rhien recommends the following composition:—One
part of good linseed oil is boiled down to a sirupy
consistency, and mixed with twenty parts of copal.
This mass is then diluted with oil of turpentine to
the proper thickness. The varnish dries easily,
and remains elastic, so as not to crack by the bend-
ing of the basket.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	EIGHT sets of twins were born in South
Norwalk, Ct., within five weeks.

	ST. Louis is reported to have invested
$175,000 in the Louisville lottery, but didn't
draw a cent.

Church, in Portsmouth, for $450. A new
case was added and it has remained in the
chapel ever since, and is still in good order.

	PERU has lately discovered new deposits
on guano, which will more than pay her
foreign debt of $180,000,000.

	THE world uses 259,000,000 pounds of tea
and 718,000,000 pounds of coffee every year.
China furnishes nearly all the tea, and Bra-
zil nearly all the coffee.

	IT is calculated that in Alameda county,
Cal., $1,000,000 is invested in the manufac-
ture of beet sugar alone. Last year the
yield was about 20,000 tons, from which
about 3,800,000 pounds of saccharine matter
was produced. It is expected that this sea-
son's crop will be much greater.

	MR. Silas Cooper of Lincoln county, West
Virginia, is claimed to be the oldest man in
the State. He was one hundred and six
years old on the 9th of last March. Mr.
Cooper is as quick of foot as many men at
fifty, and able to stand a great deal of exer-
cise. His wife died a few months ago, at 
the age of one hundred and ten.

	ACCORDING to statistics derived from the
"Bureau of Education," it is calculated that
out of the 38,558,371 of the population of
the United States of all ages, 12,135,799, or
31.47 per cent. of the total population,
must be excluded from the number who are
able, through reading and writing, to ex-
change information with others for the
guidance of their conduct.

	THE oldest organ in the United States is
in the chapel of St. John's Church, at Ports-
mouth. It was imported in August,  1713, and
presented by Thomas Brattle to the Queen's
Chapel, in Boston, which after the death of
Queen Anne, was called the King's Cha-
pel. In 1756 the organ was sold to St. Paul's
Church, where it remained until 1836, eighty 
years, when it was again sold to St. John's

	AHMED, an old gentleman living in Tre-
bizoned, Asia Minor, is said to have reached
his 138th year. He enjoys excellent health
and spirits, though he has long survived all
his relatives. From his youth upward he
has been a strong advocate of bodily exer-
cise as a preservative of health, and until
quite lately has been in the habit of taking
long "constitutionals" daily. Ahmed is
not the only instance of remarkable longev-
ity at Trebizoned. Another old man has
just died who had reached his 125th year.


PRACTICAL HINTS.
	MOUNT PLEASANT, SANPETE Co.
						May 3rd, 1874.
EDITOR EXPONENT:—Being desirous to
commit a few of my thoughts to paper, I
forward the same to you, for publication if
you deem it worthy.
	I address myself principally to the young,
although young and old have the same priv-
ileges in relation to the subject of which I
will write. Let those who possess an edu-
cation do their best to impart  knowledge to
others—striving to do so without show or
noise, going quietly and perseveringly
along in the work of developing and im-
proving the human mind—to feed and in-
struct and implant the principles of eternal
truth. The young lady who teaches her
sister the simple arts of reading and writ-
ing is putting in her possession the key to
all written knowledge, and placing within
her reach the power of active thought.
	Let every young lady's first duty be, to im-
prove, educate and elevate herself in the
social scale, helping forward all those asso-
ciated with her, by all reasonable means.
Therefore, young ladies, determine in your
own minds that you will advance, and the
first step is already taken, and half the bat-
tle won; and striving to advance yourselves,
will prove the most effectaul way of stimu-
lating and encouraging others. Example is
better than precept, and your own actions
will teach far more emphatically than words
can do, I speak of this as a duty binding
upon every young lady connected with the
Church and Kingdom of God. There is a
dignity in every effort that is made to culti-
vate talent and improve every gift that
the Almighty has bestowed upon us. It
produces a well regulated mind, it gives vir-
tue the mastery over vice, it drives away
care and secures comfort and will eventu-
ally aid us in being instruments in the
hands of our great Creator to do much good
to ourselves and our fellow creatures. Let
self-reform and self-improvement be our
motto.
	In conclusion, let me beg of the young
sisters to abserve good manners, and pro-
per deportment—at all times and under all
circumstances—and thus ultimately gain
power over every weakness and every evil
that may at any time present itself among
them.
	With a fervent desire to do good, I am,
your sister in the Gospel of Peace.
				MARGARET F. MARRISON.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	TO REMOVE BOILS.—Dr. Simon, a phy-
sician of Loraine gives a new cure for boils,
by treating them with camphorated alcohol.
As soon as the culmination point of a boil
makes its appearance, he puts a little of the
liquor in a saucer, and dipping the ends of
his little fingers in it, rubs the inflamed sur-
face, especially the central part, repeating
the operation eight or ten times for about
half a minute. He then allows the surface
to dry, placing over it a slight coating of 
camphorated olive oil. He says that four
such applications will, in almost all cases,
cause boils to dry up and disappear. The
application should be made at morning, noon
and evening.

	EATING BETWEEN MEALS.—In regard to
eating between meals, if persons would eat
only at regular intervals there would be no
craving; but as the habit of eating irregu-
larly is continued, it becomes stronger. I
know it is a common practice for people to


eat as they feel a longing for it. When
children are allowed this privilege, as a gen-
eral rule, it makes them fretful and un-
healthy. When I was a child it was a rare
thing that I asked for anything to eat be-
tween meals; as I grew older I got into the
habit of eating whenever I felt the slight-
est degree of hunger, and was hungry near-
ly all of the time at that; feeling miserable
in the bargain: but, happily for me, I saw an
article in the "Rural" bitterly opposing this
injurious habit, and it so completely disgus-
ted me with it that I made a promise then 
and there never to eat between meals. Since
then I have felt better in both body and
mind and it is seldom that I care about 
breaking my promise; when I do I conquer
the feeling and feel far better than I would
if I had eaten. I speak from experience
having tried both ways.—M. Lang in R.
N.Y.

BENEFITS OF SUNSHINE.—The human
being is like a plant—neither will thrive in
the dark. Nor will either prosper in the
twilight or in the shade. Show me a fam-
ily that lives in a house heavily shaded by
overhanging boughs of trees, so that the
sunshine seldom or never falls upon any side
of it, and I will show you a people who
never enjoy good health. They are not ex-
actly wilted nor bleached; but they have
that bleached look presented by the unfortu-
nate inmates of prisons, and the drooping
appearance seen in plants that make a poor
show of growing in dark, out of the way
places. Vigor is altogether impassible in
the absence of sunshine. I know many
people who think themselves intelligent,
and who are filled with wise saws and sage
proverbs as to the preservation of health,
who live in darkened rooms. Sunshine
fades the carpets and warps the furniture,
they say; but faded carpets are better than
faded cheeks, and warped furniture is better
than crooked spines and bowed leggs and
arms. Flies will get into the house if it is
light, is another excuse for ample window 
window curtains and heavy shade trees—the
latter, in many cases, the poisonous and too 
odorous Chinese Ailanthus.	*	*
Sunshine is grand medicine for the invalid,
and coupled with plenty of fresh air, and
the restorative preparations drawn by the
plants from air and sunshine, it is one of the
finest and safest remedies. It is also one of
the best of the preventives of sickness.
Admit it, then, to every nook and corner of
your dwellings, that it may banish malaria,
and implant strength and vitality into your
minds and bodies. And, speaking of the
benefits of sunshine, we recommend a sun-
shine bath. It costs nothing, but, taken
properly, it yields health, strength and elas-
ticity of spirits.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				15﻿


ECHO ANSWERS.—Of what has heaven
given us an equal share?—Air.
    What does a rumor often do when it flies?
—Lies.
   Which is the loveliest flower that grows?
—Rose.
    Whose children are we apt to think the
sweetest flowers?—Ours.
    What in manners is sure to please?—Ease.
    What will frequently overcome the most
austere?—Tear.
   What loses its flavor when we borrow it?
—Wit.
   What is it that wealth seldom extinguish-
es?—Wishes.
   What traits are difficult to exterminate?—
Innate.	
   Mlle. de Rothschild has just passed her exami-
nation as a public instructress.


[FOR THE EXPONENT.
	HARMONY OF COLORS.

	We, as a people, are having many splen-
did opportunities to beautify and embellish
our homes by the workmanship of our own
hands. And in order that we may do so
scientifically, that every addition we make
for improvement, may be in unison with the
furniture, wearing apparel, or other articles
already in use, it is necessary that we should
obtain, by diligent research and study of
the fine arts, a knowledge of how to arrange
and decide for ourselves the kind of colors
we wish to bring together, that the whole
may so blend and beautifully harmonize,
not only in things themselves but with all
their immediate surroundings, as to be pleas-
ing and satisfactory to the trained eye of
the most refined. I would refer in an espe-
cial manner to the selection of colors in the
manufacture, by our ladies, of beautiful bed
quilts, hearth rugs, &c., although these re-
marks apply equally as well to the laying
out of flower gardens, the arrangement of
bouquets, the trimming of hats and bonnets,
painting of rooms, papering of walls or the
adornment of the person; and as we ladies
are going into the printing business exten-
sively, my suggestions would also be appli-
cable in the printing of rainbow colored
cards, bills, and every instance where vari-
ous colors are brought in contact with each
other, so that nothing may be discordant or
displeasing to the observing or criticising
eye. One thing to be remembered is, that,
as to the musician a note inserted in the
wrong place is to his trained ear a discord,
so is the introduction of an inharmonious
color a discord to the eye of the artist. How
often is it the case in our associations to-
gether, that a sister will bring out, for us to
admire, that exquisite bed quilt that has
taken so much of her valuable time, atten-
tion and exertions to put together? But
she has embellished it with all the colors of
the prismatic spectrum, the hues of the
rainbow, with all the properties of the pho-
togenic and sciogenic elements of light and
shade without due regard to the harmony
that should exist in the distribution and ar-
rangement of the variety of colors inserted.
This brings to my mind quite forcibly, the
scene of the colors displayed by the thou-
sands of sisters when seated in our densely
crowded tabernacle. Perhaps in a future
time, I may have something to suggest on
this subject, through your columns, to my
sisters of the Relief Societies. Understand-
ing from experience that it is one thing to
find fault, and quite another thing to mend a
fault I purpose giving a few hints on this
subject, realizing that the diffusion of all
useful knowledge is a principle we, as a peo-
ple believe in; and from whatever source it
may emanate it is acceptable and instruct-
ive. Every one must have observed that
certain colors when brought together, set off
each other to advantage; while others have
altogether a different effect. This must be
carefully attended to by whoever would dis-
play beauty or elegance in her work. Any
one color will appear well on a white ground.
Red comes in between white, black or yel-
low; blue next to white or yellow, green
next to black or white, orange or gold color
must be contiguous to black or brown. Let
me here remark that a white article reflects
all the rays that constitute a white light, al-
though in some instances it may reflect some
colored light also, according as the surfaces
are smooth, rough, glossy or channelled. The
optical effect of a color is greatly modified
by the condition of the surface of the colored
article; thus, pieces of silk, cotton, woolen,
linen and velvet although dyed of exactly
the same hue and tone of color, appear to be
of quite different tints. The depth or in-
tensity of color, presented by velvets and
certain flowers, such as the heartsease, is
due to the surface being channelled, ridged,
or furrowed. Here are a few instances, how
colors can appear to be changed by contact
with other colors. Red, for example, by be-
ing placed in contact with blue, appears yel-
low, in contact with yellow it has a bluish
appearance, with green it appears purer and
brighter, in contact with black it appears
duller, with white it appears lighter and
brighter; gray also makes it appear more
bright. Place two pieces together of dif-
ferent colors but of the same tone or inten-
sity. If they are not too wide, they will
appear quite different from what they do
when viewed separately; this is called con-
trast of color. If we place, side by side,
two pieces of the same color but different
shades, the light one will appear lighter, and
the dark one darker; this is called contrast
of tone. Blue must not be placed by the
side of violet, because blue enters into the
composition of violet; the blue makes the
violet look faded, while the violet gives the
blue a greenish appearance. A deep blue
and a deep red both gain intensity of color
by contact with each other. Yellow and
blue are so dissimilar that their contrast is
sufficiently great to produce a favorable as-
sociation, while red and orange are quite
the reverse. Red and blue harmonize bet-
ter than red and violet; yellow and red har-
monize better than yellow and orange, al-
though these latter will harmonize better
than red and orange, because red predomi-
nates in the orange. For the same reason,
yellow and green appear better than blue
and green. When two light colors do not
look well together, separate them with
white, but the deep colors should be separa-
ted by black. Red and orange do not look
well together, yet if separated by black an
agreeable and harmonious effect is produced.
Much more could be said on this subject. I
know from experience that my sisters, the
ladies of Utah, have in many instances, to
use up whatever pieces they may happen to
have by them; but where we have to dye
any of them, we can have an eye to the har-
mony of colors. We must consider that
pink comes under the denomination of red,
because red enters largely into the composi-
tion of pink; as blue does in violet, yellow
in green and orange. In the prismatic spec-
trum and in the rainbow we look for our
standard colors; of these, there are three,
viz., red, blue and yellow. These are called
primary colors, and when transferred
through a prism upon a white surface, pro-
duce a white light; therefore, either one of
the three should always be omitted and
never placed beside the other two.
	As my communication has already assum-
ed such extensive dimensions, while the
subject in hand is not nearly exhausted, I
will defer further remarks till some future
period.				R. J. FILCE.
	20th Ward, S. L. City.


There are ninety-five ladies in Michigan Univer-
sity, distributed through the different departments,
of which number it is expected that Miss Nancy
Hill, of the Medical Class, graduating in March,
will settle in Dubuque Iowa; and Mrs. T. S. Law-
rence in Emporia, Kansas.
	Jane M. Slocum of the Law Class, will resume
her situation as teacher of Metaphysics and Science
of Government, in Howard College, at Union
Springs, New York. Mary P. Stockbridge,
the other member of the Law. Class, will remain
in Ann Arbor to study another year.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE HABIT OF FRETTING.
	Fretting is both useless and unnecessary;
it does no good and a great deal of harm,
yet it is almost a universal sin. More or less
we are all given to it. We fret over almost
everything. In  summer because it is too
hot, and in  winter because it is too cold; we
fret when it rains because it is wet; when
we are sick, or when anybody else is sick.
In short, if anything or everything dosn’t
go just to suit our particular whims and
fancies, we have one grand general refuge
—to fret over it. I am afraid fretting is
much more common among women than
among men. We may as well own the
truth, my fair sisters, if it isn’t altogether
pleasant. Perhaps it is because the little
worries, and cares and vexations of our daily
life harrass our sensitive nerves more than
the more extended enterprises which gen-
erally take the attention of men. Great
wants develop great resources, but the lit-
tle wants and worries are hardly provided
for, and like the nail which strikes against
the saw, they make not much of a mark,
but they turn the edges terribly. I think if
we looked upon all the little worries of one
day as a great united worry, self-control to
meet it would be developed. But as they
generally come only one or two little things
at a time, they seem so very little that we
give way, and the breach once in the wall
soon grows larger. Now, I don’t believe in
the cant that a woman must always, under
all and any circumstances, wear a smiling
face when her husband comes home, or that
she needs to take her hands out of the dough
or drop the baby on the floor to run and
meet him at the door. But I do believe—
nay. I know, for I have seen it with my own
eyes among my friends—that many a wo-
man has driven a kind husband away from
her, away from his home and its sacred in-
fluences, and caused him to spend his time
at a billiard table or in a drinking saloon,
amid their profane influences, simply by
her ceaseless fretting over trifles which
were not worth a word, much less the peace
and happiness of a home. I know that many
a mother has brought up and developed a
daughter just like herself, who, in her turn,
would wreck and ruin the comfort of an-
other family circle. I know that many a
mother has turned her son against her own
sex, and made him dread and dislike the
society of women, by her example, con-
stantly set before him. And knowing all
this, my sisters—and brothers, too, if they
need it—I know that we ought to set our
faces like flint against this useless, sinful,
peace-destroying and home-disturbing habit
of fretting.


WHO SHOULD NOT BE A WIFE.

	Has that woman a call to be a wife who
thinks more of her silk dress than her chil-
dren, and visits her nursery no oftener than
once a day? Has a woman a call to be a
wife who calls for a cashmere shawl when
her husband's notes are being protested?
Has that woman a call to be a wife who sits
reading the last new novel while her hus-
band stands before the glass vainly trying
to pin together a bottomless shirt bosom?
Has that woman a call to be a wife who ex-
pects her husband to swallow diluted coffee,
soggy bread, smoky tea, and watery pota-
toes six days out of the seven? Has she
the call to be a wife who flirts with every
man she meets, and reserves her frowns
for the home fireside? Has she a call to be
a wife who comes down to breakfast in
abominable curl papers, a soiled dressing-


gown, and shoes down at the heel? Has
she a call to be a wife whose husband's love
weighs naught in the balance with her
next-door neighbor’s damask curtains or
velvet carpet? Has she a call to be a wife
who would take advantage of a moment of
conjugal weakness to extort money or ex-
tract a promise? Has she a call to be a wife
who takes a journey for pleasure, leaving
her husband to toil in a close shop, and have
an eye, when at home, to the servants and
children? Has she a call to be a wife to
whom a good husband’s society is not the
greatest earthly blessings, and a house full
of rosy children its best furnishing and pret-
tiest ornaments?


﻿FROM KANAB.
				May 22nd, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	It is very pleasant here now. The wind
has blown a good deal this spring, but for
the past two weeks the weather has been
fine and gardens are looking well.
	Kanab grows slowly, owing to the poverty
of the people. I should not say poverty
either; what I mean is, that we have had so
much to contend with, that it has taken all
the time and means to feed us, without
building much. But I like the place for all
that. We were sent here by those whose
right it is to direct us, and I have never for
one moment felt to murmur. My children
have been deprived of many advantages,
which seems a draw back, but if they only
have the Spirit of God with them and learn
of His ways, they will be all right. So long
as we are in the line of duty, what matters
it?
	The family organization works well here,
so far. The Saints feel well, and all looks
bright. We may be a little short of some
conveniences for a while, until we get into
working order, but I believe we will also be
greatly blest. We may yet have some trou-
ble with the Navajoes, but the Lord is able
to turn away the wrath of the Indians. And
now that the brethren are all on this side of
the river, I feel that all will be well.
	We have good meetings here, and a good
school now, which my children attend. And
I feel very thankful for these, with all the
other blessings. Respectfully, &c.
                                             H. M. B.


﻿THE SEX.
	A lady student takes the scientific honors at the
Indiana State University this year.
	Mrs. Martha Littlefied has bequeathed $20,000
to found a Seaman’s Hospital at Newport.
	Clara Barton, the well known Army nurse, has
arrived at Worcester, but is confined to her bed by
nervous prostraction.
	Mrs. M. Adelle Hazlett delivered the oration
at the annual meeting of the Hillsdale County Pio-
neer Society, which was held at Hillsdale, Michigan.
June 10.
	Miss Jacobs, of Sappemeer, has passed the
examination for a medical degree with the greatest
success. She is the first lady who has achieved
the distinction in Holland.
	Mrs. Stanton asserst that “the typical strong-
minded woman of whom we hear so much is a
myth, since the very best specimens of woman-
hood, both in England and America, are those
identified with the suffrage movement.” In Na-
ples, she met Mary Sommerville, one of the
most celebrated mathematicians of the age, who at
“90 years of age was as bright, cheerful, and as
deeply interested in passing events, as the young-
est of the circle.


"THE REIGNING fashion," at present,
—frequent showers.
	AT what hour did the devil make his ap-
pearance in the Garden of Eden? Some
time in the night. He certainly came after
Eve.		
	EVERY flower may be supplied with its
favorite soil by the exercise of a little pa-
tience and observation. A light soil suits
nearly all descriptions. Almost any piece
of earth which is thoroughly dug and
dressed yearly, may be made suitable to
the production of flowers. All bulbs, car-
nations, pinks, auriculas &c., love a mixture
of sand.—ENGLISH LADY.


DOCTOR CROCKWELL. 

    Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
     His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad- 
vent. 
      He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
inUtah.
    Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

			H. DINWOODEY

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
storey Brick Store on

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
Where he is prepared to do a
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE

Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-

tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies

to purchase.

			CLUB RATES.

     Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
Exponent and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club. -        -        -        -        -    $18 00
15 Copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, -        -        -        -        -      26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
      Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
    Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
    Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
    We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, July 1, 1874.		NO. 3﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE PRINCESS Bismarck, now past sixty
superintends her farm work.
	REV. MRS. Vancott, believed to be the first
woman ordained a minister by the Metho-
dist church, is a speaker of great power and
earnestness.
	THE LONDON University has decided, by a
vote of 83 to 65, that "it is desirable that
women should be permitted to take degrees
in the University."
	THE UNIVERSITY of Vermont decided
thatnothing in its charter or history would 
justify it in excluding ladies from any of 
its advantages enjoyed by men.
	THE IDEA of a famine doesn't trouble an
Iowa clergyman since a recent donation
party supplied him with beans sufficient to
last thirty-seven years.
	THE LOUISIANA flood has, it is calculated,
caused direct suffering to not less than 70,
000 people; and overflowed about 12,565,000
acres in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi
and Arkansas. We trust the benevolence
of the people will be equal to the needs of
our unfortunate countrymen.


THE MENTAL AND PHYSICAL DE-
	VELOPMENT OF CHILDREN.

	The greates legacy that parents can leave
their offspring is a healthy body, an active
mind and a practical education. With these
qualifications a man can be happy, if mor-
rally disposed, and may be capable of at-
taining to any eminence; but without them
he is comparatively poor, and does not stand
equal to the one who may be thus endowed
or developed, although he may be better
provided for financially.
	It is within the power of parents to give
such legacies to their offspring? and are
parents to blame for many of the weakness-
es in their children? are the questions to be
considered. It is well known that many
diseases are transmitted from parents to
their offspring and, as is stated in the Bi-
ble, the sins of the parents are visited upon 
their children, even till the third and fourth
generation. The question may be asked,
what should parents do, in order that their
children may have healthy bodies?
	Parents, in order to have healthy, intelli-
gent children, should first seek to cultivate
themselves, by strictly observing the laws
of nature which appertain to their own
physical construction, and which requires a
wise system of diet, ventilation, cleanliness
and labor. In order that they may receive
strength and nourishment, they should eat
such food as will make them feel most
agreeable after having eaten it; they should
breathe pure, fresh air, and live in well ven-
tilated houses. These things are absolutely
necessary, in order to purify the blood. One
reason why the children of the poor and
the temperate classes of the people are, gen-
erally, healthier than those of the rich, is
because they are under the necessity of eat-
ing plain food, and their parents allow them
to go out more frequently in the open air
and have a greater amount of exercise, all
of which are necessary for the promotion of
health. Parents should therefore study the
laws of nature, and give heed thereunto,
and they will soon find that they will be
more healthy, and the more healthy the
parent the more likely will their offspring
be to enjoy the same blessing.
	Experience has demonstrated that train-
ing and educating have changed the forma-
tion of the body, and that the change thus
produced has been transmitted to the chil-
dren,—for instance, you can labor in any
branch of business, for two or three genera-
tions, enlarge or diminish any part of the
body, and it will become partly rooted in
the blood, or to such an extent that it will
frequently produce its like. So powerful
is the effect of education on the develop-
ment of the mind and body, that we can
find traits of character in the children of one
family varying according to the circumstan-
ces under which they were begotten and
matured,—for example we seldom find that
the first-born is the strongest, quickest and
most intelligent, if the rest of the children
of the same family have had equal opportu-
nities in life; but, on the contrary, few cases
can be found where the eldest child has
risen to greater eminence in society than
the younger ones of the same family, where
the attainment to such eminence has de-
pended on self-action. We find recorded
in the Bible that the Lord has oftener than
otherwise chosen those who were not the
first-born of a family as being the most
suitable to be intrusted with the care of a
people or dispensation, as with Seth, Enos,
Enoch, Lamech, Noah, Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, Joseph, Samuel, Moses, David, Solo-
mon, and others and, in this dispensation,
Joseph Smith and Brigham Young; and the
same may be said of mostly all the great
merchants, statesmen, philosophers and
others who have attained to their positions
by their own efforts. What has caused this
development? It is simply because parents
in after years, have become more careful of
their acts, more thoughtful of things of life
and less passionate.
	First-born children are often kind and af-
fectionate, and may be very intelligent and
good, but younger children of the same
family will often excel in tact and general
ability, thus showing that the cultivation
of the mind of the parents has much to do
with the physical and mental development
of the child. Can a child pass through this
life, when well developed, easier than with-
out this great blessing? It is almost need-
less for me to say yes, from the fact that we
all know how hard it is for such children to
learn at school, while others learn with the
greatest ease. It is also easier for some chil-
dren to be kind than others, more industri-
ous, more mechanical, musical and poetical
and in everything else the same. Children 
partake more or less of the traits of their
ancestors, which have been brought about
by the cultivation of the body and mind.
Such being the case, how careful parents
should be to cultivate every trait of charac-
ter in themselves that they desire to see in
their children, and strictly observe all the 
known laws of nature appertaining to the
producing of their offspring.
	I am satisfied that careful training may,
to a great extent, improve or develop any
trait that may be good, or diminish and
weaken other traits that may abound too
much, to be controled by the child. The
training of some children is much harder
than that of others and requires a greater
amount of patience on the part of the par-
ents. Parents often, according to their own
peculiar pleasure, admire traits in their
children and take great delight in bringing
them to notice, thereby causing these traits
to grow stronger with the children's mental
and physical development; but if otherwise,
and the traits in the children are not suited
to their tastes, they are often neglected and
even abused, and not unfrequently, by ill-
treatment, are driven from home; whereas,
if the truth be known to their parents, these
children have come by those traits through
either their parents or grand parents. Some
children are fretful after they come to years
of understanding, for which I believe there
are good reasons. No man or woman is fit
to become a parent while he is or she is
fretful or bad-tempered.
	I believe it to be much easier for the Qua-
kers to keep their children from going to 
was than it is to keep the children of pugil-
ists or soldiers from doing so, because of
the peculiar training or development of
their parents.
	Jealousy is a trait of character cultivated
to a great extent by all parents, and so fond
of it are parents that they will frequently
tantilize a child by putting it away, and say-
ing, "you can't come here, this is Johnny's
place" or "come here, you may have this,"
when they really intend the other child to
have it against its will, and thereby adopt
that plan of compelling the child to eat it
rather than that the other should have it.
Thus parents often cultivate traits in their
children which in after years they despise
to see, although brought about by them-
selves. Children are quick to observe, and
will, to a great extent, follow the examples
set by their parents, especially in that which
is evil. 
	How can parents expect peaceable chil-
dren if they themselves quarrel? How can
they expect their children honest if they
themselves steal? How can they expect to
have truthful children if they themselves
cultivate an untruthful spirit, and their
children know it? Parents must expect
that these traits will be transmitted to their
children, unless their circumstances in life
are such as to cause their early separation,
and the association of the children with
others, which would enable them to follow
the natural traits of their own characters.
Under the care of such parents but very lit-
tle can be expected to be imparted to their
children; and depend upon it that children, 
begotten by such parents, will have great
difficulty in overcoming the many evils in
their natures, even under the best of train-
ing. Let all men try to learn the great les-
son, namely, "First govern thyself, before
thou undertakest to govern a wife" and be-
come the father of children; and let all par-
ents try to live and cultivate themselves in
such a manner as will result in the proper
development of their children, and they
will find in after years that they will have
great joy in their labors.—ELDER JOSEPH
BIRCH, in the "Millenial Star."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


MOTHERLESS.

		   SELECTED.

	A row of bright little faces,
		A patter of dear little feet
	And loving arms closely entwining,
		Mother's warm kisses to meet.
	Three little cups on the table,
		Three little chairs by the wall,
	Three little curly heads nestled,
		Each on its pillow so small.Ah! who cannot read me this riddle of joy?
They're mother's own darlings, each dear little boy.

	Three little tear-stained faces,
		Little bare unwashed feet,
	Shrinkingly, timidly stealing,
		In terror, lest blows they meet.
	Bare dry bread on the table,
		Cold hard bench by the wall,
	Straw, and a scanty torn blanket,
		That will hardly cover them all.
No kisses to-night on each little brow;
God pity and help them! They are motherless now.


R. S. REPORTS.

	MORONI, SANPETE CO., June 24th, 1874.
Dear Editor:—
    The members of the Relief Society, are
generally feeling well and ready to assist in
the great Work which lies before us. Many
deaths among the children, and a few among
adults have occurred through scarlet fever,
which, I am happy to say, has subsided.
Our Society have raised one hundred dollars
to assist in gathering the poor Saints: they
have donated upwards of forty dollars, with-
in the last few months for the benefit of those
at home who were sick and needy, and the
sisters have been very kind in visiting them
and administering to their wants. We, as
a Society, have been taking your paper and
desire to renew our subscription, wishing
the EXPONENT good success.
					JANE BAILEY.

		SPRING CITY June 9th, 1874.
Dear Editor :—
    We held our annual meeting June 4th.
It should have been May 4th, but President
Mary A. Hyde wished to attend conference,
and the sisters thought they would defer
it until her return. The transactions of the
year were reviewed, the Secretary’s, and
Treasurer’s report read, showing the Society
to be in good condition. We have done
more in the past year than in any one year
before, and all the sisters manifest a spirit
to continue in the work. President Mary
A. Hyde called a vote to see how many of
the Society were willing to join the United
Order. They were all willing to join it and
to do all the good they could. We are not
organized in it yet, as a society but will be
as soon as practicable. We are enjoying
general good health and have excellent
meetings; and hope God will bless all who
desire and seek to do good.
				P. E. Benson, Sec’y

     The Secretary writes from Fairview, San-
pete Co. The Relief Society of this place
met on the 13th of June, to celebrate their
6th anniversary. After the customary pre-
paratory proceedings, Bishop A. Tucker
expressed his satisfaction in having an op-
portunity of meeting with the society, spoke
in praise of their labors and financial con-
dition and said they had proved a blessing
to the people here. Mrs. Mary A. Prichett
was unanimously sustained as President,
Mrs Rebecca Tucker, first counselor. Mrs.
Hannah Cheeney was honorably released
from acting as second counselor on account
of old age, and Mrs. Peterson was elected in
her stead. Mrs. Tilitha Avery was sus-
tained as Secretary and Mrs. Sarah Terry as


Treasurer. A selected essay from the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT was then read followed
by poetry, remarks from the Bishop, solo on
the Organ, a general attraction to pies and
cakes, toasts and the announcement of a
dance for the evening. Meeting closed
with singing and prayer.
			MARY A. PRICHETT, Prest.
			TILITHA AVERY, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S VOICE.	

DEAR EXPONENT:—
	In reflecting on our position as the chosen
people of God, I sometimes think there are
many, especially among the young, who do
not realize the importance of living our re-
ligion strictly. If we did, fashion and pride
would have less foothold in our midst and
instead of being lifted up with pride be-
cause of our worldly possessions, the greater
our blessings the more humble we would be.
We see many of our people associating
with, and seeking the friendship of the
pleasant, agreeable gentlemen(?) who come
in our midst with the avowed intention of
doing all in their power to pull down "Mor-
monism." Some of the girls even get mar-
ried to them. Oh! girls where is your faith
in the religion you were born in or have
embraced? You know that you are casting
aside almost all hopes of an exaltation in
the Celestial Kingdom of our Heavenly
Father. You may plead the excuse that
they intend to join the Church after a while.
Then let them do so, and prove themselves
worthy of you before you risk your exalta-
tion in their hands. Better, far better be
the second wife of a good, faithful Latter-
day Saint, one that would exalt you, than
the only wife of a young man that is op-
posed to our religion, or any principle of it.
Let us not imagine, my young brethren and
sisters, that there is nothing for us to do be-
cause we are young, for such is not the case,
we will find all we can do, if we are prayer-
ful and seek to build up the Kingdom of
God. We have no time to lose in idleness;
it will take all the few years allotted to us,
to obtain an exaltation, and we should be
thankful if we can obtain it by a lifetime
devotion.					P. A. M.
	Richmond, Cache Co.


THE SEX.

	MRS. Myra Bradwell of the Chicago Le-
gal News is a Vice-President of the Illinois
State Press Association.

	MRS. Elizabeth Akers Allen (“Florence
Percy”), one of Maine’s sweetest poets, is to
spend the summer in Portland.

	MARY F. Eastman delivered the address
before the Literary Societies of Otterbein
University at Westerville, Ohio.

	THE Sorosis of New York has adopted
resolutions expressive of their esteem and
regard for their president, Mrs. C. B. Wil-
bour; who has gone on an extended Euro-
pean tour.

	A YOUNG English lady, who is not yet
twenty-three years old has painted a picture
named “Calling the Roll after an engage-
ment in the Crimea” which was placed on
exhibition at the Royal Academy, and elici-
ted special commendation.

	AT a meeting of the Mount Vernon La-
dies Association, held at Mount Vernon,
Madame Berghman, Vice-Regent for Penn-
sylvania, was unanimously elected Regent.
Her executive action during the past year


as Regent pro tem. was indorsed in compli-
mentary resolutions.

	A NEW college for the higher education of
women will be opened next September at
Northampton, Mass., with the foundation of
$358,000 left by Miss Sophia Smith. The
course is to cover four years and the exam-
inations for admission to be equivalent to
those at Brown and Amherst colleges.

	ACCORDING to the new Year Book there
are at present fifty-nine ladies in the differ-
ent departments of Boston University, ex-
clusive of those in the preparatory depart-
ments. They are distributed as follows:
in the College of Liberal Arts 4, in the Col-
lege of Music 9, in the School of Law 1, in
the School of Oratory 15, in the School of
Medicine 30.

	MRS. Vassail, who died lately at Worces-
ter, was a sister of Miss Clara Barton, and
was the first Northern woman who welcomed
the Old Sixth at Washington after its fa-
mous march through Baltimore. She lived
at Washington all through the war, and de-
voted herself to the soldiers in the hospitals,
where undoubtedly she contracted the dis-
ease which caused her death. The Univer-
salist society of Washington have passed
resolutions of sorrow at her death.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	JOHNNY was telling his ma how he was
going to dress and show off when he was a
man. His ma asked “Johnny, how do
you expect to get your living when you are
a man?” “Well,” said Johnny, “I’ll get
married, and live with my wife's pa."
	"WON'T you ever tell?" whispered a girl
to a group of playmates,
	“No, no; only my mother,” answered a
third.
	“But you must not tell her,”
	“I will not hear what my mother may
not know,” she replied, and withdrew. And
that girl was safe.
	COL. Tom Scot was hailed on the street,
lately by a little bootblack with; "Boss, have
yer boots shined?" The Col. pleasantly shook
his finger at him, saying. "My boy, I'm no
boss." The little waif swung his box over
his shoulder, and eyeing him from head to
foot, replied: "You'r boss of yer boots, ain't
you?"
	HOW touchingly beautiful this is! Three
little New Hampshire girls, not long since,
lost their mother by death. Hearing that a
lady friend of the family was dying, these
three little children went to their grand-
mother, called her aside, and whispered in
her ear: "Mrs. — is dying, and we want
you to go and tell her to give our best love
to our mother.
	A SCHOOL girl of one of the rural dis-
tricts of Ohio, was heard trying to convince
a school boy that she liked him better than
she did some other urchin of whom he seem-
ed jealous. "Of course I like you better than
I do Bill," said she, "for don't I miss words
in my spelling lesson on purpose, so as to
be down to the foot of the class where you
are?"
	AT a school examination, one of the visi-
tors made a brief address to the pupils on
the necessity of obeying their teachers and
growing up loyal and useful citizens. To
give emphasis to his remarks, he pointed
to a large national flag on one side of the
room and enquired, "Boys, what is that
flag for?" A little urchin who understood
the condition of the house better than the
speaker, promptly answered, "To cover up
the dirt, sir."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES
	ADVANTAGES AND BEST METHOD OF
WALKING.—The special advantages of walk-
ing, as an exercise, are many. Perhaps the
most important is that it takes us out of
doors, and keeps us there in the pure air and
bright sunshine. The exercise, which is
gentle and prolonged, increases not only the
frequency but the fulness of respiration, thus
bringing a much larger quantity of oxygen
into the lungs and through them, to the
blood, thereby giving the finishing touch to
the process of digestion and vitalizing “the
red current of life.” Another advantage
to respiration is this:—When a person is sit-
ting or standing still, the exhaled air from
the lungs, which is unfit to be breathed
again, fills the space about the face, and a
portion of it is taken into the lungs at the
next breath; especially is this the case if the
head is bent forward; but when a person is
walking and expels the air from his lungs,
his head is carried past the expired air be-
fore he draws in another breath, and thus
he gets a supply of pure air, with its full
proportion of oxygen, at every inspiration,
and thus is the vigor and vivacity which re-
sults from exercise in the open air partially
accounted for. Walking is very beneficial
to the digestive organs, by the gentle yet
constant motion which it imparts to them,
and which is essential to their long-con-
tinued healthful action. It brings into ac-
tion and properly develops more muscles
than any other mode of exercise. It also
tends to equalize the circulation of blood.
	One great objection to walking is that it
takes so much time. True, it takes some
time; more, as a general thing, than it does
to ride: but so does the accomplishment of
anything desirable; and is not good health
desirable? In the end, however, it results
in the saving of time, by preserving the
health and increasing the vigor of all the
physical and mental functions. In no way
is there so much time wasted, to say nothing
of vitality, as in being ill; and yet people
are unwilling to give a little time to keep-
ing well!
	To obtain the greatest amount of good
from walking, it must, like everything else,
be done right. In the first place, it is al-
ways best to have some definite object in
view when going out to walk, some particu-
lar place or object of interest to see, some
purpose to accomplish, or some friend to
visit, and not walk merely for the purpose
of walking, if any other object can be at-
tained at the same time. But better walk
without any object than not walk at all. The
position of the body while walking is of
great importance. The body should incline
slightly forward from the hips, if walking
slowly, and the inclination should increase
according to the rapidity of the walk. The
head should be kept on a line with the body,
the shoulders and hips held back, and the
chest unimpeded in its action by tight cloth-
ing or otherwise. The arms should be al-
lowed to swing freely at the side. The res-
piration should be carried on entirely through
the nostrils, and not through the mouth. In
commencing a long walk, walk slowly at
first, and gradually increase the speed. In-
valids, and persons whoare unaccustomed to
walking, should begin with short walks, be-
ing careful not to overdo, and increase the
distance their as strength and endurance in-
crease. Any one who will practise this pre-
cept—never ride when you can just as well
walk—will not only be more vigorous and
healthy but will accomplish far more than
he or she otherwise would.

	SIMPLE REMEDIES FOR DIARREA:—Ripe
fruits and berries, slightly acid, will remove
the ordinary diarreas of early summer.
	Common rice, parched brown like coffee,
and then boiled and eaten in the ordinary
way, without any other food, is, with per-
fect quietude of body, one of the most ef-
fective remedies for troublesome looseness
of the bowels.
	Some of the severest forms of that dis-
tressing ailment called dysentery, when
the bowels pass blood, with constant desire
and vain efforts to stool, are sometimes en-
tirely cured by the patient eating at the time
a heaping tablespoonful of raw beef, cut up
very fine, and repeated at intervals of four
hours, until cured, eating and drinking
nothing else in the meanwhile.—Halls'
Jour. of Health.


﻿DIVERSIONS.

	CAN a lover be called a suitor when he
doesn’t suit her?
	THE “refined young man” has been fined
the second time.
	A PAPER that has many fine points.—A
paper of needles.
	NO professional man lives so much from
hand to mouth as a Dentist.
	HOW to turn people’s heads.—Come into a
concert late with creaky boots.
	HONEST ducks dip their heads under wa-
ter to liquidate their little bills.
	WHERE is the man who can always get
bread when he needs (kneads) it?—You
will find him in the baker.
	TWO young ladies of La Crosse were stand-
ing by the side of a ditch, 13 feet wide,
which they didn’t know how to cross, when
their escort said, “snakes!” and they cleared
it at a bound.
	IT was expected when Anna Dickinson
rode to the top of Pike’s Peak, that she
would have made a speech on the occasion;
but it seems that, for once, she was willing
to let Pike speak alone.
	“THE arrangements of nature are admir-
able,” exclaimed a young lady during the
late high winds. “The same wind which
disarranges our dress blows dust into the
eyes of the would-be observers.”
	A SCHOOL-GIRL, during her examination,
repeatedly miscalled patriarchs partridges,
whereupon one of the auditors remarked,
“She is making game of patriarchs.” This,
Sydney Smith said, was the most perfect
pun he knew.
	A TALKATIVE man annoyed a lady at a
dinner party by constantly arguing in fa-
vor of strong drink, and at last said to her,
“You know, madam, that drinking drives
away cares, and makes us forget what is dis-
agreeable. Would you not allow a man to
drink for that reason?” “Well, perhaps so,”
said the lady, “if he sat next to you!”
	AN inebriate, some little while back, got
into a car, and became very troublesome and
annoying to the other passengers, so much
so that it was proposed to eject him; but a
kind-hearted and reverend doctor, who was
also a passenger, interposed for him, and
soothed him into good behavior for the re-
mainder of the journey. Before leaving;
however, he scowled upon the other occu-
pants, and uttered some words of contempt,
but shook hands warmly with the doctor,
and said, “Good-day, my friend; I see you
know what it is to be drunk.”
	THERE is a woman in London who cannot
[right column]
speak without rhyming. The effect of this
when she is attending to the ordinary house-
hold duties, must often be remarkable. It
is, we suppose, something like this:—“Mary
Jane, go right up stairs, and sweep, and
make the bed, and do it quickly, too, d’ye
hear! or else I’ll punch your head.” Or
this;—“It would give me, Matilda, enor-
mous relief, if you’d cook those potatoes
and greens with the beef.” Or this;—“Al-
phonso, you are eating now your fifteenth
currant cake! the next thing you’ll be howl-
ing with a frightful stomach ache.” Or
this;—“Louisa, put your bustle on, and get
your woolen shawl, and come with me to
Mrs. J’s to make a little call; it makes no
difference, my child, what bonnet you may
wear, but, for gracious’ sake, Louisa, comb
and frizz your hair."
	ON the evening train from Albany, re-
cently, was a woman bound for Westfield,
who persisted in requesting the affable con-
ductor to inform her when Chester was
reached. Every time when the conductor
passed through the car, he was greeted
with: “Please tell me when we get to Ches-
ter.” Courteous man though he is, even
his patience was finally exhausted, and he
politely requested the unfortunate female to
maintain silence, as he had heard and would
heed her injunction. Chester was finally
reached, and “Chester” was yelled at the
car door. The train again started, and the
conductor mounted the car in which was his
persecutor. “Will you tell me when we
get to Chester?” she said. “This is Ches-
ter,” he exclaimed, and, grasping the bell-
rope; he had the train back up to the station.
“I’m real glad you obliged me,” said the
daughter of Eve to the exasperated conduc-
tor “My husband used to live here.”
	MAX Adeler says: We learn from an ex-
change that “The Legislature of Massachu-
setts has lately passed a law making it nec-
essary that a dozen eggs weigh one and one-
half pounds.” We approve of this. The
hens have too long had their own way in
this business of laying eggs, and they have
constantly defrauded the public. It is high
time this outrage was crushed, and we are
glad that the Legislature of Massachusets
is going to do it. If free American citizens
are to be imposed upon with impunity by
debauched and corrupt chickens, the gov-
ernment for which William Penn fought
and John Hancock died, is a disgraceful
failure. Hereafter Massachusetts hens will
either have to lay two ounce eggs or emi-
grate. The people will submit to their tyr-
ranny no longer. They have borne the yolk
until it has become unendurable. They de-
nounce present eggs as eggstortion, and
hens they demand a reform with the deter-
mination to draw up this chicken bill and
pullet through the legislature.


THE wife of Marshal Bazaine is a volun-
tary prisoner, under exactly the same regu-
lations as her husband. She is a Mexican,
with dark, lustrous eyes, eyebrows beauti-
fully curved, mouth indicating unusal reso-
lution, a radiant, lovely face, tinged with
carmine, and lips like cherries. She said:
“When I married the Marshal I was seven-
teen. He was at the summit of power,
with fortune and friends to support his fu-
ture, and not a shadow to overcast it. He
gave me that bright and enviable position,
and when power and friends have vanished,
my place is by his side, to share the crust of
bread and all the privations with the same
devotion and affection that were due to him
in the zenith of his prosperity.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
L. GREENE RICHARDES, Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1 00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space,  one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
      Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p m. on Mondays and Fridays.
   Address all business communications to
		Publishers Woman's Exponent,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. July 1, 1874.


﻿FLORAL HINTS.

WALKS AND TALKS AMONG THE FLOWERS.

DEAR EXPONENT:—
	In our last “talk” we were planting the
seeds of flowers which are now well up, no
doubt; so a few hints as to management will
be quite proper and we hope acceptable. In
the selection of flowers, for either house or
garden culture, preference should, in most
cases, be given to those yielding an agreea-
ble odor, providing the bloom is reasonably
showy, or the plant interesting.
	Among those very fragrant, and also
showy, suited for either out or indoor cul-
ture, the double Ten-weeks Stock is fore-
most, and of easy culture. If planted too
thick, transplant to six inches apart. If you
desire to save seeds, leave the single, bloom-
ing near the double ones until seed is ripe.
These seeds will produce again, both single
and double. If you do not care for seeds,
destroy the single flowering when they 
bloom. Of this flower there are great vari-
eties of color; to-day we counted eight
shades of color in our bed of stocks.
The Verbena, with its thousand shades
and colors, is a very interesting plant for
both garden and pot culture,  is easily raised
—generally fragrant and will bloom all the
year round—grows readily from layers, or
slips and blooms directly. Every lady should
have a bed or border of Vebenas through
the summer and in autumn: select the sorts
most desirable and pot for winter blooming.
	Mignonette, (Reseda Odorata,) though it
gives no beauty of bloom, yields a powerful
fragrance and is considered indispensable to
the bouquet,grows well in pots or outdoors.
For winter use should be sown in autumn.
	Portulacca or moss rose(?)—with its sever-
al shades of color, is a desirable plant, in-
doors or out, or for the hanging basket.
Start seeds in a pot, keep damp and shaded.
It may be safely transplanted, and makes a
fresh, gay appearance.
	Astors are in great variety of color, size
and shape; very showy, and may be trans-
planted successfully with care; are better for
the garden than for house culture as their
period of bloom is comparitively short.
	Phlox, (Drumondii) is a lovely annual, of
easy culture and great variety and profusion
of bloom; should be grown outdoors in beds
or masses, plants a few inches apart, assisted
by sticks to keep upright; blooms a long
time, very showy and fragrant.
	Nasturtian, (Indian Cress) annual, plants
to be placed ten inches a part; handsome fo-
liage, flowers rich and various in color; the
seed or fruit when green and tender makes
the most delicate pickles; keep it up with
sticks or brush.
	Ice, or Dew plant, is one of the richest
for hanging baskets, a rapid grower, annual.
There are many varieties. Some native
sorts grow around Utah Lake. Some vari-
eties have a more icy look than others.
They all grow well as garden or pot plants.
The variety generally known as Dew plant,
will grow a yard long if well cared for.
	China Pinks and Hadwigii are perennials,
blooming the first year; nice garden or house
plants, constant bloomers, in endless variety
and gay enough; plant ten inches apart, cut
off the blossom stems as soon as out of bloom.
They are of the very easiest culture and
perfectly hardy.
	Pansies must have a shaded, moist situa-
tion to thrive in summer. They are indeed
beautiful, propagated from end or division
of the roots. They bloom in every variety
of shade and make lovely pot plants. They
like a humid atmosphere, and pine in a hot,
dry one.
	Geraniums, Pelargoniums and Fuchsias
are more expensive and less common plants,
and especially the last named is more ten-
der and needs greater care. It is generally
cheaper to obtain these from florists than
to raise them unless it be from cuttings.
	The Oleander is a tender house-plant and
the bloom very showy and fragrant. The
red and white, most common, may be easily
rooted from tender cuttings about six inches
long. Cut off the lower leaves, and with a
sharp knife slit the bark at the bottom in
several places; place in the mouth of a bot-
tle with stem half an inch in the water;
stand in the shade till the roots are two in-
ches long, then carefully pot.
	Tie Dahlias to smooth stakes as soon as
they get well up, and continue to tie as they
grow, trimming off all suckers and lower
branches.
	The Maderia vine is one of the sweetest,
most graceful and beautiful flowering plants
of all climbers.
			More anon.		FLORA.
	P. S. First apricots and apples we picked
to-day—Raspberries and gooseberries begin
to ripen. You see, woman like, I had to
add a postscript, but I’ll mind I don’t next
time.							F.


AN ENTERPRISING LADY.

	A fine collection of curiosities, specimens of
minerals, animals, birds, shells, etc. have been
made by Mrs. Maxwell, of Colorado Territory,
chiefly through her own exertions. This collec-
tion under the name of the Rocky Mountain
Museum, is now thrown open to the public.
	While recently taking a glance, at our City
Museum, the gentlemanly manager, Prof. J.
L. Barfoot, in the course of the conversation
spoke of the enterprising spirit and ability of
Mrs. Maxwell with whom he has had some ac-
quantance—especially refering to her as a nat-
uralist and one skilled in taxidermy, or the
art of preserving the skins of animals, birds,
etc. so as to give them the appearance of life.
He showed us some specimens of stuffed na-
tive birds, prepared by this lady, which evin-
ced skill and fine artistic taste. Following we
give a paragraph taken from the Boulder
County (Col.) News, of the 5th ult., and de-
scriptive of the opening of Mrs. Maxwell’s
Museum.

	“The event of the week was the opening,
last evening, of the Rocky Mountain Museum,
an occasion celebrated with flags and music as
befitted an occurance so significant of benefit
to this country. The Boulder Brass Band, and
the String Band were out. The exhibition it-
self caused quite a sensation, the collection of
curiosities and specimens being unexpectedly
full and fine. Mrs. Maxwell is indefatigable


in her profession as a taxidermist and collector
in natural history. As one of the visitors last
evening enthusiastically remarked, “Why she
has everything in air, sea, earth, or under the
earth imaginable." It is well called the Rocky
Mountain Museum, as she and her assistant,
Prof. Glass, have laid the whole Rocky Moun-
tain region under representation of fauna, fos-
sils, and minerals. Her visit to the Pacific
coast last season was for the express purpose of
collecting for this Museum, relics, curious spec-
imens, and objects of interest in natural his-
tory, and it is wonderful how much her tact
and energy has accomplished. Every beast of
the forest and plain, from the big buffalo and
huge cinnamon, to the field mouse and mole;
every bird of the air; rare fishes and shells from
the seas; barbarian armor and relics; and name-
less things, arranged with infinite patience and
cunning art. One said the collection is now as
good as Wood’s Museum, of Chicago, was be-
fore the great fire destroyed it, except in big
fossil specimens. It is sarcasticly suggested
that the big fossils can be supplied from ’bout
here.”


A NEW ADDITION.

	Our many friends, personal and otherwise,
will doubtless be gratified to learn of our con-
tinued good fortune; and every true woman,
especially hopeful young mothers, upon read-
ing this, will be able to sympathize with us in
the pleasure and gratitude we feel in making
the following announcement. To-day—we write
upon on date of Saturday, June 27th—at twen-
ty-six minutes past five a. m. a new addition
was made to the editorial family of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT in the form of a fine little
daughter. We also deem that we will be con-
sidered excusable for presenting to our readers
the following lines, addressed to our worthy
husband, Mr. Levi Willard Richards, upon
this occasion.

				OUR OWN.

Yours and mine, dearest—how the Lord blesses
Those who but trust to His care!
Where is the monarch or queen who possesses,
A token more dainty and rare?
Our own little one, our beautiful treasure,  
So holy and sacred and pure!	
Ah who! who would not for such infinit pleasure
The risks and the trials endure?
Lay her up close to me, sit here beside me,
Nay! Do not take her away!
"Talking too much dear?" please do not chide me,
Stay not sweet impulse to-day.
Let’s talk of our own, our blessed, God-given,
And pray in our hearts all the while,
That we may have wisdom to lead her to heaven,
To keep her from sorrow and guile.
To keep her! Ah yes, until time shall surround her
With jewels through faithfulness won,
Till angels of light shall with glory have crowned her,
Declaring her mission well done.
I deem her not sweeter, or brighter, or fairer,
Than other fond parents have known; 
Or that the event of her coming is rarer—
'Tis only this, SHE IS OUR OWN!


THE POLAND BILL.

	The forty-third Congress adjourned “sine
die” on the 23rd of June. One of its last acts
was to pass a bill introduced by Mr. Poland, of
Vermont, entitled “An act in relation to courts
and judicial officers in the Territory of Utah.”
This was one of the too numerous proscriptive
and unjust bills for the regulation (?) of affairs
in this Territory, which were intruded on the
attention of our national law-making body dur-
ing its late session. But we are happy to say that
it was so amended that many of its worst fea-
tures were left out by the time it passed through
both houses. It has been freely commented on
by the local and general press, and at present,
with our limited space, we do not feel like say-
ing more about a measure, the wisdom and jus-
tice of which we are not able to discern.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EXPLANATION.

	We hope our kind readers will readily excuse
the lateness of the present issue, when we offer
in explanation that we, in consequence of ill-
ness, are now unable to write except by dicta-
ing to another, and we were disappointed in
not having editorial assistance upon which we
had depended. Added to this Miss Horne, the
Business Manager, is still suffering from a se-
vere jar caused by the upsetting of a coach on
which she was riding. These causes may affect
the punctuality of the succeeding number, but
we hope not, for, regretting the delay as much
as our readers, we mean to have it out to time
if possible.


﻿NEW EXCHANGE.

	We take pleasure in placing the “Beaver
Enterprise” on our list of exchanges. It is
edited by Daniel Tyler not David, as incor-
rectly stated, through misinformation, in our
notice of the recent editorial change at the of-
fice of that paper. As a regular visitor, we feel
to welcome the “Enterprise” and trust it will
prove a success as long as it aims to be an able
advocate for, and defender of the best interests
of the people.


MADE A CITIZEN.

	We learn from the Salt Lake "Herald" that
Mrs. Elsa Johnson—a Swedish lady—was nat-
uralized in the Third District Court, on the 17th
ult,. and according to that spicy paper, "The
lady answered the questions in Judge
McKean's polygamic catechism without flinch-
ing."
	This, so far as we are aware, is the first in-
stance of the naturalization of a lady in this
Territory, but we see no reason why women
should not take advantage of the naturaliza-
tion law as well as men, when they would be
benefited by so doing.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UNITED Order is said to be working well
in Beaver county and in the southern part of
Utah.
	ALL MAIL matter for Cache and Box Elder
counties is now carried by the Utah Northern 
Railroad.
	THE LADIES of Provo have petitioned the
city council to prohibit the sale of intoxicating
drinks except for medicinal purposes. 
	ELDERS DAVID McKenzie, John Henry
Smith, L. John Nuttall and Peter St. Clair
left on the 29th ult. to fulfil missions in Europe
	WE LEARN from the Deseret News that
"Bro. Horace S. Eldrege has a large quantity
of rye straw, which Relief Society ladies and
others desiring to braid can obtain by calling
upon him, free of charge."
	AN EARTHQUAKE, though not a severe one,
was plainly felt by many in this city on the
night of June 17th. The shock, though
rather light, was also felt in Weber and Summit
counties.
	A GRANITE POST, prepared by Morris and
Evans, is to be placed in the Great Salt Lake 
near Clinton's Hotel about a mile from Black
Rock. Its purpose is to denote the rise or fall
of the lake which is said to have become con-
siderably higher since the country was first
settled.
	THE OFFICES of City Water Master and Su-


pervisor of streets have formerly been held by
one person, but the duties of each having
grown so numerous and important as to require
the attention of one person alone, Mr. Wm.
Hyde has been appointed supervisor, Mr. Isaac
Groo retaining the office of general water mas-
ter.


UTAH EDUCATIONAL BUREAU.

    This organization, established in the in-
terests of education in Utah, proposes to act
as an agency for all kinds of educational in-
telligence. It will furnish information;—to
school officers, who want qualified teachers;
to teachers who want suitable positions; to
schools, needing furniture and apparatus,
concerning the most approved and suitable
styles, either of eastern or home manufac-
ture; to Literary Societies and Sunday
schools, wanting suitable books for their li-
braries; concerning the location, character,
and facilities of the principle institutions of
learning in the United States; concerning
the importation of foreign books for public
or private libraries, free of duty; concern-
ing the titles, authors, and publishers of the
principal works extant on almost every sub-
ject; also in relation to appropriate, and
economical plans and architectural designs
for all kinds of school buildings.
    Persons having remainders, or lots of
books, or any rare, standard, or curious work
to part with, may find sale for them through
the Bureau.
    The Bureau will also make out lists of ap-
propriate books for general and special libra-
ries.
	OF SPECIAL IMPORTANCE TO SCHOOL
		OFFICERS AND TEACHERS.
	The Bureau proposes to open communica-
tion with teachers out of employment or
desiring a change of location, and with
trustees and other school officers wishing to
engage a teacher. The object of the Bu-
reau, in this respect, is mutual accommoda
tion and benefit to employers and employed;
that teachers may obtain positions best sui-
ted to their abilities, and that every school
may secure a suitable teacher.
    The design is to represent,. in every re-
spect, the whole Territory. No responsi-
bility, however, will be taken by the Bureau,
in supplying teachers and positions, beyond
placing such applicants found on its register
in communication with such others as are
deemed most nearly suited to their require-
ments. To cover expenses, a charge of two
and a half dollars will be made for, and
must accompany each application.

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR POSITION AS
			TEACHER.

      Applicants will answer the following
			questions.
1. What is your age?
2. Where educated?
3. What branches can you teach? (Under-
        score branches in which you are specially
	proficient.)
4. Have you taught?
5. If so, how long and where?
6. Are you married or single?
7. If a church member, of what denomina-
	tion?
8. What salary do you expect?
9. The lowest you will accept?
10. Have you preference as to locality?
11. When can you commence?
12. What certificates or recommendations do
	you hold?
13. What references can you give? (Give
	names and address in full.)
14. For how long will you engage?
  FORM OF APPLICATION FOR A TEACHER.
	Applicants will answer the following
			questions. 
1. The name and locality of school?
2. What branches to be taught?
3. Is a lady or gentleman wanted?
4. Have you preference as to age?
5. What is the average number of pupils and
	their age?
6. What salary will you pay?
7. How is it to be paid?
8. Is board included?
9. If without board, what does board cost?
10. Must the teacher be a church member; if
	so, of what denomination?
11. How long will you engage?
12. When must the teacher commence?
13. Will you pay traveling expenses?
	Too full particulars cannot be given.
  Applicants will remain three months on
the register of the Bureau, unless sooner filled.
Address—
				JOHN R. PARK,
				   University of Deseret,
					     SALT LAKE CITY.
  Preserve this for future reference.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	The breweries of Great Britain consume
nearly 60,000,000 pounds of sugar annually.
	IN Scotland the salaries of certificated
teachers are, for men $550 a year, and $290
for women.
	EASTON, Pa., has 800 marriageable young
ladies, for whom there are no visible pros-
spective husbands.
	FIFTY thousand pounds of sugar from 1,
000 trees have been made by Mr. Slayton
of Stowe, Vt.
	THE statistics of the United States Pa-
tent Office show that the inventive genius
of Connecticut is unrivaled. More patents,
in proportion to the population, being issued
to that State than to any other. Massachu-
setts ranks next, then Rhode Island, New
York and New Jersey.
	HOW WOMEN VOTE IN ENGLAND.—The
London "Examiner" says: "In sixty-six
municipal elections, out of every 1000 wo-
men who enjoy equal rights with men on
the register, 516 went to the polls, which
is but 48 less than the proportionate num-
ber of men. And out of 27,949 women
registered, where a contest occurred, 14, 416
voted. Of men there were 166,781 on the
register, and 90,080 at the poll." The "Ex-
aminer" thereupon draws this conclusion:
"Making allowance for the reluctance of old
spinsters to change their habits and the
more frequent illness of the sex, it is mani-
fest that women do exercise the franchise as
freely as men. 
	ORIGIN OF THE DOLLAR-MARK.—We
suppose the following theories upon the ori-
gin of the dollar-mark are all that can be ad-
vanced.
	First—It is a combination of U.S., the in-
itials of the United States.
	Second—That it is a modification of the
figure 8, the dollar formerly being called a
piece of eight.
	Third—That it is a combination of P. and
S, from the peso dura, signifying hard dol-
lar. 
	Fourth—that it is derived from the repre-
sentation of the "Pillars of Hercules," con-
sisting of two pillars connected with a
scroll.
	Fifth—That it is a combination of H S.,
the mark of the Roman money unit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NATURE'S WORSHIP.

	 BY J. G. WHITTIER.

The harp at Nature's advent strung
Has never ceased to play;
The song the stars of morning sung
Has never died away.

And prayer is made, and praise is given,
By all things near and far;
The ocean looketh up to heaven
And mirrors every star.

Its waves are kneeling on the strand,
As kneels the human knee,
Their white locks bowing to the sand,
The priesthood of the sea!

They pour their glittering treasures forth,
Their gifts of pearls they bring,
And all the listening hills of earth
Take up the song they sing.

The green earth sends her incense up
From many a mountain shrine:
From folded leaf and dewy cup
She pours her sacred wine.

The mists above the morning rills
Rise white as wings of prayer;
The altar curtains of the hills
Are sunset's purple air.

The winds with hymns of praise are loud,
Or low with sounds of pain;
The thunder organ of the cloud,
The dropping tears of rain.

With drooping head and branches crossed,
The twilight forest grieves,
Or speaks with tongues of pentecost
From all its sunlit leaves.

The blue sky is the temple arch,
Its transept, earth and air,
The music of its starry march
The chorus of a prayer.

So Nature keeps the reverent frame
With which her years began,
And all her signs and voices shame
The prayerless heart of man.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Hints on Domestic Economy.—There is no fea-
ture of domestic economy so much neglected by
housewives as the economy of time. My own ex-
perience has taught, and teaches me, that it is too
apt to be one of the last of the economies thought
of by the housewife. I know that time is the one
item of which the most is wasted, and which, if
economized as it should be, would and does afford
the hard-worked, careful housewife the most direct
relief of any measure yet invented. So thoroughly
do I know this, that one of my first efforts, when I
get "a new girl" to help me, is to teach her the or-
der in which I want my work done, and to see that
she does nothing out of that order!
	Some of my good sisters will ask, "How do you
do it?" I do it by overseeing the work myself,
by directing and aiding in its performance, and by
practicing what I preach. Only one thing is at-
tempted or done at a time. As soon as the bed-
rooms are empted of their occupants, myself or my
girl, open the windows and toss up the beds to be
aired. Meantime one of us attends to the break-
fast and does nothing else. The preparations for
breakfast, so far as practicable, are made the night
before. The table is laid in the dining room, and
the vegetables and meats prepared. Breakfast
over the first thing is to wash the dishes and lay the
table for dinner, preparing such food as requires a
long time to cook for that meal. Then the cham-
ber work is done—slops emptied, and everything
that pertains to chamber work is completed.
Other rooms are then put to rights. If there is
washing to do, the clothes are put in soak the night
before, and with my washing machine and wringer,
the work is quickly performed; but it is never
commenced until the breakfast things are out of
the way, and the chamber and room-work done.
Specific hours are devoted to sewing. They come
in their order. If not completed in the hours set
aside for it a gain on other work is made. The
[right column]
sewing is not allowed to infringe upon the necessary
daily work which ministers to the comfort and
health of the family.
	By such system I find that I have time for all
the work the housewife ought to be expected to do.
If more help is necessary to do any class of work,
I insist upon having it just as my husband insists
upon having help in the harvest field when his crops
are ripe. If it seems to cost extra, there is extra
gain. My work is never behind. It is not allowed
to be so. It is economy not to have it so. I ac-
complish far more, and it costs far less for help
than it did when I followed the hap-hazzard way
of working. Of course it requires the co-opera-
tion of the men-folk; but I have yet to learn that a
systematic wife and mother cannot teach her hus-
band, sons and daughters to be systematic.—R.
N. Y.
	Preparing for Company.—In preparing for com-
pany look more to their comfort and entertainment
than to your reputation as a housekeeper. If they
are true friends, or have much regard for you,
they will rather have plain fare and know that you
are enjoying their society, than to fare sumptuously
and be entertained in elaborate style, and know
that you are anxious and worried and that their
presence is a burden to you. If they are of that
class who visit you merely for the sake of criticising
or commenting upon your household arrangements
and manner of living, or for their own personal
gratification, it were better that you should give
them a short cut, and not entertain them at all.
	Testing Molassess.—It is asserted that much of
the syrup molasses in common use is a poisonous
compound, composed of rags and sawdust decom-
posed by muriatic acid, and so prepared as to look
and taste like the best syrup. This counterfeit
syrup can be readily detected by putting a tea-
spoonful in a cup of strong tea. If the syrup con-
tains acid it immediately combines with the tannin
of the tea and makes a black, dirty looking mix-
ture. The bottom of the teacup, after standing a
while, is covered with black dregs resembling dust
from old cloth. Those who use syrup should be
on the watch for this injurious article, which is
doubtless innocently sold by many storekeepers.


﻿TWO HEROINES.

	A gentle little quakeress, now in the Treasury,
saved the Union troops at Winchester.    Her fam-
ily was the only loyal family in the town, and
Sheridan, in sore need, determined to risk the
chance of reaching them, asking for any informa-
tion they could give about the rebels. So he dis-
patched an old negro to the house. When the
messenger arrived this girl was the only one at the
house, Appreciating the need of promptness she
wrote a full and accurate account of the enemie’s po-
sition and resources. She folded her message in a
little ball of tin-foil, and made the colored man
carry it under his tongue. She dispatched him at
midnight, and beyond the success of the battle
next day, she heard nothing from her distinguished
correspondent for months. War seldom respects
the courtesies of life; but the first leisure moment
that General Sheridan had he sent her a beautiful
watch with an inscription testifying his gratitude in
very complimentary terms; and dangling from the
chain is a tiny gold cavalry sabre that can be drawn
out of its sheath.
	In the same department there was another hero-
ine who was one of the few loyal inhabitants of
Richmond when the days were darkest for North-
ern people. The horrors of Libby prison were
unmitigated, and every effort to relieve the wretch-
ed victims exposed the helpers to equal hardships.
Notwithstanding this vigilance four of the prison-
ers managed by chance to partially excavate a pas-
sage for escape, when suspicion was aroused and
their plan threatened with discovery. The inevita-
ble consequence would be death of course. Even
if they could have got out of the prison, their con-
dition would not have been much better, for they


would have been utter strangers to the country. In
this extremity the news of her compatriots’ peril
was brought to this brave woman. She sent them
word that if they could get outside of the wall by
the earliest dawn the following day she would guide
them safely. They worked you may be sure. Poor
creatures, it was life itself they were working for,
and in the faint gray cold morning light their eyes
fell upon a tall, handsome market woman who sig-
nalled them to follow her. They did.
	She walked boldly along the highway with her
basket of vegetables in her hand, they creeping
stealthily through the brambles in woods that skir-
ted the road. And so she guided them twelve
miles—remember they were men whom she had
never seen before, and to serve them she was aban-
doning her husband and her home, for there was
no going back to Richmond after that. They all
reached the Union lines safely, and subsequently
one hundred and five more escaped by the same
subterranean passage. Her husband rejoined her
shortly; the men she never has heard of again nor
would she know them if she did. They never saw
her face nor she theirs.—“Washington Cor., Inter-
Ocean."


FLOWERS.
	PROVERBS are the children of Experi-
ence.
	GOOD humor is the girdle that binds
friendship to love.
	IT is a short step from modesty to humil-
ity; but a shorter one from vanity to folly.
	READING makes a full man; conversation,
a ready man; and writing, an exact man.
	AFFECTION can scarcely be excited, and
certainly cannot long subsist unless it is
founded on esteem.
	REVENGE is a kind of wild justice, which
the more man's nature runs to, the more
ought law to weed it out.
	NEXT to the sweetness of having a friend
whom you can trust is that of having a 
friend who will trust you.
	PLEASURE loves the garden and  flow-
ers; labor the fields and the grain; devotion
loves the mountains and the skies.
	THERE is a deportment which suits the
figure and talents of each person; it is al-
ways lost when we quit it to assume that of
another.—Rousseau.
	ACTIONS speak more forcibly than words;
they are the tests of character. Like fruit
upon the tree, they show the nature of the
man; while motives, like the sap are hidden
from our view.
	SAVE SOMETHING.—Whatsoever your in-
come may be, try and save something. A
ribbon less, a jewel less, a silk dress less, ac-
cording to  your style of living, will never
hurt you; and a little put by, now, and then,
will make a tidy sum after a few years.
	FALSE pride keeps many a man in anxiety.
His income allows a moderate style of liv-
ing, but he is ashamed of living within it.
He must be stylish. So there is neither
peace in his heart nor rest in his brain, and
bills he cannot pay are forever becoming
due, and duns are forever at his door.
	ANGER.—There is a noble and an ignoble
anger. There are moments and situations
in life when one requires a burst of anger
to be able to grapple powerfully and lend
justice a strong helping hand. But such
moments come seldom; and the danger of
falling, in the annoyances and little vexa-
tions of everyday life from a noble to an ig-
noble anger, is so great, that we ought to do
all we can to govern this emotion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
    ACQUIRING AND IMPARTING
		   KNOWLEDGE.

	"How can we attain to knowledge?" is
the question that is asked by the millions. 
In order to meet our anticipations or expec-
tations, we must consider economy in all its
bearings—economy of time, economy of
labor, economy of material, economy of
dress, economy of outward and inward re-
sources; all will add more less to our acqui-
sitions.
	Time is the great ocean that spreads be-
yond our conception, and it is only known
by man while his earthly existence lasts,
and short is his duration. The brain is the
compass, as man travels the great ocean of
life; and thinking is the main key to unlock
the store house of knowledge. Knowledge
is power, and having power sufficient, we
could live eternally: but in the great wis-
dom of God, He has decreed that we should
be limited in this power, by certain fixed
laws, otherwise, we would thwart His pur-
poses. We were deprived of the know-
ledge  to acquire knowledge by application
and observation, through the faculties of the
brain—the intuitive faculties which God has
given us as tools or means by which we can
attain to knowledge, and live eternally.
The mind commenced its expansion, as the
body expands, from its infancy, yet there
are children whom nature has denied abili-
ties. We can only pity their condition.
No teacher need expect to succeed in such
instances. Physicians are not supposed to
supply brains in an empty skull, much less
a tutor. Still there are resources to an al-
most entirely inactive brain, and encourage-
ment is the great whet-stone that will
brighten and give new life to a brain that
would otherwise sleep the sleep of years.
But neglected or abused, like a hidden bul-
let in a wound, it heals up and becomes cal-
loused over, and wonted to its destined fate.
In such a case, let the tutor probe the wound
and give the stolid portion of the mind a
chance for an exit. Then to the remaining
skeleton apply restoratives. Show it how
to climb the smooth or rugged cliff, and not
say "There is the lesson, learn it!" with
emphasis to every word, leaving the child
with an idea of an impossibility. Remove
the doubt, and explain that only little is re-
quired at first, that large oaks grow from
small acorns, little drops make the ocean,
and seconds of time eternities. Teach the
child "love" in its first lessons; to love home
and its surroundings and everything good.
Hence the necessity of making every home
pleasant and endearing, with its flowers and
pleasant words which are sunshine to the
heart, with music to soften, to modify, and
arouse in the mind a love for the beautiful.
	The feelings of a child shrink from cold
hearts and harsh words, but will cling to a
person whose words are uttered in gentle-
ness; and music will act as magic on the
youthful mind, causing the clouds to flee
and sunshine to appear in their hearts. Then
why not cultivate heaven at home? Gentle
words cost nothing, but harshness has made
many a disconsolate and hopeless heart and
deserted home.
	Build the proper foundation in the youth-
ful mind. Seed sown on good grounf will
take root.
	As the child develops, still let it be taught
love in the school room; make sufficient at-
tractions there by supplying the pre-requi-
sites. Let its dinner be properly arranged
and tastily suited to its appetite. Let the
books be neat, and wisely selected to suit
the classes, without a lack; and the school
room supplied with proper seats and desks,
and all apparatus needful. Above all let the
teacher be one who has at heart the interest
of your child, and whose countenance glows
with intelligence. Let her salary be such
that it will be ample stimulous for her to de-
vote her entire time and thought to the cul-
ture of the charge placed under her care,
that she may have time to make each child
a study and be able to think for her pupils,
to economize their time and set forth their
time and set forth their lessons in a way to
be acquired with the least possible exertion,
by the shortest methods; simplifying and
reducing them to the capacity of each. So
that they are enabled to discover beauties 
as they solve the once mysterious lesson. If
you observe that a lesson is beyond the pre-
sent grasp of a child's mind, never let it
know it is because of a lack of capacity, but
tell it that you have given too long a lesson,
or recommend a change of studies for the
present. Should a feeling of discourage-
ment seize you after constant attempts and
continued exertions, let not the child be
made aware of it. When the feeling of love
is aroused, and the heart is interested, then
application to study is a pleasure, and the
work is half accomplished; the whet-stone
of encouragement should be applied daily.
Let it be seen that you approve of every-
thing that will admit of approval; encour-
agement is what hope feeds on, and if there
is no hope for success, what is there to
prompt one to action?
	Let teachers and guardians give due con-
sideration to these facts; for oftentimes the
most speedy and satisfactory results are ef-
fected by gentle words. And in order to
have your words effective and your teach-
ings beneficial, it is an all important item
to have the love and respect of your stu-
dents. Let teachers and guardians respect
themselves by respecting their callings and
never abuse the confidence and trust that is
placed in them. Treat the feelings of stu-
dents with due respect. You may whittle
the wood, and pound the lead, but do not 
stamp upon the mind and heart of mortals—
these are their treasures. The training of
the mind is the most delicate work allotted
to mankind. Do not then, trust such train-
ing to unskillful hands, any more than you
would trust the doctoring of your eyes to a
butcher. The great final result rests princi-
pally in the beginning, good castles are not
built on poor foundations, how very impor-
tant then, that there should be a proper
commencement.			I'LL TRY.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	He who waits to do a great deal at once
will never do anything.—Dr. Johnson.
	BEECHER says the United States is Eng-
land broke loose and growing in the open
air. 
	A CYNIC says marriage is often a dull
book with a very fine preface: sometimes it
is "half calf," too." When such as he form
part of the binding it is sure to be "half
calf" or "sheep."
	THERE is something very sensible in the
impromptu remark of a young lady: "If
our Maker thought it wrong for Adam to
live single when there was not a woman on
earth, how criminally wrong are the old
bachelors, with the world full of pretty
girls!"
	A NEWSPAPER paragraph states the fact
that a telegraph office for the dispatch of
messages in Turkish and foreign languages,
has now been established at Bethlehem, on
which the Observer remarks:—"The mes-
sage received at Bethlehem in years gone
by, has thrilled the world:—"Glory to God
in the highest, and on earth peace, good
will toward men."
	The following—the truth of which is
vouched for by the San Francisco "Repub-
lican," displays an example of self-sacrific-
ing gallantness worthy of record:—Six
weeks ago seven male Indians and one In-
dian woman started to cross Clear Lake,
near the northern end, in a small boat, which
was capsized three miles from land. They
righted it; but as the lake was rough they
could not bail it out, and while full of water
it would not support more than one person.
The men put the girl in and held on to the
edges of the boat, supporting themselves
by swimming, till exhausted and chilled
through by the cold water, and then drop-
ped off one by one. They showed no thought
of disputing the young woman's exclusive
right to the boat. She was saved by their 
self-sacrifice.
	HERE is the way a Georgia paper puts
it:—"Among the many visitors who came
to our city on Saturday last to sell their
country produce, was a young lady from an
adjoining county who had chickens, eggs
and butter for sale. Her beauty was of tran-
scendent excellence; bright, flashing, intel-
lectual eyes, and face round and rosy, while
her calico dress was plain and neatly made,
fitting beautifully. Her raven hair flowed
in luxurious richness. Well educated she
conversed fluently, and deported herself
with becoming modesty. She wore no false
bustle or purchased complexion; had no
topnot on her head, no false fixings to pre-
sent, but stood in the majestic beauty of
a created intelligence that would not yield
to the despotic dictates of frivolous fash-
ion. It has been a long time since we
gazed on such a sight. The young men
crowded around her wagon with curiosity
in their eyes and admiration in their hearts.
The old men wept for joy that there was
one who had not bowed to Baal. She sold
her country produce, went home, milked
the cows, cooked the supper for ten farm
laborers, and went to church that night
with her sweetheart."
	A GOLDEN LESSON TO TEACHERS.—1. If
you would have no drones in your school,
talk at each recitation to the dullest in your
class, and use all your ingenuity in endeav-
oring to make them comprehend. The
others, then, will be sure to understand.
	2. Make each exercise as attractive as
possible. Think out your methods before-
hand, and illustrate freely.
	3. Cultivate self-control; never be led in-
to confusion. and above all be in earnest.
	4. Be cheerful, and smile often. A teach-
er with a long face casts a gloom over every-
thing, and eventually chills young minds
and closes young hearts.
	5. Use simple language when you explain
lessons. Long words are thrown away in
the school-room.
	6. Thoroughly test each pupil on the les-
son, and do not be afraid of repetition. Re-
view every day, or much time will be lost.
	7. Do not try to teach too much; better
teach a little and teach it well.
	8. Endeavor to make your pupils under-
stand the meaning of what they study.
Probe the matter to the bottom, and get at
the real knowledge of your scholars.
	9. Cultivate the understanding, and do
not appeal directly to the memory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MARK TWAIN ON THE CRUSADE.

	Mark Twain (Mr. S. W. Clemens) the
noted humorist, can write eloquently and
sensibly on serious subjects, as the following
article on the Women's Temperance Move-
ment, and Suffrage, contributed to the Lon-
don Standard, abundantly demonstrates.

	Would you consider the conduct of these
crusaders justifiable. I do—thoroughly
justifiable. They find themselves voiceless
in the making of the laws, and the election
of officers to execute them. Born with
brains, born in the country, educated, hav-
ing large interests at stake, they find their
tongues tied and their hands fettered, while
every ignorant, whiskey-drinking, foreign-
born savage in the land may hold office, help
to make the laws, degrade the dignity of
the former, and break the latter at his own
sweet will. They see their fathers, hus-
bands, and brothers, sit inactive at home,
and allow the scum of the country to assem-
ble at the "primaries," name the candidates
for office from their own vile ranks, and,
unrebuked, elect them. They live in the
midst of a country where there is no end to
the laws, and no beginning to the execution
of them. And when the laws intended to
protect their sons from intemperance, lie
torpid and without sign of life, year after
year, they recognize that there is a matter
that interests them personally—a matter
which comes straight home to them. And
since they are allowed to lift no legal voice
against the outrageous state of things they
suffer under in this regard, I think it is no
wonder that their patience has broken down
at last, and they have tried to persuade
themselves that they are justifiable in break-
ing the law of tresspass, when the laws that
should make the tresspass needless are al-
lowed by the voter to lie dead and inoper-
ative.
	The present Crusade will, doubtless, do
but little work against intemperance that
will be really permanent; but it will do
what is as much, or even more, to the pur-
pose, I think. I think it will suggest to
more than one man that if women could
vote they would vote on the side of moral-
ity, even if they did vote and speak rather
frantically and furiously; and it will also
suggest that when the women once made
up their minds that it was not good to have
the all-powerful "primaries" in the hands
of loafers, thieves, and pernicious little poli-
ticians, they would not sit indolently at
home, as their husbands and brothers do
now, but would hoist their prayer banners,
take the field in force, pray the assembled
political scum back to the holes and slums
where they belong, and set some candidates
fit for human beings to vote for. I dearly
want the women to be raised to the politi-
cal altitude of the negro, the imported sav-
age, and the pardoned thief, and allowed to
vote. It is our last chance, I think. The
women will be voting before long; and then
if a B. F. Butler can still continue to lord it
in Congress; if the highest offices in the
land can still continue to be occupied by
perjurers and robbers; if another Congress,
like the forty-second, consisting of fifteen
honest men and two hundred and ninety-
six of the other kind, can once more be cre-
ated, it will at least be time, I fear, to give
over trying to save the country by human
beings, and appeal to providence. Both the
great parties have failed. I wish we might
have a woman's party now, and see how
that would work. I feel persuaded that, in
extending the suffrage to women, this coun-
try could lose nothing, and must gain a
great deal. For thirty centuries history has
been iterating and reiterating that, in a
moral fight, woman is simply dauntless;
and we all know, even with our eyes shut
upon Congress and our voters, that, from
the day that Adam ate of the apple and told
on Eve, down to the present day, man, in a
moral fight, has pretty uniformly shown
himself to be an arrant coward.


﻿CRITICISING DRESS.

	One of the most enjoyable women we know,
aside from having her person decently cov-
ered, is completely unsophisticated as re-
gards dress or fine manners; and she is quite
as indifferent as regards the same in her
friends. In all the years we have known
her, we never heard her pass a criticism
upon any article of dress. She loves her
friends for themselves, not for their clothes.
The thought of her insures a sense of rest.
She would enjoy a visit with us in a dress
ten years out of date as well as if we had
worn one of the latest mode. She never
makes us uncomfortable by saying, "Why you
wear blue? It is dreadfully unbecoming,”
or “Your dress is altogether too long—your
crinoline is horribly out of shape," or “Why
don’t you wear a corset? it would give you
some shape,” and so on through your entire
wardrobe.	
	We all know no well bred person passes
unfavorable comments upon the clothing of
guests. But it is something well meaning
people often perpetrate unconsciously, and
the thoughtless comment makes a sensitive,
untried girl, or woman either, miserable
for the entire day. Many a woman wears
dresses, the wearing of which constitutes
her a martyr, so far as her taste and fancy
are concerned. But by some unfavorable
circumstances, she can do no better for the
time being. And then, for some one to ex-
claim, “Oh, dear! I thought you threw that
dress away long ago.”—Rural New York-
er.


Kind words are the bright flowers of
earth’s existence; use them, and especially
around the fireside circle. They are jewels
beyond price, and powerful to heal the
wounded heart and make the weighed-
down spirit glad.


A WORD FOR THE WOMEN.
	Women are often extravagant. The fact
cannot be denied. But that they are more
so than men is by no means true. As a rule
every woman wishes to live within her hus-
band’s income, and in nine families out of
ten all the economizing done at all is done
by the wife. This constant iteration of the
charge against women, however, has secured
a kind of passive acceptance for the theory,
and nothing is more common now than for
young men with salaries of two or three
thousand dollars a year to lament their ina-
bility to marry, because women are so ex-
travagant. One of these has recently told
the public through the newspapers how it
takes all his income of two thousand dollars
to support him as a single man, and after
looking over the bill of items and finding
that it takes fifty-two dollars worth of per-
fumery every year to keep him sweet, we
quite agree with him in thinking that he
should not marry. A woman weak enough
to wed such a youth would probably give
him trouble even with a much larger in-
come than his to draw upon. The trouble is
men want to live in a more costly style than
their incomes will allow. They hire houses
they cannot afford, and buy furniture be-


yond their means, and "put on style" gen-
erally which they cannot maintain. Their
wives knowing less than they of the purse
depths at command, accept the husband's
estimate of their ability to live, and they
dress as their lords clearly wish them to do.
And so the crash comes, and "poor Charley"
is commiserated, while his little wife's
shoulders are saddled with the blame.—
"Hearth and Home.


“I was very near selling my boots the
other day,” said John, to a friend.—“How
so?”—“Well, I had them half-soled.”


DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah. 
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.
												
				H. DINWOODEY

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			     storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
			Where he is prepared to do a
     WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.
														
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
												
				CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-			$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 		-	-	-	-	-			  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12X16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-			  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-		48	00
Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1874.			NO. 4.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A NEW submarine cable for communica-
tion between England and America, is com-
pleted. The Great Eastern is to commence
laying it during this month.
	THE POPE in early youth joined the Free
Masons. Charges were preferred against
him in 1865 which he declined meeting and,
recently, he was expelled from the Order
of the Grand Lodge of Italy. Victor Emanu-
el, as grand master of the Orient of Italy
signed the order of expulsion.
	FELONS ARE of so common occurrence
that we deem the following clipping wor-
thy of notice. “A woman in Lapeer, Mich.,
took her husband’s knife a few days ago to
open a felon; shortly after her husband used
the knife to extract a sliver from his hand,
and inoculated himself with the virus of
the felon; his hand began to swell, and in
four hours he was a raving maniac, and in
less than forty-eight hours he died.”
	MR. BRISTOW, the new Secretary of the
Treasury, commenced his duties with a dili-
gence and thoroughness that at once created
a prestige in his favor.  And now it is said
of him that he not only positively refuses
all presents but also declines to resort to the
old ruse of allowing his wife to accept them.
This we think is a noble course if consis-
tently pursued, but will not be very likely
to prove contagious at the seat of Govern-
ment.


AN EASY, GOOD-NATURED FELLOW.

	I have in my mind's eye one who prides
himself upon the above appellation, and
who makes it a point to favor every one for
the sole purpose of impressing his good-na-
ture. At different periods of his life he
has engaged in almost every avocation that
can be mentioned, and each time has made
a signal failure simply because he was so
"easy."
	Experience having taught him that his
reputation for amiability has secured him
against public censure, his reverses have
had no serious effect upon him, but his wife,
poor woman, has been the martyr.
	In the frequent intervals of idleness that
were the natural results of changes of busi-
ness, she struggled nobly, endeavoring to
make herself equal to the occasion by sup-
porting the family, sometimes by sewing,
sometimes by teaching, and occasionally by
canvassing for a new publication. These
efforts on her part were accepted by her
husband as a matter of course, and if the
neighbors indulged in an occasional sneer
at the expense of Jones, it was always modi-
fied by the apology:
	"Oh, well, Jones is such an easy, good-
natured fellow, he can't get along."
	Finally, after years of patient, unremit-
ting labor, with her past struggles folded
away in her memory and the future black
and cheerless before her, with the truth
forced upon her that she could not love the
man she had ceased to respect, she quietly
took her children and sought the paternal
roof.
	Then what a cry went up! What a howl
of persecution followed her! "If there was


any difference between them it must have
been her fault." So the women in the com-
munity said, for Jones was always so easy
and good-natured.
	And to-day, after the lapse of years, if
you pass through the village where she
wrought day and night for his support, you
will find Jones sustained by the sympathy
of his female friends. If the circumstances
of Mrs. Jones' departure is refered to, you
will hear, as other strangers have heard be-
fore you, that "it could not have been his
fault; he was too good-natured;" that al-
though his wife had seemed good enough,
she must have had a furious temper, and
was, they had no doubt, entirely to blame.


THE SEX.
	MRS. Harriet A. Tracy is President of
the Temperance Union of Langsing, Michi-
gan.
	DR. Lenora Foster, of Otsego, was one of
the delegates to the American Medical As-
sociation in session at Detroit.
	MRS. Hill, sister of Sir Noel Paton, has
furnished the design for a statue that is to
be erected in honor of Dr. Livingstone.
	MISS Sarah McGoldrick of Detroit, Mich.,
has been confirmed by the Board of Educa-
tion as Assistant Secretary of that body.
	MRS. Martha Walker Cook, a sister of the
late Hon. Robert Walker, is translating the
works of Krasinski, the great Polish poet.
	MRS. Sarah Kidder, of Livermore, Me.,
will be one hundred and three years old in
October next, and is probably the oldest per-
son in the State.
	MRS. Dr Baldwin, a missionary on the
Sandwich Islands for 44 years, having gone
thither in 1830, died there recently, 68 years
of age.
	THE Polish Princess Czartoryska has
make over the whole of her immense for-
tune and vast landed possessions to a Ro-
man Catholic convent at Posen.
	MRS. Lidia Blankinship, of Marion Mass.,
died on Monday, at the extreme age of one
hundred years, one month and eleven days.
On her hundredth birthday she was in good
health and attended church.
	MRS. C. F. Corbin, of Evanstown, Ill., re-
cently read a paper on Enlightened Mother-
hood. Of all the children born in Christen-
dom, only one half, she said, reach the age
of six years.
	MISS Sophia Flora Heilborn, well known
to all European readers as an accomplished
pianist and musician, purposes visiting this
country with her family, and will arrive
here early in July.
	QUEEN Victoria lately refused to receive
at a “drawing room” a lady who, having
been divorced from her first husband, still
living, has married again; and this though
her introducer was a duchess.
	MISS Clara Louise Kellog, Miss Adelade
Phillips, and the Temple Quartette, of Bos-
ton, furnished the musical part of the exer-
cises when Mr. Georgo William Curtis de-
livered his memorial oration on Senator Sum-
ner before the State authorities of Massa-
chusetts.
	THE wife of the Rev. Henry W. Hale has
taken with her husband the entire course in
the Baptist Theological Seminary at New-
ton, Mass. and received the usual degree—
the first ever conferred on a woman by that
institution. Both are under appointment as
missionaries.
	MISS Mary E. Woodman, formerly of East
Concord, about a year since went to Liver-
pool with an uncle who is a sea captain, and
from thence she sailed, without friends or
acquaintances, to Oporto, Portugal, where
she opened a select school and gave instruc-
tion in English, French and music. Her
school is now very successful, and is patron-
ized by some of the first families in Oporto.
Her success shows what a brave young girl
can do when she goes to work in earnest.
	MRS. Lizzie Waters, wife of Dr. Waters
of Terre Haute, Ind., is said to be an artist
of unusual talent and promise. For the
past two years she has neglected the easel,
and devoted her time and attention mainly
to the languages. She has, however, par-
tially completed a piece entitled “The Rif-
ted Rock.” for a society in New York, the
contract price of which is $500. It gives
promise of rare beauty, and is entirely or-
riginal.
	A LIFE-LIKE glimpse of the domestic life
of Hawthorne and his wife, is given in “Har-
per’s Magazine,” which says that after the po-
et’s removal from the Salem custom house,
and he didn’t see exactly where future din-
ners were to come from, his wife wrote to
a friend. She said that she met his anxious
face and words by telling him that she had
saved from his earnings enough to keep
them in bread and rice for a few weeks, and
was so glad that he could now write his ro-
mance, and would have a fire kindled im-
mediately in the study. Then she asked
her friend what she could do to keep up the
household supplies when the bread and rice
were gone. This friend, her most affection-
ate counselor through life, knowing Mrs.
Hawthorne’s taste and skill in art,suggested
that she could make lamp-shades in lovely
forms, decorated with figures from Flaxman,
in her beautiful penciling. She employed
herself constantly with this work until
Hawthorne’s first pecuniarily successful
book was published, the “Scarlet Letter.”
the estimate of Mrs. Hawthorne’s mental
powers was very high by those who knew
her best. The one to whom the Easy Chair
is so much indebted for the judgement of
the truest intimacy says that the wife was
not, as has been said, on a different intel-
lectual plane from the husband, although
their mental idiosyncracies were singularly
contrasted, making the equal union only the
more beautiful.


﻿CRUELTY to dumb animals is one of the
distinguishing vices of the basest of the peo-
ple. Wherever it is found, it is a certain
mark of ignorance and meanness; an intrin-
sic mark, which all the external advantages
of wealth, splendor and nobitity cannot ob-
literate.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


LINES.

ADDRESSED TO THE LADIES OF THE SPRINGVILLE
			RETRENCHMENT SOCIETY.

	My sisters, dear, yours is a glorious task;
	What more sublime employ could angels ask,
	Than thus to strive to stem the wild excess,
	Which ever leads to shame and wretchedness?
	To use your potent gifts in virtue’s cause,
	The vile deceits of gilded vice disclose,
	That all may shun the yawning gulf that lies
	Conceal’d from thoughtless, unsuspecting eyes:
	To check the mad extravagance and pride
	That sweeps the earth— a devastating tide.
	To help those liable to be decoyed
	And teach them shame’s dread vortex to avoid;
	By precepts, and example’s mightier voice,
	Teach frail humanity a nobler choice,
	To say, to captives bound by vice’s chain,
	“Come! we will help you freedom to regain:
	Come! leave the dark and crooked ways of sin,
	And try, in virtue’s cause a crown to win:
	Forsake the drunkard’s soul-destroying drink,
	Arise from ignorance! reflect and think;
	Come! let the errors of the past suffice,
	And now to wisdom’s treasures lift your eyes;
	Come! father, brother, husband, sister, friend,
	Let us the hill of endless fame ascend;
	Come! let us walk in glory’s shining way,
	Come! let us travel to the realms of day."
	Such gentle preachers sure will be received,
	A purer mission, scarce can be conceived.
	Such noble use of soft persuasive speech
	Will find few hearts so hard it may not reach.
	While blessing others in your grand employ,
	Yourselves will reap a never ending joy;
	And holy beings in the realms above,
	Will look with rapture on your works of love.
	God bless, and aid you in your great design,
	Till you among the Queens’ of Heaven shall shine.
MARCH 14TH, 1874.						W. C.


R. S. REPORTS.

			BEAVER CITY, July 1st, 1874.
EDITOR  WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Young Ladies Association was organ-
ized December 13th, 1873, with Mrs. Har-
riet E. Fotheringham for President; Mrs.
Harriet E. Shepherd, Mrs. Christena Levi,
Mrs. Eunice Greenwood, Miss Agnes Lebar-
ren (now Mrs. Hutchings), Miss Aurelia
Walker, Miss Mary A. Greenwood for Coun-
selors, and Miss Ida T. Hunt, Secretary.
Our meetings are pretty well attended and
those who attend feel well in the Work.
About thirty of us met on Saturday morn-
ing, June 13th, and spent the time, besides
partaking of a picnic dinner, in sewing car-
pet-rags until three o'clock, when we com-
menced our meeting, according to adjourn-
ment. Opened by singing, and prayer by
Sister Gillies, and singing. The minutes
of the last meeting were read and accepted.
The Secretary, Miss Ida F. Hunt, having
been called to perform other important du-
ties, could not attend and Miss Eliza E.
Parkinson was elected to act in her stead.
Selections from the EXPONENT, and Wo-
man's Journal were read by Miss Alice Ty-
ler, Miss I. Farnsworth and Miss Ellen Lee.
Interesting and appropriate remarks were
made by Miss Melissa White, Miss Mary A.
Greenwood, Miss Emeline Adair, Mrs. Houd,
Mrs. Gillies, Mrs. Fotheringham, Miss Ellen
Lee and Miss Mary Lumblad. The chief
subjects chosen for reading and discourse
were education, dress, reformation and
prayer. Mary Crosby was elected a mem-
ber. Meeting adjourned until June 27th,
1874. Closed with singing and benediction
by Mrs. Houd.
		HARRIET E. FOTHERINGHAM,
							President.
	ELIZA E. PARKENSON, Secretary.
			CENTREVILLE, July 13, 1874.
	The Relief Society of this place held its
fifth annual meeting June 24th. Meeting
opened with singing and prayer. The min-
utes of the previous meeting were read, al-
so the Financial reports of the past year.
President Mrs. Margaret H. Randall advised
the sisters to so live  that they might know
the truth for themselves and not let their
faith be the reflection of other people's—To
be a help to their husbands and to carry
their own share of life's burdens as well as
enjoy a portion of life's comforts—Gave
some good advice upon dress, the selecting
and making up of such material as would
be becoming to the wearer and her station
in life—Spoke of the importance of sustain-
ing ourselves as far as possible and gave
some good suggestions upon the subject of 
health. Counselor Mrs. Rebecca Porter ad-
vised the sisters to keep in the line of duty
and to improve their minds by reading,
studying and thinking, and to bear in mind
that each must earn her own salvation for a
husband, friend or neighbor cannot perform
her spiritual work. Several of the sisters
bore testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
The few poor in this place have been helped
to what they most needed. The Society
have paid one installment of twenty-five
dollars on the organ for our meeting house,
and have bought some furniture for our
hall. The sisters have donated twenty-five
dollars to the P. E. Fund.
	The members are united in their efforts
to do good and to make a good school of
the Society where we may improve intel-
lectually as well as spiritually. We ought
never to be satisfied with any attainment
which we may have but have a desire to
progress and thankfully improve the oppor-
tunity we have through the Relief Society
for self improvement. The people, here
have organized into a United Order, so far
things have gone on smoothly and satisfac-
tory to all.
		MARIETTA ADAMS, Secretary.


VISIT TO TOOELE AND PINE
			KANYON.

	On Wednesday, the 17th of last month,
the following named sisters, M. I. Horne,
E. Howard, Z. D. Young, and E. R. Snow
went by carriage, (which with team, was
kindly furnished by Bro. W. Howard) to
Tooele City. We were graciously received
and cordially welcomed by Mrs. Miklejohn,
Pres. of the Relief Society in that place,
and by her husband.
	Thursday at 10, we attended Society
meeting in the commodious Meeting House,
with a large assembly of sisters, and a few
prominent brethren. At 2, we again met,
and, after other services, organized a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association, com-
posed of between sixty and seventy mem-
bers. In the evening as many of those
young ladies as could be seated met with
us at the residence of brother Miklejohn,
and we had a very interesting time giving
them words of counsel, encouragement and
instruction. The next morning, brother
Miklejohn remarked that it was the most
beautiful sight he had ever seen.
	The next forenoon we met with a large
congregation in the Meeting House: when
near the close of the service, brother James
Dunn came to the stand, and read a beauti-
ful poem, written by himself, entitled
"Welcome to Sister Snow and Company."—
The following extract shows that Br. Dunn
is no unpracticed writer:
	"Sisters in Christ, we bid you welcome here;
	     Our homes are brighter for your pleasant "call:"
	Our hearts are warmer—and the silent tear
	     Of holy friendship, at your presence falls.
	Your suasion fires us, as with hearts of steal,
	     To stand for God, and battle for the right:
	Your words are simple, but they make us feel
	     To press on heav'nward with a giant's might.
				*	*	*	*	*
	When men like Brigham, point, and lead the way,
	     And wives like you, join in the noble cause;
	No powers of darkness can our progress stay.
	     Altho' they fill the world with hellish laws."
	The entire poem is worthy of publication,
but the other portion being highly compli-
mentary to ourselves, are withheld, lest we
should be suspected of vanity.
	In the afternoon, accompanied by several
of the brethren and sisters of Tooele, we
rode to pine Kanyon—dined with Br. and
Sr. Martin—attended Relief Society meet-
ing, Sr. Steele presiding—organized a Young
Ladies' Association—returned to Tooele and
spent an interesting evening at Br. Mikle-
john's, with the officers of the R. Society,
and as many others as could be accommo-
dated.
	In all these meetings, the spirit of the
Lord was copiously poured out and we had
a refreshing time. The Tooele Choir was
punctually in attendance when we met in
the Meeting House, and added much to the
interest and enjoyment of those occasions.
One excellent and very noticeable feature
in the sweet music of this Choir, is the plain
and distinct pronunciation of the words,
which adds intelligence to sound.
	We were highly pleased with the spirit
manifested by our sisters wherever we went
—not only in their affectionate reception of
us but, what is of the greatest importance,
we found many of them truly alive to the
interests of the Kingdom of God. Our vis-
it with them will long be retained in our
memories, as one of the green spots in thejourney of life.
				ONE OF THE PARTY.
	S. L. CITY, July 1, 1873.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	CHARLESTON, S.C., is to have ice of home
manufacture at $1 a hundred weight this 
summer.	
	A LOT, containing 2,210 square feet, in 
the midst of the business part of London, 
was recently sold for over $160,000 or $72. 
50, gold, per square foot.	
	A CURIOUS and beautiful effect was pro-
duced by an ice-making machine in Phila- 
delplia. It was a cake of manufactured 
ice, in the center of which, completely in-
closed in the translucent material, was a 
bouquet of fresh flowers. Every leaf and 
flower was perfectly visible, while the
brilliancy of the colors was enhanced by the
refraction through the ice.
	IT is stated that the effect of heat and
cold, in expanding and contracting the iron
of the dome of the national Capitol, is such 
that the collossal statue, surmounting it in- 
clines four and a half inches to the west in
the forenoon, and the same distance to the
east in the afternoon. This fact has been
ascertained by fixing a plumb line to the
statue and dropping it to the rotunda be-
low.	
	ST. Augustine, Florida, is the oldest Eu- 
ropean settlement in the United States. It
was founded by the Spaniards, and a large
portion of the inhabitants are of Spanish
descent. With its convents, ruined gate-
ways, quaint cathedral, and houses of Span-
ish build, their balconies overshadowing the
narrow streets, it still resembles some Old
World towns. The remains of the fort of
St. Mark’s, overlooking the sea, crumbling,
and verdant with vegetation, have much 
the appearance of the ruined castles of the
middle ages.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
			PRAYER.

	The importance of prayer is something
that we should study more than we do, for
I do not think any of us fully realize how
necessary prayer is to our happiness. With-
out it we cannot become true Saints in
thought,  word and deed. We must have
the Spirit of God continually with us in or-
der to live our religion faithfully, and that
Spirit can only be obtained and retained
through earnest prayer.
	We are taught that we must be tried even
as gold seven times purified. This seems as
though we were to be pretty severely tried,
yet through constant prayer to our Heavenly
Father we will obtain strength from Him
so that we will be enabled to pass through
every ordeal so easily that we will scarcely
realize that we are being tried. Then, Oh!
how careful we should be to humble our-
selves daily before the Lord to seek His
strength, comfort and guidance. There is
no true happiness in taking any other course;
it is true, we may have fleeting pleasures
that will vanish away but through prayer
and humility, we may have constant peace,
joy and contentment—three of the greatest
boons that were ever given to mortal beings.
I often feel that it would be as impossible
for me to be a saint without prayer as it
would for our natural bodies to exist without
food. We have heard it said that the step-
ping stone to apostacy is the neglect of
prayer, and I truly believe this to be so, for
the mind becomes darkened and, conse-
quently the Evil  One has a good chance to
slip in and introduce doubt and false doc-
trines when, if we were living in the line
of our duty, we would instantly repel the
first advance of the adversary directed
against our true peace. Finding fault with
those in authority is generally the starting
point of these evils, so that if we ever have
this feeling we may know to what it will
lead us if not checked. I would exhort my
young sisters, while in the beginning of life
to attend strictly to their prayers and they
will always have wisdom to know the right
from the wrong and have power given them
to choose the right under all circumstances
that they may be instruments in the hands
of God in helping to roll forth this great and
glorious latter-day work.			M. A. F.


[For the Exponent.]
MOTHERS AND INFANTS AT HOME.

	All mothers are aware that as soon as a
child begins to understand its surroundings,
its mind stretches forth after further infor-
mation. Even before it can either walk or
talk its little hands are put forth to grasp
and examine whatever may come within its
reach. Soon it comes to mother with num-
berless questions on the most unaccountable
subjects and believes that what she says
must be true and puts most implicit faith
in her words. I have often been puzzled to
answer these little questions, for I think it
is very important that we answer them cor-
rectly,as impressions made in childhood are
never effaced. How many mothers fail to
appreciate this loving confidence reposed in
them by their little ones.
	It was distressing to me a short time
since to see the look of wondering doubt de-
picted on the countenance of a little girl at a
most unlikely answer given her by her, not
careless but thoughtless mother, and which
called forth these reflections. How neces-
sary that we should take every opportunity
for adding to our stock of information in
every possible way that we may be ready


to gratify their desire for knowledge and
thus develop within them the germs of
thought and observation, loosing no oppor-
tunity of implanting within them an earnest
faith in God and in his over-ruling provi-
dences.
	I have heard some of my sisters say "I
have no time to read, my family duties occu-
py all my time and attention." I realize that
mothers have plenty, and often too much
work to do but as I heard a beloved sister say
not long since "My spirit needs feeding as
well as my body." After a long, busy day
when all the little ones are peacefully as-
leep I generally sit down and read for half an
hour from choice books or papers which re-
freshes me more than sleep besides furnish-
ing me with food for thought the next day.
I like the EXPONENT for this, its articles are
short and pithy, much in little and to the 
point.
	Being at a neighbor's the other day I
noticed her baby boy try to draw out his
mother's chair and then went to the table,
reached the paper and brought it to her.
She said to me, by way of explanation, "He
wants me to take him." "Sister" I said,
"you are not only learning yourself, by tak-
ing every opportunity to read good read-
ing, but you are instilling into his very na-
ture a love for it, creating an appetite which
will grow with him, and a taste for reading
good books is by no means to be despised for
when the head and  heart is filled with
good there is less room for evil."
						ANNE NIOBE.


ENGAGING MANNERS.—There are a thousand
pretty engaging little ways which every
person may put on without running the
risk of being deemed affected or foppish.
The sweet smile, the cordial bow, the ear-
nest movemet in addressing a friend, the
inquiring glance, the graceful attention
which is so captivating when united with
self-possession—these will insure us the
regards of even a churl. Above all there
is a certain softness of manner which should
be cultivated, and which in either man or
woman, adds a charm that almost entirely
compensates for lack of beauty, and inesti-
mably enhances the latter if it does exist.


MATRIMONIAL INCOMPATIBILITIES.—
A couple are no sooner married than they
find that differences of opinion and mutual
jars ensue, and all is not gold that glistened;
and then one or both straightway imagine
that there is no remedy but in ruthlessly
breaking the solemn, sacred tie that binds
them. A vague, restless feeling seizes up-
on one or both, producing discontent, en-
gendering a certain thought of present bon-
dage which exists mostly in fancy, and cre-
ating a feverish desire for other associations
and spheres which are supposed to be
more fitted and providentially designed for
the mind and heart. No escape, it is said,
but in cutting the knot. It is a delusion.
The marriage relation, in all its history,
was never expected, perhaps, to be entirely
free from misunderstandings and discords.
Foolish to think that the whole mutual life
can flow on, like the earlier stream, with-
out a ripple or eddy. Home is a school
wherein husband and wife are to get rid of
their angularities, harmonize their peculiar
characteristics, and more and more become
one in thought, sympathy and life. The
true blessedness of wedded souls is not in-
sured by a simple exchange of plighted faith.
It comes through and after many a self-de-
nial, many a sacrifice of the will, many a
scourging of the resentment, anger, pride,
vanity and passion of the heart.


﻿FLOWERS.
	BOOKS, like friends, should be well used,
not abused.
	IT is not what we make, but what we save,
that makes us rich.
	IT is conferring a kindness to deny at once 
a favor which you intend to refuse.
	THE weakness of the heart is sometimes
stronger than its strength.
	IF praying does not cause us to leave off
sinning, sinning will soon make us leave off
praying.
	IT is only by labor that thought can be
made healthy, and only by thought that la-
bor can be made happy.
	THE beloved of the Almighty are the rich
who have the humility of the poor, and the
poor who have the magnanimity of the rich.
—“Saadi.”
	AN ass laden with salt was crossing a
brook. The water diluted the salt, and
lightened the burden. He communicated
his discovery to a brother donkey, laden
with wool. The latter tried the same experi-
ment, and found his load double its weight.
	IN these lives of ours, tender little acts
do more to bind hearts together than great
deeds or heroic words, since the first are
like the dear daily bread that none can live
without, the latter but occasional feasts—
beautiful and memorable but not possible to
all.
	DO the very best you can and then take
things as they come. If a man strives with
his best knowledge, energy and untiring la-
bor to accomplish a cortain object, working
with skill and patience, he is a success,
whether the scheme fails or succeeds, and
he ought to reconcile himself to failure if
it is inevitable. If his labors have been
of brain and hand, he is better fitted to suc-
ceed in other undertakings.
	IN all grades of human intelligence and
culture there are three cycles of develop-
ment—the physical, the intellectual, the
spiritual. That which is rational in man is
higher than the animal, and that which is
spiritual higher than the rational. To de-
velop the animal is to develop the lowest
nature—to develop the intellectual is to de-
velop the intermediate nature—to develop
the spiritual is to develop the highest nature
of man—that which makes him God-like,
that which reaches forth to eternity, with
no limit to its growing capacity.


THE PRESENT CENTUTY.—In 1807, Fulton
took out the first patent for the invention of
the steamboat.
	The first steamboats which made regular
trips across the Atlantic Ocean were the Sir-
ius and the Great Western in 1838.
	In 1813, the streets of London were for
the first time lighted with gas.
	About the year 1832, the first railroad in
the United States was completed.
	In 1840 the first experiments in photo-
graphy were made by Daguerre.
	The anthracite coal business may be said
to have begun in 1820.
	In 1836 the first patent for the invention
of matches was granted. 
	In 1844 the first telegram was sent.
	The first successful trial of a reaper took
place in 1833.		
In 1845 Elias Howe, obtained a patent for
his first sewing machine. 
	THE EMPRESS of Germany is said to
dress very plainly.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
       CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, July 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
			   LOCAL.
	Father Kington, who joined the church
in England, in the early part of that mis-
sion, died at Wellsville on the 1st.......Mr.
Paul A. Schuttler, City Treasurer, was struck
with paralysis in the right side, since then
he has partially recovered......Elder H. H.
Cluff and wife have recently returned from a
nearly five years mission to the Sandwich 
Islands......The firemen are to have a grand
excursion to Ogden on the 16th.....Soda
Springs, Idaho, is becoming quite a summer
resort....The Military post at Beaver has
been named Fort Cameron in honor of Cel.
Jas. Cameron who was killed in battle, July
21, '61......A P. O. money-order clerk, in
this City, has disappeared since he was
charged with imbezzling four hundred
dollars; though it is said that he "covered
in" the amount.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	The Mammoth, it is rumored, has been
seen alive by a Russian convict: these huge
animals, it is believed, have become extinct
although the bodies of many are still found
in the vast, frozen regions of eastern Sibe-
ria........Silk worms fed with certain propor-
tions of indigo mixed, just before feeding
with the mulberry leaves, are said to have
spun blue cocoons, and when "Bignonia
ched" was used red cocoons were obtained
.....An eminent French physcian, says he
never knew a case of Hydrophobia to fail of
recovery where the patient was repeatedly
treated with vapor baths, varying in heat
from 57 to 63° centigrade.....A national
convention of chemists to be held Aug. 1,
1874, is proposed as a centennial celebration,
1774 being a memorable year for research
and discovery in chemistry.
			GENERAL.
	The Primate of Brazil is dead.....Constan-
tinople has been shaken by an earthquake
.......A cooper named Cullman, on the 13th,
attempted to assassinate Prince Bismarck
who escaped, the ball only grazing his wrist
.....The war in Spain is unabated......A vi-
olent thunder storm in London on the 11th,
resulted in several fatal accidents......A res-
ervoir at Middlefield, Mass., covering nearly
one hundred acres, broke away flooding the
country before it. No loss of life is repor-
ted.....The question as to whether a brewer
is eligible to the office of an elder in the free 
church of Scotland has been raised.....Ten
counties in Minnesota and Iowa are devas-
tated by the grasshoppers......The Medical
Faculty in New York have held a meeting
to consider the best method of treating Hy-
drophobia, now so prevalent there.....Dr.
Julius Eckman, the pioneer Jewish Rabbi
in California, died in San Francisco on the
5th......The tailoreses of New York are
organizing a protective union......Ice is
bought for $1,50 a ton in Maine, and sold
for $29 in New York......The Ohio papers
are dicusssing the new State constitution,
which is to be voted by the people, next
August.......A lady student takes the high-
est honors at the Indiana State University
this year....A woman advertises in a Min-
esota paper that she will tell in her lectures,
what makes Mormonism so attractive to the
men......There were very destructive floods,
last month, in the Rio Grande valley, sev-
eral towns washed away and large tracts of
cultivated land inundated......Miss Francis
E. Willard was defeated in the Illinois Re-
publican Convention as a candidate for State
Superintendent of Public Instruction......
The General Assembly of The Established
Church of Scotland have unanimously given
the right of suffrage to all female commu-
nicants.
			LITERARY.
	Dr. Livingstone's son has given up a prom-
ising career in Egypt for the purpose of ed-
iting the correspondence and other literary
materials left by his father.....Blanchard
Jerrold is writing a “Life of Napoleon III”
from materials supplied by the Empress Eu-
genie......In Paris, painting is said to pay
better than writing......The Emperor of
China has commanded a selection of Chinese
poetry from the earliest ages, to be formed.
The Emperor’s library contains over 400,
000 volumes......“Othello” has been pub-
lished in the Hebrew language at Vienna
......Ralph Waldo Emerson, the author, is in
his seventy-second year.
			PERSONAL.
	C. F. Conant of New Hampshire has ac-
cepted the office of Asst. Secretary of the
Treasury.....Chief-Justice Waite will spend
the summer at St. Albans, Vt.......Marshal
Concha, of the Republican army in Spain
was killed in a late battle with the Carlists
......The Pope is reported to be growing
weaker daily......John Mitchell, the noted
Irish exile sailed for Ireland on the 11th
inst. He expects to become a candidate
for Parliament.....Agnes Strickland, an
historical writer, died on the 13th, aged
68......Rev. H. W. Beecher asks for an in-
vestigation and Theodore Tilton is willing
to help the matter along.


POSITION AND DUTIES.

	The Latter-day Saint women of Utah occupy
a more important position than is occupied by
any other women on the earth. Associated, as
they are, with apostles and prophets inspired
by the living God—with them sharing in the
gifts and powers of the holy Priesthood by
which, through the merits of our Great Re-
deemer, we have access to, and hold commu-
nion with the Father of our spirits—participa-
ting in those sacred ordinances, without which,
we could never be prepared to dwell in the pres-
ence of the Holy Ones. Who can fully appre-
ciate our blessings; and who is capable of real-
izing the weight of the responsibilities resting
upon us? Where much is given, much is re-
quired.
	“The time, the set time” has come, and the
kingdom of God is now being established. In
this great Work, woman has much to do—not
only in giving birth to, and training those who
shall be the mothers of future generations, the
“polished stones” in Zion, prophetesses and
holy women—those who shall be the future
apostles, prophets, patriarchs and rulers of na-
tions, but she also has much to do in the intri-
cate labors consequent on the introduction and


establishment of the higher and purer form of
government—eradicating the traditions, preju-
dices, prepossessions, false habits and practices
which have gained possession of the hearts of
the people during the long absence of the ful-
ness of the Gospel with its Priesthood, powers
and blessings. She has much to do in purify-
ing, refining and elevating society; for, in all
countries and among all nations, female char-
acter is the index to, or exponent of society at
large.
	It is admitted by many intelligent, observing
people that woman’s influence is paramount to
that of man’s in modeling and in giving shade
and tone to national character. “Show me the
women of a nation, and I will describe the
character of that nation,” has been pertinently
remarked, with how much consistency we leave
others to judge.
	With the Saints the interests of man and
woman are one in every sense of the word, and
this mutual interest is productive of mutual
effort; and in many directions, a combination
of labors.
	Here, outside the boundary of her domestic
routine, woman has many sacred, important
duties to perform, and a holy, purifying influ-
ence to wield—an influence which, although
imperceptibly exercised, is potent in its effects.
How necessary, then, that the Latter-day Saint
women—being called to act in a wider sphere,
and with higher and more responsible duties
devolving upon them, than all others—should
be well informed on all subjects affecting the
interests of humanity—should posses all the ex-
pansion of mind that can be acquired and the
attainment of all useful intelligence and true
knowledge. They should not only be prepared
to ornament society but also to accomplish an
important part in elevating it to a higher stan-
dard than is elsewhere known on earth.
							E. R. S.


﻿THE PEOPLE’S TICKET.

	A meeting composed of prominent citizens,
Mayor Wells presiding, was held at the City
Hall, on the 10th, to nominate candidates for
the territorial and local officers to be elected on
the f[-]rst Monday in August next. The merits
of the different persons nominated were freely
canvassed. The discussion resulted in the fol-
lowing candidates being accepted for the "Peo-
ple's Ticket:"
	For Delegate to Congress, George Q. Cannon;
Commissioners to locate University lands, John
Rowberry, John Van Cott, Lewis S. Hills,
Representatives to the Legislative Assembly,
Orson Pratt, John Taylor, A. P. Rockwood,
Thos. Taylor, Albert Carrington, John Sharp;
Probate Judge, Elias Smith; Selectman, Reu-
ben Miller; Sheriff, Salt Lake County, Stephen
W, Taylor; County Surveyor, Salt Lake Coun-
ty, Abr'm F. Doremus; Superintendent of Com-
mon Schools, for Salt Lake County, Mary E.
Cook; Precinct officers, First Precinct, Salt
Lake City, Adam Speirs, J. P., George Hilton;
Constable; Second Precinct,E. W. East, J. P.,
W. S. Burton, Constable; Third Precinct, Jeter
Clinton, J. P., Milando Pratt, Constable;
Fourth Precinct, A. C. Pyper, J. P., B. Y.
Hampton, Constable; Fifth Precinct, Jacob
Gibson J. P., Wm. Clark, Constable.
	Since the above nominations were made Mr.
J. Clinton has resigned and Mr. A. H. Raleigh’s
name substituted by the People's Territorial
Central Committee which has been organized
as follows: John Sharp, chairman, D. O. Cal-
der, John R. Winder, J. P. Freeze, John T.
Caine, Feramorz Little, J. M. Benedict, E. F. 
Sheets, A. M. Cannon, George Crismon, mem-


bers. A M. Musser, corresponding secretary
and Theodore McKean, secretary.
	These names are now before the people for
the acceptance or rejection of the majority.
We shall support this ticket and we commend
it to the lady voters of this territory.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LAKE SIDE EXCURSION.

	There will be an excursion to Lake Side on
the twenty-eighth inst. The Retrenchment
Associations and Relief Societies are invited to
attend; they can secure tickets for the round
trip for one dollar each. This will no doubt be
an enjoyable time, as there will be music, danc-
ing, and preparations for bathing in the Lake,
with an abundance of shade, and plenty of
pure cold water.
		Committee of Arrangements:
						MRS. W. EAST,
						MRS. E. DAVIS.
	We thank the sisters for a complimentary,
and sincerely hope they will have a time of
pleasant enjoyment.


﻿RECEPTION.

	The ladies of the 14th Ward Relief Society
intend giving a Reception this evening in hon-
or of our delegate to Congress, the Hon. George
Q. Cannon. We expect a report of the pro-
ceedings will appear in our next issue.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon arrived home, from
Washington, on the 1st inst. Several promi-
nent citizens went by special train to Ogden to
quietly welcome our honored Territorial Dele-
gate.
	The “FOURTH” was celebrated in the Settle-
-ments generally by appropriate ceremonies. In
this city it was the quietest one known for
years but none the less enjoyable. Excursions
seemed to be the favorite means of recreation.
	A TEMPORARY guard-house has been estab-
lished in the city, by the officer in command at
Camp Douglass. It is situated on first South
street. A provost guard, consisting of one com-
missioned officer and several soldiers are to be
stationed there night and day to look after dis-
orderly soldiers.
	MR. GEORGE B. Taylor the Supreme Com-
mander of the Independent Champion of the
Red Cross in the United States, delivered a lec-
ture on the “Horrors of the Liquor Traffic" at
the Old Tabernacle, on the 12th. The lecturer
ably treated his subject and was listened to with
good attention.
	A FIERCE thunder and rain storm occurred
about the 6th inst. in this locality. Houses in
this City, at West Jordan and Bountiful were
struck with lightning, frightening the inmates
and injuring the buildings. At West Jordan
two children, in the house that was struck, were
killed, and in the vicinity two horses and a cow
were also killed.
	A MEETING held at Tooele City, July 13,
placed the following names on the People’s
Ticket, for Tooele County: for representative in
the Legislature, George Atkin; probate judge,
John Roberry; sheriff, W. H. Lee; recorder, R.
Warburton; selectman, G. W. Bryan; treasur-
er, F. Atkin, Jr.: supt. of common schools, A.
Galloway.
	THE MINUTES of the City Council held Tues,
14th inst., contain the following in relation to
the grand Jubilee, to take place on the Twenty-
fourth: Petition of George Goddard on behalf
of the executive committee on the coming jubi-
lee, asking that Washington Square be thrown
open for teams coming in the city from the
south on the day of the jubilee; also that places
be set apart for teams coming to the city from
the north on that day, and that guards be pro-
vided to protect property, was referred to the
marshal, with instructions to act in accordance
with the prayer of the petition.
	A PROCLAMATION by the governor of the
Territory, dated July 14th, fixes the times and
places of holding the Territorial Supreme and
District Courts as follows: The Supreme Court
to be held in this city, on the second Monday
in January and the first Monday in June of
each year. The First District Court to be held
in Provo, on the third Monday in the months
of September, November, February and May
of each year. The Second District Court to be
held in Beaver City, on the first Monday in
September, November, February and April, re-
spectively, of each year. The Third District
Court to be held in Salt Lake City, on the first
Monday in the months of October, December,
March and May respectively of each year.
	THE FOLLOWING order has been issued by the
Supreme Court.
	“Territory of Utah, }
	 Supreme Court,     }
			“SALT LAKE CITY, July 8, 1874.
	“Present, McKean, Chief Justice, Emerson,
Associate.
	“It is ordered that the following persons be,
and they are hereby appointed commissioners
of this Court, to have and exercise the author-
ity and duties conferred by law, to wit:
	“Charles W. Emerson, to reside at Provo
City, First Judicial District.
	“James R. Wilkins, to reside at Beaver, Sec-
ond Judicial District.
	“Dennis J. Toohy and N. Kimball,'to reside
at Salt Lake City, Third Judicial District."
	THE FOLLOWING extract from the Millennial
Star of June 16, concerning the unusually low
fares this season, may be of interest to those
who still have friends in Europe. “The next
company will leave Liverpool on the 24th of
this month, (June) the fare to Ogden being the
same as that of the present company—namely,
adults, £12 16—children, under twelve years,
at half fare, and infants, under 1 year, 10 shill-
ings each, with the benefit of any reduction
that there might be at the time of booking the
passengers. Children under five years, will go
free of charge on the railroad from New York.
	It is impossible to say how long these low
prices across the sea will continue; but, un-
doubtedly, the breach—which has caused the
reduction from six guineas to three pounds,
from Liverpool to New York—if not restored
will, as far as possible, be repaired by the ship-
ping companies interested, as soon as they can
effect that object."


DIVERSIONS.

	ABOUT women—Men.
	THE dead of winter—Flies.
	THE hymn for the Centennial—Old Hun-
dred.
	CHEMISTS say no matter is ever lost.
Printers deny it.
	FARMERS gather what they sow, while 
seamstresses sew what they gather.
	A NEW definition for an old maid is, a
woman that has been made a long time.
	"MONEY is very tight," said a thief, who
was trying to break open a bank vault.
	MADDER colors red. This is the reason
why, the madder you get, the redder you 
grow.
	A WESTERN paper announces the death
of a lady celebrated for the "purity of her
character and complexion."
	THE man who wanted to take another
person apart when he had something to say
to him, lately asked for the private ear of a
friend, and was told that privateering was
illegal.
	JENKINS told his son, who proposed to 
buy a cow in partnership, to be sure and buy 
the hinder half, as it eats nothing and gives
all the milk.
	A WRITER in a sympathetic paragraph, ob-
served that "Mr. Smith could hardly bear
the loss of his wife," only to find that the
printer had made it "Mr. Smith could hardly 
bear such a boss for a wife."
	A TRICKY horse-jockey owned a notori-
ously vicious horse that was one day levied 
upon by the sheriff, and advertised to be
sold for debt. "Very well," said the jockey,
if the sheriff can sell that horse to anybody
in this country, he is welcome to do so.
I've tried hard to sell him, and gave it up
long ago."
	AN Indianapolis editor is responsible for
this: "A young lady in Indiana sought to de-
molish an unfaithful lover by publishing
some verses addressed to him, in which,
after prophesying her immediate dissolution
she said: 'Come gaze upon my dust, false 
one.' But the compositor spelled dust with
a 'b.'"
	A MAN sent a note to a rich neighbor
whom he was on friendly terms with, to
borrow an ass for a few hours. The worthy
old man was no scholar, and happened to 
have a guest sitting with him at the time,
that he did not wish to expose his ignorance
to. Opening the note, and pretending to
read it, after reflecting a moment, turning 
to the servant, "Very good," says he; "tell
your master I'll come myself presently."
	WHEN the British ships under Lord Nel-
son were bearing down to attack the com-
bined fleet of Trafalgar, the first lieutenant
of one of the ships, on going round to see
that all hands were at quarters, observed one
of the men devoutly kneeling at the side of 
his gun. Such an atitude in a British sailor
exciting his surprise and curiosity, he went 
and asked the man if he was afraid.
"Afraid?" answered the sailor: "no! I was
only praying that the enemy's shot may be 
distributed in the same proportion as prize-
money—the greater part among the offi-
cers."
	A CUSTOMER came in one day and said,
"Old woman, what do you ask for herring?"
"Three cents apiece," said the old lady.
"I'll take one," says the customer; and the
aged vender proceeded to do it up. "What
do you ask for beer?" said the customer, as
the parcel was handed him. "Three cents
a glass," said she. "On the whole," said 
he, "I'll take a glass of beer instead of the
herring." So he took the beer and started
to go. "Beg your prrdon," said the old
lady, "but you haven't paid for the beer."
"Paid for it! Of course not. Didn't I give
you back the herring for it?" "Well, but,"
persisted the old lady, "you didn't pay for 
the herring!" "Pay for the herring! Of
course I didn't. I didn't take it, did I?"
"Well," said the old woman, after a pause,
in which she strove in vain to master the
mathematics of it, "I presume you're cor-
rect, but I wish you wouldn't trade here
any more."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿MOTHER’S GROWING OLD.

Her steps are slow and weary;
	Her hands unsteady now,
And paler still, and deeper
	The lines upon her brow;
Her meek blue eyes have faded;
	Her hair has lost its gold;
Her once firm voice now falters—
	My mother’s growing old.

Her days of strength are over;
	Her earthly joys depart,
But peace and holy beauty
	Are shining in her heart;
The links that bind the spirit
	Relax their trembling hold;
She soon will be an angel—
	Sweet mother’s growing old.

My thought's flow back to childhood,
	When fondled on her knee,
I poured out all my sorrows,
	Or lisped my songs of glee;
But now upon me leaning
	So wearily and cold,
With trembling lips she murmurs,
	“Dear child, I’m growing old."

I think of all her counsels,
	So precious to my youth;
How faithfully she taught me
	God's sacred words of truth;
How tenderly she led me
	To Jesus’ blessed fold,
Where she will soon be welcomed,
	No longer bowed and old.

The path of daily duty
	Was ever her delight,
She walked by faith and patience,
	And trusted God for sight.
Her hands with useful labor,
	Each day their mission told;
Her deeds, like heavenly roses,
	Still bloom, though she is old.

Alas! those hands so skillful,
	Which toiled with loving grace
To make me blessed with comforts,
	And home a happy place;
Those dear hands, pale and wrinkled,
	Are now by time controled,
They rest in prayerful quiet—
	—Dear mother's growing old. 

Yet though her earthly temple
	Fast falleth day by day,
Her soul with faith increasing,
	Pursues its heavenward way,
And then the mists of earth-life
	Shall from her sight be rolled,
She'll shine in youth and beauty,
	Where spirits ne’er grow old.

Oh, mother, fond and faithful,
	Thou truest earthly friend,
May I be near to soothe thee
	Till all thy struggles end.
And while with sad hearts yearning
	Thy form my arms enfold,
I pray in peace to meet thee
	Where saints no more grow old.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Bleach Discolored Flannel.—To restore the
original appearance of white flannel, which has
turned yellowish by lying for a long time, or by
wear, soak for an hour in a weak solution of bi-sul-
phate of soda, then add a little dilute muriatic acid,
stir well and cover the vessel for twenty minutes. 
After this take the flannel out, rinse in plenty of 
soft water and dry in the sun. The flannel will be 
purely white. 

	Reomoving Greese Spots.—Make a paste of
quicklime, washing soda, and as little water as
possible, put it on the grease spots, when you have
with stone or wood. It may, however, discolor the
wood or make it darker. In case you wish to avoid
this, cover the wood or paper with dry carbonate
of magnesia, powdered chalk, or even dry starch
powder, place on top a thick blotting-paper, and
then a hot flatiron. This will draw out the greese.
If not fully drawn out, scrape off the powder and
repeat the operation. Some liquid ammonia may
finish the job if the heat does not fully clean it all
up.

	To Cook Rice.—Following is the method recom-
mended by the French Academy for cooking rice
during the seige of Paris: Take one cup of rice and
one-fourth of a cup of water in a saucepan, cover,
and place over a good fire; after an hour the water
will be evaporated, and the rice cooked tender, but
dry, with grains distinct, not in paste. Sufficient
salt should be added, in the first place, and care
should be taken not to disturb the rice while cook-
ing. By adding a little butter, and allowing the
rice to dry a little more over a gentle fire, a more
delicate dish is prepared. Rice is cooked in this 
manner in the East Indies.

	Testing Colored Fabrics.—Prof. Stein of Dres-
den, has recently published a little book on this
subject, from which we extract a few tests which
can be readily applied by persons who are not chem-
ists and who have no laboratories to work in.
	Red.—A piece of the goods is first boiled in
soap water, which should remain colorless, or nearly
so. Secondly, it is boiled in lime water, which
should be colored but little, if any, while the color
of the goods must not become paler, or become
brown or yellow. These simple experiments suf-
fice to indicate the presence or absence of camwood,
archil, santel and the coal-tar colors.
	Yellow.—The most permanent yellow is madder:
the least so are Orleans and turmeric. Only those
of the first class will stand washing. To test a
yellow it is first boiled in water, then in alcohol,
and finally in lime water. If the former are col-
ored quite a yellow, and the latter a reddish, while
the stuff acquires a reddish-brown tint, the color is
not fast.
	Blue.—This color is not fast if, on boiling with
alcohol, it gives to it a red, a violet-red or a blue
color, or, if on warming it with muriatic acid and
water or alcohol, the liquid turns red, or the goods
turn red or brown-red.
	Violet and Purple.—Madder violets, and those
formed by combining indigo-carmine with cochineal,
are fast. If fast colors are combined with fugitive
colors they lose their value. All violets are to be 
considered poor if they give up a considerable
amount of color when boiled in equal parts of wa-
ter and alcohol, and allowed to stand ten or fifteen
minutes. Also, if they change to a brown or red-
dish brown by boiling in dilute muriate acid.
	Orange.—The goods are first boiled in water; if
this is colored the colors are fugitive. If the wa-
ter remains colorless, the sample is next boiled with
alcohol, to which it should give no color.
	Green.—Dilute alcohol should not be colored
blue, green or yellow when boiled with the goods,
nor should muriatic acid acquire a red or blue color.
	Browns—Are not so easily tested; If, however,
they give a red color to water, or a yellow color to
alcohol, they may be considered as fugitive.
	Black.—If, on boiling the goods in water con-
taining some muriatic acid, it only imparts a yel-
low color to the liquid, the color is fast. If, on the
other hand, the liquid acquires a red color and the
stuff turns brown, the dye is not permanent, but 
nearly worthless.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Dyspepsia.—The following extract was
commended to our notice by an experienced 
physician.:—Consider for a moment how
vast an amount of our personal misery, to
say nothing of the actual sin and of the
wretchedness which our consequent ill-tem-
per brings on others, arises from dispepsia.
Perhaps this malady is answerable, directly
or indirectly, for more unhappiness, and does
more to lower the general tone and average
of human enjoyment, than any other. We
all of us know something of it, many of us
know it well; we can estimate, in some
measure, how much the cheerfulness and
brightness of our daily life is impaired by
its pernicious prevalence, how it saps good
spirits, how it sours good temper. Well,
how obvious are its causes; in most instan-
ces, how possible its cure! How many of
us toil half our life to earn it, begin early in
its cultivation, dig for it as for hidden treas-
ures! We generally lay the foundation for
it in childhood, or in our first youth, by reck-
less and ignorant self-indulgence—the faults
of parents and teachers, you will say, and
what they could have checked in time had
they known and valued the laws of physiol-
ogy. True, but we ourselves are, or have
been, or will be, those very parents and
teachers. Then, do we not ourselves com-
mit much the same follies as our children,
when we eat, as we habitually do, more than
is good for us; when we eat, as most of us
do, what we know will disagree with us;
when the pleasures of the palate tempt us
to do more than satisfy our hunger or recruit
our strength; when we drink alcohol, not
because we need it, but because we like it;
when we take a second glass, not because a
second was required, but because the first
was very good; when smoking becomes a
regular habit, instead of an occasional in-
dulgence; In all these cases we are sowing
seeds for an inevitable harvest—we are dili-
gently earning our wages and incurring a
recorded obligation. If only all wages were
as well earned and all debts as certain to be
paid! When we sit lazily in our arm-chair
under circumstances which indicate that we
ought to be in active exercise; when we sit
in close rooms and in a vitiated atmosphere, 
instead of breathing the clear air of heaven;
when we go on toiling and thinking long
after our sensations warn us that we have
expended the income and are drawing on
the capital of our cerebral strength; when-
ever, in a word, we neglect the plainest
physiological laws (which it is difficult not
to read whenever our attention is drawn to
them), then we are laying the foundation of
that functional disorder of the digestive or-
gans which entails so certain and so sad a
penalty. I am sceptical about stomach ail-
ments which a man has done nothing to de-
serve. I scarcely believe in any which
either he or his progenitors have not worked
hard to generate. I believe, moreover, that
those are few which, however induced origi-
nally, may not be cured or kept in bounds,
even after mature age is reached, by sedu-
lous care scientifically directed. We are
most of us familiar with the case of Cornaro, 
who, awakening at forty years of age to
the consciousness of a shattered constitution,
yet contrived, by sagacious observation and
incessant vigilance, to recover the tone of
an outraged and enfeebled stomach, and
lived in laughing comfort to a green old age.
—"Enigmas of Life."

	BORAX FOR COLDS.—A writer in The
Medical Record cites a number of cases in
which borax has proved a most effective
remedy in certain forms of colds. He states
that in sudden hoarseness or loss of voice
in public speakers or singers, from colds, re-
lief for an hour or so, as by magic, may be
often obtained by slowly dissolving, and
partially swallowing, a lump of borax the
size of a garden pea, or about three or four
grains held in the mouth for ten minutes
before speaking or singing. This produces
a profuse secretion of saliva, or "watering"
of the mouth and throat, probably restoring
the voice or tone to the dried vocal cords,
just as wetting brings back the missing
notes to a flute when it is too dry.


MRS. Gove who has been in charge of the
W. U. Telegraph office at Los Angelos has
resigned on account of ill health, and Miss
M. E. Little formerly assistant in the office
has charge of it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DANIEL WEBSTER’S' FIRST PLEA.

	Ebenezer Webster, father of Daniel, was
a farmer. The vegetables in his garden suf-
fered considerably from the depredations of
a woodchuck, whose hold and habitation
was near the premises. Daniel, some ten
years old, and his brother Ezekiel, had set
a trap, and at last succeeded in catching the
trespasser. Ezekiel proposed to kill the
animal and end at once all further trouble
with him; but Daniel looked with compas-
sion upon his meek, dumb captive, and of-
fered to let him go. The boys could not
agree, and each appealed to their father to
decide the case.
	"Well my boys," said the old gentleman,
“I will be the judge and you shall be the
counsel to plead the case for and against his
life and liberty.”
	Ezekiel opened the case with a strong ar-
gument urging the mischievous nature of
the criminal, the great harm he had already
done, said that much time and labor had
been spent in his capture, and now, if suf-
fered to go at large, he would renew his
depredations, and be cunning enough not to
be caught again, and that he ought now to
be put to death; that his skin was of some
value, and that, make the most of him they
could, it would not repay half the damage
he had already done. His argument was
ready, practical, and to the point, and of
much greater length than our limit will al-
low us to occupy in relating the story.
	The father looked with pride upon his
son, who became a distinguished jurist in
his manhood.
	“Now, Daniel, it’s your, turn; I’ll hear
what you’ve got to say.”
	It was his first case. Daniel saw that the
plea of his brother had sensibly affected his
father, the judge; and his large, brilliant
black eyes rested upon the soft, timid ex-
pression of the animal, and he saw it trem-
bled with fear in its narrow prison house.
His heart swelled with pity, and he appeal-
ed with eloquent words that the captive
might go free. God, he said, had made
the woodchuck; He made him to live to en-
joy the bright sunshine, the pure air, the
fields and woods. God had not made him
or anything in vain. The woodchuck had
as much right to live as any other living
thing; he was not a destructive animal, like
the wolf;  he simply ate a few common veg-
etables, of which they had plenty, and could
well spare a part; he destroyed nothing ex-
cept the little food he ate to sustain his
humble life; and that little food was as
sweet to him and as necessary to his exist-
ence as was to them the food on their moth-
er’s table. God furnished their own food.
He gave them all they possessed, and would
they not spare a little for a dumb creature
who really had as much right to his small
share of God’s bounty as they themselves
had to their portion? Yea, more; the ani-
mal had never violated the laws of his na-
ture or the laws of God, as man often did,
but strictly followed the simple instincts he
had received from the hands of the Creator
of all things. Created by God’s hands, he
had a right from God to food, to liberty,
and they had no right to deprive him of
either. He alluded to the mute but earnest
pleadings of the animal for that life, as dear
to him as were their own, and the just
judgment they might expect, if in selfish
cruelty and cold-heartedness they took the
life they could not restore again.
	During the appeal the tears had started
in the old man’s eyes, and were fast running
down his sunburnt cheeks. Every feeling
of a father’s heart was stirred within him,
and he felt that God had blessed him be-
yond the lot of common men. His pity was
awakened by the eloquent words of com-
passion and the strong appeal for mercy;
and, forgetting the judge in the man and
the father, he sprang from his chair (while
Daniel was in the midst of his argument,
without thinking he had already won his
case), and turning to his eldest son, dashing
the tears from his eyes, he exclaimed:
"Zeke, Zeke, you let that woodchuck go.”
—Portfolio.


[For the Exponent.
			THE ORDER.
		BY JANE THORN.
	The subject we have chosen seems to be
setting the minds and tongues of the peo-
ple agog.  We do not think we could have
selected a more suitable one to write about;
inasmuch, as it so nearly concerns our tem-
poral and spiritual welfare.
	The "Order," as it is generally understood,
is going to pull open our purse-strings and
abstract a few dollars therefrom.  But as it
really IS, it is for our own benefit here as
well as hereafter.  Our fathers, husbands
and brothers are continually preaching re-
form—in dress, at table, and in all extrava-
gant display.  How is this to be effected
except by a general movement of the peo-
ple?  We have tried retrenchment societies,
and only the few have entered into them;
the many, still rush onward in their head-
long race after fashion and gaiety, yet some
among them are really good at heart and
anxious to do right.  Here, the "Order"
will effect a general revolution.  We are
firmly convinced that no Mormon, or rather,
no Latter-day Saint will think for a moment
of remaining out of it.  It naturally follows
that our sisters will adopt a style of dress,
more becoming their means and more in ac-
cordance with their religion.
	While lately conversing with a widow
lady, she argued thus:
	"My friend, you have not a family of
children left on your hands to care for. I
shall see that their future is well looked
after and that the Order shall not affect their
interests before I join."  "My dear;" I re-
plied, "can not you  trust them in God's
hands?  You rely on our beloved President
to guide them spiritually, can not you  feel
the same confidence in him, as regards their
earthly welfare?"  She called my views
"spiritualistic"—fancy! spiritualistic.  May
I always be a Spiritualist then.
	We know, as well as the great old French
Emperor, that "women rule the world;"
then, knowing this fact, should we not bring
all our mighty influence to bear, on this,
the great event of our generation?  "Shoul-
der arms!"  my sisters, and "Present arms"
(round your husband's and brother's necks)
and gird on the mighty armor of Truth and
Faith.
	Who was there among us afraid to pitch
our tents in Salt Lake Valley; when the
voice of the Lord, through His servants,com-
manded us to stay our feet for here was our
resting-place. Then, who among us, now,
will refuse to unite our whole efforts to roll
on this grand, mighty Order that will even-
tually prepare us to go back to Jackson
County, build the city of Zion, and be ready
for the second coming of Christ.
	Those who say they will "wait to see how
it is all going to turn out," little know how
much they are losing through their procras-
tination and want of faith.
	Let us rather say, "Go on my husband,"
"Go on my brother, and we will hold up


your arms, even as Aaron did of old. We
will be true and faithful; so that when the
Lamb claims His own, we shall stand by
your side, ready to receive our crowns of
glory and reign Queens forever more."


FLORAL HINTS.

	MYOSOTIS IMPERATRICE ELIZABETH.—
This exquisite forget-me-not is recommend-
ed by The Florist as a charming plant, and
one of the very best for pot culture.

	POT COVERER.—A novelty, invented by
M. Gorse, of Paris, recommends itself to
the notice of those who cultivate plants in
rooms. It consists simply of a circular piece
of zinc made to fit the top of the pot, and
divided into semi-circles, united by a hinge
at one point of contact. In the center, a
space is left, which allows free room for the
stem of the plant. The utillity of this in-
vention seems chiefly to be that plants thus
protected will require much less water than
they otherwise would, as the evaporation
from the soil in the pot would be considera-
bly diminished.

	ARRANGEMENT OF FLOWERS.—A few
simple rules in the arrangement of flowers,
with reference to color, will materially en-
hance the effect produced.
	1. Avoid placing rose-colored next to scar-
let, orange or violet.
	2. Do not place orange next to yellow,
nor blue next to violet.
	3. White relieves any color, but least of
all yellow.
	4. Orange appears best with blue, and
yellow with violet.

	PROPAGATION OF THE ROSE.—Roses are
very easily propagated by cuttings and lay-
ers. For garden roses the process of layer-
ing is the best. Take good strong shoots
that come the nearest to the ground, and
strip off a few leaves from half a foot or
more toward the point of the shoot, and in-
sert a sharp knife just behind an eye or
joint on the upper side of the shoot, and
pass it carefully upward, cutting about half
through the stem, and from an inch to two
inches in length. Loosen the soil beneath 
the shoot, bend it down, and press it firmly
into the earth; peg it down with a long
hair-pin or a bit of wood, two or three inches
beneath the surface, and cover it firmly with
soil. June, July and August are the best
months for this operation. Take the time
when the bush has nearly ceased to bloom
and the shoots are growing vigorously. If
the weather is dry, water the layers every
evening; don't let them become dry. By
October or November they will have become
rooted, then cut them off within two inches
of the parent stem, and transplant where
you desire them to grow another season.
In the spring, prune the the stem down to
three or four joints, and the rose will bloom
finely. The Chinese layer roses in this
manner: by cutting a slit, as described
above, and putting a small stone into the
tongue to keep it open; then bind a handful
of fresh green moss around it, and keep it
constantly wet, and the tiny roots will shoot
forth into the moss so rapidly that in five or
six weeks the layer can be removed from
the bush and planted in the ground without
disturbing the moss, and fine, healthy, fresh
plants are the result.


AT forty years of age a man looks back
over his past life and wonders what he did
it for, and turns wistfully toward the future,
and keeps on doing it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	AN ENCHANTED TABLE.—A novel din-
ing-table is now in use in one of the palaces
of the emperor of Russia. The table is cir-
cular, and placed on a weighted platform.
At the touch of a signal, down goes the ta-
ble through the floor, and a new table, load-
ed with fresh dishes and supplies, rises in
its place. But this is not all; each plate
stands on a weighted disk, the table-cloth
being cut with circular openings, one for
each plate. If a guest desires a change of
plate, he touches a signal at his side, when,
presto, his plate disappears, and another
rises. In this country, at the Oneida Com-
munity, they employ dining-tables having
the centre part made to revolve. Here the
goblets, spoons, tea and coffee, castors, pitch-
er, and other necessary articles of table fur-
niture are replaced; by revolving the cen-
ter piece, the sitter brings before him what-
ever article may be desired without the in-
vention of a special waiter.

	WOMEN IN SWITZERLAND.—One hundred
women climb each day to the splendid
buildings which overlook the city of Zurich
—the first fountain of learning in the repub-
lic; a thousand women toil from sunrise till
late evening in the narrow lanes below,
dragging heavy hand-carts, staggering under
large burdens balanced upon their heads,
sawing wood, or gathering the refuse from
the streets with basket and shovel--in short,
performing the most menial service that the
lowest class of male laborers are condemned
to do in America. I have often seen two
slender women sawing oak and ash wood in
the streets, while a stout fellow stood by,
leisurely splitting the sawn sticks. One
poor old creature the other day, sat upon a
curb-stone, holding her saw reversed be-
tween her knees, and in utter weakness was
rubbing the stick of wood upon it to saw it
in two.—Bosthn Advertiser.

	CURIOUS CLOCK.—Among the curiosities
left by the late Senator Sumner was an old
German clock which stood in the hall. Its
case is much like the old pier or hall clocks
that are occasionally seen in old families,
but it has great value. Besides marking
the seconds, minutes, hours, days, months
and years, it shows the phases of the moon,
and indicates other matters of a like nature.
It contains a chime of bells of rare sweet-
ness of tone, and marks the hours, the
halves and quarters with the chime,
sometimes beating a tune. Various bids,
the highest reaching $3,000, have been of-
fered for this clock, but declined. Mrs.
Hastings of San Francisco, Mr. Sumner's
sister, has expressed a desire to have the
clock, and it will be sent to her.

	THE following was written for boys but
we think it is equally as well to girls who
are trying to "work their way in life." A
great many boys complain that there are no
places. Perhaps it is hard to get just such
a place as you like. But when you get a
place—and there are places, for this big
country, we are sure, has need of every
boy and girl and man and woman in it--
when you get a place, make yourself neces-
sary to your employers; make yourself so
necessary by your fidelity and good behavior,
that they cannot do without you. Be will-
ing to take a low price first no matter what
the work is, if it be honest work. Do it as
well as you can. Begin at the very lowest
round of the ladder, if necessary, and climb
up. The great want everywhere is faithful,
capable workers. They are never a drug in
the market. Make yourself one of these,
and there will always be a place for you,
and a good one.

	EDUCATING BOYS AND GIRLS TOGETHER.
—After thirty-two years experience, Dr.
Woolworth writes:
	"'1. The co-education of the sexes has
been favorable to good order and discipline.
	"'2. A mutual stimulating influence has
been exerted on scholarship.
	"'3. There have been no scandals—at
least not more than may exist between the
members of a school limited to one sex, and
the outside world.
	Principal Armstrong, of the Normal
School at Fredonia, N. Y., says:
	"My observation shows that the morals of
students of either sex deteriorate, appar-
ently, in proportion to the rigor of the sepa-
ration of the sexes. The same is true of
their delicacy of feeling, their sense of
honor, and their love of truth.
	"In all mixed seminaries and academies
where social intercourse of the sexes was
either forbidden or largely restrained, the
ladies lost in prudence, delicacy, and truth-
fulness, even faster than the gentleman.
	"For many years my views of school gov-
ernment have been much more liberal than
the common practice would justify. In this
Normal School I allow, and even encourage,
all the freedom of intercourse between the
sexes, which would be allowed in a well-
regulated family.—Am. Ed. Monthly.


﻿LUCY DOWNING.
	Lucy Downing, sister of John Winthrop,
was one of the chief movers for a higher
education here in America, and her solicita-
tions led to the founding of Harvard College.
Her brother urged her to settle here, but she
declined doing so unless some provision was
made for the education of her son George.
She says: “It would make me go far nim-
bler to New England, if God should call me
to it, than otherwise I should; and I believe
a college would put no small life into the
plantation.” This was in 1636, and in Octo-
ber of the same year, the general court at
Boston voted £400 to a college of which
£200 was to be paid in 1637, and the other
half when the building was finished. In
November, 1637, the building was located
at Cambridge, and about a year afterward
it was endowed by Rev. John Harvard with
one-half his estate. The President took his
seat in 1640, and second on the list of his
first graduating class of nine young men,
six of whom became ministers, stands the
name of Lucy Downing’s George, the
nephew of Gov. Winthrop. The “solicitous
suit” of the good dame had prevailed, and
Harvard College has since had a name in
the world for more than two centuries and a
quarter; while Lucy Downing has been
well-nigh forgotten and as much neglected,
even by her own George, as her sex has
been by the college she teased into exis-
tence. The Springfield Republican well
says that Lucy Downing, the young mother,
vexing her soul and pinching her purse, and
putting her daughters out to service, in or-
der to give her sons a good education—
Lucy Downing coaxing the founders of New
England to establish a college for boys—has
been a type of her sex from that day to this.
The men of New England are more indebt-
ed to the women of New England than to
their own sex for their good educations; yet
no sooner do they ask for the like privileges
for their own sex than the ungrateful men
and the ungracious boys who have thriven
by their sacrifices and sagacity, call them
bold and covetous, and refuse to admit them
to the colleges they founded.


﻿A little Troy boy, who was worrying
over a piece of shad at dinner lately, demor-
alized his mother by asking—"Mamma,
where did God find all the bones to make
the first shad of?”
	“Uncle Charles,” said a six-year-old, the
other day, “can you tell me why the sun
sets in the west at night, and rises in the
east in the morning?”
	“Pshaw!” said Uncle Charles, “the first
fool you meet can tell you that.”
	“Yes, uncle,” replied the sweet boy,
“that’s why I asked you!”


DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City. 
	
			      H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			  storey Brick Store on  FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
		    Where he is prepared to do a
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
				
				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting; the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter np of
	the club,			-	-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price$4    -	    -	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all name sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another ahonld send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladlies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1874	﻿	No. 5


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	JAPAN HAS done a sensible thing, if re-
port speaks truly, in prohibiting the public
exhibition of deformed persons and other
human monstrosities.

	MISS FRANCES Willard lately resigned
her office of Dean of North Western Uni-
versity because she could not agree with
the faculty in regard to the government of
the college and preparatory school.

	THE LADIES' Physiological Society fo
Brooklyn has started on the war path against
corsets, high-heeled shoes, false hair and
every other fashion injurious to health and
physical beauty.

	THEY HAVE no big snake stories at St.
Johnsville but make up the deficiency by
claiming that a farmer there has hens which
build their nests in the trees and lay their
eggs in them.

	NANCY W. COVILLE, of Keene, New
Hampshire has publicly protested against
having to pay taxes while she is a disfran-
chised citizen and not allowed to vote for
the "powers that be." This she considers
"taxation without representation." The
rights that the few are struggling for now,
will, we hope, be enjoyed by the many in
the early future.

	"THE ATTORNEY General has decided
that, irrespective of the time or place of
marriage, or the residences of the parties,
a white woman married to a citizen of this
country is to be taken and deemed a citi-
zen of the United States"—Washington Star.
Which shows that the legislators who con-
ferred the elective franchise on the women
of Utah are not the only ones to be con-
demned for holding the same ideas concern-
ing woman's citizenship.

	THERE WERE six women in the gradua-
ting class of the University of Michigan at
Ann Arbor. One lady student received the
degree of Pharmaceutical chemist, another
that of Doctor of Medicine. The ladies
belonging to the graduating clases attended
the usual commencement dinner at which
about 350 persons were present. It was re-
marked that the speakers addressed their
hearers as "ladies and gentlemen" for the
first time, there having been so few lady
students in the classes of '72 and '73 that
they did not feel like attending these state
dinners.

WE CLIPPED the following from an exchange
because we concurred with the closing sen-
timent, especially if the judge referred to
is the Mr. Poland that labored so diligently
in the last Congress to procure special and
unjust legislation for Utah: "When Judge
Poland reported unfavorably upon a large
number of petitions asking for Woman
Suffrage in the District of Columbia, we are
told 'that the leaders of the Woman's
Rights movement watched this report from
the gallery with much indignation.' We
hope that this indignation will make itself
felt some day, in remanding such men to
private life."

	TWENTY-FIVE married women of Daven-
port, Iowa, have formed themselves into a
mutual improvement society, styled the
"Clionian Club." This we read in a letter
to the "Woman's Journal" in which the
writer observes "Don't you think it would
be a good plan to organize such a club for
the young women? And in this way, by
essays and discussions, get many interested
in the "Cause" who otherwise would give
it but little attention." While the need of
mutual effort is thus felt in other places the
sisters here can feel that their wants have
been anticipated by the organizations of
Relief and Retrenchment societies for
both old and young.


DIVERSIONS.

	FRETWORK—Vexation of spirit.

	ENGAGED for every set—A hen.

	WHY is a chicken like a farmer? Because
both delight in a full crop.

	NEXT to a diary, the most difficult thing
to keep is a lead pencil.

	THE earliest financial transaction on re-
cord? When Pharaoh recieved a check on
the bank of the Red Sea, crossed by "Moses
& Co."

	"THERE!" said Jones, as he wrathfully
pushed away the pie which his landlady had
just served him, "that stuff isn't fit for a pig
to eat and I am not going to eat it!"

	"DOCTOR," said a conceited literary man
to Holmes on the streets of Boston, "I am
going to deliver my lecture in Lowell to-
night." "I am glad of it; I dislike those
Lowell people," retorted the doctor. 

	A TOMBSTONE in the Yazoo Miss., ceme-
tary bears the following inscription:
	"Here lies interred Priscilla Bird,
	Who sang on earth 'till sixty-two;
	Now up on high, above the sky,
	No doubt she sings like sixty, too." 

	A PHILADELPHIAN who met a Bostonian
and remarked that Boston would be a fine
city if it was only laid out differently—like
Philadelphia, for instance. "Well," replied
the Boston man, "If Boston ever becomes
as dead as Philadelphia, we will try to "lay
it out" like that city. 

	A WIDE-awake minister, who found his
congregation going to sleep before he had
fairly commenced, suddenly stopped and
exclaimed, "Brethren this isn't fair; it isn't
giving a man half a chance. Wait till I get
along, and then if I ain't worth listening to,
go to sleep, but don't before I commence;
give a man a chance."

	"DOES your arm pain you?" asked a witty
Aberdeen lady of a gentleman, who, at a
party, had thrown his arm across the back
of her chair, so that it touched her shoulder.
"No, madam, it dosn't pain me; but why
do you ask?" "Oh I noticed that it was
dislocated, sir; that's all. The arm was re-
moved.

	WILLIAM M. Evarts tells this good story:
A few summers since, at the urgent request
of one of his younger daughters, he sent up
to his country place in Vermont a donkey
for her use. She had read about donkeys,
but was not familiar with their peculiar vo-
calism. The animal's strange noises inspired
her with profoundest pity for his evident
distress. So she wrote to her father, "Dear
papa, I do wish you would come up here
soon—my donkey is so lonesome."
	
	THEY tell a funny incident which hap-
pened lately at an auction sale of damaged
goods. A pair of blankets were up which
seemed to take the eye of the crowd; the
highest bid was a dollar, from a lady who
determined to have them. But she had an
unseen opponent, who ran her up to five
dollars, and had the blankets knocked down
to him.
	"Yours, Mr. Mae," said the smiling auc-
tioneer.
	Whereupon the lady rose and exclaimed,
"What! my husband?" and raising herself
on tiptoe to get sight of him, "Why, you
good-for-nothing man, you have been bid-
ding against your wife.

	A MASSACHUSETTS farmer says, "My cat-
tle will follow me until I leave the lot, and
on the way up to the barn-yard in the eve-
ning stop and call for a lock of hay." Smith-
son says there is nothing at all remarkable
in that. He went into a barn-yard in the
country one day last week, where he had
not the slightest acquaintance with the cat-
tle, and the old bull not only followed him
till he left the lot, but took the gate off the
hinges and raced with him to the house in
the most familiar manner possible. Smith-
son says he has no doubt that the old fellow
would have called for something if he had
waited a little while, but he didn't want to
keep the folks waiting dinner: so he hung
one tail of his coat and a piece of his pants
on the bull's horns, and went into the
house.


TO YOUNG MEN.

	Young men have it, as an excuse for leav-
ing the farm, that educated, well-bred
young women turn up their noses at and
will not associate with nor marry farmers;
and they fling out that the women of the
day are too refined and delicate, too lazy for
work and working men; but they are mis-
taken. It is not labor, but coarseness and
vulgarity that they turn up their noses at;
it is not the sun-browned, toil-hardened
hand, but the dirt, that they refuse; it is
not health-giving, soul-elevating work, but
slavish, degenerating drudgery and repul-
sive surroundings that they shun. No wo-
man who is worthy the love and respect of
a true man would shirk the labor and re-
sponsibilities of his calling, whatever it
might be; and there is no sensible one that
would not prefer an educated, well-bred,
robust farmer, to a pale, sallow, nervous
professional man.
	Cultivated, unselfish manliness is more
desirable in a husband than effeminacy and
gentlemanly leisure; and because a man
toils need he be a niggard?—becase he
plows and hoes need he be a boor?—because
he tills the soil and cleans the stables need
he forever go about and sit at his fireside
with the filth and the smell clinging to him?
—because his life is a life of labor, need he
spend his rainy days and winter evenings
in lolling and dozing, and live and die in 
ignorance?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


LITTLE BROWN HANDS.

They drive home the cows from the pasture,
	Up through the long shady lane,
Where the quail whistles loud in the wheat fields
	That are yellow with ripening grain.
They find, in the thick waving grasses,
	Where the scarlet-lipped strawberry grows:
They gather the earliest snow-drops,
	And the first crimson buds of the rose.

Those who toil bravely are strongest;
	The humble and poor become great:
And from these brown-handed children
	Shall grow mighty rulers of State.
The pen of the author and statesmen—
	The noble and wise of the land—
The sword and the chisel and palette
	Shall be held in the little brown hand.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The Bountiful Relief Society and Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association met on
16th of June. Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I.
Horne, R. Grant, L. Wells, and — Wells
were present from Salt Lake City. After
singing and prayer, Sister E. R. Snow in an
interesting address on a number of topics,
referred to the institution of the Relief So-
ciety in the days of the Prophet Joseph and
said it was organized for the benefit of the
sisters that they might be united in their
efforts to do good. She concluded with
some counsel and encouragement to the
young ladies. Sisters Horne, Grant and
Wells followed with appropriate instructions
and exhortations to the sisters. Remarks
were also made by Elders Erastus Snow, of
St. George, and by Elders Stoker, Call and
Barlow, all expressing satisfaction with
what they had heard. Meeting adjourned
for two weeks; closed with singing, and
prayer.
	ELIZABETH H. BARLOW, President,
				MARY CARTER, Secretary.

	KAMAS, SUMMIT Co., July 12th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I send you a report of a meeting held on
the fourth of July, for the dedication of a 
house built by the Relief Society of this
place. Bishop S. F. Attwood, P. H. Young,
W. Harder and other brethren were present.
The Dedicatory prayer was offered by Bish-
op W. Harder. Much valuable instruction
was given to the sisters by Bp. S. T. Att-
wood and other Elders who were invited to
address the meeting. Several of the sis-
ters also spoke of the goodness of God and
expressed their determination to progress
and assist in every good work for the build-
ing up of the Kingdom of God on the earth.
The good Spirit of the Lord was enjoyed by
all present. Our society house is a one
story building, twenty-one by eighteen feet
in size and is well finished for a log build-
ing, logs being the best material we could
obtain in this place. We thankfully ac-
knowledge much assistance from our bishop
and several of our brethren, both of good
counsel and, what is still better—hard labor.
At the meeting, much regret was felt for the
absence of our President, Sister Mary J.
Attwood, who is just recovering from a long
and severe illness.
		PHEBE YOUNG, Asst. Secretary.

		    SMITHFIELD, July 19th, 1874.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our annual meeting, held May 12th, was
well attended by the members and all
seemed to enjoy a good spirit. Bishop Ros-
kelly was present, gave some excellent in-
structions and expressed himself well satis-
fied with the progress of the society. The
financial affairs of the Society are in a pros-
perous condition. Its income, for the year
ending May 12th 1874, amounted to $165.47;
of this $117.47 has been given to the poor,
the P. E. Fund and other objects. Besides
this the Society own shares in the co-opera-
tive Store, vouchers of the U. N. R. R. and
other property amounting to $276.98. Pres.
Mrs. E. T. Morehead and her counselors
made some excellent remarks in which the
EXPONENT was highly spoken of and the
sisters desired to subscribe and write for
it.			J. S. COLEMAN, Secretary.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE CO. July 19th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	We held our sixth annual meeting on the
11th inst. The Financial Report was read
and considered very favorable; the Society
having disbursed $164.84 to the needy leav-
ing an increase in the Treasury from last
year of $52.41. We are steadily increasing
and hope to build a Society house this
fall—the weather is excessively hot. For
some time past we have been silent re-
specting the worthy EXPONENT but not
because we underate its value, as we heart-
ily indorse its contents and will do all in 
in our power to add to the list of subscribers
—We feel thankful to see the day when the
United Order has been organized and still
hope to see the day when the Kingdom of
God will be fully established on the earth
and the priesthood bear rule in all things.
	Respectfully,
				E. WHITON, President,
				M. NARKISON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
BRIDGEPORT, ONEIDA CO., IDAHO,
						July 19, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I am willing to contribute some of my
simple thoughts as they may occur to my
mind while attending to the duties of a dairy 
life.
	Although I am for the present, almost
shut out from the society of the Saints, I
am not deprived of the faculty of thinking
and contemplating on the great goodness of
our Heavenly Father in overruling for the 
greatest good of his people.  Every weapon 
that is raised against them seems to fall 
harmless to the ground.  I think we should
be very humble and thankful; and, as 
daughters of Zion, manifest in our daily
walk and conversation and by the example
we set before the rising generation in mat-
ters of dress that we appreciate the counsels
and instructions that have been so unceas-
ingly bestowed upon us: also that we can 
and will retrench in every thing that leads
to extravagance.  Let our garments be
plain, the adorning of them being the handy
workmanship of our own hands, not even
spending too much of our time at that;
avoiding excess of every kind, and, in a
word, be sensible, wise workers in the great
Hive.  Let us not be found like the foolish
virgins who, it seems, had wasted their
time taking their ease, perhaps following
after foolish fashions till the cry was heard
“Behold the Bridegroom cometh go ye out
to meet him."
	With many prayers for the success of all
who contribute to the columns of the EXPO-
NENT and for all co-workers in the Kingdom
of God on the earth I subscribe myself your
sister in the Gospel.				E. S.


MRS. Vandeveer, wife of the proprietor of
the Neptune House at Coney Island has,
during the past week, saved the lives of 
two persons who were drowning in the 
surf.


THE SEX.
	MISS M. E. Little has been appointed
﻿Agent of the Western Union Telegraph
Company, at Santa Barbara.
	MISS Luella Fay of Springfield, Mass., de-
livered the valedictory and Miss Clara J,
Paige of Chicopee Falls, the salutatory’ ad-
dress at the semi-annual examination of the
Normal School in Westfield, Mass., last 
week.
	HELEN M. Knowlton & Co., are the edi-
tors and publishers of the Worcester "Pal-
ladium." The company is a sister of Miss
Helen, and the firm is composed of the
daughters of the founder of the paper, which
was established in 1834.
	MISS T. F. Panghorn is the present Record-
er of the Probate Court in Chittenden Coun-
ty, Vermont, the records of this court have
been made by women for the past five years,
and they are noted for their efficiency and 
correctness.
	A WOMAN of Polk Country Wisconsin, who
lives in a log house, the logs for which she 
cut down herself, is the mother of fourteen 
children, chops all her own wood, never re-
ceived a dollar from her husband, and is 
not yet forty years old. 
	CLARA Sarah Bernhardt, the refined ac-
tress of the Comedie Francais, is a sculptor,
and devotes as much time to her studies as
she can spare from the requirements of her
dramatic career.  She has a bust in white 
marble, of a young girl, at the Paris Salon.
	THE House Judiciary Committee, to
whom was referred the Petition of Susan B.
Anthony for a remission of the fine imposed
by Judge Hunt, report in an uncertain lan-
guage, their condemnation of the course
pursued in refusing Miss Anthony her right
to a verdict by the jury, and recommend
that the fine be remitted. 
	MISS Harriet Upton has bequeathed a 
thousand dollars to the city of Salem Mass.,
the interest to be devoted to the poor, every
Thanksgiving-day. She also left $500 each
to the Society for the relief of Aged and 
Destitute Women, Female Employment So-
ciety, and Seaman's Orphans and Children's 
Friend Society. 
	UNDER the new school law of California
the following elections have lately taken
place: Mrs. Wm. Cutler has been elected
School Trustee of Jenny Lind Township,
Calaveras Co. and Mrs. A. A. Anderson
and Mrs. J. M. Montgomery to the same of-
fice in Snelling District, Merced Co.  At an 
election for School Trustee, in San Ramon
School District, Contra Costa Co. Mrs. J. O.
Boone was the successful candidate, she suc-
ceeded her husband, whose term had ex-
pired. 
	MRS. Sarah White Livermore, one of the
noted literary women of New Hampshire
of the older generation, died at Wilton last
week.  She was one of the original Aboli-
tionists, and, in connection with Rev. Sam-
uel Barrett of Boston, then a student in 
town, Rev. Warren Burton, Samuel Abbot
and others, founded what was then called
"The Literary and Moral Society," designed
for the mutual improvement of the mem-
bers and of the community, long before the
New England Lyceum was thought of. Also,
in association with Mrs. Phebe Abbot,
mother of Prof. Ezra Abbot of Havard Uni-
versary, and other active friends, she start-
ed a Sunday School in 1816, one of the first,
if not the first, in the country, Mrs. Liv-
ermore would have been eighty-five years
old on the 20th inst.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SYNOPSIS.
	Of a Surprise Reception given to our re-
cently returned Delegate, Hon. Geo. Q. Can-
non, by the Ladies of the 14th Ward Relief
Society, in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
July 15th, 1874.
	The Hall was neatly fitted up for the oc-
casion, and ornamented with flowers. Above
the stand, on a white ground, in large let-
ters formed of evergreens, was

	WELCOME TO OUR DELEGATE.

	In a richly carpeted area in front of the
Stand, stood a table bearing a large and 
beautiful Cake, presented by Mrs. E. Town-
send of the Townsend House, ornamented
with "Welcome to our Delegate, G. Q. Can-
non," and other appropriate mottoes.
	Present, were Pres. B. Young and his two
Counsellors G. A. Smith and D. H. Wells—
of the Twelve, W. Woodruff, J. Taylor and
G.Q. Cannon; and other prominent gentle-
men and ladies.
	In the absence of Pres. Mrs. M. I. Horne,
Coun. Mrs. W. East presided.
	The exercises commenced with singing
by the choir—prayer by Bp. Thos. Taylor—
after which Mrs. W. East made the follow-
ing
		PRESENTATION ADDRESS.

	With the approval of our worthy Bishop—
in the absence of our President Mrs. M. I
Horne, who has been unexpectedly called
away; in behalf of the Relief Society of this
Ward, we take pleasure in presenting this 
small tribute, as a token of our appreciation
of the labors of our much esteemed and wor-
thy Delegate, George Q. Cannon, who has re-
turned from the Capitol in Washington, where
he labored during the past winter, in defense
of the Kingdom of God.
	God has been with him, to crown his ef-
forts with success. We are pleased to ex-
press our sentiments of confidence and re-
spect, by preparing this reception of Wel-
come Home; and beg his acceptance of a 
small present, manufactured by the ladies
of the Society—ladies who are faithful in
sustaining the cause of God and our rights.
	She then read an original poem composed
for the occasion, entitled

			WELCOME.

Welcome, thrice welcome, thou champion of truth—
Most faithful and true from the days of thy youth;
With pleasure we greet thee, nor wish thee to roam,
And many friends meet thee to welcome thee home.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

Accept as a token our remembrance of thee
A present—though small, not imported—you'll see
'Tis the work of your sisters whose hands love to tell
With the elements grown from our own native sell.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

Let the adorning our bodies be the work of thy hands,
Are the blesssings we seek, and the Prophet's commands
It was duty that call'd thee from loved ones to roam
Who rejoice in re-union to welcome thee home.
		Home, home, sweet home;
With joy and thanksgiving, we welcome thee home.

	Immediately after the poem, Conselor
Mrs. E. Wilkinson presented the "Hat,"
which is of straw, fine and beautiful—
braided by Mrs. Peart and sewed in Mrs.
Wilkinson's establishment. For beauty it
might adorn the head of a King, but no
earthly monarch's head would so well grace
the hat, as will that of the Hon. Geo. Q. 
Cannon, who arose to receive it, and for a
moment his feelings prevented him from
speaking, when, collecting himself, he re-
sponded in an appropriate address, given in
an eloquent and impressive style. He beg-
ged the audience to pardon his emotions—
expressed his gratitude for the many mani-
festations of kindness, respect and confi-
dence bestowed—said he esteemed this the
greatest honor he had ever received and
that he never so much realized his own un-
worthiness. He expressed his very great
happinness in being again in the midst of
the saints of God—said he had been absent on
many missions, but in many respects the
last had been different from all former ones.
It seemed almost like a visit to the spirits
in prison. He attributed all the success at-
tending his labors, to the blessing and over-
ruling providence of the Most High, the
manifestations of which, to him, had been
very strikingly visible. After many other
interesting remarks, he bore a powerful tes-
timony in favor of Pres. Young as a prophet
of God, and the acknowledged and legiti-
mate leader of this people. He said he
prayed God to bless the sisters, that from
his heart he thanked them for their kind
reception—prayed that God would keep us
in the path and, at last, crown us in his
Celestial Kingdom.
	A song, with accompaniment, by Miss
Minerva Richards followed.
	The following Address by Miss E. R.
Snow, was read by Mrs. E. Davis:
			WELCOME.
TO OUR DELEGATE, HON. GEORGE Q. CANNON.
MUCH HONORED SIR,
				We proudly welcome you,
As a true champion of the rights of man.
You fought the battle, and you fought it well.
You fought for justice and those sacred rights
Our country's Constitution guarantees
To loyal citizens.
				You fought to quell
Aggression's foaming tide—you fought for peace
The same for which our own brave Washington
Once battled—he in martial armor clad,
As standing on King George's claims, he strove
To gain the vict'ry o'er tyrannic sway;
That civil and religious freedom, might
Extend to us. He fought and won the prize.
You stood on "freedom's fair and happy soil,"
To which the oppress'd, from every land, resort:
And there opposed oppression? Yes, and that
Of blackest, direst, foulest element!
Oppression bred by hireling priests, who don
"Heaven's livery" for lucre's sake, and fed
And nursed by hungry politicians, who,
Eager of gain, would, Judas like, barter
Their country's honor, justice, freedom, all—
For what? To gratify their lust for gold.
	You, minus all the glittering pomp of spear,
And sword—all martial trappings, warrior's boast:
Went forth like David, when Goliath dared
The hosts of Israel, and confronted those 
Whose whetted teeth were ready to devour
Your people. You were armed with justice and
With truth.
			Altho' your adversaries had
Th' advantage in unequal numbers, God,
The Great Majority, was on your side:
And Brigham Young and his associates prayed
For you—not only, as the people pray
Within their churches and cathedrals, or,
At the domestic altar, where the pure
And fervent incense rises, but, they have prayed
In holy Order, as the Savior taught.
At their request, his ancient Twelve, to pray.
You knew "the race is not unto the swift,
Nor battle to the strong"—God was your trust.
	The ordeal past, like Daniel from the den—
As Shadrach, Meshek and Abednego
Went forth without the smell of fire upon
Their garments, you, unblemished have returned.
With grateful hearts, we bid you WELCOME HOME.

	Song by the Choir.
	A Welcome by Mrs. L. Greene Richards,
was read by the Secretary Mrs. E. S. Tay-
lor.
	Song, with organ accompaniment, by Miss
Lizzie Davis.
	Appropriate, instructive and cheering
addresses were then made by Presidents
Young, Smith and Wells—followed with
singing by the Choir.
	Refreshments consisting of cake, lem-
onade, candy, raisins, nuts and ice-cream
were served to the guests the number
amounting, probably, to three hundred, and
a season of general, convivial, sociability
followed, after which, the house was again
called to order and several short speeches
were made. Pres. Wells and Elder Taylor
passed high encomiums on the "Hat" and ex-
horted the people to energy and diligence
in home manufactures; Elder Cannon gave
humorous and interesting items of his ex-
perience while in Washington.
	Miss E. R. Snow proposed that, inasmuch
as all are fully satisfied with the labors of 
our Delegate, we guarantee to sustain him at 
the coming election; which was seconded
and unanimously carried, the brethren join-
ing in the vote.
	The evening passed away pleasantly and
at a quarter to eleven, the company was dis-
missed with prayer by Elder Angus Can-
non.		MRS. ELMINA S. TAYLOR, Sec.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE House of Commons, England, is
cooled by an air machine.
	OUR railroads are stripping the country of
timber for ties, etc., at the rate of 1,000,000
acres per annum.
	IT is now ascertained that the famous Cen-
tury plant, so beautiful in bloom, and yet so
rare, buds and flowers every sixteen years,
instead of once in a hundred years, as has
been long supposed.
	THERE were thirty-seven newspapers
published in the colonies on the commence-
ment of the Revolutionary War, in 1775with these began the Independence of the 
Nation. On the 1st of January, 1835, there
were 1,258 daily, semi-weekly, and weekly
newspapers issued. In 1870 there were
published in the United States 542 daily
and 4,425 weekly newspapers. The num-
ber of copies of the daily papers printed in
that year, reached, in round numbers, 800,
000,000.
	THE Domesday Book of Scotland, just 
presented to Parliament, shows that, within
a fraction, half the whole extent of Scotland
is held by 106 landowners, every one of
whom owns more than 20,000  acres. There
are 25 persons among these who own more
than 50,000 acres each. The Duke of South-
erland stands at the head of the list, having
a domain of 1,176,343 acres, in addition to
which, his wife, the Countess of Cromartie, is
the owner of 146,879 acres. The area of
their combined property is greater than that
of any county in England, except Yorkshire
and Lincolnshire.
	THE bridge to be constructed over the
Frith of Forth will be far the largest in the
world. According to the "London Builder,"
its height will be one hundred and fifty feet,
and the number of spans nearly one hun-
dred. The smaller span will be one hundred
and fifty feet wide, which is beyond the
average width of ordinary bridges; but the 
crowning marvel in the whole structure is 
the great span in the centre, which is to  be
fifteen hundred feet, or nearly one-third of
a mile—an extent unparalleled in any ex-
isting structure of the kind. The entire
cost of the bridge will be at least ten mil-
lion dollars.


AN Englishman, being asked how he
spelled saloon, replied, "With a hess, a hay,
a hell, two hoes, and a hen."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor
	CORNELLIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month; $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1874.


﻿SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	The comet, the only star that could "come
it” with a tail, has “gone from our gaze”
......The grist mill at American Fork, be-
longing to the estate of the late D. R.
Allen, was burned on the 15th ult.; loss
estimated at $7,000......Since the freight on
coal was raised on the U. P. R. R., quanti-
ties of that necessary article have been
hauled from the Weber mines on wagons
......At the Horticultural Exhibition, Miss
S. A. Walker received the prize to be given
to the young lady who should correctly
name the largest number of flowers......Two
parties of scientists, one bound for Pekin,
China, the other for Siberia, paid this city a
visit on their way. They are going to ob-
serve the transit of Venus next December
......The  "Clift House," corner of East
Temple, and 3rd South streets, has been
leased for the purpose of holding the Third
District Court in it, also for offices for the
U. S. officials......A dwelling was lately
shattered by lightning, in Brigham City......
Prof. C. J. Thomas in a public card thanks
all those who took part in the musical exer-
cises of the grand Jubilee for their “kind
and efficient aid”......J. P. Barnard while
returning to his home, six miles north of
Brigham City, fell from his wagon and died
instantly......The ladies should remember
the coming fair and be ready to contribute
their best productions to make it interest-
ing......A cheap excursion from this city to
Franklin, Idaho Ter. and intermediate pla-
ces is to take place in a few days.
		     LITERARY.
	A paper called the China News, printed
in the Chinese language has been started in
San Francisco......The late Lord Lytton, the 
English author, left three or four manu-
script plays which will shortly be published
......The "Worcester Palladium," started in
1834, is now edited and published by the 
daughters of the founder, under the title of
Helen M. Knowlton & Co.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	A new planet was discovered on the night 
of May 19, by M. Perrotin, at Toulouse.
This is the fourth discovered during the
present year......An exhibition is to be held
in the Palais Industrie, Paris, Sept. 15, of
all useful insects and their products, also of
all noxious insects and the evils they com-
mit.
			PERSONAL.
	Miss Susan E. Dickinson, a sister of Miss
Anna D., intends entering the field as a lec-
turer......[mogene, the daughter of N. P.
Willis, the poet—having married a spend
thrift, is now compelled to drudge along in
poverty......Miss Sallie A., daughter of Sam
Bowels of the Springfield Republican, hav-
ing married Mr. Hooker will soon take a
bridal tour to Europe......Gen. Beauregard
has accepted the office of Chief Engineer 
of the Argentine Republic. The induce-
ment was $25,000 a year......Mrs. Lincoln
is in Paris......Mrs. Mapleson, wife of the
director of Her Majesty's Opera, London, is
said to be the leading belle in London socie-
 ty......Mrs. Frances Ellen W. Harper is glv-
ing lectures in Illinois......Minister Jewell
is returning from St. Petersburg to assume
the duties of Postmaster General......Gen.
Garibaldi is said to be helpless through par-
alysis......Rev. H. W. Beecher is sixty-one
years old.
			ARTISTIC.
	The Academy of St. Luke—an art school
at Rome—has lately adopted a resolution to
admit women as pupils on equal terms with
men......Miss Thompson's now celebrated
picture "Roll Call at the Crimea" has be-
come the property of the Queen......Among
the exhibitors at the Royal Academy Eng-
land, this year, we noticed the names of
Miss Backhouse and Mrs. E. M. Ward, the
paintings of both artists were commended.
			GENERAL.
	The steamer "City of Guatemala," from
New York to Aspinwall, was lost off one of
the Bahamas; no lives lost......A fire in the
Boyce building, Chicago, on the 22nd ult,
destroyed property worth $250,000......
Henri Rochefort is in London......A fight
occurred between the Indians and Rangers
and U. S. cavalry on the 24th. The Ran-
gers and cavalry were repulsed with a loss
of over fourteen killed including the com-
mander of the cavalry......Another fire oc-
curred at Chicago on the 30th; loss 35,000.
The same day a fire at Danbury, Conn, de-
stroyed White's extensive fur factories......
Germany is trying to get the great powers
to recognize the Spanish Republic.......The
widow of ex-Congressman Mellish has been
appointed to a $900 clerkship in the Treas-
ury Department......On the 38th ult., the
upsetting of a kettle of boiling lard started
a fire which destroyed the landings of the
great Prince's dock at Liverpool; damage
estimated at $1,000,000......Five men were
killed by the Indians in New Mexico on the
21st......The Grangers have commenced
loading  new wheat, at San Francisco, for
the foreign market......Rev. Mr. Goodrich,
grandson of Noah Webster, died lately in
Switzerland......At Alama, Spain, a terri-
ble land slide destroyed the village; but few
escaped; 200 corpses were recovered.


TO HUSBANDS.
	Women, like children, do better when praised 
and encouraged than they can when censured
and found fault with. Husband, if you enjoy
life at home better when your wife is sweet
tempered and wears a smiling face than you do
under the influence of fretful words and a
cloudy countenance, don’t be afraid to speak
to her in a pleasant way and even to address
her with endearing words.  She should be
beautiful to you when her face bears the impress
of a cheerful and loving soul; and you need
not consider it beneath your dignity to speak
to her of these things. They are things of im-
portance. Cheerful words and looks are the
sunshine of the heart, and they enliven and
gladden it as the sunshine of summer does the
verdure of earth. If kindly encouraged to do
so, will not a wife learn to cherish a mild, sweet,
spirit that she may be pleasing to the husband
she loves, even if she were naturally given to
cross irritable ways? We think she certainly


would in ninety-nine, cases out of every hun-
dred. And she will do more even than this
for your comfort if you will but let her know
that you appreciate her efforts. Praise her en-
deavors to make a home-heaven for you, though
she may not succeed so very well at first, and
with renewed courage and strengthed faith in
her own abilities to please you, and confidence
in your appreciation of her efforts she will
never fail to study your wishes and to exe-
cute them as far as possible.


TO SUBSCRIBERS.
	Campbell & Patterson who were general
agents for the EXPONENT, previous to the pres-
ent Volume when we dropped their names,
have become bankrupt. Those who subscribed to
them for the current numbers, doubtless feel dis-
appointed at not receiving their late papers, but 
as we have received neither names nor money
we cannot tell who have subscribed till the af-
fairs of the firm are settled. While the EXPO-
NENT will thus suffer a serious loss, we intend
to make matters as satisfactory as possible to
those who subscribed to Campbell & Patter-
son while they were our agents, and if those
who hold receipts from them will send us the
same we will try and supply their full number
of papers.


THE GRAND JUBILEE.
	The twenty-seventh anniversary of Utah's
birthday was celebrated on the 24th ult., in 
this city, by a grand Jubilee or Sabbath School
children's concert, under the auspices of the
Deseret Sunday School Union. Though the af-
fair was projected over a year ago, the inter-
vening time has proved none too ample for
maturing the necessary arrangements to carry
out the original programme.
	The New Tabernacle, in which the Jubilee
was held, was richly and beautifully decorated
for the occasion. The collection of songs and ac-
companying music were original; and although,
perhaps, not perfect, should be a harbinger of
future home productions that will be better
suited to our Sabbath Schools, and, to them,
more interesting than any imported.
	Immense crowds from this, and Utah, Davis
and Weber counties collected at an early
hour, as participants and spectators, the greater
portion, of course, being juvenile singers. The
musical exercises, which was conducted by
Prof. C. J. Thomas was accomplished in a praise-
worthy manner, and was interspersed with 
speeches from President Young and other
prominent gentlemen. General satisfaction
seems to have been given, and the Jubilee may
be looked upon as a grand success.
	Much credit is due to Superintendent George
Goddard and other gentlemen and ladies, com-
prising the executive committee, for their in-
defatigable labors in consumating this mag-
nificent affair.


UTAH GAZETEER.
	We have received a copy of the "Gazeteer
of Utah and Salt Lake City Directory" edited
by Edward L. Sloan, Esq. It is of convenient
size, the binding seems to be durable and the
print clear. From a brief examination we
judge the contents to be well arranged and of
value to every one who is engaged in business
or who wishes for information concerning City
and Utah affairs. For sale at the Herald Of-
fice, price $5.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LAKE SIDE EXCURSION.
	We are requested by one of the committee to
state that the excursion to Lake Side, noticed in
our last has been postponed to the 25th of the
present month. This change in the time has
been thought advisable in consideration of the
large excursion advertised to go to Cache val-
ley soon, and also the violent storms so fre-
quent of late. By the 25th inst. the ladies hope
the weather will have become so settled that
the original programme can be carried out to
the enjoyment of all who participate.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	MATTIE GAYLORD, eminent as a lecturer, is
in town and expects to lecture this evening,
subject: Our girls, what shall we do with them."
	AS ANOTHER instance of Utah's resources a
fine quality of soapstone has been discovered
by Mr. Gibson. The deposits are said to be
within ten miles of this city and are very exten-
sive.
	E. W. EAST having declined the nomina-
tion of Justice of the Peace for the second pre-
cinct in this city, the committee have placed
George Crismon's name on the ticket for that
office.
	AN INGENIOUS invention for running street
cars with steam as a motive power, has been
introduced here recently. From the view we
had of the car and "steam dummy," as it
passed our office, on its trial trip, we think it
will be quite a success, as it seemed to be easily
controlled.
	THE PEOPLE of Box Elder County have
nominated Jonathan C. Wright for Represen-
tative to the Legislature and Samuel Smith
for Probate Judge. Davis County has nomi-
nated Anson Call and W. G. Smith for Rep-
resentatives and W. R. Smith for Probate
Judge. Both Counties support the People's
Territorial Ticket.
	IN ACCORDANCE with section four of the late
Act of Congress, better known as the "Poland
Bill," the Hon. Elias Smith Probate Judge of
Salt Lake County and Joseph E. Nounnan,
Clerk of the Third District Court, met at the
Court House on 23rd ult. and prepared a list of
persons to act as jurors. This list of names
with residences has been published in the 
daily papers.
	THE FIRE Brigade enlivened the evening of
the "Twenty-fourth" by a torchlight proces-
sion on a special train of flat open cars. They
lighted their torches at the northern limits of
the city from whence the train moved slowly
to the southern end, then returned to the Sta-
tion and run up to the Temple block where the
firemen got off and marched to the Ice Cream
Gardens to spend the remainder of the eve-
ning.
	DURING a late thunder storm, the Roman
Catholic church was struck by lightning, at-
tracted by the cross on the dome. Part of the
dome and one of the pillars that supported the
gallery, were shattered and some other damage
done. The lightning is supposed to have made
its exit through one of the windows. A gen-
tleman, who, with two ladies, one on either
side, was walking past at the time was knocked
down by the flash while the ladies were un-
touched.
	THE DESERET Horticultural Society, held
its first regular exhibition July 15th, 16th
and 17th, to the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms.
Such exhibitions enable professional garderners,
and others to present before the public the
choicest specimens of fruit, flowers, and other
productions that would be out of season when
the territorial fair is held in the autumn. The
display of fruits, flowers and vegetables this year
was fine; and among the attractions pre-
sented was a minature landscape, composed of
a variety of materials, the artistic work, chiefly
of Mrs. E. M. Barnum.
	A PUBLIC CAUCUS was held at Logan, Cache
Co., July 25th, C. C. Hurst was chosen chair-
man and J. A. Leishman, Secretary. A com-
mittee was appointed to nominate precinct
officers and consider the previous doings of the
county convention. The nominations of the
county caucus which included B. Young, Jr.
and W. B. Preston for Representatives in the
Legislature and M. D. Hammond for Probate
Judge were endorsed; also the Peoples Territo-
rial Ticket. Several nominations for precinct
officers were made after which the meeting was
adjourned.
	DELEGATES FROM the different precincts in
Weber county met in convention in Ogden on
the 18th ult., after effecting an organization,
with T. A. Brown as chairman, they adopted
a ticket of territorial and local officers to be vo-
ted for soon. Among the names were: Geo.
Q. Cannon for Congressional Delegate; John
Van Cott, Lewis S. Hills and John Robbery,
Commissioners to locate University lands;
Lorin Farr and Chas. W. Penrose, Representa-
tives to the Legislature; F. D. Richards, Pro-
bate Judge. The Circular published by the
People's Territorial Committee was read
and adopted by the Convention which re-
solved itself into a committee to co-operate
with the central People's Committee. These
items we gather from the Ogden Junction.
	SCHOOL TEACHERS and those who intend to
teach in this county should read the following
notice taken from the Des. News. Such ex-
aminations, we believe, tent greatly to improve
the grade of teachers and those who cannot
pass satisfactorily learn of their deficiencies
and what they must do to come up to the prop-
er standard:
	"A second examination for the school teach-
ers of Salt Lake County will be held in the
University Building, Salt Lake City, on Sat-
urday, Aug. 8th, commencing at 9 a.m. Teach-
ers should come prepared with pens, paper,
and ink, as the examination will be conduct-
ed primarily by manuscript, also with a cer-
tificate of good moral character.
	$2.50 will be charged each applicant, to de-
fray expenses.
		Board			O. H. RIGGS,
		   of				JOHN R. PARK,
	   Examination.		H. I. DOREMUS.
	THOMAS WILLIAMS, Esq., widely and favor-
ably known in the community died unexpect-
edly on the 17th of last month. Early in the
afternoon he went home to his dinner and
while seated at table suddenly commenced to
vomit blood. After throwing up considerable
blood he lay on the sofa to rest but was very
weak and apparently unable to answer when
addressed. Soon after his eyes were closed in
death. A coroner's inquest held the same eve-
ning, rendered the verdict that he died from
the bursting of a blood vessel. He was born
at Newport, Mon, England. His life was such
that he won the love and esteem of all who
knew him and it could be said that his friends
were as numerous as his acquaintances. He
was a member of the church High Council,
Treasurer of the general Z. C. M. I., member
of the City Council, part proprietor, and one
of the Managers of the Theatre. The obsequies
held at the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, were
very largely attended and the funeral proces-
sion comprised over eighty vehicles.


FLORAL HINTS.
				   —
	TO REVIVE WILTED CUTTINGS.—Hearth
and Home says, "mix three or four drops of
spirits of camphor with an ounce of water
and keep their stems in this fluid for half a
day or more, in a dark place, till they have
entirely recovered."
	TRAINING THE WISTARIA.—Wistarias are
naturally climbing vines, but are readily
trained into almost any form that may suit
one's fancy. I have a plant trained as a
dwarf shrub; it is four feet high and about
five feet across the branches, there being
upon it at this time 271 drooping clusters
or racemes, each nearly a foot long, of bluish
purple flowers. It is not difficult to train the
Wistaria as a self-supporting shrub, it being
only necessary to pinch off the ends of the
young shoots in summer, thereby restrict-
ing its growth to prescribed limits. This
constant checking of growth in summer
causes a rapid increase in fruit, or fruiting
spurs upon all the branches, the result of
which appears in the profusion of flowers
the ensuing season. If any one has a Wis-
taria of any variety or species which fails to
bloom satisfactorily, they have only to ap-
ply the "pinching" process to correct any
tardiness in this respect.—R. N. Yorker.
	STRONG FERTILIZER.—It represents the
fertilizing principles of at least one hundred
times its weight of concentrated animal
manure, and supplies to the plants nitrogen,
phosphorus, potash, sulphur, and iron in
a completely soluble state. The compound
consists of 400 parts of nitrate of ammonia;
200 parts biphosphate of ammonia; 250
parts nitrate of potash; 50 parts muriate
of ammonia; 60 parts sulphate of lime, and
40 parts sulphate of iron. These ingredi-
ents are pulverized and mixed. One dram
of the powder (about a teaspoonful) is then
dissolved in a quart of water and a wine-
glassful of the solution given two or three
times a week, in accordance with the health
and luxuriance of the vegitation.
	The plants may be placed in any kind of
earth, however poor, even pure sand, or
may not be potted at all. It is stated that
certain flowers, the fuchsia, for example, may
be cultivated without earth by simply plac-
ing the stalk in a jar, at the bottom of which
is an inch or so of water, just sufficient to
cover the ends of the roots. To the fluid a
proportional quantity of the fertilizer is
added, as above specified, once in eight days.
The foliaceous development of plants treated
with the substance is said to be truly won-
derful, and yet the rapid growth of the
leaves does not interfere with the most lux-
uriant flowering. To this we may add that
quite recently we have tried a compound
hastily composed of the majority of the sub-
stances above detailed, merely as an experi-
ment, on a small and sickly fuchsia. The
plant was drooping and little else remained
than a half dry stalk. After two applica-
tions of the fertilizer, its effect was appar-
ent, and at the end of ten days, during
which probably half a pint of the solution
had been supplied to the earth, new shoots
had sprung out, leaves formed, and the en-
tire plant became perfectly loaded down with
buds.—Scientific American.


SPEAKING of the half-naked statue of
Washington, which cost $50,000, in the
East Capitol Park, Grace Greenwood wittily
says that his outstretched arms point re-
proachfully towards the glass cases in the
Patent Office, where hang his much-desired
habiliments.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


OVER AND OVER AGAIN.

Over and over again,
	No matter which way I turn,
I always find in the Book of Life
	Some lesson I have to learn.
I must take my turn at the mill,
	I must grind out the golden grain,
I must work at my task with a resolute will,
Over and over again.

Over and over again
	The brook through the meadow flows,
And over and over again
	The ponderous mill-wheel goes.
Once doing will not suffice,
	Though doing be not in vain,
And a blessing failing us once or twice.
	May come if we try again.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
					—
	Entertaining Visitors.—It has always seemed to
me that the social relations of civilized people, and
especially of women, were strange inconsistencies.
A woman, or a company of women, about to visit
a neighbor for an afternoon must send word a day
or two beforehand, that there may be previous
cooking, baking and fussing, or be left alone in the
parlor to entertain themselves as best they can,
while the one with whom they intended to have a
social chat is bustling about in the kitchen in a
great heat and hurry to prepare as many and as rich
and costly cakes and nicknacks for them as they
could prepare for her; not that she cares for such
things herself—she would much rather have a little
time for rest and sociability; not that she thinks
her visitors have come for the purpose of getting
something to eat (though there are many who, tak-
ing advantage of social customs, visit for that very
purpose), but because it is a foolish, sinful practice
among people, to see which can outdo the other in
such matters. If word is received by a family that
near and dear friends or relatives from a distance
are about to visit them, instead of planning and ar-
ranging their work so as to have time for conversa-
tion and intellectual communion, the whole household
is thrown into a great worry and excitement in re-
gard to the furnishing and arranging of rooms, and
to the quality, quantity and style of edibles that
shall be put upon their table; and instead of being
in a pleasant, social mood to receive their guests
when they arrive, perhaps after a tiresome journey,
they are worn out with their exertions to make an
outside show that, had they the time, they have no
disposition nor ability for social intercourse, and
the visit that was looked forward to with many
anticipations of pleasure and profit, proves to be a
sad disappointment to one party, and a burden and
vexation to the other.
	I do not wish to be understood as advocating
slackness or indifference in regard to these things;
so far as is consistent with our duties and circum-
stances, we should attend to the personal wants and
comforts of our guests; but the concocting of rich
articles of food, that were better never to be eaten,
to the exclusion of pleasant cheer, the scrupulous-
ness in regard to style in preparing and furnishing
rooms to the exclusion of the home-feeling, for
the sake of not being outdone by our neighbors, is
altogether wrong, and productive of much evil.
Besides the injury done our social natures, there is
too apt to be. on such occasions, an overtaxing of
the strength of housekeepers, wives and mothers.
—R. N. Yorker.

	Glue Pot.—Nothing about a house is more use-
ful than a glue pot, so many things may be repaired
by means of it. If the knobs on the bureau
drawers become loose they can be speadily fastened
again by the timely application of a little glue. If
the thread of the screw has become worn put on
some glue, and then wind on some flax or tow if
you have it, or a soft rag, then put on more glue
and fasten on the knob and it is all right. If pieces
of veneering fall off the furniture they can be re-
placed by means of glue and a feather, and many
other things can be mended that make quite a say-
ing in a household.


Removing Glass Stoppers.—The easiest way to
take out a stopper which has become fixed in the
neck of a bottle is to reverse the motion given to it
when putting it in, that is to knock the stopper
from right to left. In most instances when a stop-
per is fixed, without the intervention of an adhe-
sive substance, it is by turning it as one would
drive a screw. The direction is almost invariably
from  left to right, and thus a thread is formed
which is easier to follow backwards than to break.
The trouble with which the removal of stoppers is
usually attended must form my apology for intro-
ducing a suggestion of so little apparent importance.
—Can. Med. Record.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	EFFECTS OF INSUFFICIENT SLEEP.—The
following if true, and we do not see why it
may not be, shows plainly that it is unwise
for anyone to deprive themselves of the full
amount of sleep nature will grant them:
	A writer on the subject of sleep, mentions
a curious case of a literary man, who, for
nearly a year, while intently engaged in a
favorite study, restricted his period of rest
to four hours a day, and frequently less. At
the end of that time the overtasking of his
mental powers was manifested in a curious
way. He told the physician that, though
still able to maintain a connected line of
reasoning, he found that as soon as he at-
tempted to record his ideas on paper the
composition turned out to be simply a tissue
of arrant nonsense. When in the act of
writing, his thoughts flowed so rapidly that
he was not conscious of the disconnected
nature of what he was writing; but as soon
as he stopped to read it over he was aware
how completely he had misrepresented his
conceptions. If the language happened to
be at all intelligible, it was sure to have no
relation to the ideas he wished to express.
Thus, wishing to obtain a book from a friend,
he found that, instead of the request, he
had written the prayer of Socrates, as given
by Plato.

	AVOIDING A CHILL.—Multitudes of wo-
men lose health, and even life every year
by busying themselves until warm and
weary, and then throwing themselves on a
bed or sofa without covering, or in a room
without a fire, or by removing their outer
garments after a long walk, and changing 
their dress while in a state of perspiration.
If you have to walk and ride both, do the rid-
ing first, and on returning go to a warm 
room, and keep on all your wraps until your
forehead is dry.

	FELONS AND RUSTY NAIL-WOUNDS.--El-
der Evans, the Shaker, says:—For the past
ten years we have treated felons with hot
water, and with unerring success. No cut-
ting, no blistering, no anything, but immer-
sing the finger, hand, or even the whole
arm if necessary, in water as hot as can be
borne, until the pain is gone and the core is
loosened and drawn from the bone. When
rusty nails have produced wounds, the same
course has been pursued. If on the hand
or foot, keep it in hot water.

	HEALTHFUL WALKING.—Serious think-
ing, when we are walking, or taking any
other exercise, very soon fatigues us; but if
we give ourselves up to amusing thoughts,
or the conversation of agreeable and intelli-
gent friends, the exercise is restorative.
Those exercises which give motion to the
body, and at the same time amuse the mind,
such as cricket, boating, bowls or tennis are
particularly serviceable. In taking exercise
for health, it is always desirable to have an
object in view; such as a call at the house of


a friend, to see some beauty of nature, a
prospect, a tree, a stream, or some castle,
ruin, nay, even a modern shop, or rail via-
duct; the man in search of health should
not "take a walk" merely to take a walk.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WHAT requires more philosophy than
taking things as they come? Parting with
things as they go.

	WISCONSIN wont let clergymen kiss the
bride any more, and fees have jumped from
fifty cents to five dollars.

	RETIRE to bed early and rise early, thus
saving lamp oil and doctor's fees, and im-
proving your complexion.

	A VERMONT preacher who sarcastically
asked his congregation to pray for the editor
of the local paper, recently, had a bill sent
to him for thirteen years' subscription to
that paper and $300 worth of religious no-
tices.

	THE venerable Dr. Moffat, Dr. Living-
stone's father-in-law, recently delivered a
lecture in London on the illustrious traveler.
Dr. Moffat alluded particularly to his natu-
ral inquiring mind, which manifested itself
from a very early age, to the peculiarly high
class of literature which he studied, and to
the fact that he, like the lecturer, never
read novels or went to a theatre. The char-
acter of Livingstone was, he said, ever sim-
ple, and this was a source of great strength
throughout his whole life.

	TWENTY-ONE years ago, a daughter of
Pete Hawk, Esq. of Stroudsburg, Pa., was
bitten by a mad dog. Although cattle bit-
ten by the same dog were seized with hy-
drophobia, the girl did not show any symp-
toms of the disease. She grew to woman-
hood, and was married. Recently, as she
was raising a glass of water to her lips, a
shudder ran through her, and in a few min-
utes she was seized with hydrophobia in its
worst form. A number of physicians were
called, but they could do nothing for her.
She died in great agony.

	GIRLS, let us tell you a stubborn truth.
No young woman ever looked so well to a
sensible man as when dressed in neat, plain,
modest attire, without a single ornament
about her person. She looks then as though
she possessed worth in herself, and needed
no artificial rigging to enhance her value.
If a young woman would spend as much
time in cultivating her temper, and cher-
ishing kindness, meekness, gentleness,
mercy, and other qualities, as most of them
do in extra dress and ornaments to increase
their personal charms, she would at a glance,
be known among a thousand. Her charac-
ter would be read in her countenance.

	THE argument against the higher educa-
tion of women upon physical grounds is be-
ing vigorously and most successfully at-
tacked. The statistics of the colleges, open
to women show that hard study, even dur-
ing the early period of womanhood, does
not tell in weakened health of the gradu-
ates whose health is as a rule better than
that of women who never attempted to
cope intellectually with men. In the cur-
rent number of the "Popular Science
Monthly," Dr. Van Walker has an article
on the "Genisis of Woman," his conclusion
being that the young woman is as able to
sustain uninterrupted physical and intellect-
ual work as the young man.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
	THE UNITED ORDER.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	You extend a general invitation to your
readers, to exercise their pens for exchange
of ideas through your columns. I do not
know whether the subject now in my mind
may be wisely presented, or acceptable but
my pen is prompted by a sincere interest to
learn further through the response of others.
My mind has dwelt much upon the United
Order, organized last spring in St. George,
and since accepted by many of our settle-
ments. It has interested me more than any
other principle of our doctrine; and has been
a continual feast for reflection, an encour-
agement, a gladness, and has shone like a
clear light upon many passages of scripture
heretofore not understood by me, O! how
thankful we should be that our spirits bear
witness to the truth of so important and
joyful an advancement of the work in which
we are engaged.
	It seems a first principle of our nature to
desire explanation of everything new pre-
sented to our understandings. Does the
parent always so gratify the child when re-
questing the performance of some duty?
Not always, prompt obedience is the parental
exaction. Could the elder, who baptized
us, tell us then, all the degrees of knowledge
we would pass through in the future; what
new laws we might have made known to 
us? No, we embraced what we then were
taught and understood, expecting more to
follow for our acceptance. Why should we
argue that if we cannot see the wisdom of a
requirement, it cannot be of imperative im-
portance? I call it weakness, folly. Be-
cause a beginner cannot see through the
higher branches of mathematics, or the
wonderful system of astronomy, is no reason
those systems are not true or that the teacher
does not comprehend them. We have been
told, often, that great events await us sooner
than we will be prepared for them. Oh!
let us not waste the precious "last days" in
unavailing controversy with the truth of
the Bible and latter-day revelations, speak-
ing clearly unto our spirits but let us hasten
to toil in the work divine. Indecision,
watching by her faintly glimmering taper,
sees not the wave washing beneath the rock
on which she stands. Christ said, "Blessed
are they that have not seen, and yet have
believed." How inconsistent we are! We
pray for every temporal blessing—for crowns
of glory and lives immortal—we want even
the privilege of dwelling in the presence of
the King of kings and Lord of lords; and,
finally, throw in ourselves and our earthly
all, as a mite in exchange, thinking we will
be only too glad to do so. But on being
taken at our word, we swell with the con-
templation of our own importance and free
agency, and independently withdraw our
earthly all, and ourselves too, perhaps. So
much do we make idols of these things
which perish in the using; these beautiful,
shining, bubble-beads, that we cannot loose
our grasp on them, even to take our heav-
enly crowns.
	How many later converts have repined
because they never had the privilege of
sharing in the early persecutions endured
by the Saints, "I would like to be tried and
proven." Well, be proven in this matter.
"O! but this is different, I don't mean any-
thing of this kind, I mean something soul-
trying, something between us and our ene-
mies; I don't want to be tried by my own
people, that isn't the thing." Well, fellow-
saint, if you'll keep to the Mormon pro-
gramme, you'll have all the outside persecu-
tion you want, and perhaps the martyr's 
crown, too; for the struggle between Satan
and God's saints will last till the Almighty
choose to hold the rebels still, by his strong
right hand.
	Why do the world so hate us? Not be-
cause they consider prosperity, power and
virtue hateful; for the whole world is crowd-
ing to grasp the first two and when they
wish to appear their best, assume the third.
Not one of our enemies but would leap
gladly to the eminence of power our leader
possesses; yet they hate him for their own
lack of power, and because he is a man to
conquer circumstances.
	It is written that our Savior must be re-
tained in the heavens. "until the restitution
of all things." If we we look with desire
for His coming and to hear the welcome
words, "Well done thou good and faithful 
servant;" should we not be swifter to do
His expressed will, to be ready ourselves,
have our houses in order and our lamps well
filled? Among those desiring the blessings
of Abraham, how many consider the great
example of his life and that we must imi-
tate his example, to the extent of our abili-
ties, to purchase or obtain similar blessings?
I have no doubt he lived this same law. I
can think of no more heroic, pathetic or
beautiful example of entire trust in, and
obedience to God than the offering up, in
sacrifice, of his human heart's best treasure,
his beloved son. That act stands a perpet-
ual monument of the sublime and entire de-
votion of his whole being to the will of his
Father; even Him who, in the meridian of
time gave His only begotten Son a sacrifice
for the sins of the world. Who were they
He died to save? His brothers and sisters,
children of the same Heavenly Father. O!
the beauty, the grandeur, the salvation of
faith and obedience, of self-abnegation! By
it the height and end are reached. Christ
prayed in his last prayer on earth that we
might be one. How much that prayer re-
veals to us. If he is our elder brother, and
this earth is to be his kingdom, temporally
as well as spiritually; then is it easy to see
how we will become heirs and joint heirs
with Christ, if we are members in this
United Order. Through this, our children
may become legal heirs to this kingdom's 
temporal and spiritual riches. I rejoice in
the thought that through our united spirits
and labors—when the calamities of wars,
famines, pestilences and other horrors sweep
the earth—our little ones will have legal
right to be shielded by the united strength
of our fathers, husbands and brothers; and
fed from the great harvest house of the
Saints. I would rather my little ones had a
share in this "Order" than in any other In-
surance Co. in the world. And in my hum-
ble but sincere judgement, no Mormon woman
should so dilute her faith, as to give herself
in marriage to any man opposed to this Or-
der. As a gossip once said unconsciously,
(upon a different theme) "I'd rather die an
old maid and be a ministering angel and
carry news." Let us be united and inde-
pendent of what may be said or done against
us; fearless and not ashamed to follow God's
revelations to us. If we yield to the enemy
he is only half our friend, we are in thrall-
dom and weaken our stronghold of defense.
	8th Ward, City.			A. J. C.


A THIRTEEN year old girl of Belvidere,
Vt., took care of a sugar orchard of eighty-
five trees, all alone, last spring.

	NEVER nod to an auctioneer unless you
wish either to buy or be sold.


A MOTHER'S TACT.

	The mother was sewing busily, and Josie,
sitting on the carpet beside her, and provid-
ed with rounded scissors and some old
magazines, was just as busy cutting out
pictures.
	"It would litter up the carpet so," said
Aunt Martha who had come in for a cosy
chat. Mamma knew this; but knew, too,
that a minute's work would make all right
again, and Josie was happy.
	All went well till the little boy found that
he had cut of a leg of a horse he considered
a marvel of beauty. It was a real disap-
pointment and grief to the little one.
	"Mamma, see!" and half crying he held
it up.
	"Play he's holding up one foot," said the
mother quickly.
	"Do real horses, mamma?"
	"Oh, yes, sometimes."
	"I will."
	And sunshine chased away the cloud that
in another minute would have rained down.
	It was a little thing, the mother's answer,
but the quick sympathy, ready tact, made
all right. The boy's heart was comforted,
and he went on with his play, while the
mother sewed quietly, with no jar of nerves
or temper, and auntie's call lost none of its
pleasantness.
	"I'm tired of cutting pictures, mamma,"
said Josie, after a while.
	"Well, get your horse-wagon, and play
those bits of paper are wood, and you're go-
ing to bring me a load. Draw it over to
that corner by the fire, and put them into
the kindling-box. Play that's the wood-
house."	
	Pleased and proud, the little teamster
drew load after load, till all the papers were
picked up, without ever thinking he was
doing anything but play.
	"Well, I declare," said Aunt Martha;
"old as I am, I've learned one thing to-day,
and I wish Emily would come in and take
lessons, I do."
	Mrs. Wade looked up in surprise.
	"What do you mean?"
	"Well, I spent yesterday afternoon over
there," (the old lady had a weakness for
visiting, and was "auntie" to people gener-
ally), and things were in a snarl and high-
de-low all the time—starting with less than
Josie's given you a dozen times since I've
sat here. I've had a good talk with you, and
you've given me pleasant thoughts for a
week to come; over there we couldn't hear
ourselves speak. It was, 'Don't do that,'
and 'You naughty child,' spill and scratch,
and break and tumble, scold and slap, half
the time. Emily means well; she loves her
children, and never spares herself sewing
for them, or nursing them when they're
sick. She has a world of patience some
ways, but she don't seem to have any facul-
ty for managing them. Well, I'll send her
over here, only I won't let on why;" and the
old lady rolled up her knitting; then the
bell rang for tea.
	A little tact, springing from thoughtful
love, how good it is.


A LITTLE child in Georgia recently saved
its foolish father from suicide. Disgusted
with his poverty, though he seems to have
had good health, a Mr. Meredith, of Cusseta,
loaded a double-barreled shot-gun and put
the muzzle to his head. His child ran up
as he fired and knocked the weapon to one
side. The man's life was saved, and he
should live to work, if only for the sake of
that little child.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	The following extract is from an able article in
the Sacramento Record reviewing Professor Gold-
win Smith's arguments against woman suffrage:
"The truth is, that this slurring way of speaking
about female judgment is merely impertinence, nei-
ther warranted by experience, justified by the rules
of candid discussion, nor worthy of a logical scien-
tific reasoner. The man who can deliberately as-
sert that any political judgment reached by any
class of women is likely to be more dangerous,
more imbecile or more fatuous, than the judgment
reached by our western farmers in regard to the
railroad question and the currency, is simply inca-
pable of drawing fair deductions from the facts of
history. But there is no reason whatever for be-
lieving that women would make great blunders in
politics; and that they would war upon man's fa-
vorite ideas; or that, supposing them to have a ma-
jority, the men would revolt against their decisions.
In the Territory of Wyoming, where the experi-
ment of woman suffrage has had a fair trial, it is
found that the influence of women in politics is
just what its advocates have maintained that it
would be, elevating and purifying. It is not found
that the men rebel against the efforts of the women
to reform social abuses, but that they are converted
to their views, and finally aid them in carrying out
the reform sought. And this is the natural result
of according women equal political rights. We do
not anticipate any marked improvement in Govern-
ment from such an extention of the suffrage, be-
cause we know that women are incapacitated, by
long exclusion, for a really active and interested
participation in political agitation at the beginning.
But they possess at least as much intelligence as
men; and they are infinitely purer and more refined.
They will therefore affect the lower phases of pol-
itics first. They will elevate elections above the
plane of the rum-mill, the rowdy and the striker.
They will introduce to the polls not only quiet con-
duct but decent language. They will, perhaps un-
conciously, infuse the filthy pool of politics with a
stream of cleanliness, which will tend continually
to purify its murkiness and render it sweeter and
less objectionable."


WHAT IT IS TO BE A WIDOW.

	"I think it must be a jolly thing to be a
young widow!" I heard this remark the
other day, in a group of laughing girls. I
think I remember saying such a thing my-
self in my girlish times. Do you know,
girls, what it is to be a widow? It is to be
ten times more open to comment and criti-
cism than any demoiselle possibly could be.
It is to have men gaze  as you pass, first at
your black dress and then at your widow's
cap, until your sensitive nerves quiver un-
der the infliction. It is to have one ill-na-
tured person say, "I wonder how long she
will wait before she marries again?" and
another answers, "Until she gets a good
chance, I suppose." It is now and then to
meet the glance of real sympathy, generally
from the poorest and most humble woman
you meet, and feel your eyes fill at the to-
ken, so rare, that is, so unlooked for. It is
to have your dear fashionable friends con-
sole you after the following fashion: "Oh,
well! it is a dreadful loss. We know how
you feel it, dear." And in the next breath,
"You will be sure to marry again, and your
widow's cap is very becoming to you." But 
it is more than this to be a widow. It is to 
miss the strong arm you have leaned upon,
the true faith which you knew could never
fail you, though all the world might forsake 
you. It is to miss the dear voice that ut-
tered your name with tenderness that none
other could give it. It is to hear no more
the well-known footsteps that you flew
gladly once to meet. To see no more the


face that to your adoring eyes seemed as the
face of, the angels of God; to feel no more
the twining arms that folded you so loving-
ly; the dear eyes, that looking into your
own, said plainly whatever it seemed to
others, yours was the fairest face earth held
for him. It is to fight with a mighty sor-
row as a man fights with the waves that
overwhelm him, and to hold it at arm’s
length for awhile, only to have—in the
hours of loneliness and weakness—the storm
roll over you, while—poor storm driven dove
—you see no heaven.


FLOWERS.

	THE contented man is never poor; the
discontented never rich.
	Instruction is to the human intellect, what
cultivation is to the soil.
	ADVICE, like snow, the softer it falls, the
longer it dwells upon, and the deeper it
sinks into, the mind.
	A TEACHER who is attempting to teach
without inspiring the pupils with a desire
to learn is hammering on cold iron.—Hor-
ace Mann.
	A SANCTIFIED heart is better than a sil-
ver tongue; a heart full of grace is better
than a head full of notions; a man may be
a great scholar, and yet be a great sinner.
	FAITH IN WORK.—We should not for-
sake a good work because it does not ad-
vance with a rapid step. Faith in virtue,
truth, and Almighty goodness, will save us
alike from rashness and despair.
	APPLICATION.—It cannot be too deeply
impressed upon the mind, that application is
the price to be paid for mental acquisitions,
and that it is as absurd to expect them with-
out it, as to hope for a harvest where we
have not sown the seed.
	IT is a good and safe rule to sojourn in
every place as if you meant to spend your
life there, never omitting an opportunity of
doing a kindness or speaking a true word,
or making a friend. Seeds thus sown by the
wayside often bring forth an abundant har-
vest.
	THE book, as a companion, is always at
your service, always willing and pliable.
You meet with men of service, good think-
ers, good speakers, and you do not know
how to draw them out; but a book is always
open to your wish, and shuts when you de-
sire, something which your professor might
not do. In saying this for books, I do not
forget that they are merely secondary.


An intelligent and sparkling-eyed boy, of
ten summers, sat upon the steps of his fa-
ther’s dwelling, deeply absorbed in a highly
embellished but pernicious book, calculated
to poison and degrade the young mind.
His father, approaching, at a glance discov-
ered the character of the book. 
	“George, what have you there?”
	The little fellow looking up with a con-
fused air, promptly gave the name of the
author. The father gently remonstrated,
pointed out to him the danger of reading
such books, and left him with the book clos-
ed by his side.
	In a few moments the father discovered a
light, and on enquiring the cause, it was as-
certained that the little fellow had consigned
the pernicious book to the flames.
	“My son, what have you done?”
	“Burnt that book, papa.”
	“How came you to do that, George?”


"Because, Papa, I believed you knew bet-
ter than I what was for my good."
	"But would it not have been better to have
kept the leaves for other purposes, rather
than destroy them?"
	"Papa, might not others have read and
been injured by them?"

	LET us cherish good humor and Chris-
tian cheerfulness. Let us endeavor to shake
off that sulleness which makes us so uneasy
to ourselves, and to all who are near us.
Anger, fretfulness, and peevishness prey
upon the tender fibers of our frame, and in-
jure our health.


DOCTOR CROCKWELL.
	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases, 
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untlmely ad-
vent.	
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward Fourth
East St, Salt Lake City.  

				H. DINWOODEY
Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three 
				storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2  BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,
			Where he is prepared to do a 
	WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase. 

				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothlng shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
thc followlng liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume: 
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, -	-	-	-	-	18.00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 	-	-	-	-	-	26.00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of  
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34.00
30 copies, l year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48.00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole  or half year. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address. 
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
 
VOL. 3.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, August 15, 1874.				No. 6.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SHALL FEMALE students be admitted to
the Andover Theological Seminary? is the
question being discussed by those interes-
ted.
	FOUR YEARS ago, the first lady Superin-
tendent of Schools in Iowa, was elected.
This year, only fifteen have attained to that
office. This is encouraging.
	A MAN AT Grass Valley, named Wm.
Hopkins, tried to scald his wife but badly
scalded himself instead. He doubtless feels
somewhat prejudiced, just now against the
“Water-cure” system.
	THE DAMAGE done by the storm in Mora-
via was far greater than the earlier estimates
indicated. Two towns and eleven villages
were devastated by the destroying elements,
Troops have been sent there by the Govern-
ment to assist the survivors.
	AN EASTERN paper says: “Three Bishops,
in the Methodist Episcopal Church in the
United States, advocate and defend woman
suffrage.”  That may do for a beginning but
we think our Christian friends are rather
slow. In Utah, a bishop that does not de-
fend woman suffrage is, we believe, an ex-
ception to the rule.
	A PHOTOGRAPHER IN Paris has been fined
100 francs for publishing the ex-Prince Im-
perial’s portrait. But a few years since the
ex-Prince seemed to be the destined ruler
of France and was educated with that idea;
now he is an exile and dare not set foot in
his native country. Who can envy such
fluctuating greatness!
	THE FOLLOWING is another proof of wo-
man's skill when properly exercised: One
of the ladies employed as a counter in the
national bank redemption division of the
Treasury Department discovered among the
notes sent for redemption one of the coun-
terfeit five hundred dollar bills originally
discovered at the Treasury Department
about a year ago. It was so perfect that
several of the most experienced clerks in
the Treasurer's office thought it was genu-
ine, but upon reference to the engraving
and printing division, it was, after an ex-
amination, pronounced a counterfeit. The
note will be branded and returned to the
national bank from which it was received.
	THERE HAS been so much said about the
degredation of the Mormon women of Utah
—who have, from the first, voted in Church
affairs; and whose fathers, husbands and
brothers extended to them the elective
franchise when it was an almost untried ex-
periment—that we feel interested in noting
the gradual conversion of the different re-
ligious societies, to the doctrine of “Woman
Suffrage.” Lately the Christian denomi-
nation, in New England, adopted the fol-
lowing resolution, by a vote of twenty-
three against nine.
	Resolved, That this New England Chris-
tian Convention regard the movement of
the Women of New England, for the exten-
sion  Suffrage to women, as a new appli-
cation of Christian principles to the social
relations, as a measure demanded by the
highest considerations of right and justice,
and essential to the publice welfare.
	ANOTHER TERRIBLE fire devastated
about sixty acres of buildings in Chicago,
on the 24th ult. Among the buildings
burned were the Post Office and quite a
number of prominent churches, hotels and
fine residences. The loss of property was
immense. Through the precaution of the
Postmaster there, the mail matter was re-
moved to a place of safety. This is no small
item if, as it is reported, "One-eighth of
the Post-Office business transacted in the
United States is done in Chicago.”
	“THE UNIVERSITY of Kansas has just 
graduated two young ladies. One received
a diploma as Bachelor of Science, the other
a diploma as Bachelor of Arts."   We used
to think it somewhat odd that the title of
Bachelor of Arts, Music, Science, etc. should
be conferred indiscriminately, whether the
honored recipient was married or single.
But that is nothing since a young lady can
sign the formidable initials, B. A, or B. S.
after her name. We are highly in favor of
young ladies striving to attain to the high-
est scholastic honors and hope that the pro-
gressive spirit of the age will introduce
more appropriate titles than some now in
use.
	TIMES HAVE not been hard only in Utah.
The following clipping from the Stocktou
Leader does not present a very cheerful
prospect for many “down East.”—The dull
Winter has in the east been succedeed by a
dull Summer. A correspondent writing
from Philadelphia gives a picture which is
true of all the Eastern cities:
	“Times are hard here—what this winter
will bring forth, I know not. One thing is
certain, and that is, those who exhausted
their little savings last winter, trusting to
summer work to replenish their stock, have
been badly disappointed and must meet the
next cold season less well prepared than they
did last. I know that carpenters, painters,
and bricklayers have made, so far, this sum-
mer not over half time, taking the trades
as a whole. One painting firm, usually em-
ploying eighty or ninety men, has this sea-
son had no trouble in filling their jobs with
twenty-five or thirty and other trades in
the building line are no doubt as badly off.
There is much public building work too, or
it would be worse. They say that the cen-
tennial contractors have employed Italians
at $1.25 per day, refusing men who wanted
$1.75 or $2.”
	THE ALANTHUS, or as it is commonly
called, the “tree of Paradise,” has been
used for quite a number of years in Utah,
as a shade tree. Its rapid growth and ele-
gant foliage doubtless rendered it popular
at first but these qualities, we have long
thought, do not compensate for its scanty
foliage and disagreeable odor when in bloom.
In a previous number we re-published an
article, in which the writer claimed to have
been externally poisoned through coming in
contact with the foliage while cutting one
down. And we now give an extract from
a communication by a physician to an east-
ern paper, as to its poisonous qualities.
"Several years ago it became my duty to
attend, professionally, a family of three per-
sons. This family had used for some time
water from a well in which the Ailanthus
had shed its blossoms. The taste, so charac-
teristic of the active principle of this tree,
was imparted to the water. The several
members of this family suffered severely,
the symptoms resembling somewhat those
of slow poison by strychnine. They discon-
continued the use of this water and slowly
recovered, which recovery started from the
day they began using water from a differ-
ent well."
	THE FOLLOWING account, showing how
"Boss" Tweed is treated in prison, may be
interesting as showing the difference be-
tween rich and poor convicts. There is one
thing, however, we like in it; that is the
devotion of his sons to their father, even in 
his disgrace.—
	"Mr. Tweed is waited upon every day
by his sons, who bring him wines, liquors,
and all the delicacies of the season, of which
he always has an assortment. James Carew,
the hero of the bogus express company, who
was sentenced a few months ago, performs
the duty of valet for him. He blacks his
boots, keeps his room in order, and in gen-
eral makes him comfortable. The furniture
of the "dismal cell" that overlooks the river
to the east is of French walnut. There is a
cabinet washstand, a desk and three or four
chairs, all of the same handsome material.
The ordinary prison bed consists of a straw
mattress covered with one sheet. Mr. Tweed
is forced to lie on a spring bed with two 
mattresses, a hair bolster and two feather
pillows. There is a patchwork quilt and a
white countepane. A green rep sofa, which
when ordered, was found to be too large to
be taken into his room, stands just outside,
and serves as a convenient seat to lounge
upon, reminding his callers of the old ele-
gance that met their eyes while they were
cooling their heels in the ante-room of the
famous brown-stone building on Broadway.
A selection of standard books adorn the
shelves of a commodious library and the
floor is nicely carpeted."
	ON THE morning of the 5th, the steamer
"Pat. Rogers," with her entire cargo of
cotton, was burned near Aurora. About
twenty persons lost their lives, besides sev-
eral badly burned. The following vivid
description of the scene seems almost too 
terrible to read.—"The negro crew behaved
badly, hurrying of the boat before there was
any imminent danger, and monopolizing
all available means of escape. Many who
escaped to shore were disfigured for life by
the flames that blew strongly in that direc-
tion from the boat. Miss Rowden, of Louis-
ville, jumped from the boat toward the Indi-
ana shore, and hungry tongues of flames were
licking along the surface of the water and
horribly burnt her head and face; she had no
life preserver, and only secured one end of
a plank by clinging to the pantaloon leg of a
man who swam past her; she says that while
moving through the water several gasping
drowning wretches extended their hands
towards her, some even grasping her hair
and tearing out handfulls in their terror;
the last living object seen on board was a
little child three or four years of age, run-
ning about screaming with affright, sur-
rounded by flames, its legs, arms and face
exposed to the terrible heat.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE BLESSINGS OF TO-DAY.

	Strange, we never prize the music
	     Till the sweet-voiced birds are flown
	Strange that we should slight the violets,
	     Till the lovely flowers are gone;
	Strange that summer skies and sunshine
	     Never seem one-half so fair,
	As when winter's snowy pinions,
	     Shake the white down in the air.

	Lips from which the seal of science,
	     None but God can roll away,
	Never blossomed of such beauty,
	     As adorns the mouth to-day;
	And sweet words that freight our memory,
	     With their beantiful perfume,
	Come to us in sweeter accents,
	     Through the portals of the tomb.

	Let us gather up the sunbeams;
	     Lying all around our path;
	Let us keep the wheat and roses,
	     Casting out the thorns and chaff;
	Let us find our sweetest comfort,
	     In the blessings of the day,
	With a patient hand removing
	     All the briers from our way.


R. S. REPORTS.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE VALLEY, July 27th.
DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:—
	Although you hear but little from the
Relief Society of this place, we are still
alive; and though we do not make a big
noise, our course is onward, and by the
help of our Father, we intend it shall con-
tinue so.
	A special meeting of the sisters of this
place was called on the 19th inst., as we had
the pleasure of a visit from Mrs. Mary I.
Horne. On account of such a short notice,
there were not as many assembled as if it
had been more widely circulated, but those
present were extremely attentive, deeply
interested and appreciated Sister Horne's
kind words of counsel and comfort, which
will, without doubt, be lastingly remembered.
We were also favored with the presence of
Bishops Budge and Horne, who encouraged
the Society to press forward, and bore their
testimonies to the truth of this Work. An
excellent spirit prevailed, and the Society
felt greatly blessed and benefitted.
	The ever memorable "24th" found the
people of this place well prepared to enjoy
the day. There were the usual firing of
guns, hoisting of the "stars and stripes," etc.
A procession under the direction of the
Marshal, marched to the Social Hall where
singing by the Sunday School Choir, music
by the Brass Band, speeches by Pres. Chas.
C. Rich and Bishop Budge, recitations;
songs and toasts followed each other in their
order.
	We all feel interested in the progress of
the EXPONENT and are greatly pleased with
its advancement. Accept our success of
your interesting and valuable paper and may
the spirit of God be with you continually to
assist you in all your good efforts.
		ALICE A. MARGETTS, Secretary.

	The Relief Society of the town of Pan-
guitch was organized December 10th, 1873;
it now numbers seventy-eight members and
is progressing very favorably. It is an or-
ganization from God, and as such we feel a
pleasure in being numbered with the Soci-
ety here in Panguitch, though it is only a
small branch, as it were, just putting forth
its first leaves. The great design of this
Society is to do good and instruct one an-
other; to lift up and not pull down; to com-
fort those who mourn; help the poor;
teach each other how to live, be industrious
and set an example of neatness and piety
worthy of imitation; to help us improve the
talents God has given us; to help prepare
[right column]
us for an exaltation in the Celestial King-
dom; to unite us; teach us to love one an-
other and cease to do evil, and to ennoble and
fit us for Eternity.
		MYRA HENRIE, President,
		MARY ANN P. MARSHALL,
						Secretary.

	Through a communication from Mill
Creek, in this county, we learn that the Re-
lief Society of that place is fully organized
with the following officers: Mrs. Mary Mc-
Allister, President; Mrs. Ann Morgan and
Mrs. Elizabeth Park, Counselors; Mrs.
Horace Miller, Treasurer; Mrs. Christina
Miller and Mrs. Elizabeth Carlisle, Secreta-
ries. At an interesting meeting held there
a number of visitors were present, includ-
ing Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. Young, Mrs.
E. Howard, Mrs. H. Brinton and Bro. Wm.
Young. All the officers and members of
the Relief Society were also present. A
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
was organized with Miss Joan Helm for
President, with six counselors; Mrs. Marga-
ret Spencer, Superintendent and Miss Linda
North, Secretary. Seventy-four members
joined the Association.


﻿THE SEX.

	MISS Whately has organized large schools
for Mohammedan children at Cairo.
	FLORENCE Nightingale and Harriet Mar-
tineau are among 18,000 English women
petitioners for the right of Suffrage.
	MRS. Foster has climbed to the summit of
Popocatapetl, the greatest altitude ever at-
tained by a woman.
	A YOUNG Japanese lady, who is being
educated at Georgetown, received four first
premiums at the Commencement a few days
ago.
	MRS. Addie L. Ballou has received letters
of thanks from several of the inmates of
the Oregon Penitentiary for the cheering
words spoken by her during a recent visit to
the institution.
	MRS. Hilton has built up a day nursery at
Ratcliff, England. It is one of the best, and
has served as a model for many. Miss
Cooper has opened and managed a combined
club, reading room and lecture course for
costermongers.
	A WOMAN is to have the honor of furnish-
ing the design for Dr. Livingstone's statue.
The foreign exchanges report that about
$4000 have been subscribed to the fund rais-
ing in Edinburgh for the statue of the late
Dr. Livingstone. The design accepted for
the statue is that of Mrs. Hill, sister of Sir
Noel Paton.
	MISS Richards has very successfully con-
cluded at Stapletown, near Bristol, England,
the feat of walking one thousand miles in
one thousand consecutive hours. When she
began, on the 18th of May, an application
was made to the magistrates to interfere;
but it was unsuccessful, on the ground that
the young woman was a free agent.
	MISS Gilbert, a blind lady, opened a blind-
school in a Holburn cellar, for which she
paid eighteen pence a week. She has now
a thousand pupils, whom she has taught to
support themselves. They maintain the
Institution that gives them a home, an edu-
cation and an occupation. Its maintenance
costs $40,000 a year. This work of a poor,
blind woman may fairly be compared with
any of the marvels history records as
wrought by blind men.


MISS Rye, who began her work a few
years ago on a capital of $3750, has helped
178 governesses to emigaate to the British
colonies, where they have all, mainly through
her efforts, found employment. She has put
1500 English women into good places as do-
mestics in Australia and New Zealand.
She has personally taken to Canada and
placed in respectable families 1200 children
of the London streets. Nine-tenths of them
are girls, "who, but for their benefactress'
efforts, were condemned inevitably to a life
of the lowest degradation." Miss Macpher-
son has done the same good work for 1800
poor girls.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	COFFEE is being cultivated in Amador
Co., California.
	SAN FRANCISCO has given $20,000 to the
Louisiana sufferers.
	MICHIGAN'S wool clip this year will
amount to 6,000,000 pounds.
	A YOUNG lady in East Salem, Or., has of-
ficiated as bridesmaid twenty-two times.
	A LADY of Kansas aged sixty-eight has
astonished her husband by presenting him
with a baby.
	A MAN in Nebraska made, last spring, 300
gallons of sirup from maple trees planted
nine years ago.
	THE total expenditure of the Government
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1874,
amounted to $287,133,873.17.
	THE city of Springfield, Mass., has a con-
science fund. Only one stricken individual,
however, has contributed to it, to the amount
of twenty dollars.
	A MAN in Victory, Vt., lost nineteen
lambs out of a flock of twenty seven, by
washing them in a solution of arsenic to
destroy the sheep ticks.
	OLEOMARGARINE or refined beef suet—a
substitute for butter— has been quoted in
the London market at from 100 to 110 shill-
ing per hundred weight.
	IN the reign of Queen Ann, the Boston
"News Letter" was the only newspaper
published in America, and it printed but
about thirteen thousand copies a year.
	MISSOURI has coal in 43 counties, iron in
48, lead in 54, zinc in 19, tin in 6, copper in
21, marble in 9, kaolin in 11, nickel in 13,
and other useful minerals distributed
throughout the State.
	IOWA has found a way to fight the grass-
hoppers. It consists in firing all the old
straw, sticks and stubble at hand, on a day
when the wind will drive the smoke through
fields infested by them. Crops have been
saved this way, and it may be the relief so
long looked for.
	THE statistical report to the State Sunday
School Convention at Portland, Oregon;
shows the following for the past year: Total
number of schools as far as obtained, 76; to-
tal number enrolled, including officers and
teachers, 7,254; total number of officers and 
teachers, 926; total number of volumes in
libraries, 6,754; total collections for all pur-
poses, $2,611.


A LITTLE boy of five years, dressed in his
first sack coat, stood leaning against his
mother's knee. "Mamma," said he, after a
pause, "I wish you had put tails to this
coat; I have wanted a tail coat these good
many years." There was silence for a space.﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A few words of advice to our sisters, both
young and old, may not be out of place, for
it is our duty as mothers, to be patterns to
our children, as well as to teach them good
and righteous principles. It is our duty to
be kind and affectionate in our families and
to our husbands, not only in words but in
works. Not by sitting down and grumbling
and wanting some one to wait on us so that
we can act the fine lady or trying to be bur-
dens to our husbands by saying we won't
work as long as we can get any one to do it
for us; but by waiting on ourselves, and do-
ing all that we can to help them along. We
should try to have our meals ready in good
time and have them as palatable and nour-
ishing as possible for our husbands who are
constantly laboring for us. We should try 
to cultivate order in our homes, for it is one
of Heaven's first laws. We should teach
our children to love, respect and obey their 
parents, and shun all company who do not;
for if they associate with such companions
they will partake of the same spirit. It is
our duty to look well to our children and to
know what company they keep. This is es
pecially important with our girls from about
twelve to sixteen years old, for there are so
many men from sixteen to thirty and even 
forty years old, and among them are some
of our so-called Mormon boys, that would
like their company; but do they go first to
their parents or whoever has the care of the
girls and ask permission to take them to a
dance or theatre or to talk to them—no they
do not. Those who will do this may be
better trusted. But those who seek the
company of girls unknown to their parents,
guardians or friends, will use stratagem
and make others think these girls really
think so much of them that they are deter-
mined to keep their company on the sly;
and they will get their sisters or cousins or
some of their associates to induce the girls
to go to some place where they can meet
them, and there pour out their poisonous
venom in the kindest and most fascinating
manner within their power, until they often
finally prove their destruction. Mothers
lay these things before your daughters, you
no doubt talk to your daughters concerning
outsiders, but such Mormons (?) as these are
worse. Young men beware of the girl that
will connive at such stratagem, for she will
doubtless practise duplicity. If you are
keeping company with a girl that you love,
dont listen to tales against her; and, as they
say, "play off" on her before you know the
truth. I have known many young people
made miserable for life by the untruths and
strategems of others, and do not remember
ever knowing a young couple to think a
great deal of each other but somebody would
try to put something between them, although
they might not succeed. Girls, take the
same advice to yourselves, especially if your
beaux are respectable.				B.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
			OBEDIENCE.
	The Apostle Paul said, "Let every soul
be subject to the higher powers for whoever
resisteth the ordinance resisteth the power
of God." Therefore it is necessary for us
to render obedience to those who are placed
over us by our Heavenly Father and be as-
sured that He will not place over us any one
that has not received that Higher Power
from Him. The servants of God are in pos-
session of a higher power than we ourselves
are, therefore we should obey them. It is


not only to God and his servants that we
owe obedience, but it is also due to our par-
ents who have struggled and suffered and
given every thought to make us loved, res-
pected and honored, even as they would be
themselves. Think of the care and anxiety
they have had for us; how they have
watched over us and guided our erring foot-
steps when we were unable to care for our-
selves; let us think of this and if we wish
to repay them for all they have done, be obe-
dient tot their wishes, for there is nothing
so pleasing to a parent as an obedient child.
To those who wish to do right, the word
"obedience" has no tyranny; for once start-
ed right on the path of obedience it is easy
to tread. It is not hard to do the will of
those we love; and if we really love God,
His servants and our parents, we will cheer-
fully obey them and no harm will befall us.
We should obey every good feeling of our
hearts and when a thought is presented to
us by which we can do good, act upon it; do
good wherever we can and forget ourselves
but in such a manner that it will always be
remembered by others—looking for no other
reward than that sweet satisfaction that al-
ways springs from the knowledge that we
are doing right and that we know we are
approved by our Heavenly Father. Then
let us strive with all our might, mind and
strength to overcome the many temptations
to do wrong and keep our hearts pure so that
we can receive any instruction that would
be for our good. Let us do all we can to
gain the satisfaction of our own consciences
and the approbation of our heavenly Father,
in all things. 					L. T.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
		DOES IT PAY?

	"It pays best you know,” was the reply
of a lady at the dress maker's, on being
asked how she wished her dress made. "Oh!
make it very nice and stylish, it pays best
you know; a lady is noticed more, and re-
ceives more attention if she dresses well.”
	I thought to myself, is that as it should
be? Should a lady of intelligence need
flounces, and puffs, and other finery to at-
tract attention or cause her society to be ap-
preciated? There must be something wrong
somewhere. Has the public taste become so
shallow and unstable as only to appreciate
finery; or do our ladies cease to cultivate
their minds, and make their goodness and
intelligence objects of attraction?
	It is certainly necessary that a lady should
know she is neatly and becomingly dressed,
in order to feel at ease in society; but would
it not be better to spend a few of the hours,
in studying and trying to acquire useful in-
formation that are commonly spent in mak-
ing tucks and ruffles? It is very nice to see
a lady prettily dressed in clothes that are
neat and becoming, and, I think some fore-
thought should be given that our clothes
may be arranged with neatness and taste;
choosing such colors as suit the complexion
so that the general appearance may be at-
tractive. But, beyond this, we should take
some thought that our minds be stored with
useful knowledge.
	To cultivate the intelligence that God has
given us, and purify our hearts that we may
be fit companions for the wise and good,
that we may be worthy of our own respect
and the good will of those with whom we
associate, and fulfil our duties as mothers in
Israel is the highest and holiest calling which
God has given us. 				M. J. T.


INDIANAPOLIS has eighty-two railroad
offices. Every family should have one.


[For the EXPONENT.
		   RETRENCHMENT.

	Retrenchment is a subject upon which so
much might be said, that I feel incompe-
tent for the task of either speaking or writing
upon it; but Mormonism never allows its vota-
ries to say they cannot do a thing required of 
them by duty. I think retrenchment, as we
understand it, one of the greatest, as we
understand it, one of the greatest and most
glorious principles, and one calculated to do
as much good, when carried out practically,
as anything that was ever organized upon
this earth. It is not limited to dress alone
but includes everything that is calculated to
make us wise, useful and happy, while here
in this state of existence. It teaches us to
study our religion, to know no will of our
own, only the will of God; to find out His
will concerning us, and then bring ourselves
under subjection to the same. If we attend
our meetings and are in the line of our duty,
we always have a good spirit, which will
show us the right from the wrong at all
times, if we will only listen to its whisper.
And, another thing, it is surprising to see
the talent that has come to light since the
organization of these retrenchment meetings;
young women that thought it impossible for
them to write or speak any thing useful,
will both write and speak excellently. I 
believe that if we will continue as we have
begun, it is beyond our power to comprehend
the good that may be accomplished through
our diligence and faithfulness. There is a 
great responsibility resting, and will rest up-
on our shoulders; as wives and mothers, and
we will need all the help we can get in order
to acquit ourselves honorably, as daughters
of Zion; therefore I feel that "Retrench-
ment" is the very thing that is needed for
our good.					M. A. E.


FLOWERS.

	REVENGE often converts a little right in-
to a great wrong.
	HE who is always his own counsellor will
often have a fool for his client.
	RUN not after blessings; only walk in the
commandments of God, and blessings shall
run after, and overtake you.
	ALMOST every one complains of the bad-
ness of his memory, but nobody complains
of his defective judgement.
	IT has been beautifully said that "the vail
which covers the face of futurity was woven
by the hand of mercy."
	WHAT God effects through the powers
with which he has endowed man is no less
His work than the heavens and the earth
are.—A. P. Peabody.
	THE man who can refuse indulgence to a
clamoring desire, can hold the craving ape-
tite ungratified, and say to the rising pas-
sion, "Peace, be still!" is a true hero.
	THE truly great and good, in affliction
bear a countenance more princely than they
are wont; for it is the temper of the high-
est hearts, like the palm-tree, to strive most
upward when it is most burdened.
	EACH one of a thousand acts of love costs
very little by itself, and yet, when viewed
all together, who can estimate their value?
What is it that secures for one the name of
a kind neighbor? Not the doing of half a
dozen great favors in as many years, but the
little everyday kindnesses none of which
seem of much consequence considered in
itself, but the continued repitition of which
sheds a sunlight over the whole neighbor-
hood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

			 LOCAL.
	On the 11th inst., Soren Larsen, a Dane,
suicided in an old log cabin, on the County
road. Domestic troubles supposed to be the
cause.......Recently a quantity of clothing
was stolen in the night, from Mr. Clive's
tailor shop on Third South St.........The an-
nual session of the Rocky Mountain Con-
ference of the M. E. Church commenced in
this city, on the 13th inst., about twenty
resident and visiting clergymen were in
attendance......Mr. John McEwan has been
elected Recorder of Provo Mining District.
......Alderman A. C. Pyper, having been
commissioned by the Governor, is now the
Justice of the peace at the City Hall......
The burning of a railway car loaded with
charcoal has occurred twice at Sandy Sta-
tion lately, under similar circumstances.....
A proposed cheap excursion from this City
to San Fransisco has fallen through.....Sev-
eral candidates placed on the "Liberal Tick-
et" repudiated their nominations before the
election on the 3rd inst......Over seventy
names, out of two hundred, on the list of
Jurors for the Second Judicial District, were
chozen from one precinct alone. This was
to secure as many non-Mormons as possible
......A fire occurred at Bingham on the 10th;
six buildings were burned......Manganese
has been found at or near Parley's Park......
Dr. S. B. Young has been appointed City
Physician.
		     PERSONAL.
	Gen. Hillyer, the last member of Gen.
Grant's original staff, died recently......Hon.
Chas. E. DeLong lately lectured to a full
house, at Eureks, Nev., the proceeds were
for the relief of the sufferers by the late in-
undation......The rumor that Vice-President
Willson had resigned or intended to on ac-
count of ill health, is contradicted by au-
thority......Senator Schurz has nearly re-
covered from the malarial fever and ex-
haustion, caused by over work, from which
he has been suffering......Charles T. Beeke,
the African explorer, is reported dead......
Charlotte Cushman is living in her villa on
Rhode Island avenue in Newport......The
Emperor of Germany sleeps on a narrow
iron bedstead, with pillows and mattress
harder than are used by the common people
in his domains......Uncle Jake Nobles, aged
one hundred and ten, and Sarah Peoples,
aged eighty-five years, were recently mar-
ried at Hot Springs, Arkansas......Geo. F.
Hoar it not anxious, seemingly, to be the
Republican candidate for Governor of Mass-
achusetts........Prince Leopold, Victoria's
youngest son, is to study law.....Marshal
Bazaine, with his wife, escaped from his
prison on the Isle of St. Marguerite on the
10th inst. The whole affair was planned
by Madame Bazaine.
			LITERARY.	Bret Harte is said to have written his last
story, "John Oakhurst," in one night......
Mr. James T. Fields is to deliver a course of
six lectures on "Modern English Litera-
ture" in Philadelphia, next winter......San
Fransico papers containing articles written
by Henri Rocheforth have been seized by
the French Government at the Post Office
in Paris......The publishers of the "Aldine,"
a popular illustrated periodical, are said to
have failed. The firm state, however, that
the failure can be "bridged over"......Miss
E. Keary—a Scandinavian by birth—has
written several books of poems which be-
token rare genius but are deeply imbued
with the stuperstitious spirit of the ancient
norsemen.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	An article in the "American Journal of
Science"' by the Rev. H. C. Hovey. shows,
from facts cited, that the bite of a skunk is
nearly always fatal and is to be dreaded as
much as that of a rattlesnake or mad dog.
......Late instances have proved that feather
beds are no protection against lightning......
A German paper states that elastic cords
have been successfully used for cutting off
tissues and removing swellings and tumors
without pain or loss of blood to the patient.


DESERET UNIVERSITY.

	Feeling a deep interest in the advance of edu-
cation in our midst, and being desirous of pro-
moting its interests, in our humble way, we
feel a pleasure in calling attention to the above
named institution. We do so, the more because
it is—in the good it designed to accomplish—
not intended for this city or neighborhood
alone but for the whole Territory; for all who
desire to, and can avail themselves of the ad-
vantages it offers.
	With the compliments of Dr. J. R. Park,
President of the University, we have received
the "Circular of the Academical Department"
for the year 1874-75 which is intended, so we
understand, for distribution to those who think
of patronizing the University and desire to
learn something of its origin, government, fa-
cilities, the course of studies, etc. The teach-
ers all bear a high reputation as educators, and
from a personal acquaintance with Dr. Park,
and others of the faculty we feel confident they
will labor faithfully for the best interests of
those under their care.  Although the classes
are open to the admission of students at any
time we would recommend students to begin
with the commencement of a term. The aca-
demical year is divided into four terms, of ten
weeks each, the first one beginning on the 24th
inst. There is one feature we are pleased to
notice, not particularly for the purpose of in-
ducing persons to take advantage of the provi-
sion it contains, but to show that the Institu-
tion is one intended for the people. It is con-
tained in the following paragraph:
	"In order to assist persons in the Territory
who may be desirous of attending the Institu-
tion, and yet are unable to bear the cost of tui-
tion, the Chancellor and Board of Regents have
established a Beneficiary Foundation. By its
provisions, such persons are admitted as stu-
dents in the University free of charge. Those
who are desirous of availing themselves of this
provision, may first apply to the President of
the Faculty."
	The following extracts are from the closing
“Address to Parents, Guardians and Friends of
Education.”—“As the University now possesses
facilities for advanced education exceeding any
it has heretofore offered, and which are fully
equal, it is believed, to the present require-
ments of the Territory, its officers feel justified
in asking for it  the influence and patronage of
the friends of education.—They are earnest to
build up the cause of education in our midst
and to fortify our home institutions by making
them worthy of a liberal patronage.—In pre-
paring the Scientific Course of Instruction for
students of the University, great care has been
taken to select only such studies as are in some
degree essential to an acquaintance with the
principles and knowledge of practical life. Thus
pruned of what is purely theoretical or disci-
plinary, the course is a practical one in the
sense which means that the student shall ac-
quire such information and attain to such disci-
pline that he may be comprehensive, and able
to view subjects in their true light and to plan
and execute without blunders. Moreover, the
course is so shortened as to place it within the
reach of every youth truly desirous of an edu-
cation.—Enough time and effort, it is believed,
are usually spent by those attending our
schools, in desultory and consequently almost
profitless study, that, if wisely directed, would
enable them to reach a respectable degree of
attainment in education. It is urged there-
fore, that all who enter this school pursue regu-
larly and fully, the course they may select.—
No students, however, will be admitted into
the Institution who are noted as refractory, or
who are not thought to be earnest for an educa-
tion, and who have not the necessary acquain-
tance with the common branches to enter its
Preliminary Course.”
	We have been lengthy on this subject be-
cause we realize it is of deep importance, and
that it is the duty of our citizens to sustain, as
far as possible, our home institutions of educa
tion.
	In concluding, we would mention that lady
students are admitted on equal terms with the
gentlemen; and this has been the case, we be-
lieve, from the commencement. This may be
thought of but little importance by many, but
the subject of the co-education of  the sexes is
become one of the prominent questions that
agitate the educational world, to-day.


TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.

	Two instances have occurred lately, in this
city, of children being severely bitten by dogs.
We think that dogs which are thought, or
known to be vicious, should be either shot or
killed in some quick and merciful manner, or, if
not killed, should be so confined that they can
do no harm. Cases of hydrophobia, one of the
most fearful deaths, have been unusually fre-
quent in the East, during the present hot sea-
son and these should be a warning to all. There
are persons, and often young people who will
thoughtlessly or maliciously tease and beat
their dogs or cats, whose bites are said to be
dangerous, until these dumb brutes become
either more savage in their natures or maddened
at the time. Such cruelty is most reprehensi-
ble, for while it is a violation of morality and
religion, it is too often the cause of some one
being dangerously hurt by these animals, while
under the influence of such treatment. Parents
should kindly and intelligently teach their
children by example and precept to be kind to
domestic animals and never ill-treat or tease
them, and if they teach them to be merciful to
the dumb creatures that God has placed here
under the dominion of man and for his use,
they will be developing qualities that will ren-
der their children more estimable in the sight
of their fellow-men and more truly noble in
their natures.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DECEASE OF MR. E. L. SLOAN.

	On Sunday night, the 2nd inst,, the above
named gentleman breathed his last at his resi-
dence in the Twentieth Ward. Although he
had been unwell for several weeks and was ap-
parently growing worse, his friends did not
realize that his end was so near.
	He was an able journalist, and the EXPONENT
had, perhaps, no other friend whose influence
was more unsparingly used in its behalf at the
time of its commencement, than was that of
Mr. Sloan. For this, respect and kindest re-
membrances are due him from those interested
in its welfare. In our short acquaintance we
found him to be a gentleman and generous
friend, ever willing to encourage, and even as-
sist us, as far as possible in our editorial duties.
	No words of consolation more appropriate,
we think, could be offered his bereaved family
and friends, than the following from his own
gifted pen:
	"Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
		Their wearied bodies down—
	Who leave the frail and mortal clay
		To seek a fadeless crown.

	Dry up the unavailing tear;
		Repress the selfish sigh;
	Know that the spirit ransomed here
		Yet lives, and ne'er shall die."
	We insert a brief sketch of his life taken from
the "Salt Lake Herald," through the columns
of which he was so widely and well known
during the last few years.

	"Edward Lennox Sloan was born at Conlig,
County Down, Ireland, Nov. 9th, 1830, and
consequently at his death he was aged 43 years,
9 months and 23 days. When eighteen years of
age he became connected with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was ordained
an Elder and went forth as a missionary to
preach the Gospel. He first labored in Ireland,
and subsequently in England, Scotland and the
Isle of Capan. During his ministerial labors he
held several prominent positions in the Mission,
among others the presidency of the Notting-
ham, Sheffield, and Liverpool Conferences.
He was next connected with the Liverpool of-
fice, the headquarters of the European mission,
and labored upon the "Millenial Star," to the
columns of which his valuable contributions
gave an additional interest. While in this po-
sition he assisted for some time in forwarding
the Church Emigration and was otherwise ac-
tively engaged in advancing the interests of
the Church and people with whom he had cast
his lot.
	In the Fall of the year 1863 he immigrated to
Utah and was immediately employed in Presi-
dent Young's office, whence he went to the
theatre as box keeper. He was next engaged
on the "Deseret News" as assistant editor, and
afterwards on the "Daily Telegraph" where he
occupied a similar position. In 1869 he pub-
lished the Salt Lake City Directory, which was
the first work of the kind issued in this Terri-
tory. In the year 1870, in conjunction with
W. C. Dunbar, Esq., he started the Salt Lake
Daily "Herald," the first number of which was
issued on the 5th of June, since which time his
labors are well know to the public.
	Born in a land where it is difficult to rise to
any degree of eminence, without money to pur-
chase that eminence, he struggled manfully
against opposition, and early made his genius
acknowledged in his own local circles. Urged
onward by an inordinate love of books, and be-
ing withal ambitious to acquire an education,
he applied himself in his leisure moments to
study; and although he never attended school
after his eleventh year, when Mr Sloan had
grown to man's estate his education was far
superior to that of his fellows. Possessing a
powerful imagination, his inclination and de-
sires were naturally literary, and when but a
boy he had become the author of numerous
poems of acknowledged merit. His genius was
of no ordinary character, but towered above
that of common humanity, commanding for
its owner the respect of all who knew him.
But he has been cut off in his youth, as it were,
and in his death the country loses one who had
the capacity and ability to make himself great
by his accomplishments. In this Territory few
men were more widely known or respected than
the deceased, and his sad demise will occasion
deep grief and general sorrow thoughout the
length and breadth of Utah. He was known
to be an arduous laborer for and ardent defend-
er of the rights of the people, and it is the peo-
ple who will mourn his loss."


LITERARY NOTICE.

	Dora Darmoore's journal for women, “The
Homestead,” is again on our editorial table-
after a few months interval. It is a neatly got,
ten up monthly, published at Oakland, Cal.,
and evidently reflects the fine literary talents
of its editor. We wish it success.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UTAH Northern R. R. Company give
notice, dated Aug. 5th, that hereafter they will
discontinue running trains on Sundays.
	ELECTION RETURNS have been received from
a number, and all, except Tooele, show a huge
majority for the People's Ticket. We hope to
give more particulars in our next.
	INFORMATION WANTED.—Any person know-
ing the whereabouts of David Owen, who emi-
grated from Rumney, South Wales, in 1862,
will confer a favor by communicating his ad-
dress to John Rees, Wales, Sanpete Co., Utah
Territory.—Deseret News.
	PROF. KARL G Maeser expects to commence
the next regular term of the Twentieth Ward
Seminary on the 10th inst. Besides the prima-
ry, intermediate and grammar departments it
is the intention to have academic, normal, and
evening classes so as to meet the wants of all as
far as possible. To those who wish to properly
school their children or, if they can spare the
time, improve their own education, this will,
we feel confident, be a fine opportunity.
	WE HAVE a recent letter, from a sister in one
of the small country settlements, which gives
some account of the place and also of the Re-
lief Society there, but we cannot publish it be-
cause there is no indication of the place from
whence it was sent except what can be gained
from an almost illegible post mark. The en-
closed article, headed, "A Word of Advice,"
etc., will probably appear in this or the next
issue. All communications should clearly show
the time and place where they were written.
	THE EXCURSION on the 6th inst., from this
city to Franklin, Idaho Ter., the northern ter-
minus of the Utah Northern Railroad, proved
to be a decided success. As near as we could
learn, there were over seven hundred passen-
gers. Much credit is due to Mr. J. N. Pike,
the manager, for the care and attention he ex-
ercised in behalf of the passengers, also to the
railway men for their carefulness and courtesy.
No accident occurred, although while the return
train was crossing the mountain some grass
caught fire and a lady, catching the impression
that the cars were on fire, jumped, with her
infant, from the train; fortunately it was not
going at full speed and a gallant brakesman,
who was close by, jumped off, caught her with
one hand to prevent her sliding down the bank
and with the other signalled the train to stop.
Fortunately all escaped injury. The passen-
gers seemed to enjoy the trip very much. An-
other similar excursion is planned to come off
on the 19th inst.


LAST MOMENT was marked by several most
destructive floods in this, and other coun-
tries. This city and Parowan have been
visited by floods, damaging and destroying
some hundreds of dollars worth of property.


About thirty feet of the C. P. R. R. track
twenty-eight miles east of Wells, Nev., was
washed out by the bursting of a cloud. A
water spout bursting near Carson City, Nev.,
caused great destruction of property, no
lives lost. Heavy rains and the bursting
of a cloud on the 24th ult. at Eureka, Nev.,
caused a violent flood which swept through
the town, killing about twenty-five persons
and destroying a large amount of property.
At Pittsburg, Penn., on the night of July
26th-7th a terrible storm swept over the
city and surrounding country. The water
was three or four feet deep in the city, the
Panhandle tunnel was flooded, and houses,
out-buildings, shops, cattle and about twenty
bridges were carried away before the raging
waters. The destruction of property which
was immense has not been estimated and
the loss of life, more terrible than all the
rest, is great, it being calculated that from
150 to 219 persons have been killed. The
same date brings news of a fierce rain and
hail storm on the borders of Moravia, in
Europe, many lives reported lost, a large
number of cattle were drowned, sixty-four
houses were demolished and the railways
badly damaged.


ANCIENT CITY IN NEW MEXICO.

	Capt. W. C. Manning, of Gen. Crook's
forces, has furnished an interesting descrip-
tion of an ancient city in New Mexico, in-
habited by a remnant of the race which cen-
turies ago was a flourishing tributary of
Montezuma's empire. The Captain has
visited ihe town, talked with their inhabi-
tants, and studied their customs. The lar-
gest settlement is in New Mexico, about
thirty miles south of the border line of Ari-
zona. A strong wall surrounds it, and with-
in are houses for about four thousand people,
though the population is only 1,800. The
language and some of the custom resemble
Chinese, though religious worship is formal
and pompous. The priests have heavily
embroidered robes, which have been used
for unnumbered years. Like the peruvi-
ans, the people keep a record of events by
tying knots in long cords. The Govern-
ment is administered by thirteen caciques,
or chiefs, six of whom are selected for life,
the others being elected from time to time.
There is a head chief and a vice head chief,
a war chief, &c. Everybody votes, morals
are good, and women are respected, a fact
which alone makes a wide gulf between the
dwellers in this ancient city and the horse-
men of the plains. The place was men-
tioned by a Spanish Jesuit in 1529, and is
probably as old as the Mexican empire,
which was in its heyday of glory and pros-
perity when invaded by Coriez.


A GOOD IDEA.—Woman ought not to be
less interested in good government than
men. Mothers ought to take as deep an in-
terest as fathers in securing laws that shall
lessen, to their children, the temptations
that surround them, leading to a life of im-
morality and crime. The woman who says
she doesn't care to vote virtually says she is
indifferent to the highest interest of her
children and the world around her. She
virtually says she doesn't care whether or
not a brothel is located on every street cor-
ner in Grand Rapids, or a dram shop in
every basement, or a gambling hell over
every store. It is high time that these
"womanly" women realized that their indif-
ference as to how the world is governed is
as great a crime in them as all admit it to
be in men.—Grand Rapids Post.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


BEARTIFUL IN OLD AGE.

How to be beautiful when old?
	I can tell you maiden fair—
Not by lotions, dyes and pigments,
	Not by washes for your hair,
While you're young be pure and gentle,
	Keep your passions well controlled,
Walk, and work, and do your duty,
	You'll be handsome when you're old.

Snow-white locks are fair as golden,
	Gray as lovely as the brown,
And the smile of age more pleasant
	Than a youthful beauty's frown.
'Tis the soul that shapes the features,
	Fires the eye, attunes the voice;
Sweet sixteen! be these your maxims,
	When you're sixty you'll rejoice.


IF I COULD KEEP HER SO.

Just a little baby, lying in my arms—
Would that I could keep you, with your baby charms:
Helpless, clinging fingers, downy, golden hair,
Where the sunshine lingers, caught from otherwhere;
Blue eyes asking questions, lips that cannot speak,
Roly-poly shoulders, dimple in your cheek;
Dainty little bosom in a world of woe,
Thus I fain would keep you, for I love you so.
					LOUISE C. MOULTON.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Bread Pancakes.—Nice breakfast pancakes can
be made of bread crumb soaked in milk over night, 
with eggs and a little soda.
	Lemon Cake— 1 cup of butter; three of white
sugar, stirred to a cream; add the yolks of five
eggs; 1 teaspoon soda; 1 cup sweet milk; the gra-
ted rind and juice of one lemon; 4 cups of flour and
the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth.
	To Give a Fine Polish to Linen.— Use lukewarm
(not cold) water to break down the starch. When
it has been reduced to the required consistency by
boiling water, add a pinch of fine salt and stir sev-
eral times with a wax candle. This will make the 
iron run smoothly, and give a polish to the linen
that nothing else can impart.
	Hop Beer.— Healthy, easily made and will keep
six or eight months; three months after it is made
it is almost equal to ale. This receipt is for fifteen
gallons: Twelve ounces hops, six quarts molasses;
ten eggs; put the hops in a bag and boil them fif-
teen minutes in three pailfulls of water; put in the
molasses while hot, and pour immediately into a
strong ale cask which can be made perfectly air
tight and put in the remainder of the water cold;
let the mixture stand until cool, and then add the
eggs, well beaten. This beer will not ferment in
cold weather unless put in quite a warm place.
	Plain Talk to Girls.—Your every day toilet is
part of your character. A girl who looks like
"fury" or a sloven in the morning, is not to be
trusted, however finely she may look in the eve-
ning. No matter how humble your room may be,
there are eight things it should contain, viz:
	A mirror, wash-stand, soap, towel, comb, hair,
nail and tooth brushes.
	These are just as essential as your breakfast,
before which you should make good use of them.
Parents who fail to provide their children with such
appliances, not only make a great mistake, but com-
mit a sin of omission. Look tidy in the morning, 
and after the dinner work is over improve your toi-
let.
	Make it a rule of your daily life to "dress up"
for the afternoon. Your dress may not, [---] need
not be, anything better than calico, but with a rib-
bon or flower, or some bit of ornament, you can
have an air of self-respect and satisfaction that in-
variably comes with being well and neatly dressed. 
	A girl with fine sensibilities cannot help feeling 
embarrassed and awkward in a ragged, dirty dress, 
with her hair unkempt, if a neighbor comes in. 
	Moreover, your self-respect should demand the


decent appareling of your body. You should make
it a point to look as well as you can, even if you
know nobody will see you but yourself.
	Household Measures.—As all families are not
provided with scales and weights, referring to in-
gredients in general use by every housewife, the
following information may be useful.
	Wheat flour, one pound is one quart.
	Indian meal, one pound two ounces is one quart.
	Butter, when soft, one pound one ounce is one
quart.
	Loaf sugar, broken, one pound is one quart.
	White sugar, powdered, one pound one ounce is
one quart.
	Best brown sugar, one pound two ounces is one
quart.
	Eggs, average size, ten eggs are one pound.
	Sixteen large tablespoonfuls are half a pint,
eight are a gill, four half a gill, etc.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	MENTAL WORK:—Calm and steady men-
tal work is conducive to long life; but ner-
vous emotion, mental work that is a con-
stant urging, and, at the same time, is an
unhanging of the even tenor of the mind
eats away the brain faster than any mental
labor, no matter how hard, that is system-
atic. As men do not really die of heart
disease as often as supposed, but of apo-
plexy, or congestion of the lungs, so they
do not die of brain work but brain worry.
Scott died of it, Southey, Swift, Horace
Greeley, and probably Thackeray.	HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.—The three
requisites for babies are plenty of sleep,
plenty of food, plenty of flannel. The say-
ing that man is a bundle of habits is as
true of babies as it is of grown children. If
an infant is accustomed from its birth to
sleep from six o'clock at night until day-
light, the habit of early sleep will be formed
and the mother may have all her evenings
to herself. If the baby sleeps all night, a
long morning nap will naturally come about
dinner-time, after which the child, except
when very young, should be kept awake un-
til six o'clock. Perserverance in this routine
will soon result in securing quiet evenings
for both the child and parent. Some moth-
ers have a long season every morning and
every night in getting the baby asleep.
They rock them and sing to them till Mor-
pheus enfolds them. With most children
this is entirely unnecessary. An infant can
be accustomed, by a few days' training, to
go to sleep itself for a morning's nap as well
as for the longer rest at night.—Ex.
	IS HARD WATER WHOLESOME.—There is
a popular prejudice that hard water is dan-
gerous to the health, and on that account you
are constantly warned by physicians to be-
ware of it, but in England one of the lead-
ing authorities on this subject, Dr. Letheby,
after devoting many years to an investiga-
tion into the properties of the water intro-
duced into English cities, and to a study of
the sanitary reports on the subject, comes
to the conclusion that moderately hard wa-
ter is safer and more healthful than soft wa-
ter. Hard water is not only clearer, colder,
more free from air, and consequently more
agreeable to the eye and to the taste than
soft water, but is less likely to absorb organic
substances, to sustain the life of zymotic or-
ganisms, or to exert solvent properties upon
salts of iron or upon leaden conducting
pipes. The lime salts exert a beneficial in-
fluence upon the animal economy and even
protect the system from dangerous outward
influences. Dr. Wilson of Edinburgh, has
also collected much valuable material on the
subject, and comes to the same conclusions
as Dr. Letheby. He takes the ground that
the human body requires for its nourish-
ment and support a supply of certain min-
eral salts, among which carbonate and phos-
phate of lime play an important part in
building up the compactness of the bones
and in other functions. We usually obtain
phosphate of lime in our animal and vege-
table food, but not from the water we drink.
Carbonate of lime, however, is not contained
in adequate quantity in our solid food, but
generally obtains in spring and well water.
	It has been incontestibly shown that in
mountainous districts, where the water is
more or less hard, the inhabitants exhibit
the best physical development. On the
other hand it is believed that in large cities
the mortality is inversely as the hardness of
water supplied to the inhabitants. A water
which contains about six grains of carbon-
ate of lime to the gallon is suitable for use
in all household purposes. As a drink and
for cooking food, such a water offers the nec-
essary carbonate of lime for the support of
life in the simplest, most natural and most
easily digested form, and is at the same
time more agreeable, fresh and sparkling.—
Selected.


ANECDOTE OF PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
	
	In a certain case in court Mr. Lincoln had
for his legal opponent, a lawyer, whose ex-
cellent character, thorough knowledge of
law, and superior logic combined to exert a
controlling influence over the jury. This
lawyer (whom we call Judge Jones) had
made a speech, and a most able argument it
was. It was necessary in some way to dis-
sipate its impression. Mr. Lincoln, in re-
ply, opened his speech substantially as fol-
lows:
	"May it please the court and gentlemen
of the jury, we have just heard the learned
and masterly argument on the other side.
We know how thoroughly versed in the law
is Judge Jones, and how upright he is, and
we say, really Judge Jones cannot be mista-
ken in his positions. We also know how
true a gentleman Judge Jones is, how irre-
proachable are his manners and dress; and
I presume if I should say to you that Judge
Jones had put on his shirt wrong side fore-
most this morning, you would reply it is
impossible—and yet Judge Jones has put
on his shirt wrong side foremost this morn-
ing; you can look for yourselves, gentlemen;
so in this case, he has got things wrong end
foremost, and his whole argument is wrong
from beginning to end."
	Surely enough the irreproachable lawyer,
while pondering over his coming speech,
had dressed himself in the mistaken man-
ner indicated. After the laugh had subsid-
ed, consequent upon the detection, Mr. Lin-
coln analyzed the argument of the Judge,
and won his case.


﻿MISS Chandler decided, some years since,
to found a charity for the paralyzed. There
was then no such thing in London. She be-
gan by taking care of a poor paralyzed car-
penter. As fast as she could she assumed
charge of more paralytics, one by one. she
has now opened a hospital for paralysis and
epilepsy, in Queen’s square, London. It is
not excelled by any of the same sort in the
world. She has also established a convales-
cent hospital, which is doing great good.
She has, moreover, secured the endowment
of forty-eight permanent annuities for in-
curable paralytics and epileptics. She is
now collecting a large amount of money to
be applied the same way.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MARY SOMERVILLE.

	The "Personal Recollections," from early
lifeto old age, of Mary Somerville, is a
volume that deserves commendation for
what it says and for the way it is said. The
name of Mrs. Somerville was long ago made
familiar to many persons, as that of the au-
thor of several good books on unfamiliar
scientific subjects—her writings were "The
Mechanism of the Heavens," "The Connec-
tion of the Physical Sciences," "Physical
Geography," Molecular and Microscopic Sci-
ence," and a number of papers for Scientific
Societies. Yet, in this account of her life,
we find that during the ninety-two years of
her long and useful career, there was no time
that she was not busied as other women are,
with the duties of a daughter, wife and 
mother. She lived in the midst of unsym-
pathetic family ties, and yet she mastered
the very greatest mathematical theories,
along with such a knowledge of French and
Latin and Greek as served in the education
of her own children in turn. It was not
until a second marriage, to Mr. Somerville,
that she had any encouragement in her own
home, to the work in which she found her
chiefest delight, and then she pursued it
with industry and with such success that
the foremost men of science of her own
country and of Europe welcomed her to their
own number. Our American scientific and
literary men, Pierce, of the Coast Survey,
Bowditch, Longfellow and others who are
referred to in her reminiscences, were no
doubt the more ready and anxious to testify
their admiration and regard for her because
in her veins was the blood of Washington
himself.
	Her maiden name was Fairfax, and she
claimed a common ancestry with the Fair-
faxes from whose stock Washington also
sprang. But a better claim upon American
affection and interest in her life and works
is found in the fact that she, who was one of
the best exponents of what a woman could
do, was ardently earnest in her belief th a
all women were entitled to better opportu-
nities of education; her scientific library—
the collection owed its best value to the
tributes sent her by men of science in all
countries of their works—was bequeathed
by her to the College for Women, near Cam-
bridge, England. Yet this advocate of 
women's right of the highest education, was
herself steady to the last in performing every
duty as a helpmeet and wife, in making her
own house the scene of a delightful social
life, in which her husband was always the
host and she there as his wife and the moth-
er of three children. With this simple ad-
herence to the custom of her early Scotch 
training, she united almost a genius for mul-
tifarious work; for, besides her scientific
studies, she kept up her sketching and paint-
ing, was passionately fond of animals and
of flowers; she seems to have a regular suc-
cession of pets—dogs, birds and horses—
while even in her last days her delight in-
spired her daughters in their search for ferns
and wild flowers in their Italian homes. It
is not wonderful that with such occupation
and so many resources her life was as busy
as well spent and the tranquil story of rem-
iniscences is a perfect reflection of that well-
balanced mind, which enabled her to carry
on the nicest scientific research in the midst
of household cares and duties. To read it is
to gain a lesson in that most difficult, yet
necessary task of so adjusting the duties
and pleasures of life as always to be at the
best in both, and this was the secret alike of
the fame and of the longevity of Mrs. Som-
erville.
	Her life was not without its trials, and
such as would with ordinary minds have
put an end to anything like the success
which crowned her indefatigable industry.
She tells simply and sadly, but not complain-
ingly, of the small encouragement her love
of knowledge received until she was a
grown woman, and she speaks in earnest, 
but not querulous tones, of the family and
domestic incident and affections of her
long life. But the same perseverance which
enabled her to master scientific problems
when she was a girl, in spite of harsh par-
ents and severe rules, stood her in good
stead, when in her ninety-second year she
was still able to read books on the higher
algebra. "Sometimes," she says, "I find
them difficult; but my old obstinacy remains,
for if I do not succeed to-day, I attack them
again on the morrow." With such energy
at such an age, we can guess what force it 
must have had in earlier years; and yet we
can learn it not from what she says of her-
self, but only from the letters addressed to
her by the great men of science who were
her contemporaries, and who wrote to her as
their equal co-laborer. The whole tone of the
book gives even to those who know nothing
of Mrs. Somerville as a scientific writer a
delightful picture of a woman whose life,
passing as it did far beyond the ordinary
span, was spent in doing good to and for
others, in the enjoyment of the simplest
pleasures of domestic life, and in the high-
est possible intellectual exercise.—Philadel-
phia Ledger.


CIVILITY AND SINCERITY.

	Shall we dispense with the small courte-
sies of everyday life? We have heard men
argue that we should. For instance, they 
would say, "What is the use of asking a 
man when you meet him how his health is,
or to bid him good morning; these are un-
meaning forms, and are frequently hypocrit-
ical inquiries about which the person who
makes them cares nothing."
	We suppose to carry out such persons'
views, men and women should pass through 
life without paying the least attention to 
those courtesies, which, in so many instan-
ces, make life agreeable. Would this be 
right? We think not. It is true there is a
great deal of empty formality indulged in 
by people of the world in their salutations
and inquiries as to one another's condition;
but shall we, on this account, dispense with
them altogether? Would it be well because
some people pray with their lips, while
their hearts are far from the Lord, for all to 
dispense with prayer? Certainly not. It is
agreeable to the feelings of the most of peo-
ple to have their fellows take interest in
them and in their welfare; and this is right
and proper. How grateful it is to the feel-
ings of a child to have its parents take an
interest in it; and how much parents are 
pleased by the kind attentions and courte-
sies of their children! These are the mani-
festations of love, and without them, social
intercourse would be cold and hard, and, in
many instances, joyless. It does not cost
much to say "Good morning, Papa; how
are you?" or to address the same salutation
or inquiry to a mother; and they show that
the thoughts of the child are upon its par-
ents, and that it feels an interest in their
welfare.
	A true gentleman or lady is known by
his or her regard for the rights and feelings
of others; and it is no mark of a lady or
gentleman to be churlish, uncouth, or to be
indifferent in regard to others feelings and
to their welfare. On these points many 
young people need cultivation. Politeness
ought to be made a habit, and children can-
not tell of how much value courtesy or true
politeness may be to them in their future
lives. A man may have high ability; but
if he lack courtesy, or what some call civil-
ity, he will not succeed in making friends
and in accomplishing great results like a
man who possesses the quality, though his
talents may be of a lower order. It is said
of one eminent man, the Duke of Marlbor-
ough, that his charming manners often
changed an enemy into a friend, and that
to be denied a favor by him was more pleas-
ing than to receive one from another man.
These personal graces were of great aid to
him in his career. Politeness has often
made scoundrels successful, while the best
of men by their hardness and coldness, hace
repelled people who would like to be their
friends. But, because scoundrels have mis-
used this means of making friends, it does
not follow that we must all throw it aside,
or think when we see politeness that it is 
an evidence of a hypocrite. There are per-
sons who pride themselves on always saying
what they think. "I am no hypocrite," 
say they, "I tell people what I think of
them." It is frequently the case, in follow-
ing this course, they wound feelings and do
great injury.
	It is right and proper that in all our inter-
course with one another, we should be can-
did. Our deportment towards our friends
should agree with our feelings. If  a person
commits a wrong, a true friend will not
conceal his feelings respecting it; but will
tell the wrong doer plainly and kindly that
his conduct has been improper. But he
should be sure, to begin with, that he him-
self is right, and not speak in haste and
from anger. There is a kindness of manner
which one friend can use to another, even
when administering a rebuke or describing
faults, that will touch and soften the feelings,
and produce lasting effects. Every person
should cultivate this manner, call it by what
name you please, politeness, courtesy or
civility.—Juvenile Instructor.


HINT TO PARENTS.—A wise father and
pure mother, if they have secured the con-
fidence of their children—and this can only
be secured by intimacy—need not fear ruin.
Youthful indiscretion will never be pro-
longed into vice, for the least act on the part
of the offspring will be no sooner committed
than imparted to the parent, who will thus
be able to check youthful imprudence, and
interpose his experienced wisdom as barrier
between the commission of a single impro-
priety and the formation of a vicious habit.
Many a youth, who has been lost, might
have been saved if parents has cultivated
a greater intimacy with their children


PRINCESS Beatrice, Queen Victoria's
youngest daughter, a girl of seventeen, is
to be married to Adolf Ereidrich, the heir
apparent to the duke of Mecklenburg-
Strelitz. The father of the expectant bride-
groom rules over less than 1000 square miles 
of Territory, but as he owns over half the
land, in his dominions, rules almost abso-
lately, and has saved a large private fortune. 
He will bequeath a very pretty estate to his
son, should the latter survive him and no
revolution overthrow the present state of
things in Germany.


CALIFORNIA exempts editors from jury
duty, believing they have trials enough of
their own.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	COMPOSITION by a little boy—Subject, 
"The Horse." "The horse is a very useful
animal; it has four legs—one on each cor-
ner."
	FORTY Iowa schoolma'ams couldn't tell
what an abstract question was, but every
one of them understood the meaning of pop
the question.
	A YOUNG country girl of Bethel, Pennsyl-
vania, is making for herself a pretty little
fortune by raising poultry. Last year she
cleared $330, after paying all expenses, and
this year she expects to do better yet.
	WOMAN'S inferiority.—The young women
who graduated at Ann Arbor along with
the boys, though they behaved better, stud-
ied as well, and shared the honors, couldn't
smoke the class pipe.
	THAT "Work is Worship" has long been
an axiom with many, but here is an exem-
plification of it from an unexpected source
—India. The Hindoo Patriot and Indian
Journal says that the famine has produced
a reformer in the person of Pundit AJOODA
PRASID, who has succeeded in teaching the
Hindoos that work is worship. He is him-
self a Brahmin of high caste, and has given
practical example by working steadily with
a pickaxe and hoe.—R. N. Y.
	MANAGING A HORSE.—Never whip your
horse for becoming frightened at any object
by the roadside; for if he sees a stump, a
log or a heap of tan bark in the road, and
while he is eyeing it carefully and about to
pass it, you strike him with the whip, it is
the log, or the stump, or the tan bark that
is hurting him, in his way of reasoning and
the next time he will act more frightened.
Give him time to examine and smell of all
these objects, and use the war bridle to assist
you in bringing him carefully to these ob-
jects of fear. Bring all objects, if possible,
to his nose, and let him smell of them, and
then you can commence to gentle him with
them.	A LIVING POP-GUN.—There is a little
fish, the Chætodon, abounding in the East-
ern seas, from Ceylon to Japan, which se-
cures its prey by means of an instrument
like the blow-pipe used by mischievous
school-boys for projecting peas and other
means of torment. The nose of the fish is
a kind of beak, through which he has the
power of propelling a drop of water with
force enough to disable a fly, preparatory to
swallowing it. His aim is accurate, and he
rarely misses his object. The unsuspecting
fly sits on a spray of weed, a twig, or a tuft
of grass, near the water, pluming himself in
the warm rays of the sun. The fish cau-
tiously places himself under the fly, stealth-
ily projects his tube from the water, takes a
sure aim, and lets fly. Down drops the lit-
tle innocent to be swallowed by the fish.


WOMAN'S PROGRESS.—One of the most
remarkable features of the new Illinois law
concerning married women is the authoriza-
tion of civil suits between husband and 
wife. A married woman may do business
on her own account, with the same rights
and liabilities as if she were unmarried, ex-
cept as to partnership business, which she
cannot enter without her husband's consent,
unless he is idiotic or insane, has abandoned
or deserted her, or is confined in the peni-
tentiary.


PREFER diligence before idleness, unless
you esteem rust before brightness.—Plato.


DIVERSIONS.

	WEATHER report—A thunder clap.
	A PAIR of drawers—A span of truck 
horses.
	SURE to produce short crops—The barber's 
shears.
	WHEN does a chair dislike you? When
it can't bear you.
	WHY is an industrious woman like a
clock? Because her hands are incessantly
at work.
	IF it takes a man two days to make a
post-hole in broken ground, how long will it
take him to make a broken post whole?
	"ARE there any fools in this town?"
asked a stranger of a newsboy. "I don't
know," replied the boy; "are you lone-
some?"
	THE mayor of a Portugese city once enu-
merated, among the marks by which the
body of a drowned man might be identi-
fied, "A marked impediment in his speech."
	"HAVE you got a little Indian there?"
said the engineer, as we passed a young
squaw with a pappoose, standing at a depot
on the Pacific Railroad. "No," she an-
swered; half Injun, half Injuneer."
	"BRETHREN." said a young Quaker lately
married, "I have married a daughter of the
Lord!" "Ye have, eh!" ejaculated an
Irishman. "It'll be a long time before ye'll
see yer father-in-law."
	"WHAT are you catching my trout for?"
cried an irascible old gentleman to a young
man whom he found fishing on his place,
and who utterly silenced him by coolly say-
ing, "Who wants to catch your trout? I'm
only trying to drown this worm!"
	"THAT dog of yours flew at me this morn-
ing and bit me on the leg, and I notify you
that I intend to shoot it the first time I see 
it." "The dog is not mad." "Mad! I know
he's not mad. What has he got to be mad
about? It's I that am mad."
	SQUABBLES, and old bachelor, showed his
stockings, which he had just darned to a
maiden lady, who contemptuously remarked,
"Pretty good for a man darner"—Where-
upon Squabbles remarked, "And good
enough for a woman darn her."
	AMONG the gifts of a bride was a broom,
with the following:
		"This trifling gift accept of me;
		     Its use I would commend;
		In sunshine use the brushy part,
		     In storms, the other end."
	JOB'S patience wasn't a circumstance to
that of an American judge, who listened
silently for two days while a couple of 
wordy lawyers contended about the con-
struction of an Act of the Legislature, and
then ended the controversy by quietly re-
marking, "Gentlemen, the law is repealed."	"NOTHING," said an impatient husband,
"reminds me of Balaam and his ass as two
women stopping in church and obstructing
the way, to indulge in their everlasting
talk." "But you forget, my dear," returned
the wife, meekly, "that it was the angel
who stopped the way, and Balaam and his
ass who complained of it."
	THE other night a weak-eyed boy was sit-
ting in Ames' church, wholly forgetful of
his surroundings, and lost in beatific con-
templation of a certain young woman, touch-
ing whom he cherished violent designs, 
when suddenly a hand was laid upon his
shoulder, and a deep contralto voice thun-
dered in his ear: "Young man, you look as 
though you wanted to go to Jesus! Won't
you come to Jesus?" Whereupon he was
struck all of a heap, as it were, and stam-
mered: "I would—I want—that is, I should
like to go, you know, but not this evening,
thank you; I have an engagement."


A LITTLE Troy boy, who was worrying
over a piece of shad at dinner lately, demor-
alized his mother by asking—"Mamma,
where did God find all the bones to make
the first shad of?"


H. DINWOODEY

Has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store on
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER,

			Where he is prepared to do a
WHOLESALE AS WELL AS A RETAIL BUSINESS.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.

			DOCTOR CROCKWELL.

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a specialty. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.


				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies, 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club			-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club			-	-	-	-	-	   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16,
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling 
	price, $2 50	-	-	-	-	-	  	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-  	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions 
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all  names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially  Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.﻿

VOL. 3. 			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1874.			NO. 7.﻿


ABOUT A UTAH LADY.

	Recently we had the pleasure of per-
using an account of a lady of this place—
the wife of a prominent citizen—which ap-
peared in the "New Mexico Advertiser,"
published at Las Vegas, New Mexico.
Thinking it will be of interest to many we
insert it. "Mrs. Emiline Kesler, one of the
wives of the Mormon Bishop Kesler of
Utah, after a stay of about six months in
several parts of this Territory investigating
thoroughly our social condition, etc., stop-
ped a few days in our city and starts this
afternoon or to-morrow for Salt Lake City,
via Pueblo. She was one of the pilgrims in
the great exodus from Navoo, Illinois, to the
New Jerusalem of the Utah Valley, and,
though then the mother of several children
she possesses still a fresh complexion, re-
markable physical vigor and intellectual
energy, which speaks more in behalf of the
much misrepresented and abused Mormons
than whole volumes could say.
	The short hour passed in earnest conver-
sation with said lady has afforded us a real
intellectual treat.
	Among many other sober observations,
Mrs. Kesler remarked that: If all the faults
of both the Mormon and Gentile schemes
should be shown in parallel lines, Mormon-
ism (with all its defects) would, by far carry
out the victory. For in Mormonism every
woman may have a husband and protector
if she wishes; while in Gentiledom not even
one third of the females can obtain a legal
husband in matrimony: the only way in
which woman can be crowned with the
brightest Diadem on earth; maternity. And
she adds: It is self-evident truth that it is
more honorable for a woman to be a second
or third wife of an honest and healthy man
by whom she may have several legitimate
children than to be the first concubine of a
gentleman(?) who can only give her bas-
tards or be every body's harlot for the con-
sideration of a few pennies as it happens
in Gentledom where owing to the so-called
Christian civilization and abnormal social
condition more than two thirds of the wo-
men see themselves obliged to pass a sad
life.
	Mrs. Kesler has been several times at the
polls, casting her vote for the rulers of Utah,
a fact that shows the freedom and respect
which the females of Utah enjoy. Wishing
her a pleasant trip, we leave to the wisdom
of our readers any comments on these sad
facts and naked truths."


A corespondent of the San Jose "Mercury"
asks the editor to explain why  woman is
carved in stone to represent Union, Elo-
quence, Fame and Truth, to ornament our
State Capitol—allowed no share in the Na-
tional speech-making yet represent Elo-
quence; should avoid publicty, yet represent
Fame; may not speak from the pulpit, yet
made the emblem of Truth?


MISS Francis Wrinkle of Lee, Mass., has
taken the prize of $10, awarded to the High
School students for the best composition on
Temperance, by the State Total Abstinence
Society.


THE SEX.

	MISS Emma Albani, the Albany prima
donna, is having an extraordinary success at
Covent Garden Opera, in Thomas's "Mig-
non."
	MISS Harriet Upton has bequeathed $1,
000 to the City of Salem, Mass., the inter-
est to be devoted to the poor every Thanks-
giving Day.
	MISS Emily Addis Fawcett has received
the medal of the London Society for the En-
couragement of Arts, Manufactures and
Commerce, for the best specimen of shell-
cameo cutting.
	MRS. C. E. Turner, of Ames, Iowa, has
been appointed to the chief management of
the editorial department of Dr. Sprague's
"Western Farm Journal," and has entered
upon the discharge of her duties.
	MRS. Martha Magee, 35 years old, of Gyn-
thiana County, Ky., owns 400 acres of land
in the blue grass region, and raises cattle
and takes them to market like other drovers.
She is a smart woman, and is respected by
the other drovers.
	LADY Amberley, who died a few weeks
since at her home in England, is well re-
membered in New York for her intelligence,
vivacity, and the deep interest she took in
every enterprise that could elevate the so-
cial condition or promote the interests of
women.
	MRS. J. B. Walker, of New Orleans, has
ready for publication a volume in memory 
of Captain Joseph Fry, commander of the 
ill-starred Virginius. The book is to be
published and sold exclusively for the bene-
fit of his destitute widow and seven chil-
dren.
	MRS. Mary C. Wilber, widow of the first
president of the Cincinnati Female College,
was honored by receiving the degree of A.
M. from that Institution, at its recent Com-
mencement. Mrs. Wilber is one of the 
board of instruction in the college.
	IT is a good thing for women to be able
to swim. Example: A few weeks ago, in
England, two boys went to bathe near King's
Cross, from a boat near shore. One got
beyond his depth, and would certainly have
been drowned, had not the cries of his com-
panions brought Miss Eliza Shaw, an excel-
lent swimmer, to the water, who instantly
plunged in, as she was, and caught the boy
just as he was sinking.


YOUTHFUL EXPERIENCE.

	The celebrated Prof. Tindal, in speaking
of his own life, says:—Not as a servant of
Mammon do I ask you to take science to
your hearts, but as the strengthener and
enlightener of the mind of man. Might I
now address a word or two to those who in
the ardor of youth feel themselves drawn
towards science as a vocation. They must,
if possible, increase their facility to origi-
nal research, prizing far more than the
possession of wealth an honorable standing
in science. They must, I think, be prepared
at times to suffer a little for scientific
righteousness, not refusing, should occasion
demand it, to live low and lie hard to achive
the object of their lives. I do not here
urge anything upon others that I should
have been unwilling to do myself when
young. Let me give you a line of personal
history. In 1848, wishing to improve my-
self in science, I went to the university of
Marburg—the same old town in which my
great namesake, when even poorer than
myself, published his transaction of the
Bible. I lodged in the plainest manner, in
a street which, perhaps, bore a appropriate
name while I dwelt upon it. It was called
the Ketzerbach—the heretic’s brook—from
a little historic rivulet runing through it.
I wished to keep myself clean and hardy;
so I purchased a cask and had it cut in two
by a carpenter. Half that cask, filled with
spring water over night, was placed in my
small bed-room, and never during the years
that I spent there, in winter or in summer,
had the clock of the beautiful Elizabether-
kirche, which was close at hand, finished
striking the hour of 6 in the morning be-
fore I was in my tub. For a good portion
of the time I rose an hour and a half earlier
than this, working by lamplight at the dif-
ferential calculus when the world was slum-
bering around me. And I risked this breach
in my pursuits and this expenditure of
time and money, not because I had any defi-
nite prospect of material profit in view, but
because I thought the cultivation of the
intellect important—because, moreover,
I loved my work, and entertained the
sure and certain hope that armed with
knowledge, one can successfully fight one's
way through the world. It is with the
view of giving others the chance that I
then enjoyed that I propose to devote the
surplus of the money which you have so
generously poured in upon me. In the edu-
cation of the young philosophers in Ger-
many, I ought not, for their sake to omit one
additional motive by which I was upheld at
the time here referred to—that was a sense
of duty. Every young man of high aims
must, I think, have a spice of this principle
within him. There are sure to be hours in
his life when his outlook will be dark, his
work difficult, and his intellectual future
uncertain. Over such periods, when the
stimulous of success is absent, he must be
carried by his sense of duty. It may
not be so quick an incentive to glory, but
is a nobler one, and gives a tone to the char-
acter that glory cannot impart. That un-
flinching devotion to work, without which
no real eminence in science is now attaina-
ble, implies the writing at certain times of
the stern resolve upon the students charac-
ter. "I work, not because I like to work,
but because I ought to work." In science,
however, hope and duty are sure to be ren-
dered identical in the end.


"LOVE," says an amorous writer, "is an
internal transport" The same might be
said of a canal boat.
	"I HOPE your honor is not hurt" said a
passer-by to Judge G., who had fallen upon
a slippery side-walk. "No," said the Judge,
sternly, my honor is not hurt, but my head
is."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


BE A WOMAN.

		   SELECTED.

Oft I've heard a gentle mother,
	As the twilight hours began,
Pleading with a son on duty,
	Urging him to be a man.
But unto the blue-eyed daughter,
	Though with love's words quite as ready
Points she out the other duty—
	"Strive, my dear, to be a lady."

What's a lady? Is it something
	Made of hoops, and silks, and airs,
Used to decorate the parlor,
	Like the fancy rugs and chairs?
Is it one that wastes on novels
	Every feeling that is human?
If 'tis this to be a lady,
	'Tis not this to be a woman.

Mother, then, unto your daughter,
	Speak of something higher far,
Than to be mere fashion's lady—
	"Woman" is the brightest star.
If you, in your strong affection,
	Urge your son to be a man,
Urge your daughter no less strongly—
	To arise and be a woman.

Yes, a woman! brightest model
	Of that high and perfect beauty,
Where the mind and soul and body
	Blend to work out life's great duty.
Be a woman! naught is higher
	On the gilded crest of fame:
On the catalogue of vlitue,
	There's no brighter, holier name.

Be a woman! on to duty!
	Raise the world from all that's low,
Place high in the social heaven
	Virtue's fair and radiant bow.
Lend thy influence to each effort
	That shall raise our nature human,
Be not fashion's gilded lady—
	Be a brave, whole-souled, true woman


R.S. REPORTS.

	Minutes of a meeting of the Young La-
dies' Retrenchment Associations of Salt
Lake City, held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, August 29th, 1874.
	Meeting opened with singing, "Arise my
soul arise." Prayer by Counselor Mrs.
Zina D. Young. Singing, "Glorious things
are sung of Zion."
	It was moved and seconded that Mrs.
Maggie M. Groo act as Secretary of the
meeting.
	The following Wards were represented:
the 2nd, 4th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 17th and 19th. The minutes of
the Junior Associations of the 8th and 11th
Wards were read.
	Remarks by President Mrs. M. I. Horne:
—If there is one thing I like more than an-
other, it is to see you young ladies stepping
forward and striving to do your duty. To
me it is a cheering sight. If you seek for
the Spirit of God you will be enabled to
speak such things as will be beneficial to one
another. The ideas that are advanced by
you young ladies are excellent; continue in
the way you are going and when you be-
come aged you can look back upon your for-
mer days with pleasure. We ought to feel
thankful that we are living in the days when
there are prophets and apostles, and appre-
ciate the blessings which God has bestowed
upon us. One should not depend upon an-
other, but each should know for herself that
this is the Kingdom of God. By the still
small voice of the Holy Spirit you can know,
and by asking of God your Heavenly Father.
I hope you will all fit and qualify yourselves
to fill responsible positions, and that your
lives will be such as will be worthy of imi-
tation. After many other good remarks she
said, "May God bless you is my prayer in
the name of Jesus."
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said:—I can
truly say that I am gratified with what I
see before me. If there should be another
meeting of this kind, we want each Ward
Association to bring the minutes of one
meeting. The young ladies of Ogden rep-
resent a large assembly and we thought that
if the Young Ladies' Associations of this city
could be brought together, there would be as
many as those who met in Ogden. Sister
Horne has been speaking about your filling
the positions that we are now filling: You
will have to fill greater positions as you have
greater privileges and blessings than we
had when we were young. When I was
young and attended Sunday school and re-
peated passages of Scripture concerning
Christ and his apostles, and the miracles
they performed, I used to wish that I had
lived in those days, and thought those who
lived then were greatly blessed. Do we
appreciate the blessings we have in these
days when there are prophets and apostles?
True, we do not have Jesus in person, but
we have his spirit. Does each one of you
know that this gospel is true? Your pa-
rents know by testimonies which they have
received, and it is your privilege, each one
of you, to know that this work is true but
you must seek for the knowledge if you
would obtain it. It is the privilege of each
young lady here before me to become a
queen in heaven. This is the design of our
Heavenly Father; but you cannot attain to
this without preparing yourselves for it by
keeping the commandments of God, and
serving Him with your whole hearts. To
live your religion, will not deprive you of
any true enjoyment. Our aim in exhorting
you to be truly Saints, is to increase your
happiness—to guide you to that which is
higher, nobler and purer than all earthly
things can possibly impart—that which the
Spirit of God alone can bestow. In the
minutes of your meetings are many testi-
monies from those who know that this is the
Kingdom of God. Let me exhort you, my
young sisters, to be energetic in attendance
of your meetings. You cannot attach too
much importance to them. After other in-
structions, Miss Snow blest the young ladies,
and was followed by
	Mrs. Z. D. Young, who said that it
takes a good deal of moral courage at
present, with all the variety of influ-
ences in our midst, for the young to live the
religion of the Gospel. She cited the atten-
tion of the young sisters to the position of
Adam and Eve in the garden of Eden and
said it was their privilege, hereafter to stand
in the same position as Eve, at the head of
a world; and exhorted them to prepare them-
selves for all that is in store for the faithful.
She said: Sister Snow is willing to render
you all the assistance she can; it does not
diminish her stock of knowledge but in-
creases yours. You should keep a diary,
and pen down what occurs of interest each
day, also write your thoughts so that when
you write a letter you can write it readily
without hesitation. You should never be
afraid to ask whether you are right or
wrong; go to your mothers with your trou-
bles and ask their advice. I ask God to
bless you.
	Counselor Mrs. S. M. Kimball said:—I
feel to ask an interest in your faith and
prayers that I may be able to speak to you.
Sister Snow said she had been anxious for
the welfare of the young for the last four
years but to my certain knowledge she has
been anxious for a great number of years.
It would be very beneficial to hear you young
ladies speak but you will another day.  The
majority of the young ladies are not here
to-day. I ask God to bless you.
	Coun. Mrs. E. Howard made interesting
remarks, with words of wise counsel, en-
treating the young sisters to put in practice
what they had heard, etc.
	Counselor E. R. Snow said that if it would
be agreeable there would be another meet-
ing of the same kind four weeks from to-
day; and that Mrs. E. Barney proposed to
teach a class of young ladies in reading.
	Mrs. Barney made some excellent remarks.
Mrs. W. East bore her testimony to what
had been said. It was moved and unani-
mously carried that the proposed meeting
take place. Meeting then adjourned for
four weeks. Singing, "Praise God from
whom all blessings flow." Benediction by
Mrs. W. East.

	RICHMOND, CACHE Co., Aug. 19th, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The young ladies of this place are very
much interested in our Retrenchment As-
sociation and already begin to realize
something of the importance of meeting
together to exchange ideas, thereby improv-
ing their own. In our tenth meeting, held
Aug. 12th, we had an excellent time; Sisters
Mary Freeze and Clara Conrad, of Salt Lake
City, being present. After singing and
prayer, Pres. Miss Mary Stewart read an or-
iginal essay on "Gratitude," (the subject
chosen for this meeting) and made a few en-
couraging remarks. Sister Mary Freeze, in
her remarks, said, "We do not know the
talents God has blessed us with, until we
try to improve ourselves and this is the
place to improve our minds. We are des-
tined to become great women, and if we
turn aside it were better for us that we had
never received the light. Every young
lady who joins this Association with the de-
sire of improving, will feel the Spirit of
God in her heart. Our spirits were reserved
to come forth in the "last days" to perform
a great work, and for this we should be
grateful." Sister Clara Conrad remarked,
while speaking; girls if you marry young
men who are lukewarm do not let them
make you so but live nearer to the Lord and
encourage your husband to do the same.
Women, as a general rule, do not realize
the great amount of influence they possess
over their husbands and if their influence
is properly used great good can be done.
Several other sisters addressed the meeting
and expressed themselves much pleased
with the instructions given.
	Our Association is constantly increasing
in numbers, there being at present about
fifty members. Our select readings consist
of articles from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
Journal of Discourses, and other appropri-
ate books and papers. But the EXPONENT
is our favorite from which to select pieces
for reading, and we pray for its continued
success,
	MISS MARY STEWART, PRESIDENT;
		MISS PHEBE MERRILL, Secretary.

	NEPHI JUAB Co., Aug, 15th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Nephi Relief Society held their
yearly meeting on the eleventh of July.
There was a good attendance both of breth-
ren and sisters. Our pleasure was greatly
enhanced by an unexpected visit from Bros.
Smoot and Dusenbury, of Provo, Bro. Bring-
hurst of Springville, and by the presence of
our Bishop and his counselors. They all
manifested great interest in our welfare and
prosperity; gave us much good counsel; en-
couraged us to go on, and do all the good in
our power; to meet together often and en-
courage each other, which the faithful few
still continue to do realizing it is only
through faithfulness that they will obtain


the favored reward, Our Financial Report
is not as flattering as it sometimes is, still,
we have plenty to supply the wants of the
poor and some to spare.
	On the same day that our yearly meeting
occurred, myself with several other sisters
prepared a little surprise party for our be-
loved President. After meeting commen-
ced—our arrangements having been made
beforehand—two sisters slipped out of meet-
ing, went to her house, obtained the door
key from her fun loving husband and ar-
ranged everything while she was absent.
The brethren from Provo and Springville—
who happily surprised us all—were let into
the secret and requested to follow her home
in company with the brethren of this place
that had been invited. Her counselors pro-
posed to go home with her which she
thought quite unusual for them. When she
got near home, she remarked to them that
the brethren seemed to be all going her
way, wished she had a good supper ready
that she could invite them to partake of
but, at any rate would ask them to call and
take a glass of home-made wine, which she
did and which invitation they accepted.
Imagine her surprise, when she came to her
door, found it open and a well filled table,
spread the entire length of the room. We
kept our secret well for she had not received
the least hint of it or even suspected any-
thing. She was so overcome at the expres-
sion of good feelings towards her that,
though she could say but very little, her
eyes told her gratitude to her heavenly
Father and her friends for such a manifes-
tation of respect and esteem, of which she
is well worthy. All went off pleasantly, and
we had a good time together.
	Wishing you succes with your valuable
paper, I remain Your Sister in the Gospel.
			AMY L. BIGLER, Secretary.

	SANTAQUIN, UTAH Co., Aug. 24th, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation was organized Sept, 11th, 1873, with
Mrs. Mary Ann Stickney for President; Mrs.
Hannah Kirkman, Mrs. Julia D. Wilson,
Mrs. Caroline Maxham, Miss Edar Teitgen,
Miss Alice Wall and Miss Caroline Larson, for
Counselors, Mrs. Ann J. Stickney for Secre-
tary, and Miss Caroline Butler for Treasurer.
We have also a Teacher's Quorum; composed
of eight young ladies with a president.
	Our meetings are well attended and we all
feel well in the work in which we are en-
gaged. About forty of the members met
on the 21st inst. and spent the day, besides
partaking of a picnic-dinner, in quilting,
and sewing patch work and carpet rags for
the benefit of the Relief Society until 4 p.
m. when, according to adjournment, we
commenced our meeting which was opened
with prayer. The minutes of the last
meeting were read and accepted. Selec-
tions from the EXPONENT and other papers
were read and remarks were made by quite
a number of the sisters. Bro. Levi Han-
cock, who, being in the place, had been in
vited to meet with us, also made some very
encouraging remarks in favor of the Young
Ladies' Association. Meeting adjourned to
Sept. 3rd. Closed with prayer by Bro.
Hancock.
MRS MARY ANN STICKNEY, President,
		MRS. ANN J. STICKNEY, Secretary.

		PAYSON, UTAH Co. Aug. 27th, 1874.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The Relief Society of this place held its
fifth Annual meeting August 18th. Meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer;
followed by the calling of the roll and read-
ing of the minutes of last meeting. The
Financial Report, for the past year was
read which showed that during the year
the Society had given to the poor $127; to
the St. George Temple $53: and to the Tem-
ple in Salt Lake City $20.
	Pres. Mrs. Jane Simons spoke of the
organization and good results of the Relief
Society. Bishop J. S. Tanner and Elder T.
M. Coombs spoke about the United Order,
the laws and regulations of which were
read by Elder Coombs. Mrs. A. M. Snyder
read an original composition. Elders C.
Simons, W. Wignall, and H. Moore fol-
lowed with excellent remarks. Pres. Jane
Simons extended an invitation to all
present to partake of a picnic repast pre-
pared by the Teachers and a few of the
members, also desired their prayers in be-
half of her Counselor Agnes Douglass, who
was not well. Benediction by Elder I. M.
Coombs.
		MRS. JANE SIMONS, President,
			MRS. M. A. HARDY, Secretary.

		MONA, JUAB Co., Aug. 21st, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Since the organization of the Relief So
ciety in this place a good many poor have
been relieved by it; and money has been
gathered to assist the emigration of the
poor Saints in foreign lands. A good spirit
prevails in our meetings, but they are not
always well attended. Much more good
could be done if the sisters were more
punctual in attending.
	I have reflected much upon the United
Order which has been organized at St. George
and accepted in many places. I feel to thank
my heavenly Father for His goodness in
giving to us this holy Order, and strive to
renew my diligence that I may ever be
ready to receive the word of the Lord and
obey it.
	With many wishes for the success of your
valuable paper, I subscribe myself your
sister in the Gospel.				E. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.				51


For the EXPONENT.
	     WOMAN, HER SPHERE.

	In the first place, woman is to be a help-
meet to man. This sentence alone comprises
a great deal; it is not to be expected that
she will do a man's work but she should not
feel degraded in performing her household
duties as far as lays in her power; by doing
this she can become a great help to her hus-
band. Another very important thing; she
should improve her mind by the aid of every
good and useful book, for this is a duty she
owes to herself and also to her posterity.
We can scarcely realize what a benefit it is
to children to have a mother who is well
educated and who understands her religion
for herself as is her privilege. They are
taught correct language and true principles
from the beginning, consequently they grow
up in the right path and when this is the
case they are not likely to depart from the
truth. On the other hand it is reprehensi-
ble in the highest degree for a mother to
waste her time reading novels or any of the
foolish literature with which the world
abounds. In regard to fashion; there are
higher and nobler things that should occupy
her thoughts. She should not dress to look
odd and different from every body else but
she can dress with neatness and taste with-
out taking pattern from any one, or racking
her brain for hours; and perhaps days, to
take or obtain something she has seen
somebody else wear. In fine she should
strive to be a Saint in every thought, word


and deed, and this will teach her at all times
the right course to pursue.


FLOWERS.

	BE slow to take when strangers haste to
give.
	BE praised not for your ancestors, but for
your own virtues.
	FOR men to search out their own glory is
not glory.
	TRUTH sometimes tastes like medicine,
but that is an evidence that we are ill.
	LEARNING is wealth to the poor, an hon-
or to the rich, aid to the young, and a sup-
port and comfort to the aged.
	USE whatever talent you possess. The
woods would be very silent if no birds were
to sing there but those who sing best.
	A GREAT step is gained when a child has
learned that there is no necessary connec-
tion between liking a thing and doing it.
	BETTER be right than conquer in an argu-
ment. Better bear the assumption of ig-
norant men than waste your dearly bought
experience on fools.
	THERE is a certain softness of manner
which in either man or woman, adds a
charm that almost entirely compensates for
lack of external beauty.
	JUST as a mother grieves over her child's
weakness and faultiness, but still loves him
most tenderly, so God cherishes us, not-
withstanding all our frailty.
	LAZINESS grows on people; it begins in
cobwebs, and end in iron chains. The more
business a man has to do the more he is able
to accomplish, for he learns to economize his
time.
	NOTHING more powerful argues a life be-
yond this than the failure of ideals here.
Earth gives us but fragments of humanity,
fragments of heart, fragments of mind, frag-
ments of charity, love and virtue, and in-
stead of being a world, is only a handful of
seeds out of which a full blown world might
grow, but has not yet grown.


THE SEX.

	MISS Ellen M. Soule of Sing Sing. N. Y.,
has been elected dean of the Woman's col-
lege at Evanston. Miss Soule will also fill
the chair of French in the Northwestern
University.
	MISS Lavinia Goodell, who has just been
admitted to the bar in Wisconsin, is a
daughter of the venerable William Goodell,
now upwards of eighty years of age, and
who was so long identified with journalism
in Providence, Boston, Utica and New York.
	MRS. Harriet N. Flint has purchased the
old hotel estate at North Reading, Mass., and
will erect a commodious building, contain-
ing a hall, and rooms for public library and
town offices, which she proposes to main-
tain for that town forever. Mrs. Flint was
for a long time, a resident of North Reading,
and her name has been connected with
many charitable actions.


A FRENCHMAN, struggling to learn the
English language, replied thus to friendly
salutations: "How do you do; Monsieur?" 
"Do vat?" "How do you find yourself?" "I
never looses myself." "Well, then, how do
you feel?" Smooth: you just feel me."
"Good-morning, Monsieur.', "Good! no,
it's a bad one; it's vet and muddy."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
CORNELIA , H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT. 15, 1874.


[For the EXPONENT.
	HINTS ON EDUCATION.

	By looking around I am convinced that
the youth of this land, and indeed all lands,
perhaps, are but poorly taught the true ob-
jects of life. The race, in general are led
mainly by impulse the result of which, as
experience proves, are very deplorable and
should be remedied; not that I would wish
the vivacity and ardor of youth extinguished
in their breasts, but that it should be gov-
erned by intellect—that all our conduct
should have the sanction of the highest or-
der of judgment and morality. Any
other course in life will, of necessity result
in mischievous consequences and often in
the destruction of the greater part of our
future happiness.
	To perform the animal functions of our
nature seems to consume the time, health,
and strength, and happiness of a vast num-
ber of mankind; none of the faculties pro-
per to man are exercised otherwise than
as a means to minister to animal gratifica-
tion which is to a great extent, blamable to
the lack of proper education.
	I do not believe as some do, that to suffer
here will enhance our happiness in the
world to come. The laws of our physical
and mental organization should be taught
to all; and to comply with their require-
ments should produce a constant spring of
joy, and happiness, and all should be taught
as to the adaptability to these laws to their
God-ordained office. How full of advice
and warning, would be a page from the his-
tory and experience of many mothers to
their daughters; yet how few get it! How
much happiness, and how many lives are
sacrificed to the rearing of a large family
where the parental constitution says, only a
small one should have been reared. Many
young folks engage in marriage, and, for a
momentary pleasure, sacrifice their real hap-
piness, yet know no better until sad exper-
ience teaches them their folly.
	It appears to me the word "education" is
but little understood. To understand the
laws of our being and how to secure means
for proper obedience to them, should be the
basis of education and the object of all
teaching. It would be folly to teach a girl
the arts of agriculture, manufactures, etc. in
in preference to domestic duties and the
training of the young, yet how much nearer
is their usual training calculated to fit them
for the duties of their sex, in general?
The education that girls commonly receive
does not teach them such duties or their
nature but, to the contrary, engenders false
tastes and, to a degree, deteriorates them
for the performance of such duties. This
is especially true where great educational
faculties are enjoyed.
	To die, is not the normal destiny of in-
fants, yet, how many do, or I might have
asked how few do not! had the mothers
learned what the writer thinks they should,
their children would have lived, but as it is
many die because of ignorance. This is
painful to reflect upon. The knowledge
here indicated, given to girls would be su-
perior to to any other, because their in-
terests in eternity, as well as their present
happiness depend upon their actions here.
All who ever came to this earth, came to
mature but through the ignorance of those
who had their charge, very many have left
before half—yes, before their lives were
scarcely begun. That we should mature, is
the intention of our Maker. Age with its
gray locks is our destiny by nature, is one of
the greatest honors and is one of God's
best gifts to man, without which his life is
a partial failure.
	Then, mothers, teach your girls the true
objects and laws of life; teach them what
true happiness is and how to gain it; and
how to preserve those immortal buds to
body and spirit, which God may give them,
in health and consequently in beauty; that
they may wear the gray hairs of honorable
old age and when the ardor of youth has
given place to judgment, and youthfulness
to age they may reflect with pleasure upon
their past experience.			E. T.
	RICHFIELD, SEVIER, CO.


A WORD TO THE SISTERS.
"Come, let us reason together, saith the Lord."
	Mothers, do we realize our positions and the
responsibility resting upon us. "In the first
place let us begin at the beginning;" we cove-
nanted at the alter to be true and faithful to
the one whom above all others, we had select-
ed to go hand in hand with through life; to
him who had also covenanted to cherish, pro-
tect, and provide for us.
	When we went forth in the waters of bap-
tism, we covenanted with the Lord to do all
that was right in his sight as far as he would
give us knowledge. "Jesus said, "Seek ye
first the kingdom of God and his righteousness;
and all these things shall be added unto you;"
so, according to this, God will bless with
knowledge and strength as their day all those
who earnestly seek his blessings. If we would
keep those Covenants we have entered into, we
must keep them to the best of our knowledge
and ability; as wives we must be faithful in all
things; if we see our husbands giving way to
the influence of evil or being remiss in their
duties, it is then we can show our watchful
and loving care over them by living our reli-
gion and earnestly praying to our Father and
God to help us in bringing them again in the
line or path of duty; for we well know it is the
Priesthood, that Satan will hurl his forces
against, seeking their destruction because of
the power that God has conferred upon them.
Then let us be watchful and seek to help build
up our husbands and defend the Holy Priest-
hood, God has again placed upon the earth.
	Now we come to the most important part of 
our mission "Our children;" can we be called
faithful to our husbands and to our Father and
God if we neglect our children and do not train
them to serve God and keep His command-
ments; if we do not educate them to the best
of our ability and give each one a trade or a
profession that will elevate him or her and
help them to be useful members of society; an
honor to their parents, and a blessing to the
Church and kingdom of God? Some of my
sisters will say, perhaps, "It is not our place.
The responsibility rests upon our husbands."
Sisters, will you stand idly by and see your
sons going to destruction and your daughters
being led blindly to their ruin and not seek to
save them by every means in your power?
Let us each begin at home and try now to save
our own children. We should commence
whilst they are young, to take or send them to
Sunday School; as soon as they are old enough,
take them to meeting with us, and teach them
to be quiet and orderly in the House of God
which to us is a very important point; teach
them by our own acts and example to respect
the Servants of God and to be obedient to
their fathers, ourselves and all the authorities
placed over them; teach the boys to have con-
fidence in us; counsel them to learn a trade
helping them to find one congenial to their
feelings and, above all things, keep them from
the evil company now around us, for, no matter
how nice they may appear, their business is to
pull down what we have helped to build, to
destroy what we seek by every means in our
power to save—viz.: our children—it also be-
hoves us to be very careful in selecting teachers
and places where our children can be educated
in the different branches that shall fit and pre-
pare them for the battle of life.
	We may, perhaps, know some that are per-
fect in their business qualifications but will
they be found fit in their religious principles,
or will they seek by every means in their
power to instill into the minds of the young
that poison that will kill the germ of truth
and righteousness we have so carefully planted
there? These are things to be looked after and
the evil shunned. Some may ask, "What
would you do if your children had already been
suffered to run wild without occupation, only
as they felt inclined and had become head-
strong, disobedient, etc.;" retrace your steps,
humble yourselves in mighty prayer and seek
to find the key to that boy's or that girl's heart;
seek to obtain their confidence, lead them care-
fully, point out kindly the evils of their course,
and throw around them all the influences for
good that you possibly can, and God will surely
crown your efforts with success and you will
have saved a soul and that soul your own flesh
and blood.
	I do not wish, nor mean that we should set
ourselves up in opposition to our husbands but
that we should do our whole duty; and in those
instances where husbands and fathers seem in-
different concerning their children it is plainly
the mother's duty to save her children by every
means in her power.
	Thinking that this subject is too important
to be fully entered into in this article we hope
to resume it in our next.				E. D.


UTAH AFFAIRS.	
	We acknowledge receipt of a neat pamphlet
bearing the title of "Utah Affairs. Congress
and Polygamy. Including the Poland Bill,'
which, on examination we find to be a series
of letters that appeared in the Des. News, over
the signature of "Veritas." The author says
that he "has used, very generally, the langauge
of prominent and distinguished parties, know-
ing that such matter has the greater weight."
Those who desire information on the foregoing
subjects will doubtless find this work well wor-
thy of a perusal. For sale at the Deseret News
Office. Price twenty-five cents.


TO AGENTS AND SUBSCRIBERS.

	Deeming it more convenient for our patrons,
we have arranged with Mr. James Dwyer,
Book-seller, Main Street, to deliver the EXPO-
NENT to City Agents who will please call there
for their papers hereafter. They will be [-]ut up


at this office, and if any mistakes should occur,
with either our city or country subscribers
please communicate with us directly so that
they may be rectified. Always in remiting
subscriptions, give the name and address of
each subscriber in full and distinctly written
also state the amount of each subscription and
when it is to commence. Much trouble is often
saved by prompt attention to these little mat-
ters.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	AT THE Museum, we were recently shown a
piece of the rock of Gibraltar; also a medal of
pure silver, struck in 1765 in "commemoration 
of the labors of the Freiberg School of mines,"
and representing the mode, at that time, of
mining and smelting the precious ore. These
interesting specimens were presented by Mr.
H. Sewell for a future Public Museum.
	ANOTHER INSTANCE of the evils of throwing
stones occured lately. Mr. D. Grenig's little
daughter, while playing in the garden, was
struck on the forehead with a stone thrown by
a boy about fourteen years old. The wound was
a severe one. Parents should warn their chil-
dren against such a dangerous practice and use
their influence to put a stop to it. 
	"SHOULD THIS meet the eye of Sarah Cox,
(Cose?) of Ogden City, please send proper ad-
dress to your sister Ellen. My letters all come
back, without reaching you, from Ogden Post
Office, and Utah, with the word "unclaimed"
writtend on them."—Ellen Stockholm, Michel-
bury Common, Monmouth, England.
	Aug. 11th, 1874.
	WE REFER to the unavoidable delay in mail-
ing our last issue to say that it was no fault of
the Business Manager, who was absent in the
country for a few days hoping to realize a nec-
essary improvement in her health, and had left
the business in competent hands but sickness
and other unforseen difficulties prevented,
much to our regret, the paper being sent in 
time.
	WE LEARN from San Bernardino papers that
Mrs. Elizabeth Hunt, mother of Col. J. A.
Kelting, died there, Aug. 8th, in her eighty-
ninth year. She is described as being a kind
hearted woman of very retentive memory and
superior intellectual and physical powers. In
the war of 1812 she took an active part, be-
ing the owner of several privateers; and at one
time went alone from Philadelphia, her native
place, to New York to see after her interests in
that business. In 1832-3 she twice visited the
unsettled Indian Territory; subsequently she
came to Utah and in 1863 moved to San Ber-
nardino, which she made her home.
	THE FOLLOWING returns of the election show
the choice of the people: For Delegate to Con-
gress; Geo. Q. Cannon received 23,299 votes; R.
N. Baskin 4,523; Scattering 19. Giving Mr.
Cannon a majority of 18,776. The "People's
Ticket," also carried the election of local offi-
cers, excepting in Tooele county, which we
understand is to be contested.


WE WERE much pleased with the follow-
ing passages in a letter to a former number
of the "New North West," and republish
them, hoping they may tend to dispel the
unjust and too prevalent idea that boys
must have a superior education even if
their sister's schooling be limited to obtain
it. "I know a mother who was left a widow
with four children, three girls and a boy.
The girls were limited in education in order
to give the boy the advantages he needed.


The mother said that education was not
necessary for women, for they would marry
and then never have time to make use of
it. The boy has always acted generously
by his sisters. He says their education was
limited on his account and now he must do
all he can for them. I speak of this young
man because he has proved faithful to his
trust when so many others have failed.
Many a young man will look down upon his
sisters, because he knows more than they,
when his superior knowledge has been pur-
chased at the expense of their own educa-
tional necessities."


ADDRESS.
READ AT THE FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING
	OF THE PAYSON RELIEF SOCIETY.

	This is an occasion calculated to awaken
many reflections in the minds of rational, 
intelligent beings. We have the past to re-
view, the future to contemplate but not in the
uncertain light that the world contemplates
the future. We, as children of the light,
have an assurance that the world has not;
an assurance that man cannot give nor take
away; then what manner of persons ought
we to be? Should we not seek to excel in
good examples all people upon the face of
the earth? knowing, as we do that the
time of God's judgments is nigh at hand
and nothing but strict obedience to every
word of God will avail us to turn away
His fierce indignation; for He will not
be mocked, neither can He look upon sin
with the least degree of allowance; and al-
so has He not called us from among all na-
tions and plead with us continually, from
the begining, to lay aside all our old leaven,
even the ways of the world and the fash-
ions of Babylon and become one in all things
according to the pattern given to the an-
cient saints? which Gospel has been revealed
in these last days and taught continually.
It is destined to stand, to revolutionize the
earth and bring in the reign of righteous-
ness and peace; to bring man back into the
presence of his Creater and continue his
eternal round of glory, honor, power, do-
minion and eternal increase. What intel-
ligent mind can contemplate these things
and not be filled with unspeakable joy? or
who can shrink from any duty, or cross or
sacrifice, if it can be called a sacrifice? for
are we not perishable and even the earth,
and the elements are to be dissolved and
pass away. But, behold! in obedience there
is safety, even when the heavens and the
earth shall have passed away, and, there-
fore let us be wise in the day of our proba-
tion and lay aside every weight and every
sin; even our unbelief which doth so easily
beset us, for the Prophet Joseph said that
unbelief was, of all others, the most easy
besetting sin and would lead to all other 
sins. Oh! then let, us be wise and lay aside 
every vain desire cultivate the spirit of
oneness and love, an unselfish love like that 
our Savior manifested, even that self-deni-
al which enabled him to overcome all the
powers of darkness and become sanctified
and glorified in a fulness of his Father's
presence. He has promised that they who
believe, nothing doubting, the things that
he did shall they do also. Now do we be-
lieve on Him? if so, let us arise and let our
light shine by strict obedience to every
word that shall proceed from His servants
and no power will be able to prevail against
his chosen people.


WHEN is a horse not worth a shilling?
When he is worthless.					

INTEREST-ING man—A bank clerk.


FLORAL HINTS.

		ST. GEORGE, Aug. 15th, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	For the florist this is the saddest time of
the year, the great heat is so exhausting to
the plants that special care is necessary.
Flowers should be moderately watered and
the ground stirred often, at least every day
or two. Long stems should be tied securely
to sticks. and all, old, dry, dead, or decay-
ing plants removed ftom the garden and the
room given to other plants. As fast as Ro-
ses and Dahlias get out of bloom cut away
the seed buds, and other flowers will be
more perfect, larger and more plenty. Keep
Geraniums in an atmosphere cool and moist,
partly shaded from the sun. Plant seeds
now for winter blooming in partly shaded
situations. If not already done, take up
bulbs of Tulips, Crocus, Hyacinths, and all
like flowering plants, dry them in the
shade and plant them out again in October.
Save ripe seeds of such flowers as you de-
sire to propagate and put them in paper
bags, plainly marking each one. Put down lay-
ers of Verbenas and such other plants as you 
wish to pot for winter use. Cut away the
old stems of China Pinks if you wish to see
them finely in bloom again. Gather all the
various seeds you want for fancy frame
work, as they ripen. 		FLORA.


﻿WAITING UNTIL THE LAST MOMENT.

	The habit of putting off and deferring
until the last moment things which must
be ready at a certain time causes much
poor and mediocre work, many unfinished
jobs, broken promises, and is in fact one of
the means by which the world is kept in
confusion.  
	The workman or woman in any depart-
ment of labor, who is always prompt and
punctual in having work ready when
promised, stands the best kind of a chance
to make money and friends.
	When a customer has to work a day or
two on a dress atter it is sent home from
the dress-maker, she is not apt to be pleased
with the job, or to call again, or recommend
her friends to do so.
	Good dress-makers are called bad ones by
puttingoff work, until haste makes a botch
of a garment.
	Nothing so builds up a reputation and
brings friends and patronage to any busi-
ness as beginning in time to have work
ready when promised, and to have it done
well. Housekeepers who act upon the
same principle have contented families, or-
derly and pleasant homes, when deferring
to the last minute would keep things in a
jumble of hot dinners, scorched meats, hot
pastry and cross husbands.


A HOUSEHOLD ORNAMENT.—"A small
wire basket lined with various colored tis-
sue paper, nicely fringed hands in one cor-
ner of the room; a bunch of gay Southern
moss hangs in wavy flakes around the bas- 
ket. In the basket sets a two pound oyster 
can, filled with water and a sweet potato.
It has sent out a vine several feet in length,
guided by strings over the clock, around
picture frames, and twining through man-
tle ornaments, adding beauty, and cheerful-
ness to the room. It may not be generally
known that with a vessel kept full of clear
water in a warm room a sweet potato vine
will grow all winter.  It is not necessary
that the sun shines upon it."


WOMEN'S EXPONENT.﻿


ADELAIDE PROCTOR.

I hold him great, who, for love's sake,
	Can give with generous, earnest will;
Yet he who takes for love's sweet sake
	I think I hold more generous still.

I bow before the noble mind
	That freely some great wrong forgives;
Yet nobler is the one forgiven,
	Who bears that burden well and lives.

It may be hard to gain, and still
	To keep a lowly, steadfast heart;
Yet he who loses has to fill
	A harder and a truer part.
Glorious it is to wear the crown
	Of a deserved and pure success;
He who knows how to fail has won
	A crown whose lustre is not less:

Great may he be who can command
	And rule with just and tender sway;
Yet is diviner wisdom taught
	Better by him who can obey.

Blessed are those who die for God,
	And earn the martyr's crown of light;
Yet he who lives for God may be
	A greater conquerer in his sight.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Apple Pudding without Pastry.—Pare and cut
up enough apples to weigh two pounds. Boil them
and rub through a colander. Add a large spoonful
of butter while they are hot and when cold add ½
pound of crushed white sugar, 6 well beaten eggs, 
and the grated rind of a lemon. Pour the mixture 
into a deep dish, and bake for half an hour.

	Boiling Beef with Pork.—With a long, narrow,
sharp knife, make an incision in the beef length-
wise of the fiber; press into it closely a strip of 
fat pork, which should not be more than one inch
square. At intervals of an inch or two make
other incisions; fill with pork as before and boil as
usual. This beef is more palatable, particularly to
those persons who like a "streak of fat and a streak
of lean," and withal all is quite showy when cut
in slices to be eaten cold.

	To Preserve Grapes with Honey.—Take seven
pounds of good sound grapes on the stems, the
branches as perfect as possible, and pack them
snugly without breaking, in a stone jar. Make a 
syrup of four pounds of honey and one pint of good
vinegar, with cloves and cinnamon to suit (about 
three ounces each is our rule.) Boil them well to-
gether for twenty minutes, and skim well, then
turn boiling hot over the grapes, and seal imme-
diately. They will keep  years if you wish, and
are exceedingly nice. Apples, peaches, and plums
may be done  the same way.

	Cleansing Bottles.—The Manufacturer and 
Builder says:—Many persons clean bottles by put-
ting in some small shot and shaking them around.
Water dissolves lead to a certain extent, and a film
of this lead attaches itself to the sides of the bot-
tle so closely that the shaking or rinsing with water
does not detach it, and it remains to be dissolved 
by any liquid which has the least sourness in it, and
if drank, lead poison may be the result, sometimes
a shot becomes wedged in at the bottom of a bottle, 
to be dissolved by wine or cider. Therefore, it is 
better to wash every bottle, as soon as emptied,
with warm water and wood ashes, or saleratus, and
put the bottles away, mouth open and downward:
but be careful to wash again when used, as flies
and other insects frequently get into open bottles.

	Working too hard.—All over the land the cry is
from farmer's wives, "I'm so tired; my work is so
hard, I do not think farming pays, there is so much
hard labor connected with it." I wish I could say
to every one of them don't work all the time. Let 
something go undone if you cannot do it without
overtaxing your strength. Constant labor from
sunrise to sunset makes a joyless life. I remember
in my early married life, when my husband and I


first started on a new farm that I worked just as
hard as I could all the time for a week at a time.
I have washed and churned and baked (for a
small family to be sure), Mondays, besides doing
the inevitable work which comes every day in a
house. I look back now with regret on the waste
of strength I was guilty of by so doing. Big
day's works break down men and women both
prematurely. Have moral courage enough to be
called lazy rather than ruin your health by con-
tinuous hard labor. Do not consider the time
thrown away that you spend resting and reading.
Feed your mind as well as your body if you would
"live while you live."—A Farmer's Wife.


HYGENIC NOTES.

	TO PREVENT HYDROPHOBIA.—A high
medical authority on the subject, offers the
following simple rules, which, if observed
strictly, cannot fail to lessen the danger
from hydrophobia, if they do not prevent it
entirely:
	1. A dog that is sick from any cause
should be watched and treated carefully un-
til his recovery.
	2. A dog that is sick and restless is an
object of suspicion. This is the earliest pe-
culiar system of hydrophobia.
	3. A dog that is sick and restless and has
a depraved appetite, gnawing and swallow-
ing bits of cloth, wood, coal, brick, mortar,
&c., is a dangerous animal. He should be
at once chained up and kept in confine-
ment until his condition is clearly ascer-
tained.
	4. If, in addition to any or all of the fore-
going symptoms, the dog has delusion of
the senses, appearing to see or hear imagi-
nary sights or sounds, trying to pass through
a closed door, catching at flies in the air
when there are none, or searching for some-
thing which does not exist, there is great
probability that he is, or is becoming, hy-
drophobic. He should be secured and con-
fined without delay.
	5. In case any one is bitten by a dog
whose condition is suspicious, the most ef-
fective and beneficial mode of treatment is
to cauterize the wound at once with a stick
of silver nitrate, commonly called "lunar
caustic." The stick of caustic should be
sharpened to a pencil point, introduced quite
to the bottom of the wound, and held in
contact with every part of the wounded
surface until it is thoroughly cauterized and
insensible. This destroys the virus by
which the disease would be communicated.

	RESUSCITATION OF DROWNED PERSONS.—
The Massachusetts Humane society has is-
sued a card with these directions for restor-
ing persons apparently drowned:—Convey
the body to the nearest house, with head
raised. Strip and rub dry. Wrap in blan-
kets. Inflate the lungs by closing the nos-
tril with thumb and finger and blowing into
the mouth forcibly, and then pressing with
hand on the chest and so on for ten minutes,
or until he breathes. Keep the body warm,
extremities also. Continue rubbing—do
not give up so long as there is any chance
of success.

	REMEDY FOR LOOSENESS IN THE BOWELS
OR CHOLERA MORBUS.—Mix two tablespoon-
fuls of wheat flour with just water enough
to moisten the flour; drink it. If the first
dose does not check pain, or the purging,
repeat the dose in half an hour. Severe
cases sometimes require a third dose.

	CURE FOR CORNS AND BUNIONS.—Squeeze
out the juice of two good lemons; put it in
a bottle, add one dozen small pearl buttons—
old ones will do as well as new; shake the


bottle well a few times until the buttons are
all dissolved, when is is ready for use. Ap-
ply with the finger to the corn or bunion
twice a day until a cure is effected. I have
never known it to fail of accomplishing the
desired result. It is very penetrating.
Keep closely corked.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	PARIS, ONEIDA CO.,
		IDAHO TER. Aug. 17th, 1874.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having been requested to write yo[-]
occasionally I cheerfully comply, although
it does not fall within the line of my usual
occupation. For the last few years my call-
ing, apart from the cares of my family, has
been to attend to the sick, as we have no
real doctors in this valley. I feel thankful
that I have, through the blessings of the
Lord, been an instrument in His hands of
relieving the afflicted; and I would suggest
to my sisters, would it not be better for us
to inform ourselves more in regard to our
children and their diseases, than spending
so much of our time with fashions and dress.
For what mother is there, who, when she
sees her children writhing in the agonies of
death, would not give all she possesses if
she could but relieve it. As I visit among
the sick, I find a great lack of education
among the sisters in regard to the natural
laws of health.
	Although we are a little on the outside of
your Territory, we wish to be numbered
with you and considered a branch of the
olive tree; not a dead branch but a living
one, and willing to join you, heart and
hand in every good work. We have a fine
valley here and a beautiful lake, abounding
with fish of the finest quality. There are
twelve towns or settlements in the valley,
and a Relief Society is organized in each set-
tlement. I think the members of the Paris
Relief Society number about one hundred,
and to my certain knowledge they are a
great blessing to the poor, the sick, and the
needy; although we have but few in our
midst who are not able to help themselves.
Our grain crops look promising; we antici-
pate a good harvest if the frost keeps off a
little longer. Your paper is duly apprecia-
ted and hailed as a welcome messenger
among the saints. I remain, as ever, your
sister in the Gospel.			E. G. R.


ANECDOTE.—Clergyman in the olden
time took great liberties in giving whole-
some advice in their sermons to individual
members of the congregation. When Mrs.
Abigail Adams, wife of President John
Adams, was married, her father, Rev. Mr.
Smith, of Braintree, Massachusetss, who was
a person of great humor and originality,
preached a queer sermon. On the occasion
of the marriage of his first daughter, Mary,
to a Mr. Cranch, he preached a sermon from
the text, "And Mary hath chosen that good
part which shall not be taken away from
her." John Adams was of a family of no
special position, and was not thought quite
good enough for the parson's daughter.
Moreover, he was a lawyer, and the law was
regarded in Puritan New England as a de-
vious and not altogether respectable profes-
sion. But John was an honest, temperate
young man, and the parson approved Abi-
gail's choice. Accordingly, the Sunday af-
ter their marriage, he preached from the
text, "And now came John; neither eating
bread, nor drinking wine, and ye say, he
hath a devil."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.	
		MAKE THE BEST OF IT.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	A morning in June is not fresher and
sweeter with its perfume of flowers, breath
of roses, hum of bees and songs of birds,
than the presence of those who make the
best of everything. They fill the house with
sunshine and impart a soft and mellow ra-
diance to all around; out of the dry, color-
less, hard, forbidding, husks of life they
extract and hive sweet contentment, pure
satisfaction, and true happiness; culling
treasures on every hand.
	"A lucky temperament" you will say, yes,
temperament is much but so is training.
Do you suppose training counts for nothing?
Character is partially inherent but we are in
a great measure the arbiters of our own for-
tunes.
	Life, philosophers tell us, is but "little
better than a state of warfare;" then let us
call up all the forces of merit, strength of
mind and individuality to compete with it;
it is the little kindnesses, the little courte-
sies, the little charities that tell; they
smooth away the roughnesses of life and
render it more endurable. The truest cour-
tesy is impelled from a good heart. Smiles,
words of encouragement and praise are
needful for the soul's health; let no one de-
spise these small things nor believe them
beneath their notice and too trivial for their
attention. These are charities with which
money has no concern; opportunities for
doing good, which we all are in danger of
overlooking because they are common things
of every day occurrence and require so
small an effort. If we were careful to take
advantage of these little opportunities, the
day, that to another is insupportable would
be to us full of happiness.
	It makes, perhaps, but little difference to
mankind at large, whether we are happy or
unhappy but the greatest difference to our-
selves whether our  characters and faculties
are developed to the utmost or dwarfed and
stunted in their growth.
	You may, in fact, be very unhappily situa-
ted; your home disagreeable; your situation
deplorable; your surroundings discouraging;
your husband unsympathetic; you may have
poverty and sickness to contend with but if
you bravely meet your difficulties; if you
bring energy to bear in your endeavors to
overcome them; if out of your own sadness
you can learn to touch tenderly and soothe
the sadness of another; you will eventually
reap a fuller happiness than the first ephem-
eral enjoyments, you craved could possibly
have bestowed. One of the greatest bless-
sings given to us is, self-content, the feeling
that God's gifts have not been wasted in our
hands, the sense of an approving conscience;
and we cannot possess this (unless we are
inordinately vain conceited and self-glori-
fying) without having done our best; and
that development of character, must have
taken place in us whose influence is felt in
immense circles, ever widening like ripples
in the sea.
	Looking at it from this point of view, it
is easy to perceive that whatever exercises
to the farthest our better and stronger quali-
ties is really of the most permanent value
to us, and to the world.
	An untried disposition and temper is sim-
ply a negative virtue; but if, on the other
hand, our condition is not the best, if we are
frequently obliged to surrender our own
will, to repress our own wishes, be subject
to the annoyances of housekeeping to please
others, not ourselves, and not always be suc-
cessful at that; suffer the weakening of sick-
ness or pain, the loss of sleep through chil-
dren and other causes, have the parching, 
darning, and innumerable other little house-
hold duties to do, when other employments
would be so much more agreeable to our
natural tastes and inclinations, and have the
thousand vexations that accompany family-
life even under the most careful manage-
ment, where so many different natures
meet; if, out of this furnace we come "un-
singed by fire;" our patience refined, our
faith unimpaired, it is a positive and supe-
rior virtue.
	To live for others; to bless them; to sus-
tain them; to be an example of the perfec-
tion of womanhood, are possibilities which
ought to fertilize the most barren soul. God
has not given us faculties to lie dormant;
they wither and almost disappear if not
used, while the proper exercise of what is
best within us, develop strong characteris-
tics that not only have this effect and influ-
ence upon others about us but descend and
mold the generations to come.
	Let us then make the best of life and not
go about sorrowing and mourning, lament-
ing our cruel fate, our unhappy future; for,
when we deplore our own existence, we are
guilty of the sin of ingratitude, and injust-
tice to our Divine Creator, and are seeking
to thwart His purposes.
	Has a Being of infinite wisdom bestowed
upon mortals such lofty mental endowments,
such vast capacities to be trifled with or ig-
nored? assuredly not; our religion teaches
us to make the best of life; we are not left
to spell out our work by the light of nature
or to follow the dubious fancies and conjec-
tural uncertainties of philosophy in regard
to this; it has been revealed to us from heav-
en, and affirmed by Him whose word is
eternal truth, and He has given us the Com-
forter—if we will live for it—to help us
make the best of our lives here.
	Once more let me add: how fresh is the
picture of those who truly observe this
maxim! how reviving, invigorating and in-
spiring their presence! how heartily and
enthusiastically they are welcomed! This
positive influence is undoubtedly great, they
seem to create an atmosphere which is de-
lightful and exhilarating to breathe; and
we are all, being human, more or less sus-
ceptible to each others' influence.


THE LANGUAGE OF THE FUTURE.

	The distinguished Swiss savant, M. Al-
phonse de Candolle, in his recent "Histoire
des Sciences," has ventured some predictions
in regard to the English language, which
may interest our readers. A Swiss scholar
ought at least to be an impartial judge. M.
de Candolle believes that the English lan-
guage is to be the language of the future.
He grounds his expectations, first of all, on
the structure of the English tongue. "Its
forms," he says, "are adapted to modern
tendencies. If you have to hail a vessel,
cry stop to a train, demonstrate a machine,
make a physical experiment, speak in a few
words to people busy and practical," you
must use the English language.
	This is the tongue that we employ when
we are in a hurry, or when we wish to say
anything clearly and briefly. "In the con-
flict of two languages," he adds, "all things
being equal, it is the briefest and most sim-
ple which carries the day." He states that
he has repeatedly seen in Switzerland fami-
lies where the French and German were
equally understood, but that the French al-
ways drives out the German through its su-
perior flexibility and convenience. In like
manner, where English and French are em-
ployed in a Swiss family, and are equally
known, the English drives out the French.
It even passes from one generation to an-
other in a foreign country on account of its
superior practical convenience. In this way
he accounts for the fact that French and
German families in England or America so
quickly lose their native tongues, while En-
glish-speaking families in France or Germa-
ny transmit theirs from generation to gen-
eration. The English tongue, he says, dis-
penses with long phrases and many words;
it uses readily foreign words, but shortens
them; it has  no arbitrary distinction of
genders; the main idea is so much the ob-
ject of each sentence that in conversation
one is not obliged to finish the phrase. He
admits its capital defect, "an orthography
so irregular, that it needs a year for most
children to learn to read." Its pronuncia-
tion, too, he considers wanting in distinct-
ness. Besides its structure, M. de Candolle
holds that its great advantage in the future
is the adaptation of its literature  which
above all suits  women. They find in it
a vast number of works written with perfect
purity and propriety, upon subjects which
most interest the female sex; such as reli-
gion, poetry, education, and the like.
	The future victory, however, of the En-
glish language the Swiss savant rests on
more scientific grounds. At the present
moment the English is spoken, he estimates
by seventy-seven millions of people in Eng-
land, Australia, and America. The German
includes sixty-two millions; the French, in
France, Belgium, and the colonies, forty
and one half millions. In England the
population doubles once in fifty years, so
that in a century, or 1970, it will reach the
sum of one hundred and twenty-four mil-
lions. In the United States, Canada, and
Australia, population doubles once in twen-
ty-five years, so that their numbers in 1970
will be seven hundred and thirty-six mil-
lions. The total number, then, of the Eng-
lish speaking people in 1970 will be eight
hundred and sixty millions. In Germany
on the other hand, the population in the
north doubles in from fifty-six to sixty years;
that of the south in one hundred and sixty-
seven years. Taking one hundred years as
the average, the number of the German
speaking people in 1970 will be one hundred
and twenty-four millions.
	In France the population doubles in about
140 years, so that in a century the French-
speaking people would amount to 69 1/2 mil-
lions. According to this estimate, the Ger-
man-speaking individuals would only form
the seventh part, and the French-speaking
only the twelfth or thirteenth part, of those
speaking English in 1970, and both together
would only amount to a quarter of the Eng-
lish-speaking races.
	The future victory of the English lan-
guage seems to this Swiss scholar assured.
His wise conclusion from this prediction is
that a heavy responsibility rests on the Eng-
lish-speaking races to preserve the purity
and unity of their tongue. The danger
which he fears is that English may break
into three languages related to one another,
like Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese. It
should be our noble ambition to preserve
one great and pure tongue—the tongue of
Milton and Shakespere—as the future uni-
versal language for the thought and busi-
ness of the world. Americans, he thinks,
will have the most influence in this work,
for their country will lead those of the Eng-
lish-speaking races. Thus far, we believe,
the language has suffered no perceptible
strain or corruption upon this continent.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	DECLINE of the bar—Closing of saloons.
	AN unpleasant sort of arithmetic—Divis-
ion among families.
	"THE cause of woman's suffrage."—Scar-
city of husbands. 
	WHEN are two kings like three miles?
When they make a league. 
	WHY is a ship always designated as "she"?
Because she always keeps a man on the
look-out.
	"Mynheer, do you know for what we call
our boy Hans?" "Do not really." "Well,
I tell you.  Der reason why we call our boy
Hans, dat ish his name."
	"CAST Iron Sinks" is written upon the
sign of a Hartford plumber. "Well, who in
the (hic) said it didn't?" chuckled an inebri-
ate man, after reading it over three times.
	A LADY under great affliction, which she
did not bear in a very angelic way, once
said to her friend "Oh dear, what should I
have done in all this without religion?"	"I am sure I cannot tell," was the answer;
"but you could not have done much worse
than you have with religion." 
	IT is said that one of the editors of the 
New Orleans paper, soon after learning the
printing business, went to see a preacher's
daughter. The next time he attended
meeting, he was astonished at hearing the
minister announce as his text. "My daugh-
ter is grievously tormented with a devil." 
	THE late Father O'Leary, who was well
known as a wit, had once a polemical con-
test with the protestant Bishop of Cloyne.
The prelate in  a pamphlet, inveighed with
great acrimony against the superstitions of
Popery, and particularly against the doc-
trine of purgatory. Father O'Leary, in his
reply, slyly observed, "that much as the 
Bishop disliked purgatory, he might possi-
bly go farther and fare worse." 
	THE customers of a cooper in the High-
lands caused him a great deal of vexation
by their saving habits and persistence in
getting their tubs and casks repaired, buy-
ing very little new work. "I stood it long
enough, however," said he, "until one day
old M'Cawbrie brought in an old bung hole,
to which he said he wanted a new barrel
made. Then I quitted the North in dis-
gust.
	AN Irishman was seen coming down
Montague Street, Brooklyn, on his way to
the Wall Street Ferry. Over his port shoul-
der hung a bag containing about a bushel of
potatoes, and in his starboard hand he car-
ried a stout stick. Being under full sail, the
momentum acquired in coming down the
steep grade carried him nearly through the
gateway, when, seeing a boat about ten feet
from the dock, he shook out another reef,
made an astonishing burst of speed, and
jumped. Just as he reached the dock the
potato bag shifted heavily to port and laid
out a Broad Street clerk who was smoking a
Henry Clay through a meerschaum holder,
while the stick hit a rotund South Street
merchant in the waistband, shutting him
up like a jackknife, and Pat himself as-
sumed an involuntary devotional attitude.
He was the first to recover his perpendicu-
larity, and as he replaced the bag in its nor-
mal position, he complacently remarked,
"By me sowl, but I got the boat anyway!"
"Got the boat!" screamed he of Broad
Street spitting the pieces of amber out of his
mouth, "why, you confounded idiot, this
boat is coming in!" And so she was.


HELP-MEETS.

	The ideas of most young girls concern-
ing married life, are generally so vague and
visionary that it is no wonder they are apt
to be disappointed when the sober reality of
care and responsibility settles down upon 
them. They are to be pitied rather than
blamed, since they have been either illy
taught, or not taught at all, the correct posi-
tion they must assume the day they don the
title of wife. It is not uncommon for young
girls to plunge direct from school into the
sea of matrimony, unsupported by a single
sensible notion of the life upon which they
enter, and what can be expected to follow
but failure and discontent? Marriage to
them is a sort of materialized Heaven; it is
so sweet to love and be loved; orange flow-
ers, bridal presents, and a fine looking hus-
band are so prominent in their day-dreams,
as to exclude homelier, but full as impor-
tant, accessories from their fanciful vision.
	After the days of the honeymoon pass,
the veil gradually uplifts, and they find
themselves forced to the performance of
duties disagreeable, and oftentimes uncon-
genial. It is different from what they ex-
pected, and, naturally enough, they feel that
they have not received the equivalent due
them. It is not the fault of the young
wife, but owing, in most cases, to lack of
sense displayed by those whom experience
should teach better. Had these girls been
instructed that marriage is a vineyard, in
which, properly, both parties should labor,
that the woman must do her part as well as
the man, that to promote happiness, comfort,
and prosperity, she must be emphatically a
help-meet, and not a help-eat, why then 
they might have taken their choice and
have no one to blame but themselves. Left
to herself, how does a girl of seventeen un-
derstand these matters?
	It was originally intended that the wife
should be a help-meet to the husband, not
an idle, listless woman, fritting away her
moments in useless employments that inter-
fere with the proper and conscientious per-
formance of her duties. When a man mar-
ries, his whole future often depends on the
sort of woman he marries, especially if he
is poor, and has his own fortune to carve.
If the wife is not prudent, wise, and ener-
getic, he will remain forever a mere power-
less machine dragged down by a dead
weight. It is the men whose wives have
proved themselves help-meets, truly, that
are the rich men of to-day; they may at-
tribute their wealth to speculation, keen
business talent, or anything their pride my
suggest, but examine closely the machinery
that backs them, and you will find it well-
greased with the oil of feminine craft. Men
are inclined to be extravagant, and, if helped
on and encouraged by spendthrift wives,
will lay up no pennies for the "rainy" days
of life.
	A woman should be proud to be a help-
meet to her husband. These poetical fan-
cies concerning the ivy and the oak are very
pretty, and, to a certain extent, appropriate,
but, as an American writer finely expresses
it, "the ivy should always be ready to stand
alone, if the oak shows signs of weariness."
Some women seem to have no self-depen-
dence; they throw all the burdens of life
on to their husbands' shoulders, and cannot
act for themselves in the smallest matters.
	It is certainly not a woman's place to
earn daily bread for a strong, able-bodied
man to eat, but we have noble instances on
record, where, in case of failing health or
accident, the wife has stood up equal to the
emergency, and exhibited her capacities
most thoroughly in this respect. The in-
creasing advantages daily accruing to Ameri-
can women for educating and fitting them-
selves for the pursuit, even, of masculine
occupations, render them able on necessity
to make themselves help-meets and bless-
ings to their husbands and families. May
such be the choice of all.—Lady's Journal.


MRS. WILKINSON

	  Is now constantly receiving her Fall Stock of

				MILLINERY,

   Consisting of all the New Styles of Ladies' Hats and
	Bonnets, Velvets, Flowers, Feathers, Ribbons,
	    Silks, Laces, etc., together with a fine as-
		   sortment of Ladies' White Wear,
Underwear, Children's Caps, Cloaks, Hand-made Woolen
				    Goods, etc.

			     H. DINWOODEY

WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.

			   Largest Assortment in Utah.

He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
				storey Brick Store.

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP CORNER.


H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			DOCTOR CROCKWELL

	Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyous ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.	
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

				CLUB RATES. 

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by 
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.			-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,			-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16 
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling 
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	 	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 	 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 3.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1874.					No. 8.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"DEMON WORSHIP," is what a prominent
New York paper calls Spiritualism, which
it says is making giant strides and is rap-
idly becoming the national religion(?) of the
United States. This is certainly, not very 
flattering to a great nation which prides
herself on her christianity and civilization; 
sends missionaries abroad to convert the
heathen; and frowns upon the Latter day
Saints because they do not appear without
spot or blemish in the sight of her pure
eyes. 
	THE PRINCIPAL officers of the California
Woman Suffrage Society are: Mrs. Sarah
Wallis, President; Mrs. Laura DeForce
Gorden, (Editor, Stockton Leader,) Vice
President; Mrs. Mathews, Recording Sec-
retary; Mrs. Watson, Corresponding Secre-
tary, besides one Vice President for about
half the counties in the State and a Board
of Directors.


THE SEX.
	MADAME Anna Bishops is singing in Ore-
gon.
	MINNIE Hauck, the American prima
donna in Vienna, is a New Orleans girl.
	MRS. George Lewis, Rockway, N. Y.,
rowed out in a boat in the breakers on
Thursday last, and rescued a boy from
drowning whose boat had capsized.
	THE ladies of Portage Grange, at School-
craft Mich., have instituted a Dress Reform
and hereafter will not follow Dame Fashion,
but have a fashion each of her own—one
that will be more consistent with their
purse and couducive of better health.
	THE Bedford (Pa,) Gazette says that
"there are in Pennsylvania 150 Post-mis-
tresses. It has been common for many years
to appoint women to that position, and they
are always efficient officers. We believe not
one has ever proved a defaulter to the gov-
ernment."
	THE Princess Margaretta is greatly be-
loved in Rome for her many and tender
charities. She is very beautiful, and it is
said that her presence has an influence on
the populace possessed by no one else. When
any disturbance threatens they send for her.
Her age is twenty-four.
	OF Mrs. M'Mahon, wife of the President
of France, Lucy Hooper gives the following
description: "She is short, stout, and un-
stylish-looking and in her dress of dark
blue silk, with tunic and sleeveless corsage
of open worked black silk, a hat wreathed
with pale pink roses, and a bouquet of pink
roses in her hand, looked like the house-
keeper of some aristocratic family abroad in
her best clothes.
	MISS Josie Burnett and Miss Mabel
Weiss, two Boston girls, rowed a very in-
teresting match against time at the Isle of
Shoals. The course was from Star Island to
Appledore, distance over mile, to be done
within fifteen minutes. They accomplished
the feat in eleven minutes, and won the
wager. The bet was with a gentleman, for
two gentlemen's drab soft hats, against one
chip-straw lady's hat trimmed with flowers.
	THE Philadelphia ladies claim the honor
of opening the first sea-side resort for poor
women that has been established. It is sit-
uated at Asbury Park, about six miles from
Long Branch, N. J. The dwelling stands
in a fine grove. Board for the season is
fixed at $3 per week. The institution is an
aid, instituted for the assistance of deserv-
ing women. A prominent citizen of Phila-
delphia gave the ladies a check for $5000,
and the home is entirely paid for.
	MISS Alexandrine D'Egroff of Wizentry,
Novogorod, (a province of Russia), has tak-
en up her temporary residence in Ann Arbor,
Mich., with a view to graduation in the
Medical Department of the University.
She has already attended lectures in St.
Petersburg and Paris, but being a woman,
could not get a diploma by completing her
medical education in either city. She speaks
French fluently—the language with which
she holds intercourse with the "Western
barbarians," and is fast acquiring English
under the instructions of Miss Sarah D.
Hamlin, a recent University graduate.
	WE are exceedingly grieved to learn by
the newspapers that Mrs. Celia Burleigh,
widely known as a speaker, and writer in
the WOMAN'S JOURNAL, and widow of the
late William H. Burleigh, the Connecticut
poet, has recently gone to the City Hospi-
tal in Rochester, N. Y., probably to spend
her last weeks, she being far advanced in
consumption. She has, it is stated, neither
a home nor near relatives. Her last touch-
ing article, entitled "Life on a Stretcher,"
will be remembered by our readers.—Wo-
man's Journal.


FLORAL HINTS.

     WALKS, TALKS AND HINTS.

			ST. GEORGE, Sept. 2nd, 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I shall be pardoned for lack of greater
promptness, when I tell you how very busy
I have been for the last month, more among
the fruit than the lovely flowers, drying,
canning, preserving and pickling. First
peaches, then apples, pears, plums, necta-
rines and grapes; each in their turn I have
had to manipulate, preparing not only a
supply for future family use but some to
spare, for sale. You must also know I am
quite a Bee-Keeper and have an apiary I
am not ashamed of, which I take much plea-
sure in caring for. This not only gives me
more care and labor, but all the honey our
little family needs. And how easy it is
paid for; just think, a swarm of bees to start
with, a few hives, a bee journal or two, an
interesting study, a few hours every week,
—result, all the delicious honey we desire,
some to spare and a hundred per cent. in-
crease every year. I wonder a hundred
times a month, why every sensible sister or
housekeeper don't have bees and thus have
a plenty of clear delicious honey, amuse-
ment for spare hours and a hundred per
cent. profit. In fact, from my own experi-
ence, I see no reason why female labor and
skill may not be just as successful in Bee-
keeping, as that of the sterner sex; for it is
light, interesting, clean, sweet and  profita-
ble. Now are not these advantages enough?
But I have strayed from my subject, of put-
ting in a good, strong excuse. Well be-
sides all I have named; Willie, the darling!
has been sick—poor little fellow, cutting a
whole mouthful of teeth and O! the trouble
of the mother—day and night—any min-
ute—any hour—well "you know how it is
yourself" or will, perhaps, so I refrain; and
suggest to those who have never tried it, to
select good white-fleshed, sweet apples,
peal, quarter and core; now take two lbs. of
white sugar to three of apples thus prepared
and make, in the usual way, into a most
beautiful preserve, seasoning with any spice
desired. To make a delicious drink boil
your cider in a clean, bright brass or copper,
four gallons to one, and put it away in a
cellar, in bottles, jug or keg; and when used
put a spoonful or two in a glass of water.
It makes a cheap, nice and wholesome bev-
erage.
	Yesterday a sister called and on seeing
my Geraniums, healthy and in blossom,
complained of hers as sickly and without
bloom. I asked her, "Have you watered
them regularly?" "O yes," she said, "twice
a day." "And have you not given them
too much?" I said. "No," she replied, "I
have been very careful." "Well," said I,
'isn't the pot too small for the plant, or
dosn't it want new fresh earth, or fertiliz-
ing?" "Well," she said, "there may be
something in that, for they have been a
year in the same pot and nothing but water
given them." "Well," said I, "no wonder
your plants are yellow and sickly; how
would you like to be crammed into a small
room for a whole year without ventilation?
You must turn the plants out, give them
larger pots, good rich soil and in hot
weather keep them in some shade, like an
arbor, where they can get plenty of light
and air and but little sunshine, and then,
once a month feed them liquid manure,
thus: take an old pan or bucket, fill with
well rotted, fine, old manure from the sheep
fold, cow shed or hen coop; pour on plenty
of water and, after soaking a day, water
your plants with it a few times. Many a
plant gets poor and sickly for want of this
treatment—There, Willie calls!
							FLORA.


IT is not well for us to cherish the habit
of dwelling much on the faults and short-
comings of those with whom we live. It
makes us more critical than generous. It
effects the cordiality of our manner toward
them. It insensibly lessens our confidence.
It interferes with the delicious ease and free-
dom of our intercourse with them. It col-
ors the remarks that we make about them.
It is said of the virtuous woman, whose
price is above rubies, that the law of kind-
ness is in her tongue. But in order to be in
the tongue it must first be in the heart, and
the habit of dwelling much on the imper-
fections of our friends and associates will
soon drive it from us.


TOMATOES were first used in this country,
as an edible, in the year 1819.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			OUR MOUNTAIN HOME.

A home was ours when Nature wore for all a smiling face:
Where we with feeble virtue strove to serve the God of
	grace; 
But enemies of truth arose, and burned our peaceful
	homes,
And drove us to the wilderness, alone and lost to roam.
Forlorn, fatigued, and sore distressed, and pinched with
	want and cold;
With foes rejoicing in our woes, God did our grief behold,
And over deserts, hills and plains, He led our trusting
	feet
To Deseret, dear Deseret, a sweet, secure retreat.

		CHORUS.

Then cheer again for Utah! the land we love so well:
Thanksgiving for our Mountain Home in truthful num-
	bers swell;
It is the home our God has given where we in peace
	may dwell.

We came into this mountain land all travel-stained and
	worn
But thankful to our fathers' God who gave us thus a home;
And here we dwelt, contented well, from all the world
	apart,
In a land once thought a barren wild, completely deso-
	late.
But Labor has a potent charm to make the desert smile,
Change desolation into bloom and barreness beguile.
Neat little villages spring up beneath its magic sway,
Contentment and prosperity attend its happy way.

		Then cheer again, &c.

We gladly till the willing soil and raise the golden grain,
With orchards fair and gardens gay we clothe the smil-
	ing plain:
We build our homes and make them fair, we drive the
	saw and plane,
The vise and anvil never rust, we make them ring again;
Millstones revolve, and spinning mules and busy shuttles
	fly. 
While sewing machines and fingers too the glittering
	needles ply.
"HOME MANUFACTURE!" is our cry, "Let's independent be
"Of those who drove us years ago and laughed our woes
	to see!"

		Then cheer again, &c.

We thank our God who brought us here for every bless-
	ing given—
First for this rugged mountain home, a refuge and a
	haven;
We thank him for the sunshine bright and for the win-
	ter's snow,
And the Mountain barrier He has set 'tween us and many
	a foe:
For life and health, for kindred ties, for raiment, food
	and fire,
And myriad, precious, unnamed gifts which thankful
	hearts inspire. 
He is our help in every need, our Father, Guide and
	Friend;
Oh! let us worthy children prove and serve Him to the
	end.

		Then cheer again. &c. 
								LU. DALTON.
Beaver, Beaver Co., U. T., July 24th, 18—.


OUR FASHIONABLE YOUNG LADIES.

	 BY BLANCH BEECHWOOD.

	One would think that with all the advan-
tages for improvement which are so univer-
sally afforded in our day, we ought to pro-
duce a superior class of young ladies. And
yet it is impossible to avoid noticing that
intellectuality and originality are rare; that
a certain style of imitation, (always of course,
the latest and most thoroughly fashionable
style) is adopted by the whole set. Man-
ners, conversation and appearance, all savor
of idleness and vapid frivolity.
	There is a new invasion over-runing the
world, selfish, slangy, loud and boisterous;
what would our prim, staid, quiet and un-
obtrusive, puritan grandmothers have
thought of them? all these accomplish-
ments are superficial and not for use but for
show. They stretch themselves far beyond
their limits; and laugh a great deal at old-
fashioned notions and ways, term them out
of date, out of style, and not adapted to the
age etc. but have they any new ideas of
their own to replace them or suggestions to
offer, except perhaps, a few quotations from
some modern fashionable writer of light
literature or the opinions of some presiding
genius of "polite society." They sneer a
little about religion and ridicule those who 
are really earnest and sincere or seeking
true methods of improvement; in fact they
like to be thought a little wicked, and no
doubt they are so, for:
		"Satan finds some mischief still
		For idle hands to do,"
even in this advanced age.
	They feel disgusted with their home and
its surroundings, and have an utter con-
tempt for real life and everything domestic;
they "are dying to go to San Francisco, or
New York," or some place more stylish and
more expensive; they wonder papa ever re-
fuses them money; and simply because they
are not forced to earn their bread, they seem
to feel there is no particular reason why they
should do anything. A little tatting to
show off their white, delicate hands elabor-
ately ornamented with rings or some highly 
sensational novel, serves their purpose for
employment; the only enthusiasm they ever
manifest is for parties or amusements of
that nature; they patronize the theatre, not
for what they can learn there of  lessons
of life but because it is fashionable; they
coquette and flirt with the beaux of their
"set," see and are seen, and the only thing 
they remember distinctly is the description
of the star actress' wardrobe. Their minds
become dissipated and are not capable of
concentration, there is no depth to them,
no substance which is really solid. They
experience a sort of mortification, if com-
pelled to walk a block with a relative or
friend under-dressed, dowdyish or country-
fied (as they term it) and feel as if an apol-
ogy were necessary, should they chance,
meantime, to meet one of their fashionable
acquaintances; with them style is upper-
most, and money, the one thing needful to
maintain it. Their fathers may grow gray,
fail in health, droop in spirits, under the bur-
den of their idleness and extravagance;
they see it not nor will they attribute it
to themselves, yet are they wholly guilt-
less? They are persistently blind to every-
thing save their own wants, and sacrifice
every true feeling of womanhood to this
idolatry of style. They are themselves
slaves and aim to draw the chains of bon-
dage so tightly around father and mother,
as to warp and distort all their purposes and
efforts for emancipation. The ambition of
their life is to pass "muster in society" and 
secure a rich husband; and to accomplish
this, all around them must succomb. Theirs
is the rule, they assume undue airs, they
award no courtesy, are even impertinent
and insolent to those older than themselves;
inexperience and ignorance bear the sway.
And after their bloom and youth has passed,
what resource have they to draw upon, in 
the dusty chambers of their brains?
	I do not think that this is in any measure
overstated, but there are some noble excep-
tions to this general and absolute influence;
and where there is an unconstrained, natu-
ral young lady, whose whole soul is not
wrapt up in fashion, dress and style; who
has independence of character enough to
think for herself; who is not feverishly impa-
tient with a desire to know who her future
husband will be and whether his wealth will
be immence; who is contented with her
lot and cheerful, joyous and happy in the
home provided for her by tender and loving
parents; people wonder why she is not like
the rest. She is sought after and studied,
and those who love truth, reality and mod-
esty fly to her as a rescue from the artificial,
stereotyped young ladies of their acquain-
tance.
	Is grace, kindness, self-forgetfulness and
true delicacy of behavior to vanish before
the caprices, vageries, frivolities and noth-
ingness of fashionable society, if these
things are its essence? Can we only regret
this state of things, and look with fear and
dismay upon such girls as the mothers of
the future race of men? for wherever woman
falls short of perfection, man is, in conse-
quence, similarly affected. Is not this some-
thing beneath the standard of excellence in
womanhood, and as mothers shall we yield
to this prevailing influence, or shall we
turn to our covenants and to our mission
upon the earth, rescue ourselves from the
dull lethargy into which we have fallen and
set to work vigorously, with solidity of
character, firmness of mind, and all con-
scious womanly dignity counteract this per-
nicious influence and crush the continued
strokes of this unreflecting and absolute
power?
	S. L. City, Sept. 9th, 1874.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	In trying to speak through your columns,
I realize my weakness and how dependent
I am upon my heavenly Father for His Holy
Spirit to assist me. It is my first attempt,
but still the precious maxim encourages me,
“Never say can’t, but try.”
	My whole heart is in this kingdom, and I
have a desire to do all the good in my power
to promote its interest. I often reflect,
what a blessed people we are, gathered up
here in these valleys, where we can listen
to the word of the Lord through His Ser-
vants and receive holy ordinances and
blessings which the world know not of.
How thankful we ought to feel! Still, I no-
tice that there is a careless, indifferent spirit
making itself manifest in our midst. What
is the cause of this? Is it because our wor-
thy President tells us that the time has
come for the “United Order” to be estab-
lished among this people? I think that
those who are living their religion and at-
tending to their prayers and privileges, will
bow down to the Lord with thanksgiving
and praise that they are, through the provi-
dences of His Almighty care, permitted to
see this day. Still the Scriptures tell us
that there is to be a great falling away, and
that a dividing line shall be drawn. The
time has come when we must either serve
God or Mammon. When we should exam-
ine ourselves, pray earnestly to our Father
in Heaven for His Holy Spirit to be with us
that we may learn our true position what
we have been placed here for and what is
required at our hands. I can bear testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, and I know that
the “United Order” is from God, and unless
we obey the same we shall never be permit-
ted to return to the celestial presence of
our Father in Heaven. For we know that
order is one of Heaven’s first laws, and that
God is a God of order, and where confusion
reigns, His Holy Spirit will not dwell. I
will say to those who do not understand it,
do not say a word against it, neither against
Plural Marriage, for they are Heaven’s di-
vine laws and must not be trifled with nor
lightly spoken of. We may ask ourselves
the questions, Are we wise or are we fool-


ish? Have we got oil in our lamps or are
they gone out? And then strive to sustain
the servants of the Lord by our faith and
prayers, and give heed unto their counsel,
bringing our minds and wills into subjection
to the priesthood and be ready to be led and
dictated by the same, that we may receive
the welcome words, well done, good and
faithful servants, enter into the joy of your
Lord.						J. R. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.

						For the EXPONENT.
	     MISSION OF SCIENCE.

	But a hundred years ago, light burst forth
upon the earth in relation to the elements
of which it is composed. From that time
it has engaged the attention of scientists to
verify or prove the truth of those principles
then brought to light, principles that have
changed the belief of men relating to the
entire material world. Since then there
have been less important discoveries made
which are the consequences of the preceed-
ing discoveries. Not fifty years ago, like
startling and momentous intelligence came
forth concerning elements that are also eter-
nal, respecting the great moral world in
which we live, move and have our being;
and, as a parallel to the movements in the
physical or natural world men are now veri-
fying the truth of these great principles
then brought to light.
	There is spiritual as well as physical
science, the mission of each is to enable
men to know correctly; to know by research
conducted understandingly and systemat-
ically. In different departments of truth
the modes of investigation may differ be-
cause the conditions may not be alike. To
apply rules correctly is of the utmost im-
portance; natural things are estimated by
natural laws. By not attending to these
conditions the great tendency of natural
science in our day has been to produce
doubt and unbelief in relation to things
spiritual. Men cannot believe there are
methods by which to ascertain and be satis-
fied, say, for instance concerning the exist-
ence of a God, which is a very common
thing for men to doubt. But they do not
want to believe. Now this is not science;
science seeks for information because it
wants it and accepts it when found, even if
not what was expected.
	The truth is, intelligence comes to those
who seek it honestly and earnestly, both in
natural and spiritual things. With the ad-
vent of truth in our days, it has been made
known, among other things, "The time has
come that it shall be unto men, even accord-
ing to their faith." The spirit of that dec-
laration by the Prophet Joseph is that those
who want to believe there are no other than
the natural forces to account for these crea-
tions can do so; while those who seek for
information by the proper methods can
know concerning Him, who "made heaven,
and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of
waters." And it will be known thoroughly,
surely; it will be seen, too, that the same
harmony that exists in the natural sciences,
exist in the spiritual; and to prove that har-
mony between both is the true Mission of
Science.
				
					[For the EXPONENT.
	THE TELEPHONE.—An instrument of this
name, was invented by Reis as early as 1861;
in a late paper, a new instrument for the
transmission of sounds is noticed as the in-
vention of Mr. Elisha Gray, of Chicago.
Wonderful things are told about it but themode of transmission of sound is not ex-
plained. It appears that a violin may be
played on the "receiving wire" of the in-
strument and operations at the distance of
two thousand, four hundred miles produce
sounds on the violin; and tunes—"Hail!
Columbia" and others—were performed on
the instrument by Mr. Gray. "Knowledge
shall be increased," this is the destiny of the
age we live in. If only half of what has been
stated, be true who knows but that at our
next Grand Jubilee in our Tabernacle Mr. 
Gray may perform on it while quietly seat-
ed in Chicago.


FLOWERS.

	HOW many troubles might mankind be
spared if they would only wait to hear each
other's explanations!
	SOME persons are above our anger, and
some below it. To contend with our superiors
is indiscreti on and with our inferiors is in-
dignity.
	EVERY person has two educations—one
which he receives from others, and one,
more important, which he gives himself.—
Gibbon.
	Do not complain of life's trials. Through
these you may gain incomparably higher
good than through indulgence and ease.
	EVERY kind word and feeling, every good
deed and thought, every noble action and
impulse, is like the ark-sent dove, and re-
turns from the troubled waters of life bear-
ing a green olive-branch to the soul.
	CONVEY thy love to thy friend as an ar-
row to the mark, to stick there, not as a ball
against the wall, to rebound back to you.
That friendship will not continue to the end
that is begun for an end.—Enchiridion.
	THERE can be no friendship where there
is no freedom. Friendship loves a free air,
and will not be penned in straight and nar-
row inclosures. It will speak freely, and act
so too, and take no ill where no ill is meant;
nay, where it is, it will easily forgive, and
forget, too, on small acknowledgements.
	THE son of Emir had red hair, of which
he was ashamed, and wished to dye it.
But his father said, "Nay, my son, rather
behave in such a manner that all fathers
should wish their sons had red hair."
	GET close to your children—find out what
they are thinking—their aims and purposes,
what traits of character they admire, and
which they are most disposed to imitate.
Be kind, genial and sympathizing. Make
goodness attractive to them, Don’t be
afraid of nearness.


A GEM FROM WHITTIER.

	To appreciate the truth and beauty of the
following lines from the pen of Whittier,
(says the Hudson Republican,) it is neces-
sary to know the circumstances under which
they were written. A friend of Whittier's
youth, who had spent most of his life on
the Illinois prairries, called on the bachelor
poet, at his home in Amesbury, and together
they recalled the scenes of their childhood,
and briefly recounted the course of their
after life. Whittier seemed much affected
by the allusions of his friend to his prairie
home, where a wife, children, and a grand-
child ("Constance") awaited his return; and
on being asked for his autograph, replied,
"Call on your way to the cars and I will


hand it to you." The friend called, and re-
ceived the following gem, which he permits
us to publish. The lines show the delicate
texture of the poet's heart, the tendrils of
which were evidently stretching after some-
thing beyond the reach of a bachelor.

	The years, that since we met have flown,
	Leaves, as they found me, still alone.
	Nor wife, nor child, or grand child dear
	Are mine, the heart of age to cheer.
	More favored thou; with hair less gray
	Than mine, can'st let thy fancy stray
	To where thy little Constance sees
	The prairie ripple in the breeze.
	For one like her to lisp thy name
	Is better than the voice of Fame.
							[J. G. WHITTIER.


MR. GRAY AT HOME.

	"You have done the chores, haven't you
wife?" Said Mr. Gray coming in one night
about sundown.
	"No, dear, I had supper to get, and the
baby was so cross."
	"You haven't been getting supper all the
afternoon I hope."
	"No I had some washing to do, and the
windows to clean, and the pies to bake,
and"—
	"Oh, stop that, please. To hear you talk,
one would think you had more than your
share of work. I'm sure there is no man
tries harder than I do to save his wife steps,
and this is  the thanks I get for it. Don't
go to contradicting me. Give me the milk
buckets; if I ask you to milk, you will have
a dozen excuses. I want Katie to go with 
me, to keep the hogs off while I milk."
	Katie goes, and her father keeps her
three-quarters of an hour, and then tells her
she can go and take care of the baby while
her mother attends to the milk. In about
five minutes Mr. Gray comes in to supper.
His wife is down in the cellar.
	"Say, wife, ain't supper ready?"
	"In just a minute."
	"Just a minute! Everything is done in
just a minute. Another night, I suppose, I
will have to come in and get supper for my-
self, after working hard all day. If you
tried as hard as I do to make home pleasant,
we would get along a great deal better than
we do. You are always behind with every-
thing, and then you grumble because you
have so much work to do. Well, supper is
ready at last, is it? It is about time, I 
think."
	They sit down to table.
	"O Lord, we thank thee for this and all
other blessings; feed us with the bread of
life, and save us in heaven. Amen. Is
this the best table-cloth you have got?"
	"Yes."
	"It is? Why don't you buy another?
Ain't you got any money? What did you
do with the money you got for those eggs?
	"Bought a hat for Katie."
	"Bought a hat for Katie, and me needing
I don't know how many farm implements.
I never knew such extravagance in my life.
It would please me exceedingly if you
would consult me about such matters after
this. I guess I'll go to bed. I can't have
any peace up. Wife, before you come to
bed, just patch that rent in my coat; and
oh! I wore a hole in my sock to-day. You 
must either mend it, or get me out a clean
pair. There is a chicken in the barrel by
the hen-house; I want that for my break-
fast. Come children, come and kiss papa.
Good-night, and don't forget to say your
prayers."'


THERE are 800,000 more women than men
in England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMEN'S EXPONENT, 
					Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

			 LOCAL.
	The Co-operative Institution has discon-
tinued the retail dry goods business at the
Eagle Emporium store in this city, and
William Jennings has purchased their stock
......Mrs. Ann Eliza Young has been lectur-
ing in this city about Religion and the Re-
ligious system of the Mormons......Military
regulations lately made at Camp Douglas
provide that there shall be an officer of the
day at the post, and an officer of the provost
guard; there will be frequent patrols made,
and any enlisted man found without a pass
or one with a pass who in any way miscon-
ducts himself will be arrested......The Salt
Lake Theatre is illuminated by a new con-
stellation, Hoskins, Colville and Darrell......
A new pleasure boat, made to sail on Salt 
Lake and called the Sea Gull, has been built
by Mr. Thomas Whittaker of Centerville
......The street railway in this city is to be
extended eastward from the Valley House
corner to Lindsay's Gardens......The people
of Cache Valley look for another hard win-
ter and there cold weather has already com-
menced....Drunken soldiers have of late been
more than usually numerous and insolent
about town......The post office at Spring-
dale, Kane County, Utah, has been discon-
tinued......Judge McKean has ruled in fa-
vor of the city, that liquor stores shall not
be open after nine o'clock p. m.......Marcus
L. Ward, ex-Govenor of New Jersey, and
wife, lately visited this city......Fruit and
melons in great abundance have been raised
in and about the city this year......A con-
siderable quantity of the wheat crop in
Cache Valley has been destroyed by rust.
			PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Akers Allen—"Florence
Percy"—is on the editorial staff of the Port-
land Advertiser......Victor Emanuel is hunt-
ing in the Alpine Valleys......Mme. Janau-
schek, the celebrated tragediene is playing
in New York, and Mr. George D. Chaplin
who lately finished an engagement in this
city is to be her leading supprot for the next
season........Isadora Pratt of Massachusetts
has gained admittance to the Berlin Royal
Art Academy......Ella Rowell, of Stewart,
Iowa, has been appointed postmistress at
that place......Gov. Tabbot's chances for re-
ceiving the Republican nomination for Gov-
ernor of Massachusetts are becoming more
favorable......Mrs. F. F. Victor is publishing
a complete account of the late movement
in the cause of temperance and reform, in
a pamphlet entitled "Woman's War with
Whisky, or Crusading in Portland......Sum-
ner's death cost Masachusetts $40,000......
Miss Thompson, who lately won fame at the 
royal academy is now painting a charge at
Waterloo of French cavalry against Eng-
lish infantry......James W. Marshall who is
said to have first discovered gold in Califor-
nia, is in receipt of an allowance of one
hundred dollars per month from that State
......Mrs. Stonewall Jackson lives in Char-
lotte, North Carolina, is about thirty years
old and said to be very beautiful......James
Clark of London is translating Shakespeare
into the Spanish Language......The Empress
of Austria is called the handsomest princess
and one of the handsomest women of Eu-
rope.
			GENERAL.
	The Indians are reported to be trouble-
some on the Union Pacific Railroad line, 
near North Platte, Nebraska.........Soda
Springs, in Idaho, is fast becoming a favorite
Watering Place or Summer Resort......Sil-
ver City, Idaho, lately held a grand cele-
bration in honor of the completion of the
telegraph to that place......The Maine Uni-
versalist Convention, held on the twenty-
fifth of June last, recognized the eligibility
of women to the Christian Ministry......
Sumner's grave in Mount Auburn cemetry
has yet no stone, and a lady visiting there
lately, found it with difficulty, marked only
with a stake at the head, to which was fas-
tened a visiting card bearing the words
"Sumner's Grave"......Several English farm
laborers, thrown out of employ, have left
England for Canada under the arrangements
made by Mr. Joseph Arch with the Cana-
dian Government, taking with them their
wives and children......This year vacation
month, August, has five Sundays; it is there-
fore known as "Ministers Leap Year"......
Yeddo now publishes a Japanese "Punch"
......The feminine students at Wooster Col-
lege, Ohio, are said to equal the masculines
in both mathematics and languages......One
of the reporters of a New York paper is an
ex-English officer who once out-ranked Sir
Garnet Wolsely in his own regiment......
One hundred dollars each, has been given
by Senator Edmunds and Walter Green, to
the art Gallery of the University of Ver-
mont at Burlington......The street car com-
panies of New Orleans have adopted the
London and Paris plan, and refuse transpor-
tation to a greater number of passengers
than can be seated......A young lady of Sa-
lem Massachusetts, has run a sewing ma-
chine and payed her own expences for two
years, and she also graduated at the head of
the graduating class of the Normal School.


EXHORTATIVE.

	"If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of
God, that giveth to all men liberally, and up-
braideth not; and it shall be given him."
	Is not this passage of Scripture applicable to us
all, especially at the present time? Is there any
sister in our community who does not feel that
we need all the wisdom, knowledge, and un-
derstanding, that God, in His mercy and lov-
ing kindness can bestow upon us, to help us
keep our covenants and fight the battle against
sin and Satan that is daily and hourly raging
against us, so that we may gain the victory and
prove ourselves Saints of God, in very deed?
What do we, as daughters of Zion, need to do
in order to strengthen and fortify ourselves
against the attacks that are made upon us on
every hand? We must arouse ourselves and
root out of our hearts every evil and overcome
every weakness that is likely to prove a barrier
between us and the Spirit of God. We are
the children of one family, belonging to one
household of faith, members of one church
namely, the Church of Jesus Christ, subjects
of one King, who is the King of Kings and
Lord of Lords.	
	Let us, as sisters, put from us all nationality
and prejudice; all covetousness, envy, and
malice, and every feeling calculated to mar the
peace of mind, and destroy the unity and love
that the principles of the Gospel of Jesus brings
to us when we observe them as we should.
	Let us be up and awake; shake off the slum-
ber that we have given way to; fast and pray
for that faith which was given to the Saints
anciently, for wisdom to guide us in all our
acts, and for the spirit of discernment that we
may know good from evil; let us wrestle with
the Lord, in mighty prayer, that we may have
strength to overcome the evils around us and
our children.
	Our fathers, husbands, and brothers, who
are faithful, need all the help we can give them
to buoy them up and cheer them onward in
the path of duty; and shall we sustain them in
their glorious calling, help them roll on the
work, and build up the kingdom of our God?
Yes, a thousand times yes! then let us away
with all folly and foolish pride and say: "We
will not pattern after the world, neither will
we follow after its pleasures." The question
comes before us, "What shall we do with our
children?" Help them to understand the faith
that we have embraced, educate them thor-
oughly to know the principles of the everlast-
ing Gospel. Teach them to pray earnestly for
the Spirit of God to guide them aright, that
they may not be led away from the path of
truth and virtue. Teach them to pray for and
sustain the Priesthood of the true and living
God. Lead them to emulate all good works.
Show them by our own acts and our faith, that
we practise what we preach, or in other words,
that we have proved for ourselves and can help
them to obtain knowledge and strength for
themselves, which will not prove delusive,
neither will it be fleeting or transient, but will
be sure beyond anything that the world, Satan
or his emissaries can give them. Help them
to be firm; to be punctual in every thing and
faithful to every trust, no matter how small; to
let no one outvie or outstrip them, in humility
courtesy and kindness; to treat the aged, and
the humblest of our brethren and sisters with
respect, no matter how poorly clad. Then we
will have noble sons and daughters, that moth-
ers will cherish, fathers will love and God will
pour down his blessings upon, as he did upon
the infant Samuel. Then shall our light
shine forth to the world in effulgent rays: it
will be as a beacon set upon a hill, that will
lead the weary and world-worn traveller to a
haven of rest; it will be like building our
house upon a rock that no wind or wave can
wash away, or persecution overcome.
	Let us each learn this lesson, let our hands
stretch forth in one faithful, united effort, our
hearts beat as one; and let us pledge ourselves
to sustain the Kingdom of God and its princi-
ples, while life shall last; and our children will
honor and sustain us for so doing.
	Some of my sisters may say, their poverty
prevents them, or they have so much trouble
they have no heart to stir themselves—St. Paul
says that God dealeth with us as with children
and if we are without trouble or chastisement,
then are we bastards and not the children of
God, for he chastens us for our profit that we
may bring forth fruits of righteousness.
								E. D.


EDUCATION.

	There is no subject of more importance to a
community or a nation than is the subject of
Education. On it depends the future destiny
of nations, kingdoms and empires; their rise
and progress, or fall and dissolution, in propor-


tion to the intelligence of the people. Under
these considerations, we would suggest the
policy of organizing a co-operative system of
education that will afford facilities for all who
wish to become students and are not able to do
so for want of means; that they be furnished
with manual labor, and learn trades that will
enable them to pay for their tuition. This we
consider far preferable to a free school system;
as the females as well as males may be taught
how to be self-sustaining. Shall women al-
ways be dependent? or will mothers wake up
to their duties and teach their daughters the
importance of learning trades and that the
true results of education are to produce what
they consume and to do something, not only
for themselves but for others. It has been a
long established custom in the training of fe-
males to teach them that they are dependent
while the males are thrown on their own re-
sources, this is all right but let woman do her
part, so that a man may know that when he
takes a wife he does not take a parlor ornament,
to waste all that he can earn, in extravagance. 
There is certainly a great responsibility resting
upon wives and mothers in regard to the health
aud longevity of their families. Teachers and
parents cannot attach too much importance to
the subject of diet and every woman should
understand the art of cooking. Never, until
we thus popularize this accomplishment, can
we expect to see healthy modes of living and a
people free from disease. 			W.E.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 		61﻿


LITERARY NOTICE.
	
	"The Bible and Polygamy" is the title of
another neat publication issued from the Des-
eret News establishment. It is a republication
of the celebrated disscussion, between Prof.
Orson Pratt and Rev. Dr. J. P. Newman on
plural marriage; also of three sermons on the
same subject by Prest. Geo. A, Smith and El-
ders O. Pratt and G. Q. Cannon. This work is
for sale at the Deseret News Office or will be
mailed from there on receipt of the price: 50
cts.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON OR about the 23rd instant, the company
of immigrants who left Liverpool September
2nd will arrive here. They number about five
hundred and fifty.
	THE PASSENGER train on the Utah Southern
Railroad now leaves this City at 7 a. m.; ar-
rives at 2 p. m.; arrives at Provo at 10.15 a. m.
and leaves there at 10.45 a. m. This change of
time went into effect on the 10th inst.
	ELDER AMA L. Smith has been appointed to
preside over the Sandwich Island Mission in
the place of Elder F. A. Mitchell who will be
released to return home, on the arrival of Elder
Smith at Laie.
	FIVE BOXES, containing over one hundred
varieties of fruit have been sent by the Horti-
cultural Society of this city, to the Pennsylva-
nia Horticultural Society's exhibition, which
opens to-day—Sept. 15th. Our Horticultural
Society deserves congratulations for their
promptness and pains taking in endeavoring to
show of the good effects of home labor in their
line of business.
	UNDER THE supervision of Mr. Henry Grow,
the Warm Spring Bath House is undergoing a
complete change. Many improvements are
being made and additional rooms prepared for
the accommodation of visitors. Zinc, instead
of lead, is being used in painting the bath tubs
and the general wood work of the house, as the


mineral in the spring water has formerly had
the effect of turning the paint black, which, it
is believed this change will prevent.
	DURING THE month of August, 1874, twenty-
one million, four hundred and thirty-six thou-
sand, one hundred and sixty-three pounds of
freight passed over the Utah Central Railroad.
And in the same time, thirty-eight million, six
hundred and eighteen thousand, and forty-
seven pounds of freight passed over the Utah
Southern Railroad. A few years ago, when all
the freighting in this part of the country was
done with ox teams, so much bnsiness might
not have been accomplished in a whole year.
But these are fast times.
	THE FIRST instance, we believe, of ladies be-
ing called to act as jurors at a coroner’s inquest
in this Territory occurred on the 11th inst. It
appears that a young man, named Wm. Fletch-
er was killed at the Moltke mine, Little Cot-
tonwood, on the evening of the 10th; probably
through the premature explosion of a charge.
His body was brought to his father’s residence
in this city where, on the following day, an in-
quest was held. The jury, consisting of Joseph
Warburton, Mrs, Anna King and Mrs. Eliza-
beth Higgs, rendered a verdict in accordance
with the evidence and quite as creditably, so
states a daily paper, as if two of them had not
belonged to the “weaker sex.”


REPORTER'S RAMBLINGS.

	Since our last, we have been rambling in
pursuit of appetite for food to lubricate the
wheels of thought and strengthen the mus-
cles for labor. Our note of
			PROVO
is one of pleasant remembrances where we
spent a few days of unalloyed pleasure with
kindest friends of former days. Flowers,
fruits and social converse made time’s flight
almost imperceptible. On the day of our
departure we “done” the great public at-
traction, the Woolen Factory and the prac-
tical machinist, Mr. Lowery made us appre-
ciate the value of applied skill, good ma-
chinery and artistic taste in the production
of finer and more delicately tinted fabrics
than we had supposed could be produced in
the Territory. There is an extensive tailor-
ing department connected with the factory.
From here we started for the railway cars;
our way was beset with a hospitable lunch
which beguiled us while time sped on with
its accustomed regardlessness and we were
just two minutes too late for the train. O!
too late for the train!
			AT FIVE P. M.
we took the express train for American
Fork where we arrived in time to listen to
an earnest and instructive discourse by
Pres. A. O. Smoot. 
		THE NEXT MORNING,
by invitation, we accompanied friends in a
pleasant drive to Alpine, distant six miles.
The location of this thrifty little town is
peculiarly attractive, nestling, as it were,
under the brow of a mountain; with crystal
streams meandering here and there furnish-
ing mill-power, fish-ponds, churn-power, and
numerous other attractions and convenien-
ces. There is a degree of neatness and or-
der perceptible in and around Alpine that
bears resemblance to a well regulated mili-
tary post. The most pretentious edifice is
the Church which is large and commodious;
and when completed it will be an elegant
structure. Here, much, if not most of the
oratorical talent of Utah Co. was assembled
and exercised on the subject of United in-


terests, which seems the absorbing topic in
all our borders. We left Alpine with a sin-
cere desire that its hospitable inhabitants
might live long and be happy; that its fish
might increase and grow larger; and that
its strawberries might never be like our ap-
ples, wormey—here we pause to say that 
like "Utania" of the "Herald" we have a 
painful inspiration that causes us to join the
army to do battle against the dog, the poison
dog. Let them all be sent to Bergh's cor-
ral. 							S.M.K.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IN New York City over 66 per cent. of all
the teachers are women. Chicago employs
93 per cent. of female teachers.
	THERE are fifty-seven lodges of Odd Fel-
lows in California, with a total membership
of 3,015.
	IT is a criminal offence in France for a
young lady to have in her possession a pho-
tograph of the Prince Imperial.
	INDEPENDENT of rent-free and tax-free
residences, the Royal Family of England
draw from the public treasury the annual
sum of £655,674. This makes the entire
cost, on account of that one family, $2,377,
870 a year in gold.
	MRS. Anna G. R. Bacon, now residing
with her son at Sherburne, N. Y., attained,
her 101st birthday July 14th. She is in
good health and is the oldest person now
living in that town. 
	ABOUT a ton of ice is used every night to
cool the air that is pumped into the House 
of Commons. The air is filtered and ren-
dered absolutely pure. 	
	DURABILITY OF GOLD AND SILVER COINS.
—It appears from experiments made in St.
Peersburg that, contrary to the opiniont
generally entertained, gold coin wears away
faster than that of silver. Twenty pieces
of gold, half imperials, and as much of sil-
ver copecks—coins of about the same size-
were put into new barrels, mounted like
churns, which were kept turning for four
hours continually. It was then found, on
weighing the coins, that the gold ones had
lost sixty-four grammes—the silver ones
only thirty-four; but as the gold pieces
were twenty-eight per cent. less than those
of silver, the proportion is of course greater
to that amount in favor of the latter. The
silver also contained more alloy than the
gold.
	WOMEN IN MEDICINE.—“It must not be
forgotten that a woman in the sixteenth
century lectured ably on obstetrics to large
classes of both sexes; that a woman discov-
ered the cause of uterine hemorrhages;
that a woman brought into notice the now
indispensible Peruvian bark, having first
tested its virtue; that a woman perfected a
system of artificial nourishment for babes,
which is still in use in France; that a woman
first illustrated her lectures by a manikin of
her own invention; that a woman made the
first wax preparations for the use of stu-
dents in anatomy; that a woman was the
earliest performer of the Cæsarean opera-
tion; that a woman effected the introduc-
tion of inoculation for smallpox; that a wo-
man brought to perfection a tube for the
restoration of children born in a state of
asphyxia; that a women prepared the first
illustrated medical botany, and that some
very important treatise on different themes
in medical sciences have been written by
women.—Rev. O. B. Frothingham.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"JUST THIS ONCE."

"Just this once," the tempter said,
	With smiling lip;
Thus enticed, the victim took
	The fatal sip;
And years rolled on, his doom is wed,
Death glooms above the drunkard's bed.

"Just this once," the tempter said,
	With luring voice.
Tremblingly the victim threw
	The rattling dice;
And years rolled on; the river's wave
Rolls darkly o'er a gambler's grave,

"Just this once," the tempter said,
	No one shall know,"
The victim, thoughtless, gave his soul
	To ceaseless woe;
And years rolled on: oh, fearful scene!
The death bed of a libertine.

"Just this once," the tempter said,
	"My faith I pledge."
The victim dreamed not that her deed
	Was ruin's edge; 
The years rolled on: ah, 'tis the same!
A suicidal death of shame.
						SELECTED.


HOUSEHOLD. HINTS.

	Preserving Eggs.—It is stated that in Germany
they pack eggs with the small end down, in dry
ashes, and find no trouble in keeping them.
	To Clean Paint.—Smear it over with whiting,
mixed to the consistency of common paste in warm
water. Rub the surface to be cleaned briskly,
and wash off with pure cold water. Grease spots
will, in this way, be instantly removed, as well as
other marks, and the paint will retain its beauty
and brilliancy unimpaired. 
	To Kill Flies.—It it said by one who has tried
it that a strong tea of quassia sweetened with mo-
lasses will kill flies, and has the advantage of not
being a deadly poison. It is said, too, that horses
washed with a tea of quassia will not be tormented
by flies. It can be bought at any drug store, and
is worth trying if it will abate the fly nuisance.
	Russian Cream.—One quart of milk, three eggs,
one cup of sugar, half package Cox's gelatin, va-
nilla or lemon flavoring. Dissolve gelatin in half
pint of tepid water, bring to a warm temperature
but not scalding. Beat the yelks of the eggs and
sugar together. Bring the milk to a boil, then
add the dissolved gelatin, to eggs and sugar
and let it just come to a boiling point, but no
more, as it is too stiff. Beat the whites and re-
move the mixture from the stove, and add whites
to it, also flavoring, and pour into moulds. This
requires to stand longer than wine jelly. If wan-
ted for dinner make the day before. Eat with
cream if you like.
	Cheap Vinegar.—Take a quantity of common
Irish potatoes, wash them until they are thoroughly
clean, place them in a large vessel and boil them
until done. Drain off carefully the water that they
were cooked in, straining it, if necessary, in order
to remove every particle of potato. Then put this
potato water in a jug or keg, which set near the
stove, or in some place where it will be kept warm,
and add one pound of sugar to about two and one-
half gallons of the water, some hop yeast, or a
small portion of whisky. Let it stand three or 
four weeks, and you will have excellent vinegar,
at a cost of six or seven cents per gallon; and is
said to be the only vinegar that will preserve cu-
cumbers cut fresh from the vines without the aid
of salt.
	Keeping Meals Waiting.—Little things interfere
with our comfort very much, and one small annoy-
ance is for men to delay coming to dinner when
called. Sometimes they have an hour or more of
work they will do before quitting and then they go
to the house to find the dinner cold, and the cook
discouraged. Nothing is more disheartening to a
tired woman than a table full of dirty dishes or-


namenting of the table an hour and a half later in the
day than usual. Punctuality is a virtue that men
should learn if they are in the habit of being un-
certain about coming to meals. Any woman wor-
thy the name of a housekeeper will be regular with
her meals if it lies in her power to have them
so.
	Cherry Pumpling.—Put cherries 3 inches deep
on the bottom of a porcelain-lined kettle. Throw
in sugar to sweeten, add half a teacup of water and
sprinkle over enough flour to slightly thicken the
juice. Roll out raised Graham biscuit crust—
shortened with cream— about an inch thick, which
spread quite over the cherries. Cover the kettle
tight, (shutting the cover in with a cloth spread
over the top if need be,) and cook steadily on the
top of the stove, taking care that it shall not burn,
three-quarters of an hour or so, until the crust is
well cooked. The same may be more safely
steamed if the conveniences are at hand. Another
way is to put the cherries into a nappie or pie
dish, cover with thick crust, and bake in the oven.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	HINTS FOR NURSES.—The following sensi-
ble suggestions are from the pen of Florence
Nightingale: Conciseness and decision are,
above all things necessary with the sick.
Let your thought expressed to them be
concisely and decidedly expressed. What
doubt and hesitation there may be in your
own mind must never be communicated to
theirs, not even (I would rather say espe-
cially not) in little things. Let your doubt
be to yourself, your decision to them. Peo-
ple who think outside their heads, the
whole process of whoso thought appears,
like Homer’s, in the act of secretion, who
tell everything that led them towards this
conclusion and away from that, ought never
to be with the sick.
	Irresolution is what all patients most
dread. Rather than meet this in others,
they will collect all their data, and make up
their minds for themselves. A change of
mind in others, whether it is regarding an
operation, or re-writing a letter, always in-
jures the patient more than the being called
upon to make up his mind to the most
dreaded or difficult decision. Further than
this, in very many cases, the imagination
in disease is far more active and vivid than
it is in health. If you propose to the pa-
tient change of air to one place one hour,
and to another the next, he has in each case,
immediately constituted himself in imagi-
nation the tenant of the place, gone over
the whole premises in idea, and you have
tired him as much by displacing his imagi-
tion, as if you had actually carried him over
both places.
	Above all, leave the sick room quickly
and come into it quickly, not suddenly, not
with a rush. But don’t let the patient be
wearily waiting for when you will be out of
the room or when you will be in it. Con-
ciseness and decision in your movements,as
well as your words, are necessary in the sick
room, as necessary as absence of hurry and
bustle. To possess yourself entirely will
ensure you from either failing—either loit-
ering or hurrying.
	If a patient has to see, not only to his
own but also to his nurse’s punctuality, or
perseverance, or readiness, or calmness, to
any or all of these things, he is far better
without that nurse than with her—however
valuable and handy her services may other-
wise be to him, and however incapable he
may be of rendering them to himself.
	SODA EOR TOOTH ACHE.—A correspond-
ent of the London Medical Gazette, has
discovered that soda is a remedy for the
tooth ache. He says the most pleasant and
agreeable soda will immediately or in a few
minutes cause entire cessation of pain, by
filling the tooth carefully with the powdered
carbonate, so that it may descend to the
nerve, which its solution in the saliva will
soon after allow it to do. He says he is not
aware that it will cure all cases or make a 
permanent cure, though it will relieve the 
sufferer for many hours.
	REMEDIES FOR COSTIVENESS.—Costive-
ness has an agreeable remedy in the free use
of tomatoes at meals—their seeds acting in
the way of the white mustard or figs, by
stimulating the coats of the bowels over
which they pass, in their whole state, to in-
creased action.	
	A remedy of equal efficiency, in the same
direction is cracked wheat—that is, common
white wheat grains, broken into two or
three pieces, and then boiled until it is as
soft as rice, and eaten mainly at two meals
of the day, with butter or molasses.
	PRECAUTIONS AGAINST TRICHINA.—Eat
no uncooked or half-cooked hog’s flesh.
The raw flesh of the hog, whatever its shape
or condition, whether ham, bacon, or pork,
salt or fresh, smoked or unsmoked, is liable
to contain this parasite, full of life and ac-
tivity that may work a remediless mischief
in the human body. Bologna sausage, if
pork be in it uncooked, is as dangerous as
any form of this meat. The heat that cooks
meat utterly destroys the life and mischiev-
ous power of these vermin, and no one need
fear any harm if this fact is observed.


THE YOUNG lady students at Willow Park
Seminary, Westbro, Mass., are expected to
practise Dress Reform and Physical culture,
every one being required to wear the gym-
nastic costume instead of any other. The
following statement concerning physical
culture appears in the catalogue of the in-
stitution:
	"We wish our students to have a sound
mind in a sound body, hence forty minutes
of each school-day are devoted to well-
studied Physical Exercises, upon the plan
of Dr. Dio Lewis' Light Gymnastics. We
have a thoroughly competent teacher, whose
business it is to attend punctually to teach-
ing, drilling, and otherwise carrying out
the details of this department. The Pro-
prietor, a practical physician, gives special
attention to the Boarding Department of
Physical Culture,as well as to all that tends to
give health and vigor to the students while
here, and a capability to retain the same
after leaving the school. In this depart-
ment our school has proved a perfect success.
Young ladies who, by repeated trials, have
found themselves totally unable to attend
school a term without breaking down, have
here pursued a thorough course of studies a
full year, and then left the Institution vig-
orous and healthy. The value of this fea-
ture of our school cannot be estimated.
Each student is entitled to one Turkish
Bath per week (though it is not a require-
ment); and so beneficial has the bath proved
in relieving the system of all impurities,
and consequently giving fair and healthy
complexions, that parents often wish their
daughters to have an extra bath each week at
an extra expense. We believe that this is the
only school in the world where the pupil
has weekly access to the Turkish Bath.”


﻿“GETTING BORN costs the people of the
United States $220,005,000 annually; get-
ting married, $250,000,000." Now for the
consequental expenses who has the figures?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FIRST-BORN.

	How many families we see stricken, like
Egypt, with the loss of the first-born! Re-
mark to the proud and happy mother that
her grade of blooming children seems un-
broken, and mark the swift change on her
expressive countenance as she answers with
a fluttering sigh, “Ah, but my first is dead.”
	By no means is this always the case—God
forbid it should be!—but it is too often so,
and leads us to wonder longingly if there
be no possibility of discovering and remov-
ing the causes of such dreadful misfortune.
	Many suppose it to be owing to the young
mother’s inexperience and consequent mis-
management of the tender unit of human-
ity in early infancy—mistakes in feeding,
washing, dressing, and hours of activity
and rest—which injure the child’s health.
Doubtless there is much truth in these con-
clusions; at least we dare not deny it while
contemplating the extremes of youth and
inexperience which are allowed to embark
in this greatest beyond comparison of hu-
man enterprises—the launching of immortal
souls for the voyage of life on the ocean of
Eternity.
	But the never failing fountain of tender-
ness which the advent of a child opens in
the mother’s soul, destroys all awkwardness,
all weariness, all heedlessncss at one lave of
its pure waters. Though this instinct can-
not quite supply the place of understanding
acquired by teaching and experience, it is
in many cases an all-sufficient substitute.
The mother’s sudden and keen realization
of boundless yet happy responsibility has
been said and sung too often to need repeti-
tion; but the great pity is that, beautiful
though it be, it should be considered a per-
fect guide: and it must be so considered,
judging from the fact that none but acci-
dental preparation is ever made before as-
suming such high and holy duties.
	However, much as I lament this fact and
condemn such practice, I do not for one mo-
ment, believe that want of proper care in
infancy is the most fruitful source of death
to the first-born. I admit that inexperience,
ignorance is the cause, but I consider the
effects of that inexperience before the day
of washing and dressing to be far more
baleful than later. Were it not so, why
should the poor washerwoman’s neglected
baby, which creeps through puddles of suds
and eats all manner of improper things, live
and thrive when others pine away under
the best of care? A worm at the root of a
tree will kill it when on its remote twigs it
would not be felt.
	There are a thousand adverse circum-
stances attending the advent of the first-born,
which come not again; and it is to a few of
these I would call the attention of mothers
—present and prospective. 
	To take things in their proper order, be-
gin with the timid, ignorant young bride
entering her new life, like a lamb into un
known pasture, knowing not what may be-
fall; or like a rare plant transplanted into
alien soil, drooping, fainting, dying for a
dewdrop of comfort, a friendly shade from
the too ardent sun of criticism. The most
delicate and sensitive organization is, under
happy conditions, best qualified to endow a
new life with proper attributes of mind and
body; but it also suffers most keenly and is
most injured by whatever is unfavorable.
	With these facts in view, imagine the
situation when, perhaps before the lamb
learns that the new abode is home, or the
plant has time to take root and rise erect,
she finds herself, and in all probability un-
willingly, approaching the throne of moth-
erhood. However welcome that throne and
crown might be a few years or even a few
months hence, she now shrinks back affrigh-
ted, knowing that she is not yet able to bear
calmly the many small, contemptible, and
yet to her, in her transition state, galling,
rankling attendant annoyances.
	She knows one of her “dear friends" will
say to another “They say the —’s are al-
ready looking for an heir!” and the response
will be “Is that true? Why, when were
they married?” Just listen to the bitter
insult scarcely veiled! her cheeks burn and
her heart beats fast over the contemplation.
She knows they count months, weeks and
days, seeking her confusion, and when she
reflects that very small causes are often
sufficient to shorten the allotted time of ex-
pectation, and that on this slender thread of
chance hangs, in some degree, her reputa-
tion, is it any wonder that her already tight-
ly tensioned nerves almost snap asunder, or
that her fancy exaggerates the evils which
seem to threaten her? Or can this condition
of overwrought anxiety fail to injure the
constitution of her helpless and passive
charge?
	I knew an expectant young mother who
overheard one who should have been her
friend, wondering if she did not suppose
herself so great an invalid that she must go
to bed every day.
	She was so shocked by the unfeeling re-
mark, so disappointed in her friend, and suf-
fered her resentment to rise so high, that
she never once suffered herself to lie down
in the daytime though she trembled with
weakness or panted with weariness. Fool-
ish! to be sure, but perfectly natural; and
who dares deny that she tasked her child’s
strength as severely as her own, and by her
foolishness lessened its power to resist child-
hood’s inevitable accidents and ailments?
Oh! do any who see the earth heaped over
the cold clay of the first-born ever ask in
secret self-examinati[-]n “Have I ever in any
such way helped to dig this grave?”
	Again, the maiden enters upon her wife
and motherhood with very eroneous ideas
of life—pictures drawn from the pages of
romance and fiction. One particular mis-
chievous sentence often found in such
places is this: “And between the devoted
pair had never passed one hasty word.”
Now this world’s children are but human,
and passing indisposition may call forth a
hasty word, while accidental misunder-
standings are apt to do so. But she, fully
imbued with the beautiful fable that love
completely eradicates, instead of only im-
proving, the inferior parts of human nature,
goes to her new life determined that her
happiness shall be unclouded because that
fatal first word shall never be spoken. Im-
agine, then, her  despair when she learns
that both she and her husband fall far short
of her fair but imaginable ideal.
	The pettish, the unkind, the even cruel
word is spoken, and she, poor unsophistica-
ted dove, thinks her life a failure and her
happiness a complete wreck. She is disap-
pointed both in herself and in her husband.
She finds him less yielding now to her rea-
sonable wishes, and less careful of her ac-
tual needs than once he was to her whims
and of her pleasures. Although she might
have found these things endurable had she
expected and prepared for them, in her ig-
norance she takes it for proof that he does
not love her, and grieves accordingly.
	She finds herself less guarded both in
words and actions than she intended to be,
loses faith in her own disposition, and broods
over her self-searching and the unlooked
for difficulties in the way of happiness until
her husband sometimes loses faith in her
also; if she discover this then her cup of 
despair is indeed full.
	I think it no wonder Cain had a sulky,
suspicious discontcd disposition! Any
daughter of Eve, hurried into motherhood
before these lessons are well learned, and all
inward tumults calmed, need not wonder
if the life-forces of her child be not well
balanced, and that, escaping death, it be
peevish and illtempered for life.
	As a remedy, all young persons, male or
female, should be thoroughly taught con-
cerning the actual, everyday, homely reali-
ties and duties of life, for when this prosy
foundation is satisfactorily laid the beauties
and poesies of life are easily added. Let
each know what he or she promises when
agreeing to mingle life with another’s, and
the trials to be met, that the husband may
not expect all the “adaptation,” the fitting
ones nature to the grooves of another’s, to
come from the wife; nor the wife expect the
husband always to go singing songs to the
moon or quoting rhymes to her eyes.
	Let the wife be her own judge concerning
her own fitness and readiness to undertake
the duties of motherhood, so lovely and so
alluring to every contented, beloved wife.
	“Last, though not least,” I would recom-
mend all third parties strictly to refrain
from meddling with the affairs of the young
matrimonial voyagers until called on for
their assistance.			L. L. D.


A SCHOLAR'S WORDS.

	Dean Stanley of Westminister, in his His-
tory of the Eastern Church, Lecture I.,
says:
	There can be no question that the original
form of baptism—the verv meaning of the
word—was complete emersion in the deep
baptismal waters; and that for at least four
centuries any other form was either un-
known or regarded, unless in the case of
dangerous illness as an exceptional, almost
a monstrous case. To this form the Eastern
Church still rigidly adheres; and the most
illustrious and venerable portion of it, that
of the Byzantine Empire, absolutely repu-
diates and ignores any other mode of ad-
ministration as essentially invalid. The
Latin Church has wholly altered the mode,
and, with the two exceptions of the Cathe-
dral of Milan and the sect of the Baptists, a
few drops of water are now the Western
substitute for the three-fold plunge into the
rushing rivers or the wild baptistries of the
East.


THERE IS an inevitable law of nature, or
Providence, which makes it impossible for
us to disregard any obligation, or any act of
duty, without suffering injury in our moral,
physical, or spiritual nature. Life is given
to us as a means of education and discipline,
and not as a mere means of gratifying self
propensities, and when two people obey the
divine ordinance, and marry, they take up-
on themselves new and weighty responsi-
bilities, which it should be the future busi-
ness of their lives to fulfill. The shirking
of these obligations is not altogether the
fault of women. Pride and the love of pleas-
ure operate quite as strongly with men, and
induce them to sacrifice domestic life, the
love of home, and even of children, to what
are called social and business necessities.
But the reckoning day comes, and the sum
total, when it is figured up, shows a wasted
life, premature death, or an old age of re-
morse and discontent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	ST. LOUIS calls its great bridge "the buckle 
of the nations iron belt."
	WHEN does a man feel girlish? When
he makes his maiden speech.
	IF, "one half of the world don't know
how the other half live" —is it any of their 
business.
	A GRAPESHOT, probably fired during the
Revolution, was found the other day in the
heart of a tree twenty inches in diameter,
in Vermont, near the spot where an old
fort stood. 
	TO deny women the elective franchise be-
cause they cannot bear arms would not be
one whit more unreasonable than to deny
men the ballot because they cannot bear
children. —Grand Rapids evening Post.
	HOSTILE INDIANS are reported to have
been seen on the line of the Union Pacific
Railroad, at or near North Platte, Neb.
Horses, in that vicinity have misterously
disappeared and one man was found dead
with a bullet hole in his back.
	MRS. CYNTHIA Leonard of Chicago heads
an organization of women known as the 
"Good Samaritans," whose object is to aid
struggling women and prevent as far as pos-
sible their falling into vice. Success attend
their worth understakings.
	A CURIOUS literary work has been under-
taken by an English gentleman, under a 
commission from the trustees of the British
Museum. It is a reproduction of the title
page of every book entered at Stationers'
Hall, London, since the beginning of the
reign of Henry the Eighth.
	THE Inaugural Meeting of the Driving
Park Association, was marked by the great-
est trotting event ever known. On the sec-
ond day, Aug. 12, Goldsmith Maid trotted a
mile squarely in 2.14¾, the fastest time on
record. This is a wonderful performance
and eclipses the Maid's previous efforts—
while Bonner's celebrated Dexter, and all
other fast trotters are thrown completely in
the shade.
	AT the Free Training School for Women
in New York, a class is to be organized for
ladies who will be charged a nominal fee,
and they will be instructed in the art of
judicious purchase of provisions and house-
hold goods. In the free cooking class, just
inaugurated, girls will be taught scientific
other teachers. By-and-bye it is the inten-
tion to open a restaurant in the building, by
which the institution may be made self-
supporting. 
	INTELLECT OF WOMEN.—The Dean of
Chester recently made a speech in which he
quoted the opinion of the examiner of Lat-
in at the collegiate schools to the effect that,
comparing the girls with the boys who had
been studying during the same time, he
would give a verdict decidedly in favor of
the girls. The tendency of modern inquiry
is to show conclusively that the long accep-
ted theory that sex affect the mind, and
that men are inherently more intellectual
than women, is erroneous. when we give
women the same opportunities in modern
society that we give men, in the way of
industry and education, what is called the
Woman Question will settle itself." —N.Y.
Herald.
	RUDIMENTS OF HORSE BREAKING.—Miss
Middy Morgan is good authority on training
colds, and this is the way she puts it: The
secret of success in breaking young horses
is to commence early, to give frequent,
short lessons, to repeat each lesson until it
is comprehended, and never to attempt to 
teach two or more lessons at one time. De-
cide which you want to do, then perfect the
animal in one or the other, and the first les-
son having been acquired, the second will 
be attained without trouble. The routine
of horse-breaking, as practiced in the Brit-
ish Isles, is, first make the horse mouth's
and give him a good carriage. This is ef-
fected by using a heavy, smooth mouthing
snaffle, buckling the lower reins to the side
of his roller, and then permitting the pupil
to remain loose in a roomy box stall, where
he can move about and play with his bit.
This will effect more in a shorter time than
any other method. As soon as the colt's 
mouth has become fine, but not till then, he
may be mounted. As carrying a weight on
his back is quite new to the young horse, care
should be had not to permit him to travel fast-
er than a walk until his action has become easy
and free from nervousness. Even then, for
many weeks, he should not be allowed to do
more than trot gently on level ground, and
never be galloped unless on springy turf.
Too deep a soil causes a horse to labor, if
frequently galloped on such his action be-
comes higher and less rapid than it other-
wise would have been.


DIVERSIONS.

	MINISTERS of the interior—The cook and
the doctor. 
	TWO things that are weakened by length-
ening—Steamships and sermons.
	THE St. Louis bridge is a grand work,
but is not without a pier.
	THE latest instance of originality in a
marriage announcement is the following:—
"No cards, no cake, no fuss." 
	THE latest thing in hats—Heads. 
	ON a week day you buy your music by
the sheet. On Sundays you can have it by
the choir.
	AT a hotel table, one boarder said to his
neighbor: "This must be a healthy place
for chickens." "Why?" asked the other.
"Because I've never seen any dead ones
hereabouts."
	IN the hearing of an Irish case for an as-
sault and battery, a counsel, while cross-ex-
amining one of the witnesses, asked him
what they had at the first place they stop-
ped. "Four glasses of ale." What next?"
"Two glasses of whiskey." "What next?'
"One glass of brandy." "What next?"
"A fight."
	DR. Hill, an Edinburgh professor of the
last century, met, in the suburbs of the city,
a man who was generally regarded as an
imbecile. Somewhat irritated by the in-
trusion on the privacy of his walk, Dr. Hill
said to him, "How long, Tom, can one live
without brains?" "I dinna ken," answered
Tom; "how long has ye lived yerself?"
	I SUPPOSE if thare want a solitary human
being on the face ov the earth, the sun 
would still rise in the east and set in the
west, the volkanoes would ockasionally
vomit fire, and Niagara would keep on roar-
ing, but thare's lots ov pholks who don't
think so.—Josh Billings.
	THE head of the family is about to eat an
apple. Mother—"Say, father, give us a
piece." Daughter—"Oh, father, give me a
piece." Son—"O, father, I want a piece."
Niece—"Won't you please to give me a
piece, too?" Father (disgusted)— "Here,


the rest of you take the apple and give me
a piece.”
	A CERTAIN young lady unguardedly vol-
unteered the remark in a family circle, that
“when gentlemen eat warm maple sugar it
gets into their mustaches and makes them
scratchy.” Her father is curious to know
how she found it out.


MRS. WILKINSON
	Is now constantly receiving her Fall Stock of
				 MILLINERY,
Consisting of all the New Styles of Ladies' Hats and
	Bonnets, Velvets, Flowers, Feathers, Ribbons,
		Silks, Laces, etc., together with a fine as-
			sortment of Ladies' White Wear,
Underwear, Children's Caps, Cloaks, Hand-made Woolen
				    Goods, etc.

				H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
			Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three 
				storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., ½ BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
	
			DOCTOR CROCKWELL
Has had nearly 40 years  experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyousones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent.
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.

				CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-			$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 		-	-	-	-	-			  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12X16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-			 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	 48 00
	
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.					

				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 30, 1874.		 NO. 9.﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES

	AN ENGLISH aeronaut complains that his
baloon was fired at not less than three times
during a recent ascent from London, and of-
fers £100 reward for the apprehension of the
parties who fired. 
	THE WOMEN of Iowa have resolved to
lend their influence to have no man elected
to office who does not support the cause of
Woman Suffrage. We think this is sensible
and consistent and hope the ladies of that
State will persevere until they possess the
right to vote equally with the men.
	MRS. CELIA Burleigh, in a recent letter to
the "Woman's Journal," contradicts the re-
port that she is homeless and her life nearly
closed with incurable consumption. We
feel pleased to thus learn that the paragraph
in our last issue concerning her was without
foundation.
	BRET HARTE'S works are reported to
command a higher price than those of any
other writer of the day. His latest story,
"John Oakhurst," was written in one night,
for which he received five hundred dollars.
And yet he can keep no money by him and
is a poor man. Ah! "It is not what we earn
but what we keep that makes us rich."
	WITH ALL the deaths that are daily oc-
curring from diseases and accidents, it seems
that some people cannot be satisfied, but
want themselves to have a hand in the
work of destruction. A man named Hed-
ges shot and killed another by the name of
Golden at Beaver city lately, and Golden
tried as hard but not as successfully to kill
Hedges.
	AT AN election recently held in Alameda
Co., California, to decide the question of
granting liquor license under the "local op-
tion" law, Miss Sallie Hart and other ladies
interested, erected a tent and raised upon it
the American flag. Here they engaged in
the distribution of temperance tickets, when
a mob of infuriated Germans tore down the
flag, attacked the tent and grossly insulted
the ladies. We learn the above from an ex-
change, and the editor sensibly comments
upon the circumstance in the following lan-
guage:—"Are American women not to be
allowed to use so peaceful and quiet a means
of aiding the temperance reform? Not only
deprived of a vote, but they must not even
distribute tickets to legal voters. Said vo-
ters could not be forced to accept or use the
tickets, but if they could be induced to do
so, the voters had certainly a right to vote
as they pleased. Even if they urged the
matter, is there more harm in such elec-
tioneering than by the arguments of whis-
key and money?” 
	STEAM HAS been utilized in many ways
and to a wonderful degree for promoting the
comfort and power of man; and now if the
following be true, there is reason to hope
that it may, in time, do away with the un-
wholesome and disagreeable smoke that
now causes so many localities to be both un-
healthy and unpleasant to work or live in.
"The proprietors of the Cleveland Herald
have recently applied an apparatus to their
office chimney which is claimed to be a per-
fect preventative of smoke and a great saver
of fuel. The discovery which the Herald
thinks a very valuable one, was purely acci-
dental. A mechanic of that city was try-
ing to secure a better draft for a sluggish
fire, and the thought occured to him after
other devices had failed, to try the effects
of steam. A small pipe was made to con-
duct the "dry steam" from the top of the
boiler to the upper part of the furnace,
where it entered in two small jets, striking
downward on the burning fuel. No sooner
was the steam injected into the furnace than
the sluggish, smoky fire sprang into a clear,
bright yellowish and intensely hot flame,
filling the whole furnace with a loud roar.
The man found that he had not only secured
a strong draft, but something much more
important, a smokeless fire. As an experi-
ment the apparatus was attached to the fur-
nace of the Herald engine, which was con-
verted from a neighborhood nuisance of
smoke and soot into a smokeless flue.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Ellen T. Miller of New York, who
died recently, in her will left some $11,
500 to the various benevolent boards of
the Presbyterian Church.
	MISS Laura Redding, "Howard Glyndon"
of the New York mail, was born a deaf
mute, but can now articulate quite dis-
tinctly and not unpleasantly. 
	MRS. H. S. Dickinson, of Holyoke, Mass., 
who has been very successful in her instruc-
tions to young Chinese students, will take
into her family some of the number who
arrived from China early in Septem-
ber.
	MRS. Lindsay, a benevolent Christian
lady, has collected money and books for the
Jewish school at Tangiers. She has seen 
the sad situation of the Jewish children in
that African city, pittied them, and conclud-
ed to assist them. Her efforts have been
crowned with good success.
	MISS Fanny Townsley of Shelburne Falls,
Mass., who has been teaching and doing
missionary work during the last year at
Shelburne Falls, has been engaged to take
charge of the Academy at Wilmington, Vt.
Miss Townsley is an occasional contributor
to Harper's Weekly and other journals.
	LADY Dufferin, wife of the Governor
General of Canada, who accompanied her
husband in his recent visit to the United
States, is much younger than he, and is ev-
idently a lady of great conversational pow-
ers. She has the reputation of poetical
genius, and is said to be descended from
Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
	MRS. Elizabeth Akers Allen (Florence
Percy), is the author of "Rock Me to Sleep
Mother." The poem was written by her
while a factory girl in Maine, upon a sheet
of coarse brown writing-paper in which she
had brought her noon lunch, and while
waiting for the hour to recommence her 
labor. 
	MISS Charlotte W. Ford, a graduate of a
New York medical college and of Mt. Hol-
yoke Seminary, is about to commence prac-
tice in Springfield, Mass. She will be asso-
ciated with Dr. Sarah J. Williams, whose
office practice has increased to the extent 
of occupying her full time, and rendering
necessary an assistant physician.
	MISS Sallie Hooper, over eighty years old,
a native of Northfield, Long Island, N. Y.,
has been committed to the county poor-
house under peculiar circumstances. She
was the owner of a house and lot at Long
Neck, which she agreed to deed to a Mrs.
Ann Eliza Lake and her husband, on con-
dition that they should maintain and take
care of her during her life. The arrange-
ment was made, and she went to reside
with the Lakes, but her life was made so
uncomfortable that she was soon obliged to
leave. She demanded the return of her
property, which was refused. It is probable
that her case will be taken up by the au-
thorities. 
	MISS Jane Ainslie, who died recently in
Edinburgh, was the originator of "The
Flower Mission" in Glasgow. So long as
her strength permitted she personally su-
pervised the mission, carrying baskets full
of bouquets to the Infirmary, where smiles
and words of welcome always awaited her.
When she could no longer pay these visits,
in her sick room, her hands and thoughts
were ever busy in the work. A change to
Grantown in the early part of the summer
was deemed advisable. There her thoughts
were still for the sick and suffering. Al-
most to the last day of her existence she
occupied herself, in the intervals of pain, 
with making small wire baskets to hold ferns
for the patients in the Infirmary. 
	MRS. Susanna Moodie writes to the Tor-
onto "Globe" from Lakefield, Ontario, to 
correct some of the statements published
regarding her sister, the late Miss Agnes
Strickland, the authoress of the histories of
the "Queens of England" and the "Queens
of Scotland." Miss Strickland, she says,
was born in the county of Kent, England,
July 19, 1796. Early in life she showed a
love for history, and soon made herself well
acquainted with the historical works and
the English classics in her father's well-
filled library. She frequently amused and
instructed her brothers and sisters by re-
peating passages from the works she had
read, and during her father's illness read to
him the political events of the day.


A GREAT artist of Boston, who excels in
painting animals, saw as he was passing
through one of the rural towns of Massa-
chusetts a very animated looking bull.
Thinking he would like to take him on can-
vas, he got permission of the owner, an
honest old farmer, and in due time produced
an excellent likeness of the bull which he
sold for $200. On seeing the farmer soon
after, he told him he had sold the picture
of the bull for $200. "Good gracious!" said
the old man; "Why, I would have sold him,
the bull, for less than that."


A BOOKBINDER had a book brought him
to rebind. After the job was finished, he
made the following entry in his day-book,
"To repairing the 'Way to heaven,' twenty-
five cents!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT
		THE NIGHT STORM.

The sun has set behind the western hills,
	And lurid clouds hang o’er the sky;
While sighing winds in murmurs strangely sweet,
	Are whispering that a storm is nigh.

The fast approaching clouds still swifter fly,
	And shroud-like hide the stars from sight;
The moon-beams struggle to be seen a while,
	But soon are hid in deepest night.

Hark! now the distant thunders roll along,
	As peal on peal they nearer sound;
And flashes quicker in succession come,
	And light the darkness all around.

The clouds pour forth on earth their watery stores,
	And vivid tongues of flame still flash;
While thunders, louder, quicker than before,
	Come down with deaf'ning, frightful crash.

Ah! now the leaden clouds fly fast away,
	As if pursuing some retreating foe;
The angry tumult of the storm is past,
	And silence reigns above, below.

The sobbing wind at last is hushed to sleep;
	The moon's pale rays more radiant seem;
The stars are peeping through the rifted clouds,
	And earth and flowers with frangrance teem.

O! Would that thus the storms of life could pass;
	Each dark'ning cloud roll from my sky,
And leave my soul in brighter glow to shine,
	And make me fitter, after each, to die.
									J. E. D.
Salt Lake City, Aug. 29, 1874.


R. S. REPORTS.

	An organization of the young ladies of
Grantsville, Tooele Co., was formed on Thurs-
day, Sep. 17th, at a meeting in that place,
several sisters from this city being present.
The names of the officers of the association
are as follows:
		Miss Rachel Hale, President,
		Miss Harriet C. Bates,	}
		Mrs. Wilda McBride,	}
		Miss Augusta Elison,	}
		  "	Matilda Anderson,	}Counselors.
		  "	Mary A. Hunter,	}		  " 	Lena Lee,			}
		  "	Bertha Sabins, Secretary;
		  "	Mary Worthington, Ass. Secretary.
	The names of seventy-two young ladies
were entered as members of the society;
and Miss Eliza R. Snow remarks concerning
them that a finer group of girls she has never
seen.


SKETCHES.

	In looking over my Journal of 1851, I am
reminded of how my days were spent on
the Tupual Island in the South Pacific
Ocean.
	In the morning I taught the Island child-
ren in the Tahitain tongue; dismissed them
and taught my own and the "half breeds"
in the common branches of the English lan-
guage. A few hours in the afternoon, I
spent in reading, writing and sewing.
	On the 8th of October, Conference time
at Salt Lake, a party of us, nineteen in num-
ber, went for a pleasure excursion to some
small islands called Notus, four in a group.
We landed on the largest, found cocoa nuts,
the men caught fish, made an oven and
cooked food of which we ate heartily
	The island had a delightful appearance,
the green trees—chiefly tamanah and cocoa-
nut, both valuable—contrasting beautifully
with the fine, white sand on the beach. I
walked round it on the reef and picked up
small shells and some fine specimens of cor-
al.
	The men threw up a sort of shelter with
the branches of trees, under which we
spread our bedding and slept comfortably
through the night. The children, (a motly
group, white, half-breeds and full natives,)
seemed all the while delighted. They
strolled about the island, swung on the
branches of the trees and carroled like the
birds. We sailed back with a fair breeze
the next day.
	On the 13th, Captain Johnson's vessel ar-
rived from Tahiti bringing one letter from
Brother Dunn, informing us that he had re-
ceived a letter from Salt Lake, dated more
than a year previous, containing news of
the death of Bishop Whitney and father
Sessions, two good men. I thought if they
knew in Salt Lake how we longed for news
from there, they would neither eat or sleep
until they had a package of letters ready to
send us, assuring us that we were remem-
bered in their prayers. But writing to ab-
sent friends is a duty which is ofter neg-
lected.
	At this time nearly all the people on the
island were preparing to accompany "Pari-
ta" on his mission to Ravaivai. This caused
a little excitement, something to think
about. I held a meeting with the native
sisters and had a little address written,
which Brother Grouard translated into Tahi-
tian for me. They all admired it very
much. I could read well in Tahitian, and
read the 29th chapter of Isaiah which Ellen
explained to them, about the coming forth
of the Book of Mormon. One woman en-
quired if the Nephites were "man taata
papa?"—(Europeans.)—I told her they were
the forefathers of the Tahitians. She
seemed much pleased and expressed a de-
sire to know more about the "Book." That
agrees with a tradition the Islanders have,
that their ancestors came from a great Is-
land to which they could never find an
end.
	On the 20th of October, I wrote in my
journal as follows:
	Three schooners are preparing to leave
Tubuai. Captain Johnson with the "Miri-
ama," the King's vessel, "Messenger" and
the Mormon "Praivai," Captain Grouard.
Our three eldest daughters will go. They
can speak the language and will be useful.
The younger one will remain with her aunt
Crosby. Captain Johnson will take his lit-
tle step daughter, Mary Cane, whom we
have had in our family seven months. It
will grieve Frances to part with her she has
been under her special care, so submissive
and amiable. She is a dear little girl six
years old, born on Toubuai, Her father
was an Irish merchant, her mother a half
white woman. Her father (Mr. Cane) died
and was burried on this island. The na-
tives have a superstition that they must
never pluck fruit growing near a grave.
With a reverent air, silent and thoughtful,
Mary will walk about the grave of her fa-
ther, seeming more like a woman than a
child, regarding the spot as very sacred.
Captain Johnson is a sensible well bred man,
very fond of Mary; her mother is a woman
of very cleanly habits; so the child must
have daily ablutions and every article of
clothing changed. They have made our
daughter many nice presents and commend-
ed her highly for the improvements made
in their little girl.
	Before we were ready to sail for Raivai-
vai, we received a visit from the King of
that island, who informed us that the Mis-
sion House newly erected there, had been
blown down by a hurricane. I remarked
that this seemed to me a sign that we should
not go there to remain long. The King was
very anxious that we should go; said he be-
lieved the whole of his people would re-
ceive the Gospel.
	We sailed on the 27th and reached the
island at 10 o'clock the next morning.
The island of Raivaivai is more mountain-
ous than Toubuai. The small town where
we landed presented a lively appearance
from the sea. The house of worship resem-
bled a city hotel; white walls with green
window blinds, a long row of trees growing
in front—beautiful trees with hanging fo-
liage like the pine but much finer.
	The natives who accompanied us dressed
themselves very neatly to go on shore. The
Queen of Tubuai wore a bonnet made on
her own island, from the stalk of the arrow
root, trimming of the same. It looked
nice enough for any queen to wear. She
had fine kid shoes in her chest, but would
not wear them as she was certain they would
make her walk clumsily. Her dress fell
below her feet, and she walked very majes-
tically from the landing into the village.
	No place appeared thoroughly clean ex-
cept the "Fare bare ra," (house of prayer.)
A stone pavement was laid on all sides of
that and great pains taken to keep all clean
about it. The work inside displayed taste
and ingenuity, seats made in the form of
sofas, covered with carved work.
	The English church at first refused to let
their house of worship to preach in, but the
King interposed and it was obtained. Bro.
Pratt preached the first Mormon sermon
there. Some were pleased, others looked
demure. After the service a consultation
was held to decide whether "Parita" should
remain. Spirited speeches were made on
both sides. The speech of one old chief who
had been baptized in the morning made us
laugh. He wanted new talk, was tired of
the old which had become like old food, not
good, smelt bad. "Parita" must stay and
teach the new words. The Tubuains said he
should not stay where he was not wanted;
so said all the white men. But it was vo-
ted that he should remain. He commended
his family to the care of the faithful ones
who had accompanied us, and said that God
should bless them. They shed a profusion
of tears and promised that we should want
for nothing they could provide; which
promise was faithfully kept.
	We sailed with them, the following day,
for Tubuai.
	Beaver,					L. B. P.


HOW TO PUT CHILDREN TO BED.

	NOT with reproof for any of that day's
sins of omission or commission. Take any
time but bed-time for that. If you ever
heard a little creature sighing or sobbing in
its sleep, you could never do this. Seal
their closing eyelids with a kiss and a bless-
ing. The time will come when, all too soon,
they will lay their heads upon their pillows
lacking both. Let them then, at least, have
this sweet memory of a happy childhood,
of which no future sorrow or trouble can rob
them. Give them their rosy youth. Nor
need this involve wild license. The judi-
cious parent will not so mistake my mean-
ing. If you have ever met the man, or the
woman, whose eyes have suddenly filled
when a little child has crept trustingly to its
mother's breast, you may have seen one in
whose childhood's home "Dignity" and "Se-
verity" stood where love and pity should
have been. Too much indulgence has ruined
thousands of children; too much love, not
one.—FANNY FERN.


﻿IT is estimated that the projected tunnel
beneath the English channel could be dri-
ven and completely fitted up in five or six
years, and at a cost of from $40,000,000 to
$50,000,000.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHY, AH! WHY.

     BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	We know that modern society looks down
upon us; we are fully aware that they con-
sider us outcasts from their limits; women
destitute of morality and virtue, and totally
ignorant on all subjects connected with re-
finement of feeling and delicacy of senti-
ment; and why? Simply because they do
not understand us. How can they fathom
the abyss of our hearts? How read our
history, or rightly interpret our motives or
our actions?
	It is not my intention at the present time
to enter into details, or undertake to sub-
stantiate Polygamy, (however capable I may
consider myself of doing so,) it would occu-
py too much space in these columns; but my
idea is, to show that it is pure, virtuous and
holy women that sustain Polygamy. Wo-
men entitled to all the respect due them
as wives, mothers, sisters and friends;
brave, true-hearted and much-enduring.
Not in any sense of the word similar to the
class referred to by the writer who does us
such great honor, (in his opinion,) when he
says, “Polygamy makes comparatively re-
spectable women, of girls who might other-
wise have been prostitutes.” The reason
why he thinks that is because he don’t
know anything about it; if he did he would
know that such girls “as might otherwise
have been prostitutes,” would not live in
Polygamy, if by any mischance or inapti-
tude of places they should ever get into it,
they would very soon tire of it, and eventu-
ally, heedless of all promises, covenants or
ceremonies, free themselves, as many have
done; not because they were starved or mis-
treated, but because they did not possess
goodness, purity, integrity and principle
enough to endure unto the end.
	I cannot bear to hear those women, who
have in all purity of heart and soul, helped
to establish this holy order, instituted by
divine revelation, spoken reproachfully of,
without lifting my voice to attest to their
truthfulness, earnest sincerity and virtue.
And I feel myself justified in saying, no
woman who is not innately pure and strictly
virtuous and moral, will live in Polygamy
any length of time.
	Who were the women who first stepped
forth to herald in this unpopular, “unchris-
tianized and uncivilized principle, this
species of barbarism?” (so called.) They
were most of them daughters of the Puri-
tans, girls born, reared and educated in
New England; brought up to look with hor-
ror upon any breach of decorum or propri-
ety; girls possessed of natural intelligence
and educational attainments sufficient to
qualify them for “polite society” in common
parlance. Think you with their unsullied
reputation, their unblemished lives, their
purity of training, they were not each one
of them, individually and identically a
heroine? And if their names are not writ-
ten in history and transmitted to posterity,
they ought to be engraven imperishably in
the memory of every Latter-day Saint.
	They stood forth as it were alone, fearless
for the truth, none to defend or acknowl-
edge them. They laid all upon the altar
of their faith, gave all to their religion.
They were despised, evil spoken of, and
sneered at on every hand. Think you they
would do this from impure and ignoble
motives? and yet quite self-helpful, self-
denying, with no sweet incense of flattery
or admiration, no happy despotism of love,
only the safe shadow, the plain, straight,
level road of duty, and a consciousness of
[next column]
right; the constant cutting down and root-
ing up, of all those vain and selfish longings,
which grow sooner or later into bitterness
and disappointment; with only the compan-
ionship of sweet and noble thoughts of high
and holy tendencies, of the sublimity of
a grand culminating era in human progress,
they lived and struggled heroically on.
	Think you they could have been influ-
enced to live such lives of self-sacrifice, to
have the reproaches, slanders and cruelties,
of those they held dear and sacred, if the
Lord had not helped, guided and inspired
them by His Holy Spirit? If they had not
been praying women? And after more
than thirty years of patient endurance, hav-
ing passed through varieties of trials, ex-
posure and calumny, they are awarded this
fitting encomium of praise, "they might
otherwise have been prostitutes," and the
writer says, the Mormons claim for Polyga-
my this merit. Thank God there is another
Judge, a higher court, a Supreme Tribunal.
	I know that we are looked upon as weak-
minded and half-witted if we do not receive
a certain amount of attention from a man;
and the conclusion is immediately drawn
(by our neighbors at least) that our husbands
do not love us, and consequently, we being
unnoticed, unloved and unattended, ought
to drop out of existence.
	Is there then nothing worth living for,
but to be petted, humored and caressed, by
a man? That is all very well as far as it goes,
but that man is the only thing in existence
worth living for I fail to see. All honor and
reverence to good men; but they and their
attentions are not the only sources of hap-
piness on the earth, and need not fill up
every thought of woman. And when men
see that women can exist without their be
ing constantly at hand, that they can
learn to be self-reliant or depend upon
each other for more or less happiness, it
will perhaps take a little of the conceit out
of some of them.
	To my mind one great fault in “Wood-
hull’s Lecture” here, was, that while pro-
fessing to hold forth for Women’s Rights,
she spoke so disparageingly of the women
themselves; classing them all together as
weak, ignorant, vain and silly, slaves to
dress, to fashion and to men, making no
exception, unless, indeed, herself.
	I believe in women, especially thinking
women. Are we human beings, rational
and accountable, and yet permit to lie dor-
mant the highest faculty of our nature—
thought? Alas we see it every day! But
there is a day dawning when we will be
better understood, if not appreciated; and
every woman in Utah, who has the interest
of her sex at heart, should exert her utmost
influence to extend the circulation of the
EXPONENT;for wherever it finds its way,into
whatever home, village or town it pene-
trates there will thought be awakened,
there will woman begin to feel and under-
stand that there is something elevating
and inspiring, worth living for, worthy of
attainment, even though their husbands do
not pet them, and spend their whole time
and talents, and exhaust the whole Eng-
lish vocabulary in caressing them. And
though we may be held in ignominy and
disgrace by modern society, and its presi-
ding genius, “Mrs, Gundy,” or worse still ac-
cording to her verdict, be that poorest of all
creatures, “an unloved wife,” yet if we
live an unsullied life, if our reputation in
the sight of heaven is spotless, if we pos-
sess that best of all bosom-companions, a
clear conscience, we invest ourselves with
dignity and self-respect, and we will eventu-
ally receive all that our hearts most crave,
[next column]
most long for, and most desire, even a ful-
ness of glory. Every weakness we over-
come, every temptation we gain victory
over, brings us nearer perfection. Why, ah
why, then should we shrink from trials,
when we know they are only so many sure
steps taken towards our advancement in the
onward and upward path? Let us not fal-
ter by the wayside but, stimulating,
strengthening, encouraging and sympathiz-
ing with each other, continue to cultivate
and improve our reasoning and reflecting
faculties, not only to add to our happiness
here, but our eternal felicity hereafter.
That it may not be said of any of us, in that
day when all must give an account, that we
neglected to improve the talent committed
to our care.
	How to live, how to treat one another,
and how to trust in God in matters beyond
our mortal comprehension, these are lessons
for us to learn; our talents are given us to
improve till our Lord comes, and he or she
that neglects,—who shall say to such “Not
Guilty?"
	Salt Lake City, 1874.


FLOWERS OF THOUGHT.

	FORGIVENESS is the odor of sweet flowers
when trampled upon.

	LABOR for the other life that awaits thee,
and consider the time it must endure.

	YOU have not fulfilled every duty unless
you have fulfilled that of being pleasant.
	
	NEVER despise humble services; when
large ships run aground, little boats may
pull them off.

	GREAT power and natural gifts do not
bring privilege to the possessor so much as
they bring duties.

	BE noble, and the nobleness that lives in
other men, sleeping but never dead, will
rise in majesty to meet your own.

	If you would be pungent, be brief; for it
is with words as with sunbeams—the more
they are condensed the deeper they burn.

	THE mind has a certain vegetative pow-
er, which cannot be wholly idle. If it is
not laid out, and cultivated into a beautiful
garden, it will of itself shoot up in weeds
and flowers of a wild growth.

	NO doubt the most rational and agreeable
way of keeping up social intercourse, is to
see one's friends frequently, but in small
numbers; indeed it is an old-fashioned max-
im which directs, "for thinking, one; for
conversation, two, no more; for argument,
three; for social pleasure, five; for trouble, a
house full.

	THE cultivation of friendship should
never be neglected. It lifts us out of the
narrow sphere of "self," makes us more tol-
erant of the feelings of others, and opens a
wide field for many a good word and deed;
for what is friendship but a strong and noble
sympathy, that calls for the exercise of all
the best qualities of the human heart, and
whilst insensibly elevating our own charac-
ters, leads us to strive to add to the joys and
lessen the sorrows of others?


AMONG original wills may certainly be
reckoned that of Daniel Martinett, an offi-
cer in the East India Company's service.
Dying very poor, this singular fellow be-
queathed his debts to the Government of
Bengal, who generously accepted the
equivocal legacy. We hardly know wheth-
er to admire more the sangfroid of the tes-
tator or the bonhomme of the legatee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
       CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY. SEPT 30, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
			   LOCAL.
	Five hundred immigrants arrived in Og-
den on Wednesday the 23rd ult........Mr.
Denton has been giving a course of scien-
tific lectures on geology in this city......
Miss Mary J. Times, 17 years old, suicided
at Portage, Box Elder Co., on the 23rd ult.
.......Machinery for developing the bed of
fuel at the Crismon coal mine, Coalville, is
being fitted......A co-operative tannery is
connected with the United Order at Farm-
ington......A shoemaker pays twenty-five
dollars here for assaulting the wife of a tai-
lor......A careless man while shooting black-
birds with a shot gun, shot a little boy in
the Fourth Ward the other day, fortunately
with no very serious results.
			LITERARY.
	"Women and Work" will be the title of
a newspaper about to be started by Emily
Faithful......Two lectures designed to be
delivered before lyceums have been pre-
pared by Miss Hulda B. Loud of Rockland,
Mass.......This year there are one hundred
and twenty-five members in the freshman
class at Cornell University......New York
city has two thousand three hundred and
fifty-three school teachers, ninety-four thou-
sand scholars and expends three million
six hundred and eighty-three dollars this
year in the cause of education......Mrs. Har-
ding is collecting materials for a new novel
.......Fanny Aikin—Korthright has a new
book entitled "A little lower than the an-
gels."
			ARTISTIC.	
	At Greenbush a Philharmonic Society
has been organized.....The collection of
paintings lent to the Boston Museum of Fine
Arts, by the Duke of Montpensier, have ar-
rived in Boston.......Walton’s collection of
paintings, now on exhibition in the Burling-
ton Gallery, consists of two groups—one of
scenes in Egypt and Arabia, the other views
of Alpine scenery.....The famous collection
of pictures by the old masters, formed by
the late Mr. Alexander Barker, of Piccadilly,
was recently sold.....Great improvements
are being made in England, in the design
and artistic execution of high-class domestic
furniture......George Browning, F. R. H. S.,
lectures on art-revival in Italy.
			PERSONAL.
	Prince Leopold, youngest son of Queen
Victoria, delivered a speech in English,
French and Italian on entering the Masonic
fraternity......The Prince of Wales acts tem-
porarily as Grand Master of the Free Masons
in England, in place of the Marquis of Ripon
who resigned......Victoria C. Woodhull and
Tennie C. Claflin are said to have attracted
much attention in Paris, being regarded as
typical American ladies......Rev. Phoebe A.
Hanniford is pastor of the first Universalist
Church in Jersey City......Charles E. Court-
ney, champion oarsman of New York, will
establish a rowing school at Auburn.....Jean
Louis Hamon, the German artist, is dead.
So also is Arnold Herrman Lossow, German
sculptor.
			GENERAL.	
	Valparaiso had an earthquake lately......
Thirteen thousand cotton operatives at Bol-
ton, England, are preparing for a strike......
The usual dividends of the four leading
railroads of England have been cut down
two or three million dollars this season.....
According to an order lately given, all for-
eign priests, monks and nuns will be expelled
from Prussia......Trouble is anticipated be-
tween the whites and blacks of Jamaica.....
A severe shock of earthquake was recently
[next column]
felt at Yokahama......Bush fires have been
raging for some time in Templeton, Canada,
and much loss of property will be the re-
sult......A great inundation is announced
from Barreiros.....Incendiaries are becom-
ing troublesome at Buffalo......There are
thirty-eight acknowledged women preach-
ers in the United States......The Auburn,
New York, prison has one thousand one
hundred and eighty-four inmates at present
......The home-rule hat which has no crown
is the latest Irish fashion.....The rite of
confirmation was administered to two hun-
dred children at Albany on a recent Sunday
.......St. Louis has erected a monument in
honor of General Nathaniel Lyon......One
steamer lately took four thousand watemel-
ons into Boston......A triple eruption of
Mount Etna was lately very lively, but is
now over and the lava has ceased to flow
......Massachusetts has a law that one dozen
eggs shall weigh one pound and a half......
Silk culture along the Pacific coast is becom-
ing a fixed interest.....The flouring mills at
Sublett, Ill., were lately burned to the
ground by lightning......New York has a
female bill-poster who is said to be doing an
extensive business......Not one-fifth of the
land of Illinois, it is said, is yet under cul-
tivation......Texas has not a single Univer-
salist church......The Jews of Moldavia
and Ukraine make sugar of honey which is
said to be as white as snow.


THE HARD TIMES.

	Every body knows that the times are now
dull—duller than usual in all parts of the
country and all over the world. Stingy men
grumble, weak ones whine, short-sighted peo-
ple fret and long-tongued ones complain over
the present dull, hard times. And still, seem-
ingly, few persons, so very few that among the
masses they are scarcely noticable, are willing
to assist in creating reforms calculated to bring
forth brighter days.
	Every one must be fashionably attired, every
table must be spread with some rich danties,
every house elaborately furnished.
	To watch the course of the fashionable world,
puts one in mind of a pig which concludes to
go through a gate-way at all hazards, though
a boy stands by with a big stick, ready to strike
it as it approaches. The pig intent on the pur-
pose in view, may fail to see the danger it is in
until the first blow is dealt, whack over its
head. Then it gives a little grunt and starts
backward a few steps, but nothing daunted,
rushes forward again with more force than be-
fore and a more positive determination to have
its own way. When the second blow from the
stick in the boy's hand comes, dealt with more
vigor than the former, the pig is better pre-
pared for it, and stands his grounds firmly, only
rearing its nose upwards to utter a loud and pro-


longed squeal. Then lowering its head it push-
es forward persistently and passes the boy, being 
too ignorant to regard the fact that in so doing,
it runs away from and looses its supper.
	Notwithstanding the hints which are drop-
ped occasionly here and there, and which if
heeded might avert the ruinous results which
are staring people in the face, they rush for-
ward to evident financial destruction. There
is only here and there a woman now-a-days,
who has the courage to say "I will be consist-
ent no matter how others do or what they
think of me," and stand by these assertions.
And the young lady who is able to move in
fashionable society and dares to dress and act
in conformity with comfort, health and ease,
deserves to have the first prize awarded her at
any fair, and free passes to concerts and thea-
tres.


WHAT IS HAPPINESS.

	We each of us have our own ideas of what
would make us fully happy, and it is right and
proper that we should; for as we are not all
constituted alike, we are scarcely competent to
measure each other's capacity for enjoyment.
When we look around us and reflect that how-
ever much people may possess, however fortu-
nate they may seem, whatever comforts, luxu-
ries, and elegancies they may gather around
them, in the midst of it all there is a lack of
true happiness, we naturally enough turn our
thoughts inward, and ask our own hearts, what
is wanting for happiness.
	All persons should seek in themselves the
instinct, the faculties, and the free develop-
ment of their happiness; and even then they
should know that they will not find any more
than half of what they seek. Gratified sel-
fishness sometimes constitutes half-satisfaction,
without any real solidity, or sufficient elements
of durability; we should render ourselves capa-
ble of happiness and worthy to possess it, by
wisdom, purity of life, and appreciation of the
good and beautiful; order, industry, devoted-
ness and humility are preliminaries to happi-
ness.
	In the world there are many things which
promise the elements of happiness, even when
sapping its very foundation. The voice of flat-
tery if we listen to it can only bring disappoint-
ment, weariness and regret. The gay followers
of fashion, flitting carelessly through their
butterfly existence, willing slaves to the "gold-
en chain" which binds them, are only mo-
mentarily happy; and often there is "a cloud
upon the brow," or "a sigh in the heart," of
the fairest of them. The scholar, the sculptor,
the scientist, and the poet, though they may
achieve grand triumphs of thought and study
may be made almost supremely happy, dazzled
even for a time, by the work of heart, hand
and brain, yet are not wholly satisfied; still
striving to grasp something just beyond their
reach. Ambition, however grand and magnifi-
cent have been its conquests, still leaves its
votaries restless and unhappy. The world-
renowned Caesar, when he had fulfilled "the
vow of his boyhood," and had boasted that
even "when his chariot, should disappear from
the Capitol, his statue be riven from its sphere
and its inscription, "Caesar the Demigod;"
lost, that through all time the ambitious man,
be he statesman, general or scholar would
study his career, and emulate his victories, it
is said, bitterly exclaimed, "Has the indomita-
ble will, the fierce struggle, the unflagging
toil, the blood of five hundred battle fields, the
sack of a thousand cities, brought me but this!
It is a mockery, a dream, a fable, can this be
all!"


You who are young, intelligent and free,
what is wanting for your happiness? You are
inspired with hope, courage, faith in the future,
but are not quite sufficient unto yourselves.
You are too sensible to think that influence, or
"a little brief authority" over others, will
yield permanent happiness; what is it then
that is wanting? Is it love, the force of affection?
There is a relative happiness in it certainly,
but where is the security of love, so infinitely pre-
cious and rare in its completeness, if all around
us there is ill-restrained ardor, faithless friend-
ship and unchaste desire? There is also a hap-
piness in doing good, but then one cannot fail
to see and be stung by the frightful insufficien-
cy of the resources, and the inexhaustible mine
of suffering.
	We might thus enumerate all the elements
of which individual happiness is composed,
and should have a hundred-thousand-fold more
than enough examples and proofs to show, that
if we have not the means of attaining happi-
ness within ourselves, no amount of riches, or
worldly wisdom, no virtue or strength of our
own, no greatness of intellect or heart can con-
fer it. And yet who would find happiness in
self? Humanity is one being, there must be a
voluntary and solid bond between ourselves
and others who compose the society in which
we live; we must love our neighbors as our-
selves, must "do to others as we would wish
them to do to us," truly and not falsely. And
when we reflect how far we fall short of this,
how utterly remote we are from these vital
conditions, we can realize in some small de-
gree, the magnitude of the work we must
achieve before we can attain that happiness
which an exalted soul realizes in self-sacrifice.
	And yet there is a partial happiness within
us, without us, and beyond us; let us exercise
ourselves in the science of waiting; and since
complete happiness seems to be the full devel-
opment of a great plenitude of exalted facul-
ties, cultivate in ourselves, each and all of
these essential tendencies. Resignation for
instance, moderate aspirations, gentle and
pious wisdom, a tender patience, generous for-
bearance, christian Charity, duty with its joys
and sorrows, and as we "cannot drink the sea,
let us be content with the the drops of dew."But after all, this immortal aspiration after
happiness is one of the eternal promises of God
to humanity.
	Truth must be the standard of all happiness.
The Savior when He made His appearance up-
on the earth was clothed with the plain sim-
plicity of truth; armed with the simple yet
all sufficient power of the Gospel. He looked
at things as they were; rebuked the evils and
vices, and plainly declared to men the true
system of greatness and glory. Not only did
His teachings and life abound with facts and
principles which every child could understand,
but He also promised to those who would ac-
cept it, the Comforter, even the Spirit of truth
which it is our blessed privilege to enjoy if we
will live for it; and with the Spirit of God abid-
ing in our hearts, we may be able to so discrimi-
nate between truth and error as to eventually
be guided into all truth, and secure to ourselves
a fruition of eternal happiness.
								B. R.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


SPENCER'S LETTERS

	The fifth edition of the above standard work
has just been published at the Deseret News
Steam Printing Establishment, where it is for
sale. Bound in cloth, embossed, $1.25.
	This excellent publication, though well
known by many, should be widely circulated
among the Latter-day Saints. Showing as it


does, the most prominent doctrines of the
Church in an interesting manner, no better
book could be placed in the hands of the young;
or of any person desirous of obtaining a cor-
rect understanding concerning the principles
it advocates.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	THE DAILY Ogden "Junction" has entered
its third year. May success continue to fol-
low in its course.
	THE MEMBERS of the fire brigade had an ex-
cursion to Provo lately, and gave the people
of that city the opportunity of beholding them
in torchlight procession.
	A MONTHLY meeting of the Superintendents
and teachers of Sunday Schools will be held
during the October Conference, and it is re-
quested that each county in the Territory be
represented.
	WE THOUGHT to have given our readers
some account of the "Tooele Imbroglio," the
name now given to the contested election in
Tooele county. As the case is doubtless "to be
continued" we may refer to it again.
	BY PRIVATE letter from Cache, we learn that
sickness prevails to a great extent there, es-
pecially among the children. During the past
summer, deaths have been very numerous in
some localities in that county.
	ACCORDING TO sexton Taylor's account the
death rates for the month of September this
year are less than those of the same month in
any other year since he has held the office of
City Sexton. Better less than greater.
	THE DESERET Agricultural Society has de-
cided to hold a stock fair at the Agricultural
Park on the 20th and 21st instants. There will al-
so be races at the same place both days. This is
all we hear about a "Territorial Fair" this sea-
son.
	THE "MILLENIAL STAR" of September 8th
has this: "Information wanted. Margaret
Lee, of Christie's Buildings, Manchester, wish-
es to know the whereabouts of Alice Christie,
late of Manchester, and who emigrated to
Utah in 1861; her sister Mary Barlow is anxious
to hear from her."
	JOHN C. GRAHAM the favorite Salt Lake actor
recently returned home from England where
he has been laboring as a missionary, chiefly
at the "Millennial Star" office, Liverpool. He
is announced to play at the Theatre by request,
on Saturday evening, October 3rd. He will
doubtless be warmly greeted by a good house.
	A SELECT Party will be given by the ladies
of the Relief Society at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Friday October 2nd. The
Committee, Mesdames M. I. Horne, J. C.
Richardson, W. East, E. S. Taylor, S. H. Wil-
kinson and A. Cummings are efficient ladies
and we doubt not, will make this, the first
party of the season, a success. We wish all
who may participate a pleasant evening, and
acknowledge a complimentary.
	WORK ON the Utah Western Railroad is be-
ing manfully carried forward, and the belief is
entertained that by the 1st of November cars
will run on this line as far west as Clinton's,
from this City. The people of this Territory be-
gin to realize the benefits accruing from the in-
troduction of railroads into the country, and the
event of a railroad being designed and made in
Utah, is a source of satisfaction to all who take
an interest in her welfare and prosperity.
	SUNDAY SCHOOL Superintendent, Mr. George
Goddard, reports that after all expenses con-
nected with the Mammoth Jubilee, lately
held in the New Tabernacle, were paid, $500.00
net profit remained in the treasury of the Sun-
day School Union. It may be concluded from
this that such undertakings as the Juvenile
Jubilee are paying ones. And truly they
should be, for no system deserves encourege-
ment more than that which is for the proper ad-
vancement and development of youth.
	THE BEAVER "Enterprise" of Sept. 22nd,
has an account of a little boy four years old,
named George Lish, being lost among the hills
at North Star. It appears that his father had
dispatched him on an errand of no great dis-
tance, but as hills intervened, hiding the cabin
from his sight, the little fellow lost his way and
wandered for nearly two days and a night
among the hills. Twenty-five men were en-
gaged in the search for him, and after the
greater part of the second day had passed he was
found almost perishing with fatigue, hunger
and thirst. Be careful parents, don't send your
precious little charges on missions of too great
importance for their age or experience.
	IT SEEMS that fishing this season has become
a mania with some people in these parts; but
whether they fish for want of food or for want
of other employment is a question. The other
day two gentlemen, pleasure seekers doubtless,
in this city, were seen to stop at a little pool
made from a stream—designed for irrigating a
meadow but too low at the time—alight from
the buggy in which they rode, move noiselessly
towards the stream so not to frighten away the
fish, and carefully insert their fish-hooks in
the water. Another gentleman, one of more
experience probably than the "fishermen,"
told them as he passed along, that they would
likely stand a better chance for catching some-
thing in the next stream. They moved on
hopefully and – we didn't learn the result of
their day's exploits.
	SEVERAL SERIOUS accidents occasioned by
teams taking fright and running away have re-
cently occurred in this City. Among the most
lamentable may be chronicled an event which
took place on the 23rd ult. in which a young
man was so severely hurt that he died soon
after, a gentleman and lady were both badly
bruised, a carriage broken in pieces and the
horses badly if not fatally wounded. The
young man named Brunker, was driving the
team, the gentleman and lady, Mr. and Mrs.
Jas. Woodruff were returning home from the
burial of their infant child at the time of the
accident. One of Mrs. Woodruff's hands was
bruised so that the doctors think she will lose
one of her fingers. On the Friday following
this accident another runaway was the occa-
sion of Mrs. White—wife of Mr. White the
banker—being thrown from a carriage and very
dangerously hurt but it is believed not mor-
tally injured.


NOT ALL LOST. —A bankrupt merchant
returning home one night said to his wife:
	"My dear, I am ruined; everything we
have is in the hands of the sheriff!"
	After a few moments of silence, the wife
looked into his face and said;
	"Will the sheriff sell you?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Will the sheriff sell me?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Will the sheriff sell the children?"
	"Oh, no."
	"Then do not say we have lost every-
thing. All that is most valuable remains to
us—manhood, womanhood, childhood. We
have lost but the results of our skill and in-
dustry. We can make another fortune if
our hearts and hands are left us!"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE FAVORED SCHOLAR.
		BY JOHN ROGERS.
Oh, rash young man! to keep a school,
And think to hold your idle rule
O'er the enchantress by your side,
So graceful in her maiden pride,
So piquant in her fresh array,—
Like an incarnate Summer's day,
With hanging curls, and parted lips
And rose between her finger-tips,
And all Love's ready witchery hid
'Neath each averted, drooping lid.

Half-teased, half-pleased, he sits up there,
And holds the slate with patient air,
Showing the oft-repeated sum,
Waiting to hear the answer come,—
But she knows more—her instincts tell her,
With what a rein she holds the "feller,"—
And tho' the answer lingers now
Under her broad New England brow,
She's in no haste, ah, no! not she,
To solve the ancient mystery;
'Tis pleasant, standing by his side
In girlish fun and maiden pride,
Just conscious of her latent power,
A queen—for one brief morning hour!

The lilacs in the sultry air
May droop their purple clusters fair,
The unused ink-horn idle lie,
The rusty pen grow stiff and dry,
While, heedless of the boy below
Who boldly mocks the pretty show,
With reckless impudence of wit,
Sets comrades in a laughing fit;
Heedless of aught and all save her,
Watching to see her eyelids stir—
The master of the village school
Learns to submit to Cupid's rule!


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	About Rag Carpets.—Not long since, while cut-
ting a piece of rag carpeting to suit the rooms for
which it was designed, I was much annoyed by its
"propensity" to unravel, wasting at least an inch
at each end, which to my economical mind was not
at all pleasant. So I "set my wits to work" to
devise a better way, and have found that by stitch-
ing it on the sewing machine, on each side of and
very close to the dividing line, or where it is to be
cut off, no wastage will occur, and the edges may
then be bound with narrow binding as other car-
peting. Some ladies whom I know supply their
weavers with old yarn which is woven in at stated
lengths, according to the size of the room which
the carpet is intended for. As the yarn will not
unravel easily, it may be cut there, and hemmed or
bound, as preferred.
	Beefsteak.—A method of broiling equal in every
respect to the gridiron, excepting that it lacks the
smoky taste, is this: Set your spider on the stove,
and let it get smoking hot. Put in no butter nor
any kind of grease. Have your meat previously
prepared by trimming off all pieces of bone, gland;
superfluous suet and tissues that will bind the edge
and make it curl up. Lay it very carefully and
smoothly in the spider. It will stick fast at first,
but as soon as it is browned, can be loosened with
a knife. Sprinkle a little salt on the upper sur-
face, and turn it over. Let the other side brown
the same as the first. Have a platter warmed,
lay the meat carefully upon it, without besmearing
the edges, dress with butter and pepper, and send
it to the table hot. By this process you have as
crisp and brown a surface, with the juice retained,
as well as by broiling, and the additional advan-
tage that the inevitable drippings are saved, and
can be converted into gravy.
	Wash For Buildings.—The following is a most
excellent, cheap and durable wash for wooden fen-
ces and buildings. It owes its durability chiefly to
the white vitriol which hardens and fixes the wash:
	Take a barrel and slack one bushel of freshly
burned lime in it, by covering the lime with boil-
ing water. After it is slacked, add cold water
enough to bring it to the consistency of good white-
wash. Then dissolve in water, and add one pound
of white vitriol (sulphate of zinc) and one quart of
fine salt. To give this wash a cream color, add
one half pound of yellow ochre (in powder). To
give it a fawn look, add a pound of yellow  ochre
and one-fourth of a pound of Indian red. To make
the wash a handsome gray stone color, add one half
pound of French blue  and one-fourth pound of
Indian red; a drab will be made by adding one half
pound of burnt sienna, and one-fourth pound
Venetian red. For brick or stone, instead of one
bushel of lime, use half a bushel of lime and half
[-] bushel of hydraulic cement.
	Be careful with needles.—Many persons have
experienced years of suffering, and not a few have
lost their lives on account of carelessness with
needles. Needles are very useful articles, but are
extremely dangerous when dropped about the floors,
carpets and ruggs, or when carelessly left sticking
in unfinished work.
	About three years ago a woman, while wringing
out a cloth with which she had been wiping the
floor, broke a needle off in her hand. She suf-
fered extremely; and the piece of needle is yet in
her hand, surgical aid having failed to discover it.
A young lady sat down and inclined back against a
piece of unfinished work which she herself had
placed on the back of the chair, and broke the
needle off in her arm. The arm swelled exceed-
ingly and was very painful, but the needle could
not be extracted. A worthy citizen and personal
friend of the writer of this item, as he was about
to retire for the night, stepped on a needle which
had lodged in a rug by the bedside and broke it off
in his heel. He was compelled to undergo a sur-
gical operation in order to obtain relief from the
pain which was caused by this seemingly insignifi-
cant wound. A man in Somerville, Mass., recent-
ly, while eating chicken pie felt, as he supposed, a
small bone lodged in his throat. He applied to a 
surgeon who extracted the offensive agent, which
proved to be a rusty needle. It is supposed that
the needle was carelessly dropped into the food
which the chicken ate, and that it worked its way
into the flesh of the chicken and came near des-
troying the life of the man in question. Numer-
ous other cases might be mentioned, but these are
deemed sufficient to forcibly impress upon the minds
of the incautious the great importance of being
careful about needles.


HYGIENIC NOTES

	NEURALGIA.—Neuralgia and toothache
are sometimes speedily relieved by applying 
to the wrist a quantity of bruised or grated
horseradish.
	CHARCOAL FOR WOUNDS.—A correspon-
dent of the Scientific American says:—"The 
best simple remedy I have found for surface
wounds, such as cuts, abrasions of the skin,
&c., is charcoal. Take a live coal from the
stove, pulverize it, apply it to the wound
and cover the whole with a rag. The char-
coal absorbs the fluids secreted by the
wound, and lays the foundation of the scab;
it also prevents the rag from irritating the
flesh, and it is antiseptic.
	THUMB-SUCKING.—I have observed that
a peculiar and rather common deformity of
the chest is caused by the habit of sucking
the thumb in infancy and early childhood.
The weight of the arm on the thorax of the
child during sleep produces depression of
the ribs in the line occupied by the arm
when the thumb is placed in the mouth.
As this is a very important effect of "thumb-
sucking" never hitherto pointed out, I think
it desirable to place this thing on record for
the benefit of other observers.—Brit. Med,
Journal.
	WHOOPING COUGH.—A  writer in the
Medical Journal, London, states that in
cases of whooping cough in the last stage—


that is, after the third week—he has had
one ounce of the strongest liquid ammonia
put into a gallon of water in an open pan,
and the steam kept up by means of half a 
brick made red hot throughout, and put in-
to the boiling water containing the ammonia,
the pan being placed in the middle of a
room, into which the patients were brought,
as the ammonia steam was passing off. This
method, he says, was used in the evening,
before bed-time, and it proved so efficacious
in abating the spasmodic, attack, and after
three or four days terminating the malady,
as to establish, beyond a doubt, the value
of this mode of inhaling ammonia as a thera-
peutic agent in tranquilizing the nervous
system in the whooping cough.
	BREAKFAST BEFORE WORK.—Always
take breakfast before leaving the house in
the morning. This will prevent an easy
and early tiring, while the testimony of ob-
servant farmers of education corroborates
the teaching of the best medical minds,
that by strengthening the stomach and
sending invigorating nutriment to the
whole system, weakened by the long fast
of the night, there is generated a power of
resistence against the onsets of disease from
the cold of winter and from the malarias
and miasms of summer, especially in flat,
damp, and luxuriant soils, which can not be
adequately expressed in langauge; while
both experience and experiment have com-
bined to show that, by the simple expedient
of an early breakfast, individuals and fami-
lies and neighborhoods have exempted
themselves from that scourge of all new
countries “fever and ague," especially if
followed by a supper a little before sun-
down, from May to November.


﻿WIFE, MISTRESS AND LADY.

	Whoever marries for love takes a wife,
who marries for fortune takes a mistress,
who marries for a position takes a lady.
You are loved by your wife, regarded by
your mistress, and tolerated by your lady.
You have a wife for yourself, a mistress for
your house and friends, a lady for the world
and society. Your wife will agree with you,
your mistress will rule you, your lady will
manage you. Your wife will take care of
your household, your mistress of your house,
your lady of appearances. If you are sick,
your wife will nurse you, your mistress will
visit you, your lady will inquire after your
health. You take a walk with your wife, a
ride with your mistress, and go to a party
with your lady. Your wife will share your
grief, your mistress your money, your lady
your debts. If you are dead, your wife will
weep, your mistress lament, and your lady
wear mourning. Which will you have?


A STENTORIAN VOICE.—In the Grecian
army it was usual to have three men in each
battalion to communicate the commands of
the officers to the men—of these one car-
ried a standard, and another a trumpet. But;
in the din and confusion of battle, when
neither signal could be seen nor trumpet
heard, the third man (who for this purpose
was the strongest in the army) communica-
ted the commands by word of mouth. Ho-
mer relates of one of these men, Stentor
by name, that he shouted as loud as fifty
other men. Hence a man with a powerful
voice is said to possess the voice of Stentor;
or a Stentorian voice.


PETITIONS for Woman Suffrage, to which
were attached 300,000 signatures, have been
presented to the British Parliament.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME-CLEANING VERSUS HOUSE-
			KEEPING.

	The truest of all homes are often in
houses not especially well kept, where the
comfort and happiness of the inmates, rath-
er than the preservation of the furniture,
are first consulted. The object of home is
to be the center, the point of tenderest in-
terest, the pivot on which family life turns.
The first requisite is to make it attractive,
so attractive that none of its inmates shall
care to linger outside its limits. All legiti-
mate means should be employed to this end,
and no effort spared that can contribute to
the purpose. Many houses called homes,
kept with waxy neatness by pains-taking,
anxious women, are so oppressive in their
nicety as to exclude all home-feeling from
their spotless precincts. The very name of
home is synonymous with personal freedom
and relaxation from care. But neither of these
can be felt where such a mania for eternal
cleanliness pervades the household as to
render everything else subservient thereto.
Many housewives, if they see a speck on
floor or wall, rush at it, as if it were the
seed of pestilence which must be removed
on the instant.  Their temper depends up-
on their maintenence of perfect purity and
order. If there be any failure on their
part, or any combination of circumstances
against them, they fall into a pathetic de-
spair, and can hardly be lifted out.  They
do not see that cheerfulness is more needful
at home than all the spotlessness that ever
shone. Their disposition to wage war upon
maculateness of any sort increases until
they become slaves of the broom and dust-
pan. Neatness is one thing, and a state of
perpetual house-cleaning quite another.
	Out of this grows by degrees the feeling
that certain things and appartments are too
good for daily use. Hence, chairs and sofas
are covered, and rooms shut up, save for
special occasions, when they are permitted
to reveal their violated sacredness in a man-
ner that mars every pretense of hospitality.
Nothing should be bought which is consid-
ered too fine for the fullest domestic appro-
priation. Far better is the plainest furni-
ture on which the children can climb, than
satin and damask which must be viewed
with reverence. Where anything is re-
erved or secluded, to disguise the fact is
gxtremely difficult. A chilly air wraps it
round, and the repulsion of strangeness is
experienced by the most insensible.
	There are few persons who have not vis-
ited houses where they have been introduced
to what is known as the company parlor.
They must remember how uncomfortable
they were while sitting in it; how they
found it almost impossible to be at ease,
and mainly for the reason that their host
and hostess were not themselves at ease.
The children were watched with lynx eyes,
lest they should displace or soil some-
thing; so that the entertainment of friends
became very much like a social discipline.
They must recall, too, how sweet the fresh
air seemed out-of-doors, and how they in-
wardly vowed, on leaving that temple of
form and fidgetiness, that something more
than politeness would be required to induce
them to return.—Scribner's.


THE United States Hotel, at Saratogo, is
1,400 feet in length, or more than a quar-
ter of a mile long, covering 95,000 feet of
earth, with sleeping accommodations for
1,200 guests. The entire cost is $225,000.
Thirty thousand yards of carpet are required
to cover the floors. Almost as big as the
Palace Hotel, San Francisco.


LITTLE HARRY.

	"Those words of an Irish serving woman
were a great comfort to me," said a mother
amid her tears; it seemed more than she
could bear, the thought of laying down in
the cold and darkness of the grave, all the
beauty and sweetness of her little boy.
And the Irish woman trying in her homely
way to comfort her, said, "well, he isn't too
pretty for where he's gone." I think those
words were just what she needed. This
touching little story is a true one, the mother
a very dear friend of mine, of a nature
most impressible and tender, told it to me.
While close by, in the dim, sorrowful sun-
light, lay little Harry, with his large, open
blue eyes, that seemed like life instead of
death, with the flowers scattered over him
and the small, beautiful hands that looked
like lilies half blossomed and waiting for
the morning sunshine to come and open
them. There he lay in the small casket which
resembled a coffin as little as possible, wait-
ing too, a little while, for they were bear-
ing him from the city home whose light he
had been, whose joy he had made, to the
still country grave yard, where the grass
would build over him its low, green roof,
and the last autumn birds would sing their
sweet farewells over his slumbers.
	At last the mother rose up, went to the
coffin and kissed the sweet, cold face there
and said, "My little boy, it is the last ride
you will ever take." And only you, oh
mothers! who have so laid away the sweet
perished blossoms of your love and tender-
ness know how her heart ached as she said
these words. And then the lid was fasten-
ed down and little Harry was shut out from
our sight.
	As the words of the Irish woman found
their way to that mother's heart, in her
great anguish and desolation, so I thought 
they might find a way to some other moth-
er's heart, stricken like hers.
	"Not too pretty for where he has gone."
All the sweet looks and ways, the little cun-
ning, hindering tricks, the pearls of laugh-
ter, the fluttering hands, the pattering feet,
all gone—and in their stead a great blank
and darkness. With only those touching
witnesses, tiny shoes, baby aprons and little
embroidered dresses. But the blossom whose
beauty and fragrance brightened the home
below, will bloom fairer and larger in that
upper home where there are no frosts to
chill, no snows to cover over. Oh! the Irish
woman was right. Neither little Harry nor
your own baby, mourning mother, was too
pretty for the Heaven to which it has gone.


An editor clipped from an exchange an
obituary poem, which he sent to the compos-
ing-room with some introductory remarks.
He said: "We publish below a very touch-
ing production from the pen of Miss M——.
It was written by her at the death-bed of
her sainted mother, and it overflows with
those expressions of filial affection which
are the natural outgrowth of pure untutored
genius that has developed beneath the shel-
tering influence of a mother’s love. The
reader will observe how each line glows,
with ardent affection and tenderest regret.”
	Somehow, in attaching this introduction
to the poem, the editor turned up the wrong
side of the clipping, and the consequence
was that the editor's lines led the reader
gently into an article upon “Hog Cholera in
Tennessee.” It was rumored that the rela-
tives of Miss M——were seen prowling
around the office next day armed with shot-
guns, but this has not been traced to any re-
liable authority.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE Michigan State University, has 95
female students on the rolls.
	THE prevailing church in Iceland is the
Lutheran. They have 321 churches and 189
ministers.
	IT is estimated that $3,000,000 worth of
grain has been destroyed by grasshoppers in
Southern Missouri.
	THE local authorities of Auckland, New
Zealand, have instituted an annual tax on
bachelors of five dollars a head.
	THE English Post office carries annually
about 870,000,000 letters, 75,000,000 postal
cards, 103,000,000 book packets, and 99,000,
000 newspapers.
	BY adding a one-cent postage stamp to a
postal card you, can send the card to Brit-
tish Columbia, the Canadas, Newfoundland
or Germany.
	THE Tolodo Historical Society has been
presented with a little, completely-formed
egg, which was found inside the yolk of a
hen’s egg. It is nearly an inch long of the
usual shape, and the shell which is hard, is
formed.
	A NEW postal card is to be adopted which
will be lighter in color, probably very nearly
white. The printing and engraving will be
executed in black ink, and the border will
be narrower and much neater in appearance
The change has not been fully decided up-
on.
	THE house of A. T. Stewart & Co., with
all its immense resources and wide-spread
reputation, spends a third of a million an-
nually in constant and persistent advertis-
ing in substantial newspapers, to keep its
business up to the proper point.  The same
thing is equally true of the two next great-
est dry goods establishment in New York.
Messrs. Lord & Taylor spend annually not
less than $225,000 for advertising alone,
while the books of Arnold & Constable show
a yearly expenditure of $175,000 for the
same purpose.
	THERE are no fewer than 153 States,
great and small, reckoned as feudatories of
the Government of India, and excluding
Berar and Mysore, which are temporarily
under English administration, the total area
of the country governed by native rulers is
565,106 square miles with an estimated pop-
ulation of 48,000, 000. Including Berar and
Mysore, there is a native ruled population
of 55,000,000, paying to its chiefs a revenue
of £15,000,000 per anum, while the 184,
000,000 of people inhabiting 830,000 square
miles of territory directly under Brittish
rule contribute a revenue of £50,000,000 per
anum.


SELF EXAMINATION.—Before we betake
ourselves to rest let us review and examine
all the passages of the day, that we may
have the comfort of what we have done
right, and may redress what we have done
amiss, and make the shipwrecks of one day
as marks to direct our course in another.
This may be called the very act of virtuous 
living, and contributes wonderfully to ad-
vance our reformation and preserve our in-
nocence.—Matthew Henry


﻿WE are told that three hundred years
ago ladies combed their hair just as they do
to-day. This won't do in a civilized land
among observing people. Three hundred
years ago ladies used to comb their hair on
their heads—now they hang it over the
back of a chair and comb it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A YOUNG lady recently married in Eng-
land received a magnificent bracelet with
the word "Mizpah" in rubies, emeralds,
diamonds and sapphires.  The literal inter-
pretation is: "The Lord watch between
thee and me when we are absent on from
another."  A more fitting motto for a happy
couple commencing life cannot well be con-
ceived.
	BISMARCK recently showed some visitors
over his house, and pointing to a desk in
the Princes' room told them his wife, as
they might observe, kept the cash. He had
from the beginning entrusted her with the
chrage of his money affairs while he attend-
ed to politics, and he would advise every
married man to do the smae taking no more
than his wife gave him.
	AMONG the characteristics of woman, is
that sweet, motherly love, with which na-
ture has gifted her; it is almost indepen-
dent of cold reason, and and wholly removed
from all selfish hope of reward.  Not because
it is lovely, does a mother love her child,
but because it is a loving part of herself—
the child of her heart, a fraction of her own
nature.  Therefore does she yearn over its 
wailings; her heart beats quicker at its joy;
her blood flows most softly through her veins
when the breast at which it drinks knits
it to her.—Herder.
	AN interesting anecdote is related of a
large dog kept in Algiers by Miss Emily
Napier, daughter of Sir William Napier.
This dog was sent every morning to fetch
bread from the baker's and regularly brought
home twelve rolls in a basket.  At last it was
observed that for several mornings there
were only eleven rolls in the basket; and,
on watching the dog, he was found to stop
on his way and bestow one roll on a poor,
sick and starving lady-dog; hidden, with her
puppies, in a corner, on the road from the
shop. The baker was then instructed to
put thirteen rolls in the basket, after which
the dog delivered the twelve faithfully for
a few days, and then left all the thirteen in
the basket—the token, as it proved, that his
sick friend was convalescent, and able to
dispense with his charity.
	THE observance of the following particu-
lars seems to be essential to the intelligent
comprehension, not only of the Bible, but
any other book; First, ascertain who is the
person speaking; second, who is the person
spoken to; third, what are the circumstan-
ces under which the words were spoken,
and fourth, what was the obvious purpose
for which they were spoken or written.
All these particulars may be generally glean-
ed from a careful reading of the context.
This rule is so reasonable that it is universally
applied in reading books of men, and even
business and social correspondence; and by
the neglect of this common principle in the
reading of the Bible the gravest blunders
have been committed; and it, in the hands
of scoffers and imbeciles, has been made to
"prove everything" and to "contradict it-
self."  A gentleman of my acquaintance,
in conversation with a person who read his
Bible in this desultory way—turning and
twisting it like a kaleidoscope—remarked
that, by his interlocutor's mode of reading
the Scriptures, it could be proven from them
that he ought to commit suicide. "How so?"
was the response.  "Why," said the first,
"do you not read, 'and Judas went out and
hanged himself!' and do you not read also
'go thou and do likewise'?"


DIVERSIONS.

	A GUSHING Miss—The Mississippi.
	A COOL request—Please pass the ice.
	SOMEBODY defines flirtation to be atten-
tion without intention.
	A WOMAN'S modesty is like her color—ex-
ceedingly becoming if it is not put on.
	WHY do women talk less in February
than in any other month? Because it is the
shortest month in the year.
	"MISS C—," said a gentleman one eve-
ning, "why are ladies so fond of officers?"
"How stupid," replied Miss C—; "it is not
natural and proper that a lady should like a
good offer, sir?"
	TRAVELER (registering)—John Smith and
lady. Hotel clerk—"All right, sir; put you
in 114, the lady in 94." Traveler—"But
the lady is my wife, sir." Clerk—"Then
why didn't you say so?"
	AN old veteran was relating his exploits
to a crowd of boys, and mentioned having
been in five engagements. "That's noth-
ing," broke in a little fellow, "my sister
Agnes has been engaged eleven times!"
	A YOUNG blacksmith wrote his advertise-
ment, stating that all orders in his business
would be promptly executed; but it came
out, "All others in this business will be
promptly executed." On seeing this fear-
ful notice, an old blacksmith threw up his
hands and exclaimed: "Has it come to this,
after thirty years of honest toil!"
	AT an exhibition of amateur theatricals,
when the Richard III. of the evening cried,
"A horse! a horse! My kingdom for a
horse!" a would-be wag called out, "Wouldn't
a jackass do just as well?" "Certainly," re-
sponded the actor; "please step up here im-
mediately." The interrupter hastily re-
tired.
	WHEN the train draws up at Stamford
five minutes for refreshments, it is easy to
distinguish the experienced traveler from
the rest. He has already got out on the plat-
form, and is either on the bottom step or
close enough to it. Just as soon as the
speed of the train becomes less than he can
make he springs off and dashes madly for
the saloon door, through it and up to the
counter, giving his order for coffee while
moving, and snatching up the right article
the first time. He knows just how much
time is required to make five minutes, and
when it is expired he is out on the platform
picking his teeth and talking about real es-
tate. Alas, for the inexperienced traveler
such is not his record. He is inside the car
when it stops, with twenty persons ahead of
him. He jumps down on the platform in
time to see the mass surging into the door
and just then it suddenly strikes him that
he may be too late and under this inspira-
tion he throws himself into the struggling
gang. He doesn't reach the table. He and
the other inexperienced travelers form the
outside line, and shout their orders through
the openings and receive what is handed
them with thankfulness and what dexterity
they can muster. Such a man will perspire,
and choke, and paw and jaw during the en-
tire five minutes, and in that time may get
down two-thirds of a sandwich, one-third of
a piece of custard pie, and more or less of
the coffee, and then get out of the door just
in time to catch hold of the car-rail, and be
pulled on by the brakeman. And when he
has reached his seat and is scraping the rest
of that pie from his boot, and drawing cold
air into his throat to allay the pain of the
scald, he will think up things about the
keeper of that restaurant that would make
the hair on a saw-horse stand on end.—Dan-
bury News.


A LITTLE girl said of her ill-tempered
uncle: "he hasn't got a single laugh in his
face."


H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
storey Brick Store;
First South St., 1/2 block west of co-op. Corner.
H. Wallace
Has the best, large t and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
DOCTOR CROCKWELL
Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyou ones and prevents their untimely ad-
vent. 
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
	Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.
CLUB RATES.
Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
Exponent and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies: 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club.								$18.00
10 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club,	-	-	-	-	- 				20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50							34.00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, han-
	somley framed, selling price $4	-	- 	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
ponent favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


﻿Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 3.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1874			No. 10﻿


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A KINDERGARTEN is about opening in
Kalamazoo, Michigan. With all the little
“treasures” she owns, our territory might
open several such schools with profit.
	AN EASTERN paper observes that six
ladies had the courage to go up in a balloon,
with Prof. Wise at Philadelphia.  Most
women consider themselves safe when in
the company of a “Wise” man.
	MICHIGAN PAPERS speak in high terms
of praise of the abilities of Miss Marion L.
Guild of the Grand Rapids “Post.” Thus
it is notwithstanding the loud cries that are
made about woman’s stepping out of her
sphere when she attempts to fill any posi-
tion of more importance than that of dish-
washer or chambermaid, she still wins her
way throughout the country, seeking and
gaining favor when she learns to respect
herself; and where she is best known her
efforts and abilities are best appreciated.
	WE CLIP from an exchange the following
in regard to the new postal law that goes
into effect on and after the 1st of next Jan-
uary.  Time will prove whether it is any
improvement on the old system.
	"The last Congress passed a bill making
it incumbent upon the publishers of news-
papers to prepay postage on papers sent to 
subscribers, which, together with the post-
age upon exchanges, amounts to an effectual
embargo upon the press, and will prove a
serious obstacle to the general diffusion of
knowledge by the one most useful, and
economical means—the public journals of the
country. The tendency of the age seems
to be in the direction of enlightenment—
free schools, high education by State insti-
tutions, a free Press, etc., and yet the rep-
resentatives of the people are so stupid or
conservative as to take a retrograde step in
the direction of the best and most efficient
educator of the masses—i. e., the nation's
newspapers. The recent action of a British
colony in an opposite direction gives room
for unfavorable comment, which is, and
will be taken advantage of.  We have, for
years, claimed to lead the van, in all pro-
gressive measures, and would scout the idea
of yielding to any other nation superior lib-
erality; but a change must come soon, or we
will find ourselves distanced greatly. Speak-
ing of our former boasts and present facts,
an exchange aptly remarks:	‘But it is
very singular that while the United States
has been passing a law which imposes an
additional tax of two and a half million of
dollars on the newspaper circulation of the
country, the Legislature of the largest and
most important of Australian colonies has
adopted a regulation allowing newspapers to
go, without any charge at all, through the
mails. It seems a little strange to the for-
eigner up a tree, that this great, enlighten-
ed, progressive nation should levy a tax of
two million dollars upon the means of dis-
seminating intelligence while the Islands of
the Pacific are removing all restraints here-
tofore placed upon the press. There is
something wrong somewhere—where is
it?


﻿PATERNAL acres—The old man’s corns.


FROM OCEAN TO OCEAN.

	Under the above heading, Dora Darmoore
publishes an interesting descriptive sketch,
of her overland journey, from which we
give the following passages, attributing any
errors that occur to imperfect information
gathered during a hasty visit:
	"As soon as we were fairly within the
bounds of Utah Territory, the signs of a
prosperous and industrious people were seen
on all sides. Smiling meadows, fields from
which the golden grain had been lately cut,
orchards bending beneath their burden of
fruit; neat, and often costly farmhouses,
reared their roofs amid the luxuriant
foliage surrounding them, and it seemed al-
most incredible that less than a quarter of
a century ago all this fertile and charming
landscape was a bare and desolate plain.
Truly has the desert been made to "blosom
like the rose," and too much credit connot
be given to the brave and determined people
who have been the pioneers in this great
work, even though they are fired by re-
ligious fanaticism.
	Upon reaching Ogden, we changed cars
for
		SALT LAKE CITY,
Which lies thirty six miles south. The sun
was near the horizon, and its last beams fell
like a shower of crimson and gold over the
Great Salt Lake, which lay at our right,
with its lofty, mountainous islands, and its
rocky promontories rising like huge masses
of amethyst from the glimmering waves at
their feet. Never, except in Colorado,
have I witnessed such gorgeous sunsets as
those I saw in Utah Territory. No artist
can ever hope to transfer to canvass any-
thing but a sorry imitation of such wonder-
ful coloring.
	Night had closed in before we reached
the "City of the Saints," and as we rolled
through the quiet streets towards our des-
tination, the Walker House, we were struck
with the perfect repose and orderly appear-
ance of the town. No loafers were loung-
ing about, no noise; everything was like a
New England Sabbath evening. The fol-
lowing morning we were up betimes and
on the alert for the novel experience that a
sojourn among the Mormons might bring.
	First, for a stroll through the broad,
shady streets. Every house has its large
and well kept grounds, and everywhere
were an abundance of trees, mostly fruit
trees, thus combining utility with beauty.
Over the doors of many of the business
houses were conspicuously displayed the
significant letters "Z. C. M. I." as well as
on bulletin boards, and at the begining and
ending of advertisements, usually preceded
by the legend "Holiness to the Lord," en-
circling the All-seeing eye. Where these
characters are seen over a place of business
it indicates that the proprietor is a good and
faithful saint, and pays his tiths with prom-
titude into the coffers of the church. Of
course in our rambles about this modern
Eden, we kept a sharp lookout for the
"muchly" married citizens, as well as their
better—what shall I say—certainly not
halves, possibly fourths, eights or even 
sixteenths. Well, as I said, we kept a sharp
lookout for those fraction[-]d portions of the
Mormon households, and though it is very
rare indeed to see a Mormon woman on the
street, unless she has special business there,
we were fortunate enough in the course of
the morning, to be thrown into the society
of several.*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Driving in a carriage about the city, our
first visit was to the Tabernacle, an immence
building, capable of seating fifteen thou-
sand people. It is unsupported by pillar or
column, and its whole great dome forms a
perfect arch. Back of the chair where
Brigham sits rises the great organ, the larg-
est in America, with the single exception
of the celebrated one in Boston. It was not
yet finished, though the designer had been
at work on it for four years. Adjacent to
the Tabernacle, workmen were busy on the
new Temple which is being made of a white
stone, found in the adjacent mountains. We
were shown the design, and if fate ever
wills it to be finished, it will be one of the
finest works of art in America. The Mor-
mons have learned to depend upon them-
selves, and should any fortune sever them
from the rest of mankind, they are quite
able to live independent of them.
	I visited the Deseret News office, the
Mormon organ, and was received very
courteously by its editor, G. Q. Cannon, Esq.
He is a very zealous and efficient expounder
of the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints, and
one cannot but believe while listening to
his recital of the early trials and troubles of
these saints, and his expressions of belief
that they were led by the Almighty, that,
if an enthusiast, he is at least an honest
one. He showed us some fine specimens
of paper made by themselves, and also in-
formed us they manufactured all their own
type. Can one doubt the ultimate success
in a pecuniary point of view of a people
who have literally no imports, and a con-
stantly increasing supply of exports? (It
should be so. ED. W. E.) Nature has ap-
parently kept her best gifts in store for this
people, who have had the sense and the
boldness to fathom her secrets. Natural
springs of cold, warm and medicinal waters
are constantly being developed, and on each
side of the broad, finely graded streets, a
clear, sparkling stream of living water goes
dancing over the pebbles at the bottom. No
muddy, foul and loathsome ditches here; but
everywhere cleanliness is the order of the
day.
	Nowhere, even in New England itself,
is the Sabbath so rigorously observed as in
this city. The municipal authorities being
exclusively Mormons, have everything their
own way. No beer saloon, no cigar store,
and even no barber shop is allowed to be
open on that day. So the unfortunate who
has failed to lay in a supply of lager or Ha-
vannas, or to attend to his tonsorial duties
on Saturday night, must fain go unshaven,
thirsty and smokeless, till Monday morning
relaxes the rigor of the Mormon law enfor-
cers.
	After two days spent in this delightful
city, we were again forced to proceed on
our journey toward the setting sun, and I
must express my astonishment at finding
here in this far-away place, hotel accommo-
dations rivaling those in Chicago or New
York."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
A REFORMED HUSBAND.
	TO HIS WIFE.
Come darling put your sewing by,
	And chat with me awhile.
I want to hear the glad, free tone,
	And see the old sweet smile:
The tone in which you spoke to me,
	The smile you used to wear
When we were courting on the Ranch
	When love was young and fair.
If then we loved each other well,
	As little as we knew
Of all the wrangling, jangling things
	That throng life's pathway through—
If then we loved and trusted well,
	Just starting on our way,
When near a dozen years have passed,
	How should it be to-day?
We never got discouraged then,
	And harsh words never came;
But since that time we neither one
	Have always been the same:
We never got too tired then,
	To walk and take delight,
After a hard day's work was done—
	How would it seem to-night?
Let's be again the lovers true
	We were before we wed;
Nor think so much of "getting on,"
	So we have clothes and bread:
For supper and for breakfast too,
	Hot meals let us discard;
I'd rather eat but once a day
	Than have you work so hard
I think that if we courted still
	Just as we used to do
Our children would be healthier,
	And better natured too.
Our home would be as cheery bright,
	And we should be again
As happy in each others love,
	And blest as we were then.
Now when the men have left their work,
	And quit the field and shop,
And I come in to read or rest,
	It's time for you to stop:
So let's put this machine aside,
	And cease its tedious hum:
The moon is bright, the air is mild—
	Then come, my darling, come.
								LULU.


AN ADDRESS.
To the Richmond Retrenchment Association.
	How natural to human beings, are thoughts
of self, how prone we are to care for our own
comforts heedless of the welfare of others.
If fortune smiles on us we forget that there
are those who are less fortunate, or who may
need our assistance. Our own enjoyment is
all the world to us; and yet there is not hap-
piness in all this self provision. Much calls
for more, and contentment does not linger
in the heart of averice. But courted or al-
lowed to remain, it takes possession of us
body and soul. And thus we go on grasping
for all within reach, often, perhaps, for that
which would do us no good, determined to
possess it even if it would be an incumbrance
to us, rather than see it enjoyed by another.
If a choice bit of lace or velvet or a nice
dress pattern is brought to some one of a
family, how apt is the young lady to say,
"give it to me. I need it and it suits me
better than my sister." And should
the coveted prize be gained, the thought
never enters her mind that doubtless some
of the rest wished for it quite as much as
herself only they were too good and self-
denying to take it from her. How admira-
ble seems generosity when we notice it in
our friends, especially if a favor has been
done us. But do we ever think to be gen-
erous in return?
	It is an easy matter to persuade ourselves
that people do very little for our benefit,
and to indulge the thought "Why should
we trouble to accomodate them?" Some-
times we pity some one and tell how much


they are in need of help, and if it were not
for some trifling reason we could render as-
sistance, trying to excuse ourselves for neg-
lect of duty. Thus our actitons are a great
deal like the letter p; first in pity but last in
help.
	We are all children of the same wise Pa-
rent, and is it not the duty of every individ-
ual to assist others? It is the only  true way
to gain friends or happiness.
	We are not, or should not be, living
merely to gratify our selfish whims, but to
spread peace and love wherever we are. We
should never forget to do this, and especially
to comfort the sick and weary, that they, at
least, may testify that God has not created
us in vain. If we banish all selfish and evil
thoughts from heart and mind, and seek to
promote the prosperity of our brothers and
sisters on earth, God will reward us in hea-
ven. 				MARY STUART.
	RICHMOND, Sept. 27th 1874.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.
					For the EXPONENT.
	 EXTINCTION OF RACES.
	Among the more recent results of scien-
tific investigation, are the unmistakable evi-
dences of the existence of men upon this
Continent from the most remote ages, and
of the presence of large settled popula-
tions in distant and also in comparatively
recent times. They were the "occupants of
the then fertile but now arid plains of the
Colorado;" of "islands that existed along
the Pacific coast," long before the elevation
of the coast itself by which the sea was
shut out and California made habitable;
when the valleys of the Sacramento and
San Joaquin were drained of the waters of
the ocean, large populations came in and
"took possession of the land, leaving their
remains with those of animals long since ex-
tinct." Scientific research proves, in fact,
that "the man of the Florida coral period
existed long anterior to the Pharoahs, prob-
ably long before the land they ruled over
existed." The question asked cannot be
answered so as to satisfy the requirements
of science:  "Where did the ancient races
of America come from; and where are they
gone?" With the discoveries made, comes
the unwelcome inference that in the exter-
mination of these primal races there is a
foreshadowing of the ultimate extinction of
the white races now in possession of the
land. In an essay, read recently before the
National Teacher's Association, it was shown
that "no race of human kind has yet ob-
tained a permanent foothold upon this Con-
tinent;" and the melancholy concessions
were that "unless some steps were taken to
avert the evil," we, the proud, enduring,
hitherto permanent occupants of this planet
are doomed, as a race, to an "untimely ex-
termination."
	It will be interesting to note the methods
that will be resorted to to avert this. Per-
haps it will be well to ascertain the causes
that gave rise to the extermination of the
races that once inhabited this Continent.
It may be possible that other than "climatic
influences" were operating then, by a "law"
that is not yet recognized. In the mean
time, we may read that which is a key to
these perturbations which exist in bosoms
that dread conditions that are inevitable:
"Wherefore I will consecrate this land (Amer-
ica) unto thy seed and they who shall be
numbered among thy seed, forever, for the
land of their inheritance. For, it is a choice
land, saith God unto me, above all other
lands; wherefore I will have all men that


dwell thereon, that they shall worship me,
saith God!"—Book of Mormon.

	FAT IN FORAGE PLANTS.—Notice is tak-
en by scientific journals of the discoveries
of the German chemist, Konig, who found
that by treatment with strong alcohol the
fat of grass, clover and hay could be sepa-
rated into two parts—one a solid waxy sub-
stance, the other a fluid fat, soluble in alco-
hol. By other chemists it has also been es-
tablished that even as much as ten per cent
of the dry weight of cereals is fat and wax;
early meadow grass, six and a half per cent
of fat. This is worthy of notice for exposure
to atmospheric change such as occur when
fodder is left uncovered, would cause de-
composition of these fatty matters and thus
make them worthless as food.


For the EXPONENT.
A WOUNDED SPIRIT WHO CAN BEAR.

	In reflecting upon the wrongs which
woman is subjected to in the world, and the
evils now existing in consequence of her not
being allowed the choice of a husband in
aocordance with her affections, I have
thought, how appropriate for the considera-
tion of man in these days is the sweet ap-
peal of the poetess, Mrs Felitia D, Hemans:

	"Oh! cast thou not
	Affection from thee in this bitter world,
	Hold to thy heart that only treasure fast;
	Watch, guard it, suffer not a breath to dim
	That bright gem purity."
								EXCELEITE.


For the EXPONENT.
BEWARE OF ACCUSING CHILDREN.

	Under this heading perhaps a few words
may not be deemed inappropriate. Years
and experience have given the writer op-
portunity to observe the influence prevail-
ing over children, that more or less help to
mold their characters for the future; influ-
ence very much to be deprecated and most
heartily to be condemned; as often the re-
sults are lamentable.
	Living in a fast age, comparatively, very
little consideration, is given to these things,
with all the boasted knowledge of modern
times. Children are expected to know
more, which, in fact, they do at a very ten-
der age, than in former days; children were
children then, until really old enough to
have some strength of mind and under-
standing; parents were more cautious, in
respect to conversation in their hearing,
which now seems almost totally done away
with. Careless habits have gained ground;
for as the world stands, no great or good
things are advanced without more or less
evil to bring up the rear; which often proves
almost an overbalance of power, counter-
acting, in a great degree, the good attained.
Thus it is only by the most strenuous efforts
and the exercise of exceeding watchfulness
and care, on the part of those engaged in
God's vineyard—to uproot and drive forth
the little evils, which like the moth, silent-
ly, ceaslessly and most certainly work sor-
row and woe—that anything can be done.
Among the minor evils, one that carries
great sway with the generality of people
and families, is that of hasty accusation:
Children are often corrected in anger and
haste; more often than in calmness, or with
due deliberation. Because a certain piece
of mischief is done, some child did it;
and perhaps the child, perfectly innocent of
the mischief said to be his or her doing, is
punished severely for it no mattter how
much he or she may say and protest


against it. Such proceedings have a very
bad influence, causing children to doubt their
parents' goodness; they think, "neither
father nor mother knows as much as I
thought they did;" and therefore they do
not care much for what father or mother
may say. They know something themselves,
and prefer, as a natural consequence, their
own way to that of parents or guardians.
It also begets a habit of lying; for when
children see that, do what they will, they
are doubted and disbelieved; they become
careless as to what they say, and are led, by
and bye, into wickedness.
	Beware of falsely accusing little children.
The tender minds and opening understand-
ings feebly grasp, little by little, the good
placed before them; while evil reigns pre-
dominant, ever present in word and action,
indoors and outdoors. Especially where
children are allowed to ramble about in the
streets, too much care can not be exercised
in respect to the company they keep; for vul-
garity seems almost to be the rule, and good
decent language the exception commonly,
which is an evil and a very great one; one
which among little children, brings ill
thoughts and wrong topics of conversation
where there should be only innocence and
sweetness.
	What children need to know can be taught
them gradually, as they are growing in years;
and they can be trained to right thoughts
and feelings by placing matters before them
in a right light; giving a higher tone and
most noble and grand ideas of what life
should be; lifting them up from the low,
grovelling and debasing tendencies of hu-
man nature.
	There exists among children such a vari-
ety of temperaments to be dealt with, that
it requires the utmost wisdom and tact,
gentleness and firmness combined, to in-
sure success in implanting the right instead
of the wrong. But habits and impressions
obtained through childhoods years, often
remain through life and are never forgotten;
giving a coloring to mind and manner which
no future circumstances or training can
change.					A. B. C.
	BEAVER, Sept. 3rd, 1874.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BEHAVIOR OF FEMALES IN COMPANY.
	One of the chief beauties in a female
character is modest reserve; that retiring
delicacy which avoids the public eye, and
is even disconcerted at the gaze of admira
tion. When a girl ceases to blush she has
lost the most powerful charm of beauty.
The extreme sensibility which it indicates
may be considered as a weakness and en-
cumbrance to the other sex, but in females
is peculiarly engaging, as blushing is so far
from being necessarily attendant with guilt,
that it is the usual company of innocence.
That modesty which is so essential to the
sex, will naturally dispose them to be rather
silent in company, especially in a large one;
people of sense and discernment will never
take such silence for dulness. A person
may take a share in conversation without
uttering a sylable—the expression of the 
countenance shows it, and this never es-
capes an observing eye. Converse with
men with that dignified modesty which
may prevent the approach of the most dig-
nified familiarity, and consequently pre-
vent them feeling themselves your superi-
ors. 
	Wit is the most dangerous talent which
a female can possess. It must be guarded
with great discretion and good nature,
otherwise it will create many enemies. Wit
is perfectly consistent with softness and
delicacy, yet they are seldom found united.
Wit is so flattering to vanity, that they who 
possess it become intoxicated and lose all
self-command. Humor is a different qual-
ity. It will make your company much so-
licited—but be cautious how you indulge it; 
it is often a great enemy to delicacy, and a
still greater one to dignity of character.
It may sometimes gain you applause, but it 
will never procure respect. 
	Beware of detractions especially where 
your own sex is concerned. You are gener-
ally charged with being particularly addict-
ed to this vice, perhaps unjustly; men are 
fully as guilty of it when their interest in-
terferes. But as your interests frequently 
clash, and as your feelings are quicker, your 
temptations to it are more frequent. For 
this reason be particularly careful of the
reputation of your own sex. 
	Consider every species of indelicacy in
conversation as shameful in itself, and
highly disgusting to modest men, as well as
to you. The dissoluteness of some men's
education may allow them to be diverted
with a kind of wit, which yet they have
delicacy enough to be shocked at when it
comes from the mouth of a female. Chris-
tian purity is of that delicate nature that is 
cannot even hear certain things without
contamination. It is always in the power 
of woman to avoid these; no man but a brute
or a fool will insult a woman with conversa-
tion which he sees gives her pain; nor will
he dare to do it if she resent the injury 
with becoming spirit. There is a dignity 
in conscious virtue which is able to awe the 
most shameless and abandoned men. You
will be reproached, perhaps, with an affec-
tation of delicacy; but, at any rate, it is 
better to run the risk of being thought
ridiculous than disgusting. The men will 
complain of your reserve; they will assure
you that a frank behavior would make you
more amiable; but they are not sincere when 
they tell you so. It might on some occa-
sions render you more agreeable as com-
panions; but it would make you less amiable 
as women, an important distinction of which 
many of the sex are not aware. 
	There is a certain gentleness of spirit and
manners extremely engaging in young wo-
men; not that discriminate attention, that 
unmeaning simper which smiles on all alike.
This arises from an affection of softness or 
perfect insipidity. We wish them to pos-
sess the most perfect simplicity of heart 
and manners. They may possess dignity 
without pride; affability without meaness;
and simple elegance without affectation.
Milton had the same idea when he said of 
Eve: 
	"Grace was in all her steps, heaven in her eye,
	In every gesture dignity and love."


THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
	The United States Centennial Commis-
sion announces its readiness to receive ap-
plications for space in the International Ex-
hibition of 1876, at Philadelphia. It is im-
portant that it should be known with the 
least possible delay what space will be re-
quired in each of the departments of the Ex-
hibition by American exhibitors, in order
that it may be determined what room can
be assigned to foreign nations.


"AND so they go;" one of the Portland
school committee is reported to have said;
"Our great men are fast departing—first
Greeley, then Chase, and now Sumner—
and I dont feel very well, myself."


WOMAN'S RECORD.
	THE Princess Bismarck, now past sixty,
superintends her farm work.
	THERE are at present fifty-nine ladies in
the different departments of Boston Uni-
versity. 
	MRS. Dumway has the honor of a repor-
ter's desk in both Houses of the Oregon
Legislature. 
	ROSA Bonheur is fifty-two years of age,
unmarried, and lives happily with a sister
and several brothers.
	MADAME Bazaine is represented to be of
low stature, very dark, and with regular
features. She is about 30 years old.
	A JAPANESE girl, who came to America
three years ago, recently bore off four of the
highest prizes at a Washington seminary.
	MRS. Stonewall Jackson resides at Char-
lotte, N. C. She is quite young—not above
30—of medium height, and very attrac-
tive. 
	MISS Vinnie Ream, of Washington, D.
C., possesses in clay, the only bust ever
made of Gov. Richard Yates, of Illinois,
and hopes to receive a commission to put it
in marble for $1000.
	MRS. Edmund Fletcher, who sued the
city of Chelsea, Mass., the other day, claim-
ing $10,000 damages for injuries received
through the bad condition of a street, re-
ceived $2500.
	MRS. Hayard, of Rhode Island, who is
known in the art world as a distinguished
sculptress, has a number of her works on
exhibition in Paris, where they are attract-
ing attention and favorable comment.
	THE Empress Augusta has called a meet-
ing of all the delegates from all the women's
associations of Germany to be held at Ber-
lin in October. The Queens of Wurtemburg
and Saxony, Grand Duchess of Baden and
Princess Alice of Hesse have promised to
attend.
	THE Baroness Mathilde Rothschild, sec-
ond daughter of the deceased, the wife of
Baron Wilhelm Von Rothschild, of Frank-
fort, renowned for his piety, benevolence
and Talmudical lore, is an ardent friend of
music, and a composer of considerable suc-
cess.
	MRS. Mary C. Wilber, widow of the first
President of the Cincinnati Female College,
was honored by receiving the degree of A.
M. from that Institution, at its recent Com-
mencement. Mrs. Wilber is one of the
Board of Instruction in the college. 
	MISS Gilbert, a blind lady, opened a
blind school in a Holborn cellar in London,
for which she paid eighteen pence per week.
She has now one thousand pupils, whom she
has taught to support themselves. They
maintain the Institution, which gives them
a home, an education and an occupation.
	CHANCELLOR Winchell, of the Syracuse
University, says he had "no knowledge of
the ruin of female constitutions by proper
collegiate work, while women are generally
more punctual in their scholastic duties
than young men. It is also a matter of
observation that there is no branch of learn-
ing so exacting upon memory, judgment,
or powers of abstraction, that there are not
women worthy to be competitors of the
strongest men."


CONTENTMENT makes one happy and rich
as the greatest king.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Pub[-]ished semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. OCT. 13, 1874.


SPLINTERS. 
			LOCAL
	The retail Produce Department of the
Z. C. M. I. has been purchased by Mr. S.
W. Sears......The Royal Marionettes have
been performing at the Theatre......Lord
Claud John Hamilton, M. P. and present
viceroy of Ireland, lately visited our city
......A little daughter of Mr. David Day,
was kicked by a horse recently, her right
eye destroyed and a portion of the frontal
bone broken off and driven into the head;
but the doctors say she will recover. 
			PERSONAL.
The Empress of Russia will soon visit
her daughter the Duchess of Edinburgh, in
England......Miss Kellogg refuses to give
ten nights of English opera in California
for $20,000 and expenses......Mrs. Kate N.
Doggett, who visited this city some three
years since, is now editor of the "Hospital
Bazar" of Chicago......Anna Dickinson will
go abroad when she has finished a book she
is now writing......Helen Marble who lately
gave a musical entertainment in California
is spoken of as "the impersonation of grace,
with a most powerful yet sweet and flexible
voice......Mrs. Walter Lacy who recently 
died in London, was the original Julia in
"The Hunchback"......Knappeler's medall-
ion bust of Aga[-]siz is the best likeness ex-
tant of the great naturalist......John B.
Gough has a collection of Cruikshank's pic-
tures, numbering over two thousand.
			FOREIGN.
	There are thirty-five old Catholic congre-
gations in the Jura, Switzerland......The
Bank of England is reported to be about to
advance its rate of interest......Ten thou-
sand Spanish soldiers whose term of ser-
vice has expired have been disbanded......
The shipment of contraband goods across
the Spanish frontier will be stopped by the
French Government......Mon. Testiole, cap-
tured by brigands, ransomed for ten thou-
sand dollars......The Midland Railway com
pany of England is to dispense with second
class coaches......The river Nile which has
been overflowing its banks at Cairo, Egypt,
is falling......One of the most severe ty-
phoons, ever witnessed by foreigners, visi-
ted the southern part of Japan, last Au-
gust.
			GENERAL.
	Public works in New York reported at a
stand still......Indians of Nebraska prophesy
no grasshoppers for six snows......State fairs
in the West have mostly been failures this
year......Great improvements have been
made the past year on public buildings and
grounds at Washington......Thirteen horses
were killed by one stroke of lightning dur-
ing a recent thunder storm at Upperville,
Va......Northern woolen mills are stopped,
but Georgia is increasing her number of
looms......A beautiful and accomplished
Pennsylvania heiress, lately, "immortalized"
her name among her friends by eloping with
a negro......Mrs. Julia Perkins of Cincinati,
recently murdered her child and attempted
suicide but was prevented......The estate
of Charles Sumner has been appraised and
is valued at one hundred and thirty-four
thousand, seven hundred and fifty-eight
dollars......Telegrams of recent date from
the east, tell of a $150,000 fire, one of $30,
000 and another of $20,000, taking place
about the same time and in towns but little
distance from each other.


OF what trade are bees? Comb makers.


A GOOD WORD FOR WOMEN.

	Let those who fear that the ladies of the 
land will be dragged down from their high
womanly position by a contact with politics,
that woman will not exercise the privilege
wisely, that she will not be true to her coun-
try, herself and her friends, come and wit-
ness an election day in Utah. Let them
compare it with the election days in other
places, and I will venture the assertion that
in this respect, at least, although living
among the mountains, they will admit we
are ahead of the age. The presence and
voice of woman purity and cheer; before
her, vice shrinks away, and its votaries are
sometimes so ashamed at her approach that
they resolve en masse not to visit the polls.
Whatever else is false, woman is always 
true. 
	     "Not she with traitorous kiss 
	       Her Savior strung, 
	   Not she bettrayed him 
	      With unhappy tongue. 
	   She, when Apsotles 
	     Shrank, did danger brave: 
	   Last at the cross
	     And earliest at the grave." 
		EX-GOVERNOR S. A. MANN.


CONFERENCE ITEMS.

	Never was a more glorious Indian Summer
known than the Saints were favored with dur-
ing the time of their late fall Conference. Not
even a gust of wind or a shower of rain occured
on either of the five days appointed for the
gathering together of the people, to prevent
even invalids f[-]om venturing forth. And those
who took advantage of the opportunities grant-
ed, for gaining instruction in the ways of li[-]e
and salvation, were uniformly blest inasmuch
as they treasure the good things offered from
the elders on the stand, and seek to live ac-
cording to the directions given.
	The health of President Young rendered it in-
consistent for him to speak to the congregation,
but he showed by his example, being at meet
ing each day, that he still holds to the doctrine
he has often preached in public, that it is good
for the Saints to congregate, and mingle in
prayer and praise, and the diffusing of knowl-
edge concerning heavenly things.
	During the Conference, discourses were deliv-
ered by President Geo. A. Smith and Elders C.
C. Rich, B. Young Jr., J. Taylor, W. Wood-
ruff, A. Carrington, F. D. Richards, O. Pratt,
G. Goddard, C. W. Penrose, G. Q. Cannon and
J. Van Cott.
	The instructions and exhortations given
were, as they have been in times past, calculated
to encourage oneness among the Saints; in or
der that they may the more readily become an
independent, self-sustaining people, hasten the
work of rearing temples to the most high God,
and in every way speed the progress of His
Kingdom upon the earth.


SEASONABLE HINTS.

	The weather here has been so continuously
beautiful this season, that the trees still retain
their thick foliage; and were it not that the
brown, orange and golden tints of autumn are
becoming mingled with the green hues of na-
ture's summer dress, we might imagine our-
selves in a land,
	"Of cloudless skies and sunny climes."
	Yet we all are certain that the storms of win-
ter will soon come with the discomforts of wet,
cloudy weather, mud and slush on the roads,
cold winds and biting frosts, and that, too, be-
fore many are prepared to meet them. If not
already attended to, now is the time to be mind-
ful of, and prepare for these changes in the wea-
ther, that will probably be all the more sud-
den because of the lateness of the season.
	As far as possible, a supply of good, warm
clothing, including over-shoes, or shoes or
boots thick enough to keep the feet warm and
dry; also suitable bed clothing should be ready
for use.
	Mothers should remember that their little
ones are not only ignorant of what is necessary
for their good, but also have the thoughtless-
ness of happy childhood; and when heated
with playing, are liable to expose themselves
so as to take cold, unless watched over. A lady
friend, whose motherly instincts, experience
and intelligence we regard highly, has, in con-
versation, called our attention to the danger in
which infants are often placed, at this time of
the year, when the warm, mild summer wea-
ther is giving way to the damp, cold and drafty
atmosphere of winter. Those who have become
inured to this change in the seasons, and even
mothers, often do not realize how sensitive are
these tender infants, who, in their little lives
have, probably, never felt other than the warm
temperature of the sunny seasons of the year.
And in many cases, their health is endangered
by sufficient care not being taken to protect
them from too sudden or too great changes of
temperature while indoors as well as out. Es-
pecial care should be taken when a babe is tak-
en from the cradel or bed where it may have
lain until quite warm, perhaps covered with
perspiration and thus rendered particularly
susceptible to even a slight degree of cold.
Sufficient care in these matters is not always
exercised, not from lack of feeling but for lack
of knowledge or thoughtfulness; and these lit-
tle ones suffer through being unable to bear the
extremes to which they are exposed.
	As the season changes care should also be 
taken in the diet of both old and young, especi-
ally, we think, with regard to those fruits which,
though out of season, can still be obtained
fresh. However agreeable they were in the
summer time it will be best for health's sake,
to partake of such only when cooked.


HOW TO BECOME ACCOMPLISHED.
	Many people especially among the young, are
apt to spend more time and thought in seeking
to acqure pleasing habits, attractive manners
and graceful, engaging ways, than would be in
anywise necessary if they but understood the 
proper method for obtaining these accomplish-
ments.
	As it is so delightful to be beloved and res-
pected by friends and acquaintances and as
fine accomplishments add so much to native
lovliness, as "Love is the fulfilling of the Law"
and so much happiness depends upon it—per-
haps we might say, especially to woman- it is
highly important that every daughter of Zion,
and indeed, every lady—in the land should 
know how to secure this great boon to herself
in the best and easiest manner possible.


﻿To many of our lady friends then we would
say, spare much of your wasted time and re-
lieve your minds of many troublesome and use-
less ideas in relation to what should be consid-
ered "genteel," "etiquette;" etc., and turn 
your attention to the study of that which will
make you truly refined.
	It is but to gain possession of and then to cul-
tivate within the heart, the Spirit of God, to
become not only agreeable, and accomplished,
but also loveable in the eyes of all right think-
ing people. Under the influence and direction
of this divine guide no person will speak or act
falsely or in any manner ungraceful or unbe-
coming.
	God does not err. His omnipotence is appar-
ent in small as well as in great matters. Nor
will His Gospel or any principle contained
therein lead any one to commit an unladylike 
or ungentlemanly action, or to  utter an uncouth
word or sentence. 
	David, the ancient poet, has beautifully illus-
trated these truths in his nineteenth psalm,
where he says:
	"The law of the Lord is perfect converting
the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure,
making wise the simple."
	To speak and act with wisdom is the only
way to be certain of speaking and acting with
propriety; and all other accomplishments
however desirable they may be in themselves,
are of little worth compared with the e. 
	It will, therefore, pay all parents who are de-
sirous that their children should be well edu
cated, to have them taught first of all the per-
fect law of the Lord, that they may obtain the
sure testimony of his spirit, which will make
them wise.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UNITING INTERESTS.

SOME OF ITS ADVANTAGES TO WOMAN
			ILLUSTRATED.

	How many frugal housekeepers, mothers of
families or women in almost any department
of labor can be found in our communities, who
do not work more hours of the time allotted
them for existence here, and in fact, accom-
plish more than is consistent with the laws of
nature and health? Where is there one who
does not allow work of some kind to infringe
more or less upon the proper seasons for rest?
Who does not take from the necessary eight
or nine hours sleep, regularly, one, two, or
three hours for the finishing up of some piece
of work, which must be done in order to give
place for something else? We may say they
nearly all do it; and so they are nearly all
wearing themselves out, some ten, others twen-
ty and still others fifty per cent.faster than they
should do.  Even while bearing children they
do not, cannot desist. Therefore it cannot be
expected that they will bear children with suf-
ficient hardihood and energy to enable them
ever to accomplish great and noble things, even
if they live to become men and women.
	But how are these great evils to be avoided?
Cooking and cleaning, laundry work, making
and mending must all be done in every house-
hold; and who but mother is able to do it all, o
at least superintend each department and see
that things are kept moving? Often, too, it
occurrs, right in the midst of the greatest hur-
ry and worry about the work that the nursing
baby falls sick. What else could reasonably be
expected, when day after day the nourishment
it receives from its mother is heated to a sick-
ening degree by anxiety and over work? This
only makes the burden of the weary[-] worn out
woman ten times heavier. She knows that for
the sake of her precious babe if for nothing else,
she should stop working so hard; but what is
she to do? She finds no stopping place, even
though she must work with a sick and fretful
child in her arms or on her lap. Why at such
times does not every woman hire some one to
help her with her work? Very many do not
because they have no means of paying hired
help. How is it possible for a woman thus sit-
uated to do anything by which to earn money
to hire help with? and does it not require every
cent earned by the husband and father to feed
and clothe the family? Look at a community
thus situated, and find an effectual remedy for
all these troubles. We see but one. Men and
women struggle on year after  year in the man-
ner above described, and in nine cases out of
every ten their chances for less toil and fatigue,
and more easy and pleasant life grow no better.
But let a unity of interests be established, say
among the women, and by wise and careful
management, all the difficulties mentioned in
this article would at once be removed.
	Every one is better adapted for the following of
some pursuits than others not so congenial. As
with spiritual gifts, in which to one is given
the gift of prophecy, to another the gift of
tongues and to another the gift of healing, &c.,
so it is in regard to temporal matters. Some
women are natural dress-makers or tailoresses,
and prefer cutting out and making up clothing
to any other kind of labor. Others are experts
in the kitchen and delight in cooking and pre-
paring food. Suppose one of each class, living
in close proximity one to another, should agree
to unite their efforts to make their homes com-
fortable and orderly. And the one would say
"Bring your cloth to me and I will cut and
make the garments for your family. As you
understand the art of cooking so much better
than I do, if you will cook for us I shall have
plenty of time to do the sewing for both fami-
lies." Then the woman who liked the kitchen
work, might answer. "O! that will be such a
relief to me. I can as well cook for ten as for
five: but manage as I will, I am always in the
rear with my sewing." Both women would
thus find their burdens made lighter by half.
The seamstress would not have to charge her
mind with troublesome thoughts about prepara-
tions for dinner, that it might be served in the
proper time and way, thus distracting her at-
tention from the happy pursuit of those labors
for which she was best qualified. And the cook
would have no need to waste cloth and spoil
garments through being perplexed and worried
over two or three things which she considered
herself necessitated to perform at the same time.
	The same method of pursuit may be consid-
ered in connection with all other branches of
industry; and it will be found that immense
good would be the natural result.


HOME AFFAIRS
	THROUGH THE "Millennial Star," Betsy
Dobson requests Thomas Dobson of this city
to communicate with her care of James Top-
ping, 4 Leeming Street, Preston, England.
	DURING THE days of the late Conference,
numerous calls were made at our office by old
friends and new, and we take this opportunity
for saying we were pleased to meet them all.
	ADVICES FROM Bear Lake Valley state that
the people there have been blessed this year
with the most abundant and finest harvest of
all kinds of grain ever raised there, also that
live stock is doing finely.
	A TRAGEDY occurred at Bountiful some days
ago, which appears to be as mysterious as it is
was terrible. Mrs. John Adams, a resident of
the above named place for more than fifteen
years, and a good, kind, inoffensive woman,


was suddenly shot dead by some unknown per-
son, while sitting by the table reading. It was
evening and quite dark which rendered the
tracing of the assassin at the time impossible.
And so far, neither day-light, diligent search
nor anything else has given any clue to the
perpetrator of the fiendish act.
	WE LEARN from Sister Elizabeth Fox, of
Franklin, Oneida Co., that their Relief Society
has lately been newly organized. And from
Sister S. Say, of Fairfield, Cedar Valley, that
the Society there is moving steadily on in their
good work. The sisters of the different societies
throughout the Territory, will please remember
that their friends and co-workers are always
pleased to hear from them through the EXPO-
NENT, and not forget or neglect to send in their
reports.
	A LOVELY bouquet of autumn flowers has
been placed upon our table by Mrs. Wagstaff
of the Sugar House Ward. Pinks, peonies.
scarlet geraniums; crimson, yellow and white
dahlias, double stocks, French marigold, snap-
dragon, sweet williams and white hyacinths,
beautifully arranged and set off with asparagus
and a broad-leaf-silver-edged grass, the name
of which we are not acquainted with. We
gratefully acknowledge this compliment of Sis-
ter W.’s, and think, although she apologized
for her bouquet's being late, it has no look of
“the last rose of summer.”


FLOWERS.

	REMEMBER that success is more in the
man than in the country.
	GREATNESS lies not in being strong, but
in the right use of strength.
	THE certain way to be cheated is to fancy
one's self more cunning than others.
	STRIVE to be as kind, forbearing, and for-
giving as you can, both to friends and foes.
	HE that follows the Lord fully will find
goodness and mercy following him continu-
ally.
	IT should not discourage us if our kind-
ness is unacknowledged; it has its influence
still.
	LIFE is a voyage, in the progress of
which we are perpetually changing our
scenes.
	MANY run about after felicity, like an
absent-minded man hunting for his hat
while it is on his head or in his hand.
	IT is of no advantage to have a lively
mind if we are not just. The perfection of
the pendulum is not to go fast, but to be reg-
ular.


A VERY rich merchant who had an only
son, made his will, by which he gave all his
wealth, which amounted to 300,000 francs,
to certain monks, leaving them to give his
son such a sum as they wished. The mer-
chant died. The monks took all to them-
selves without wishing to give anything to
the heir. He complained to the Viceroy,
who, having seen the will, asked the monks
what they offered to the son. "Ten thou-
sand francs," they replied. "You wish,
then, to have all the rest?" "Yes my lord:
we demand the execution of the will." That
is just," said the Viceroy; "but you do not
understand it properly. It is said that the
son shall have that which you wish; you
grant ten to the son; it is then 290,000
francs that you want. Ah, well! following
the clause of the will, this sum is set apart
for the son. I order you to give it to him;
the 10,000 francs remaining are therefore
yours." They were obliged to submit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			HOPE.

	THOUGHTS OF AN HOUR.

Give back, give back thy genial beams.
To cheer life's path of grief and pain,
Those blissful though illusive dreams,
O star of hope give back again!
Give back the promises of joy,
That gleam along the clouds of woe,
How much of grief can they destroy,
Though never realized below.

Give back the sunny smiles of calm,
That whispered peace amid the storm;
Dispense again the healing balm,
And miracles of good perform.
Thine are the promises of heaven,
Or latent memories of the soul;
Some straying beams of glory given,
To lead us to the blissful goal.

Dear star, the heart unlit by thee
Is but a charnel house of gloom,
Where nothing lives but misery,
And no sweet flowers of promise bloom.
Give back, give back thy genial beams,
To cheer life's paths of grief and pain;
Thy blissful though illusive dreams
O star of hope give back again!
Salt Lake City,			RICH SMYTH.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Corn Meal Pudding.—Two pints meal, one
pint grated bread, one of molasses, one of brown
sugar, one of sour milk.
	Canning Fruit.—The process is very simple.
Place a clean and very wet towel in a pan, away
from currents of air; set the can to be filled on the 
towel, put a silver spoon in it; then set the fruit
funnel and pour in the boiling fruit. Remove the
funnel and spoon, fill the can to the very top, and
seal tightly. Then, when nearly cold, give the
screw ring, if possible, another turn or part of a 
turn.  Stand the cans upside down to make sure
that they are tight. If the syrup can't get out the
air can't get in.
	That is true!  Men do need and should have
night-gowns. Every man does who knows "what's
what" and when he does he does not do as nine-
tenths of the women do who wear them, wear the
garment he has worn all day under his night-gown.
How many women are there who remove the 
chemise when they put on the night-dress? But the
men who do wear night-gowns make them substi-
tutes for the day shirt—hence they benefit by the
change, whereas woman suffers by the addition.—
R. N. Y.
	To Stiffen Linen.—Such articles as collars,
cuffs, etc., which require to be made very stiff;
should be starched in the following way:—Mix a
tablespoonful of starch with enough cold water to
make it smooth, then turn on enough boiling water
and boil it ten minutes; then add a bit of white
wax the size of a three cent piece and a teaspoonful
of alcohol. The spirit is to increase the stiffness
and help to retain it. The wax is to prevent the
starch from sticking to the iron. If the flat iron
still sticks to the starch, rub hard soap gently over
the bottom of the iron. Put the collars, cuffs, etc.,
into a tin pan and place in a warm spot by the 
stove or range, to become very dry before putting
away.
	-Renovating Half-worn Clothes.—A few weeks
ago a new suit of clothes was considered indispen-
sable by the head of our family who had unfortu-
nately been caught in a shower, giving his good
clothes rather a dilapidated appearance. But not
having more means at our command than our ne-
cessities demanded, and having determined to econ-
omize in every possible way, I concluded that if
sponging and pressing would restore them it should
be done and proceeded accordingly, sponging the
collars and other soiled parts, with hot soap-suds,
followed by clear, warm water, then damping
the lining of each garment and pressing carefully
on the wrong side, placing a clean cotton cloth, free
from lint, under the iron. The result is that "our
husband" is quite satisfied with his old clothes,
and has even been complimented by persons of
taste, on the "nice fit" of his "new suit."
	Night Dresses.—A good deal is said of the man-
ner and fashion and ways of caring for "ladies'
and children's" night dresses; but where are the 
men's? Don't they have any or are they unmen-
tionable? It is self-evident that no person should
wear a garment during the night that is worn dur-
ing the day; and if a "lady," with scarcely enough
exercise to produce a drop of perspiration, needs a 
clean, well-aired garment in which to sleep, how is
it with a man who has been hard at work all day
in the dust and heat, with the sweat dripping from
every pore? If a healthy, active child, to whom
sleep comes as easily and naturally as to a kitten,
needs a refreshing night dress, how is it with the
man and father who has spent the day in his pent
up store, office or counting room in exhaustive
mental labor and goes to bed worn out in mind and
body and with every nerve unstrung?
	Though men have wisdom, power and ability,
though they are strong, helpful and independent,
though they have office and greatness, sit in legis-
lative halls and become M.C.'s, they do need and 
always should have—night-gowns.
					    	Geraldine Germane.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	ERYSIPELAS, a disease often coming with-
out premonition, and ending fatally in three
or four days, is sometimes promptly cured
by applying a poultice of raw cranberries
pounded, and placed on the part overnight.
	INSECT bites, and even that of a rattle-
snake, have passed harmless, by stirring
enough of common salt into the yolk of a
good egg to make it sufficiently thin for a
plaster to be kept on the bitten parts.
	LEMON FOR DIPHTHERIA.—In a clinical
lecture by M. Bucquoy, he expressed his
preference for lemon juice, as a local appli-
cation in diphtheria, to acids, chloride of
potash, nitrate of silver, per-chloride of
iron, alum or lime water. He uses it by
dipping a little plug of cotton wool, twisted
around a wire, in the juice, and pressing it
against the diseased surface four or five
times daily.
	MEN talk about "hardening the constitu-
tion," and with that view expose them-
selves to summer's sun and winter's wind,
to strains and efforts, and many unnecessary
hardships. To the same end ill-informed
mothers souse their little infants in cold
water day by day, The best way I know
of hardening the constitution is to take
good care of it, for it is no more improved
by harsh treatment than a fine garment or
a new hat is made better by being banged
about.—Hall's Journal of Health.
	IN case of burning or scalding the body,
immersing the part in cold water gives en-
tire relief, as instantaneous as lightning.
Meanwhile, get some common white flour,
and apply it an inch or two thick on the in-
jured part, the moment it emerges from the
water, and keep sprinkling on the flour
through anything like a pepper box cover,
so as to put it on evenly. Do nothing else,
drink nothing but water, eat nothing, until
improvement commences, except some dry
bread softened in very weak tea of some
kind, Cures of frightful burns have been
performed in this way, as wonderful as they
are painless.
	As a people, we do not get enough sleep,
we do not get enough rest, we will not take
time for these things, hence our nervousness
our instability, our hasty temper, and the
premature giving out of the stamina of life.
Half of us are old at three score, the very
time a man ought to be in his mental, moral
and physical prime. Half of our wives,
especially in the farming districts, die long
before their time, because they do not get
rest and sleep proportioned to their labor.
Nine times out of ten, it would be better for
all parties if the farmer should get up and
light the fires and prepare breakfast for his
wife, she coming directly from her toilet to
the breakfast table, because it almost always
happens that she has to remain up to set
things right long after the husband has gone
to bed, when really he has nothing to do
after supper but to go to bed. This is a
monstrously cruel imposition on wives and
mothers.—Hall's Journal of Health.
	IF a person swallows any poison whatever,
or has fallen into convulsions from having
overloaded the stomache, an instantaneous
remedy, more efficient and applicable in a
large number of cases than any half dozen
medicines we can now think of, is a heaping
teaspoon of common salt and as much ground
mustard, stirred rapidly in a teacup of water,
warm or cold, and swallowed instantly. It
is scarsely down before it begins to come up,
bringing with it the remaining contents of
the stomach; and lest there be any remnant
of poison, however small, let the white of
an egg, or a teacup of strong coffee, be swal-
lowed as soon as the stomach is quiet; be-
cause these very common articles nullify a
larger number of virulent poisons than any
medicines in the shops.
	IN one of his Boston lectures, Dr. Brown-
Sequard gives the following simple means
for checking coughing, sneezing, etc.—
"Coughing can be stopped by pressing on
the nerves of the lip in the neighborhood of
the nose. A pressure there may prevent a
cough when it is beginning. Sneezing may
be stopped by the same mechanism. Press-
ing, also, in the neighborhood of the ear,
may stop coughing. It is so, also, of hic-
cough, but much less so than for sneezing
or coughing. Pressing very hard on the top
of the mouth, inside, is also a means of
stopping coughing. And I may say that
the will has immense power there. There
was a French soldier who used to say, when-
ever he entered the wards of his hospital,
'The first patient who coughs here will [-]e
deprived of food to-day.' It was exceed-
ingly rare that a patient coughed then."


﻿A WASHINGTON correspondent writes:
“In company with Mr. Allison I called on
our honored citizen, the genial and very com-
petent Secretary of War General Belknap.
He is in appearance every inch a soldier,
and in bearing a gentleman, without the
frigidity and fussiness of too many officials.
During the pleasant private conversation he
gave me this item of his personal history:
"I was born in Washington, and in passing
the War Department I used to wonder if I
would ever get into it. In the course of
time I read law, and became a clerk for six
months in the War Office. I then took my
satchel and started West for Iowa, with a
deep conviction and presentment in my mind
that I would one day return here as head of
the Department. A fellow clerk said to me:
'Belknap, you are a fool to leave a good
clerkship, with a salary of twelve hundred
dollars and go West.' 'I went West,' he
said, 'I am Secretary of War,he is my clerk.'
This is only one of a thousand incidents
illustrating the wisdom and correctness of
the oft' laughed-at advice of the sage Chap-
paqua, ,Go West, young man!'"


﻿Why is Sunday the strongest day in the
week?—Because all the rest are week days.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	The French Minister to England gets a
salary of $40,000 a year.
	Mrs Margaret Tallman, aged 114 years,
died in East Saginaw on the 26th August.
	 Over 7,000 perch of stone have all ready
been used in the foundation of the Centen-
nial buildings at Philadelphia.
	London had in the second week of Au-
gust 91,000 paupers, and the births in the
same city for the same week were 2,365,
while the deaths were only 1,368.
	There is an apple tree still living at York,
Me., which was brought from England in a
tub, 200 years ago, and another at Bristol,
200 years old, that still bears fruit.
	The Jews of Moldavia and the Ukraine
prepare from honey a sort of sugar, which
is solid and as white as snow. They expose
the honey to frost for about three weeks,
where neither sun or snow can reach it, and
in a vessel which is a bad conductor of ca-
loric, by which process the honey becomes
clear and hard, like sugar.
	The railway which is soon to be con-
structed from Naples to the top of Mount
Vesuvius will be about six miles long.
From the city to the base of the mountain,
fourteen miles, ordinary rails will be used,
but the remainder of the way the system of
traction by iron rails will be adopted. The
terminus, which will be within a few steps
of the crater, will be sunk twenty metres
under the lava. In case of eruption, the
current would thus be turned away from
the rail which throughout its whole course
will be raised above the level of the soil.
	Eighteen years ago, an educational con-
vention was held in Pennsylvania, and a
proposition favoring the co-education of the
sexes was, after a day's wrangling and amid
bitter opposition, overwhelmingly defeated.
Pennsylvania has just held another educa-
tional convention, and the same proposition
was carried without a dissenting voice. The
late convention also recommends the colleges
to open their doors to women without fur-
ther delay, as it holds the admission of
women to the college only a question of
time.—Santa Barbara Index.
	Within thirty miles of London, lavender
fields have become quite an extensive and
recognized industry, and there is annually
produced in England alone, sufficient oil
from the plant to manufacture thirty thou-
sand gallons of spirits of lavender, besides
a large quantity, the total of which is un-
known, to be used in the production of
other perfumes with more pretentious
names. The plant is at its best between
three years of age and seven. The harvest
time is the first week in August. The
flowers are then cut and taken to the dis-
tillery, followed by an innumerable army of
bees, which insect is especially fond of them.
Here the essential oils are pressed out, and
are ready to be mixed with the proper ingre-
dients to make lavender water.


Gentleman (who had stepped upon her
dress)—A thousand pardons, madam. Lady
—(pleasantly) It's of no consequence, sir.
What she said of him. "Awkward, stu-
pid fellow! My gathers are all torn out, and
I've got to go home." What he said, to
himself, "Confoundedly ridiculous fashion,
these trains in the street! Make a man look
like a fool, cutting up such capers with
them."


WOMEN WORKERS.
     From the "New North West."
	It is said that in the city of San Francisco
there are between three and four thousand
women and girls, ranging from mature age
to almost infantile years, who daily leave
their homes to perform some kind of work
in the various stores, shops, book-binderies,
printing offices, etc.
	What say the sticklers for "woman's
sphere" at this? These women and girls
are, through the long hours of the day away
from their homes. Are they out of their
sphere, that God and nature designed them
to fill?  If so, who is responsible for thus
thwarting the designs of the Creator and
subverting His laws.
	Of all the twaddle, familiarly called "ob-
jections," which we daily hear, perhaps
that which is so persistently urged relative
to home being the only legitimate province
for the exercise of woman's talent, is the
most exasperating to patience, because in
the plainest violation of common sense.
To declare that God designed all women to
remain at home, and then witness the stress
of circumstances that compels so many
thousands of them to work abroad to main-
tain a home, is equivalent to an accusation
that He is unable to carry out His designs,
in the formation of His creatures.  Such
sacrilege as this we leave for those who be-
lieve that were it not for the powerful aid
that masculine humanity renders to Divini-
ty, He would be totally unable to keep femi-
nine humanity within proper and legiti-
mate bounds.
	In regard to the manner in which the
woman workers of the world engage in the
duties that fall to their share, we quote
from the Golden Era (San Francisco) the
following: If there is one thing that testi-
fies in woman's favor more than another, it
is her willingness to work and gain an hon-
est livelihood. Poorely paid many of them,
tempted, often sorely pressed for food, they
pursue their duty. The life of a sewing
girl, as she toils from morning till night, for
a scanty salary, is not the most cheering,
still we see her following the desolate path,
turning neither to the gilded way of sin,
nor falling into the abyss of dissipation.
Is there not a lesson of patience, fortitude,
perseverance and endurance in the life of
the sewing girl that ought to shame men
from their ways of idleness and low dissi-
pation? Is not the "lord of creation"
sometimes shame-faced to see in the delicate
creature threading her way home from
work, a woman who has labored faithfully,
who has been tempted sorely. whose home
is comfortless, whose table is poorly supplied,
yet who has been faithful to her trust in all
things, while he has fallen from work, spent
his money in vicious ways, and made him-
self a disgrace to his species. How will it
average to compare the six or eight thou-
sand men who are seen in the saloons, low
places of amusement and loafing on the
street corners at nights with these three or
four thousand women? Which is following
the steepest path with the bravest purpose?
Which meets temptation and puts it aside
with the firmest hand? Where is the soft-
est nature and the most redeeming spirit?
And yet, though their service be harder,
these women are not paid like men.


“Lost child” was announced at Farming-
ton, Maine, and the town turned out to
search. After a time the frantic mother re-
membered that she had put him in his little
bed.


﻿RELIGIOUS INTOLERANCE.

*    *  The spirit of religious intolerance
is not altogether confined to Utah, for we
are pained to have to record an instance
which occured a few weeks ago, here in
Christian England, the circumstances of
which we take from a letter written by the
mother:—A child of parents who had em-
braced the Gospel of Christ as believed in
and practiced by the Latter-day Saints re-
siding near Warwickshire, was taken ill
one morning, and on the next morning was
seized with convulsions and died before
medical aid could be called in, in conse-
quence of which the doctor refused to give
a certificate of its death, but after explana-
tion did give one, upon which, application
was made to the clergyman for his certifi-
cate; he refused to give one or have the
child buried within the consecrated ground,
his only excuse as made known, was the
child had not been christened; under this
state of things the grief-striken parents
were compelled to keep their dead child five
days, when the clergyman leaving town,
the sexton consented that if the parents
could get some woman to carry the child to
the church-yard or cemetry after sunset, he
would bury it outside the consecrated
ground, but she must not let it be seen, or
say anything about it. Under these cir-
cumstances the parents not knowing what
else to do consented to this proposition, the
mother of the child however followed the
person who carried the corpse, and stood
away off and saw the sexton dig a hole near
the fence, and bury the child as he would a
cat or dog. The mother overpowered with
grief came up, and asked permission to 
plant a rose tree in the edge to mark the
spot, but was informed by the sexton that
he dare not let her do anything of the kind,
but he leveled the ground so that no traces
of the burial could be seen. This was very
grievous to the parents, as they have two
other children buried in the same cemetry,
neither of which had been christened, yet
they were favored with what is called a
Christian burial. To what a state of deg-
radation some beings will allow their big-
otry and prejudices to carry them; this, a so-
called minister of the Gospel (?) refuses
burial to a little boy who never knew any-
thing of sin, but to show his spleen on its
parents who presumed on serving God in a
different manner than he would have them
do. Shame on all such who assume to
themselves such prerogatives, for they call
down the indignation of an offended God
upon them; they know not how futile their
efforts will be to accomplish what they have
in their hearts, and how low they will sink
down in disgrace as many others have done
who have raised their heel against the work 
of God. The time will come and is not far
distant when they will realize and know to
their sorrow against whom they have waged
such a warfare, yet we would after all, and
more especially could we see them repent
of their evil way say with our Savior—
“Farther forgive them for they know not
what they do."—L. J. N., in Mill. Star.


It is told of a man poorly dressed that he
went to church seeking an opportunity to
worship. The usher did not notice him, but
seated several well-dressed persons who pre-
sented themselves, when finally the man
addressed the usher, saying; "Can you tell
me whose church this is!" "Yes, this is
Christ's Church" "Is he in?" was the next
question, after which a seat was not so hard
to find.


80				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.
	What is that which a person likes to have
and to get rid of as soon as possible? A
good appetite.
	The provisions in the ark did not give
out. They had as much Ham at the end of
the voyage as when they started.
	There is a word in our language of five
letters, and if two of the letters are removed
only one will remain, and that word is stone.
	It is sometimes the privilege of the lover
to be, at one and the same time, in two sit-
uations. When beside his mistress he may
also be beside himself.
	A lady promised to give her maid $25 as
a marriage portion. "Why, Mary, what a 
little husband you have got!" "Dear me!
what could you expect for $25."
	An exchange having advised its readers
to plant peas "in the new moon," the Nor-
ristown Herald asks, "But how are they go-
ing to do it? They can't reach up. The
ground is a better place to plant peas any-
how."
	A call to start a society for the study of
science was responded to by five persons.
The next morning sixty-seven people were
standing in front of the Wooster House
wholly absorbed in watching two men set a
hitching post.—Earlville Transcript.
	Thackeray tells of an Irishwoman beg-
ging of him, who, when she saw him put-
ting his hand in his pocket, cried out, "May
the blessings of God follow you all the days
of your life!" but when he drew out his 
snuff-box, quickly added—"and never over-
take you."
	The Boston "Traveler" says when they
want to find out in the country if a girl
is courting or not, an old lady steps in and
remarks; "I say! there ain't no one sick in
this here house or nothin' is there? I see a
light burnin' nigh onto 12 o'clock last night,
but I don't smell no camphire or nothin'
round."


﻿LADY CLERKS IN WASHINGTON.
	I am acquainted with a lady who writes
Spencerian pages in the Patent Office at
Washington for $900 a year. Her father
was a naval officer of long and meritorious
service, and died a Rear Admiral. Her
husband put $70,000 on the wrong side of
the stock sale in New York, lost, and
sneaked to the hereafter through the back
door of suicide. Patient and lovable, she
works as steadily as if some mighty reward
were near at hand. I suppose it is hope on,
hope ever, with her, though nobody can see
anything she has to expect more than a life
of routine and a humble grave. In Paris,
she would have flown first to the streets and
then to the charcoal brazier. In London it
would have been the Argyle rooms, gin, and
the waters of the Blackfriar's Bridge. As
you pass the tables of the ladies in the
Treasury building you are moving among
better materials for romance than exist in
the teeming brains of Hugo or Turgenieff.
"You see that second woman to your left"
whispered Spinner. "Her father was once
at the head of two railroads. The '57 panic
laid him out. She married a Baden baron,
and he left her in a year or two for some
Dutch flame. She has a noble little boy,
five years old now. Says she is going to fit
him for Havard by-and-by, and then make
a Senator of him. Watch her count that
money. You cannot move your fingers up
and down in the air as fast as she brushes


off the single notes. Never did a day's work
of any kind till she came here."
	All honor to the lady clerks at Washing-
ton for adding the strongest proof yet given
of woman's power to lose friends and for-
tune and still retain virtue and indepen-
dence. God bless the multitude of faithful
workers who are showing each day how
possible it is for them to earn their own liv-
ing, and yet remain cultured, respected
ladies.—Washington Chronicle.


﻿A MODEL FARMER'S WIFE.
	Matilda Fletcher thus describes a far-
mer's wife who is not only beautiful and
wise but possesses several cardinal virtues
in addition.
	"The most beautiful woman I have ever
known was a farmer's wife who attended to
the household duties of a family of four, and
also assisted in gardening and the light farm
work; and yet I never saw her hands rough
and red, and never saw a freckle on her
nose. Impossible! you say; how did she
manage? I never asked her, but she had
some envious neighbors who went slouch-
ing around with red, scaly hands, sunburnt
faces, and hair matted with dust and oil,
who let me into the dreadful secret. They
informed me with many an ominous shake
of the head that she was just the proudest
minx that ever lived; that she actually
wore india-rubber gloves when she used the
broom and scrubbing-brush, and always
when she worked out-doors; that she also
had a bonnet made of oil silk, completely
covering the head, face and neck, leaving
only apertures for seeing and breathing,
thus securing perfect freedom from sun,
wind and dust. Did you ever hear of such
depravity? She also fastened her dishcloth
to a stick so that she need not put her hands
in hot water. For the same reason she ac-
complished her laundry work with a ma-
chine and wringer. And then to see her in
the afternoon tricked out in a fashionable
white dress, with a bright colored ribbon at
her throat and a rose in her hair, entertain-
ing in the parlor, as though she was the
greatest lady in the land, was more than
their patience could indure. And her hus-
band! He had such a satisfied expression
that it was a perfect aggravation to or-
dinary people to look at him. He deserved
to be happy, because he encouraged and
helped her to cultivate beauty in her-
self, her family and her home; and I don’t
know but her success principally belonged
to him, because he brought all the new in-
ventions that could lighten her labors and
all the delicate and pretty things she needed
to adorn her home, and when she was sick,
he wouldn't let her touch work until she was
well and strong. Strange as it may seem,
at such times he actually devoted himself
to her with as much care and tenderness as
he would if she had been the most valuable
horse on the farm.


﻿Muscle in Music.—Of all the discoveries
for which the world is indebted to German
professors, one just published by Professor
Schmidt may claim to be the most singular.
Hearing Herr Rubinstien play at a concert,
he took it into his head to count the notes
which that famous pianist had played by
heart, and found them to amount to 63,990,
fully justifying, therefore, an assertion pre-
viously made by the physiologist Haring,
that a pianist's calling lays about the heaviest
tax of any upon the memory. Herr Schmidt
was, however not satisfied with this enu-
meration. Applying Austrian neukreutzers
as a dynamometer, he tested the pressure


requisite to strike a key on Herr Rubin-
stein's piano, and found it to be equivalent
to 24 neukreutzers, which is 2 1-5 ounces.
The force exerted by the pianist in playing
the 62,990 note piece he therefrom calcula-
ted to amount to 944 cwt. Herr Schmidt
then intruded into Herr von Bulow's room
and tried his piano, which was a harder
touch, but which no doubt Herr Rubinstein
could have played on perfectly well. Here
the pressure would have amounted to 118
1-0 cwt. This discovery may be of use to
pianists who are unaware of how great an
effort of muscle they go through in playing
a piece, but surely it requires a German
professor to draw such a lesson from a con-
cert.


H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP CORNER.

H. WALLACE
Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
	
			DOCTOR CROCKWELL
Has had nearly 40 years experience in the treatment of
female diseases, making their complaints a speciality. He
guarantees safe, easy and speedy relief in perilous cases,
without the unpleasant and dangerous use of instruments,
but with simple herbs.
	His remedies fill the nuptial couch with bliss, surrounds
the heart with joyousones and prevents their untimely ad- 
vent.	
	He refers to his numerous patrons for the last 10 years
in Utah.
Residence near the street car track, 9th Ward, Fourth
East St., Salt Lake City.		

			CLUB	RATES.  
Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club. 		-		-		-		$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club,	-	-	-	-	- 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand- 
	somely framed, selling price $4  	-	-	$43 00	
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scribe, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


﻿Woman's Exponent.
Vol. 3	Salt Lake City, Utah, November 1, 1874.	No. 11


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Dame Fashion is always saying some-
thing, and now she says, “Wear high tor-
toise-shell combs again.”
	It will be a relief to a great many ladies
to learn that the latest Paris skirt just nice-
ly clears the ground.
	Europe appears to be anxiously looking
forward to a grevious war, though at pres-
ent a great calm seems to prevail there.
	Gentlemen editors are making remarks
on the said-to-be-fact that Miss Sherman
had, among other things in her bridal ward-
robe, one hundred pairs of stockings. We 
would like to know if it is any legitimate
affair of theirs if she had three hundred,
provided they haven't to pay for them.
	It is stated on reliable authority that or-
ganizations of white men are being formed
in all the Southern States, to defeat the
colored man and the carpet bagger. An ex-
change says, "This means a war of races."
By prophetic discernment it was proclaimed
years ago that such a war would come.
	Toronto, Canada, has advanced a step
ahead by electing a woman, Mrs. B. Herman,
as City Treasurer. She will doubtles assist
in proving that such positions of public trust
may be as faithfully and judiciously sus-
tained by daughters of Eve as they ever
were by any of Adam’s sons.
	By the “Brooklyn” boiler explosion,
which occurred on the 22nd ult., in the river
twelve miles below Detroit, Michigan, it
was reported that sixteen persons were in-
stantaneously killed, and a number more
badly injured. This is but one of a series
of shocking events of a similar nature and
of recent date, by which almost countless
souls have been suddenly ushered into eter-
nity.
	An editor of forty years standing says
he never lost a dollar by a female subscriber.
He thinks women make it a point of con-
scientious duty to pay for anything they bar-
gain for. We heard a photographic artist say,
not long since, that he scarcely considered it
necessary to book anything against a woman;
he never knew one to forget or fail to pay a
debt. Such expressions in woman's favor
argue well for the rights she claims.
	At Oak Ridge cemetery Springfield, Ill.,
a statue of the late President Abraham Lin-
coln has recently been completed upon the
spot where rest his earthly remains. The
event of unveiling the statue in the pres-
ence of an immense crowd, was conducted
with grand ceremony. Appropriate music
was followed by eloquent orations. Many
good things were spoken and read; among
the best, perhaps, was the statement that
the statue was completed and paid for.
	The second session of the Woman’s Con-
gress was held in Chicago last month. Mrs.
Livermore presided, and a large number of
representative women were present. Mat-
ters concerning the education and general
improvement of woman were freely and
ably discussed, and reports and suggestions
upon the same subjects were read. The ses-
sion lasted three days. It may yet appear
that the cause of woman progresses slowly,
but it is becoming every day more sure. 
	Woeful accounts are given of the suf-
fering inhabitants in the grasshopper re-
gions of Nebraska. Some are said to be in the
neighborhood of starvation, and thousands
will have to be fed by charity. These
scenes of distress are near home; and after
the several grasshopper seasons which have
lately been experienced in some portions of
this Territory, such reports can but remind
the people that through the mercies of God,
they have thus far been saved from such
calamities, by hearkening in a measure to
the counsel of His servants, to "live within
their means" and "store up their grain."
	Political arithmeticians have demon-
strated that if every man would work four
good hours in each day, on something of
use, it would be labor sufficient to procure
all the necessary comforts of life. No such
thing as want would be known, and the re-
maining twenty hours might be for rest,
leisure and pleasure. As nothing is said
about the employment of woman, we sup-
pose her whole time might be given to self-
improvement and the exercise, of her one,
unmistakable, uncontrovertible right—to
bring forth others of her species, to work
and be worked for.
	The officers of the Treasury at Wash-
ington, have, after much discussion upon
the subject of relatives in office, concluded
that "a person having a father or mother,
son or daughter in any department of the
government cannot be employed in the
Treasury department, and any person now
employed in the departments who have any
of the above named relatives in the govern-
ment service must be removed." Quite a
number of vacancies will be the result of
this new order, and in some instances, al-
most entire families will be thrown out of
employ. But after all the movement may
not be an injudicious one.


ANECDOTES.
	It is related of a minister who was noted
for his long sermons with many divisions
that one day, when he was advancing among
his teens, he reached at last a kind of rest-
ing-place in his discourse, when, pausing to
take a breath, he asked the question, "And
what shall I say more?" A voice from the
congregation earnestly responded, "Say
Amen!"
	Bunyan, the author of "Pilgrims Pro-
gress," on being cast into prison, made a
flute of one of the rails of the stool belong-
ing to his cell. The keeper often heard
sweet music, but could not trace it, as Bun-
yan, on his approach always replaced the rail
in the stool. The officers searched in vain
for the mysterious sounds, but Bunyan kept
his secret, and the baffled men were forced
to believe them supernatural.
	Gov. Woodson made a speech in Lafayette
County, Missouri, the other day which it
was hoped would have a beneficial effect in
inducing the Grangers to join the Democratic
party. At the close of the effort a particu-
larly attentive Granger was asked what he
thought of it. Pondering a moment he re-
plied:—“It reminds me of one of my cows.
She raises her tail higher, bellows and paws
the ground, and makes more fuss than any
other critter on the farm, and gives less
milk."
	One evening, a lady, who belongs on the
editorial staff of one of the leading dailies
of New York, had been detained by office
duties until rather a late hour. Living on
the Heights in Brooklyn, it was not much
of a venture to go home without an escort,
so she started. On the boat a gentleman(?)
said, "Are you alone?" "No sir," said the
lady, and when the boat touched stepped off.
"I thought you said you were not alone,"
said the fellow, stepping to her side again.
"I am not," replied the lady. "Why I 
don't see any one; who is with you?"
"God Almighty and the angels sir—I am
never alone." "You keep too good compa-
ny for me madam; good night."
	Gordon, the Scottish painter, used to tell
this story of Lord Palmerston: "I had ex-
hibited for years, but without any particular
success. One year, however—the year be-
fore I painted ‘The Corsicans’—Lord Pal-
merston took a sudden fancy to my picture
called 'Summer in the Lowlands,' and bought
it at a high figure. His lordship at the
same time made inquiries after the artist,
and invited me to call upon him. I waited
upon his lordship accordingly. He compli-
mented me upon the picture, but there was
one thing about it he could not understand.
'What is that, my lord?' I asked. 'That
there should be such long grass in a field
where there are so many sheep,' said his
lordship, promptly, and with a merry twin-
kle of the eye. It was a decided hit this;
and having bought the picture and paid for
it, he was entitled to his joke. 'How do
you account for it?' he went on, smiling,
and looking first at the picture and then at
me. 'Those sheep, my lord,' I replied,
'were only turned into the field the night
before I finished the picture.' His lordship
laughed heartily, and said 'Bravo' at my re-
ply, and gave me a commission for two
more pictures.
	An anecdote of Greeley enlivened Mrs.
Lillie Deveraux Blake's argument before the
Judiciary Committee of the New York As-
sembly, the other day. She wished to il-
lustrate by it the proposition that a strong
man did not always play the roll of protect-
or of his fellow-sister. And this is the sto-
ry: On a certain occasion, when Mr. Greeley
was quite a young man, and lived in a coun-
try infested by wild animals, he went call-
ing on a distant neighbor late one afternoon.
After spending an hour or two of delightful
social intercourse, he received an intimation
from the head of the house that it was time
for him to turn his steps homeward. Hor-
ace seemed loath to act upon the advice
given him, and, with that frankness that al-
ways characterized him, bluntly confessed
that, as his path home lay through a piece
of wolf-infested woods, he was afraid to go.
At which the farmers two buxom and bounc-
ing daughters volunteered to see Horace
home, and, their guardianship being accept-
ed, did actually accompany their guest to
the threshold of his own home.


A week conclusion—Saturday night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
				PARTING LINES.
TO MRS. HARRIET GRAY, OF PETERSBOROUGH, N.H.
		Fare you well, much honored mother; 
		Life and health your steps attend:
		God, our Father will protect you,
		As your homeward way you wend. 

		Fare you well, beloved Lady:
		Go in peace, and be thou blest.
		In the far off East, remember
		Those who love you, in the West.

		When you've filled your earthly mission
		And resigned your "dust to dust"
		You shall have abundant entrance
		Into mansions of the just.
							E.R. Snow.
SALT LAKE CITY, Aug. 2nd, 1874.


Returned.—Mrs. Harriet Gray, who re-
cently paid a visit to Utah, has returned
safely and in excellent health. Although in
her eighty-third year, she made the jour-
ney with ease and comfort, and speaks in
grateful terms of the courtesy and attention
everywhere shown her. She contemplates
a second visit when the temple at Salt Lake
City is completed. While at the City of the
Saints she was the guest of "Brother Brig-
ham." who spared no pains to make her
visit agreeable. Mr. James S. Gray who
continued the journey to California, has be-
come charmed with the golden State, and
proposes to return with his wife and spend
the winter in San Francisco.—Petersboro
Transcript.


For the EXPONENT. 

WOMAN, A SUBJECT.

BY BLANCHRE BEECHWOOD.

	The time was when women were held in
"small repute," inferior, subordinate, made
to feel so by custom and continual practice,
until they grew half ashamed of being
such.

	"And rudely wished to mother only boys;
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	

	Man looked askance, when someone old dame announced,
	The babe a girl, but flushed with pride, when told
	The ringing cry came from a lucky boy,
	And blessed the gods; when had it been a girl
	Had hardly deigned a smile."

	I must say I think those lines were sadly
"out of joint."
	New the "scene  is changed," from ocean 
to ocean woman and woman's rights, is re-
echoed. It is THE subject now in discussion.
Every fault of mankind has been directly
or indirectly attributed to women, until it
has become a by-word among men when any
starling or sensational catastrophe occurs;
"There's a woman at the bottom of the mis-
chief." Is it not time they took up the cud-
gel in their own defence? As sweethearts,
They have trifled with some innocent young
man's purely disinterested affection, causing 
his utter discumfiture and ultimate ruin; or
as wives, they have not borne insult, abuse,
or neglect, patiently and resignedly enough;
or as mothers, they have failed in doing
their whole and undivided duty, totally re-
gardless of all outward circumstances or in-
ward feeling. In fact, what right have they 
to feel at all? Man is lord, they are his pas-
sion or his toy, his cook or nurse as the case
may be; there can be no allowance made for 
them; if they fall, man is not to blame; how
could he be? How could this lord of crea-
tion have any weaknesses? It must have 
been his mother; he must have inherited
evil propensities from her. Has there been
an error or a fault committed since the days
of Eve's downfall, but is brought to bear
against the sex? Indeed so positive, adun-
dant and conclusive has been the evidence,
that women themselves have actually echo-
ed the refrain and convicted themselves.
	Woman's frailty, woman's vanity, woman's
extra vagance, these and a hundred other
similar subjects, are the inexhaustable topics
of the day. Her incapacity, her demerits,
all her weak points, brought out in the most 
unfavorable light to prove her inability to 
fill any but a home sphere; nature never de-
signed her for any other, SO SAYS THE VER-
DICT; and if she dares to overstep the pre-
scribed boundary, or pass the limit society 
has assigned her, woe be to her! She is for-
ever disenchanted; she has lost all true
womanly grace and purity, (almost her vir-
tue,) she is something to be shunned, she
must have been jilted, or soured by disap-
pointment, has been a neglected or forsaken
wife, or happless old maid, and so she would 
vent her ill-humorm or spleen by seeking no-
toriety. The responsibility of the whole
world of mankind, (according to these ideas)
rests upon her shoulders and those of her
sex, and yet she cannot raise her voice,
loosen her tongue, or send forth her opin-
ions and ideas to the world without con-
demnation.
	Men are afraid that if women are allowed
to mingle more freely, and their interests
become more closely associated with man's,
they will lose the peculiar charms of modes-
ty, grace and shyness, which particularly
characterize them, and constitute the strong-
est attraction (save beauty) which incites 
their admiration; that it will make them
coarse and bold, where heretofore they were
refined even to sensitiveness. But why
should not men assimilate themselves, to
this innocent and inherent refinement of
feeling and sentiment? God designed that
men should be as pure as women, their
bodies fit temples for the Holy Ghost to 
dwell in.
	Women untaught in their vast majority
for centuries, in many arts but those per-
taining to housekeeping, etc, are probably 
far less strong and deep than men, their
untrained mental processes and and conclusions
are necessarily swift and shallow as rule;
but the nature of womankind, more impul-
sive than that of man, relies more on intui-
tion than calculation: and though she may
not always have the large outlook upon the
universe, yet she inclines most to duty, and
childish and implicit obedience to God. She 
has quicker preceptions instead of hard,
cold reasoning; finer tone, purer thoughts
and greater faith; believes more in the effi-
cacy of prayer. How far woman's influence 
can be exerted, in bringing about the re-
demption of man, the future will prove;
that all her instincts, faculties and intelli-
gence will be called in question, that the
most torough mental training, calculated 
to develop all the latent strength and in-
crease the growth of intellect will be need-
ed for the cultivation of the highest and
holiest attributes implanted by the Deity,
who can doubt?
	Woman must be something more than a 
toy, or plaything, or fashion plate, or 
even household deity. She must become enlight-
ened on all points pertaining to life and its
purposes, not only how to bear and rear
children, but how to make them sphyically,
morally and mentally superior. Such knowl-
edge can never be obtained without some
exertion being made to educate women dif-
ferently, and to cultivate more fully their
higher powers of thought and understand-
ing. Neither will the Lord do for us the best of
our ability, every facult of our organiza-
tions: He gave them to us for this purpose,
not to be idle and rust, but to improve upon;
and whoever thinks the Lord will work mir-
acles for them, while they lie in idleness,
ease and luxury, regardless of his richest 
and best gifts, will assuredly meet with dis-
appointment.
	We must cultivate ourselves in the study
of human nature, its elements and devel-
opments; and when we properly understand
ourselves, we shall have more charity for 
others.
	We shall need to call up all the latent
forces within us, and cultivaate up all the latent
forces within us, and culivate them to the
very higest degree, in order even to assist
in the work of regeneration, of which we
talk so much, and with such an imperfect
understanding.
	"Strong-minded" women are the very
ones who will make the best aids and help-
meets for their husbands, competent to as-
sist, advise and sympathize; and if men
would interest themselves in helping to de-
velop woman's higher powers, instead of
placing almost instirmountable barriers to
hinder their progress, they would find it
much to their own advantage; and women
who are the most highly cultivated morally,
mentally and religiously, are the very ones
to do honor and reverence to men, who pos-
sess the noblest attributes and are nearest 
akin to God and Divinity.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 28th, 1874.


For the EXPONENT.
		TO THE GIRLS.
	My Dear Young Lady Friends:—I belong
to a Ward Retrenchment Association; but
as I am too bashful, or at least have not
power to stand up in meeting and express
my feelings and ideas in any way satisfac-
tory to myself, I have determined to give
you some of my thoughts through the EX-
PONENT, if our respected editor will kindly
permit me to do so.
	I think, then, that it is time every young
lady in our communities was seeking with
more diligence than has heretofore been
manifested, to improve herself in every
possible way, for Zion's sake as well as for
her individual good and consequent hap-
piness.
	It is a well known fact that the aim and
object of man's life, and woman's too, is to
obtain the greatest possible amount of hap-
piness, to secure enjoyment and pleasure.
So anxious are many to do this, that they
even accept those pleasures which, if they
would reflect, they would know must be but
momentary. Indeed, they will often grasp
those things which are only calculated to
bring pain and misery, believing that they
behold in them some beauty which may,
perchance, prove a present joy, and not
waiting to convince themselves that it may
or may not last forever; so full of haste are
they in their blind pursuit after pleasure.
	Another well established truth is that the
more intelligence that people possess, the
more enjoyment they are capable of receiv-
ing. I should think that this idea alone,
after a person has become conversant with
it, would be sufficient to awaken the strong-
est desire to obtain true wisdom and enlight-
enment. And it is, I am sure, with every
person of sense who will stop to consider.
I will try to illustrate the view I take of
this subject.
	Let us suppose that you and I enter a pic-
ture gallery. You have studied the art of 
painting and understand the nice points
connected therewith; such as harmony of
colors, arrangement of forms and all those
things. I have never given any attention


to them and do not know the difference be-
tween a good picture and a bad one. Of
course I would look with some degree of
pleasure on the beautiful works of the artist;
but your appreciation of them and delight
at beholding them, would far surpass any-
thing I could realize. You could almost see
the hand and eye of the artist at work in all
his fine touches, so well would you compre-
hend his objects and designs. While I might
be forgetful that the painting ever had a de-
signer or consummater—just as thoughtless,
indifferent people gaze upon the works of 
creation around them, forgetful that there
is a God.
	I believe it is, and will be the same with
us in relation to heavenly things. Unless
we study upon them and treasure up knowl-
edge concerning them, we never will be able
to appreciate and enjoy their glory and
magnanimity. Unless we learn to know
the will of the Lord concerning us, we can
not certainly know that we are living in ac-
cordance therewith. Unless we seek first
the kingdom of God and His righteousness
we have no promise of securing to ourselves
all these other good things which are so
much sought after and so desirable in the
sight of all. And I can testify, for a truth,
that I know for myself, for I have proven
though I am but young, that the safest and
only sure way of securing present comfort—
if we look no farther and say nothing of
eternal happiness—is by learning and keep-
ing the commandments of God. In them is
contained all that is necessary to make us
supremely wise; and true wisdom is the
only source of true happiness.
	TO THE EDITOR.—I am but a young be-
ginner, but knowing the charity which is
felt for the young ladies who seek to improve
themselves, by the elder sisters, I feel no
hesitancy in submitting this to your kind
consideration. When I have become a bet-
ter scholar and can write more intelligently,
you may publish my name; but for the pres-
ent, please call me 			GUESS WHO.


﻿WOMANS EXPONENT.


TO MOTHER.

	Yes mother you were tired; the day had
brought perplexing cares, and press of work,
and you were nervous. But your little
daughter had her troubles too, her sorrows
were as deep as she could bear; and before
she went to God, she came to you. She told
you of temptation which overpowered. She
had been conquered in the fight - for there
had been a fight— and she wanted confes-
sion and forgiveness, for her relief. How
did you fill her need? Forgetting yourself
did you enter into her feelings and give her
the help over the hard place, which will
bring her the next time to you with renew-
ed confidence that mother is the best friend,
even when sin has been committed—that
telling mother makes it easier to pray about?
Or did you forget the full table of forgive-
ness to which God has treated you, and deal
out to the hungry little one, the cold crums
of reproach and condemnation. God forgive
you, if you did,-and-help you set a better
table in future. God help you to keep a
cheery house in your heart for the children
in all their moods, in all their failings. Con-
sidering thyself, lest thou also be tempted
like them.—"The Christian at Work."


"Dear George said an Indianapolis young
woman, "I am willing to marry you if we
have to live on bread and water."
	"Well," said the enthusiastic George,
"you furnish the bread, and I'll skirmish
around and try and find the water."


THE DUTY OF WOMEN.
	It is the first duty of a woman to be a
lady. Good breeding is good sense. Bad
manners in woman is immorality. Awk-
wardness may be ineradicable. Bashful-
ness is constitutional. Ignorance of eti-
quette is the result of circumstances. All
can be condoned, and do not banish man or
woman from the amenities of their kind.
But self-possession, unshrinking and ag-
gressive coarseness of demeanor may be
reckoned as a State Prison offense, and cer-
tainly merits the mild form of restraint
called imprisonment for life. It is a shame
for women to be lectured on their manners.
It is a bitter shame that they need it. Wo-
men are the umpires of society. It is they
to whom all mooted points should be refer-
red. To be a lady is more than to be a 
princess. A lady is always in her right in-
alienably worthy of respect. To a dlay,
prince and peasant alike bow. Do not be
restrained. Do not have the impulses that
need restraint. Do not wish to dance with
the prince unsought. Feel indifferently.
Be such that you confer honor. Carry your-
self so lofty that men will look up to you for
reward, not at you in rebuke. The natural
sentiment of man toward woman is rever-
ence. He looses a large means of grace
when he is obliged to account her a being
to be trained into propriety. A man's idea
is not wounded when a woman fails in
worldly wisdom, but if in grace, in senti-
ment, in delicacy, in kindness, she should
be found wanting, he receives an inward
hurt.—[Gail Hamilton.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	LADY Marian Alford has laid the foun-
dation stone of St. John the Evangelist,
in Holborn England.
	MISS Mary Gray Retray has left a legacy
of 300l. to the Charity Organization So-
ciety of Great Britian.
	QUEEN Victoria has asked for an allow-
ance of $75,000 a year for her youngest son,
Prince Leopold, and after a little snarl the
House of Commons granted it.
	THE New York daily papers announce the
death of Mary Talcott, aged 77 years, who
is described as having been for sixty years a
most faithful servant of the late Governor
Van Ness.
	MISS Mitchell, Professor of Astronomy in
Vassar College, is going to give a course of
lectures on her favorite science, at Gothic
Hall Boarding School in Stanford Ct., dur-
ing the coming school year.
	MISS Mary Ellis, formerly Acting Princi-
pal of Mt. Holyoke Seminary, who has
been touring in Greece, Palestine and
Egypt since her connection with Mrs.
Gould's school at Rome, takes the position
of Lady Principal in Iowa College.
	THE famous Mrs. Ann Hutchinson, whose
religious notions and teachings caused such
consternation and excitement in the infant
settlement of Massachusetts in 1638, became
first known, trusted and warmly loved there,
because of her freely rendered offices of care
and skill to the sick of her own sex. 
	MISS Carrie J. Dresser, a teacher of ex-
perience, has achieved a success in the con-
servative town of Fitchburg. The charge
of the grammer school there, hitherto pre-
sided over exclusively by gentlemen, has
been given her, and she is to receive equal
remuneration for equal service. 
	MRS. Scott, of Hope College, Michigan,
wanted a dose of citrate of potash, and took
strychnine by mistake. As soon as she be-
came aware of the mistake she swallowed a
glass of milk and some mustard, and sent
for a physician, who administered powerful
emetics, and saved her life. 
	FORTY of the Rev. George Wheeler's
parishioners at Concord, Mass., both men
and women, cut, cured and got in fifteen
acres of his grass in one day, recently, and
the champion of the crowd was Miss Emma
Wheeler of Providence R.I., who mowed a
wide swath twenty-five rods long, which
handsomely beat every man present.
	THE young Empress of Japan has visited
the boys' and girls' colleges and schools
which her empire contains. She has been
present at the lessons and distributed re-
wards to the pupils. It seems also that she
has refused to shave her eye-brows and to
blacken her teeth, a duty which is expected
of every married lady in Japan. She also
wears English shoes, drives in coupes, &c. 
	IN the western corner of the old burial
ground in Charlston is a solid and well-
wrought slate monument, erected more than
a century and a half ago, to the memory of
a notable woman "who was ordained and
commissioned by the Lord Bishop of Lon-
don to act as mid-wife in His Majesty's Pro-
vince of Massachusetts Bay." The original
inscription probably credited her with
"1300" babies as the trophies of her skill;
but some rougish hand hid in the grass has
interpolated two ciphers in the broad spread
characters of the inscription, so that it reads
"130,000 children."


﻿Names of countries.—Europe signifies
a country of white complexions; so named
because the inhabitants there were of light-
er complexion than those of either Asia or
Africa. Africa signifies the land of corn, or
ears. It was celebrated for its abundance of
corn and all kinds of grain. Spain, a coun-
try of rabbits, or conies. This country was
once so infested with these animals that the
inhabitants petitioned Augustus for an
army to destroy them. Italy, a country of
pitch; from its yielding great quantities of
pitch. Gaul, modern France, signifies yel-
low-haired; as yellow hair characterized its
first inhabitants. Britain, the country of
tin, as there were great quantities of lead
and tin found on the adjacent islands. The
Greeks called it Albion, which signifies
either white or high mountains, from the
whiteness of its shores, or the high rocks on
the western shores.


How obsequious is the lover to every wish
and look at her he loves! He is all devo-
tion, all affection—in fact the very embodi-
ment of passionate ardor. Alas! how few
husbands continue to be the lover! Even
though love itself may still exist, it is shut
up so closely in the heart that it loses its
wings and no longer soars. Those little
kindnesses, those little delicacies of attention
which are not much in themselves, yet, after
all, do much in making up the sum of hu-
man happiness, and of which the lover was
so lavish, are only too often forgotten or neg-
lected by the husband. Day by day he be-
comes more absorbed in business, and the
turbid stream bears him farther and farther
away from the romance of his youth. He
forgets that she who sits by his fireside was
once a blooming rose, and he sees not what
others can plainly see—that she is drooping
like a neglected flower.

----
How obsequious, is the lover to every wash.
and look of her he loves! He is all devo-
tion, all affection—in fact the .very embpdi-
ment of passionate ardor. Alas! how few
husbands continue to be the lover! Even
though love itself may still exist, it is shut
up so closely in the heart that it loses its
wings and no longer soars. Those little
kindnesses,those little delicacies of attention
which are not much in themselves, yet,after
all, do much in making up the sum of hu-
man happiness, and of which the lover was
so laveish, are only too often forgotten or neg-
lected by the husband. Day by day he be-
comes more absorbed in business, and the
turbid stream bears him farther and farther
away from the romance of his youth. He
forgets that she who sits by his fireside was
once a blooming rose, and he sees not what
others can plainly see—that she is drooping
like a neglected flower.
----
	How obsequious is the lover to every wish
and look of her he loves! He is all devo-
tion, all affection--in fact the very embodi-
ment of passionate ardor. Alas! how few
husbands continue to be the lover! Even
though love itself may still exist, it is shut
up so closely in the heart that it loses its
wings and no longer soars. Those little
kindnesses, those little delicacies of attention
which are not much in themselves, yet, after
all, do much in making up the sum of hu-
man happiness, and of which the lover was
so lavish, are only too often forgotten or neg-
lected by the husband. Day by day he be-
comes more absorbed in business, and the
turbid stream bears him farther and farther
away from the romance of his youth. He
forgets that she who sits by his fireside was
once a blooming rose, and he sees not what
others can plainly see--that she is drooping
like a neglected flower.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1, 1874.


SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	Laura Honey Stevenson has been singing
at the theatre, and her voice is accounted
as sweet and luxurious as her name indicates
......A new paper has been started in this
city, the name of which is the Utah "Scan-
dinave." It is published in three languages,
the Swedish, Danish and English...... Three
hundred and sixty woolen spindles and
five hundred and forty cotton spindles are
worked in the Beaver woolen and cotton fac-
tory......Sixteen prizes were awarded by the
committee on horses at the late stock fair
......Literary societies in the different wards
are re-opening for the winter, and electing
their officers......A woman in this city sepa-
rated from her husband, hired out to do
house-work, broke her engagement with
her employers and got married again, all
within a week. No "slow and easy" about
her...... Nineteen indictments were lately
reported in one day by the Grand Jury in
this city. The Court won't be out of work
for some time...... Since the close of the fall
Conference, Sunday services have been dis-
continued for the winter at the Tabernacle,
and afternoon and evening meetings are
held in the several wards.
			POLITICAL
	Ohio Democrats have lately elected a
judge of the State Supreme Court, for the
first time, in more than twenty years...... In
Connecticut, towns of more than five thou-
sand inhabitants are to be allowed two rep-
resentatives in the Legislature...... New
Mexico has instructed her Congressional
delegate to accept the proposition made by
several senators to unite the Territories,
Arizona and New Mexico...... At pres-
ent, a war between Japan and China seems
inevitable...... The government of Uruguay,
South America, will issue four million
dollars of paper money..... Election excite-
ment has been running high all over the
country but is partially subsiding..... The
Legislature of Vermont has elected Geo. F.
Edmunds for United States Senator for six
years from next March......Indiana elects a 
Democrat to the State Senate over a Repub-
lican by a majority of one...... It is reported
that Grant is tired of the talk about the
"Third term," and will refuse to run for the
Presidency again.
			LITERARY.
	The Stockton "Leader," Laura DeForce
Gordon's lively little journal, has entered
its second year. Success to it..... The young
ladies of the Collegiate Institute of Pough-
keepsie, N. Y., publish a paper called the
"Tyro." A most appropriate name for a
school journal...... A new illustrated Parisian
paper is announced entitled, "The Journal
of Young Mo hers," which will treat of the
health of infants, modes of caring for them,
their clothing, &c...... "Sketches of Illustri-
ous Soldiers" is the name of a new book, by
James Grant Wilson, which will probably
become popular...... A "Woman's Peace So
ciety," of London, offers $100 for the best
tract written by a woman on the subject of
peace..... Abba Gould Woolson is editing a
book on Dress Reform..... "Moore's Rural
New Yorker" is twenty-five years old.


THE women of New Jersey were enfran-
chised from 1776 until 1807, a period of thir-
ty-one years. The right to vote has since
that time been unlawfully and unjustly
withheld from the women citizens of Amer-
ica, with the exceptions of Wyoming
and Utah during the last few years.


OBITUARY.
	Died, in this city, at her residence in the
14th Ward, at 8 P. M., on the 25th inst.,
Eleanor Jane Pratt, wife of the late Elder
Parley P. Pratt, in the fifty-seventh year of
her age.
	Sister Pratt was born in Wheeling, Va.,
on the 29th of December, A. D. 1818. Was
baptized into the church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in San Francisco by Elder
McBride, May 23rd, in the year 1854. Since
which time she has been known as a woman
of integrity and much zeal in the cause
of truth, a faithful and true Latter-day
Saint to the end of her mortal career.
	"Blessed are the dead who die in the
Lord, for they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them."
	Sister Eleanor emigrated to this city in
1855, 19 years ago. Since that period the
writer has been intimately acquainted with
her. She was a woman of sorrow; well
acquinted with grief. Of her it can be tru-
ly said, "She came up through much tribu-
lation."
	She taught school on Thursday, and pre-
pared her breakfast Friday morning. After
which she was suddenly taken with ap-
oplexy; sent for Bishop Taylor, conversed
freely with him in regard to her business
affairs, leaving everything in his charge;
he administered to her and she went to bed
and sank into a deep sleep from which she
never awoke in mortality. But she awakes
in the world of spirits, clothed in white
robes, with palms of victory in her hands,
where with the blest she can shout, "Oh
death where is thy sting! oh grave where
is thy victory!"			W. E.


COURTING.
	With more than ordinary interest we have
watched for some time past the proceedings of
United States officials in this Territory. And
some of them, we conclude, have hearts and
minds of sufficient magnitude to enable them
to court any body and every body; no matter
who, provided they can steal a chance where
there is a prospect of something to be gained.
	Whether their purpose is to amuse the people
in general, or to instruct them concerning par-
ticular duties and privileges, is not clearly de-
monstrated by their acts. But certain it is,
that the constant diatribe which they carry on
against the leading men in the communities,
is not calculated to engender a spirit of peace,
or to bring enlightenment to the minds of the
people.
	The query might well be propounded, what
is their business? Are they in the midst of
the people to preserve the peace, or as disturb-
ers of the same? If the former, they and their
assigners have mistaken their abilities. The
peace and good feelings which existed among


the people in Utah, prior to the interception of
out-side influences prominent among which
may be marked the doings of certain govern-
ment appointees, have been greatly disturbed
rather than increased by the subjugation
which these individuals have attempted. Yet,
from the official appellations by which they are
known, it would be supposed that they are
placed among the people as guardians of their
rights, arbitrators by whom the peace would 
be most heartily sustained, instead of watch-
ers for iniquity, to stir up strife and create
troubles that they may have causes of offense
to examine and judge. But the people can only
continue to watch patiently for final results.


﻿THE BOYS.
	Do their mothers know where they are or
what company they keep? A great crowd of
them, mostly small ones, gathered on the
street in front of the city market, on Saturday
last, while a large herd of cattle was going
past. Some of the little fellows ran heedlessly
in amongst the stock which was jaming, crowd-
ing and hurrying along, as if realizing no dan-
ger, until one of them was struck and knocked
down by the foot of a horse upon which one of
the cattle drivers rode. Fortunately, the boys
all scampered out of the way then, and no fur-
ther mischief was done. The one that was
struck limped a little, but showed no signs of
having been seriously hurt. He has kind
Providence to thank, however, that he was not
trampled to death in the midst of the rushing
herd.


DON'T TRIFLE.
	It is a trite fact that to ensure success in any
kind of business, business must be done meth-
odically, and thoroughly, with perseverance
and care. That incompleteness and mistakes
are occasioned by neglect or inattention. In
the least as well as the greater concerns of life,
this rule is unexceptionable; and much of the
prosperity and happiness of mankind depend
upon a strict observance of the same.
	Not only in the transacting of business be-
tween man and man, the forming of contracts
and making plans pertaining to worldly af-
fairs should this system of thorough complete-
ness be constantly kept in view. But upon
the same basis must all true religious princi-
ples be founded. In order to gain that full and
perfect salvation for which the saints are ac-
customed to pray, it is most essential for them
to live perfect lives so far as their knowledge
extends. Neglecting a known duty here or
there, and yielding to this or that trifling yet
forbidden indulgence, will, sooner or later
grieve away the chaste and sensitive spirit
which leads unto peace and happiness and joy
most exquisite and eternal. Just as slight
omissions and little extravagancies and irreg-
ularities in connection with things of mortal-
ity, are followed by financial losses and fail-
ures.


AIR.
	Pure, fresh air for the children, is one of the
best producers of pure, good blood, from which
may be built up a healthy system. The desire
to be out of doors, even in cold, stormy, disa-
greeable weather, is natural with children.
The little being instinctively calls for free, full
inspiration; and it has a native right to the
same. Parents, teachers or guardians have no
just right to shut out from the children the
fresh, sweet air and the glad light of heaven.


O! let homes be made with large, comfortable,
light and airy rooms, so that the little ones
need not be kept in suffocating gloom, even
when they must be kept in. And let them be
so much accustomed to free, pure ventilation,
and so well habited in times of uncertain
weather that there will be no fear of their
"taking cold," and  sickness being entailed,
should they happen to be out of doors when a
little wind arises.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	Thursday, the 26th inst., has been designa-
ted by President Grant as the day to be ob-
served as a National Thanksgiving day.
	A slight fall of snow, the first of the season,
appeared on the 28th ult., in this valley, as if
to remind the inhabitants that winter was ap-
proaching, and hasten them to make ready
for it.
	The time of year has again arrived,
when the labors of the Relief Societies can be
best appreciated, by the needy ones whose
homes are gladdened by cheery visits and still
more comforting offerings.
	President Brigham Young and company
started for his winter home in St. George on
the 29th ult. His health, though still feeble,
is improving, and he journeys with care and
prudence, attended by the good wishes and
faith of many thousands, for his perfect recov-
ery and prolonged life.
	MRS. Nelson of Tooele is the first woman
in the Territory, we believe, who has been in-
dicted by our U.S. officials. She is a foreigner
by birth and has been arrested upon a charge
of illegal voting at the August election. As her
husband though a foreigner claims to be natu-
ralized, it appears that women as well as men
who were born aliens, must be naturalized in
order to become legal voters, according to the
views of some of our officials.
	All the stock specimens exhibited at the
late Stock Fair were of rare quality, and the
whole affair was a satisfactory one; as the Des-
erest Agricultural and Manufacturing Society
have always managed to bring before the pub-
lic when they have attempted anything of the
kind. Four lady equestrians took part in the
races; namely Mrs. R. W. Wilson, Miss Edith
Clawson, Mrs. Joseph A. Young, and Mrs. B.
H. Young. A prize was awarded each one. 
	Among others, Hon. George Q. Cannon
has again been indicted for alleged "lascivious
cohabitation," and placed under bail of five
thousand dollars. How long such persecutions
of the Saints will go on it is impossible to
judge; but it does appear that none but
the most bigoted enemies of peace would per-
severe in repeating such allegations, in the face
of the decision rendered by the Supreme Court
of the United States in '72.


For the EXPONENT.
		DON'T LET TALENT RUST.
	As by constant friction steel is kept highly
polished, so by constant exercise is talent
ever at its brightest. All our powers grow
by use. If we neglect to cultivate the habit
of observation, we might as well walk
through the world blindfolded. We lose
our faculty—what artists call our "touch"—
by neglect of practice on other things be-
sides the piano. The man who seldom
reads, reads slowly; the woman whose
writing is confined to an unfrequent letter
to some absent child spends more time
over that than does a practical writer over
a dozen pages of manuscript. Exercise of


possessed talent is absolutely necessary,
then if we would retain our gifts. For ex-
ample: if our occupation is sedentary, we
need plans for walks, rides and active games
to keep our muscles lithe and serviceable.
But if our employment gives us enough
muscular action, it is not one whit less im-
portant to our health of body that we should
plan for mental exercise—for employment
enough of our memory and our reasoning
powers to keep them from rusting. And, in
either case, that life must be a dwarfed and
unhealthy one that does not provide exer-
cise for our spiritual faculties—for worship,
and charity, and patience, and magnanim-
ity. Exercise of soul, mind and body can
alone bring us to the stature of the perfect
man.


LITTLE FOLKS.
	AT Alton Ill., a preacher asked all Sunday
Scholars to stand up who intended to visit
the wicked, soul-destroying circus. All but
a lame girl stood up.
	"WHAT'S the matter with you my pet?"
"O, aunty! I went to touch a little chickey,
and the old hen growled at me and bit me
with her nose!"
	"Is your dad at home?" asked a neighbor
man of a very little boy. The urchin eyed
the inquirer sharply a moment, and then
cooly replied, "I've got a father."
	A FOUR year old girl having been reproved
by her mother for revenging an offence by
"making faces," when next offended cutely
said, "I'll go behind your chair and make a
face."
	A LITTLE one had made a mis-step and fal
len upon the floor, and was asked, "Are you
much hurt?" "Yes!" "It hasn't laid you
up I hope." "No—it's laid me down 
though."
	HARRY, after looking on while his new
little sister cried at being washed and dress-
ed, turned away, saying, "If she screamed
like this up in heaven, I don't wonder they
sent her off."
	"WHAT ails that boy's eye?" asked a
small boy of his larger sister. "He's blind,"
answered the girl, "he put his eye out with 
an awl." "Oh!" exclaimed the little fellow,
"why didn't he take the awl and put his eye
in again?"
	DURING the recent flood in Middlefield,
N.Y., a little five year old boy, when the
water had reached the height of two or
three feet around the house in which he
was, fell upon his knees and uttered the
following prayer: "O, Lord I don't like this;
take it away. You said when you set your
bow in the skies you would have no more
floods. Now, how is this? Amen."
	A PRIEST who was examining a confirma-
tion class in the south of Ireland, asked the
question: "What is the sacrament of matri
mony?" A little girl at the head of the
class answered, "'Tis a state of torment into
which souls enter to prepare them for an-
other and better world." "Being," said the
priest, "the answer for purgatory."—"Put
her down," says the curate, "put her down
to the fut of the class." "Lave her alone,"
said the priest, "for anything you or I
know to the contrary, she may be perfectly
right."


About 18,700 letters were posted in Eng-
land last year without any address whatever,
and nearly five hundred of the letters con-
tained cash, checks, or bills of exchange to
the value of more than $13,000.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A WOMAN 111 years old lives in Fring,
England. During the harvest, last year,
she cut several sheaves of wheat, and in-
tends to do so again next year, if she is
alive and well at harvest time.
	A tablet in memory of Mrs. Alfred
Gatty has been placed in Ecclesfield Church,
the funds for which have been raised by
sixpenny subscriptions of 1000 readers of
Aunt Judy's Magazine, of which she was
the editress.
	Co-education of the sexes, at Alfred N.
Y., has been in successful practice for 37
years. The school began with 36 pupils, and
for years had the trying experience of all
indigent institutions. It now averages 450
students annually, having had about 7000
matriculates of a nearly equal number of
men and women. The average ages
have been respectively 20 and 18; time of
attendance about two years. The average
scholarship of the ladies has been two per
cent. better than of the gentlemen. In the
lower branches the sexes have been equally
represented; but in the higher, especially
classics, gentlemen have predominated, the
course being elective. The death rate has
been 10.6 of 1 per cent. of males, and 7.8 of
females. or 2.8. of 1 per cent. in favor of
women.


THE FUTURE.
	Since the Democratic politicians have, as ap-
pears, generally sided with the liquor interests and
against the women, the probability is that the line
drawn between the parties of the near future will
be on one side Woman Suffrage and Temperance,
on the other side the liquor interest and the Dem-
ocracy. While it is true that the crusade move-
ment has not been that which the Woman Suffra-
gists unite in, for they prefer law to its violation,
and are laboring for recognition under the law,
not for aggression without law; yet it appears la-
mentably true, that the Democratic party and the
liquor interests combining with that party have
braced themselves against yielding to women their
political rights. The absurdity of this in the first
place is its most remarkable feature; differances of
opinion feelings and modes of action exist as
prominently among women as among men; all wo-
men cannot be classified as of one view on matters
of public policy any more than of religion; neither
can one class of women be representative of all
any more than the same among men.
	Women have as true individuality, and possibly
more so than men; they certainly have than poli-
ticians. Inasmuch as the views of women deffer
on the crusade movement, so do they also differ on
the question of prohibition or no prohibition li-
cense or no license. These are matters of judg-
ment. Temperance or intemperence is a question
of morality. If such a thing is ever possible as
purity in a political party, then will the watch-
word be, "Do justice though the skies fall." The
women demand the franchise on the broad ground
of justice, not for any single aim or the further-
ance of any side issue. They demand it for self-
protection. They demand it as a right which no
man or party of men have a right to withhold
from them. The question of how will they vote
has no place at all in the proposition. They will
vote just as men vote, according to their well-di-
gested views, but probably with more principle.
But one thing is certain, their votes will never be
bought with a drink of whisky or a glass of ale,
and their principles will not be conveniently elas-
tic as those of male politicians. The chances are
that the votes of the women will be on the side
of good order, whatever that may be, and if the
Democracy object to that the hurt in the long run
is to them and not to the women.—Toledo Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUNSHINE.
		BY M. L. BRINE
There's plenty of sunshine to spare for us all,
Then into our lives let us take it:
The world, though brimful of the glorious light
Can be dark, if we choose so to make it.
We must open our hearts, let the sunlight pour in
And light up the dark, dreary places;
With sunshine without and sunshine within,
Nevermore shall we see gloomy faces.

We should seek out the lives that are gloomy and sad,
Where sunshine perchance hath ne'er entered,
And give to them freely from our brimming cup,
Where sunshine and peace have long centered.
Oh! all the world over there's light for us all,
Then into our lives let us take it.
The world, though brimful of the glorious light,
Can be dark, if we choose so to make it.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Economy.—In making gored dresses, plenty of
pieces are left to bind the bottom, especially in
solid colors.—Z. D. Y. 
	To Restore Dim Writing.—Dim writing, nearly
effaced by age, may be restored by the application
of a solution of prussiate of potash and water.
Wash the parts with a hair pencil, and the writing
will appear if the paper has not been destroyed. 
	Looking Glasses spoiled by Sunshine.—It does
not seem to be generally understood that the amal-
gam of tin-foil with mercury, which is spread on
glass plates to make looking-glasses, is very readily
crystalized by actinic solar rays. A mirror hung
where the sun can shine on it is usually spoiled; it
takes a granulated appearance familiar with house-
keepers, though they may not be acquainted with
the cause of the change. In such a state  the ar-
ticle is nearly worthless, the continuity of the sur-
face is destroyed and it will not reflect outlines with
any approach to precision.	
	To Cook Dry Field Peas.—Wash the peas and
soak them over night in cold water. Put them on
next morning to parboil in fresh water and let them
boil half an hour, adding one-fourth teaspoonful of
saleratus to one gallon of peas; then pour off the
water and rinse them thoroughly in two waters,
that every particle of alkali may be removed; then
put on to boil again, adding pork or beef for seas-
oning.  They generally require to be cooked slowly
three or four hours. After being boiled until per-
fectly tender, they are sometimes baked, as beans,
in a slow oven.
	Removing Grease Spots.—In taking out grease
from clothing with benzole or turpentine, people
generally make the mistake of wetting the cloth
with the turpentine and then rubbing it with a
piece of sponge or cloth. In this way the fat is
dissolved, but is spread over a greater space and is
not removed; the benzole or turpentine evaporates,
and the fat covers a greater distance than before.
The only way to remove grease-spots is to place
soft blotting-paper beneath and on top of the spot
which is to be first thoroughly saturated with the
benzole and then well pressed. The fat is then
dissolved and absorbed by the paper, and entirely
removed from the clothing.
	To get rid of Insects.—Take two pounds of alum
and dissolve in three or four quarts of boiling wa-
ter; let it stand on the fire till the alum disappears;
then apply it with a brush, while nearly boiling
hot to every crevice in in your closets, bedsteads,
pantry-shelves, and the like. Brush the crevices
in the floor of the skirting or mop-boards, if you
suspect they harbor vermin. If, in whitewashing
a ceiling, plenty of alum is added to the lime, it
will also serve to keep insects at a distance. Cock-
roaches will flee the paint that has been washed in
cool alum water. Sugar barrels and boxes can be
freed from ants by drawing a chalk mark, just
round the edge of the top of them. The mark
must be unbroken or they will creep over it; but a
continuous chalk mark half an inch in width will
set their depredations at naught. Powdered alum


or borax will keep the chintz bugs at a respectable
distance, and travelers should always carry a pack-
age in their hand bags, to scatter over and un-
der their pillows where they have reason to sus-
pect the presence of such bed-fellows.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
				For the EXPONENT.
	For Chillblains.—Oxgall, olive oil or
coal oil, spirits of turpentine and camphor,
equal parts.
	Cancers.—When a cancer first appears,
it may be killed by the application of oil of
winter-green. It is also good to take a
little of the oil internally.
	For Burns.—Never forget salt for burns.
If the skin is broken, put a piece of thin
cloth over the flesh before putting on the
salt, and drip a little water on occasionally.
	To harden tender feet.—Strong brine
or salt and water is an excellent thing for
hardening tender feet. It is also good for
sponge bath, as it invigorates the whole sys-
tem. A swallow of salt and water in the
morning is good to prevent sick head ache.
	For sudden Deafness.—Syringe the ear
with warm milk and water increasing the
heat as you can bear, it some five or six
times; then with a smooth tweezer bole or
something of the kind, remove whatever
has accumulated. This often gives instant
relief.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.
	Ethnology in hair.—Advantage is
being taken of the structure of human hair
to determine the different races of man-
kind. The hair of the North American In-
dian is cylindrical or round; that of the
white race is oval; and that of the negro is
eccentrically eliptical, a kind of flattened
oval. The oval hair has a greater number
of fibers on the sides, this condition
gives the tendency to curl or curve in that
direction. Cylindrical hair, such as that of
our Indians is equal on all sides, hence, its
lank, straight condition, as there is no ten-
dency to stretching or shrinking; it appears
that when this kind of hair is passed be-
tween rollers, so as to flatten it, it instantly
curls!
	Now, as the cylindrical hair is a type of
all natives of the continent of America,
that is to say of the purely aboriginals; and,
as the hair of the ancient inhabitants is also
proved to be cylindrical it is infered that our
Indians are the descendents of the ancient
Peruvians and their brethren.
	This is interesting to us, to whom the
records of the ancient inhabitants of this
continent are accessible and believed in as
a history; and is only one among the many
means being used to connect the present
with the past inhabitants of this great con-
tinent.
					For the EXPONENT
	The Transit of Venus.—This event is
of such immense importance to the scien-
tific world, that no less than thirty suitable
stations have been chosen for observation.
The United States, Great Britain, France,
Germany, and Russia vie with each other in
the pursuit of knowledge that will, it is to
be hoped, determine the exact distance
of the sun from the earth.
	Halley, the great astronomer, was the
first to point out the application of the tran-
sit of Venus across the sun's disk as a means
of ascertaining correctly the solar distance.
The next transit occurs on the 8th of Decem-
ber of the present year, when observations


will be made by the most skillful scientists,
aided by instruments of the most approved
construction.
	The last transit of this planet that was
visible from the earth, occured in 1769;
after this year, the next that will be seen
will be in the year 2004. As the present
transit will occur in the winter, observations
will have to be made south of the equator.
The problem is to obtain, by angular meas-
urement, two sides of a triangle which be-
ing known will enable the third side to be
determined


AN INCIDENT IN THE CARS.
	On the whole pleasant traits of character
are not common in the cars. This opinion I
expressed to my friend Summers the other day.
In reply to my remarks he related a little ad-
venture, which, as it is apropos, and moreover,
involves a little love and sentiment, I give it
without apology, and in his own words. It ap-
pears that in the most unlikely places, love and
sentiment may be discovered.
	"I was escorting home the lovely Charlotte
—, to whom at that time I was quite devot-
ed. Charlotte could scarcely find room to
spread her crinoline and arrange her volumin-
ous flounces. I stood up near her there being
no vacant seat.
	After a few minutes, a poor woman came in,
who deposited a basket of clothes on the front
platform, and held in her arms a small child
while a little girl clung to her arms. She
looked tired and weary, but there was no va-
cant seat; to be sure Charlotte might have
condescended to contract her flounces but she
did not. Beside her, however, sat a very
lovely and elegant young woman, who seemed
trying, by moving down closer to others, to
make space enough for the stranger between
herself and Miss D—. At last she succeeded,
and with the sweetest blush I ever saw she in-
vited the poor female to be seated. Charlotte
D— drew her drapery around her and blush-
ed, too, but it was not a pretty blush at all and
she looked annoyed at the proximity of the
new comer, who was clean and decently though
thinly clad.
	The unknown lady drew the little girl upon
her lap, and wrapped her velvet mantle around
the small half clad form, and put her muff over
the half-frozen little hands.
	So great was the crowd that I alone seemed
to observe. The child shivered--the keen wind
from the door blew upon her unprotected neck.
I saw the young lady quietly draw from under
her mantle a little woolen shawl which she
softly put on the shoulders of the little one;
the mother looked on with confused wonder.
After a short time she arose to leave the cars,
and would have removed the shawl, but the
unknown gently whispered, 'No, keep it for
her.' The woman did not answer, the conduc-
tor hurried her out, but her eyes swam with
tears. I noticed her as she descended to a base-
ment, and I hastily marked the house.
	Soon after my unknown also rose to depart.
I was in despair, for I wanted to follow and
discover her residence, but could not leave
Miss D—.
	How glad, then, I was to see her bowing, as
she passed out, to a mutual acquaintance who
stood in the doorway. From him, ere many
minutes, I learned her name and address.
	To shorten the story as much as possible, that
lady is now my wife. In the small incident
which introduced her to me, she showed her
real character. A few days after our marriage
I showed her the blessed crimson shawl, which
I redeemed from its owner, and shall keep as
a memento. There are sometimes pleasant
things to be found in unexpected places; cer-
tainly I may be said to have picked out my
wife in the cars."--"Baltimore Review."


SEVEN hundred female telegraphists are
employed in the central London postoffice.
Their wages vary from 14s. to 16s. a week.
	A BOAT voyage with a kite as the
motive power is to be attempted from
Bridgeport, Ct., to New York City. The
kite is 12 by 20 feet, and will take a boat
containing three persons.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BOSTON SEWING GIRLS
THEIR PITIFUL LIFE DESCRIBED BY ONE
		WHO HAS FELT IT.
	The following was related by a lady of
good sense, as the result of her personal ex-
perience and observation among the sewing
girls of one of the large firms in Boston:
	When I first came here to Boston I did
not have quite as much money as I wanted,
and so thought I would just go down to
——, and take my sewing machine and
see what I could do at that work. I didn't
need to do it particularly, because I could
earn more money at taking care of the sick,
and, besides, I was more used to it; but I
went more than half to see how the girls
worked and got paid and were treated. So
I took my machine and started—I had to
pay for having it carried up stairs, and to
climb so many flights that when I arrived, I
was not fit to run a machine for half an hour.
	Well, I supposed, of course I should earn
as much as a dollar and a half a day—I did
not want to raise my expectations, so put it,
as I thought, low,—and thought, perhaps,
after I got used to it I should earn more.
They gave me a linen suit to make up; the
stitching, bands, ruffles, cuffs, and collar, all
to be finished complete for sale, and the wo-
man said to me (seeing probably that I
looked as if I knew how to sew) "I suppose
you can make two of these in a day." I
am pretty used to sewing, was a dressmaker
when I was first married, but that rather
surprised me—two in a day! Well, I
thought, of course I shall get two dollars or
more for them, and that will be doing pret-
ty well. I made that one suit in a day, and
how much do you suppose I was paid for it?
Seventy cents!
	And there were seventy-five girls or more
in that room, some young and pretty, many
with no homes, and with their board to pay
out of seventy cents a day.
	None of them could make more than that,
and many were wholly inexperienced, so
made much less. The second day I was
there they gave me a white wrapper to 
make, with insertion stitched in, and hems
and tucks, and that took me a day and a
half, and I had for it ninety cents, while a
white suit covered with ruffles and inser-
tion, which took me three days, brought the
enormous price of $1.50. then the fore-
woman—and it does seem as if they were
always selected for their hardness of heart
—gave the work merely cut out, no putting
together or showing how it should be done.
	And these poor girls, many of whom had
never even made their own clothes, had to
put these suits together as best they could,
often taking the best part of the day, and if
any mistake were made it had to be correct-
ed, and the work was not paid for when
made wrong, or part was deducted. One 
day one of the new girls came crying back
to the work room; she had finished the suit
and put the sleeves in wrong, (there was no
possible way for an inexperienced girl to
tell how to do it,) and she had them to rip
out and put in again. It made my heart
ache to see her cry. I thought of my own
little girl, and I put down my work and
helped her to do it, and showed her so she
would not make the mistake again.
	Then I told her to bring every garment to
me, and I would tell her how to put it to-
gether, and after a while all the girls did so,
and I helped them all and tried to encour-
age them.  "You won't earn much in that
way," said the forewoman to me. "I don't
care," said I.  "I suppose if I worked stead-
ily all day I could make two suits, for I 
knew how they should go together, but I
can't be selfish when I see these girls work-
ing so blindly and earning so little, and after
all getting it wrong."
	Well, I couldn't stand it long; climbing
all those stairs, working like a mill horse all
day, made me so weak that I had to give it
up.
	But that is the way the sewing girls live,
(and in one store in the city, their pay is
less.)  Truly, as one of them said, "they
earn nothing and find themselves." Then
they sit, all day long, sewing, sewing, wear-
ing themselves out, ruining health, and per-
haps, after all their efforts driven to wrong
from sheer disgust at the fruits of doing
right.  I remember two very pretty girls
who had worked there long and faithfully.
	One of them said to me one day: "We
won't stand this any longer. We can make
more money and not work so hard, and we
mean to do it." "How?" said I. "Oh,
never mind how," one answered. I thought
in a minute how they were tempted, and 
talked to them long and seriously, but oh
dear! oh dear! if our fine ladies only knew
how the life-blood, happiness and honor of
many a young girl is stitched away with 
their ruffles and hems, they would be more
merciful to their fallen sisters.
	And then I suppose, this morning, both mem-
bers of the firm have gone to church, and
devoutly prayed for forgiveness of their sins,
and listened to the prayer for fallen women,
and never thought or cared how many of
these have cried for mercy at their door. It
makes my heart ache to talk about it! You
may talk about woman suffrage, and you
may talk about dress reform, I will go for
anything and fight for anything that will
give these girls a chance to become good
women, and get fair wages for their work.
—"Homestead."


INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.
	Professor Cairnes, says in reply to Pro-
fessor Goldwin Smith's argument against
"Woman Suffrage."
	Vermont boasts a host of smart old ladies,
among whom the following are named:
Hannah Bowen of Bethel, aged ninty-two,
wife of S. Bowen, is holding her own with
the other young folks at picking hops, hav-
ing worked several days this season in the
field. Brandon has a Mrs. Jusrus Hyatt,
aged eighty-two years, who walked from
her residence, a few days ago, to Leicester,
a distance of six miles, and then wanted to
walk back the same day. Vershire boasts of
Mrs. Lucas Hinkley, who is ninety-two
years of age and has been spinning at sev-
eral different places. In one place she spun
twenty knots a day, and knit a large mitten
every day, for eighty days in succession.
	As a rule there exist no living descend-
ants in the male line, from the great au-
thors, artists, statesmen, soldiers of England.
There is no such descendant of Chaucer,
Shakespeare, Spenser, Butler, Dryden, Pope,
Cowper, Goldsmith, Scott, Byron, or Moore;
not one of Drake, Cromwell, Monk, Marl-
borough, Peterborough, or Nelson; not one
of Stafford, Ormond, or Claredon; not one of
Addison, Swift, or Johnson, not one of Wal-
pole, Bolingbroke, Chatham, Pitt, Fox,
Burke, Gra[-]tan or Canning; not one of Ba-
con, Locke, Newton, or Davy; not one of
Hume, Gibbon, or Macaulay; not one of
Hogarth, or Reynolds; not one of Garrick,
John Kemble, or Edmund Kean. It would
be easy to make a similar American list,
beginning with Washington, of whom it is
said that "Providence made him childless
that his country might call him Father."
	If a child wants a light to go to sleep by,
give it one. The sort of Spartan firmness
which walks off and takes away the candle
and shuts all the doors between the house-
hold cheer and warmth and the pleasant stir
of evening mirth, and leaves a little son or
daughter to hide its head under the bed-
clothes and get to sleep the best it can, is
not at all admirable. Not that the mother
means to be cruel, when she tries this or
that hardening process, and treats human
nature as if it were clay to be moulded into
any shape she may please. Very likely, she
has no idea whatever of the injury and suf-
fering she causes, or perhaps her heart aches;
but she perseveres, thinking she is doing
right.
	"If I were asked to name the principal
element of weakness in the family as things
now stand, I should have no hesitation in
pointing to the want of sufficient subjects
of common interest between man and wo-
man. It is owing to this that matrimonial
engagements are entered into so rarely on
the basis of any broad intellectual sympa-
thy, such as might furnish some security
for lasting affection and so often at the bid-
ding of impulses and fancies that do not out-
live the honeymoon; and it is owing to the
same cause that so very large a proportion
of the lives of most husbands and wives are
spent practically apart, with little or no
knowledge on the part of either of the ob-
jects or aims which engross the greater por-
tion of the other's thoughts and energies."
	Curious to relate, from the conclusion of
several surgeons in the German army that
detriment to health and even death itself
have resulted from the practice of wearing
leather shoes in wet weather, some of the
scientific societies of the Continent have
recommended the manufacture of wooden
shoes for soldiers, out-door laborers, and
others who are obliged to be abroad with-
out regard to the elements. An experien-
ced workman from France was a short time
since called to Germany to superintend
the manufacture of wooden shoes on an ex-
tensive scale in the latter country. These
are represented as being light and easy to
wear, and are provided with a small cushion
within the upper side to obviate any pres-
ure on that part of the foot; they are also
said to be of neat and pleasing appearance,
blackened or varnished; are made large
enough to accommodate comfortable stock-
ings, and are furnished with leather straps.


IT is not every one whose theory about en-
dorsing notes is as good as that of the small
Scotch laird who was waited upon by a
neighbor, to request his name as, an accom-
modation, to a bill for twenty pounds, at
three months;
	"Na, na, I canna do that."
	"Why for no, laird? Ye hae done the
same thing for ithers."
	"Ah, Tammas, there's wheels within
wheels ye ken naething aboot. I canna
do't."
	"It's a sma' affair to refuse me laird."
	"Weel, ye see, Tammas, if I were to pit
my name till't, ye wad get the siller frae
the bank, and when the time came round
ye wadna be ready, and I would hae to pay't;
an' then you and me wad quarrel; sae we
may just as weel quarrel noo, as lang as the
siller's in ma pouch."


When is a loaf of bread said to be inhab-
ited? When it has a little Indian in it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.
	Improve yourself and you benefit the
world.
	A married girl of thirteen seeking a di-
vorce on the ground that she is too young,
is one of the latest social developments of
Indianapolis.
	A school for teaching spinning and weav-
ing is to be established in the Canton of
Zurich, and a sum of 200,000 francs has
been subscribed for its endowment.
	During a hurricane in Kansas, the coun
ty treasurer became so terrified that he ac-
knowledged a defalcation of $1,500. After
the wind had subsided, he denied it.
	The most reverend, the Archbishop of
Westminster, England, has forbidden female
singers in churches in his archdiocese. He
may be a man of superior judgment, but we
don't admire his taste for music.
	French statistics show that there are
cities of fifteen thousand inhabitants in that
country without a physician. The same
figure also indicates that the per centum of
mortality is lightest where there are fewest
doctors.
	Late advices from Montana represent
that small bands of Indians are depredating
about the mouth of the Musselshell. A par-
ty of woodchoppers were murdered, and
another man burned at the stake. Setting
Bull's band are charged with the last named
crime. 
	A Detroit young woman tried to be
aristocratic and did not look at the money
that she gave the horse-car conductor, but
he meekly gave her back the lozenge on
which was written "I'll never cease to love
thee," and said that he was an orphan with
five little brothers to support and must be
excused.
	There are now living in Rhehoboth, Bris-
tol County, Mass., about thirty persons who
are eighty years of age and upwards, in a
population of two thousand, a circumstance
of which few towns can boast. Mrs. Phebe
Bullock, who on the 12th of July completed
her eighty-fifth year, has, since the opening
of spring, woven with her own hands about
one hundred yards of rag carpeting.
	"Mrs. Woodhull crossed the continent
with free passes for all her party," says the
San Francisco "Chronicle." "And she left her
money matters at the Golden Gate in charge
of a judge." And the Detroit "Free Press"
says--"Out West here we don't get red be
hind the ears and holler: 'Who paid the
Woodhulls' fare to Europe?' We are sim-
ply thankful they went." Poor Vic.!


DIVERSIONS. 
	A good suggestion is like a crying baby:
it should always be carried out.
	What is the champion conundrum—
Life; because everybody has to give it up.
	Since the beginning of the temperance
crusade a great many ladies have been ad-
mitted to the bar.
	What is the difference between a church
organist and the influenza?—One knows
the stops and the other stops the nose.
	“Ah!” yawned a bachelor, “this world is
but a gloomy prison.” “To those in solitary
confinement,” added a witty lady.
	A Troy woman says that if death loves a
shining mark, it is singular that he has not
aimed at her husband’s nose before this.


A small Milwaukee boy thinks it absurd
to ask $50 for a thrashing machine when
his mother only pays $2 a pair for slippers.
	A man advertises for a competent person
to take the sales of a medicine, and adds—
"it will prove highly lucrative to the under-
taker.
	THERE are two reasons why some people
don't mind their own business; one is they
haven't any business, and the other is that
they haven't any mind.
	"WHERE a woman," says Mrs. Parting-
ton, "has been married with a congealing
heart, and one that beats desponding to her
own, she will never want to enter the mari-
time state again.
	A minister asked a tipsy fellow, leaning
up against a fence, where he expected to go
when he died. "If I can't get along any
better than I do now," he said, "I shan't go
anywhere. I'll stay where I am!"
	THE other day a Brooklyn policeman, in
making out a charge against an arrested
party, wrote: "The prisoner set upon me
disorderly, and called me an ass, and a pre-
cious ruffian, and an idiot—all of which I
certify to be true."
	DISCONTENTED Cabby (to ladies, who
wishing to get rid of their small change,
have tendered him one fourpenny piece,
two threepenny ditto, one penny, one half-
penny, and two farthings—the sum total
amounting to his proper fare: "Well 'ow
long might yer both a' been in saving up 
for this treat?"—Punch.
	THE other day a minister offered prayer
at the laying of a corner-stone. A brisk
young reporter bustled up and said: "I
wish you would give me the manuscript of
that prayer." "I never write out my pray-
ers," responded the preacher. "Well," said
the reporter, "I couldn't hear a word you
said." "I wasn't praying to you," quickly
responded the parson.


﻿A WOMAN'S INVENTION.
	At the Mechanics’ Exhibition, now going
on at Faneuil Hall in Boston, is a novel and
ingenius invention of a woman. Fronting
the entrance to the Faneuil gallery is a
handsome bedstead, constructed of black
walnut and elaborately veneered, and is
quite a conspicuous object, receiving as it
deserves, a large share of attention. The
peculiarity of this necessary article of fur-
niture is that it affords a hiding place for
valuables, and is supposed to secrete them,
beyond the reach of a burglar, in a set of
drawers which occupy the space generally
wasted between the sideboard and beneath
the mattress. There are two large drawers
on each side of the bedstead which can be
opened like a bureau, and two smaller re-
ceptacles constructed between the aforesaid
drawers, access to which can only be gained
by removing the mattress and springs, and
in which the valuables are supposed to be
placed. This novel contrivance has been
invented and patented by Mrs. Benjamin
French, a Boston lady, who is deserving of
praise for her ingenuity. Arrangements
have been made for the manufacture of this
piece of furniture, which will be known by
the name of “The Boston Bedstead,” and
its practical utility will soon be demonstra-
ted.—"Woman's Journal.


A TEST OF FRIENDSHIP.
	It is one of the severest tests of friend-
ship to tell a man of his faults. If you are


angry with a man, it is not hard to stab
him with words, and looks, stinging him to
madness, or disgracing him in the presence
of his foes. But so to love a man that you
cannot bear to see the stain of sin upon him,
and to go to him alone and speak painful
truths in touching, tender words, that is
friendship, and a friendship as rare as it is
precious. Few, indeed have such friends.
Our friends are apt to pet us, and praise us,
and flatter us, and justify us in all we do,
and tell us that we are right, when we are
wrong, and they know it, and might correct
us, but do not for fear they shall hurt our
feelings. They allow our enemies to rip the
coverings from our faults and show us what
we are. If friends would reprove us more,
enemies would wound us less. Do you wish
to be my friend? Then tell me my faults to
my face. Will you do so before you are an-
gry? Will you still tell them to me, though
I am annoyed at your faithfulness? Will
you refuse to be an enemy, and not allow
yourself to be counted as a stranger, but
keep on in faithful dealing till you have won
me to the right? If so, I greet you and wel-
come you, for "Faithful are the wounds of a
friend, but the kisses of an enemy are de-
ceitful."


H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER. 

		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store.

FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO.OP CORNER.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
Exponent and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.							$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,							   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50  						    34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4		 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
ponent favorably to the notice of non subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.

VOL. 3.							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1874	No.12.


AN INTERESTING LETTER.
LAIE, Oahu, Oct. 5, 1874.
President Brigham Young:
	Thinking you would like to know how I am
progressing with my department of the Hawai-
ian Mission, I send you the following report.
	I am very happy to state that, after unre-
mitting perseverance, I have succeeded in es-
tablishing a good English school on Laie.
	We arrived here on the 3rd of June, 1873.
On the 16th I commenced my school with four
native children. In a few days the number in-
creased to seven. Since the first of January,
1874, the average daily attendance has been
twenty. On the 16th of June, just one year
from the opening of my school, I had a public
examination and exhibition. There were pre-
sent one of the school agents of this district, the
district judge, many of the parents and friends
of the pupils, also Bros. Mitchell, Cluff and
Richards, and sister Mitchell. The number of 
pupils present was 24, including three of Bro.
M's children.
	The exercises consisted of spelling, reading,
writing, mental and written arithmetic, and
geography, also recitations and dialogues and
singing. The examination lasted five hours,
including a short intermission at noon. During
the whole of the time there was not a failure.
The native children deported themselves in a
manner that would have been creditable to a
more enlightened people. Bro. Mitchell's little
girls have attended the school from its com-
mencement. They have made rapid progress in
their studies. They passed a good examination
of a higher grade than the natives, and were
quite a help to me in getting up the exhibition
They also played a number of pieces on the or-
gan, which added much to the entertainment.
At the close of the examination, Bros. Mitchell
and Cluff, the school agent, the district judge,
and other leading men of the place, made some
very appropriate addresses to the pupils and 
their parents. All expressed themselves well
pleased with the progress the pupils had made
in their English studies, and encouraged them
to continue at the school. Bro. Mitchell has
done all in his power to make the school a suc-
cess. He has talked to the people, both in pub-
lic and private, telling them of the advantages
to be derived from an English education. The
rest of the brethren have rendered what assist-
ance they could.
	Financially, the school has not been a suc-
cess; those who patronize it are generally poor,
and after having paid government and school
taxes, and getting the common necessaries of
life, they have but little left for the payment of
school bills. I charge them twenty cents per
week per scholar, which is five cents cheaper
than other schools of the same grade that have
assistance from the government. But I am here
on a mission to benefit the people all I can, and
not to oppress them by charging exorbitant
prices for what I do for them. I only want a
living, and that in the most economical style.
	As all or nearly all of the English schools
are receiving subsidies from the government,
Brother Mitchell thought it advisable for me
to apply to the Board of Education for some as-
sistance. I did so, and corresponded with the
President of said Board. He replied that when
the present session of the Legislature closed,
they would have a meeting, and my case would 
be considered.
	Not long since I was in Honolulu, and called
on Dr. J. M. Smith, the secretary of the Board
of Education. I had a very pleasant interview
with him; I gave him a report of my school,
with which he was much pleased, and said he
would do all he could to procure assistance for
me. Since that time I have received a letter
from him, stating that he had presented my case
to the Board at its meeting, that it was duly
considered, and that my efforts to promote the
educational interests of the country were duly
appreciated, but the means at present under its
control would not permit of any new outlays,
and that the strictest economy would have to be
exercised to meet its present numerous obliga-
tions.
	I venture to add a few words about our Sun-
day school. Our average attendance is fifty,
ranging from five to fifty years of age. I have
a class of three boys and nine girls, who read in
the English Testament. They are learning
well, and are punctual in attendance. With the
exception of two, they are pupils from my day 
school.
	The children and people, as far as I know,
feel well towards me, and as they express it,
"Aloha nui ia oe." They wish me to remain
with them. I make a special point to study
their character, in order to know what course to
pursue with them to result in the most good. I
am well pleased with my mission here; the
time passes very pleasantly; the climate agrees
with my health; I am not in the least degree
home sick, and am willing to remain here as
long as I can do good to the people, or as long
as I am desired to stay.
Brother Alma L. Smith has arrived. He
is well and feeling well.
	Our Conference commences to-morrow.
We are all here now; the young brethren have
returned from their fields of labor on the other
islands to attend conference. They are feeling
well.  We are all well and in excellent spirits.
	Please remember me kindly to your family
and the brethren in the offices.
	May peace and prosperity ever attend you.
—Deseret News.		M. E. RANDALL.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A DEVENPORT (Iowa) man lately shipped
2,800 barrels of onions for the East. Profit,
$1.60 per barrel.
	THE French people produce more eggs
than any other and ship millions of them to
England annually.
	W.P. ANDERSON of Albany has recently
been awarded a patent for a clod crusher of
his own invention.
	THERE is an orchard fifty years old in
Sonoma county, California, and some of the
trees are still producing good crops.
	THE public school children of California
contributed $1,780,44 to the Lincoln Monu-
ment, dedicated by President Grant at 
Springfield, Ills., recently.
	THE Chicago Public Library, founded
just after the great fire, has now 40,000 vol-
umes. It is supported by a tax of one-fifth
of a mill, which already gives an income of
$65,000 a year.
	THERE are about one hundred millions of
people on the face of the globe who would
regard the loss of their daily cup of coffee
as one of the greatest privations they could
endure, although it is only for the last two
hundred years that coffee has been gener-
ally known to the civilized world. 
	THE Washington Insane Asylum contains
at present fifty patients, nine of whom are
females. The rate paid to the contractor,
Mr. Harmon, for their keeping is ninety-one
cents per day for each patient. This in-
cludes board, clothing and washing. The
Territory pays for medical attention.
	CRUSOE'S Island is said to be to-day a lit-
tle Paradise. Lord planted there, on one of
his voyages apples, peaches, grapes,
plums, strawberries and several kinds of
vegetables. The number of the latter was
increased by a Scotchman, David Doug-
las, who landed on the island in 1826.


For the EXPONENT.
		A LESSON ON MATRIMONY.
MRS. EDITRESS:
	Will you, me one kindly favor do? Pub-
lish this meek note I send, of a pleasant
lady friend. Dear Electa, fair and gentle
—Ah! I'm growing sentimental! Well, 'tis
this, she's married now; she may tell you
where and how. Only this would I be stat-
ing, 'twas a happy time for mating. All
their friends are now declaring, since she's
taken to Manwaring, both seem happier
than ever, both are wiser and more clever;
both as bright as rosy June, 'mid their au-
tumn honey-moon.
			MORAL.
	Ho! young men and maidens hear! Mark
their course and persevere. Fear ye not,
ye tardy men, that a day approaches when
Judges will do all the courting, and arrest
you for such sporting? Then as days grow
cold and colder, wax ye lovers bold and
bolder; make an earnest, sure advance,
while you still may have a chance. Ah! I
see there's one objection to that sort of fond
connection. How your purse string oft
relaxes, now for debts, donations, taxes.—
Never mind if you're expert you can buy a
wedding shirt. Therefore, let your spirits
soften—"marry young and marry often;"
take a mutual friend's advice, never stop at
it once or twice.
				FIDEI DEFENSOR.
	S.L. City, Nov. 8th, 1874.


MY ENGLISH HOME.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:--
	I believe every Englishman, and more
particularly every English woman who has
seen Risley's Mirror of England, will agree
with me that the grand panorama deserves
to be advertised. The artist whose cunning
hand completed those paintings, has, in my
eyes, achieved a glorious work. They are
true to life—with this exception if I make
any—almost too much brilliancy or light of
coloring may have been given to some of
the views. But this is well, where Ameri-
ca's children are to be entertained; they be-
ing accustomed to clearer skies in general,
and perhaps more gorgeous day dawns and
sun sets, than the native Britain.
	While watching those scenes unfolded in
life like loveliness and sublimity, I could
but frame in my mind the wish that every
English man or woman in our Territory,
could have the privilege of beholding them
as I did. Oh these familiar scenes! My
country! My country! My fair, sweet. beau-
tiful English home! I shall never return to
you in the flesh! My mortal eyes will
never more survey your sacred bounds, ex-
cept as now in panoramic view. But, "The
earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof."
And when it has all been redeemed, and is
given to the Saints for their possession,
who knows but I shall have an inheritance
there?					A PATRIOT.


MISS Cora H. Wilkes, of Allegan, has
filled a bookkeeper's position with signal
ability in the city National Bank of that
place for several years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the Exponent.
		QUESTIONS﻿.

	Is it a crime for woman to love?
Do not the angels in courts above?

Is it a crime to love unsought?
Yea, so the wise old world hath taught.

What if affection past her control
Mingled with hope should enter her soul,

Must they be stifled, forever unknown,
Hid in her breast as a diamond stone?

Or if she dare this love to betray,
Tell, she has given her young heart away,

Should she be treated as foolish and weak
because she has ventured his favor to seek?

If she believes him noble and pure,
One who will ever faithful endure,

Is she to blame for loving that man?
Now critics, answer me "Yes" if you can.
							Queery.


vantage
is....

ntageqrfortKej
vulgarity.!.-s
nppearanceof advantage;
J..a. pjib3 oj.edit.dwr.‘,.
' uTlra'EiaA sivhNEiu
v. , ;	’...:
tPerhapS every man, 1 think every woman;
I--am"quite sure every happily married
couple, no matter how public and undomes-
tic their present life, cherish somewhere
down in their hearts an ideal of a future
homestead. I do not mean ri castle in Spain,
buttho possible house which, wheqa few
possible things turn up, they mean to live
in, and to the thought of which they cling
even more and more fondly as the unfulfilh
ing years, go by. On the :days when the
surface glitter and rattle of life and the om-
nipresent; stare Of people's eyes become un-
endurable, we comfort ourselves with build-
ing, in fancy, a higher hedge around that
homestead. In the days whori millinery
openings, and the emanation? of fresh-stirred
city dirt-heaps remind us that somewhere
it; is spring, we find relief in considering
whether we would better sod the lawn or
sow it with grass-seed, when we get that
home of our own, When the friend of our
youth comes to seo usand wo negotiate
with the hotel clerk for an extra, seat at the
table, or ponder in which theatre to spend
our evening, wo take a half unconscious
undercurrent of solace in furnishing thb
spare chamber- and building an extravagant
fire on the hearth of that home of bur own.
When tlib boarding-house plario is especially
out. "of tune, When the hoarding-house' fare
is more than usually stale, flatjftnd unprofit-
able, when a Certain person cuts us on the
street, yea, when the curbstone Ot the. cross-
ing.’ waslhighor than we thought and we
have Stubbed otir-toe, WO think to ourselves
in. dudgeon,‘ bit woifit he so when we'liaye a
home-of our dWn.h '  '		1
MayJ hot have my ideM as well; as an-
other? ; I;have, AridTdesire; dear reader, tp
compare it’‘with yours: Supposing;'the;
house to be the body wherein .dwells", that'
spirit which wo call the!home;r shall’fd6.
my notion ,Of a home and’ fit my hottse there-
to..-	-
First—It-should be ecbnomical.
The ideal of a honiestead, to be of pipCp
value, should be one" that is accsiiplrito
that portion of the community Which ijr
moStnimportftht1 to suit—whiefi 'portion 1
take to be,.not fhe-foo poor, whcahnothfell
be-suited hof the too rich,'who can1 genius
ally manage1to get; iri one or another;waste-
ful way; more' than they havb'ramed the
riglit-to; but those who do th6 worjds WOrk
and wield the World's force?, and neOd rind,
must have the best of its advantage.
Economy, if we may trust our dictionary,
is that management of ourTeSOUrces which,
expend? to advantage without Incurring
waste. To violate this principle is! to vio-
late true taste; for expenditure Without ad-
Cd a house
i The first of our many mistakes Was a vio-
lation of true-economy, and-therefore'of
truo art, in roakjng;Qur dwelling, top-large.
There Is Scarcely a room in it, which might
noThavo been somewhat smaller, ancT still
retained'its pleasantness and convenience.
It is true there have been a. few times when
this extra spaCb Was both a .pleasure and
a, convenience;, but a.honaa is supposed .to
bq planned fpr .ordinary and not extraoirdw
nary occasions: or, asDr. Fuller expresses
it;'!“Better to small for H day than too large-
for a year.” ‘' "r	"
Our next mistake was in the same direc-
tion—ceilings too high. If a ceiling is suf-
ficiently raised to prevent the heated air
jfrOm: falling back upon Our beads with a
periSQ of oppression it is obviously high
phqugh. Every foot above this ia an addi-
tion to the cost :of building, and the after
cost of heating, without a Corresponding
advantage.-		
“But,” your architect will argue, “that
has nothing to do witb .it; yoq must make
the hight of your room in a certain propor-
tion to the length and breadthof your room,
or the thing Will look wrong. :.
I, hrioW but little of, architectural. .rules,
but I.know that as there is pne .standard of
proportion for a Grecian temple, with its
vastness and dimness—a staudard growing
out Of its uses—so there ought to be an ut-
terly different standard of proportion for an
American dwelling, which, to be sure,
should grow directly out of its uses. If I
had some reason for requiring one room in
a house to be more than ordinarily long and
broad, I should not feel called upon to makp
it high in proportion, unless I needed the
bight. It would be an expenditure of
means in excess'6f the endy arid .therefore
must be wrong.
Secondly—It should be Atnerican.
Its architecture should fit the heeds of
our own place and time. Iri the good old
days when every man’s house was his castle,
it was so because every man who owned a
bouse was forced to.,makp if a castle forself
protection against his next-door enemy, for
seldom in those days, were there, .any. next
door neighbors. And a V.Ory grririd, impos-
ing, picturesque, inconvqmebt, cheerless,
unwholesome house it must have bdeh;
witli its walls like barracks, and chamber's
like .cells, and windows like slits in a jail.
Instead, of .a pleasant hedge, about, it, noi-
some ditches; , instead of an easy eritraned
to welcome folks in; a gateway, expresslycon-
trived to keep folks out; instead.of: a house
arranged; fo, be kept:jvitb,- the smallest
amopritbf hired spr.vipo, a. menage- necessi-
tating what were known tp the. novelist as
BQvpted .Ttetaipdrs, but, to. the feudal mis-
tress, ns a swarmv of .sfupid; idr.pqkOPj, balf-
mahageable, ever, noisy, qvpr; hungry crea-
tures, whose brawling, disorders nqHSkhrive
made the old-time housewife’s lot. a wearL
npss indeed. '		"
Tile fact-that Gothic architecture, whether
in .the forrri Of caStle1 or batftedral, demands
for its best effects the elements of size arid
massiveness, constitutes an objection, in
mariycasek, to its use In.domestic life; Once
theso elements had a meaning, and-were
therefore beautiful; now they ItaVo none;
and are therefore, ugljv  And.yet, without
site they-are more or less:ridiculous,  I re-
member speing,..yerrs ago-rr-on the Hudson,
I think—a castle, which .by “riiaking be-
lieve’fa; gpod deal, you could ;alraost per-
suade yourself; was the. real thing. You
must half shut your eyefef and. play that
the ;treps wcjrp Very largeyand the rocks
Werpipreciifices, hndTthen you could almost
imagine’thbt you expected to see a party of
Do Bracy’s Free Companions stream out
from under its portals, with banners waving 
arid trumpets blaring, and'hbrses 'neighing"
for conflict with somebody across the road.'
When next I saw..that castle, alaal the.dxeam . 
was o’er. A heartless business, man, some
mere useful person, had put up a large,
plain, square, brick factory close by, and
four times the size of the castle which,
henceforth, no malto-believe could call any-
thing but a toy.	-
Dot us, then, preserve: the iriediqvrihstyles
pf architecture in our pictures, tuf we ‘pre-
serve tile medieval habits in our poem? and
talcs, apdnpply to our own lives only siich
features: of each a?, suit our own peculiar
rieeds. The ideal bouse of the robin is it
nest, and nothing else- would become berj
that of the Indian a Wigwam, and noth!pig'
so pictpesqupl that of the war-iike barph,‘a
Aste, and nothing ejse sp fitting; that of
the dweller, inunny;lahds an arcliltectnro
graceful and airy as .thab of Which Milton
spoaks, which “rpso like an: exHaiatfon'
tliqt of'the. civilized American. Of thoLhihet;,
tecuth century, a style neither Boman, nor.
Grecian, nor Moorish,- nor even English but
American, retaini’bg such feature? Only of
plder styles as suit the. modem rieC(i and
adding thereto yithout . scrup)q whate.Ver:
previously, unheard-of "featurQ may be de-
manded by an. American: climate, soil; and
social customs. Arid ashere -has bperi the
history of all Other worthy ‘Orders, of arepi-
tectiire, and as bearify jdiffenfigitye3;l(as;
bqen the result, I .kn.Qv hot why. wft ahould-
fear to. trust the same principle' in our: case
to bring the same result.	-k
Thirfl—It should be healthful.
T(6 this end p true ccjririrny demands'.thxyf
we expend large, proportion pflourihuilUr.
ingmoney, in securing, .a JnlL supply-of.'the:
very best-quality of sunshine, Waterhir
and fire : Det the bliildfng be so p.faeed, if
possihie, that the;,Sun shall eritqxOvery ppOntt
at.some time , of tbq . day, This is. InowjjSpiV
well understood that .It needs.no special in-
sistance. Let the ventilation be- as -far riS;
possible, automatic, so that it cprirtot be Neg-
lected or interfered with by unthinking
persons. And let carp be taken thatp.iioflL 
drained sink shall harbor an eyil spirit to
arise in vapor from its pipo like1 the Gfenii
from hi? jar, and slay an uriwdry horisebbid." ';
Qnly second in InipOrtanco.to WhaVwp pdt,
is the kind of air wp breathe; and;this;for,
at least, seven months in the. year, is largely
nffected by the contrivance? adopted to keep 1
us warm.	”	V!... 
There is your- open fircplap Jgood for
ventilation', unexceptionabip :;n.ppetryi .phor-
ciou3 .in old. folk’s memories; a? they sit in A.
furriaCe-warmed room, and; call up pictures'
pf"the circle roiipd; a blazing hearth some,
jifty'.b.ars', ago; beautiful anA,.'inspiring It
certainly is, and;much tQ.'bq.prizqd ajujr-v 
urious addiiion to..Other', heating arrange-
ments; holding about the same relation to'-
such as flowers at Idinner hold to meat;' bu;
As a chief reliance, the hearth is priisfacl-
lory. If, like a beaf?teak, we, could broil
first.one side, then the other, and then- be
done, it Were well: With us; but its sopn as
wo turn our broiled side’away frouri’ljthe
beat, cold draughts, seize. Upon 'an4J
straightway that.side become?-more. raw:...
than before
Coal stoves in the separate robm? are called
economical; but attendant on these' cornq irij
cessan’t coal-heaving, burnt 'air, ’ dustj'ariql
ashes, vexation of spirit; also liability, to ,di-
vorce,. for what man or woman, washover;'
i
HWKBWep?eSCa®!SC33SSS6aSi5
nrm'-Kw


known to yield supremacy to another in the
art of keeping up a fire?
	Next in order comes the ordinary hot-air,
or as it is often called, gas furnace. The
name is a good one, if applied to its habit of
emitting about such an atmosphere as sin-
ners are taught to dread in the hot hereafter.
Here, also, there are degrees of sulphure-
ousness, but with the best of them flowers
will shrivel and silver articles tarnish, and
human lungs accustomed to it grow danger-
ously sensitive to outside air. Steam-heat-
ing, although a great improvement on the
burnt-air method, involves some slight dis-
advantages; the coils of unsightly pipe in
each room must be elaborately covered and
also occupy space: and in rooms so heated
we are apt to notice here and there a little
saucer under the joints of the pipe, from
which we may infer that it is difficult to
keep these joints water-tight. There is,
however, an improvement on the steam-
pipes, and it is one of which I can speak
with the authority of experience. In it the
air, brought fresh from out-of-doors and con-
ducted in boxes over coils of steam-pipe in
the cellar, rises thence through the registers.
It can never be burned, can never be dry,
can never be mixed with suicidal gases; it
is so bland in its warmth, that a room full of
it at Christmas is like a room full of May;
and a proof of its purity is that garden
plants thrive in it; ferns and lycopodiums
will preserve their dewy softness, instead of
rattling, as they do, in furnace heat; and 
even camellias will keep the promises they
made in the green-house, and not, as is their
wont, cast down their half-filled waxen buds
in despair.
	Such a heating apparatus costs more than
a common furnace, but the increase in
healthfulness is so far beyond the increase
in expense, that if I were advising a party
about to make that home of their own, I
should say, do without your parlor mantel,
if need be, leave your walls unpapered,
your ceilings unstuccoed, your windows un-
curtained, yea, your floors uncarpeted, but
put away money enough to get a furnace for
steam-heated air. 
		TO BE CONTINUED


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.

			THE GREAT PROBLEM.
NATURE VIEWED IN THE LIGHT OF MODERN
				SCIENCE.

	Mr. Liefchild has written a work on the 
above subject now engaging the attention 
of scientists to the excluison, frequenlty, of
common sense. It is interesting to note
the views of Dr. Crosby, by whom an intro-
duction of the above work has been writ-
ten. Without entering into the arena of 
controversy where the bonds of creation are
contending so vigorously, we may quote a 
part of Dr. Crosby’s opinion upon the sub-
ject at issue:  	
	“The royal Psalmist said, “The heavens
declare the glory of God, and the firma-
ment showeth his handy work.” The mod-
ern Huxleys respond: “The heavens de-
clare nothing at all, and the firmament is
ultimately but eternal protoplasm." In this
happy and hopeful response the materialists
are as much traitors to science as enemies
to religion. They ignore all the facts of
mind. This whole department of cogni-
tions is neglected in arranging their prem-
ises. The very first canon of science is thus
violated, which demands that all facts 
be collated as data. Then, a second fallacy
of which they are guilt is, leaving scientific


proof and leaping, by the imagination, to
the conclusion that life is merely matter. 
They find an ultimate matter (only ultimate, 
however, owing to the limited power of the
microscope), and straightway say, "This is
life," although it is known to exist without
life, and has not a single characteristic of
life in it. By such unscientific methods
these scientific men, whose names are now
so famous, have imposed upon the un-
learned and credulous, and made men lose
their faith in the eternal truths of God.
Darwinism is another form of the same in-
fidelity, working its evil by the same un-
scientific methods. Darwin leaps to his
conclusions against every axiom of science,
and Darwinism is, instead of science, mere
theory. Science and Religion are as one.
They both come from God and lead to God.
"The heavens declare the glory of God,"
and "the statutes of the Lord are right, re-
joicing the heart," are accordant strings of
the same harp.
	We need sensible and learned men to come
forward and show the world what fools these
pseudo-scientists are, and thus break the
spell, which is as groundless as the Cock-
lane Ghost, but which holds so many all-
agape at their fantastic tricks."


WOMAN'S RECORD. 

	MISS Edna Dean Proctor, of Brooklyn, has
sued the “Daily Graphic,” of New York,
for $100,000 damages for slandering her, al-
though her name was not mentioned at al
in the paper.
	MRS. Joseph Utton, of Boston, who had
been insane for several days previous, re-
cently took a dose of Paris green, and then
jumped into the Charles River. Between
the two she achieved suicide.
	MAY Alcott, sister of Louisa M. and
daughter of Bronson Alcott, the Concord
Sage, recently exhibited, at Concord, Mass.
cattle-show, a pair of her beautiful panel
paintings of flowers. She spent some time
last year in the picture galleries of London.
	THE "Golden Dawn" tells us that Nettie
La Grange, who, in the absence of Mr.
Johnson is successfully conducting the Santa
Barbara “Press,” has been sued for libel by
one Clarence Gray, of that city. She was
bound over in the sum of $2,000 to appear
before the next Grand Jury. Two gallant
Barbarians promptly went on her bond. 
	THE woman suffrage meeting at Provi-
dence, R. I., recently was an uncommonly
interesting gathering, and the impress that
the Smith sisters of Glastonbury, Ct., and
the Fosters of Worcester, Mass., have made
upon the cause has been particularly notice-
able. Indeed, the leading subject of the ad-
dresses was taxation without representation.
Lucy Stone said: “History will garner up
laurels for Abba Kelly Foster, who put her
gay life, with all its hopes, upon the altar of
a great reform,” and “the cart in which the
Smith sisters stood to plead with their
townsmen should be put in Independence
Hall as an object of veneration.”


﻿A well dressed man entered a jewelry
store and asked if he might look at the cups
in the window. “These,” said the jeweler,
handling one, “are race cups?” “Race cups?
What are race cups?” “Why,” replied the
jeweler, “they are cups I had ordered to be
made for prizes to the best racers.” “Well,
if that’s so, suppose you and I start for one,”
and, with cup in hand, he started, the jew-
eler after him. He won the cup.


﻿FOOD FOR REFLECTION.

DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:—
	I have just been reading the "Juvenile
Instructor" for September 26ht. Something
in Mr. Higginson's letter from Spanish
Fork, took my attention; and I thought I 
would like to make a remark upon it through
the EXPONENT. He writes about the Span-
ish Fork Sunday School having an excur-
sion to Aitkin's Park, or Lake Side, “a de-
lightful spot, situated on the east side of
Utah Lake, near the mouth of Spanish
Fork River.” And he says: “On arriving
at the pleasure grounds, we were welcomed
with applause and demonstrations of joy by
the residents of Lake Side, who had volun-
tarily erected a bowery for our reception,
and were proffering each his services, with
the use of his respective boat to happify the
guests.”
	When I read this, I thought, what a good,
kind, truly Christian spirit must actuate the
people of that little town, Lake Side. And
I wished in my heart that all the people, in 
all our settlements, could feel like that to-
ward each other; not only upon excursion 
days, or in times of pleasure and merry-
making, but in all their business transac-
tions, and affairs of every day life as well. 
If we felt and acted with such good will to-
wards all, we would “love our neighbors as
ourselves” I think.			GUESS WHO.


﻿The striking success of Miss Thompson in
the Royal Academy exhibition at London has
called attention to the English female
schools of art, in the leading one of which,
that at South Kensington, she was once a
student. We have before us an account of
the distribution of prizes at the Bloomsbury
school, at which the archbishop of York offi-
ciated. It appears from the report that
there are 124 schools of the kind in the
United Kingdom and 23,843 students in 
them. There are five grades of competi-
tion; one open to all the schools; one for the
individual school, for prizes presented by
the queen, and by the science and art de-
partment; the third for certificates of excel-
lence in various branches and of efficiency
as teachers; the fourth for a recently en-
dowed two-years scholarship; and, finally,
for prizes given from time to time by friends
of the school. The grand exhibition is held
at the South Kensington school, and, in
speaking of the astonishing progress in art
culture made in England, in recent years,
Mr. Hawley, R. A., stated that no fewer
than 180,000 works have been sent thither
from the various schools. Miss Thompson's
genius is a spur and exemplar to these
young women, now that she has so brilliantly
achieved recognition by her “Roll Call”— 
“Woman’s Journal.”


THE latest and most plausible plan brought
forward for running street cars in cities
without the aid of horses is a foreign de-
vice, in which the motive power used is an
arrangement of powerful springs incased in
cylinders, like watch-springs, of course on
a very large scale, and the application of
which to the cars now employed is said to
be extremely simple and easy. These
springs are wound up by small stationary
steam engines at each terminus of the line,
and when so wound up will propel the cars,
even with stoppages, for a longer distance
than any existing line of this kind extends.
The action is reversible, the application of
the brake-power in every respect satisfac-
tory, and the working of the whole thing
is pronounced a success.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South 
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS. 
	
				LOCAL.
	Work on the street railway from the Val-
ley House corner eastward is being dili-
gently prosecuted......Risley’s panoramic
mirror of England deserves better patronage
than it obtained here......A road to the newly
discovered coal mines, thirty miles from St.
George, is under way......The first real snow
storm of the season, in this valley, occurred
on the night of the 6th inst......The last
company of immigrants for this year arrived
in Ogden on Wednesday the 4th......There
has been a considerable emigration to
Dixie this season, from this and the north-
ern portion of the Territory......The prices 
for fish and meat in some of our city mar-
kets have lately been reduced.
		       POLITICAL
	Democracy will carry the country this
season by a large majority......China pays
Japan an indemnity of half a million tales
and settles the difficulties which have ex-
isted between them......The United States
internal revenue receipts for this year
amount to more than thirty five and a half
million dollars......The State Legislature of
Alabama has a Democrat majortiy of twen-
ty-nine; that of Missouri, eighty-three......
General Banks will probably be elected as
Speaker of the next House of Representa-
tives......Jubilations have been held by the
Democrats in different parts of the country
in honor of their victories.
		         PERSONAL
	The President of the Woman’s Congress
for the nsueing year, will be Miss Maria
Mitchell, the lady astronomer of Vassar
College......Garibaldi is to receive an annu-
ity of six thousand dollars from the muni-
cipality of Naples......Hon. W. Head of
Tennessee, who had just been elected to Con-
gress, died on the ninth inst......Queen Vic-
toria lately danced for the first time since
her widowhood......Adelina Patti is to re-
ceive a salary of $50,000 in the Paris opera
this season......Rosa Bonhuer is fifty-two,
unmarried and lives with a sister and sev-
eral brothers......Mrs. Logan, mother of
Senator Logan, recently died at Murphys-
boro, Illinois.


FLORAL HINTS.
	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Nov, 3rd 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Clothed in garments of white, grim frost
has appeared, and laid low very many of
our floral beauties—of all the year the sad-
dest, when by the thousands our treasures are
rudely blasted, and in an hour lose form,
fragrance and beauty—and we helpless to
avert the evil.—Well it is good to look at
the other side and think, how many days,
weeks, months in the past year we have
been daily greeted with the smiles of the
flowers—Aye! a long season of delight, from
early February, till the end of October!
nine long blooming months. Now with the
score or two of pots for winter blooming and
parlor gardening, ought we not to be satis-
fied till the genial warmth of spring shall
awaken our thousand-hued flowers, and
woo them back to life, and our glad wel-
come?
	If it is desired to have bulbs for winter
flowering, and they are not yet planted, lose
no time. Select, hard, firm, heavy, smooth
specimens, place them in the pots so that
the bulb is just fairly covered with moist
dust, firmly pressed down and against the
bulb. Now place your pots in cold frame-
cellar—closet—or any dark place of even


temperature, say about 50° give a little
moisture as needed—but not too much, and
let them remain till the roots pretty well
fill the pot and top starts—now bring to the
parlor, gradually exposing to light, sun, and
heat, and you will be very likely to have
what you wish—bloom vigorous, sweet,
lovely.
	It is little use to bring to the heated par-
lor, flowering plants with umbrageous tops,
and scanty weak roots, for you will have to
nurse, and doctor a long time before you
are paid with blossoms. Unless you know
something of flower culture, or mean to
learn by practice, it would be best to rely
upon the judgment of some honest florist for
selection of winter blooming plants and
those otherwise for ornament.
	Now good sisters—whatever you do, or
don't accomplish—be sure you don't fail to
have a few pots of flowers in the house, and
take good care of them and teach your
children to care for them daily.
						FLORA.


﻿HEART vs. HEAD.

	Shall our daughters be educated? Yes, by
all means! But let us attend to the education
of their hearts as well as their heads. And let
it be true education, not the false.
	True it is that the continuous practice of sen-
sational novel reading destroys the healthful
functions of heart and brain, Yet there is a
possibility of people becoming too matter-of-
fact for the full, free exercise of human happi-
ness. To pursue any or all branches of scien-
tific literature with such vigor and devotion as
to crush out, or blunt the growth of all emo-
tional qualities, of a domestic character, is
making a mistake in the course of education.
	Yet women become ambitious, and laudably
so, to gain wealth and distinction and power
equal to that possessed by men. And with
some, before they are aware, that ambition
grows into an excited determination to excel.
Rather than run the risk of a failure through
the admission of other hopes and purposes, they
shut out from their imaginations all the softer
tints of nature’s coloring, by which the rude,
dark scenes so frequently occurring in life’s
pathway, might be made comparatively cheery
and light. Thus the head becomes educated
to the exclusion from culture and proper devel-
opment of the innate faculties of the subdued
and silenced heart.
	Is not the woman who thus pampers and ex-
alts those personalities which she may consider
the noblest and most excellent in her nature,
at the expense of blighting finer and more ex-
quisite qualities, quite as unjust in her decis-
ions as the stern and much learned connois-
seurs who would refuse women the right to en-
ter the colleges? If the daughter may legiti-
mately claim the right to ALL the advantages


for an education which are guaranteed to her
brother—and we aver she may—then have all
those qualities which serve to render us pleas-
ing and agreeable as social beings, or happy
within ourselves, a right to live and receive
care and culture, quite as much as the most
practical talent which may serve as a resource
for gaining daily bread.
	Not more in woman than in man should the
heart's best gifts as well as those of the head
be acknowledged and educated. If gentle for
bearance, pure and sincere affection, sympathy
patience and perfect love are virtues, as such
they should be recognized in man as readily as
in woman.
	It has been the popular cry that no woman
could be a good, true, loving wife, and at the
same time successfully follow any profession.
If so, neither can a man do justice to any pro-
fessional calling and prove a kind, affectionate
and considerate husband. The truth is, man
has been looked upon as the soul proprietor of
the head, and woman has been considered as
merely a possessor of the heart; whereas, to
each have both been given. And woman need
not now ignore the fact, that she has a heart
because she begins to comprehend that she has
also a head like that of her lord's; which, if
she can but gain an opportunity, she can use to
advantage. But let man learn that as the Bible 
teaches, it was simply a rib, not a heart that
was taken from him; and he being still the
owner of a heart, is expected to exercise some
of its chief excellencies in making himself, and
assisting to make his home and the world what
he would have them and what they should be.


PRETTY AND SENSIBLE.
	To accord with the change in the weather,
ladies of late appear on the streets in warm
wrappings and overshoes. At one of the cross-
ings the other morning, we met a rosy cheeked,
bright eyed maiden whose neat costume we
noted with peculiar interest and admiration.
Her dress, which was of home-made material
from one of the Utah factories, was made with
gored skirt, without a single puff or bias piece
or yard of velvet trimming. A neatly fitting
coat of the same material, was also innocent of
trimming except the useful buttons. A mod-
est little broach fastened a plain white linen
colar at the throat. She wore home-made
buck-skin gloves with wristlets of our own
mountain fur. Although the approach of win-
ter had already become apparent, this sensible
and exceedingly pretty young girl had not yet
thrown aside her last summer's straw hat.
And we doubt not that she wore shoes of do-
mestic manufacture, though we failed to ob-
serve this as she passed us with a graceful nod
of the head and a pleasant smile of recogni-
tion.


HOME AFFAIRS
	The Utah Southern Railroad is to be ex-
tended as far South as Santaquin, in a short
time. 
	At the Utah Iron works at Iron city, iron is
being produced in considerable quantities
and said to be of good quality.
	Colds are now prevalent—and bad ones too,
for, as a gentleman remarked to us, we never
hear of any person's having a good one.
	A hard winter seems to be generally ex-
pected throughout this Territory. Several days
since, some of the canyon roads were closed up
by snow.
	The proposition to establish a company to
engage in the manufacture of brushes, is under


consideration by the 14th Ward Branch of the 
United Order.
	THE LITTLE article entitled "Don't let talent
rust," which appeared in our issue of Novem-
ber first, was a selection, and did not belong to
us.  The EXPONENT being credited with its
orginality was a mistake.
	BRIGHAM CITY appears to take the lead in
this Territory, in finding resources for home-
manufacture of various kinds. Mrs. Mary
Stark of that city, is teaching some of the
young ladies how to make artificial flowers, as
beautiful, so it is said by those who have seen
them, as any imported.
	THE PROVO factory is turning out nine hun-
dred yards of cloth daily at present. Measures
are being taken to procure additional machin-
ery, sufficient to fill the capacity of the build-
ing, when, it is estimated, two thousand yards
of fabric will be produced daily.
	THE ARTICLE entitled "A Home of Our
Own," a portion of which appears in this issue,
although lengthy, is so sensible in every par-
ticular, so truthfully and beautifully written,
and by a Woman too, that we doubt not our
readers will peruse it, as we have done, with
exceeding interest.
	WE HAVE viewed with much pleasure, some
beautiful specimens of wax flowers, made by
pupils of Mrs. Zina Y. Williams. Many of our
young ladies might do well to cultivate the
delicate and pleasing tastes with which they
have been endowed, by learning thus to imitate
the beauties of nature in works of their own
hands. 
	IF THE people of Utah were as bad as reports
from their enemies show, would Governor
Woods venture to trust them to the care of 
other officials, while he goes to San Francisco,
as information from that city shows, to prac-
tice law? How is it, with all their imperfec-
tions, they could not furnish sufficient employ-
ment to keep their gubernatorial friend busy?
	PROFESSOR BARFOOT lately delighted us by
allowing us to inspect a most beautiful speci-
men of scarlet Chromic Acid crystals, which he 
has been making from exhausted telegraphic
liquid, for a lady in New York. An hour might
be pleasantly and profitably spent in our City
Museum by any lover of nature and art; its
collections of pleasing curiosities are continu
ally increasing and now the price of admission
has been reduced to 25 cents.
	MRS. BATHSHEBA W. Smith who journeys
southward, being one of President Young's
party, writes us from Richfield, Sevier Co., un-
der date of Nov. 4th. The company had "held
meetings at Payson, Nephi, Levan, Gunnison,
Salina and Richfield. At which preaching was
done by President George A. Smith, Patriarch
Wm. G. Young, Dr. S. B. Young, Elders A. M.
Musser and Charles W. Smith. The saints are 
prosperous and healthy—crops light—fall sea-
son very favorable for work."
	VIEWING THE commotion into which the en-
tire country has been thrown through the late
victories won by the Democratic party, natur-
ally gives rise to varied reflections in connec-
tion therewith. Many speculations are formed,
and different opinions expressed, but who can
discover the final results? Present indications
may be that for Utah the prospectst are favor-
able, as all the spouting enemies of her people,
who have lately figured conspicuously at Wash-
ington, are on the shipped side, belonging to
the Republican party, But Satan is not yet
subdued, and while he nas power to wage war
with the defenders of truth and justice, the
Saints need not look for a rest of long dura-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN THESE days of general enlightenment,
when the fact that "to err is human" is so
widely understood, a want of charity betrays a
lack of good sense.
	THE OAKLAND "Homestead," Dora Dar-
moore's paper has undergone a complete change,
and appears now in a pretty, new dress, bear-
ing the title of "The Golden Dawn."
	MICHIGAN IS first among the States to sub-
mit to the popular vote a proposition to an-
swer the "Woman Suffrage question" in the
affirmative; and Iowa, not to be far beaten in
generosity, follows closely in the same direc-
tion.
	AT THE late Woman's Congress held in Chi-
cago, no other subject excited so much interest
as did that of Dress Reform. And the reform-
ers are deeply in earnest. Dr. Mary Safford
Blake, who exhibited models in a dress, appeared
on the platform at the congress in a black silk
dress with the skirt untrimmed and short
enough to clear the floor.
	HARD TIMES are increasing for the poor in
New York. Hundreds of families are reported
to be without the necessaries of life, and it is
estimated that ten thousand men and women
in that great city are out of employment. Should
a bread riot ensue, it will be only what might
have been expected.
	THE SMITH sisters, Abby H, and Julia E., of
whom—and their cows—the papers have had
so much to say, have found fault for years
about paying taxes and not being permitted to
vote. They allowed their cows to be sold; and
now they have achieved a grand triumph over
a collector who has been fined for selling some
of their land when he should have levied on
their personal property.


[Column 1]
		A MOTHER'S MISTAKE.
MRS. RICHARDS,
	Dear Sister:—All through the long,
bright Summer and the splendid, golden
Autumn, Ever Thine has been employed as
a country "School Marm," boarding with
Mrs. Blank—Blank, because Ever Thine
has no permission to publish her excellent
hostess' real name. But, parties concerned
raise no objection to my publishing the fol-
lowing personal experiences, as hints
which may prove beneficial to others, placed
in similar circumstances.
	Mrs. Blank has a fine, intellectual daugh-
ter, who has, perhaps, given too much at-
tention to attracting admirers for the last
few years. At any rate, either through the
influence of coquetry or some other power,
she became uncertain which, if either, of a
couple of gentlemen she would prefer as a
life-time companion, when she grew tired
of flirting and concluded to give her atten-
tion to matrimonial interests. And here
arose a grave difficulty between the young
lady and her maternal parent.
	Now, Ever Thine has no intention to
justify the young lady's proceedings, neith-
er does she condemn them for all that is
bad. Every effect has a cause to begin
with. Whatever may have been the occa-
sion of this young lady's mistaken course,
she should have been led into the right
way again, through gentle and kind treat-
ment; and shown her folly as one having
been misguided by circumstances; not as
one willfully wicked or naturally foolish,
for she was neither. All this her good, lov-
ing mother knew when she was brought to
see it. But to begin with, she saw only
that the daughter, on whom she had lav-

[Column 2]
ished great care and tenderness, and of
whom she was very proud, was in error, and
would not understand things for herself as
she understood them for her. And here it
was that the mother's mistake occurred of
which Ever Thine writes.
	It was a sad mistake, and came near prov-
ing a fatal one, that this mother endeavored
by calling her daughter foolish, weak, con-
trary, and like epithets, to convince her that
if she married the man to whom she rather
inclined, she would not be happy. These
matters were freely discussed in the pres-
ence of Ever Thine, and her opinion often
asked by both mother and daughter, partic-
ularly the former.
	At last, Ever Thine said to the perplexed
and anxious mother, that she did not think
the measures she pursued with the young
lady were likely to result in good. Where-
upon Ever Thine was asked to talk to the
girl upon the subject and see what influence
she might have. To this Ever Thine did
not object. She had trod the same miry
path herself, and could heartily sympathize
with the disconsolate young woman, al-
though she saw too, as did the mother, that
the way which the daughter was inclined to
choose could but end in misery. Ever
Thine had often felt that she could put her
arms about the young girl and whisper
words in her ear which would comfort and
strengthen her, and at the same time serve
to throw a clear light upon the subject which
was then misty and dark to her confused
gaze. But until the mother requested it,
Ever Thine had no right to interfere in the 
matter.
	The loneliest, weariest time that can ap-
pear to a lonely, restless mortal, is the hour
of Sabbath twilight. Yet this was the
time first presented to Ever Thine for the
conversation she had promised to seek with
her young friend. And it proved to be a
lucky hour. For no sooner had Ever Thine
drawn the dejected, sorrowing little being
into a warm, sisterly embrace, and spoken
pretty sentences of cheering sympathy and
kindly advice, than her subdued and melt-
ing heart was ready to yield to anything
that experience and calm judgment might
suggest. And Ever Thine had the satisfac-
tion of seeing the young woman happily
married before she left their home. But
this is what Ever Thine would impress up-
on the minds of parents.
	Never speak other than fond and gentle
words to a girl who has been or is likely to
be, in the least, crossed in her love affairs.
Don't call her weak-minded because she is
uncertain how to act when two strong pow-
ers are operating in opposite directions upon
her. Strong men are often weak where love
and women are concerned; why should a 
common place girl be reproached for not
acting always wisely where love and men
are concerned. The nursing infant should 
not be treated with more tenderness than
the girl whose mind has become bewildered
over so delicate an affair as her heart's affec-
tions, even though they may have been
misplaced.			EVER THINE.


RHEUMATISM, &c.—All such disorders as
rheumatism and bodily weakness find a
powerful remedy in the leaves and flow-
ers of the wild sage (Roman wormwood)
mixed with a small quantity of rabbit brush
and hoarhound, steeped in boiling water; a
little salt should be added, and the decoction
applied to the parts affected, with a sufficient
bandage to hold it there till relief is ob-
tained, which, in most cases, occurs after
one or two applications, in one night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			BUILD HIGH.	
	Ye who build on earthly soil
		Build high
	Would you profit by your toil
		By and by,
	Build above the water's deep
		Angry flow,
	Bearing on with mighty sweep
		All below.
	Build not thou upon the sand
		Tis untrue,
	In the storms it will not stand
		Firm to you.
	Ye who live in lifes strange field,
		Live high
	Above the mists that follies yield, 
		Ever high,
	Haunts of vice where passions reign
		With full sway,
	And scenes of crime, of woe and pain
		Cloud the way,
	Live above, yet stoop to raise
		The fallen up
	Help them to walk in better ways,
		To shun the cup
	Teaming with miseries to the brink - 
		Aye flowing o'er,
	Teach them at truth's full fount to drink
		It leaves no sore:
	But calms the soul with care oppressed
		And cheers the way
	On to a brigh eternal rest
		And endless day. 
							HOPE.


[Column 1]﻿
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Boiling.— Rice boiled slowly will swell out
better and not adhere to the kettle. Heat milk
slowly to avoid burning. 
	Milk Cakes.—Take 1 egg and a pint sweet milk;
add buckwheat flour until the batter is rather stiff;
then add 1 teaspoonful yeast powder, a little salt;
bake quickly. If liked very light, add more yeast
powder.
	Buckwheat Cakes.—Scald 1 pint corn meal; when
nearly cold add l pint oat-meal and one of buck-
wheat, a tablespoonful molasses, a little salt, and a
half pint yeast; add water of the same tempera-
ture until a thin batter is made; keep it warm un-
til very light; then bake quickly.
	Mush.— Fill a kettle half full of boiling water;
add salt; when the water boils stir in meal until it
is stiff; then add 1 teacup flour; cook very slowly
half an hour; when cold, slice and roll in flour
and fry, brown in 2 spoonfulls hot lard; or eat
warm, with sugar and butter or sweet milk.
	Cheap Pudding.—Put in a tin pail 2 quarts of
skimmed milk and set it in a kettle of boiling wa-
ter; when very hot, stir into it 1 pint of meal; take
from the fire and add 1 teacup molasses, 1 tea-
spoonful of salt and one of cinnamon; bake in a
buttered cake-pan; use cream sauce, flavored with
nutmeg.
	To Clean Gloves-—Make a thick mucilage by
boiling a little flaxseed, to which add a little dis-
solved soap, and when the mixture cools wipe the
gloves with a piece of white flannel, previously
fitting them to the hand. Use only enough of the
cleansing mixture to take off the dirt without wet-
ting through the glove.	
	Corn Bread.—Take equal quantities of corn
meal and flour (or rye flour) scald the meal by
pouring a little boiling water on it; when nearly
cold add the flour, the same quantity of yeast as
used for other kinds of bread and a little melted
lard and salt; make the dough stiff  and knead it;
put it in a warm place to rise and bake it longer
than other kinds of bread.
	Eggs vs. Meat.—Would it not be wise to sub-
stitute more eggs for meat in our daily diet?
About one-third of the weight of an egg is solid
nutriment. This is more than can be said of meat.
There are no bones or tough pieces that have to be
laid aside. A good egg is made up of ten parts
shell, sixty parts white and thirty parts yolk. The

[Column 2]
white of an egg contains eighty-six per cent water;
the yolk fifty-two per cent. The average weight
of an egg is about two ounces. Practically an egg
is animal food and yet there is none of the disa-
greeable work of the butcher necessary to obtain it.
The vegetarians of England use eggs freely, and
many of these men are eighty and ninety years old
and have been remarkably free from illness. A
good egg is alive. The shell is porous and the
air goes through the shell and keeps up a kind of
respiration. An egg soon becomes stale in bad
air or in dry air charged with carbonic acid. Eggs
may be dried and made to retain their goodness for
a long time, or the shell may be varnished, which
excludes the air, when, if kept in a moderate tem-
perature; they may be kept fresh for years. Fresh
eggs are more transparent at the center, old ones
on the top. Very old ones are not transparent in
either place. In water in which one-tenth of salt
has been dissolved, good eggs sink and indifferent
ones swim. Bad eggs float in pure water. The
best eggs are laid by young, healthy hens. If
they are properly fed the eggs are better than if
they are allowed to eat all kinds of food. Eggs
are best when cooked four minutes. This takes
away the animal taste that is offensive to some,
but does not so harden the white or yolk as to
make them hard to digest. An egg if cooked very
hard is difficult of digestion, except by those with
stout stomachs; such eggs should be eaten with
bread and masticated very finely. An excellent
sandwich can be made with eggs and brown bread.
An egg spread on toast is food fit for a king, if
kings deserve any better food than anybody else,
which is doubtful. Fried eggs are less whole-
some than boiled ones. An egg dropped in hot
water is not only a clean and handsome but a de-
licious morsel. Most people spoil the taste of
their eggs by adding pepper and salt. A little
sweet butter is the best dressing. Eggs contain
much phosphorus, which is supposed to be useful
to those who use their brains much.—Poultry Re-
view.


ADDRESS
TO THE YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCHMENT
		ASSOCIATION IN BEAVER.

	         BY MRS. L. B. PRATT. 

	My Dear Young Friends:—I have desired
to address you on this occasion, because I
feel my heart swell with interest for your
well being in all time to come. Many wise
instructions and sanitary counsels have you
received in this house, from those who have
a watch care over you, and from our honored
leaders who preside over this branch of the
Church of which you are members. Shield-
ed as you are by such protecting care, it
seems natural to suppose that there would
be no danger that you could be led astray;
neither is there any while you watch and
pray for yourselves; but remember the
tempter is always nigh, and will seek the
opportune moment to spread out his snares;
and his specious appearance is so alluring
that the most innocent will sometimes, in
an unguarded moment, lend a listening ear,
and find her mind involved. Oh! what a
blessing to a young girl, to have a careful,
watchful mother! and how blessed is the
daughter who will on all important occasions
seek her mother's counsel. When I look
back on my long life, I can recall many cir-
cumstances which came under my imme-
diate observation, wherein some beautiful
life was wrecked, through mere condescen-
sion and sympathy; I will relate one in-
stance.
	A pure-minded young girl who had been
carefully reared by religious parents, a sweet
tempered, amiable, obedient girl who loved
all good, and loved God with a perfect
heart, went to teach school in a district re-

[Column 2]
mote from the village where she had been
reared. She took boarding in a family
where were a number of young men and
women, brothers and sisters. The young
men were clever in business, active and en-
terprising. The whole family were rough
and unrefined, cared nothing about religion.
The daughters were more susceptible of cul-
tivation and improvement in mind and
manners. The new teacher was the pride
of the house. They felt a holy reverence
in her presence. One of the young men
immediately made love to her; he could be
anything for her sake; he could go every
Sabbath to public worship, leave off his pro-
fanity which he had practiced from child-
hood; whiskey and tobacco were repudiated
as obnoxious and proscriptive. Surely, the
humble girl thought, a soul was saved in the 
redemption of this young man. She went
to her revered father and mother to ask
their consent to marry him. Her mother,
less penetrating and observant of human
character than the father, was more inclined
to trust her daughter's judgment; but her
father, filled with wisdom and understand-
ing, knowing the origin of the family, set
his right foot heavily on the floor, replied
with great emphasis, "my daughter, do you
not know, that light and darkness cannot
dwell together?" he would not give his con-
sent. The daughter went back with a firm
resolve to break the intimacy; but alas!
how feeble were her resolves. Her lover
was not to be trifled with. He solemnly
protested she should be his, or he would
hang himself some night before her door,
and she should forever bear the blame.
She had not power to resist his entreaties,
and threatenings, and so they were married.
Six months had scarcely passed away, till
she saw her hopes of a new life in the man
she had wedded, all blown to the four winds;
his old nature was still there, as unlike hers
as the wolf and lamb are unlike.
	Years passed away, and she had grown
daughters when I knew them. Her sister
in telling me the tale of the young girl's
woe, wept with as much apparent anguish,
as though she had stood gazing upon her
lifeless form, clad in the habiliments of the
grave. The poor woman at length rose
abover her sorrows, left her gross companion,
and lived with a good and loving daughter.
Her whole being seemed consecrated to the
love of God. If any woman was ever puri-
fied by affliction, and made perfect through 
suffering, that one truly was. Dearly did
she pay for disobeying her father.
	Another instance I will relate to show a
striking contrast. I knew a little girl in
Salt Lake City, many years ago. She was
good and gentle, loving and humble like
the one above described. She was an un-
derstanding child, loved the gospel, and
clave to her mother with great devotion,
her father having died in her infancy.
Years rolled away, she grew to be a woman
and was married ere I met her again and
learned her history. Her mother told me
how true and faithful she had been to her in
all her trials (which had been many,) how
true to God and her religion! She told me
herself how in her early life she had re-
solved never to encourage the attentions of
any gentleman with whom her mother was
not pleased, she said, "I knew I never
could be happy with any one, of whom my
mother did not approve. So when a gen-
tleman called to see me, I would notice par-
ticularly whether 'ma' seemed favorably
impressed with his conversation and gen-
eral deportment; if she did not, I would
give no encouragement." At length one
came, who pleased them both, he was firm


in the gospel, good, and agreeable she was
married to him when she was eighteen
years of age. He was son-like towards her
mother; so she was made happy through her
obedience, without being compelled to pass
through the scathing fires like the other
poor girl.
	Do you not, my young friends, see plainly
that "obedience is better than sacrifice?"
The scriptures have declared it, and here
you have  illustrated. I congratulate you
on having such a shield thrown around you:
be thankful for wise and judicious parents:
in yielding your wills to their direction you
will please both them and your Father in
heaven. Sometime in the future I will ad-
dress you on the laws of health, if you de-
sire it, and on social habits. Keep this
maxim always fresh in your mind. "Wis-
dom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth
darkness."
			H. S. SHEPHERD. Secretary.
	BEAVER, Nov. 6th, 1874.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
﻿NEW YORK WOMEN JOURNALISTS.

	The following sketches of women journal-
ists of New York city, appeared some
months ago in the Cincinnati "Chronicle and
Times." Since then a number of women
writers have made themselves famous, as
journalists in that metropolis both as pro-
prietors and editors, which are not included
in these sketches:
	The number of women who figure on the
metropolitan press may no longer be count-
ed. Among the daily journals, at least,
their name is legion, and not a few of the 
most influential weeklies own much of their
interest to the sprightly characteristics of
the feminine pen. In this department, if
in no other, woman stands the acknow-
ledged equal of her masculine contempora-
ries; and the only question which affects
her advancement in any branch of the pro-
fession is her fitness for the duties of that
branch. Hence we see Middy Morgan, in 
her coarse boots and short skirts, plodding
through the mire of the city stock-yards as
stock editor of the "Times," while the
charming little widow of a "Herald" re-
porter takes up her husband's pen just
where he lays it down, and carries out his
unfinished programme with as much exacti-
tude as if she had been all her life accus-
tomed to the work. One of the strongest
and most indefatigable writers on the "Star"
is a Shepardess. It is said that the only re-
deeming quality in the columns of the
"Sun" is what flows from the modifying
quills of two women.
	Miss Booth, of Harper's "Bazar," needs
no introduction. Not only as an editor has
her name become familiar to the literary
world. Mary L. Booth first distinguished
herself as a historian and translator, and
for many years confined herself almost ex-
clusively to those two departments; but
since '67, when she was placed at the head
of the "Bazar," she has contributed greatly
by her rare taste and discrimination toward
making that journal one of the most excel-
lent of its class. Her yearly salary of four
thousand dollars attests the high estimate
of her services by Harper Brothers, though
it by no means limits the annual income or
this industrious woman. Her brain and
pen are ever busy; and notwithstanding her
regular newspaper duties the work of the
translator and chronicler still goes on.
	Another well-known name in the same
department is that of "Jennie June," wife
of D. G. Croly, managing editor of the 
"World," and the controlling spirit in
"Demorest's Monthly." Mrs. Croly's con-

[Column 2]
nection with the New York press probably
dates further back than that of any other
woman so engaged at present. She discov-
ered her literary powers very early in life,
and readily learned to put them to profita-
ble use; at a time, too, when men, the most
appreciative and kindly disposed, were in-
clined to ridicule the idea of woman's fit-
ness for any branch of journalism. She
was first engaged on the "Times," but on 
the establishment of "Demorest's Monthly"
the enterprising proprietors of that periodi-
cal offered her a larger salary, and enticed
her away to the sanctum of fashion. There
she has remained over since; and from
there have gone forth the thousands of 
mainifold letters which have made her nom
de plume a household name throughout the
land. This system of correspondence was
orginated by "Jennie June," and proved
to be one of the happy hits of her literary
career. Beginning, of course, on a small
scale, she gradually won her way as an au-
thority on questions of dress, till before
many years nearly every prominent journal
in the country was glad to boast of "Jennie
June" as its fashion contributor; and to-day
that branch of her work alone realizes to
its projector a handsome income. At one
time she prepared and dispatched every
one of these letters herself, but long since
she delegated that unenviable task to a
competent clerk, contenting herself with
merely dictating the form, and afterward
appropriating the greenback returns, minus
a certain percentage.
	Scarcely less known than Mrs. Croly; or
less popular, is Mary Clemmer Ames, of the
"Independent." Mrs. Ames is somewhat
more versatile in her talents, and has alter-
nately filled almost every department of
journalism. Besides being an able prose
writer, this lady is also a poetess, and of 
late years some of her finest literary efforts
have been in a poetic vein. While a mere
school girl, "M. C. A." began to use her pen
as press correspondent, making the Spring-
field "Republican" her first field of exploit.
But at that time she wrote at rare intervals,
and solely for the "fun" of seeing her name
in print. It was not until a much later pe-
riod that she took up her pen in earnest,
and her regular connection with the New
York press began only in '65. From that 
time probably dates her introduction to the
literary world. As a Washington corres-
pondent she became suddenly very popular.
Her style was tinctured with warmth, dis-
crimination, pleasantry and sound common
sense. People learned to regard her as re-
liable as well as entertaining, and "A Wo-
man's Letter from Washington" was never
without its complement of admiring read-
ers. For the past two years Mrs. Ames has
been attached to the editorial corps of the 
"Independent," having, in addition, a cer-
tain amount of regular work on the Brook-
lyn "Union." Her salary is now upwards
of $5,000 a year.
	The only woman employed on the staff of
the New York "Herald" is Mrs. Butts, a
brilliant and painstaking journalist. The
husband of this lady was formerly connect-
ed with the same sheet, and, after his 
death, she made application for piece work,
which was cheerfully furnished her. Her
thoroughness, dispatch and unusual intel-
lectuality were the subjects of constant
comment by those whose business it is to
look out for talent, and the result was an in-
vitation to join the staff. In reviewing the
past, she says of herself:
	"I thank, Heaven that I know how to
work. Should anything happen to my lit-
erary prospects, I could make my living as a
dressmaker, milliner, seamstress, house-

[Column 3]
keeper, cook or laundress. I have done my
own housework, and gloried in it: have
made my husband's shirts, and washed and
ironed tnem; not only because I could really
do them better than a professional laun-
dress, but in order to eke out a reporter's
meagre salary!"
	Mrs. Mary E. Dodge is one of our most
successful literary workers, and shows what
a woman can do in literature. She is the
daughter of the well-known Prof. Mapes,
inventor of the fertilizers, and owns part of
the latter's farm, two miles from Newark,
which is under the management of P. T.
Quinn, formerly agricultural editor of the
"Tribune" and author of several books on
farming. Mrs. Dodge has a salary of $3,000
from "Hearth and Home" for writing exclu-
sively for that journal. She excels particu-
larly as a writer of children's stories, and
combines acburacy of fact with beauty of
style. Her story of Hans Brinker shows
great care and study, and gives a vivid pic-
ture of Dutch life and adventure. Mrs.
Dodge, though the mother of two boys,
whom she supports at college, is young,
handsome and lively as a girl of twenty, and
is excellent company.


FOR WIVES.
	In domestic happiness the wife's influ-
ence is much better than the husband's; for
the one, the first cause, mutual love and
confidence being granted, the whole comfort
of the household depends upon trifles more
immediately dependent upon her jurisdic-
tion. By her management of small sums
her husband's respectability and credit are
created or destroyed. No fortune can stand
the leakage of extravagancies and misman-
agement; and more is spent in trifles than
women would easily believe. The one great
expense, whatever it may be, is turned
over and carefully reflected on ere incurred;
the income is prepared to meet it; but it is
pennies imperceptibly sliding away which
do mischief; and this the wife alone can
stop, for it does not come within a man's
province. There is often an unsuspected
trifle to be saved in every household. It is
not in economy alone, however, that the
wife's attention is so necessary, but in those
niceties which make a well regulated house.
An unfurnished cruet stand, a missing key,
a buttonless shirt, a soiled tablecloth, a
mustard-pot with its old contents shaken
hard and down about it, are really nothing;
but each can raise angry words and cause
discomfort. Depend upon it, there is a good
deal of domestic happiness about a well-
dressed mutton-chop or a tidy breakfast-ta-
ble. Men grow sated of beauty, tired of
music, and are often wearied of conversa-
tion, however intellectual; but they can al-
ways appreciate a well-swept hearth and
smiling comforts.


MISS Martha Hempstead recently died in
Waterford, Conn., aged nearly ninety-one.
She was a daughter of Mary Bill, of Groton,
whom every schoolboy knows as the revolu-
tionary heroine who said to her husband on
his way to war: "John, do not get shot in
the back!" Among the antiquities belong-
ing to Miss Hempstead, was the oldest watch
in New London County, which members of
the Legislature used to borrow during the
sessions in a time when watches were much 
less common than now.


ELLEN J. Fitzgerald was burned to death
at Taunton, Mass., the other day. Her
dress caught fire from the kitchen stove.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	STICKING SALVE;—3lbs of resin; 1/2lb bur-
gundy pitch; 1/2lb beeswax; 1/2lb mutton  tal-
low.
	TOOTHACHE REMEDY.—It is affirmed
that the worst toothache, or neuralgia com-
ing from the teeth, may be speedily and de-
lightfully ended by the application of a 
small bit of clean cotton saturated in a strong
solution of ammonia to the defective teeth.
	A GOOD REMEDY FOR COUGH.—Take a
handful of hops, and put it into three pints
of hot water; let it boil half an hour or un-
til the strength is out. Then strain and add
one and a half cups of best kind of molas-
ses, and one cup of white sugar; boil down
slowly in a bright dish, or enameled kettle,
to about a quart. Then bottle up, and it is
ready for use. Drink a little when you
cough.
	ANOTHER CURE FOR DEAFNESS.—It is
said that oil of the prickly pear (cactus) will
cure deafness.
	The oil is obtained by taking the cactus,
stalks and leaves, when thoroughly ripe, and
cutting them fine and putting them in a
bottle, corked tight; then enclose the bottle
in dough, and bake it slowly in an oven or
stove; this process extracts the oil.
	The oil is to be applied to the ear with a
small feather. A few applications generally
cures.
	A CURE FOR CONSUMPTION.—A corres
pondent writes as follows about the sanitary
powers of a well-known plant; "I have dis-
covered a remedy for pulmonary consump-
tion. It has cured a number of cases after 
they had commenced bleeding at the lungs
and the hectic flush was already on the
cheek. After trying this remedy to my
own satisfaction, I have thought that philan-
thropy required that I should let it be known
to the world. It is the common mullen,
steeped strong and sweetened with coffee
sugar, and drank freely. The herb should
be gathered before the end of July, if con-
venient. Young or old plants are good
dried in the shade and kept in clean paper
bags. The medicine must be continued
from three to six months, according to the
nature of the disease. It is good for the
blood vessels also. It strengthens the sys-
tem and builds up, instead of taking away
strength. It makes good blood, and takes
inflammation from the lungs. It is the wish
of the writer that every periodical in the
United States, Canada and Europe should
publish this receipt for the benefit of the
human family. Lay this up and keep in
the house ready for use."
	WET AND DRY BATHING.—If any one in
these days will exercise in the open air, so
that each day he will perspire moderately,
and if he will wear thin under-garments, or
none at all, and sleep in a cold room, the
functions of the skin will suffer little or no
impediment, if water is withheld for
months. Indeed, bathing is not the only
way in which its healthful action can be
maintained by those living under the con-
ditions at present existing. Dry friction
over the whole surface of the body, once a
day, or once in two days, is often of more
service than the application of water.
	The reply of the centarian, to the inquiry
to what habit of life he attributed his good
health and extreme longevity, that he be-
lieved it due to "rubbing himself all over
with a cob every night," is significant of an
important truth. If invalids and persons of
low vitality would use dry friction and Dr.
Franklin's "air bath," every day for a con-

[Column 2]
siderable period, we are confident they
would often be greatly benefitted. Cleanli-
ness is next to godliness, no doubt, and a
proper and judicious use of water is to be
commended; but human beings are not
amphibious. Nature indicates, that the
functions of the skin should be kept in or-
der mainly by muscular exercise, by excit-
ing natural perspiration by labor; and, deli-
cious as is the bath, and healthful, under
proper regulation, it is no substitute for that
exercise of the body without which all the
functions become abnormal.—Dr. Nichol.


READING.
Dear Exponent:—
	This is essentially a reading age, and
Zion's children are not one whit behind
their worldly neighbors in this respect, es-
pecially her daughters. Our girls who are
growing up to womanhood, as a rule have
more or less spare time, which hangs heavy
on their hands. Therefore they take to
reading to while away the tedium of the
hour. But what is the nature of the read-
ing which they indulge in? Let us select
one of those fair daughters of Zion who is
at the time literally buried in books and pe-
riodicals. One from whose physique, per-
sonal appearance and native charms, under
a correct and pure culture might ennoble
her to grace and ornament any position in
society, and view what engrosses her atten-
tion. What a revulsion do our feelings
undergo, not at the sight of Bible, Book of
Mormon, "Juvenile Instructor," Woman's
Exponent and such like wishy washy com-
pilations. But hark! listen to the array of
literary gems which burst with dazzling
brilliancy upon our vision. Scintillations of
genius, not flashing at stated intervals like
meteors amid the heavens, but filling every
nook and corner from cellar to attic in the
vilest hovels in the land. Home Circles,
Literary Companions, Ledgers, Day's Do-
ings, Fireside Friends, &c. Sisters, pause,
reflect, consider. Ask yourselves the ques-
tion does the perusal of this "Home Circle"
which our Eastern friends (Heaven save the
mark) supply, tend to increase the happi-
ness of our own tangible "home circle?"
Does it fit and prepare us for the stern reali-
ties of life to which, as Saints of the Most
High, we should look forward? What is
the use of mincing matters? Does it in the
least prepare us to become mothers in Israel?
which should be one of our highest aims in
this world. Will it enable us to train those
miniatures of men and women which our
Heavenly Father may entrust to our care?
Or does it not fill us with romantic feelings
removed millions of miles above those and
other domestic duties which must necessa-
rily fall to our lot?
	Do our "Evening Posts" keep us posted
in the things which tend to improve our
mental or intellectual stature, teaching
us the things which will prove benefi
cial to us here and hereafter? Or is it
as the opium eater who by a course of
debauchery renders himself an imbecile
both in mind and body? Yea, disguise it
as we may, the awful truth stares us in the
face, that we are rapidly drifting towards
that God-forsaken state, when stimulants
are required to keep us from losing our men-
tal equilibrium. What could be more hor-
rible to contemplate! rational, reasoning
beings, the counterpart of their maker in
such a predicament! having a semblance
of God's creatures but utterly incapable of
filling the responsible positions required of
such. Not on account of the niggardly
hand of nature, but through a false course
of training. Like the pampered epicure,
the confirmed novel reader, when the
slightest break occurs in the stream of in-
toxicating fiction cries, Oh! give me some-
thing to supply the cravings of my appe-
tite. Present that to their vitiated appetites
which would prove wholesome, solid and
substantial food for the mind in a healthy
condition, and it is repulsed with scorn and
loathing. Who is going to remedy this
growing giant of evil in our midst? Will
preaching do it? Nay, or it would have
been accomplished years ago. Sisters this
is a home task and each one for herself or it
never will be accomplished. Therefore
weigh well what has been taught you in
this respect. Consider those your friends
who have the hardihood to tell you that
the course you are pursuing is an erroneous
one. Be up and alive to your duties, rather
have your name appear on the credit list of
your Heavenly Father's Ledger than on
that of our "New York friends." Harken
not to the sophisms of those whose gain it
is to supply you with these death diffusing
decoctions. Give the wholesome viands a
trial and rejoice ever after, as living reali-
ties; thanking God for your deliverance
from under the enthralling, debasing influ-
ence of fiction.			W. K. REID
	Manti, Sanpete Co., U. T.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS

Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.

		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
	FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP CORNER.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-

tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies

to purchase.

				CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4		 48.00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 8		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1874.		NO. 13.﻿


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	PRESIDENT GRANT thinks the Republican
party may recover their lost position by ju-
dicious proceedings. If the success of the
Democrats should be the cause of honest
and judicious governmental proceedings it
will have done great good.
	THE SUPREME court of the United States
has rendered a decision to the effect that
the legislative act, giving chancery and
common law jurisdiction to the probate
courts of this Territory, is inconsistent with
the organic act of the Territory which limi-
ted and defined the power of such courts,
and Is thereforo void. Another long con-
tested question settled.
	THE LADY to whom P. T. Barnum, Esq,
the great showman, was married in Dr.
Chapin’s Church, September 16th, is a
daughter of a retired Lancashire manufac-
turer, of whom Mr. Barnum has made
pleasant mention in his autobiography under
the head of an Enterprising Englishman.
This is Mr. John Fish, to whom and to
whose family Mr. Barnum has long been
known. The manager is now only taking
Mr. Greeley’s advice of years ago, when the
Museum was burned down, to go a fishing.
He has now caught a fish 30 years old, and
weighing about 140 pounds.
	THE LAKESIDE (Mich.) Register, of Oct.
7th, in a notice of Miss Susan B. Anthony’s
address at Muskegon, says:
	"Propositions were laid down and estab-
lished, arguments advanced and proven by
fact and illustration, and the American love
of justice and right so appealed to, that
probably not half a dozen persons left the
room without being convinced, at the close
of the meeting, that women are as much 
entitled as men to the elective franchise.
It is to be regretted that the canvass for Im-
partial Suraffge was not sooner begun and
more vigorously pressed. Had speeches in
its favor been made in every school district
of the State, the proposition would carry in
November by an overwhelming majority.
As it is, let the friends of the cause in this
city and county do all they can to roll up a
heavy vote on the 3rd day of November.”
 	IT'S NO sort of use to be in a hurry. We
never knew a fellow who was always in a
hurry, that wasn't always behindhand.
They are proverbial, all over the world, for
bringing nothing at all to pass. Hurry,
skurry, bluster, splatter—what does it all
amount to? Just nothing at all. If you
want to accomplish anything as it should be
done, you must go about it coolly, moder-
ately, faithfully. Hurrying, fretting, fum-
bling, spluttering, will do no good—not in
the least—but may do harm. Are great
works of great men done in a hurry? By
no means. They are the legitimate produce
of time and patience—the result of slow,
solid development. Nothing ought to be
done in a hurry. It is contrary to nature,
right, justice, and common sense. Your
man of hurry is no sort of character at all
worthy of imitation. Always in confusion,
loose at every point, unhinged and unjoint-
ed, blowing and puffing here and there, but
all ending in smoke, and never accomplish-

[Column 2]
ing anything to benefit himself or the
community.
	AN INTERESTING "habeas corpus" case was
tried before Judge Leland at Ottawa, Illnois,
lately. A boy was taken from the Orphan's
Home, Chicago, by John McCarthey, of Se-
rena, and kept a year and a half. The boy
seemed to like his home, and John and his
wife liked the boy. Finally the boy was
claimed by a German who either is or pre-
tends to be his father. A writ of "habeas
corpus" was sued out, and a hearing had on
the return. The pretended father and
mother swore that the boy was theirs, and
the boy had a very striking resemblance to
his pretended mother. An elder sister also
swore that the boy was her brother, Fred.
The boy, however, swore that neither the
man, woman nor girl is any of his. He said
his father died in Pennsylvania, and his
mother in Milwaukee, giving particulars,
and he did not wish to go back to Chicago,
as he said the claimants did not use him
well, and Judge Leland considered the
proofs insufficient on the part of the claim-
ants of the boy, and he went home with his
adopted father.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. Rose Lathrop, an artist, Hawthorne's
youngest daughter, is about to illustrate a
new edition of Mrs. Horace Mann's "Flow-
er People."
	MISS Sarah C. Woolsey, the popular writer
for children, better known to the public by
the nom de plume of "Susan Coolidge,"
has lately returned from Europe.
	JENNY Lind, now Madame Goldschmidt,
has been singing again, not exactly in pub-
lic, but before a number of the Earl of Lev-
en's tenants, at Glenferness House, who had
been invited to hear her.
	HELEN Jackson Cabot, Boston; Miss Eu-
genie Homer, Roxbury; Miss Susan Mitch-
ell Monroe, Cambridge; Miss Harriet Jo-
sephine Williams, Boston, were the success-
ful applicants at the preliminary examina-
tions for women at Harvard College.
	FOUR ladies of position in London have
become "home decorative artists." They
undertake the whole furnishing, upholster-
ing, furniture, and all that tends to embel-
lish the interior of a dwelling. They are
said to be remarkably clever and very suc-
cessful. They have served a regular ap-
prenticeship and acquired a thorough know-
ledge of the business.
	ANNA E. Dickenson, who has had such
bad health during the past summer that
much of the time she has been confined to
her room, is again in the lecture field. She
has lately presented to the public, a lecture
on "Joan of Arc," which is said to surpass
all her former productions. She will proba-
bly go to Europe.
	CHARLOTTE Cushman bade farewell to
the New York stage on the 7th ult. It was
an imposing scene. There was a great
gathering of celebrities, a poem by R. H.
Stoddard, an address by William Cullen
Bryant, and a reply by Miss Cushman, in

[Column 2]
which she referred to her early struggles,
saying that her necessities taught her that
to succeed she must be in earnest.
	MISS Anna Snow was just getting up to
leave a train of cars at Newburyport, some
two weeks ago, having ridden from Boston,
when she found a roll of bills of large amount
in her lap, but how they came there she 
could not tell. She advertised them, and
on Friday a man proved them to be his,
though he was not on the train the day they
were found, and had never been at New-
buryport.
	MATILDA Fletcher, during the past year,
has lectured one hundred nights, has trav-
elled seven thousand miles, has written a
book upon "Practical Ethics" for schools
and families, and has invented, to illustrate
it, a beautiful chart, so that a child can com-
prehend with ease their mutual relations.
She has also prepared three new lectures,
two of which, "The Heart of a Man," and
"What Can You Do?" were given to the
public last winter and met with great popu-
larity. The other one, significantly styled
"The Ethics of Marriage," will be preson-
ted for the first time during the coming
season.


GOOD MANNERS BY PRESCRIPTION.
	When the widow of Peter the Great as-
scended the throne of Russia, the women
of that empire were yet slaves in every
sense of the word. The empress conceived
the desire of raising them to the rank which
the women of the remainder of Europe oc-
cupied; she patronized the introduction of
English fashions; the women discontinued
living in their appartments alone; they re-
ceived company, paid visits, and formed
meetings. But the empress was not long
discovering that it was a matter of no lit-
tle difficulty to introduce all at once a prop-
er principle of decorum and steadiness
among women who till then had had no
ideas of their own. Her majesty conse-
quently published an order of observance,
the following of which are a few of the ar-
ticles of this curious document:—A lady
desirous of giving a party, must first give
notice to the members of both sexes, either
through cards of invitation or otherwise.
The party must not begin before four or five
o'clock.	*	*	*	*	*	*
Any one may come when he likes; it is suf-
ficient to be presented to the company. Any
one may, according to his inclination, sit
down, walk about, or play, and no one has a
right to disturb him, under pain of empty-
ing the great eagle (a large bottle of brandy).
It is only necessary to salute the company
at arriving and leaving.
It is forbidden to women to get tipsy, un-
der any pretext whatever; and to men, to
inebriate themselves before nine o'clock.
The ladies in playing at forfeits, at cross
questions and answers, &c., will be cautious
not to compel them to be kissed; should any one
strike them, he is to be expelled from the company."


It is one of the curiosities of natural his-
tory that a horse enjoys his food most when
he hasn't a bit in his mouth.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


SONG OF THE SISTERS OF THE
			RELIEF SOCIETY.
		By EMILY H. WOODMANSES.

As sisters in Zion, We'll all pull together,
	The blessings of God on our labors we'll seek:
We'll build up His kingdom with earnest endeavor;
	We'll comfort the weary, and strengthen the weak.

We'll turn from our follies, our pride and our weakness,
	The vain, foolish fashions of Babel despise;
We'll seek for the garments of truth and of meekness,
	And learn to be useful and happy and wise.

We'll wear what is sensible, neat and becoming
	The daughters of Zion—the angels of light:
We'll work with a will while the angels are scanning
	Our aims and our actions from morning till night.

We'll bring up our children to be self-sustaining;
	To love and to do what is noble and right;
When we rest from our labors, these dear ones remaining,
	Will bear off the kingdom and "fight the good fight."

Nor shall our attention be wholly restricted
	To training our children or shaping our dress;
The aged, the feeble, the poor and afflicted,
	Our labors shall comfort, our efforts shall bless.

"The Lord hath established the cities of Zion,
	The poor of His people are trusting in Him,"
He makes us a source for His poor to rely on;
	Oh! shall we not brighten the eyes that are dim.

Oh! shall we not hasten to soothe the condition
	Of the humble, the needy, the honest and pure?
Oh! let us remember, whate'er our ambition—
	'Tis our duty, our mission, to comfort the poor.

'Tis the office of angels, conferred upon woman;
	And this is a right that, as women, we claim;
To do whatsoever is gentle and human;
	To cheer and to bless in humanity's name

How vast are our labors; how broad is our mission,
	If we only fulfill it in spirit and deed;
Oh! naught but the Spirit's divinest tuition—
	Can give us the wisdom to truly succeed.

Then, as sisters in Zion, we'll all pull together;
	The blessing of God on our labors we'll seek;
We'll build up the kingdom with earnest endeavor;
	We'll comfort the weary and strengthen the weak.


R. S. REPORTS.
		Third Ward, Salt Lake City,
					Nov. 9th, 1874.
	Dear Editor:—I take pleasure in giving
you a brief report of the Dedication of our
new Relief Society House, which took place
on the 3rd inst. President Daniel H. Wells
and Elder George Q. Cannon being present.
	The meeting was opened by singing, "I
saw a mighty angel fly:" The Dedicatory
Prayer was offered by Elder George Q. Can-
non: Singing, "How beautious are their
feet. Remarks were then made by Presi-
dent Daniel H. Wells. He spoke of the
great benefit that had been derived from
the labors of the Relief Societies, of their
zeal and faithfulness in the discharge of
their duties; spoke encouragingly of home
productions; thought we could produce
right here in our wards many articles that
were now being imported; also spoke on
the extravagance of dress, felt that much of
the means thus expended should be appro-
priated to the building of temples. He of-
fered a few words on Plural Marriage, said
it was a revelation from high Heaven and it
was for the exaltation of both man and
woman. He also spoke upon the impor-
tance of the education of our children.
	Elder George Q. Cannon felt that the time
was far spent, and would not speak many
minutes. He spoke upon the great field of
labor that lay before the sisters, of visiting
the different settlements, of the ignorance
he had seen in regard to cooking; thought
the sisters who understood that branch of
business could instruct those who did not,
for if we wish to have healthy bodies we
must have our food prepared in a proper
manner. He exhorted mothers to talk with
their sons and daughters and try to wield a


good influence over them, and great results
would follow. He spoke of the sons of He-
laman, the faith and confidence they had
in what their mother said; felt that we
could have noble sons and daughters if we
choose. He also spoke upon home product-
ions, named many articles that were being
imported that could be produced right here
at home of much better quality.
	Bishop Weiler concluded the addresses
by saying that the instructions which had
been given were good. He spoke in be-
half of the Society, told the costs of the
house, said it was the united energy of the
sisters that had built it, and that they had
asked but very little donations and it was
nearly paid for. He said it was built for
the general use of the Ward and communi-
ty; he thought the sisters should retrench
from so much labor and toil when they in-
vite company, things could be made as
pleasant and agreeable with a great deal
less work. He spoke of the Young Ladies'
Association in this Ward, of introducing
different kinds of labor that may throw out
inducements and make it more interesting
for them in meeting together.
	The choir sang "Praise ye the Lord."
Benediction by President D. H. Wells.
		Zurviah G. Eardley, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
		A HOME OF OUR OWN.

			CONCLUDED.

	Fourth.—It must be easy to manage.
	The more we reduce the mere drudgery of
housekeeping, the higher will be Woman's
place in the home, because she will have
time to labor as the true housewife, instead
of the mere house slave; to use her forces
in the higher kind of service for which she
is, or ought to make herself, competent.
To arrive as near to this as we can, is one of
the points to study in building a house.
Before the parlor chandelier is thought of,
the kitchen range should be discussed; every
labor-saving device should be examined; all
the cook's implements arranged to her hand;
her fuel so placed that she need not lug it
up from the cellar; water should flow freely
in and out of her premises; her kitchen
should be not only handy, but comfortable
and cheerful, all of which will enable the mis-
tress to command a choice of help, or to do
her own work with less toil when left
alone.
	We begin with the kitchen, but of course
the principle applies all through the house,
and, taking still for our standard the maxi-
mum amount of home enjoyment with the
minimum amount of drudgery, we will go
to the dining-room. Suppose that instead
of costly china we resolve to use nothing
but plain white ware, which is pretty, light,
inexpensive, and easily matched when bro-
ken. Down drops one bundle of care from
the housewife's lot. Then suppose, instead
of precious silver, we decide to use only
plate, which is equally pretty, equally clean,
which no thief cares to steal, and which, if
lost, would cause no deep distress. Down
drops another portion of care from her load.
	Next we shall make a raid on the dining-
room carpet, which is certainly one of the
greatest inconsistencies in American house-
keeping. If we could divest ourselves of
tradition and association, we should cer-
tainly feel that the floor on which we tread,
and especially the floor over which we eat, is
not the place whereon to spread a dainty,
expensive, uncleansable fabric.
	But should we not study beauty as well
as comfort? Carpet furnishes a room, and
is in itself pretty!"

[Column 2]
	Yes; but the first essential to beauty is its
fitness to its object. We might carpet our
front steps and pavement with the loveliest
of Wilton's, but the effect will not be pleas-
ing; and on a floor the same unfitness exists
in a less degree.
	Carpets must be uncleanly, and therefore
unwholesome. A teacher, speaking of the
gymnastic exercises in a fashionable young
ladies' school, remarked to me that while
they were in motion the air was filled with
a fine perceptable dust, which must have
arisen chiefly from their clothing and bodies.
Of course much of this was such effete mat-
ter as ought, for the sake of health, to be
speedily got rid of, and of course the ordi-
nary daily movings to and fro, in a room set
afloat such particles, a large proportion of
which are received by the carpet, and only
partially removed by sweeping.
	No floor-covering is perfect that cannot be
easily washed; it may be that the fitting ar-
ticle does not exist; but if so, it is only be-
cause the need for it has not been gener-
ally realized. There is but one commodity
in Christendom (the servant girls) for which
demand does not create corresponding sup-
ply. There is a material made of cork
which seems to approach the idea. We are
using oilcloth, which I confess is not the
perfect substitute, but oh, what peace!
The dogs may lie down in the hall, and it
only needs sweeping, the children may drop
their bread at dinner, butter side down, and
it only needs wiping. In fact, both this and
the plated ware lead us to the sort of peace
we are promised, where neither moth nor
dust doth corrupt, nor thieves break through
and steal.
	Next, suppose we carry our iconoclasm
into the chambers, substituting for woolen
floor coverings, handsome oiled floors, and,
as in Europe, laying strips of carpeting
only where they are really needed; suppose
we discard the worse than useless bed hang-
ings, valances, pillow-shams, lamberquins,
toilet-draperies; in fine, every yard of
troublesome upholster's petticoating that
serves no honest purpose. A late traveler in
Japan says the first thing that struck him in
the Japanese house was the airiness and
roominess of the medium sized apartments,
resulting from the absence of cumbrous
furniture. Each article, however exquis-
itely finished, was light; the lounges were
of some elastic woven material; the floors
were simply matted. They call our style of
furnishing unclean.
	I admit that, in our climate, there are
about three months in the year when car-
pets and drapery give a sense of comfort, but
only the housekeeper knows at what an in-
crease of care. Again, I say, therefore,
down with upholstery! Down with horse-
hair stuffing, except for grandmother's arm-
chair; down with all the corpulent things
that stand about in parlors, and nobody sits
on if they can help it; down with satin
things that fray, and velvet things that
must be covered with other things, and dam-
ask curtains that must be protected by other
curtains, and exquisite door-mats that must
be flanked with other mats; down with all
the gorgeous, unwashable flimsy lace and
silk and gilt things that demand the whole
attention of an immortal soul to keep them
from dust and flies.
	Fifth—It should be beautiful.
	The money we have saved by our re-
trenchment we shall not hoard, for that
would not be true economy; but straightway
proceed to expend in other directions for
outer beauty of form and inner decoration.
I think the taste for gorgeousness, being
barbaric, must tend rather to decrease than


[Column 1]
increase the progress of civilization. The
more our minds are awakened to the beauty
of form and texture in natural objects, and
the grandeur of natural effects the less in
proportion will be our interest in the clum-
sier forms and coarse textures of artificial
objects and upholsterer's effects, except so
far as they succeed in imitating nature. The
richest velvet carpet one step inside our
door is poor and tawdry compared with the
carpet of greensward just one step outside.
The most elaborate achievement in worsted
embroidery would feel ashamed if set down
in a patch of June clover. The costliest
drapery of lace looped on this side of our
window-pane is raw indeed beside the
hangings of an elegant spider on the other
—festoonings every thread of which the
morning has strung with pearls. The most
magnificent gilded or even inlaid table, is
commonplace in the presence of a home-
made, bark-covered jardiniere of ferns.
	The other day, after making a certain call,
I remarked to a friend that I had been in a
very beautiful house; in attempting to de-
scribe it, however, the whole impression re-
solved itself into a remembrance of flowers
in a finely-shaped vase, of dried autumn
leaves against a softly tinted wall, and above
all of an exquisite climbing fern, with
which some artistic hand had adorned a pic-
ture frame. Not one ray of varnish or gilt
or any furniture shop glory could I recall.
Some furniture, however, we needs must
have, and therein we should give much at-
tention to forms and colors, and compara-
tively little to costiliness of texture; bet-
ter an ingrain carpet, rag carpet, no carpet,
with harmony of color, than all the upholstery
of Solomon's temple without it. Especially
should we study the tinting of our walls,
with reference to pictures. Again, the
floor must harmonize, not only with the
walls, but with the wood work—in regard
to which I believe it is now generally allowed
that the grain of the commonest wood is
more beautiful than paint. But we need
not linger in truisms; one point only I would
suggest in this connection; whether it is
not possible to go too far in our denuncia-
tions of cheap art, as found in plaster statu-
ary and chromos? I mean, of course, plas-
ter casts of good marbles, and copies of
good pictures; we would all rather own the
marble Apollo if we could afford it, but the
plaster gives us nearly the form and spirit
at a few dollars cost. And in pictures, take
the popular chromo called "Easter Morn-
ing," it is undeniably hard and raw when
compared with the original, and yet enough
remains of the artist's feeling to make it a
daily pleasure to its possessor. As to their
decreasing in value for being possessed by
others, that feeling is surely unworthy of
attention.
	Lastly—it must be homely.
	I know a room occupied by two little girls,
which is, so to speak, a home within a home,
so stored is it with their treasures and dec-
orated with their own little funny orna-
ments. I know another home within a
home, inhabited by two women, where al-
most every article has its pleasant associa-
tion and special name; there is a tall, old-
fashioned chest of drawers, and squeezed in
beside it, a narrow book-case, which two
are known as the mare and colt; there is a
rocking chair always called the Maria after
the giver; there are a shovel and tongs with
big, smooth, round heads, which answer to
the names of W. Penn and wife; there are
two warm wrappers in the wardrobe named
Comfort and Faithful; there is in the work-
basket a little egg-shaped box, made to hold
a spool and needle-book, made precious by

[Column 2]
the dents of two little teeth so many years
ago. Altogether it seems as if the furni-
ture in that home had received a personality
from long companionship with its owners,
which things brought staring fine from any
one shop could not possess. If this be a lit-
tle fanciful, it is surely true. But our own
home should not be like the one next door,
or the one round the corner, even if these
were better, but should express the charac-
ter of its especial inmates. And I would
choose for its living room the largest, sun-
niest room in the house; I would array it
with the most beautiful things our means
could afford; and there should be nothing
in it too good to be used; and if the family
comprised a man, wife and seven children,
every one of the nine should have a chance
to let his or her own life speak in it; the
piano should be there, and the work-basket,
and the writing-desk; and somewhere should
be a corner for Totty's baby-house, and
there should be a shelf in the book-case for
juvenile reading, and there must be plenty,
plenty of flowers. And that room should 
be the heart of that home, the place where
the new magazines are, the place to find
mother, the place for the open fire, the place
to make a circle for the family song or hymn
before bedtime, the place to long for when
at boarding-school, the place to keep a heart-
picture of when away in foreign lands; the
central jewel in the crown of social life, an
economical, well-managed, beautiful Ameri-
can Home.—Christian Union.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A FEW WORDS IN BEHALF OF AN
		ABSENT FRIEND.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	If it is not trespassing on your generosity,
I would like to speak through your columns
to my sisters, of Sister Eleanor Pratt de-
ceased. Who will remember her? Those
who knew her best. She had faults few
but virtues many. She was ever zealous in
the cause of the gospel of Jesus Christ; it
was her theme by day and night. In her
teachings in the day school she endeavored
to instill into the minds of the youth a love
for Jesus. She was a mother at home and
a friend among friends. The last time I
heard her musical voice sing, it was "Come
to the supper of the great Bride-groom,"
the tune by herself chosen. My soul was
filled with ecstacy, and as she sang it seemed
as though the very air enjoyed, and echoed
back in answer, "She will be there." I
shall ever remember her with pleasant rec-
ollections. I was intimately acquainted with
her twenty-seven years; it was her lot to drink
deep of joy and of sorrow. In speaking of
the virtues of friends both living and dead,
we are often reminded by some thoughtless,
unfeeling one of their faults. To such I
say, be still, let God judge between the right
and the wrong, the just and the unjust.
						I'LL TRY.


WHEN you go a fishing, be sure and take
a "bite" before you start, for you may not
get one after.
	Two Chinese students were admitted re-
cently to the Yale College Scientific Depart-
ment. They passed the examination most
creditably, and gave promise of superior
scholarship. There are now sixty Chinese
students supported by their Government in
Connecticut and Massachusetts. Thirty
came two years ago, thirty arrived a year
since, and thirty more are soon expected.
So far their deportment has been excellent
and their progress quite remarkable.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	IN China twenty-two different societies
have established more than 300 mission
stations and out-stations, and the number
of church members is variously estimated
from 6,000 to 10,000.
	MARIA M. Simpson, of Boston, recently
bequeathed $1500 to a domestic during her
life, and after her death the principal to go
to the Association of the Home of the Good
Samaritan.
	ONE-THIRD of the unskilled laborers in
New York are idle. A population of 90,000
are really in want. They have had no em-
ployment for six months, and none is ex-
pected till spring, at soonest.
	MARSHALL Bazaine is described by the
French police as being six feet and a half
inch in height, stout, 65 years of age. His
ferohead is said to be low, and his hair
short and turning to gray.
	EXPERIMENTS have recently been made
at Liverpool with a new masthead light, in-
tended for ocean steamers. It throws a fine,
brilliant, white light, and can be seen dis-
tinctly five miles. The light is made from
a powder, and is thrown through a magnify-
ing glass, something on the magic-lantern
plan.
	THE yield of fruit in Rhode Island this
year, surpasses that of almost any other
year in its history, and the people have
hopes that the State is regaining the repu-
tation for fruit-raising it once had. Besides
the larger fruits there is a considerable crop
of cultivated cranberries, the towns of Ex-
eter and Richmond alone yielding from 8,
000, to 10,000 bushels.
	LEWISTON, Me., has ten cotton mills and
five woolen mills, with an estimated capi-
tal of $7,500,000, consuming 35,000 bales
of cotton per year, employing 7,544 hands,
and distributing over $3,000,000 per year,
chiefly to labor, producing 35,000,000 yards
of goods and nearly 3,000,000 grain bags.
the total value of manufacturers last year
was $11,500,000.
	THE German daily papers of Cincinnati are
discussing the question of the length of the
daily school sessions. One suggests that
for the winter the hours be from eight to
eleven, and from one to three for the small-
er scholars, and to four o'clock for the lar-
ger ones. Another favors from half-past
eight to half-past eleven, and from two to
four.
	A WOMAN recently died in Paris at the
age of forty-three from bulimia, or an ex-
cess of appetite. She ate every day an av-
erage of six and a half pounds of bread and
on half-pound of meat. It required about
nine pounds of bread to completely satisfy
her. She earned about a half dollar per
day as a needle woman and was obliged to
expend the whole for food.


HORACE GREELEY once spoke thus wise-
ly upon a question of great interest to all
farmers: "Our farmers' sons escape from
their calling whenever they can, because it
is made a mindless, monotonous drudgery,
instead of an ennobling, liberalizing, intel-
lectual pursuit. Could I have known in my
youth what a business farming sometimes
is, always may be, and yet generally shall
be, I would never have sought nor chosen
any other."


A TALE of thrilling interest—The rattle-
snake's.﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	
		L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one 
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays,
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1874


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
	
			 LOCAL.
	Governor Woods sang in the 14th Ward
choir on a recent Sunday......Thanks-giving
Day was a hungry time for some folks who
failed to lay in a sufficient supply of food
before the shops were closed; they are
thankful it is over......The Z. C. M. I. retail
grocery department has been purchased by
David Day & Co.......The people of Sanpete
have petitioned for a daily mail......A School
Teachers' examination was held in the Uni-
versity building on the 28th ult........Mr.
Mayo has been personating Davy Crockett
at the Theatre.		
			FOREIGN.
	Tailors in China are not favorably im-
pressed with the introduction of sewing
machines, they have an idea it will cheapen
labor......An unusually heavy shock of earth-
quake recently occurred in Chili, South
America......Church reforms have been for-
cibly introduced in Poland by the govern-
ment, and serious riots have been thereby
occasioned......A dispatch from London says
that during a recent gale, five Yarmouth
fishing crafts were supposed to have been
lost with all on board......Improvements are
noted in the wheat market of England......
In Hendaye, Spain, the weather has been so
severe that military opperations are sus-
pended.
			PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Duniway lectures on "The Destiny of
our Republic"......Mrs. Blake and Mrs. Flynt
talk about "Dress Reform"......Mrs. Stanton
gives information concerning "President and
People"......Miss Kate Field has taken to
theatrical performances......Mrs. Howe tells
about "Finance"......Mrs. Livermore is said
to have accomplished more good in the lec-
ture field than any man ever did, Charles
Dickens not excepted......Mrs. Holden of
Chicago calls attention to the "Physical Edu-
cation of Girls."
		     POLITICAL
	The government estimates, it is reported,
will average six or seven millions this year
below what they were last year......General
Banks refuses to be a candidate for the
speakership of the next House of Repre-
sentatives.......Speaker Blain will not be a
candidate for the United States senatorship
from Maine......Grant now laughs at the
idea of his being re-elected for a third term
as President.......Washington Territory, as
reported, "has gone republican"......Arizona
has about "half a dozen" candidates for
Congress, or at least, two.
		     GENERAL.
	Seven hundred girls find employment in
the silk factories of New Jersey......The
majority of the male population of Switzer-
land die before they attain their fiftieth
year......A new agent called "carboleum" has
lately been discovered, and it is thought,
will supersede steam......A woman's college
has been established at Little Rock, Ark.....
A rule has been adopted in Pennsylvania to
prohibit the peddling of newspapers, novels,
candies, &c., on the cars........The yellow
fever, which has raged for some time in
Pensacola, has abated......A number of fail-
ures of prominent business men have lately
been reported......Two Texas men have
gone to Europe to make plans for the immi-
gration of people who may wish to come
from Europe and settle in Texas.....There
are said to be no millionaires in Turkey......
Madrid is now a poor place for business or
to live in, every body is poor there......Plano,
Kendall county, Ill., is without a saloon;
the last saloon license has expired and the

[Column 2]
Trustees refuse to grant any more.........
mother and daughter, of Madison, Ill.,
were recently fatally burned by the explo-
sion of a coal-oil lamp......White gros grain
is now fashionably used for trimming on
black and dark colored velvet bonnets.


PRESERVE YOUR PAPERS.

	A few weeks since, we happened to be present
when a Swedish brother was making inqui
ries of a gentleman concerning words and fig-
ures on a paper which he had received from
the tax collector. The paper was to inform
him that his taxes for the present year were
due and that he had been delinquent in last
year's payment. How could it mean that, the
man wanted to know, when he had another
paper which had been given him and which
he produced to show that last year his taxes
were all paid. Sure enough the mistake had
been made by the assessor and collector, who
must have failed to credit the man in his book,
for payment of which he had given a receipt
But the Swedishman had wisely preserved
the receipt, the presentation of which would
be sufficient to save him the necessity of pay-
ing his taxes twice for one year.
	Lately an assertion was officially made
against a gentleman who is a native of Great
Britain, in which he was said to be not a citi-
zen of the United States. But being able to
produce the recorded certificate of his naturali-
zation, the matter was put at rest.
	Some persons in this Territory have not
proved so lucky, from the simple fact of their
not having learned in years past, the impor-
tance of preserving papers, which might
then have seemed of little consequence, but
would now be of great value could they be
produced.


[Column 1]
		SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR.

	I think myself fully authorized to say, there
never was a time since the creation of the
world, when men and women too, were so anx-
ious to moralize, reform, and remodel society
as at the present day. In fact some spirit or
other seems propelling the masses of mankind
towards a revolution, reformation or organiza-
tion of all things. They cry out against this
and that public evil, extravagance, sin and
wickedness, and each one seems to think that
his or her theory, if put in practice, would ef-
fect a radical change in the affairs of men; and
there are as many remedies offered for repair-
ing society as there are quack medicines for
benefiting the sick; and they are, altogether,
about as valueless and inappropriate. They
talk of reforming when many of the books
they write, the sermons they preach, the lec-
tures they give, political speeches, etc. are in
[Column 2]
themselves calculated to bring discord and
confusion in their wake.
	Those in particular who clamor loudest in
public, showing up people's faults in the most
glaring and objectionable light, are sowing the
seeds of disunion and misery, and inclining
those, who are full of hatred, malice and envy
to the most extreme measures. The principles
they advance are the ones most opposed to
peace and harmony; demoralizing rather than
elevating; they bring up the most hideous and
revolting phase of modern society; and one
would think to hear them lecture, or read their
works, that virtue in either man or woman, in
public or private life, had fled from the earth,
and that we were fast degenerating into a race
of animals destitute of any inherent superior-
ty or refinement, retrograding towards Dar-
winism.
	These extremists tell some very naked truths
perhaps, but who is benefited? and who that
possesses a particle of innate purity, does not
shrink from such indelicate language, such
daring defiance of public opinion, when coming
from a woman? and indeed, what have they to
offer as an antidote to this moral pestilence
pervading polite society?
	Although I entirely disagree with this class
of public lecturers, yet I believe there are those
who are really inspired with "zeal according to
knowledge;" desiring to elevate woman to a
higher position and a truer sphere than she has
filled in the past. Not by destroying men's
influence, or undermining their individual
character or standing in society; but helping to
do what men have assuredly failed to see was
for their own advantage—giving women a su-
perior education, such as their brothers enjoy,
and are considered rightfully entitled to, which
will give them a thorough understanding of
the government of their country, and according
to them also the right of suffrage, and to have
voice in choosing and nominating their rulers
equally with men; granting they have been
previously qualified. If, I say, they can be al-
lowed a few of these privileges, exclusive
hitherto, they may greatly benefit public so-
ciety and sentiment. I accede the point, that
men are calculated to lead out, and for this very
reason should be tender towards WOMAN,
thoughtful of all her needs instead of crushing
in her the germ of inherent womanhood im-
planted by the author of her being, for her own
individual development and happiness, and
not alone to give her grace and favor in the
sight of men.
	It strikes me forcibly, that girls have been
taught to train themselves more especially for
the attention of the other sex, than is consis-
tent with womanly dignity and self-respect.
From the first burst of incipient womanhood,
her education and training has this peculiar
bearing and tendency to attract some man who
suits her fancy, and who will be willing to re-
lieve her father and mother, or guardians of
her support, and keep her all the remainder of
her life. And she looks forward to this as the
crowning point of her earthly existence, and
neglectful of self-culture, self-training, moral,
physical, or mental development, looks out for
a husband, who will take her with all her
faults, (throwing a few "personal charms" in-
to the scale, by way of recompense) make
her his wife, his companion, his bosom
friend, supply her with delicacies and
luxuries, and crown her with his true and ex-
clusive earthly love. That few succeed in ob-
taining any real happiness, and that many
fail, we are witnesses daily. That women
should understand they were created for a no-
bler purpose than to attract the admiration of
men or gain a few years pleasure by being the


[Column 1]
favorite of fortune or the belle of some fash-
ionable circle, is certainly highly necessary.
And when women attain to some real genuine
worth, when they show themselves less mind-
ful of men's attention, more independent,
more dignified, are more desirous to diffuse
sunshine at home, than to win praises abroad,
then we shall expect men to honor, as well as
admire and appreciate them.
	I look forward to a day not far distant, when
women will be endowed with such superiority
of intellect and intelligence, possess so much
goodness, sincerity, and purity, that men will
award a voluntary tribute to their invaluable
worth. I grant you the case is widely differ-
erent now; but strive my sisters to live pure
lives. Cultivate in yourselves spiritual as well
as mental gifts; pray for the Holy Spirit to
help you to shun temptation. If you live such
lives; you cannot fail to have the approval of
your conscience; which is far better than hav-
ing the love of a good and true man without it.
But, believe me, the time is sure to come, when
we will be known, appreciated and loved, not
according to our manifold personal attractions,
but for real, genuine, sincerity and truthful-
ness.
	I know that custom, habit, education and
tradition, have made it natural to women, to
court and expect admiration from the other
sex, and if a woman deviates from this, she is
looked upon with suspicion, and set down
either as a fool, or oddity, or assuming an un-
real character. Yet there are women who, 
true to themselves, in disregard of the cus-
toms of society, dare to come and go alone,
and who will not accept this sentiment, fancy,
passion, or whatever name you choose to call
it by, this tribute to mere personal charms,
this counterfeit article, which passes current
for true affection. If we understood human
nature better, we should not be so often mis-
led in these things, and it would save tens of
thousands of heart-aches.
	Let us, as rational beings, make every exer-
tion in our power to elevate woman and in-
spire within her characteristics befitting her
future position as wife and mother; qualify
and educate her concerning the laws of life
and health, and her own bodily organization;
that there may be no lack of duty through
ignorance.
	Girls, it was to bring about a new order of
things, (a new phase of society if you will) to
establish laws and principles beneficial to the
advancement of the human family (through
revelation and commandment) that we moth-
ers have been willing to lay aside our precon-
ceived notions, training, and moral education
according to the Christian world, and lay all
we held dear upon the alter of our faith, that
OUR daughters might be nobler, purer, better
than ourselves, for these and similar blessings
we entered into the sacred covenant. Not for
pleasure, happiness or enjoyment here, not ex-
pecting it in many instances, but for some-
thing far nobler, grander and more endurable;
that our children might be BORN HEIRS to the
covenant and promise made to Abraham
through the Holy Priesthood. For this we
have endured persecution, have toiled and suf-
fered. Eor this we left our homes and came to
this barren wilderness; counting our afflictions
and sorrows as naught, because we knew our
true position and its future bearing upon our
posterity. And we must not falter now. We
must not shrink from further endurance be-
cause we have not succeeded according to our
most ardent and hopeful expectations. Let us
examine ourselves carefully and see whether
we have suffered any untoward circumstance
to have influence over us; let us look back over

[Column 2]
the web of life we have been weaving with
such fortitude and patience, and see if we
have not dropped here and there a thread, very
fine perhaps, scarcely perceptible to the un-
practised eye, but that have marred the beauty
of the work we expected would have been so
near perfect. Let us redouble our diligence,
faithfulness, and prayers, that we may fortify
ourselves against temptation and claim the
blessings we have been promised as a reward
for our sacrifices.
	Young ladies, you have every reason to be
proud of your mothers—do not let any FALSE
pride influence you in this matter. Your birth
is honorable whether the world acknowledges
it or not. Have no fears this is not our own
work, it is the work of God and He is abun-
dantly able to sustain it and He will; we know
in whom we believe, our anchor is sure and
steadfast if we endure unto the end. We have
had something to live for, which has sustained
us in the most trying and difficult places; we
are not destitute of natural feeling as many
think we are. It is because we possess some-
thing of more real value than the world, that
they cannot understand us; because we have
really and truly Something to live for.
							B. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	AT HAMPTON'S Station, Box Elder Co., the
postoffice has been discontinued.
	A FREE University Library and Reading
Room is open at the University Building every
evening—Sundays excepted we suppose—from
6 till 10.
	MR. JAMES Dunn has recently been appoint-
ed superintendent of the Provo Woolen Fac-
tory; Bishop Myron Tanner having resigned
that position.
	IN CACHE county, nearly all the young men
are appointed home missionaries, to visit in
turns the different settlements—generally in
company with elder brethren—to bear testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and learn to
illustrate its principles. Exceedingly favorable
results are apparent from the adoption of this
plan.
	AN INTERESTING account is given of a con-
ference for Morgan and northern Summit
counties, lately held in Morgan city, Morgan
Co., Utah. The reports of Bishops from the
various settlements which they represented
were very satisfactory, showing that in general,
the spirit of the Saints in those parts was to
seek unitedly the interests of the Kingdom of
God. Bishop W. W. Cluff presided, and Sam-
uel Francis was clerk of the Conference.


[Column 1]
		  FLORAL HINTS.

	The "American Garden" gives the follow-
ing instructions concerning soil for plants in
pots:
	"It is the common error of amatures and
of some professional gardeners to suppose
that the proper cultivation of green-house
plants a large variety of soils is necessary.
In a work published by an eminent nursery-
man in this country some years ago, no less
than nineteen different combinations of sev-
en different soils are given as necessary to
be used in growing the various plants there
enumerated. To decide which may be the
best soil for the particular plant which he is
growing, leads the cultivator into endless
confusion; while putting his decision in
practice leads to unnecessary trouble and
labor in preparing the composts.
	"In Europe, especially in England,
the atmosphere is so much more moist and
cool than with us—although the annual
rainfall is not greater, if as great as in our
[Column 2]
climate, that plants thrive there in soil which
here would be too light. The drain upon 
the resources of the plant, in our climate,
requires that it should be more substan-
tially fed. As an instance;—Azeleas, Rho-
dodendrons, Camellias, Ericas, Acacias,
Chorizemas, and like plants are grown in
England in sandy peat or in compost largely
composed of it, while with us they do far
better when grown in fresh loam, without
any mixture of peat or leaf mold. In our
own practice we have found that with
good, fresh, loam, without any admixtrue
of sand, leaf-mold or peat or rotted manure,
we can successfully and satisfactorialy grow
almost all of the ordinary greenhouse
plants.
	"There are some exceptions, it is true, 
but they are few. Ferns, Greenhouse Ter-
restrial Orchids, Chinese Primroses and some
things of that sort may require a soil in a
greater or less degree composed of leaf
mold or peat, but the greenhouse hard
wooded plants are better withous it. And
so of Fuchsias, Pelargoniums, Carnations,
Cinerarias, and soft wooded greenhouse
plants generally. They are better for not
having manure mixed with the loam in
which they are grown. The peat and ma-
nure induce a rank growth that is altogeth-
er unnecessary in plants grown by amateurs;
and only necessary for florists in order to
get their young plants as large as possible in
the shortest time—their customers being
guided more by quantity than quality.
The stimulating qualities are soon exhaust-
ed by the exuberant growth of the plant;
it ceases growing and, starved for want of
its exciting food; becomes a somewhat de-
plorable looking object to the purchaser.
If desired to have healthy; bushy plants
covered with a profusion of flowers, it is
best to omit such materials from the com-
post and to rely upon such soil as will pro-
duce a less stimulated growth. If manure
is necessary, and it is so at some periods of
the growth of soft wooded plants, it should
be given in the form of dilute manure wa-
ter. Such periods are just before or at the
time when the plant begins to form its
flower buds, and whilst it is blooming, as
then there is a greater drain upon the vi-
tality of the plant and it needs extra feed-
ing.
	"The best loam for potting purposes is ob-
tained from old pastures or from the grassy
banks of roadsides. It should be taken out
about six inches deep and thrown into a
heap, grass side downwards, to secure de-
cay. The loam should be light and friable
and from well drained land. If it be clayey,
sharp sand should be mixed with it, and if
no pit sand can be obtained, clean road sand
will answer a good purpose. Real peat soil
is very scarce in this country, and we are
obliged to substitute leaf mold. This can be
best obtained in the woods by raking off the
loose leaves and rubbish and taking off the
underlying top soil to a depth of two or
three inches. It can frequently be had in
greater depth in depressed places or basins
in the soil, where the leaves have been
washed by the rains, but should not be ta-
ken from places where the water remains
and becomes stagnant. When gathered it
should be laid in heaps for further decay.
	"Manure should be rotted for eighteen
months or two years before being used and
should be turned over three or four times
during that period. The soil for repotting
should, previous to use, be screened through
a coarse sieve—about half an inch mesh—
to rid it of pebbles, sticks or other extrane-
ous matters. But when seeds are to be
sown in it, a finer sieve—a quarter inch
mesh or a little less—may be used."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


For the EXPONENT.
		THE FISHERMAN'S HOME.

The sun with his glowing beams had passed
	The bound'ry of earth and sky;
The tranquil season of love and rest,
	The twilight hour was nigh.
The wind in fitful murmers rang
	Through tower and cliff and tree,
The waves gently heaving in soft cadence sang
	A sweet, sad song of the sea.

Low, where the hills came bending down,
	To a small, deep curve of the sea,
Where Flora's rich offerings the inland breeze
	Came wafting from o'er the lea;
Where the streamlet its sparkling waters gave,
	As a gift to the ocean there,
Humble the homes, but precious the hearts,
	That knelt at evening prayer.

They prayed for the loved ones so far away,
	Where many had found a grave,
Who oft had dared by night and by day,
	The foaming, treacherous wave;
The maid for her lover so brave, so true,
	The mother for all in her care—
Humble the homes, but precious the hearts,
	That knelt at evening prayer.

Homeward bound a frail, rude craft,
	Afar in the gathering night,
Mann'd by sturdy hearts, who fond wishes waft,
	To their homes beneath the beacon light;
And there on the lonely murmuring deep,
	With hope and faith so rare,
With clasped hands, and low bowed heads,
	They breathed their evening prayer.

So 'tis said in ancient times,
	By Israel's Galilee,
The Savior walked, the fishers cast
	Their nets into the sea.
"Come follow me, ye faithful hearts."
	He cried, and straightway, then,
This humble life knew they no more,
	They fishers were of men.
BEAVER, Oct. 23rd, 1874.			A. B. C


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Lemon and Orange Peel.—Dry thoroughly, pound
or grind in a handmill; sift, bottle, and cork. Ex-
cellent for flavoring.
	Wine Whey.—Boil a pint of milk; and put to it
a glass of white wine; set it over the fire till the
curd has settled, when strain it and sweeten to your
taste.
	Stains on the Hands.—If you have been pickling
or handling acid fruit and have stained your hands
wash them in clear water, wipe them lightly, and
while they are yet moist strike a match and shut
your hands around it so as to catch the smoke, and
the stains will disappear.
	Filling Cracks.—For filling cracks in wooden fur-
niture, try the following cement: Moisten a piece
of recently burnt lime with enough water to make
it fall into powder; mix one part of the slaked
lime with two parts of rye flour, and a sufficient
quantity of boiled linseed oil to form a thick plas-
tic mass.
	Baked Indian Pudding.—Scald one quart of
milk, pour it on five large spoonfuls of meal, add
one cup of molasses, and pour it into your pudding
dish, in which you have melted a piece of butter
the size of an egg. This makes a nice pudding;
free from whey. If the whey is preferred, add.
as soon as it begins to bake, a cupful of cold milk
	Simple Corn-meal Pudding.—Stir into a quart of
boiling milk the yolks of two eggs, three heaping
spoonfuls of meal and half a cup of sugar, well
beaten together. Cook five minutes; stirring con-
stantly; remove from the fire, and add the whites,
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a pudding dish,
and bake one hour in a moderate oven. Serve
with cream and sugar.
	To get clear of Rats.—If you want a rat remedy,
take copperas—the quantity to depend upon the 
number of buildings or places infested—pulverize
it very fine, and be sure and sprinkle some in all


their holes in the corn crib, under all the buildings,
in a word, wherever they may congregate, and in a
few days all the rats will be gone. This is very
simple and easily tried, and has proved completely
successful several times at different places. No
rat seen three days after a thorough application.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Frosted Feet Remedy.—It is recom-
mended to paint the feet a few nights with
tincture of iodine. Another remedy, said
to be sure, is:—Take mutton suet and resin,
equal parts; stew together and anoint the
feet before going to bed.
	TREATMENT OF CHILBLAINS.—The Can-
ada Medical Journal recommends sulphur-
ous acid in this affection. It should be ap-
plied with a camel-hair brush, or by means
of a spray producer. One application of
this usually effects a cure. The acid should
be used pure. A good wash for hands or
feet affected with chilblains, is sulphurous
acid, three parts; glycerine, one part; water,
one part. The acid will be found particu-
larly useful in the irritating, tormenting
state of chilblains.
	RESERVE POWER.—It is not wise to work
constantly up to the highest rate of which
we are capable. If the engineer on the
railroad were to keep the speed of his train
up to the highest rate he could attain with
his engine, it would soon be used up. If a
horse is driven at the top of his speed for
any length of time, he is ruined. It is well
enough to try the power occasionally of a
horse or an engine, by putting on all the
motion they will bear; but not continuously.
All machinists construct their machines so
that there shall be a reserve force. If the
power required is four-horse, then they
make a six-horse engine, take a boiler 
rated at eight or ten-horse, so as to fire up
slowly, work the boiler easily, and have
plenty of steam. All agree as to the econo-
my of keeping plenty of reserve steam.
	The "Herald of Health," applying this to
a man, says: "A man who has strength to
do twelve honest hours of labor in twenty-
four, and no more, should do but nine or ten
hours work. The reserve power keeps the
body in good repair. It rounds out the
frame to full proportions. It keeps the mind
cheerful, hopeful, happy. The person with
no reserve force is always incapable of ta-
king on any more responsibility than he al-
ready has. A little extra exertion puts
him out of breath. He cannot increase his
work for an hour without danger of an ex-
plosion. Such are generally pale, dyspeptic,
bloodless, nervous, irritable, despondent,
gloomy; we all pity them. The great source
of power in the individual is blood. It runs
the machinery of life and upon it depend
our health and strength.
	A mill on a stream where water is scanty
can be worked but a portion of the time.
So a man with a little good blood can do
but little work. The reserve power must
be stored up in this fluid. It is an old say-
ing among stock-raisers, that 'blood tells'.
It is equally true that blood tells in the 
sense in which we use the word. If it is
good blood, then the more of it the better.
When the reserve power of an individual
becomes low, it is an indication that a
change is necessary, and that it is best to
stop expending and go to accumulating,
just as the miller does when the water gets
low in the pond. Such a course would save
many a person from physical bankruptcy."
{Column 2]
	SORE THROAT—TIGHT COLLARS.—An
eminent physician, who devotes the whole
of his attention to diseases of the throat and
lungs, told us the other day that about three-
fourths of all throat diseases would get well
by wearing very loosecollars, and no necktie
at all. He said that often singers would 
come to him with throat disease, and loss of
voice, and he would tear open their cra-
vats and cure them with no other treatment
whatever. "The pressure of the collar on
the arteries of the neck is very bad for the
health," said he. He also added:—If you
have a disease of the throat, let nature do
the curing, and the physician just as little
as possible.
	CURE FOR CORNS.—The safest, and most
accessible, and the most efficient cure of a 
corn on the toe, says Hall's Journal of
Health, is to double a piece of thick, soft
buckskin, cut a hole in it large enough to
receive the corn, and bind it around the toe.
If in addition to this the foot is soaked in
warm water for five or more minutes every
night and morning, and a few drops of sweet
oil or other oily subsatnce, are patiently rub
in on the end after soaking, the corn will al-
most infallibly become loose enough in a
few days to be easily picked out with a fin-
ger nail. This saves the necessity of par-
ing the corn, which operation has some-
times been followed by painful and danger-
ous symptoms. If the corn becomes incon-
venient again, repeat the process at once.


﻿FLOWERS.
	AN investment in knowledge pays good
interest.
	HE is likely to be wise who can bear re- 
proof.
	KINDNESS is the noblest weapon to con-
quer with.
	A MAN who gives his children habits of
industry, provides for them better than by
giving them a fortune.
	IT is much better to work in earnest and
play in earnest than to mix work and play
carelessly together.
	BE deaf to the quarrelsome, blind to the
scorner and dumb to those who are mis-
chievously inquisitive.
	“NOR need we power or splendor—wide 
hall or lordly dome; the good, the true, the 
tender—these form the wealth of home.”	
	STRIVE to recommend religion by the 
courtesy, civility, and condescending char-
acter of your conduct.	’	
	NEVER get another to do for you what
you can just as well do for yourself. Money
thus paid out is thrown away.
	AN admirer of fine scenery has truly said
that the best time to read the book of Na-
ture is when autum turns the leaves.
	LET your expenses be such as to leave a
balance in your pocket.	Ready money is a
friend in-need. Therefore consult your 
purse before your fancy,
	NO sunny side? Nonsense! Everybody
has something to love—something to live 
for, hope for and labor for. Your gloomy
feelings are occasioned by one of two things:	
you exercise too much or too little; either
will make you disconsolate, so avoid both.
If the former error has been yours; stop and
rest, and replenish your wasting strength;
if your guilty of the latter failing, go to
work. In either instance you will become 
healthy and happy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PARENTAL DUTIES.

	On the whole, parental duties are perhaps
the most neglected of all those which bind
life together, and the simple neglect of
which tangles the threads of existence, and
makes the world the wilderness it is. *  *
The wisest and most stupid alike fail in this
respect; and yet it is a test of men—this
fatherhood. "By their fruits ye shall know
them." That foolish man and bad sovereign,
Charles I., whose character has at times
been falsely whitewashed with historical
lies, may be well judged from his two sons,
Charles II. and James II. Both were hypo-
crites, both tyrants and legal murderers, 
both licentious and adulterous, the first with
an easier tact, but the second with a pro-
found stupidity, the prey of Jesuits, the
tool of intriguers; the two forming a world's
wonder of wickedness and folly—fit fruits
of Charles I. Charles II. was nineteen years
old when his father perished, and, having
fought at Naseby, should have learned more
than he did from the hard school of neces-
sity. Yet, on the other hand, it would be
easy to find bad sons of good parents; there
is no lack of sons of Eli, who put to shame
the piety of their fathers, and the young
Ascanius does not always follow the foot-
steps of the pious Aeneas. As a rule—one,
we believe, with fewer exceptions than any
other—good fathers make good children.
When they fail, it is when they are inju-
diciously good. We can quite comprehend
the behavior of the daughters of Milton,
who, it is said, spent the household money
on dress, and went gadding about, leaving
the sublime blind old poet lonely and at
home. Such a thing may have taken place
once or twice. The lonely house of a blind
Republican, poet, and theologian, statesman
and polemic, must have offered few attrac-
tions to young women around whom the
changed world was seething and dancing in
a wild chorus of regained freedom and
loosened morality. So too, we believe
that clergymen's sons of most sects have no
particular attraction to theology; but on
the whole, they are well brought up and
good citizens. It would be a strange thing
indeed if training, which we find so efficient
with animals, were not so with men. The
universal cry for education would be mad-
ness, if as a rule, education were a failure.
But it is not so. We have only to look
round on the families of our friends, and to
note that, where the father and mother are
wise and kind, and know how to combine
wisdom with kindness—to know when wis-
dom means indulgence and when it means
severity—the children are well behaved,
lovable, and easy to govern, and that, on the
contrary, where the parents are not, and do
not know what we have stated, the children
are obstinate, mulish, and often hard-heart-
ed.
	A child is a wonderful gift. The first
question with many is to know what to do
with it. Everywhere—except in extra-luxu-
rious and wickedly-rich communities, as in
New York or Paris—children are welcome,
and a marriage is seldom happy without
them; but, welcome or not, they are a prime
necessity of nature; and the world exists
with its own fecund and ever-productive
power a great deal more for babies than it
does for rich princes, millionaire merchants,
or sceptical and worn-out philosophers.
		*	*	*	*	*
	Long before the father has a chance of
teaching boy or girl, the babe belongs to
the mother. And here we feel and know
at the outset that there is an immense want.
		*	*	*	All mothers, having
[Column 2]
studied some good home-work on their own
health and condition, should learn all about
"baby," and begin early with him or her,
the more the mother knows, and the more
active she is, the less trouble the child will
be. It begins to observe early. It will
quickly show its nature—which, if healthy,
is often a lively and rebellious one. It will
fully understand, at from three to nine
months old, anger, sorrow and endearment.
A frown at such an age, and a determined
look, will do more to educate the child than
a flogging at nine years. Watch a child,
and it will watch you; its every movement
is an education. We often hear of men im-
bibing deceit from their mother's milk.
We have very little doubt that babes learn
lying and falsehood when mere sucklings.
Robert Hall, the great preacher, once found
a lady who went out of the parlor with her
bady, put on her night-dress, and lay down,
to persuade the child to sleep. "Madame,"
he said in his sternest tones, "how very aw-
ful. You are teaching your little girl to be
a liar!" And he was right. A child 
who measures distance with its hands and
educates its feet to walk, is engaged in as
as subtle operations as the operation of dis-
cerning truth from obvious falsehood. What
it wants to get, and knows it can get by
pretended sorrow, it will. The shortest
way to deal with it is by gentle and kind
firmness, and instant correction. What the
mother wants is a good, kind, and wise
child; she will never get such by foolish
indulgence. Many a mother dies spent
and exhausted, worn out by mistaken kind-
ness, whilst afar off, a curse to himself and
those around him, a slave to petty indul-
gences and bad and selfish habits which
"mamma" taught him, hated and despised
by his companions, the spoilt son drivels
away his existence.
	Mothers should especially learn that
goodness and industry are, certainly with
children, happiness. Employ them early
in little matters. Children wish to be ac-
tive; cultivate and direct that activity. Be
neither too lavish nor too charry of praise;
show your pleasure by a look; be quick to
notice. Even if your income be two thou-
sand a year, make your daughter, as she
grows up, work as well as learn. Activity
of body means health, inactivity disease.
Moreover, we are not likely to sin by over
knowledge; parents will, or should be, care-
ful to elicit intelligence from their children.
Let them early, if possible, learn their own
position, and their duty towards others.
There is no better treatise for this than the
good old Catechism; it is very much wiser
and more advanced thatn Aristotle's Ethics
or any one else's ethics who has yet lived.
If only partly followed out, it will be sure
to make a good and tolerably happy man or
woman. We do not say wholly happy. It
will be as well for both father and mother
not to take too high a pitch about happi-
ness, this world is a world of trial, and is
very admirably—indeed, exquisitely—ar-
ranged for it. As the Greek epigram has it,
"God's mills move slowly, but he grinds
every one of us at last exceedingly small."
The beautiful illusion of youth must not be
spoilt, but youth itself need not believe that
a path of roses is the path of duty, and
that every hero is crowned and every
clever man makes a large fortune. The
brighter the hope, the darker the disap-
pointment. Men who wish their children
to be good and strong will take care to avoid
this.
	When the children come into the father's
hands—a charming time for a good man who
knows his duty, and who loves to direct
[Column 3]
clear and true young souls—his chief aim
should be to inculcate truth and industry.
He must not expect, much as a parent's
love may desire it, to find his children an-
gels. He may find some extraordinary
vices and faults even in well brought-up
and well-taught children. They are proba-
bly "herediaryisms"—on which some years
ago we wrote an essay. These will break
out. We now know a child aged nine who
has a mania for running away from home.
This child has been fondly treated and se-
verely and properly dealt with, but is not
yet cured. Lying is another habit, often at
the beginning merely exercise of a strong
imagination and wholly harmless. If not
noticed, nor allowed to excite wonder or ap-
plause or bursts of passionate anger, this
will die down. What such a child wants is
to excite attention. We must remember
that every child wishes naturally to play
the hero just as the man does. The great
secret is to teach him how to play it prop-
erly. Others have secretive and other vic-
sious habits, but these are the exception.
The greater number of boys and girls are
turned out fairly sound and honest, and fit
to carry on this work-a-day world. they
are creatures
			Not too bright and good	  "
		For human nature's daily food,
but they are nevertheless possible angels.
Let the father and mother be familiar and
true with their boys and girls, but by no
means foolishly intimate. Depend upon it
the commandment to "honor thy father and
thy mother" is an important one, and not
yet passed away, in spite of the French Rev-
olution; but to get this honor which child-
ren love to pay, the parents must deserve
it. If they are liars and hypocrites, the
children will be first to find them out. And
such parents must not blame the children.
The little people are only too ready to praise
their dog and brag of their doll; and do we
think that that small passion does not ex-
tend to their father and mother? A child's
ideal should be always one of its parents.
The present age is given to a foolish and lax
indulgence of children on the part of the
mothers and female relatives; and children's
parties, costume balls, and other degrading
and tiresome follies, as too often carried out,
abound. These are also often absurd shams,
wherewith the mothers and aunts exhibit
their own fondness, and the children are
bored to death. In New York the news-
papers report that the "shoddy" aristocrats
dress their little girls aged seven and nine
in jewelry worth thousands of dollars. A
true aristocracy, on the contrary, is noticea-
able for the plainess with which it dresses
its children and the order in which it keeps
them. There is, beside, too much fuss
made about our boys at the large schools;
and rich vulgarians trust their children with
too much money—but generally at public
schools the boys themselves correct this evil.
But evil it is. How can a father expect his
son to be simple and true when he has been
befooled and flattered by groom, tailor, and
tutor?
	When the great Seldon wrote in Greek
on the lintles of his doors, "Above all
things, Liberty," as his motto through life,
he might as well have written "Above all
things Truth," for truth is liberty, and the 
truth alone can make us free. Let the fa-
ther set an example of this to his children.
—Family Herald, England.


AN Indiana man sued a newspaper for
libel and dropped dead within a week. The
Detroit "Free Press" says these fellows will
learn something by and by.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	An ox that had been eating fermented
grain, which was in preparation for making
ale, became intoxicated, and was offered for
sale by his owner as "corned" beef.
	"WHAT do you ask for this article?" in-
quired Obadiah of young Miss Miller.
"Only twenty-five cents." "Ain't you a 
little dear?" "Why," she replied, blush-
ing, "all the young men tell me so."
	"WOULD that I could coal her mine!" ex-
claimed the hopeless suitors for the hand of
Lady Caroline Guest of England, who has
an annual income of $1,500,000 from her
coal mine in Wales,
	"HOW old is your mamma?" asked a love-
smitten old bachelor of the daughter of the 
widow who had enchanted him. "I don't
know, sir; ma's age varies from forty-three
to twenty-five," was the artless reply.
	THE vitality of some people is simply as-
tounding. There is a long-haired youth
who has written seven hundred verses, the
refrain to which is, "I am dying, mother,
dying," and withal he is'nt dead.
	SMITH and Jones were at the menagerie,
and the conversation turned on Darwin's
theory. "Look at the monkey," said Smith,
"think of its being an undeveloped human!"
"Human!" said Jones contemptuously, "it's 
no more human than I am."
	"IF you don't see what you want, ask for
it," is posted up in a conspicuous place in a
Logansport grocery. A native stepped into
the establishment last week. He saw the
card, and remarked, "I want a ten-dollar
bill, and I don't see it." "Neither do I,"
was the laconic reply.
	AN Indiana Judge stands no nonsense
from the bar. A lawyer, lately, in the
course of his argument, used the word "dis-
paragement." "Stop using Latin words,"
said the Judge, "or sit down." The poor
lawyer, undertaking to explain, was ruth-
lessly fined $20 for contempt.
	A SCOTCHMAN having hired himself to a
farmer, had a cheese set down before him
that he might help himself. The master
said to him, "Sandy, you take a long time
to breakfast." "In troth, maister," an-
swered he, "a cheese a' this size is nae sae
soon eaten as ye may think."
	TO be the husband of a petted prima donna
cannot be altogether agreeable. He is noth-
ing but an attachment to and faint reflection
of her. He is part of her suit, whose ex-
penses are paid by the manager, and he is
generally regarded as her maid is, or her
poodle, her canary or guitar, or any other
incumberance.
	THERE was once a clergyman in New
Hampshire, noted for his long sermons and
indolent habits. "How is it," said a man
to a neighbor, "That Parson —, the laziest
man living, writes those interminable ser-
mons?" "Why," said the other, "he proba-
bly gets to writing, and is too lazy to stop."
	MRS. Jipes, of Greasy Point, Ill., afte
sawing a cord of wood, digging five bushels
of potatoes, milking twenty cows, carrying
ten tubs of water, and doing a washing of
ten dozen pieces, incidentally mentioned
being tired. Mr. Jipes read to her from a 
newspaper: "I believe that nothing would
tend so effectually to get rid of these crea-
tions of weariness, and that overstimulation
of the emotions, as a fair share of healthy
work directed toward a definite object."
Just here a can of Royal Baking Powder
[Column 1]
struck him in the abdomen. Following this
came a stove lid, three pancakes, a rotten
tomato, salt cellar, bowl of buttermilk and
all the dough for Thursday's baking. It
was evident she considered her lord a "defi-
nite object," and the fair share of work di-
rected toward him was a little healthier than
he would have desired.


TREATMENT OF THE AGED.

	At a lecture in London, Mr. Habershon,
referring to the case of an old man, re-
marked:—"The man died simply from the
shock produced by coming out into the cold
and fog, which, though, only an inconveni-
ence to us, was sufficient to lead to a fatal
result on one whose circulation had become
enfeebled, and whose vital force had so
nearly lost its power. I am reminded, by
this case, of an instance of longevity com-
municated to me by a gentleman the other
day. His mother, who has died at the age
of one hundred and two, during the win-
ter months 'had refused to get up, saying
she was only warm in bed.' I have no
doubt that it was owing to this uniform,
warm temperament that she lived so long;
and I mention the instance as a recomenda-
tion for you, when you have to prescribe for
old people, to advise that they be kept
warm. You should also look carefully after
their nourishment. Old people cannot eat
large meals; therefore they must take them
more frequently. Many old people will
wake up about three or four o'clock in the
morning. It is a good plan that they have
some nourishment then; otherwise the in-
terval between the night and morning
meals is too long for declining strength. It
is by care in such minutiae that we may
prolong the life of the aged."


THE NEED OF REPOSE.—"Repose," says
a writer, "is the secret of power in persons,
pictures, statues, architecture, books and
nature, as if it were a means of retaining as
well as disclosing life, and health demands
a frequent pause to restore the balance of
the system and keep up perfect circulations.
The night if spent in healthy sleep, after
proper evening hours, reduces the world's
chaos and we are new every morning. Who
does not know the magic of a brief pause
in the midst of the worst confusion? A
calm of five minutes will invite back our
vagrant ideas and powers. So the home
should be like a hush and a lulaby in this
headlong, whirling, noisy, furious, and dis-
tracted world of the ninteenth century—
a nook apart from the thoroughfares—a grot
or bower under the sky, where the beauti-
ful spirits of the air will hover and dance.
Its atmosphere should be a little orienta
and cheering, as if exhaled from poppies
and balsams."


THE Peoria "Review" says that a lady
teacher in one of the public schools was
amazed the other day by seeing a perfect
forest of juvenile hands fly up in the air
and shake and gesticulate with violent agi-
tation. "What do you want?" querried the
puzzled instructor. Chorus.—"Yer hair's
falling off."


A YOUNG housekeeper being applied to
for a situation by a servant girl, she asked:
—"Why did you leave your last place?"
"Why, you see ma'am." replied the girl, "I
was too good-looking and when I opened
the door the gentlemen took me for the
missis."


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,
			GO TO
		MRS. C. E. DYE'S,
		19 East Temple Street.
She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES' & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
			Of the Latest Style.
Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.

		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
				AND 
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.

	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

		H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-

tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies

to purchase.

				CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4 -	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scribe, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.

Vol﻿. 3. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1874. 			No. 14.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE PRESENT term of Congress opened
at Washington on the 7th inst. President
Grant sent in an unusually lengthy message,
but so many subjects had to be presented
that "woman suffrage" or the "Mormon
question" were neither of them referred to.
	THE PROPOSITION to grant women the
right of suffrage, which was lately submit-
ted to the vote of the people in Michigan,
was lost. But its defenders are not in the
least awed in consequence of this failure; a
correspondent to the "Woman's Journal,"
heads an article upon the subject, "Defeated
but not Subdued."
	MRS MALLOY, connected with the press
at Elkhart, Indiana, says she loves her
present line of business so well that she
can work sixteen hours out of the twenty-
four at it, and her work does not seem bur-
densome. She considers that journalism is
especially woman's work, and that any wo-
man who naturally takes to it will succeed
where most men would utterly fail. Presi-
dent Young entertains much the same
opinions and has several times illustrated
them from the stand.
	A HOME for widows and single women
has lately been opened in Philadelphia by 
ladies of the Presbyterian church in that 
city. Woman may be regarded as a worth-
less inconvenience by some of the unappre-
ciative "sons of Adam"—and alas! it must
be acknowledged, sons of Eve too—but
since she has begun to comprehend how
much there is for her to do in the reform-
ing of the world, she has gone to work with
a will and a purpose, and is accomplishing
a vast amount of good.
	IT IS asserted that in ancient Egypt
women were honored and respected equally
with men; their opinions were considered
quite as worthy of notice; and their names,
on such occasions as weddings were as likely
to precede those of the gentlemen as other-
wise.  An extraordinary high degree of
culture is also said to have been fairly
claimed by the race.  These two statements
hang together well, and may be regarded as
another evidence in favor of equal rights
being extended to men and women.


﻿PRACTICAL WOMAN’S RIGHTS
	We have found a woman’s rights woman
in a practical sense, one who puts into prac-
tice the theories of the strong-minded, with
a strong purpose. We refer to Mrs. Bower
of Ottawa. Left a widow with two small
children on her hands, she at once concluded
to take care of them and herself. She en-
gaged in selling musical instruments and in
the short space of four years has established
a business of twenty thousand dollars a year.
She has never allowed a note to go to pro-
test or failed to pay promptly all her liabili-
ties. She employs four men with teams and
wagons which she owns, to sell instruments.
She has lately added sewing machines to
her stock. She buys in all cases for cash, and
sells nothing on commission. Her business
now affords a profit of $4,000 per year above
expenses. Here is a woman of whom nerve-


less, worthless, silly simpering women, may,
if they will, learn very valuable lessons in
self-reliance and self-support.—"Earlville
Transcript."


[Column 1]
		A CHRISTMAS DIALOGUE.

	Mrs. Goodey. Good morning Mrs. Prac-
tical.
	Mrs. Practical. Good morning Mrs.
Goodey, you have been shopping I see.
	Mrs. G. Yes, getting a few things for
Christmas; the children are all looking for
"Santa Clause" and I thought I would get a
few things to please them. You have been
on the same errand?
	Mrs. P. Yes, but there are so many
things needed that I have not spent my
money for toys, but made it the occasion to
present them with' new hats and dresses.
I thought it would make them just as hap-
py, and serve a better purpose than buying
useless things.
	Mrs. G. I am not quite sure that I coin-
cide with your view, Mrs. Practical. Dress-
es and hats are useful things, and very ap-
propriate Christmas presents, but I think a
little money spent in trifles, if we can af-
ford it is not altogether thrown away. It
affords the little ones a great deal of pleas-
ure, and their merry faces on Christmas
morning well repay us tor the pains we
have taken to make them happy.
	Mrs. P. Oh I always make a practice of
having something to please the children,
but times are hard and money scarce, and I
think things of some practical value will
make them just as happy, and serve a bet-
ter purpose.
	Mrs. G. That may be so, but little hands
will be busy, and little feet are turning in
search of something to employ them and
if they do not find it indoors they are apt to
turn out for it. I believe in making home
happy, it should be the brightest and most
cheerful place; if not our children are liable
to seek companionship among those who
have more indulgent parents.
	Mrs. P. I believe in indulging children
in everything that I consider for their best
good. I try hard to clothe and educate them
suitably, and fit them for a useful sphere in
life. I believe there is no one who thinks
more of her children or tries harder to
make them comfortable and happy, but I do
not think that toys and sweetmeats conduce
to their health or assist in making them
better men and women.
	Mrs. G. As far as health is concerned,
I do not think sweetmeats are of any of especial
benefit; but the young appetite craves such
things and under present circumstances it is
difficult to withhold them. I think it as
well for parents to furnish a moderate
amount as for children to take other means
of procuring them, but children are apt to
attach great importance to picture-books
and playthings brought to them at Christ-
mas time; and I think the care of such
things often teach them lessons that prove
beneficial to them in after life.
	Mrs. P. I try to teach my children hab-
its of industry, and as fast as they are old
enough to understand their import I take
pleasure in supplying them with good and
[Column 2]
useful books, and instructing them in such
things as will be for their future benefit.
	Mrs. G. I do not think that young minds
are satisfied with matters of practical impor-
tance. They are always searching for
amusement and if we do not give them
something of their own they are apt to soil
or destroy useful articles or things of more
value than those we would purchase for
them, or if not allowed amusement at
home they are liable to seek for it abroad.
	Mrs. P. I consider out-door exercise es-
sential to a good constitution, and the devel-
opment of a vigorous intellect; it makes
our boys more manly and our daughters
strong and healthy.
	Mrs. G. A certain portion of out-door ex-
ercise is useful, but when our children are
out from under our observation they are
liable to find unprincipled associates who
fill their minds with profitless information,
and lead them into mischief or danger. I
do not know of anything so deleterious to
growing intelligence as promiscous inter-
course with profane and unprincipled com-
panions, and I think the habits and associa-
tion of childhood are apt to have more or
less influence over them for good or for
evil in after life.
	Mrs. P. True! Mrs. Goodey, I feel to re-
alize the force of your argument. The as-
sociations found in the streets of our large
cities are certainly not of a high moral
character, children, whose plastic minds are
ever ready to receive impressions from
those in whose society they are thrown. It
grieves me to see the manners, and morals
at present existing among those who should
be patterns of propriety and shining lights
in the social circle.
	Mrs. G. I think many of us are too
careless in our own homes with regards to
the influence that is thrown around our
children. Mothers should ever cultivate a
love of beauty and refinement, and strive
to counteract the grosser influence of out-
door life. Parents shonld remember that
children look to them as the highest type of
excellence. I fear too many parents are in
the habit of using rough and even profane
language in their family intercourse; a prac-
tice which especially in mothers cannot be
too severely censured. A mother has the
first impressions to make in training the
young minds, and if those impressions are
low and rough, what lessons in after life can
eradicate them; unless, indeed, they are
to despise those whom nature calls them to
reverence and respect?
	Mrs. P. That is certainly a crying evil
among us, and when profanity and disre-
spect are permitted at home, we need not
be surprised that it spreads like an ulcer
and contaminates wherever it goes. I
think myself that children carry with them
through life more or less the influence of
their daily intercourse, and as they will
seek childish amusement it is better, per-
haps to spend a little time, and means in
pleasing their tastes than to permit them to
go where they are in danger of contamina-
ting their young minds. I shall reflect on
your suggestions, Mrs. Goodey, and perhaps
profit by them. Good day.
	PROVO. 				M. J. T.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT
			TO MAGGIE.

There's a charm in your music my spirit to cheer,
It dispels every doubt and brings heaven more near;
Then sing to me now in the twilights dim hour,
While night shades gather on hillside and flower.
Sing me a song that is joyous and bright,
Whose strains swell with gladness, with beauty and light,
For I have been weary and restless all day,
And longing for pleasures that fade not away.
Sing of the roses ere withered and dead.
Around they lie strewn on a cold silent bed:
Sing of sweet hope ere its beams passed away,
As mist from the mount, or as fadeth the day.
Sing of lifes ocean ere storms gathered deep,
Sing of bright eyes ere pain made them weep,
Sing of the loved ere in deaths slumbers bound,
Sing me one song where no anguish is found.
Oh! vain is the wish for if joy begun,
It would turn to pain ere the song was done,
So changing and fleeting this mortal breath
And so widely sown are the seeds of death.
Death to the fairest the purest and best,
To our fondest hopes, to our peace and rest;
Oh life what a fitful mocking dream,
What wrecks are strewn on thy turpid stream!
Then sing of that land of the ransomed and blest,
Where after life's journey the weary find rest;
Where life's weight of anguish and tears is laid down,
And earth's blood stained cross is exchanged for a crown.
									HOPE.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

MRS. L. G. RICHARDS:-
	Although the enclosed is a private com-
munication, I think its publication may be
of much suggestive benefit to the Young
Ladies' Associations generally. With this
view, I forward it to you, and trust that the
young ladies of Farmington will pardon
this liberty.	Yours,
					E.R. SNOW.
		FARMINGTON, Nov. 27th, 1874.
DEAR SISTER SNOW:—
	According to your instructions we have
formed a set of resolutions, of which we
send you a copy. The Bp. has read them,
and thinks they are just what we need. We
have also presented them to the Associa-
tion and they are determined to try to keep
them. We are now having meetings once
a week, and always have very good ones.
The sisters respond promptly when called
upon to speak or perform any other duty, and
we realize that the meetings are doing a
vast amount of good.
	Our association numbers one hundred at
present, and increases in number every
meeting.
	Hoping to hear from you when you can
make it convenient, and praying God to
bless you in all your endeavors, the young
ladies all join in sending love.
	Yours Truly,
			Pres. LUCY A. CLARK.
		Sec. MINERVA E. RICHARDS.
	P. S. The young men have also been or-
ganized, are holding meetings once a week
and forming Resolutions.
					M. E. R. Sec.
			RESOLUTIONS.

				November 8th, 1874.
	We, the officers and members of the
Young Ladies' Association of Farmington,
realizing that we have been negligent with
regard to some of our duties, have decided
that we have need to form resolutions among
ourselves, which will have a tendency to
create a reformation in the habits of the
young.
	1st.—Resolved, that we will consider one
of our foremost duties to attend Sabbath
meetings, fast meetings, and all meetings,
[Column 2]
where we can gain wisdom and knowledge,
that will prepare us to become useful mem-
bers in the kingdom of God.
 	2nd.—Resolved, that whereas profaning
the name of God is a low and degrading
vice, and also breaking a commandment of
God, we will use our influence to reduce
this disgraceful practice, by not associating
with those who indulge in it.
	3rd.—Resolved, that inasmuch as strong
drink destroys man's physical and intellec-
tual powers, we, as a band of sisters—be-
cause of the respect which we have for
those who are taking this downward course
—cannot conscientiously in the sight of God,
and will not approve of this sin, by associa-
ting with those, who, if they continue in
this course, will bring poverty, shame and
disgrace upon themselves.
	4th.—Resolved, that whereas the use of 
tobacco is a filthy and destructive habit, of-
fensive in the sight of God and all good
men, and creates an appetite, which if not
checked, will lead to ruin, we will not sanc-
tion its use, but exert our influence to pre
vent the young men from tampering with
the life which God has given them, by using
this "obnoxious weed."
	5th.—Resolved that we will not indulge
in "round dancing," and as soon as possible
abandon a desire for the same, as we have
been repeatedly warned against it, as having
originated from an evil source.
	6th.—Resolved, that inasmuch as we
have been, in a great degree, careless with
regard to our conduct in general, such as
"loud laughter," "night walking," "keep-
ing late hours," "actions in meetings and
ball rooms," "speaking lightly of each other
and of sacred things," etc. etc. We will be
more reserved in our actions and conversa-
tion in the future.

	Minutes of a Meeting held by the Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association of the
11th Ward, at the residence of Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze, Nov. 9th, 1874.
	Meeting opened by singing "O my Fath-
er." Prayer by President Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
Singing "Ye ransomed of our God." Min-
utes of the preceeding meeting were read
and accepted. Counselor Miss Lelia Tuckett
read the first Chapter of the first Epistle of
James. Select reading by Pres. M. A.
Freeze and Miss Lizzie Mineer. Coun. Le-
lia Tucket arose and said: "I do not feel
prepared to speak, but we can glean some
excellent ideas from the pieces read. It is
not what we hear or what we read that will
benefit us, but it is what we remember. It
requires a constant watchfulness to keep a
train of good thoughts running through our
minds, they are so apt to be led away with
foolish, trivial things. But with exertion
on our part and assistance from our Heavenly
Father, we can control our thoughts. I feel
well in Retrenchment; there is not a better
institution for drawing out our minds and
causing us to learn the principles of our re-
ligion. I am glad to see so many young
here. The Gentiles are rejoicing in the
thought that the young in Zion will not em-
brace the Gospel, but I know there is a ma-
jority waking up, who desire to learn the
principles of the Gospel, and Retrenchment
was established in time to supply a chance
to satisfy their desire for knowledge. I
have received a testimony of the truth of
this work; it is the privilege of all persons
to know when they are approved of God.
We need a spirit of humility, we must
learn to submit to higher authority and in-
telligence than we possess ourselves. Let
[Column 3]
us not refrain from doing good to others, and
think less of self, and we will merit and re-
ceive the blessings of our Father in Heav-
en."
	President Mrs. Mary A. Freeze then said,
"I have proved many times that the Spirit
of God promotes union; it inspires all who
possess it with the same thoughts and de-
sires. It does my soul good to see the little
ones come to meeting. We have been told
to get the young together, and teach them
good principles and they will never depart
from them. The little ones are eager to
learn, but parents neglect to teach them.
It is very natural for us to feel that we are
all sufficient, but we must learn humility
and strive to know our imperfections; and
when we see our own weakness we will
draw nearer unto God, and he will strength-
en us. I have heard Pres. Young say that
he was always willing to learn from the
youngest child, and that we had got to be-
come as little children, full of humility and
meekness. We must learn not to find fault
with each other. The poet says. "When I
saw my brother's failings, I was not exactly
right." We cannot judge the motives and
feelings of each other; if we knew them we
would be more charitable. I feel like carry-
ing out every law of the gospel for nothing
short of the best glory will suit my desires.
Let us have a watch care over our young
ladies, that they be not lead into bad com-
pany, for they cannot mingle with it and be
untarnished. Let us use good language and
teach our children to use it, for the "Angels
are around us their silent note taking." If
we have perceived a fault in our lives to-day
let us endeavor to master it to-morrow so
that we may improve continually and at last
be saved in the kingdom of God."
	Miss Lizzie Mineer said, "I am happy to
meet with you. I wish we could always
keep the same spirit with us that we feel in
meeting. I want to live nearer to the Lord
day by day, and I know I can do so by at-
tending to prayer. I would like to hear my
sisters speak. The smallest can bear testi-
mony of the goodness of God."
	Mrs. Rebecca Mead said, "I enjoyed your
meeting so much last week that I could not
refrain from coming to-day. The Lord
deigns to give us special blessings here; I am
proud of the children of the saints, there
are none to surpass them in the world. To
me, you young ladies look beautiful with
your plain dresses and natural faces, free
from paint and powder. The Gentiles can-
not help admiring you, in your native
beauty. Do not pattern after the fashions
of the world, but take good counsel, live
pure lives and God will bless you.
	Misses Mary McMaster, Hannah McMas-
ter, Etta Young, Minnie Young, Maggie
Mead and Mirriam Greer were accepted as
members of the Association. Miss Maggie
Mead was appointed to write an essay.
“Humility” continued as a subject for next
meeting. Moved an adjournment for one
week; singing, "Hark the song of Jubilee."
Benediction by Sister Mead.
	MISS LELIA TUCKET, Secretary.


THE gallant coursers of Nantucket are
not remarkable for bottom or speed. One
found his way into the Massachusetts cav-
alry during the rebellion, being recommend-
ed as an excellent war horse. When the
soldier returned he went into a towering
passion, because he had been swindled. "As
how?" asked the islander. "Why, you
warranted him a good war-horse, and there
is not a bit of go in him." "Yes, I did;
and I repeat he is a good war-horse, he'd
sooner die than run."


﻿WOMAN’S  EXP0NENT.


[Column 1]
				For the EXPONENT.
CULTURE NECESSARY TO IMPROVE-
				MENT.

	Nature has been lavish in her gifts to
man, but labor has been and is a condition
of their enjoyment, improvement and per-
petuity. Certain races of men seem to
have noticed these facts and to have taken
advantage of them; had they not done so
there would have been little development;
they recognized the force of the truism "in
the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,"
which is written in the book of Nature as well
as in the Bible. Labor—culture, exercised by
man in the earliest ages benefits us to-
day.
	There is no natural wheat worth having.
Nature supplies the seeds from which it
can and without which it cannot be made.
Man cannot make an atom of matter neither
can he destroy; but he can make a thing that
is worth nothing worth something, this is
creation. He can change the direction of
the natural forces and use them for his own
advantage. The wheat we prize so greatly
is the result of labor expanded for many
successive generations, care in selecting,
improving, nourishing, the "flesh-forming"
and "heat-giving" properties, the vitalizing
forces of our wheat, represent the energies
of thousands of our race who wrought for
our convenience, and made our existence
possible in such multitudes. The same may
be said of our peaches, pears, cherries; of
the plump, pulpy delicious edible fruits,
they have been handed down as part of our
inheritance from man; the wild fruits are of
small value. The double flowers and floral
beauties of our gardens that we so highly
prize are man's work. Nature does her
work adequately, elegantly, but frugally,
the wild flowers of the prairies, the butter-
cup, daisies of the meadows and the lilly of
the vallies are evidences. Nearly all the
temporal blessings we enjoy are the out-
flow of accumulations, that have resulted
from culture in the distant past, we are in-
debted for them to man.
	That the same general principles of im-
provement, and thus of adding to value by
culture are understood we have evidence of
in the care which is taken in raising stock
as well as in agricultural and kindred opera-
tions. But there does not appear to be as
much care in raising men, nor as clear a
conception of the importance of culture to
our race; the greatest care is taken in breed-
ing, and, by attention to natural laws ani-
mals are raised with certainty of the most
desirable kinds. Nature, in her gifts, has
not shut out man from similar advantages
of descent and culture, wherein to be suc-
cessful must be natural, that is in harmony
with the laws of our being. We may be
thankful that by a happy train of circum-
stances a more perfect race of men is being
developed in these mountains, simply be-
cause there is more perfect obedience to the
natural laws.
	The gathering together of a people that
will improve by living in harmony with the
laws of our being is a requirement of the
age; the strongest races live the longest,
man is dwindling in stature and shortening
his life because he loses strength by living
in violation of the fundamental laws upon
the observance of which existence is secured
to him.
	What is wanting to secure to man the
highest attainable excellence, the maximum
of vitality and intelligence, is culture, not
of a part but of the whole being. What
this being man is capable of we may learn
from the Key to Theology: "An intelli-
[Column 2]
gent being, in the image of God, possesses
every organ, attribute, sense, sympathy, af-
fection, will, wisdom, love, power and gift,
which is possessed by God himself. But
these are possessed by man, in his rudi-
mental state, in a subordinate sense of the
word. Or in other words, these attributes
are in embryo, and are to be gradually de-
veloped. They resemble a bud—a germ,
which gradually develops into bloom, and
then, by progress, produces the mature
fruit, after its own kind." So that, as the
wheat has attained to its present excellence
by culture man can attain to a fulness of
perfection.
	It is well for us that we are in the school
where we realize that culture is necessary
to our improvement—self-culture especially.
It teaches us to know ourselves and thus to
know others. We do not look with ill-feel-
ing or contempt upon those who have not
attained to this knowledge. Our pride does
not make us repulsive, nor vanity cause us
to be survile to others. It enables us to
stand erect under the chilling blasts of ad-
versity, and beneath the sunshine of pros-
perity. If we are angry we sin not; or if
we incautiously infringe upon anothers
rights we ask forgiveness. And we obtain
it too, from those who have made them-
selves the subject of this culture.
	If this does not raise us in the estimation
of those outside the moral discipline indi-
cated it improves us, and with ages that
succeed us it will improve the race. We
shall thus leave the world better than we
found it, the rich legacy inherited by us
from man made richer by our labors will be
bequeathed to and held in prosperity by
man.


OUR SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.

	NON-INFLAMMABLE FABRICS.—Cotton or
linen goods may be rendered non-inflamma-
ble by being dipped in a solution of equal
parts of acetate of lime and chloride of cal-
cium dissolved in twice their weight of wa-
ter.
	ACTION OF PLASTER ON SOILS.—Though
generally employed by farmers as a fertili-
zer, the action of plaster (gypsum) on the
soil is not well understood. It has been
shown, however, by actual experiment, that
plaster is capable of absorbing ammonia
from the air, and also from decomposing an-
imal and vegetable matter, holding it in the
form of sulphide of ammonium. This,
again, may be changed into carbonate of
ammonia, by absorption of carbonic acid
from the air. These changes occur when
gypsum is brought in contact with moisture
and vegetable matter. Whatever other
purpose it may serve, this must be regarded
as the most important, as by it plants are
supplied with food of the highest value.
	Not only is gypsum, or sulphate of lime,
a substance so abundant in our mountains,
useful in these respects, but is valuable as a
deoderizer; decaying organic matter be-
comes fixed by union chemically with the
sulphuric aid of the gypsum. In this way
the volatile and pernicious, in some cases
poisonous gases are made subservient to the
interests of agriculture. Besides this gyp-
sum has its uses for "plaster of Paris"
and calcineing.


An omnibus driver called down to an un-
conscious young lady, "Miss, your fare!"
"Well" exclaimed the girl, rousing up, "If 
I am, I don't want any of your imperti-
nence!"


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Chandler, of London, has established
a convalescent hospital which is said to be
doing a vast amount of good.
	AN English lady by the name of Octavia
Hill, has taken upon herself the burden of
improving some of the dwellings of the
poor.
	MRS. Harriet Moulton, of Unity, 80 years
old, set her clothing on fire while smoking
in bed, a few nights ago, and was fatally
burned.	A FEW days since, two young ladies died
in Fairhaven, Massachusetts, who were en-
gaged to be married to two young men who
were eousins. Their wedding dresses w ere
their shrouds.
	MADAM Patti-Caux lately sung on a Par-
isian stage for the benefit of the Alsace-
Lorrainers and evolved seven thousand dol-
lars for the performance.
	MRS. Scott-Siddons, lately home from
Europe, is going to visit China, Japan, and
places still more distant; being absent from
America for about two years.
	AN English paper announces that "sev-
eral of the loveliest ladies in the realm as-
sembled at Wimbledon last week, to see
the shooting of their husbands."
	MISS Helen Patterson, an artist who has
done good work for the "Graphic" and the
Cornhill Magazine, is said to be about to
marry the poet Allingham, who has become
the successor of Froude, in editing Frazer's
Magazine.
	A MISSISSIPPI girl just out of school
hired a few negroes last season and under-
took to carry on a farm at her homestead.
The result at the end of the year was eight
banks of potatoes, 600 bushels of corn and
$960 in cash from the sale of cotton after all
expenses were paid.
	MRS. Julia Ward Howe lectures on the
question "Is Polite Society Polite? and an-
swers it, the papers say, in a satisfactory
manner to an intelligent audience of Bosto-
nians. But we have not learned whether
she proves the answer to be yes or no.


COURTING.—"Courting is about half sci-
ence," says Josh Billings. "The nature in
it is simple energy, You must begin slow,
and bye and bye it will be best to agitate
things. Wimmen never surrender, nor are
they ever exactly won, but rather captured.
They 'fight it out on this line.' There are
wimmen who are as easy to court as lint.
'Luv at first sight' is like eating honey. It
duz seem as though you could never get
enuff of it. This kind of luv is apt to make
blunders, and is hard to back out of as well,
but there ain't any such thing az pure ma-
thematicks in courting. If it is all nature,
it is too innocent for earth, and if it is all
science, it is too much of a job. Perhaps
the best way to court is to begin without
much of any plan where you are going to
fetch up, and let the thing kind of worry
along kareless, like throwing stones into a
mill-pond. You will find one thing strictly
true—the more advice you undertake to
follow, the less amount of good courting you
will do.


I AM in favour ov the utmost possible lib-
erty, both for the soul & boddy, but i never
expekt to see human natur, well broke
enuff to drive without enny bits!—Billings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1874.


SPLINTERS.

			LOCAL.

	The middle of December and no snow to
lay on the ground a day yet this season.
Rather remarkable......A German singing
club was recently organized in this city......
The Hawaiian King, Kalakana, passed
through Ogden on his way to Washington
on the 7th inst. He is expected to return
this way with his suite, and will likely pay
Salt Lake a visit in a few weeks......Hep-
worth Dixon, the author of "New Ameri-
ca," a book in which he gives the "Mor-
mons" a fair showing, recently visited our
city for the second time......A child was re-
cently kidnapped and a horse and buggy
stolen by a man and woman in this city.
			PERSONAL
William Delaney, one of the "noble six
hundred" who rode at Balaklava, lives now
at Portland, Maine......Bazaine is to occupy
the appartments in London once dwelt in
by Napoleon Third, when he was called
Prince Louis......Fanny Morgen Phelps is
manager of the Oro Fino Theatre in Port-
land, Oregon, and she was lately won great
applause......Miss Mattie Stephenson is the
second lady compositor who has made her
"debut" in Albany, New York......Thomas
Gerrand, a boy murderer in Oregon, is sen-
tenced to be hanged on the 15th of January
......Miss Johns, a young lady of Salem,
Oregon, was recently badly burned by the
explosion of a fluid lamp......Matilda Jos-
lyn Gage says that in the matter of books,
man's work is a sham......Annie Norton, of
Earlville, Ill., has proved a very successful
and skillful doctor......Mrs. Ezra Stephens
of Crete, Nebraska, preached the funeral
sermon of a departed lady recently.
			POLITICAL.
Governor Komper, of Richmond, Va. says,
in his message to the State Legislature, that
"the recent events create hopes that the
government of the United States is to be
brought back to the Constitution"......The
strife in Cuba is still unsettled......The
Whites and the Negroes are having serious
fights in Vicksburg, Ill.; seventy Negroes
were recently killed in one day......In Wal-
la Walla county, Oregon, seventeen candi-
dates were up for representative at the late
election......It is reported that a Republican
Congressman elect, of Kentucky, shot and
killed his Democratic competitor in the
election.


ENCOURAGING.

		FROM AN AGENT.

			BEAVER, Dec. 5th, 1874.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:
	I have just returned from Minersville,
where I went to visit, and also to canvas
for the EXPONENT. The sisters of the Re-
lief Society all seem in good faith, and anx-
ious to have the paper, but only a few were
able to subscribe more than one dollar. I
advised them if they could do no better to
send for half the year; they seemed pleased
with that suggestion, and accordingly, I re-
ceived five names, with one dollar each.
When that has expired I will see to the re-
newals. Sister Tyler is sick with inflamma-
tory rheumatism and was not able to accom-
pany me; when she recovers we shall en-
deavor to visit the other settlements, and
obtain what we can.  So you will please to
send to those five subscribers for six months.
I shall get more names from that place in
time.  I told the sisters I wished them to
bear in mind that the EXPONENT was a pa-


per edited and sustained by women, and for
that very reason we could not afford to let
it fail; they seemed fully to coincide with
my sentiments; besides they admire the
character of the matter contained in the
paper.
			Very restpectfully yours,
						L. B. Pratt.


[Column 1]
		THE CLOSING YEAR.

	A few more days, and eighteen hundred and
seventy-four will be counted with the hoary
past, and for a little season we shall date our
writings '75. Then, just ahead, in native and
in manufactured glory, will stand our nation's
grand Centennial. But we need not seek to
hasten the time, or to throw aside an hour un-
spent. There is enough to do to prepare for the
countless changes as they follow each other in
rapid succession.
	As this issue of the EXPONENT will be the
last until the old year's title will be exchanged
for the new, it seems timely for us to make
here, a slight retrospection of some of the
events, which have to a great extent, occupied
personal as well as public attention during the
twelve months past.
	Like its late predecessors, the year which
now draws to a close, has been rife with ca-
lamitous incidents. Of "wars and commo-
tions," of "blood and fire," of "earthquakes
famines and pestiliences" there has certainly
been no lack of accounts placed in the world's
great record. But of all the afflictions where
with America's children have been afflicted,
perhaps the sudden stroke of the unforseen
and uncontrovertible hand of DEATH has been
the greatest cause of almost general "lamenta-
tion, weeping and great mourning." Not a
neighborhood, we venture to assert, but has
felt the gloomy presence of that peace destroy-
ing messenger, who marks for his selections oft
the fairest flowers, the most choice fruits, and
best and finest grain; scarcely a home but has
been either directly or indirectly smitten.
	Within the immediate circles of our dear
personal friends and intimate acquaintances,
we recall to mind the sad face and sorrowing
tones of more than one newly made widow,
and of too many bereaved and anguished moth-
ers. If ever true heroism was displayed by
woman, we have been witness to it in some of
these instances, within the last six months.
	We fully understand that there is no terror
in death to the pure and good; nor is it when
such depart, that their remaining friends de-
plore the fate of the dearly cherished ones who
pass away from mortal toll and care. But the
realizing sense of the separation which must
continue for an unknown length of time be-
tween a human heart and its best earthly idol,
to which death has laid claim, be it parent,
[Column 2]
﻿brother or sister, companion or child, can only
be comprehended by those who have passed
through the trying ordeal. What proof of di-
vine trust in an alwise and all merciful God,
can surpass that which shines forth in the calm
resignation and unswerving fortitude with
which some of our noble heroines of the pre-
sent period bear these great griefs? But there
is also a consolation to such sufferers, sacred
and sweet, which no other sorrow can know.
There is a beautiful golden side to even this
dark picture. If while her heart's treasures,
her best gifts from God remain with her in the
flesh, liable like her to fall into the snares of
the tempter and to lose at last the great reward
of faithfulness, woman has something to live
and labor for—how much more, when her
cherished idol has been freed from mortality
with all its burdens, in order that she may be
worthy to claim her own when her mission
shall have been also accomplished!
	The defeat of the Republicans and the tri-
umphant uprising of the Democracy through-
out the United States will stand as THE event
by which 1874 will be made memorable in
American history.
	That the negroes are arming themselves and
opening war with the whites is an occurrence
which has been long looked for, a prediction the
fulfillment of which this year see the begin-
ning.
	In the midst of the Latter-day Saints, a New
Order of things has been partially established
during the present year; although the per-
ceptible change may be slight, yet it may be
said that the laying of one foundation stone at
least has been accomplished.
	In bidding goodbye to "the wise old year,"
we would take occasion to thank our friends for
their kind patronage, and say to them, "be not
weary in well doing," nor discouraged because 
of dull times or dark prospects—we don’t mean
to be. And as Christmas will be spent before
we greet our friends again, we wish them all
a merry one.


BUILDING TEMPLES.

	If I could say anything to my sisters to ex-
hort them to live nearer the Lord than we have
been doing, I would gladly do so. For I feelt
that the time is far spent, that great events
are taking place, and that greater ones will come
to pass ere many are aware or prepared for
them. I recently attended a meeting at which
President B. Young Jun. spoke in accordance
with the times; and in my heart I rejoiced to
hear the words of truth spoken by the lips of
an Apostle of God. And I thank my Heavenly
Father for the light of the Gospel which I
have received.
	Oh! my sisters, we have need to become
more and more united in our efforts to assist
the elders in building up the Kingdom of God.
	What do we suppose the words which have
been spoken by the mouths of holy prophets,
concerning the establishment of God's King-
dom upon the earth, can mean, but that His
saints must establish it in His name, by His
authority and through His aid and blessings?
	The scriptures tell us that "the Lord will
come suddenly to his temple." Can we imag-
ine that he will come before the Temple is pre-
pared for him? Or can any of us have hopes
of being invited to enter into the Temple, and
hear the words of life uttered by the Savior and
Redeemer of the world, beholding His face and
witnessing the glory of His presence, if we
are not assisting to make it ready for the recep-
tion? We understand that the religion we
have embraced is a practical religion, that we
must WORK as well as watch and pray. If any


among us cannot, possibly, raise the amount of
fifty cents per month in cash, to be given for
the building of Temples, it is possible for most
of us to do something else, which, in many in-
stances will be quite as well. The men who
labor on the Temples must be clothed and fed.
Many of us in country places who, in these
"hard times," rarely have the spending of a
dollar in money, might save a few pounds of
butter, a few dozen eggs, knit a pair of good,
warm socks or pay in some other similar man-
ner our personal oblations. In some cases, a
sister might have a little stocking yarn that
she would use for that purpose, if she could get
time aside from the incessant care of her young,
helpless family. While her neighbor, perhaps,
would take the time to knit the socks if she
only had or could get the yarn. Let us be
neighborly, sisterly, meet and speak often one
to another, learn of each others conditions, and
under circumstances such as I have mentioned,
let one donate the material, the other the labor.
Here, again, we should find co-operation agree-
able and beneficial.
	But if, for the money to be paid in as a Tem-
ple offering would really be preferable, I think
in most instances, that by a little planning and
pains taking, we might manage to obtain the
money for such articles as I have named.
	It is necessary that we bestir ourselves if we
wish to be employed in the service of the Lord.
He does not and cannot patronize idle servants,
any more than business men and women can.
His work MUST be done, and he will employ
those who WILL do it. Not those who pray
for the Kingdom to be built up, but who be-
lieve it impossible for them to practically pro-
mote its interests, when the Lord in great wis-
dom and mercy, has given unto them powers
of mind and body whereby they might not
only assist His cause but win for themselves
crowns of immortal glory. It seems to me
that it should be in the power of every woman
in the Territory who feels a deep interest in the
work of Zion, and who is able to knit or spin
or wash dishes, or do any other kind of work,
to do something towards the building of Tem-
ples, and thus earn a right to the blessings
and privileges therein to be obtained.
	And furthermore, if our desires to do great
good are very intense, we have only to pray to
the Lord in earnestness and faith, for wisdom
and ability to accomplish the good we seek to
bring about; and then set to work, first with
our heads to devise the proper way--since our
hearts are already enlisted--and then with our
hands to do whatever must be done.
	By these simple means every woman in the
community who is possessed of any stability
whatever, might, without troubling her hus-
band about it, also subscribe for WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and find time to read it too. And also
pay for the "Juvenile Instructor" for her chil-
dren until they were able to earn the subscrip-
tion money for themselves.		M. G. H.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿NOTICE.
	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January,
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed
instead of at the place of delivery; and send,
or make arrangements with their postmasters
to have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the princinct of
this county.
	WHAT is the key to a Christmas box?
A tur-key.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	THE STREET crossings are being improved at
several differnt corners where improvements
were much needed, by the laying of plank
crossings. Thanks to our City Fathers.
	GRASS CREEK Coal, from the Old Church
mine, we find upon testing to be of superior
quality. This mine is now worked by Bishops
Cluff of Coalville, Richins of Heneferville and
Winters of Unionville. We received a sample
from Mr. Angus M. Cannon who is agent for it
in this city.
	NEWS FROM St. George are to the effect, that
President Young's health is much better than
when he left his home in this city, and still
improving. A rain storm of three day's dura-
tion was lately experienced there, which is
something quite unusual for that country.
	THEOLOGICAL CLASSES are being organized
in connection with the Sabbath Schools of the
different Wards in this city. They are for the
instructing of the teachers and larger scholars
in the principles of the Gospel, in a manner
that will enable them to impart the knowledge
they gain readily to others; and are calculated
to be of great benefit.
	DURING CHRISTMAS week a fair will be open
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, un-
der the management of the Relief Society of
the Ward. A great variety of articles, useful
and beautiful, will be on exhibition and for
sale. Tickets will be issued at low prices, and
a general invitation to visit and patronize is
extended to the public.
	MAJOR OVERTON recently burned the entire
personal property of his daughter Alice; includ-
ing her trunk, wardrobe, presents and keep-
sakes from dear friends, because of her leaving
home on account of the harsh and cruel treat-
ment she was there subjected to by her parents.
One of the meanest things that ever took
place in Utah. 
	FATHER PHINEAS Richards, aged eighty-six
years, died in this city on the evening of the
25th ult. He was the father of Apostle F. D.
Richards a cousin of President Brigham Young,
and one of the early settlers of these valleys.
Until the close of his mortal career,he remained
firm in the faith of the Gospel of Jesus Christ,
which he embraced more than thirty years ago.
He leaves behind a large circle of friends and
relatives, including many children, grand chil-
dren and great grand children.
	THE NEWS of the sudden demise of Mrs. Alice
Young Clawson, which occurred on Wednes-
day, the 2nd. Inst., at St. George, Washington,
Co. brought unspeakable grief to many near con-
nections and relatives who had known and
loved her best, and feelings of deep sympathy
to a large circle of friends. The daughter of
President B. Young and wife of Mr. H. B.
Clawson, she was well known in the commu-
nity, and as a worthy lady was highly respec-
ted. Among the kindred hearts which remain
to mourn her loss, is that of her aged mother,
Mrs. Mary A. Young. She left also four youth-
ful sons, by whom the great bereavement will
be most keenly felt. She died in the thirty-
seventh year of her age.


THE Baroness Burdett-Coutts recently
distributed about fifty money prizes, her
own gifts all, to London canters wagoners
and donkey-drivers, who, at an afternoon
exhibition, satisfied their examiners that
their animals had been well cared for and
humanely treated.


SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 23rd, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT: —
	The following incident came under my
observation, and is, I think, worthy of note.
I place it at your disposal.  As my sister,
Mrs. Melissa Kimball, was returning from
this city to her home in Parley’s Park, she
was thrown in company with a lady, appar-
ently of very respectable family, also very
quiet, intelligent and affable. She inquired,
on finding that Mrs. K. lived in the Park,
if she knew of a man named Pickard in
that vicinity. My sister replied that she
had known him for some time, and he was
in a most pitiable condition.  Between
drink and Spiritualism, he was at times quite
deranged. The lady said he was an old
friend of hers, of very respectable parents,
had a wife and son who were very anxious
about him; that his brothers had written
him repeatedly but at last concluded he was
dead, as they could get no word from him.
The lady, who had traced him to this coun-
try, then confessed that she was his wife
and had come to try and save him. She
had sold the comfortable home which she
had provided herself with and brought her
son, a six month old babe at the time her
husband came West, now a lad fourteen
years old.
	She found the man without much difficul-
ty in a saloon in Park City. He was asked
if he knew the lady and said no he had
never seen her. She then spoke her own
name, which seemed to awaken him as if
from a dream; and he exclaimed, "My God!
It is my wife—and she has come to [-]ve
me!”
	What a sight he had become, so low, so
degraded and filthy, he was loathsome!
	She, after much urging, prevailed on him
to accompany her to this city where she had
left their son. He stated that shortly after
he came to this country some one told him
his wife was not true to him and that had
driven him to drink and all that his broth-
ers could write him did not convince him
that this was false. His wife not wishing
the son to see him in this state, gave him
money to get him a suit of clothes, which
he took and went—to a saloon for drink.
She succeeded at last, however, in getting
him to leave the saloon and get him some
clothing. She then presented his son to
him. The scene was a most touching one.
One moment he would look at his wife and
son, the next upbraid himself as unfit to
live. He at last consented to accompany
them away from here to some place where
his depravity was not known and commence
life anew. Who can say there is no stability
in Woman? Where can you find the man
that would cling to his wife through “Good
and Evil report,” would cherish her mem-
ory through fourteen long years, hunt her
up, lift her from the lowest state of degra-
dation and try to save her? The rule is if
Woman sins put her down and trample on
her! But may we live to see this the ex-
ception, not the rule. 	 Yours Truly,
						R. M. JONES.


WHAT man must have his glass before he
can do a day's work?—A glazier.
	IF a colt's pistol has six barrels, how many
barrels ought a horse pistol to have?
	WHEN a lady stands at the hymeneal altar
with her intended, you may know she is
about to draw her beau into a knot.
	"Gracious me!" exclaimed a lady in a
witness box, "how should I know anything
about anything I don't know anything
about?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


"IS IT A CRIME FOR WOMAN
			TO LOVE?"
TO QUEERY.—EXPONENT, Nov. 15th, '74.

	For woman to love is no crime,
		(Though she love neither wisely nor well;)
	For love is a passion divine
		And may yet cleanse the black depths of hell.

	Love, even unsought, is no sin,
		Though direst imprudence, I own,
	For man is perverseness within,
		And values not things lightly won.

	Like a beast of the desert is man—
		If you fly he will swiftly pursue;
	But approach him, with heart in your hand.
		Distrustful, he flies before you,

	Your pearls, if you offer for naught,
		He thinks never came from the deep,
	For were they not shams subtly wrought,
		She surely had held them less cheap!

	"To blame?" yes, to blame! if she throw
		The pledge of her all thus away,
	Unknowing that where it may go
		It will be invited to stay.

	O sister! we dwell not in heaven
		But earth wherein guile brings us woe—
	Oh confess not the soul-gem be given!
		Till warmly besought to do so!

	If mortals were free from all guile
		As angels who see as they're seen,
	If never a heart-winning smile
		Concealed a foul ulcer within;

	If Scorn, with her finger upreared,
		Stood not ready to strike in her might,
	If even the mortal revered
		Could read your pure motives aright,

	Then womanhood's glorious crown
		Unasked might be given with pride;
	But in wilds where dire dangers abound,
		Oh, lay not your armor aside!

	No passion should break our control,
		No love supersede love of God—
	This anchor made fast to the soul
		Will save from the angriest flood.
									LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Preserve Fruit Jellies from Mold.—Cover the
surface one fourth of an inch deep with fine pulver-
ized loaf sugar.  When thus protected, the jellies
will keep for years in good condition, and free from
mouldiness.
	Small Bread Pudding.—Boil one pint of milk
with a piece of cinnamon and lemon-peel; pour it
on two ounces of bread-crumbs; add two eggs, half
an ounce of currants and a little sugar: steam it in
a buttered mold for about an hour.
	Plain Baked Eggs.—Butter a dish that will bear
the heat of the oven; break the eggs carefully into
it and season with a little butter, salt, and pepper
if desired; putting the butter in small pieces over.
Place in a slack oven till set, and serve.
	Bread and Butter Pudding.—Butter a dish well,
and sprinkle some currants all around it; then lay
in slices of bread and butter; to two eggs well
whipped add one pint of boiling milk, sweeten
with sugar and pour it over the bread and butter.
Bake in a hot oven.
	Toast and Eggs.—Break the eggs into a stewpan
and add a little salt, pepper and fresh butter; set
the stewpan over a moderate fire and stir round
with a spoon, being careful to keep every particle
in motion until the whole has become a smooth and
delicate thickish substance; have ready convenient
sized crisp pieces of toast, pour the eggs upon
them and serve.
	Cottage Cheese.—Place thick, loppered milk on
the stove, and let it heat thoroughly, not to cook,
or it will be hard. Pour into a hot cloth, and let
it drain until dry; season with salt and butter.
Should it be rather dry, moisten with milk or
cream, and make into balls. Some prefer what is
called "smearkase." Prepare the milk as stated
above, but, instead of making into balls, thin with
sweet cream and add a little pepper.
	To Clean Floor Oil-Cloths.—Soap should not be
[Column 2]
used in cleaning oil-cloths. To half a pail of hot,
soft water, add half a cup of washing fluid, or a
piece of sal-soda half the size of an egg, with a
scrubbing-brush or broom rub hard, putting on only
sufficient water so that it will not run off; wipe dry
with a soft cloth; it will look as bright and shining
as when new. This is a good way to clean com-
mon paint, as it easily removes smoke, grease, or
dust, and does not destroy the gloss or varnish. It
is also useful in washing windows.
	Rice Milk.—Wash a tablespoonful of good rice,
drain and put into a stewpan with a pint of milk
upon the fire; when boiling place it at the corner
to simmer until the rice is quite tender, (for inva
lids it must be a pulp); sweeten with sugar and it
is quite ready. Or if preferred it may be sea-
soned with a little butter and salt. It should be
about the thickness of well made gruel, and it is
very nutritious especially for an invalid who has
been long ill.
	Poached Eggs,—Put a pint of water in a stew
pan; add half a teaspoonful of salt, place it over
the fire and when boiling break your eggs into it as
near the surface of the water as possible, let them
boil gently about three minutes; care should be
taken not to boil too many together; if the yolk
separates from the white it may be presumed that
the egg is not fresh, though the same thing may
happen through awkwardness in poaching. After
they are taken carefully from the water, placed in a
warm dish and drained, lay over them some pieces
of butter, and place before the fire or in a warm
oven for a moment only. Some people think to
add a small quantity of vinegar to the water in
which eggs are poached is an improvement. 
	For Cleansing the Hair and Scalp.—In the
warm days of summer, with dust and perspiration,
the heads of people, especially of laborers and
children, get very dirty, and common washing will
not remove this. Here is a recipe, given by a no-
ted lecturer on hygiene: In a pint bottle put a
spoonful of olive oil and add two ounces of best
spirits of ammonia or hartshorn; shake. Then
mix with three ounces of alcohol and, when thor-
oughly mixed fill the bottle with soft water. Re-
member to put in the ingredients in the order named
or you will have "stuff," and no chemical union at
all. To apply, take a spoonful or two of this, with
a little warm water; dip a sponge or rag in and
wet the scalp thoroughly, now rinse off in a plenty
of warm water, and you will be surprised at the
amount of dirt, though you may have thought your
head perfectly clean. For the heads of young in-
fants it is just the thing, as it instantly removes the
dirty scurf without pain or trouble. It should be
rather weaker for a babe than for an adult.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	LIE DOWN AND REST.—Dr. Hall says the
best medicine in the world, more efficient
than all the potencies of the materia medi-
ca, are warmth, rest, cleanliness and pure
air. Some persons make it a virtue to brave
disease to "keep up" as long as they can
move a foot or crook a finger, and it some-
times succeeds; but in others the powers of
life are thereby so completely exhausted
that the system has lost all ability to recu-
perate, and slow and typhoid fever sets in,
and carries the patient to a premature
grave.  Whenever walking or working is
an effort, a warm bed and a cold room are
the first indispensable steps to a sure and
speedy recovery.  Instinct leads all beasts
and birds to quietude and rest the very mo.
ment disease or wounds assail the system.

	GOING TO BED.—We should never go to
bed with a hope for rest, sleep and perfect
repose until "all ready." The prelimina-
ries for retirement are just as important as
those for the day's duties. We must not go
to bed with an overloaded stomach, in an

[Column 2]
anxious or troubled state of mind, with
cold extremities, or without anticipating
or responding to the calls of nature in all
respects. Standing over a register, or be-
fore a warm stove, or in a heated room, is
not the best way to get warm for a night's
sleep. We should take such vigorous exer-
cise as will give quick circulation to the
blood, and not depend on artificial but natu-
ral heat. Attention to all these things, fol-
lowed by such devotional exercises as will
bring all the feelings, emotions and senti-
ments into accord with the divine will, sub-
duing passions, removing hatred, malice,
jealousy, revenge, and opening the portals
of heaven to all who seek rest, peace and
sweet repose.—Science of Health.
	EATING WITHOUT AN APPETITE.—Hall
says:—"It is wrong to eat without an appe-
tite, for it shows there is no gastric juice in
the stomach, and that nature does not need
food; and not needing it, there being no
fluid to receive and act upon it, it remains
there only to putrefy, the very thought of
which should be sufficient to deter any man
from eating without an appetite for the re-
mainder of his life. If a tonic is taken to
whet the appetite, it is a mistaken course,
for its only result is to cause one to eat more,
when already an amount has been eaten be-
yond what the gastric is able to prepare.
The object to be obtained is a larger supply
of gastric juice, not a larger supply of food;
and whatever fails to accomplish that essen-
tial object fails to have any efficiency to-
ward the cure of dyspeptic diseases. The
formation of gastric juices is directly pro-
portioned to the wear and tear of the sys-
tem, which is to be the means of supplying,
and this wear and tear can only take place
as the result of exercise. The efficient
remedy for dyspepsia is work—out-door
work—beneficial and successful in direct
proportion as it is agreeable, interesting and
profitable.
	CIDER AND COFFEE AS MEDICINES.—
Common sweet cider boiled down to one-
half makes a most excellent syrup for coughs
and colds for children—is pleasant to the
taste, and will keep throughout the year in
a cool cellar.
	In recovering from an illness, the system
has a craving for some pleasant acid drink.
This is found in cider which is placed on
the fire as soon as made, and allowed to
come to a boil, then cooled, put in casks, and
kept in a cool cellar. Treated thus it re-
mains for many months as good as the day
it was made.
	We once saved the life of an infant which
had been inadvertently drugged with laud-
anum, and was fast sinking into the sleep
which has no awaking, by giving it strong
coffee, cleared with the white of an egg, a
teaspoonful every five minutes until it
ceased to seem drowsy.—Hall's Jour. Health.


﻿ALL MEN ARE CREATED EQUAL.

	Many men, many minds—many judges,
many judgments. In Illinois, the judges
in the Supreme Court held that the maxim of
independence, "all men are created equal,"
does not extend to women, and that by vir-
tue thereof, or of anything else, they have
no right of suffrage. In the same State,
another Supreme Court decides that this
maxim does apply to vagrant children, so
that a statute providing for the rescue of
such "little wanderers," and the commital
of them to a reformatory school is unconsti-
tutional, and a "tyrannical and oppressive"
infringement upon the liberties of the citi-
zens. In effect, therefore, juvenile va-


grancy receives judicial sanction, and the
State is powerless to protect and save desti-
tute minors and orphans! We thought
"Salus populi suprema lex."—Canada Law
Jrournal.


﻿			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.

					For the EXPONENT.
	My dear Sisters, prompted by a desire to
do good, I wish, with the Lord's help, to
give you some little food for thought. To
begin with some of the Lord's own sayings,
(Book of Doctrine and Covenants, 150th
page,) "Against none is his wrath kindled,
save those who confess not his hand in all
things." Now you must acknowledge the
hand of God in all circumstances under
which you are placed, or come under con-
demnation, which latter you do not wish to
do, therefore pause, reflect, and strive to
bring yourselve's into subjection to the will
of God, and the holy principles he has re-
vealed for the salvation of the human fam-
ily. Uphold and sustain your husbands in
all things in the Lord, and ever keep the
feeling in your hearts, that their motives
and desires are pure, though they may
sometimes come short of doing their duty.
It involves on you to make their burdens
light instead of adding to them. What-
ever may transpire, let your words and ac-
tions be for the promotion of peace and good
will, thus gaining the approbation of your
Holy Parent and the increased love of him
who of all others you most desire to please.
"Like begets like," and if we give kindness
we will receive the same in return. If your
husbands should, in your eyes, sometimes
fail to come up to the mark of perfection
that you have laid out for them, consider
they are but mortal, and likely, as well
as yourselves to step aside from the
straight and narrow path. Would you re-
quire more of another than you are able to
perform? And besides, you might not at
all times be righteous judges of another's
actions; remember it is only when filled with
the spirit of God that any one is capable of
judging righteously, or of comprehending
things in their true light. Then how nec-
essary it is to be possessed of that spirit
continually, realizing that it is as much a
duty to be happy as to perform any other
good act. The most charitable people are
the happiest, and each one who has a desire
to live the life of a true saint must cultivate
that charity which will never think evil
when it is possible to do otherwise. There
are very few who really mean to do wrong.
The Poet says:
	"Time to me this truth hath taught—
		'Tis a truth that's worth revealing—
	More offend from want of thought,
		Than from any want of feeling."
	Sisters, ever keep this in mind, and it
will aid materially in bringing you to that
state of happiness and union to which the
saints are striving to attain.
						M. A. F.

	PROVIDENCE CACHE Co., Nov. 29th 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	As one of your many subscribers, I would
humbly ask permission for a small insertion
in your columns.
	I have often thought I would like to
write, but realizing my inability to write
anything that would be of benefit to my sis-
ters, I have always refrained from trying.
Now, however, I have determined to try
and will do the best I can. "If we never
try, we will never learn to do better," one
of my sisters said in a late letter to the EX-
[Column 2]
PONENT. She had not, she said, "the cour-
age or power to stand up in meeting and
express her ideas and feelings." I fear that
this is the case with a great many of us,
and while perhaps, we may be afraid to
speak as we would like in meeting, we can
give utterance to our feelings through the
columns of our EXPONENT.
	We have a Relief Society here in Provi-
dence, the members of which, under the
presidency of Sister Mathews, meet once a
month. We have good meetings. Sister
Mathews always encourages the sisters to
do right, and be one with her in helping
to take care of the sick and needy.
	Since I have been a subscriber to the EX-
PONENT, I have been very much interested
in perusing its columns. I never take one
up to read, but I learn something whereby
I am benefitted. We often think we have
not leisure time to spare for reading, our
time being taken up with family affairs,
but if we would be determined, and make
up our minds to read, especially the EXPO-
NENT, we would derive much good from it,
and more so if we read to inform our minds
in regard to spiritual as well as temporal
welfare. I have always been a great lover
of books and literature, and ever since I
have had the responsibility of a family, I
can always find a little time to devote to
reading the papers as they come along.
	Wishing you success and a larger circula-
tion, and trusting that the next time I write
I may do better, I remain Your well-wisher,
				ELIZABETH S. NYE.


[Column 1]
		AN APPEAL TO WOMEN.

		BY CLARA E. SYLVESTER.

	Particularly to my sister woman do I ad-
dress myself. She seems unconscious of the
work that is required of her, and that God
intends her to perform, and that now is the
time to prepare herself for her future work.
Therefore I would that she awake to a
knowledge of the truth. In order to ob-
tain it she must seek it. To whom and
where should she go? Surely not to man!
But to the high unseen Ruler of the Uni-
verse. The way is open to all, and so sim-
ple that even a child may not err.
	A feeling of apathy and indolence exists
that must eventually be swept away by the
growth of the seeds of truth, right and
justice, that have been scattered broadcast
o'er the land. 'Tis time for action to take
the place of theory; time for woman to show
more self-reliance; time to break away from
false customs that are dragging her down-
ward and rapidly destroying true woman-
hood.
	The agitation of Woman Suffrage has
done much to alleviate her condition. How
much more might be done, were she a 
recognized power, possessed of individu-
ality and courage, to act according to her
knowledge of right! Is she not amenable
to higher law? Then let her be guided by
that, rather than by a false state of society
and erring creeds.
	Woman, come out from the false state in 
which society has placed you! Be true to
yourself, true to nature and the God with-
in you. Many, very many would gladly
throw off the hypocritical mantle that en-
velopes them, but alas! the fear of public
censure binds them. The time is not far
distant when all must choose between the 
false and the true. Every one should stand
by the one great principle of right. What
we want is more persons who are willing to
labor hard with but small recompense.
[Column 2]
	Women, why will you remain in ignor-
ance in slavery, for slaves you are, slaves to
fashion, slaves to public opinion and slaves
to yourselves. Your mission is a high one.
Were you free and unfettered, you would
soon attain a higher state, and thereby re-
form society and remove the iron heel that
would crush you for daring to assume the
right of your own person.
	Woman, could you but see the power
given you by nature, and use that power to
elevate yourself; if you would aspire to the
high and moral standard marked out for 
you from the beginning; if you would seek
that high, noble, state, attainable only by
growth, by living nearer unto "nature's
God;" by striving to obey "Divine law;"
seeking to understand yourself; following
the dictates of your inner nature, take rea-
son for your guide; throw off the hypocriti-
cal mantle of society and come out in the 
light of truth; women, could you see the
better life to which you are hastening, to
which destiny is pushing you, and for which 
so many noble minds are working, you
would be willing to lend a helping hand
rather than retard the progress of events
by opposition and inaction.
	Strange that people are so long in wak-
ing up to these truths; strange they do not
recognize the work of a higher power;
strange they do not see that the world
is on the verge of a great change, and that
the human family are being slowly prepared
for the coming contest of right against
might.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	SWITZERLAND is a little cramped-up
country, but she sent us during the month
of June over a million and a half francs’
worth of silk ribbons, watches and cheese.
	AMONG the curiosities of Brazil is the
pottery-tree. The trunk does not exceed a
foot in diameter, but it grows to the height
of 100 feet. The chief peculiarity, how-
ever is in the nature of the wood and bark,
which contain so much silica that they are
used in the making of earthenware. The
fresh bark cuts like soft sandstone.
	A BROOKLYN gentleman mentions an ex-
traordinary instance of longevity in a single
family. There are five old ladies at his old
homestead. Four are widows, one is a
spinster. Their ages are as follows: Deb-
orah, ninety-six; Mary, ninety-five; Re-
becca, eighty-six; Elizabeth, eighty-two;
Harriet, seventy-six. They are daughters
of Capt. Zophar Weekes. His wife (their
mother) was a native of Jamaica, L. I., and
lived till over ninety. The father came
from near Huntington, L. I. The first,
third and fourth are the permanent occu-
pants of one house. All of them are well
preserved, able to go about and attend to
light work, and with the exception of a
little deafness in two instances have their
“faculties” scarcely impaired.
	MR. J. J. H. Gregory of Marblehead,
Mass., offers to give, during the coming
winter, a loaf of bread, morning and eve-
ning, ro every person in that town, who will
call upon him.


MISS Irene Smith is President of the
Excelsior Elocutionary Society of Corvallis,
Oregon, Miss Lou Taylor is Treasurer. 
	A SCRIPTURE lesson from Punch: Precep-
tor—“Now can, any of you tell me anything
remarkable in the life of Moses?” Boy
—“Yes, sir; he was the only man who broke
all the commandments at once!"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿PEN AND SCISSORS.
	IF a bird in the hand is worth two in the 
bush, it is no less true that a thorn in the
bush is worth two in the hand.
	IT is said that every woman appears dif-
ferent to every man, and every nature has
its separate watchword, which answers to
one and will not correspond to another.
Not always "just so."
	IT is related of Sir James Simpson, the
celebrated English physician, that the Duch-
ess of Buccleuch drove up to his door, and
sent her footman to tell that she waited
without. "Tell the Duchess," he replied,
"That Dr. Simpson is engaged with a wash-
erwoman."
	A THEATRICAL paper recently contained
the following advertisement: "Alice Gil-
more and her mother, Fanny Gilmore, have
consolidated, and will hereafter travel to-
gether, and be known as the Gilmore sis-
ters." This combination will be one of the
events of the season!
	DABNEY Jones, becoming restive under
a ten years term in the Washington Terri-
tory Penitentiary, got out his jack knife,
cut a hole in the concern, and stepped out
into the world. They are now going to put
on an additional layer of laths to make the
thing secure.
	THE word "imp" originally signified
"young man." Edward VI. is so styled in
a letter of Crammer, and a young son of
Dudley, Earl of Leicester, who, as is sup-
posed, was poisoned by his nurse, is des-
cribed as an imp in the inscription on his
tomb at Warwick.
	AN exchange feels sorry to learn a Ger-
man chemist has succeeded in making a
first-rate brandy out of sawdust. So are
we. What chances will the temperance
movement have when a man can take a rip-
saw and go out and get drunk on a fence
rail.
	THE moderator of a certain Presbytery in
Scotland is reported to have said to a candi-
date for the ministery, who had left broom-
making, "My young friend, the Presbytery
believes that all men should glorify God in
some way—some by preaching and some by
making brooms—and that you are one who
should make the brooms."
	A MINISTER, having a cultured, judicious
wife, invited her free criticism on his ser-
mons, much to his profit. On one occasion,
having preached from the text, "Remember
Lot's wife," he asked her opinion of the
discourse. Her reply was: "I think, hus
band, it was one of your poorest efforts, and
I would advise you to have nothing more
to do with other men's wives."
	AT a recent session of the Asiatic Society,
Mr. L. Schwendler showed a crow's nest,
made of pieces of telegraph wire, twisted
together in a most ingenious and knowing
manner. He said that lately such nests had
been frequently found, and that the crows
often selected telegraph posts, between
which and the telegraph wires they built
those wire nests, causing what is known as
"earth" and "contact," and interfering with
communication. Crows, however, were by
no means the only animals interfering, by
their domestic arrangements, with overland
telegraphy. Wasps build their mud nests
in the porcelain insulators, causing, in rain
and dew, leakage from the wire to the
ground. Birds of prey frequently dropped
dead fish and other offal upon the wires,
causing contact. These were all frequent
[Column 2]
sources of temporary interference with
telegraphic communication upon overland
lines, and they, combined with many other
facts not necessary to mention, seemed to 
show that it would be a very great advan-
tage to use subterranean telegraphs instead 
of overland lines.


ACTING CHARADES.

	The curtain of the back drawing-room
was drawn aside, and we were rather sur-
prised to see nothing but a wooden rocking-
horse on the temporary stage. We were
told to guess an island in the Greek archi-
pelago. After somr demur one individual,
brighter than the rest, exclaimed, “Delos—
deal horse.” Right.
	The curtain fell, and after a pause rose
again, displaying to the astonished lookers-
on the very identical, irrepressible rocking-
horse, with his head in the contrary direc-
tion. We were told to guess another island
in the Greek Archipelago.
	There was a dead silence. Some one
vainly suggested "Chios," mispronounced
shy horse; but that would not do, for the
deal horse was as steady as old Time. At
length a small boy, late from school, ex-
claimed, "Samoss!" and it was the same
horse.
	The curtain fell. The next scene was a
portly gentleman, who was met by a young
girl, who said:
	"Doctor, I am glad to meet you."
	A word of five syllables. Give it up.
	"Metaphysician"—met a physician.
	The curtain fell, and was again drawn up
—only to exhibit the same portly gentle-
man and the girl meeting again.
	A word of three syllables.
	“Metaphor”—met a fore was the solution.


BEFORE BREAKFAST.

	It is a fact that some ladies, who in the
street and in the parlor are attractive in ap-
pearance, come down to breakfast in what
is called dishabille. Our opinion is that the
whole family ought to look well in the
morning. It is important that the calico
and the breakfast dress be rightly adjusted
as well as the afternoon silk and the basque.
it takes but little longer and it pays well.
The children of the household ought to un-
derstand that whatever can be done by
brush, and mirror, and ribbon, should be
done at the start of the day. The first hour
of the morning decides whether our children
shall be gentlemen and ladies or boors and
slovens. But the younger members of the
family will not observe domestic order if the
father and mother look like a “perfect
fright.” Parents are the mirror by which
their children dress.—Golden Dawn.


A PRACTICAL joke was once attempted to
be played on Mr. Erskine as he went one
day to Westminster Hall with his ample
bag crammed full of briefs. Some waggish
barristers hired a Jew's boy to go and ask
him if he had "any old clo's to sell?" "No,
you little Hebrew imp," exclaimed the in-
dignant counselor, "they are all new suits."


AN Irish post-having driven a gentleman
a long stage during torents of rain, the gen-
tleman civilly said to him, "Paddy are you
not very wet?" Arrah, I don't care about
being very wet; but, plaze your honor, I'm
very dry."


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,
				GO TO
			MRS. C. E. DYE'S,
			19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES' & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
			Of the Latest Style.
	Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.

		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF 
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
			GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

		H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE

	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-

tionary in Salt Lake city.  Just the place for ladies

to purchase.

CLUB RATES.

	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	 $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50		-	-	-	-	- 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scribe, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


﻿Woman's Exponent.
VOL 3. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1875.			NO. 15


[Column 2]
		A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
			       
     FROM THE "HERALD OF HEALTH."
			       
	On the first day of each dawning year it
is the, custom of nearly all civilized men and
women, throughout the world, to address
each other in salutations of smiling cheer
and mutual good wishing. It is a very an-
cient and beautiful custom. Old earth would
be a sad and dreary home to us all without
such recurring occasions for gleeful and
kindly greetings. Yet, beautiful as this glad
custom is, it would be still more beautiful
if the words in which its import is conyeved
were not so very frequently contradicted by
the acts which accompany it. A young
man enters the drawing-room to make his
New Year's call. The ladies with joyous
greeting and happy New Year wishings,
perhaps proffer the wine glass, and thus
sanction a habit and a custom that will al-
most certainly make the New Year an un-
happy one. There is certainly no Happy
New Year to be found in this way of wish-
ing it. Oh! fine and beautiful friends, do
not in your mistaken obedience to fashion
 and custom—a custom of a darker day than
ours, with the light of science and progress
beaming on it—permit yourselves to become
allies of such a tempter. But we must not
confine our New Year’s salutation entirely
to our lady friends. There are young men,
brothers and friends, whom we desire to
council; and we pray you who have hereto-
fore toyed with this fashionable practice of
sipping wine on New Year’s day to do so no
longer. It opens a door which you may
never be able to shut; it unchains a monster
that may devour you as you lie helplessly
chained to the habit.
	But wine drinking on New Year’s day is
not the only habit that curses and dwarfs our
race. If it were we could soon oust it from
its abode and send it to the dark and forgot-
ten past. The curse of lethargy lies like a
spell on many promising youths, who are sur-
rounded by wealth and all their hearts de-
sire, so they do not rouse themselves to a
proper appreciation: of the dignity and
'grandeur of life. To all such we say: Cut
yourselves loose from your moorings and
throw yourselves into the current of life's
work, and fight its battles nobly, making the
earth brighter and better for your life. Then
there is the curse of overwork and worry,
that grinds away the lives of the very best
of our kind, long before they should go
leaving a void that cannot be filled. Then
again there is the curse of ignorance, that
wrecks multitudes that are wortrh saving;
and the curse of tobacco, that befouls our
fair land from end to end, and the curse of
disease, that might and should be blotted
out; and worse than all, the great curse of
sensuality, that hides its head in the heart
and soul of the land, and fouls and blots the
fair face of humanity, till all cry out to God
for help. Oh! friends and brothers, these
curses it belongs to us to remove. Shall we
not do it? Shall we not, as the New Year
dawns on our vision, rouse ourselves to the
Herculean task, and throw off the loads
which weigh us down? But we must not
preach a long sermon, with a long face, and
so we wish a Happy New Year to friends

[Column 2]
and readers everywhere, and will end by
giving a few hints that may aid us in gain-
ing that blessing that adds so much to our
strength, our courage, our hope, our power
to endure.
	Happiness comes by keeping the body
and mind healthy and strong. Happiness
comes from the overflow of life. True, many
are happy who are not healthy, but they
are favored mortals. Happiness comes
from wholesome occupation.
	It also comes from rest and recreation.
	It comes from study and reflection.
	It comes from moderate wealth, wisely
used.
	It comes from friends, and sweet commun-
ion with those we love.
	It comes from homes and children.
	It comes from love to God and man.
	It comes from the joys of pure and unde-
filed religion. 
	It comes from hope and love, faith and
charity.
	It is the gift of God to those who love
him, and wisely use what he has bestowed
on them. Let us, then, one and all, as the
New Year breaks on our vision, wish each
other a happy New.Year, and each do some-
thing to make it so, not only for ourselves
but for others. Then shall joy fill our hearts,
and life be sweet and beautiful.


FROM ST. GEORGE.

				17th December,  1874.
Dear EXPONENT:—
	I noticed an item in a late number of your
excellent paper, in which it is asserted that
the little town of Plano, Ill., is without a
saloon or whiskey shop. That is nice and I
could wish every other little town and big one
too would follow the example. If that item
is worthy of remark, I feel to place Utah on
the credit list too. There are, in our Terri-
tory, over one hundred cities and towns,
containing populations varying from one
hundred to twenty thousand. Out of the
number, there are as many as seventy-five
cities and towns, that grant no licenses to
sell spirits, and have no saloons; among the
number I am proud to place our delightful
city in the lead upon that list—we have no
saloons, gaming houses, nor any institution
that is a breeder of immorality or crime.
We have made, the past season, 20,000 gal-
lons of wine, and yet I have not seen a
drunken man in three months, I might say
six.
	Now, are we not excusable for the exer-
cise of a little modest pride for our adopted
city? as well as for all others, who refuse to
put the cup to another's lip.
	The weather is charming. To-day I
picked fresh from the garden two bouquets
for the mantle.  My house plants are doing
finely, and it would give me pleasure to an-
swer any queries of those who desire aid or
information tending to the increase of beau-
tiful flowers, or delicious fruit. The work
on the temple is very rapidly progressing, I
am told that fifty tons of rock are daily
placed on the walls.
	President Young seems to be in good
health and excellent spirits. I saw him tak-
ing an airing in his carriage to-day. Bros.


﻿Branch, Romney and Snow (not Prest.) have
leased the Gardener’s Club Hall, for purposes
of amusement, and are erecting a stage and
getting in scenery preparatory to giving
some rational amusements for the Holidays,
and many of the long winter evenings.
	For the moment adieu.
						FLORA.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	YALE opened recently her 175th academic
year. Her examinations for admission are
much more searching of recent years than
formerly, so that it can no longer hold true,
as was formerly said, that she was "easy to
enter but hard to stay in."
	PARIS dispatches say the Rothschilds
have advanced 30,000,000 reals to the Span-
ish Government, and to the bankers of Madrid
150,000,000 reals more. Rumors prevail
that Don Carlos is negotiating with ex-
Queen Isabella. 
	COUNT Zobowitz, an Austrian Lieutenant,
lately made a heavy bet that he would ride
from Vienna to Paris on one horse in fifteen
days. He won his bet, being just twelve
minutes within the time and his horse show-
ing no signs of fatigue. He was received
at the Barriere du Trone by 2,000 people.
The bets on the event are said to be more
than $1,000,000.
	IN Russia there is but one physician to
17,000 souls. In some of the provincial di-
visions the disproportion is still greater.
In one, Cherdink, there is only one to every
30,000 persons. There is only one hospital
to every 175,000, one lying-in hospital to
every 6,000 women, and but one deaf and
dumb institution to every 11,000 inhabi-
tants. In the army there is one hospital to
every 5,000 men. Prussia has one surgeon
to every 1,250 soldiers. Italy has one phys-
cian to every 2,280, and England to every
3,180 persons.


LITTLE FOLKS' DICTIONARY.

	A writer in the Schoolday Magazine has
gathered together the following dictionary
of words as defined by certain small people
here and there:
	Back-biter—A flea.
	Bed-time—Shut-eye-time.
	Dust—Mud with the juice all squeezed
out.
	Fan—A thing to brush the warm off
with.
	Fins—A flshe’s wings.
	Ice—Water that stayed out in the cold
and went to sleep.
	Monkey—A very little boy with a tail.
	Nest-egg—The egg the old hen measures
by to make new ones.
	Pig—A hog’s little boy.
	Salt—What makes your potato taste bad
when you don’t put any on.
	Snoring—Letting off sleep.
	Snow—Rain all poped out white.
	Stars—The moon’s eggs.
	Wakefulness—Eyes all the time coming
unbu toned.
	A Small Catechism—Kittenchism.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
	HOLIDAY RHYMES

Happy, joyous, merry christmas!
	Can it be that welcome sound?
Yes, again the day is with us,
	Passing on its yearly round.

"Merry Christmas!" "Merry Christmas!"
	Gleeful hearts their gladness gush—
Hark! conflicting sounds are mingled;
	Mirthful ones—a moment hush!

"Santa Claus in last night's visits,
	Childish treasures to bestow, 
Missed SO MANY little stockings,
	That he filled a year ago!"

Yet, O! weep not, loving "Santa,"
	For the tiny missing feet
Do not stray, they have but entered
	A bright, sunny, safe retreat.

Sing again ye joyous earthlings,
	Ere the garlands disappear
Which have crowned your Merry Christmas,
	Dawns the Happy, glad New Year.

May it be indeed the brightest
	That our lives have ever known;
May we realize the mercies
	God hath to His children shown.

And draw nearer to Our Father,
	Happy that THE TIME is near,
When His Saints shall greet the dawning
	Of a glorious, grand New Year!
								LULA.


﻿R.S. REPORTS.

	FIRST WARD, SALT LAKE CITY,
		 			   	Dec.	15th	1874.
DEAR EDITOR:—
	We are improving, as we hope to con-
tinue doing, through the blessings of the
Lord in whom we trust, as a Relief Society
and as individuals. We endeavor to be al-
ways on hand to assist the poor or to aid in
any good undertaking. We had a general
meeting on Thanksgiving Day, and had our
sisters from the city, Miss Eliza R. Snow,
Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs.
P. Woodruff, Mrs. E. Howard, Mrs. W.
East, Mrs. S.M. Kimball and Mrs. M. Young.
The principles of unity, Celestial Marriage
and the training of children were the chief
subjects spoken upon. Besides the sisters
named, remarks were made by our Presi-
dent Mrs. M.G. Chase, and her Counselors
Mrs. Julia Adams and Mrs. Sidney Thayne;
also by our Bishop, Joseph Warburton. A
good spirit prevailed and we felt that it truly
was a Thanksgiving Day.
		MRS. JANE E. VAN TASSELL,
							Secretary. 
		
	The Relief Society of Smithfield, Cache
county, is reported by the Secretary, Mrs.
Jane S. Coleman, to be still faithfully striv-
ing to comfort and bless the poor in their
midst, and to promote the interests of the
Kingdom of God. They have lately made
four bed quilts for a donation towards build-
ing the Temple.


[Column 1]
﻿					For the Exponent
		PRESENT AND FUTURE.
		         
	I have not chosen this subject to write
upon because I feel competent to treat it
thoroughly or throw any additional light
upon it; but because it is a subject of great
interest to me, and by thinking, speaking,
and writing upon this, as upon all other sub-
jects, I know that the information I receive
will be more strongly impressed upon my
mind.
	The Present is a time which we all desire
should be as pleasant as possible, and it is
within the power of each person to make it
so. We in a great degree have the order-
ing of our lives, either for joy or sorrow.
We have also the power within ourselves to

[Column 2]
make more or less sunshine and happiness
for all who are within the circle of our in-
fluence. Although we may be placed in
very trying circumstances, and surrounded
by those who take delight in troubling and
perplexing, still we can have true inward
peace, by reliance upon the "Giver of every
good and perfect gift," and by acting in ac-
cordance with the teachings of the Holy
Spirit which is sure to bring satisfaction to
the soul. We can invariably find happiness
while listening to the dictates of a con-
science made sensitive under the influence
of the Spirit of God. We must not rely
upon pleasant surroundings and devoted
friends for enjoyment. But we must have
pure, contented spirits within before we
can secure happiness from without. True
happiness can only be enjoyed through the
knowledge that we are doing right and are
entitled to the approbation of our Heavenly
Father.
	Our present time should be devoted to
cultivation that our hearts may feel the in-
spiration which leads us on to duty and use-
fulness. That the desire of our whole souls
may be to do good, that we may each one
have an "Eye single to the Glory of God."
When we reflect upon how earnestly we de-
sire happiness during our short sojourn here
upon earth, is it not reasonable to think that
we will even more earnestly desire it in the
hereafter which is to be everlasting? And
when we think that our conduct in the
present is to determine our state in the Fu-
ture is it not enough to inspire us to put
forth greater exertions than we have ever
done before, and try to obtain a reward
worthy of the noblest ambition? There is
a record kept on high out of which we are
to be judged, and in which will be recorded
every action of our lives, every word that
we utter. And the account in the great
Future will stand as a witness either for or
against us. We may indulge in thoughts
that were they known to our fellow beings
would cause our cheeks to burn with shame.
But they are wafted on high, and are known
to God and his holy angels. In our work of
preparation we must school our feelings to
bear and forbear, to be tried to the utter-
most in the cause of righteousness, and for-
get not to acknowledge the hand of a just
God in all our afflictions. For against none
is the anger of the Lord kindled except
those who acknowledge not his hand in all
things. My young sisters, when we reflect
upon the many opportunities that we have
in the Present for cultivating our minds,
and when we think of the responsible po-
sitions that are awaiting us in the not far
distant Future—positions that we are ex-
pected to fill with honor, as wives and
mothers in Israel, should it not arouse us
from a state of indifference in which we re-
pose, thinking all will be well? It is our
duty to prepare ourselves for bringing forth
and cultivating the minds of those who are
to bear off the Kingdom of God triumph-
ant. It has been said that the children of
the saints are growing up in unbelief of the
principles of the Gospel. Let us examine
ourselves and see if we believe that this is
the true plan of salvation, and if it is not
satisfactory to us, if there are some princi-
ples that we cannot see clearly, let us not
cease to pray to God until he gives us a
testimony of the truth of the work in which
we are engaged. And then, having re-
ceived a testimony, let us live up to every
requirement, omitting no known duty. And
while doing so, we may have the assurance
that the angels are preparing for us crowns
of eternal salvation, the reward of our
present faithfulness.			L. T.


For the EXPONENT.
		HERE AND HEREAFTER.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	How often we hear such expressions as
"The present is ours, the future we know
nothing about, it is all uncertainty, wrapt
in profound mystery." We should be care-
ful to qualify our words and not fall into the
channel of tradition and past education, for-
getting that the light of revelation has
dawned upon us; that a Divine Messenger
has been sent to tell us we are HERE by our
own consent. We are not left to grope in
darkness and in superstition, misguided, we
have been more peculiarly favored. All the
learning of Christendom has not made plain
the simple fact, that we had a previous ex-
istence. The gifted and immortalized By-
ron in his Celebrated prayer, one of the
finest poems ever written, cried out in his
anguish of heart,
	“Without my own consent, I came."
	We are here for a purpose, every one of
us; here to prove our integrity before high
heaven; here to develop the faculties which
have been implanted in our natures, and to
make good use of our time in doing our Fa-
ther's work. Not to abuse, or neglect our
opportunities for advancement. Do we order
our lives with reference to the hereafter,
keeping the conviction continually in view,
not in fear, not in dread, but guiding, di-
recting, inspiring us to achieve a work of
which we need not be ashamed when we go
home again into the presence of our Father?
We must render an account then, without
help from others; without the influence of
friends; not resting upon another's faith;
not trusting to another's knowledge; our
own acts, our own merits must speak for
themselves. We are permitted to help each
other here, to reach out after the weak and
erring, and O! how kind and merciful and
tender we should be, that we lay not a straw
in their path. But ever watchful of those
around us, or those entrusted to our care and
guidance, demonstrate our true charity by
genuine acts of mercy; strengthening, com-
forting, sustaining those whose hearts are
aching, whose bosoms have been pierced,
reminding them of the hereafter in which
they must act their own individual parts.
Thus we may make soft pillows for our
heads when we come to lie in the grave;
showing that sweet charity which is needful;
commending where we can, objecting where
we must, sincere in sorrow for a fault, re-
joicing without envy for a virtue; daring to
stand alone if necessary, having sufficient
moral courage to condemn vice; and although
some hate, some deride and many shun us,
we will not go weakly along with the cur-
rent stream of popularity; though the world
be loud to condemn us, and though we suf-
fer wrong, we look forward to the great
hereafter.
	Shall we be sorry then for any strait and
narrow places through which we have passed
safely, for any crooked path we have trodden
alone? Will there not be joy in our hearts
for the experience we have gained, for the
victory we have achieved.
	Mothers, sisters, we are the pioneers of a
great army who are learning to battle for
life with its opposing elements; and for all
the sorrowful, for all the weak, for all who
have borne neglect in silence and in meek-
ness, for all who have sought to live pure
lives there is one resource which never fails;
therefore let them look from the shattered
idol of their hopes here, from the broken
mirror to the unbroken light reflected from
the Eternal Love that never fails. And re-


member still that all pure love brings its bur-
den as well as its joy; but let HIM be always
nearest, His voice always clearest to be heard,
easiest to be understood, dearest to follow;
what He desires our closest care. The voice
of God is no inarticulate music, but a living
voice, whose “Woe unto the workers of in-
iquity" is real and needed as his “Come un-
to, me all ye that are weary and heavy la-
den.”
	The present is good, if we only under-
stood ourselves properly and we are learning
it daily; and as we learn trying to benefit
others; the future is ours, we belong to it,
we shall assuredly have to take part in it;
and if we can only thoroughly prepare our-
selves here, refreshing and gladdening
others, who may weary of the way, blessing
humanity and advancing true knowledge,
we shall indeed receive a rich recom-
pense, a glorious reward in the great here-
after.
SALT LAKE CITY, Dec. 11th, 1874.


crush out every feeling of joy and interest
in the happiness of others, every feeling of
charity, of patience and endurance for their
failings and sorrows.
	Whether God requires of us the fulfill-
ment of this commandment in its fullest
sense and meaning I know not; at present,
to us it seems impossible.
	We know that to look upon bright spark-
ling waters, to behold others partaking
freely, will not quench our burning thirst;
nor will it satisfy the knawing hunger to
gaze upon the board spread with plenty.
But we fall far short of even a partial fulfill-
ment, and there is much, very much to do
before He could in any wise say, you have
loved your neighbor is yourself.
							HOPE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		GOOD MANNERS.

	Written for and read before the 14th Ward
Literary Association, a few evenings pre-
vious to the death of the author.

	I have some where read that "Man's great
business is to improve his mind and govern
his manners." And again, "Mend your
manners and that will mend your fortune."
I do not call my subject "Etiguette," for
that is suggestive of much that is frivolous.
But good manners founded on the great law
of kindness embraced in the "Golden Rule,"
"Do unto others as you would have them do
unto you," is what I wish to advocate.
	This principle if given heed to will lead
us aright early and late, at home or abroad,
in public or in private, in the small group as
well as in the great assembly.  It will be a
sufficient guide in the intercourse of father
with son, husband with wife, teacher with
pupil, friend with friend, citizen with stran-
ger and so we might go on indefinitely.
	Where this law is observed in any house-
hold, we will see deference for age, com-
passion for the oppressed, sympathy for the
sick, forgiveness for the guilty penitent,
mercy for the erring, praise for the worthy
act.--In short, there can be no time so late
or so early, no place so public or private, no
station so exalted or obscure, no extreme so
great that the rays of THIS SUN may not
penetrate with genial light and warmth.
	If good manners founded upon this law
of which I have spoken, were prevalent
among the people, should we see such
marked disregard for the comfort of others
as we sometimes do in our public assemblies?
Should we find young people laughing and
talking either in the Tabernacles or in the
Ward meeting? Would young men and
children be rushing to secure the best seats,
while the Patriarch with frosted locks, the
grandma trembling with the weight of years,
or the mother with her sleeping infant in
her arms was standing in the aisle? Would we
see scores of people rising to leave when a
verse or two, and twenty words of prayer
will dismiss the meeting? Would the hal-
lowed quiet of the Sabbath evening be dis-
turbed by a rabble of children let loose for a
frolic? No, we should not be annoyed with
any of these things. I sometimes think it
would be well if our children were all re-
quired, like those of the Presbyterians, to
stay in the house and read some good book,
and thus preserve the peaceful spirit of the
Sacramental day.
	Sacramental! This brings to my mind,

[Column 2]
what I often see, young people partaking
with great levity of the emblems of our
Savior's death. Will not this levity affect
the minds of strangers as the desecration of
the Bible and the cross has the Japanese?
Will not the conduct of the children be re-
garded as an index to the character of the
parents? Who is the father that has reared
such sons! Who is the mother that has
trained such daughters? Will the son or
daughter who feared not God and His ser-
vants sufficiently to refrain from idle talk
and rude conduct in the great Tabernacle,
be found careful of the feelings of a mother
or sister at home?
	In the old church where my father's fami-
ly worshipped, in the days of my childhood,
there was on young lady who was to me a
perfect model of good behavior.  Her style
of dress was chaste yet elegant; her walk
energetic yet graceful; the modest air with
which she entered the door and passed along
the aisle was truly captivating. And then
she sat so still. I never saw her turn her
head to the right or to the left to gaze at
anybody—and as to whispering, I should as
soon have expected the cushions to speak
audibly as for this lovely girl to open her
lips in vain gossip in the house of God!
	You can very soon tell what sort of a
home a person has been reared in, or what
the teacher is in the school where he or she
has been educated. You may be sure when
you meet a woman who possesses a good
heart and cultivated head, that at the fire-
side where she was nurtured and in the
school-room where she was educated, good
manners received due attention.
				  ELEANOR J. PRATT.


﻿LOVE THY NEIGHBOR AS THYSELF.

	All day long this commandment of our
Savior has been sounding in may ear, as
though He were repeating again the words
spoken so many hundred years ago; and
wherever I go I seem to see them writ-
tea in letters bold and indelible.
	Many, many times I have asked, what
did He mean when He. said “Love thy
Neighbor as thyself,” and left the com-
mandment to be handed down to all future
generations?
	Did He know how strongly developed is
the love of self, how it deafens the ear to
the cries of our fellow creatures, how it
blinds the eye to their pain and wants, and
chills or crushes out the purest and most
noble impulses of the heart? Did He real-
ize the weakness of human nature and still
speak those words to us, and expect obedi-
ence? Would He tell us to do that which is
impossible, or did he speak in jest or mock-
ery?
	It is a state of' perfection we must attain
unto before we are prepared for His pres-
ence and glory, and if so what are its re-
quirements?
	Does it merely imply a willingness, or
even a desire to share with others the bless-
ings, the plenty and happiness that we en-
joy, retaining still our portions? Or is it to
stand by and see some object for which we
have lived, have hoped and prayed through-
out long days and years, given to another,
and with words of joy on the lips, and joy
in the heart—such joy as we had felt had
the prize been ours—thank God, and be con-
tent and happy in anothers joy?
	The subject is worthy of our deepest
thought and most careful study, and of ear-
nest endeavor to think less of ourselves and
more of the suffering humanity around us;
lest in the day of reckoning we are found
wanting. Let not this mighty love for self


﻿READING MADNESS; 
	We are again reminded of the dangers
which surround us all, even in pursuit of
the most innocent amusements and the
plainest duties. For instance, reading is
both an amusement and duty to those who
can reach books, and not to read the current
news in the papers is almost looked upon as
criminal at this day in this type-enlightened
country. And yet reading is sometimes
pernicious even to healthy minds, if the
reader absorbs and digests the matter with
avidity and thoroughness. There are sev-
eral instances of students reading them-
selves into every symptom of disease which
elicited their intense interest. Somebody
said to an old apostle that much learning
had made him mad. Whether this was the
fact or not, we know that many persons have
read themselves into incurable insanity, and
it is not at all surprising that religious read-
ing has made many monomaniacs and pious
fanatic.s One curious case of pernicious
reading is that of a doctor, who, though he
never touched intoxicating drinks. read
himself into a clear case of delirium tremens
by intense study of those “jim-jams.” He
actually got the name of being a habitual
drunkard, his practice fell off, and it was
with great difficulty he was finally cured.
Symptoms of consumption and gout and
other diseases have been produced in like
manner, which were almost unmanageable,
and came near proving fatal. The last case
of this character is that of a prominent citi-
zen of Carrollton, La., who read himself in-
to the most violent symptoms of hydropho-
bia. He became intensely interested in the
late newspaper accounts of that disease, and
read everything he could reach on the sub-
ject. It is unnecessary to describe the symp-
toms he developed. They were sufficiently
severe to show that he was in real agony,
and terrible enough to alarm all his friends.
The sight of a dog or of water threw him
into violent convulsions. He loathed food
and drink, and became so violent that it
was necessary four or five men should be-
come his constant watchers day and night.
During his spasms he frothed at the mouth,
and rolled over the floor and yelped like a
dog. Under careful medical treatment he
is likely to recover his wonted heath, but it
 will be a long time before his friends can
trust him to see a dog. This case, which
seems to be well authenticated—though the
name is withheld—is in harmony with the
theory advanced by some that hydrophobia
in man is in nearly every case the result of
a diseased imagination.—St Louis Republi-
can.


A BOARDING house in Greensburg, Ind.,
advertises to furnish “gentlemen with pleas-
ant and comfortable rooms, also one or two
gentlemen with wives.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1875.


﻿For the EXPONENT.
			CHARITY.
	I never thought nor understood much
about charity. But of late, there are many
different opinions expressed concerning it;
which has caused me to think more about it
and search out what I could to gain intelli-
gence. I find that it is not merely giving
to others that makes real chairity. The
more I understand about it, the more it
teaches me to pray and to have faith in God.
And my great desire is that He will let His
Holy Spirit rest upon me, that I may have
that real charity within me, which will
teach me how to act towards those around
me. By reading I find how charity was
taught in days of old. Paul says, “Though
I speak with the tongues of men, and of
angels and have not charity, I am become
as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbol.
Though I bestow all my goods, to feed the
poor, and though I give my body to be
burned, and have not charity, it profiteth
me nothing. Charity suffereth long and is
kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth
not itself, is not puffed up.” This is the.
kind of charity we will have to learn and
practice before we can become one.
							S. A. C.
	11th Ward, Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
			BEAVER, DEC. 8th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	DEAR FRIEND:—Allow me thus to ad-
dress you, although I have not had the pleas-
ure of personally knowing you.
	We had a pleasant time last evening at
Sister Tyler’s, although she is quite ill.
While I was making a call there, your
father and mother came in on their way to
St. George. We had the privilege of re-
ceiving our Patriarchal Blessings from your
father, which to me, is no small thing. We
do not often meet with any of—“The good
old Stand Bys”—I call them, in these times 
when there is such a mixture of Gentile and
Jew, those who think they are Mormons and
those who know they are not, but manage
to keep a “coat of many colors” which may
be turned and re-turned just to suit conve-
nience and cheat the wear of public opinion.
Brother Tyler and my husband are Patri-
archs also, and we had a blessing meeting
last evening in which we truly rejoiced.
Sister Tyler was full of faith and we are in
hopes she will reap much benefit from the
visit. My heart beats with warmest feelings
of respect and love forthose staunch and true
spirits—the bold Pioneers of this Church.
They are slowly passing away from our
midst, and I feel as I think of it to-day,
what a great privilege it would be to gather
all who are now living, in some comfortable,
commodious place, and have a feast once
more, a feast of fat things, a feast of the
beauties of the Kingdom, a feast of thought
and experience brought forward to cheer
and instruct, ere many last farewels should
be said.
	The people of Beaver are striving to do
as near right as possible, though oftentime
it seems against fearful odds, those who de-
light in troubling the Saints being numer-
ous about here at present.
	With many kind wishes, I am sincerely
yours,					A.	B.	C.


﻿ENVY is a littleness of soul which cannot
see beyond a certain point; and if it occupy
not the whole space, feels itself excluded.


﻿PRACTICAL WOMAN’S RIGHTS.

	We have found a woman’s rights woman
in a practical sense, one who puts into prac-
tice the theories of the strong-minded, with
a strong purpose. We refer to Mrs. Brower
of Ottawa. Left a widow with two small
children on her hands, she at once concluded,
to take care of them and herself. She en-
gaged in selling musical instruments and in
the short space of four years has estab-
lished a business of twenty thousand dollars
a year. She has never allowed a note to go
to protest or failed to pay promptly all her
liabilities. She employs four men with
teams and wagons which she owns, to sell
instruments. She has lately added sewing
machines to her stock. She buys in all cas-
es for cash, and sells nothing on commission.
Her business now affords a profit of $4,000
per year above expenses. Here is a woman
of whom nerveless, worthless, silly simper-
ing women, may, if they will, learn very
valuable lessons in self-reliance and self-
support.—“Earlville Transcript”


[Column 1]	
		﻿OUR NEW YEAR’S STORY.
	With to-day, the holidays for the present
season are ended, but the New Year is only
just begun. We feel impressed to greet our ro-
mance loving friends, as well as those possessed
of more matter-of-fact natures, with something
suitable to the occasion.
	As this is unquestionably an age of immor-
tality, when the world "loves darkness more
than light,” we are aware that the announce-
ment of a highly colored fiction, the work of a
highly imaginative brain, would “take” a hun-
dred per cent more readily than the assertion
that a plain, simple, yet very interesting, “true
story” was about to be told. Yet we venture
upon the latter declaration at the risk of loosing
many attentive readers. the story we propose
to give, is, indeed, strictly true; and to many
of the personal friends of our heroine—who
still lives to grant permission for the publicity
of her story—the incidents to be related will be
familiar.	 
	Sixty-two years ago to day, it was Sunday,
and there was a funeral at Holliston Burk-
shir county, Mas-achusetts. The deceased
was a young man, not thirty years of age at
the time of his death. Yet he was a widower,
the father of a four year old daughter left
motherless when but one month old, and a
bridegroom elect.
	Of all the mourners who had gathered there
 to pay their last respects to one who had borne
 through life a spotless name, moving in a most
respectable circle in society, was a pale faced,
dark eyed girl, the affianced bride of that one
departed.
	Rhoda Richards was twenty-eight years of

[Column 2]
age; less than medium height with a small
trim figure and a face usually expressive of in-
nocent fun and merriment. But upon that
New Year’s day, while the world around her
reveled in gayety and pleasure, she sat like one
from whose heart the last faint ray of sunshine
had gone out forever. 
	She had loved as woman loves but once in a
life-time. She was very soon to have been
wedded to the object of that love, the mortal re-
mains of which now lay before her cold and
dead. For sixteen days and nights she had
watched over him, never allowing herself to be
persuaded from his room, except for an hour or
two at a time, when tired nature could no longer
resist the influence of reasoning friends, and
never entertaining a thought but that he must
and would recover.
	At last, when he had ceased to breathe, she
too sank down silent and senseless, as one
whose heart throbs have been forever stilled.
Yet, as grief seldom kills, she awoke again to 
painful consciousness, and opened her eyes
once more in mortality, to meet the tender,
pitying gaze of her mother who bent anxiously
over her administering restoratives.
	“Do you want to die with him?” was the
solicitous inquiry of that sympathizing moth-
er, in a soft low tone.
	Did she? would she have accompanied him
to his spirit home had such been the gracious
will of heaven? was there ought she could de-
sire or even endure to live for now? Ah! there
still remained one token, one little pledge of
love to bind her to the earth. She remem-
bered the child—his child—and faintly an-
swered her mother “No!”
	The dead mother of little Susan Damon,
(yes, Susan! in those days, be it remembered,
people did not dote on nicknames and pet
names as they do in these) had been to Rhoda
an own, dear cousin.  At the time of her death,
in her last moments she had, daughter like,
bequeathed the babe to her own mother. And
as soon as the services of a wet nurse could
be dispensed with, Susan’s grandmother had
taken her into her home and heart, feeling
that the child was as much her own as its
mother had been. But a few months prior to
the death of the little girl’s father, the grim 
destroyer had entered the home where she was
nestled, to take away its chief head and sup-
port.
	Being thus left a widow with all the cares 
of an almost helpless family, and realizing that
the child’s father had it in his power to pro-
vide for her many comforts which she could
not, Susan's grandmother had sent word to
him that he might have the little one.
	Then it was that Rhoda, as the betrothed of t
Ebenezer Damon, soon to be his wife, had re-
ceived and taken charge of his motherless lit-
tle daughter as her own.
	Now that by the death of her father, the
child was left an orphan indeed, poor Rhoda
felt that for her sake, she would rally and try
to live on.
	And she did live on, day after day and year
after year; though, nothing, seemed to attract
her attention or to divert her thoughts that
did not in some way concern her little Susan—
the precious charge that had been left her by 
her lost lover.
	Five years thus passed away, every day
bringing forth some new tie of affection to
bind the little girl closer to the heart that felt
it would be but an empty shell without her.
	Then came the second great grief to that 
heart which had been already so cruelly
wrecked by fortune's faithless waves.
	Brighter days had dawned upon Susan’s
grandmother. She saw her way more clearly


opening, and came to Rhoda in her father's
home—where she still quietly remained as a
faithful widow—to claim again the bequest of
her dying daughter. Rhoda could not even
plead for the little one, now nine years old, to
remain with her. She knew “Aunt Brigham”
—as she always called her mother’s sister, the
grandmother of her little Susan—had the first
claim on the child. So she saw the one treas-
ure for which she had lived so entirely, borne
away without a murmur. But when it was
over, when the child had gone, a feeling of
such terrible loneliness, such unutterable an-
guish came over her being, that, sinking up-
on her bed she could only gasp for breath
and it seemed as though she could never
speak or stir or look up again.
	But in time, she out lived all her great sor-
rows, or learned to live above them. And to-
day she rejoices that she is in the midst of the
Latter-day Saints, that she heard and received
the Gospel of Jesus Christ; which she remarked
to us but a few evenings since, would likely
never have been, had not these trials fallen to
her lot. She says, although at the time they
were so hard to bear, they were but blessings
in disguise.
	This is why our heroine is still Miss Rhoda
Richards; and why for sixty-two years she has
never once spoken the words to any one, “I
wish you a Hapyy New Year!”
	Now, young ladies, pray do not condemn our
story as being without a moral. It teaches
several good lessons if, as young learners you
are inclined so to receive them.
	It shows that a whole life need not be dolor-
ous because dark shadows sometimes inter-
vene to obscure the sunlight. It also evinces
anew the well established fact, that for our own
good does the ever kind and beneficent Father
permit sorrows to come upon us. And as so
much is said against the bad influence of
“dime novels” and trashy literature, exercised
over the minds of the young who indulge in
such reading, we will point out to them a valu-
able hint which may be taken from "our
story.”
	Instead of seeking to satisfy the cravings of
your young, ardent natures for something
brighter, more lofty and soul stirring than you
find in the dull routine of every day life, by
stupidly conning over the vain imaginations
of some profuse author, look about you and
find heroes and heroines of your own. You
will discover them in those around you, if you
are bright; often the best and noblest in your
dearest friends or nearest relatives. Remem-
ber too, that, without seeking for it, you have
each a romance of your own to live, and pre-
pare to live it well.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January,
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed
instead of at the place of delivery; and
have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the precinct of
this county.


The death of Ezra Cornell, which occured at
his home in Ithica, N. Y., recently, removes
one of the most generous patrons of education
in this country. Mr. Cornell was born in West-
chester, N. Y., in 1807, and was the efficient
coadjutor of Prof. Morse in the latter's early
efforts in the construction of Telegraph lines,
thereby making a good deal of money, which


profitable investments have since increased
many fold. He had been somewhat in politi-
cal life, having served in both branches of the
New York Legislature, but is best known, and
will be longest remembered, as the generous
patron of the University that bears his name,
to which he has given in all about one million
dollars. This institution, which admits young
women to equal privileges in instruction, will
be of inestimable value to American woman-
hood.


THE Philadelphia Press closes an article on
the meeting of Congress with the following
correct remarks: "There is one way in which
Congress can aid in restoring activity to in-
dustry and business. Public opinion at present
is undoubtedly in favor of those great improve-
ments which aid in the development of the re-
sources of the country, open new regions to
settlement, and give employment to thousands
of men in numerous branches of industry, thus
quickening the whole current of trade receiving
national aid. It is clearly a duty to assist
works of this character. Were the two great
enterprises which were arrested by the panic,
and which are now at a stand still, to be again
started, the effect would be immediately and
immensely favored."


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE ANNUAL conference of the Weber stake
of Zion was held recently at Ogden.
	AMONG THE events of the Holidays
are recorded several cases of drunkenness,
theft, and other disturbances of a similar na-
ture which have transpired in this city. "It
was not always so," but, alas! it is to-day.
	THE OLD time honored custom of "Wish a
merry Christmas and a Happy New Year" has
been well considered by many of the "Well-to-
do" in this city this season, by suiting their ac-
tions, to the words, they have caused much re-
joicing among their less favored friends.
	PRESIDENT GRANT has nominated Samuel
B. Axtell, of California, for Governor of Utah;
the nomination has been confirmed, and George
A. Black is re-nominated and re-confirmed to
the Secretaryship. The people need not antici-
pate any worse governmental jurisdiction than
they have been accustomed to, we think; and
they may be favored with something bet-
ter.


[Column 1]
	NOT FEMALE, BUT WOMAN.

	More than two years ago, the question
of the propriety or impropriety of the use
of the word Female, in connection with the
name of the Relief Society was argued
here; and as it was decided to be, not only
unnecessary but also inappropriate, it was
unanimously dropped by the Relief Socie-
ties of this Territory.  That some intelli-
gent women in other localities hold corres-
ponding opinions, is shown by the follow-
ing which appeared in a late number of the
"Woman's Journal."--Ed. W. E.
	"I wish to avail myself of the first oppor-
tunity to protest, through your columns,
against the frequent and unpardonable use,
even among Suffragists, of the word "fe-
male," to designate Woman.
	All over the country we find schools for
young women, bearing the chartered names
of "female" colleges or seminaries, and the
scholarly clergyman, in his announcements
of "female" colleges or seminaries, and the
scholarly clergyman, in his announcements
of "female" prayer meetings and the like,
is a favorite example for the unlettered
boor, who talks sneeringly of the 

[Column 2]
"females,"
who wish to vote and make themselves
equal to men.
	Recently I was looking over a newspaper,
which advocates the temperance cause and
favors Woman Suffrage, and noticed an item
in reference to the lecture course of
the town where the paper is published.
The editor deprecated the fact that no "fe-
male" had a place among the lecturers, and
urged that Mrs. Livermore be employed.
	If the lecture course had been composed
soley of women, and the editor had spoken
of employing some "male," George William
Curtis for instance, it would have been con-
sidered a breech of good taste. But the old
harem idea of women, as mere human ani-
mals, has so long pervaded society, that com-
paratively few feel the impropriety of thus
designating women. "Early as it was, I
met several 'females' upon the street," says
a gentleman on returning from his morning
walk, and were it not for the firm establish-
ment of this unpardonable American vul-
garism, one might suppose that old brindle,
a few motherly hens, and the favorite
pussy, had been indulging in a morning
stroll.
	I have been surprised at the frequent use
of this word in the columns of so able a
paper as the Independent. During the past
season many excellent editorials were pre-
sented in favor of Woman Suffrage, but the
authors almost invariably wrote "female"
Suffrage. The highly cultivated Goldwin
Smith also uses the term, and it fully ac-
cords with his estimate of our sex. But
the contributors of the Independent and
Woman's Journal surely ought to set a bet-
ter example to the rest of the world.
	The Bible is a model in this respect, the
word female being seldom used, and then
when no other word could be used in its
place.
	Some men go to the other extreme, and
speak of all women as "ladies," which is
often exceedingly ludicrous. While visit-
ing the Ohio penitentiary, several years ago,
a college president said, as our party was
about leaving, after attending chapel ser-
vice where nearly a thousand men were
seated in convicts' uniform:
	"We haven't seen any of their ladies yet,
but I suppose there are some here.
	I promptly responded:
	"There are doubtless a few women who
are prisoners, certainly no ladies."
	Last spring a zealous temperance man in-
quired my opinion of the "lady movement."
I was puzzled to know what he meant till
he added something about the temperance
work, and then I remarked: "Oh! you mean
the Woman's Crusade."
	It is quite fashionable for a traveler to
register himself and wife as "Mr. John
Smith and lady;" but "Mr. and Mrs. John
Smith" is certainly preferable in every re-
spect. In some parts of the country it seems
to be customary for a man to introduce his
wife as "my lady;" but how much more
sensible to say "my wife" or "Mrs. So and
so," which gives no opportunity for mis-
construction.
	While there are many occasions where it
seems more appropriate and polite to say
"lady" instead of "woman," yet the ten-
dency of the age is to make the latter more
popular.  At all events the term "female,"
so generally applied to the members of our
sex, should be regarded by all persons of
culture and refinement as an unpardonable
vulgarism.		JANE O. DEFOREST.
	Norwalk, Ohio.


"A SPLENDID ear but a very poor voice,"
as the organ-grinder said of the donkey.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WINTER WHEAT.

The grain was sown on the far hillside,
	And the autumn sun looked kindly down,
Blessing the sower and blessing the grain,
	And blessing the earth rich and brown.
And Robbie said, "In the mold below,
God is making the grain to grow."

The leaves grew bright on the forest trees,
	And turned to the mother's breast again,
And a mist came out of the clear, far skies,
	Clothing with silver the field of grain.
But Robbie trusted, "The frost below,
God is making the grain to grow."

The wind came whistling out of the North,
	And froze the earth like a solid wall,
While winter, waving his crystal wand,
	Commanded the white-winged snows to fall.
Then Robbie doubted, "Under the snow,
How can He make the grain to grow?"

The robins piped in the forest trees,
	The small stream fretted its banks between,
And springtime airs, and sunshine played,
	Over the hillside fresh and green.
And Robbie shouted, "The brook's aflow,
And God is making the grain to grow!"

Thus sowing in faith of the better time,
	We smile at the sunshine and the rain,
But shrink and tremble when storms are loud,
	And count our sowing as all in vain.
Ah, doubting hearts, while ye beat so low,
God is making the grain to grow.
		LUCY L. STOUT, in "Woman's Journal."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Benzine and common clay will clean marble.
	Castor oil is an excellent thing to soften leath-
er.
	Lemon Jelly.—Two cups of sugar; yolks of
three eggs; juice of two lemons. Cook till thick
ened by setting in boiling water, then add the well-
beaten whites of three eggs; spread between the
layers of the cake, and trim off the rough edges.
	Wafer.—One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of
butter, a pinch of salt; mix with milk into a dough,
then roll out in very thin circles. Bake in pans,
quickly. One quart of flour makes twenty-five 
wafers.
	Dandruff.—some one asks, what will remove
and prevent dandruff from coming in a lady's head?
Take a little borax added to a pint of rain water,
and wash the head occasionally with it. Add a 
little borax or cooking soda to rain water when
you wash your hair brushes. It cleanses them
nicely.
	An excellent cement, we read, may be made
from rice flour. It is only necessary to mix the
rice flour intimately with cold water and gently
simmer it over a fire, when it readily forms a deli-
cate and durable cement. When made of the con-
sistency of plaster, clay models, busts, bas relievos,
etc., may be formed from it.
	Paste that will Stick.—Take 4 pounds of fine
wheat flour and make a batter with cold water;
take out all lumps, then add boiling water till you
have almost a pailful. This is a good paper-
hanger's paste. To make it stick to painted walls,
add 1 ounce of finely pulverized resin for each gal-
lon of paste, and boil it; when too thick, add more
water.
	Sugar for Preserving.—Good brown sugar is the
sweetest, especially much sweeter than the so-
called granulated white sugar which contains much
water of crystalization; often a certain amount of
free moisture of brown sugar is due to syrup of
molasses more than water. The finely pow-
dered white sugar made from loaf sugar, is much
sweeter than the granulated white sugar, and goes
almost as far in sweetening as the brown qualities
do. Loaf sugar is the best.
	Erasive Soap.—Here is an excellent recipe for
making genuine crasive soap that will remove
grease and stain from clothing: Two pounds of 
good Castile soap, half a pound of carbonate of


potash, disolved in half a pint of hot water.
Cut the soap with the potash until it is thick
enough to mould in cakes; also add alcohol, half
an ounce; camphor, half an ounce, hartshorn, half an
ounce; color with half an ounce of pulverized 
charcoal.
	Excellent Glue.—A foreign chemist asserts that
an excellent glue may be prepared as follows:—
Four parts, by weight, of glue are soaked for sev-
eral hours in fifteen parts of water, and then slowly
warmed until a perfectly clear solution is formed.
This solution is then diluted with sixty-five parts
of boiling water, and thoroughly stirred. In the
meantime thirty parts of starch are stirred into
200 parts of cold water, so as to form a thin, milky
liquid, free from lumps. Into this is poured the
solution of glue, stirring continually and heating.
When cold, ten drops of carbolic acid are added.
The paste made in this way is said to possess ex-
traordinary adhesive power, joining leather, paper,
pasteboard, &c. By keeping it in closed vessels,
so that the water cannot evaporate, it may be pre-
served for years. Where no great strength is de-
sired, ordinary flour or starch paste is used, a little
carbolic acid being added to prevent souring.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	To Cure Chilbains.—Pour boiling wa-
ter over one pint of wood ashes; when cool
enough immerse the feet; let them remain
about half an hour.—Household.
	Remedy for Scarlet Fever.—Take an
onion and cut it in half; cut out a portion of
the center, and into the cavity put a spoon-
ful of saffron; put the pieces together, then
wrap them up in a cloth and bake them in
an oven until the onion is cooked so that the
juice will run freely; squeeze out all the
juice, and give the patient a teaspoonful, at
the same time rubbing the chest and throat
with goose grease or rancid bacon, if there
is any cough or soreness in the throat. In a
short time the fever will break out in an
eruption all over the body. All that is nec-
essary is to keep the patient warm and pro-
tected from draughts, and the recovery is
said to be certain.
	ALCOHOL AS A REMEDY FOR BURNS.--
Alcohol, recommended by Sydenham, has
lately been employed by Leviseur, particu-
larly with children, as the most rapid and
effective means of alleviating the pain of
burns. The affected part is either simply
covered loosely with an alcoholic compress,
or is bathed with alcohol, when the pain in-
stantly disappears, but returns when the ap-
plication ceases. It must, therefore, be con-
tinued for from one to two hours, and then
be repeated at longer intervals, until the
reddened epidermis is bleached and shriv-
elled, or until any blisters that may have
formed have opened and discharged, which
will take place in from six to twelve hours.
Care should be taken, especially where the
surface to be treated is large, that the vapor
of the alcohol does not affect the patient.
	FOR BOILS—A SURE CURE.—Dr. Simon, a
physician of Loraine, states that, as soon as
the culminating point of a boil makes its ap-
pearance, he puts in a saucer a thimbleful of
camphorated alcohol, and, dipping the ends
of his middle fingers into the liquid, rubs
the enflamed surface, especially the middle
portion, repeating the operation eight or ten
times, continuing the rubbing at each time
for about half a minute. He then allows
the surface to dry, placing a slight coating of
camphorated olive oil over the affected sur-
face. He states that one such application in
almost all such cases causes boils to dry up
and disappear. The application should be
made at morning, noon, and in the evening
[Column 2]
He avers that the same treatment will cure
witlows, and all injuries of tips of fingers.
As soon as pain and redness appear, the fin-
ger should be soaked for ten minutes in
camphorated sweet oil. The relief is said to
be immediate, and three applications are 
generally enough to effect a cure.
	REMEDY FOR POISON BY IVY.—It seems
to me that I read all kinds of cures for ivy
poison except the right one. I have always
endeavored to keep it before the public, but
have failed. It is to take sugar of lead (a
bit the size of a hazelnut,) in half a teacup of
sweet milk or warm water. Apply as warm
as can be borne easily with a soft, linty piece
of linen rag. Three or four applications are
sufficient to affect a cure. If the poison is
on the face and nearing the eyes or mouth,
this astringent wash may be constantly ap-
plied.
	It is a marvellous cure, and by watching
closely one can see the fevered blisters turn
from white to yellow during the application.
This remedy for ivy should prevent a great
deal of suffering. It is well where a mem-
ber of a family is easily poisoned to keep su-
gar of lead in the house all the time. Let it
be labelled and kept where it can be found
the moment it is wanted. Keep it well
wrapped up that it may not lose its strength.
—Cor. Ohio Farmer.


GREATNESS AND GOODNESS.

	Take goodness, with the average intel-
lectual power, and compare it with the
mere greatness of intellect and social stand-
ing, and it is far the nobler quality; and if
God should offer me one of them, I would
not hesitate which to choose. No, the great-
est intellect which God ever bestowed I
would not touch, were I bid to choose be-
tween that and the goodness of an average
woman; I would scorn it and say: Give it
to Lucifer; give me the better gift, When
I say goodness is greater than greatness, I
mean to say it gives a deeper and serener
joy in the private heart, joins men more
tenderly to one another and more earnestly
to God.  I honor intellect, reason and un-
derstanding; I wish we took ten times
more pains to cultivate them than we do. I
honor greatness of mind—great reason,
which intuitively sees truths, great laws,
and the like; great understanding, which
learns special laws and works in details; the
understanding that masters things for use
and beauty; that can marshal millions of
men into an organization that shall last for
centuries. I bow reverently before the
men of genius and sit gladly at their feet.
But the man who sees justice and does it,
who knows love and loves it, who has a great
faith and trusts in God, let him have a mind
quite inferior and culture quite a little, I
must yet honor and reverence that man far
more than he who has the greatest power
of intellect. I know that knowledge is
power, and reverence it; but justice is a
higher power, and love is a manlier power,
and religion is a diviner power; each great-
er than the migtiest mind.—Theodore  Par-
ker.


To be truly noble is not so hard as many
may imagine. It does not require the ac-
complishment of some great act, the win-
ning of world-wide fame or even a fierce
struggle with some huge monster. It is
but to love virtue and the truth and to keep
them as constant companions. The soul
thus governed is noble and god-like though
known but to God; and nothing else can
make it so, though the whole world should
speak its applause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS.

	IF the Mormon women read the EXPO-
NENT and live up to its moral and intellect-
ual teachings, they will never discredit the
political rights they enjoy.—"Stockton
Leader."
	THE quaintest thing of late in baby-talk
—a little girl seeing a dog scratching to be
let in at an opposite door promptly knocked
at the window and called out: "Ing e bell,
doggy; ing e bell."
	HOW often are you irresistibly drawn to-
ward a plain, unassuming woman, whose
soft tongue renders her attractive. In the so-
cial circle how pleasant it is to hear a woman
talk in that low key that always character-
izes a true lady. In the sanctuary of home
how such a voice soothes the fretful child
and cheers the weary husband.—Lamb.
	THERE is a dog belonging to a Concord
(N.H.) fire company which always takes it
upon herself to spread a fire alarm, and 
makes a great ado about it. When a fire
broke out in the village, a few days ago,
she rushed to a sleeping fireman and waked
him by seizing him by the throat. She then
went to the house of another fireman, and,
having called him out by her loud barking,
fastened upon his clothes and tried to have
him expedite his movements.
	A CYNICAL essayist remarks as one of the
oddist points of difference between man
and woman, that woman has no first love.
The long alphabet of her affections is with-
out any distinct end or beginning. She
mounts her insensible graduation from dolls
and kittens and brothers to the zenith of 
passion, to descend by the insensible gradu-
ations from the zenith of passion, through
pet brothers and tabby cats. There is no
such event as a first kiss forms in a boy's
life to mark for woman the transition from
girl-hood to the sudden maturity of passion;
she has been kissing and purring and fond-
ling and petting from her cradle. And she
will pet and fondle and purr and kiss to her
grave.
	A BONE FOR BABY.—Almost every one
who ever had a bright dog can tell curious
stories about dog behavior. A gentleman
in Erie, Pa., furnishes the "Observer" with 
this funny anecdote: Mrs. J. has for some
time past been the owner of a fine Esqui-
maux dog. A few weeks ago Mrs. J. be-
came the mother of a beautiful little girl, of
whom the dog at first sight was very jeal-
ous. His better nature however, soon as-
serted itself, and he became very fond of
the child. A few months ago baby was cry-
ing loud and long. Doggicame up stairs and
in evident distress of spirits, whined in an-
swer to the childs cry; but, finally, as if a
sudden thought had startled him, trotted
down stairs. He presently returned with a
bone, well picked of course, in his mouth,
which, standing on his hind legs he gravely
presented to the baby.
	BOIL IT DOWN.—Blessed is the writer who
can boil it down. The man who knows so 
well what he wants to say that he can come
to it in a few short picturesque sentences,
is the readable and quotable journalist of
these days. People cannot wait with the
patience they used to have, to get at the
pith of things. The railroad has educated 
them out of all patience with slowness.
The telegraph has completed that education,
and at the same time incapaciated them for
the endurance of words. When we have
to pay a fixed price—so many cents for a
word—for every word we employ to express

[Column 2]
our meaning, we are apt to husk the sen-
tence down to the kernel, and to value the
art of expressing a thought with the husks
off. We want the naked idea. Words are
nothing. Language would be abolished if
there were anything briefer to take its place.
But, since it can not be abolished, boil it
down.


WOMAN'S RECORD
	Mrs. E. B. C. Washburn has given $100
to the Maine Industrial School for girls.

	MISS Harriet Hosmer is making at her
own expense a statue of "Emancipation"
for Fairmount Park.

	MRS. A. J. Dunniway of Portland, Oregon,
has recently given a successful course of lec-
tures in Walla Walla, Washington Terri-
tory.

	MADAME Theirs, who is over seventy
years old, is said to wear jaunty little hats
that would be youthful for a woman of
thirty.

	MMR. Jenny Lind Goldschmidt, and her
husband, will permanently reside in Weis-
baden, having accepted the posts of leading
professors at the Rhenish Academy of Mu-
sic.

	"IDA and Gabrielle, the Greeley sisters,
occasionally make their appearance in public
this season, for the first time since the death
of their illustrious father nearly two years
ago.

	MISS McHenry, of St. Stephen's Church,
Philadelphia, sets a noble example to women
who wish to be of real use in the world.
She has raised $200,000 for three church
homes, which care for 600 children.

	MISS Laura White, the famous mathema-
tician, who solved the problem so long in-
soluble by students, is now studying archi-
tecture and art. She graduated from Michi-
gan University, last summer, with high
honors.

	AN Exchange says: Mrs. President Grant
has been approached by the Woman's Suf-
frage Association, Woman's Congress, Wo-
man's Dress Reform Society, etc., again, and
her answer is: "I am very domestic myself
and have no inclination to change my mode
of living. I was a favored daughter, and
am an indulged wife. Mr. Grant says I have
my rights and his too!"

	ADELINE Cooper has assumed a self-im-
posed mission in Westminister, England.
Her problem is now to reclaim the intem-
perate. Her schemes to win men from
drink, her trouble in getting up a temper-
ance club, her labors among a humble class
of costermongers, her institution of a penny-
bank, her exertions in establishing a model
lodging-house, all testitfy to her philanthro-
py.

	PATTI, now known as Madame Caux,
gives freely where she takes a fancy. She
allows one young American girl $600 a year
to pursue her musical studies. She and her
husband live very happily together. The
marquis goes to the opera every night when
she sings, sits down in a retired corner, and
never takes his lorgnette off his wife while
she is on the stage. If there is anything in
her singing or acting which does not please
him, he tells her so when he goes behind
the scenes, and she does better next time.
She knows very well that what her marquis
tells her is for her good, while a critic might
suggest or cavil out of some unfriendly
feeling.


﻿DRAWING IN SCHOOLS.

	No one branch of study pursued in our
schools has greater claims than drawing as
far as the development of the faculties are
concerned, and no other one enters so
largely into all the practical concerns of life.
Among the many important reasons why
drawing should be introduced into all our
schools, we would enumerate the follow-
ing.
	First. It developes the powers of obser-
vation and trains the eye and hand. To
draw either from patterns or from Nature
requires accurate observation, and habits
are formed that lead to the careful exami-
nation of all objects, and to the perfect obe-
dience of the hand to the mandates of the
will. Drawing also largely tends to the de
velopment of the judgment concerning the
relations of objects; and it can be made an
important instrument in the development
and control of the imagination.
	Second. Through drawing, a great inter-
est in study may be excited. Little chil-
dren are always pleased with representing
the rude outlines of familiar objects, and
children of larger growth with more per-
fect work. The severest studies of the
school-room may be relieved by drawing
exercises, without in any way arresting the
process of continuous mental development.
Drawing also may be made a recreation
which will supersede those of a doubtful
moral character.


SELFISHNESS.—Live for some purpose in
the world. Always act your part well.
Conduct yourself so you shall be missed
with sorrow when you are gone. Multi-
tudes of our species are living in such a 
manner that they are not likely to be re-
membered after their disapperarance. They
leave behind them scarcely any traces of
their existence, and are forgotton almost as
though they had never been. They are,
while they live, like some pebble lying un-
observed among a million on the shore; and
when they die they are like the same peb-
ble cast into the sea, which just ruffles t
surface, sinks, and is forgotten, without be-
ing missed from the beach. They are nei-
ther regretted by the rich, wanted by the
poor, nor celebrated by the learned. Who
has been the better for their life? Whose
tears have they dried up? Whose wants
supplied?  Whose misery have they
healed? Who would unbar the gate of life
to readmit them to existence? What face
would greet them back again to our world
with a smile? Wretched unproductive
mode of existence! Selfishness is its own
curse; it is a starving vice. The man who
does no good gets none. He is like the
heath in the desert, neither yielding fruit
nor seeing when good cometh, a stunted,
dwarfish, miserable shrub.


To wipe all tears from off all faces is a
task too hard for mortals; but to alleviate
misfortunes is within the most limited pow-
er.
	A WEST Newbury (Mass.) farmer before
beginning to pick his apples went to George-
town and bought 250 barrels, thinking that
200 would contain his apples and fifty his
crop of onions. He went at his trees and
filled all his barrels with apples, bought an-
other hundred in Georgetown and filled
them, bought another hundred in Newbury-
port and filled them, and recently he was in
town to buy a hundred barrels more. He
told a friend that where he expected three
barrels on a tree he picked nearly seven.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.
	WOMEN do not talk more than men; they
are listened to more, that's all.
	IT is impossible to have the last word with
a chemist, because he always has a "retort."
	WE are told nothing was made in vain;
but how about a fashionable girl? Isn't she
maiden vain.
	WHEN were there only three vowels in
the alphabet? Before you and I were
thought of.
	SOME of the people of Leavenworth, Kan-
sas, are so lazy that they write the name o
the place, "11 worth"
	ONE of the old settlers of the Isles of
Shoals seeing the name of Psyche on the
hull of a yacht the other day, spelled it out
slowly, and then exclaimed, "Well, if that
ain't the durndest way to spell fish!"
	SENTIMENTAL arithmetic calculates thus:
Two glances make one look; two looks make
one sigh; four sighs make one waltz; three
waltzes make one palpitation; two palpita-
tions make one call; two calls make one at-
tention; two attentions make one fool (some-
times two); two fools make one flirtation;
one flirtation plus two bouquets equal to one
engagement, equal to one marriage.
	WHEN Mr. Wilberforce, the great anti-
slavery advocate, was once a candidate for
Parliamentary honors, his sister, an amiable
and witty young lady, offered the compli-
ment of a new gown to each of the wives of
those freeman who voted for her brother, on
which she was saluted with the cry of "Miss
Wilberforce forever!" when she pleasantly
observed, "I thank you, gentlemen, but I
cannot agree with you, for I really do not
wish to be Miss Wilberforce forever."
	A MINISTER was once preaching about
heaven, and, to show the absurdity of Swed-
enborg's ideas, drew a graphic picture of
the Swedengorgian heaven, with its beauti-
ful fields, fine horses, cows and pretty wo-
men, when, in the midst of his glowing de-
scription, one of the sisters went into rap-
tures, and shouted, "Glory, glory, glory!"
This so disconcerted the preacher that he
paused, when an elder cried out to the
shouter: "Hold on there, sister! you're
shouting over the wrong heaven!"
	IN Cooperstown they tell a story of an
English joker who once visited Fenimore
Cooper. One day, while Mr. Cooper was
dining with the Englishman, he poured out
some native wine—wine from grapes raised
in his own garden. Taking up a glass, and
looking through it with pride, Cooper re-
marked: Now Mr. Stebbens, I call this good,
honest wine. Yes, Mr. Cooper, I agree with
you. It is honest wine—poor but honest.
Mr. Cooper went on telling his "Injun" sto-
ries.
	SEVERAL years ago, when Miss Anna
Dickinson was about to lecture in a Western
town, the gentleman who was to introduce
her to the audience asked what was her sub-
ject, and she replied, "Jeanne d'Arc." He
rose with great gravity and remarked, "La-
dies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure of
presenting to you Miss Anna Dickinson,
who will be remembered as the ardent friend
of the late lamented Lincoln, and who will
instruct you this evening in regard to that
other illustrious man and noble patriot, John
Dark."
	"LANDLORD," said a transient guest at a
cross-road tavern, as he drew near the end
of his dinner, "won't you give me a little

[Column 2]
more pork to eat with this potato?" A lit-
tle later he said: "There was more pork
than I wanted; let me trouble you for a little
more poptato to eat with the pork." A short
time after: "Well, I declare, I've got some
more potato left, and it seems a pity to
leave it—just a small piece of pork, if you
please." It ran on so for some time. At
length the landlord stopped short in front of
his guest and remarked: "Look here, stran-
ger, 'tain't no use. I'm willing to do any-
thing in reason to make that pork and pota-
to come out even, but I've made up my
mind, the way you eat, it can't be did.
You're bound to lap over one or the other
every time. Now, just make up your mind
which you'd rather leave, and leave it and
quit. I've got enough pork and potatoes,
but if you keep on you'll burst."


FLOWERS.
	WHAT you keep by you, you can change
or mend, but words once spoken you can
never recall.
	HOW many troubles might mankind be
spared if they would only stop to hear each
others explanations.
	THE discovery of what is true, and the
practice of what is good are the two most
important objects of life.
	MAN isnaturally fond of activity, yet he
has persuaded himself that he loves noth-
ing so much as taking his ease.
	HE who studies for a good purpose, to
him his study becomes a blessing; to him
who does not, it grows a poison.
	WHEN we see a young man who spends
all he earns we are inclined to suspect that
he does not earn all he spends.
	HE who goes too near sin to-day, may fall
into it to-morrow. Prudence will not al-
ways venture to the brink of innocence.
	SEARCH thine own heart! Within thee
there is a fountain of good, which will al-
ways flow, provided thou diggest for it.
	It is impossible for any of us to please
every one. But if we were all inclined to
make as much sunshine for each other as
the kind and beneficent Father has given
us all power to do, there need be no dark-
ness of long duration in any heart.


Lewenboeck tells us of an insect seen
with the microscope, of which twenty-sev-
en millions only equal a mite. Insects of
various kinds may be seen in the cavities
of a grain of sand. Mold is a forest of beau-
tiful trees, with the branches, leaves and
fruit. Butterflies are fully feathered.
Hairs are hollow tubes. The surface of our
body is covered with scales like a fish; a
single grain of sand would cover one hun-
dred and fifty of these scales and yet a scale
covers five hundred pores. Through these
narrow openings the sweat forces itself, like
water through a seive. The mites make
five hundred steps a second. Each drop of
stagnant water contains a world of animated
beings, swimming with as much liberty as
whales in the sea. Each leaf has a colony
of insects grazing on it like cows in a mea-
dow.


It is estimated that the French Governm-
ment loses $60,000 a year for its revenue in
one department by the second use of stamp-
ed paper, from which the writing made
when the stamped paper was bought is wash-
ed by chemical processes. It has now bought
the secret of an indelible ink.


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,

				GO TO

			MRS. C. E. DYE'S
			19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES, MISSES’ & CHILDREN’S HATS & BONNETS
			Of the Latest Style
	Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.
_________________________________________
			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF
		CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND 
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.
					—
	Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
					—
			Large Assortment of
	CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
					—
		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
					—
				H.E. PHELPS, 
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
____________________________________________
				H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
			Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St.to his three
				storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.
________________________________________________
H. WALLACE
					—
	Has the best, large-t and purest stock of confec-
					—
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
_________________________________________________
				CLUB RATES.
	Deternined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names scnt in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
screber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year. 
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the Ex-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.				

Vol. 3.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1875		No. 16


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE REAL winter in this valley did not
set in until January; and now the question
arises, will it stretch out till the latter end
of May?
	THE DIABOLICAL practice of lynching, or
hanging men upon suspicion of crime, was
last fall perpetrated upon a son of ex-Gover-
nor Ford of Illinois. A friend of the EXPO-
NENT sends us an account of the affair, taken
from the Iowa “State Journal,” the particu-
lars of which, were recently published in
the daily papers of Utah. We are not now
prepared to comment on the subject, and
have not space for details.


[Column 1]
	FOR THE YOUNG LADIES.
BY MARY STUART, OF THE RICHMOND
RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION.

	In attempting to speak in behalf of our
Young Ladies' Society, I will endeavor to
portray the feelings of all. Should I, per-
chance, say aught they can not approve, I
trust it will be overlooked.
	My subject shall be what we have been in
the past and what we wish to be in the fu-
ture.
	Let memory carry us back say five or ten
years, or as long as we can remember, and
it will readily be seen how often we have
missed the mark. How and for what has
been spent, a great portion of our past life.
We have been too careless, too idle, too in-
different in regard to everything that might
have proved a lasting benefit had we shown
ourselves more attentive. In stolid igno-
rance of the great and important duties as-
signed us by the Author of our existence,
we have let pass the months and years with- 
out even a struggle to gain the knowledge
now so much coveted.
	How many hours have been wasted. How
many days allowed to sink into oblivion, in
which much might have been added to our
store of information. As it is, it can only
be said they are lost days, lost hours to us,
for in them no good was accomplished. Bet-
ter far better that we had never lived them
than to have to say God gave us time to
learn but we would not and squandered it
not thinking nor caring why he gave that
precious time. Can it not be understood
that we will be held accountable for this
useless waste of life?
	In the future, we wish to become great,
good and noble. Not to gain the admiration
of worldly-minded beings, but of God who
never respects the unworthy. The aim is
to spread sunshine and not shade. To help
those who are in need, not merely to pity
them. To promote the welfare of all man-
kind, with disinterested and truly unselfish
motives, thus securing happiness for our-
selves while making others happy.
	Many do not seem to understand the good
to be derived from meeting together and ex-
changing ideas with each other. Nor do
they comprehend retrenchment in its true
sense, and it may be well to say a few words
on this subject. We are organized in a re-
trenchment or mutual improvement society,
it matters not by which we are called. Such

[Column 2]
ested, if it is properly carried on. We do
a society cannot fail to benefit those inter-
not wish to be too strict all at once, lest we
frighten our young friends away at the on-
set. And it is our belief that when fully
entered into, the spirit of our high and holy
calling as daughters of a Heavenly Parent,
the wisdom we then possess will teach us
what to wear and how to wear it. By Heav-
en-born authority we have been forbidden
to follow the foolish and downward leading
fashions of Babylon, and it is according to
our professions to appear in neat and plain
attire. Still we are equally obliged to for-
sake many other things, to give envy and
avarice no place in our hearts, shun every
appearance of evil and not barter our souls
for the fading things of life, but cling to the
principles of right and justice. Thus ren-
dering ourselves worthy the society of the
good on earth, and to dwell with God and
His angels in the world to come.


[Column 1]
		﻿WOMAN'S RECORD
	CHARLOTTE Cushman has cancelled her
San Francisco engagement.
	MISS Carrie Clark, daughter of Henry S.
Clark, lately deceased, has been appointed
express agent in Northampton, Mass.
	THE Empress of Prussia wore in Paris a
crimson velvet cloak lined with rare Russian
sable, and worth twenty thousand dollars.
	Miss Wilson recently realized $6,400 by a
performance in St. Petersburg for the bene-
fit of some families who were made, home-
less by a fire.
	MRS. Annie Mixsell of Orange, N. J., has
accepted an engagement as soprano in Dr.
Conkling's choir, New York, at a salary of
$1,000 per annum.
	MRS. Elizabeth Haldeman, mother of W.
N. Haldeman, one of the proprietors of the
Courier-Journal, died at Louisville, Dec. 27,
in her 84th year.
	THE real name of "Susan Coolidge," a
pleasant Eastern writer for children's peru-
sal, is Miss Sarah C. Woolsey, and she is a
niece of ex-President Woolsey, of Yale Col-
lege.
	MRS. Rousby, a young woman even more
beautiful and more given to wardrobes and
jewelry than Mrs, Scott-Sidons or Adelaide
Neilson, has arrived from England to star it
on the American stage.
	MISS Nancy Monell, of St. Johns, gradua-
ted at a medical institute in New York, and
is now Superintendent of a large hospital at
Lucknow, India, at a salary of $5,000 per
year, and all expenses paid.
	MISS Lipscombe has just been appointed
by the English Registrar-General to the office
of Registrar in one of the sub-districts at
Worcester. This is the first time this office
has been given to a woman in England.
	MRS. Senator Schurz, a woman who is
better informed, and, therefore, more en-
thusiastic on this subject than almost any
person in this country, ardently desires to
be enfranchised. She believes it criminal
in men to refuse it.

[Column 2]
	MRS. D. Chamberlain, an old resident of
Westborough, Mass., was one of the original
band of missionaries that went to the Hawa-
iian Islands fifty-five years ago, when the in-
habitants were savages. Mrs. Chamberlain
is in her eighty-eighth year, and she retains
her mental faculties to a remarkable degree.
She speaks the Hawaiian tongue fluently.
An inivtation to visit Westborough has been
extended to the King Kalakaua to meet this
aged lady.
	MARIE Antoinette was the originator of
the "claque" at Paris. On the occasion of the
first performance of "Alceste," by Gluck,
who was highly esteemed by the queen,
Marie Antoinette, in order to secure the suc-
cess of the opera, distributed a large num-
ber of courtiers all over the theater among
the public, with the order to applaud in pro-
per places. The managers of the opera
house found this mode of securing success
very practicable, and organized a duly paid
band of claques for the purpose.	MISS Jennie Worthington of New Orleans,
principal of the High School, protested ear-
nestly against the expulsion of her colored
scholars. She declared her inability to face
her scholars and do so mean a thing, saying,
"How can I order that bright-eyed little fel-
low never to return to this school?" pointing
to an intelligent looking boy of twelve years
of age, who was one of her smartest and
best scholars. The superintendent relieved
her of the embarrassment. The little fel-
low, with tears in his eyes, begged to re-
main. Again and again he walked back to
his seat, hugged his books tightly, and wept
as if his little heart would break.


TIME THE GREAT HEALER.

	Time heals all griefs, even the bitterest,
and it is well that it should be so. A long-
indulged sorrow for the dead, or any other
hopeless loss, would deaden our sympathies
for those still left, and thus make a sinful
apathy steal over the soul, absorbing all its
powers, and causing the many blessings of
life to be felt as curses. As the bosom of
earth blooms again and again, having buried
out of sight the dead leaves of autumn, and
loosed the frosty bands of winter, so does
the heart—in spite of all that melancholy
poets write—feel many renewed springs and
summers. It is a beautiful and blessed world
we live in, and, while life lasts, to lose the
enjoyment of it is a sin.


ALMOST AN ENOCH ARDEN.—A lady who
resides upon Central street, and who is well
known in that section, narrowly escaped
having two husbands to care for last night.
She had grown tired of being alone in the
world and had accepted the proposal of a
steady mechanic to become his wife. The
wedding was appointed last evening, friends
were invited and a clergyman secured, and
the ceremony was about to commence, when
the door opened and in walked a former
husband of the lady, who years ago disap-
peared from the knowledge of his young
wife, and has since been "sailing the wide
seas over" in search of her. The wedding
was postponed.—Mirror, 20th.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


RESPONSIVE.
	Respectfully to Lu Dalton.
			(Exponent, Dec. 15th, 1874.)
That wealth is worth more for the earning,
	And rubies more precious and rare
When counting the cost of the winning—
	Of this I am fully aware.
And also that men in old Babylon
	Are guilty of luring their prey,
And then with scorn and derision
	Will ruthlessly cast it away.
But that men who are holding the Priesthood,
	Pretending its teachings to heed,
To find these so utterly hearteless,
	Would be a sad lesson indeed!
I fondly had hoped for a dawning
	Of innocence, happy and bright,
When man in his strength and his wisdom
	Would strive to be guided by right.
Oh! man is thine heart then so fickle!
	So prone this grand error to make,
As to spurn a true heart's devotion
	And follow a myth in its wake! 
Canst.thou value but dearly brought treasures?
	Is Heaven but craved through the fall?
If this is thy standard of action
	I scarcely dare trust thee at all?
Yet still, (must I own it?) there lingers
	Far down in the depths of my heart,
An ideal man true and noble,
	Who scorneth the recreant's part.
A man who is shield and protector,
	A counselor, monitor, friend,
Who loveth a Woman as Woman,
	And not as a means to an end.
Dec. 27th, 1874.					Queery.


R. S. REPORTS

	On the 7th inst. the Relief Society of the
Eighth War held their annual meeting—
which should, properly have been held on
the 23rd of December, but was postponed
on account of sickness among the officers.
	There were present besides the usual at-
tendance of members of the Society, Bp.
Sheets and Counselor Brockbank; also Sis-
ters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne, Z. D. Young,
P. Woodruff, and L. Greene Richards. Af-
ter the usual preliminaries of opening and
the reading of the annual reports—which
were very satisfactory—the meeting was ad-
dressed by each one of the above named
bretheren and sisters. President Mrs. Mary
A. Leaver then arose and said that although
the afternoon was far spent, and the time
had been occupied in a manner most grati-
fying to herself and instructive and inter-
esting, she was sure, to all present, she
wished to add a few words in favor of her
sisters in the Ward, and for their encour-
agement. She had found those associated
with her in the Society, always on hand to
do whatever duty required, for which she
felt to thank them. She also felt thankful
that they had a Bishop who was willing to
counsel with them, and render assistance by
way of advice or whatever was needed.
The sisters had mostly come to see the ne-
cessity of retrenching in many ways. She
saw no new hats or bonnets worn among
them this winter; they were wearing
their old ones, some of them had been
trimmed up and made over, but were not
new. This she considered creditable to the
Society. An Industrial Society had been
partially organized in the Ward, they were
soon to hold another meeting to complete
the organization; after which they intended
to produce and prepare for use, everything
as far as possible, which they should con-
sume. After thanking the cisitor for
meeting with the Society and giving in-
structions and encouragement, Sister Leab-
er concluded her remarks, the choir sang
"Beautiful Home," meeting adjourned and
was dismissed with prayer by Bishop
Sheets.


[Column 1]
		"WOMAN'S RIGHTS."

	Do I believe in woman's rights? Yes,
I believe in them in many ways besides that
of voting. But in the first place, I solemnly
protest against womans being judged, con-
demned and punished according to the laws
that she has had no hand in making. In-
deed I think there is great need of a revo-
lution in the sentiments of both men and wo-
men as well as laws. We frequently read in
the newspapers of the day, of one man run-
ing away with another man's wife. In a late
case of this kind, after a few weeks of sin-
ful pleasure, the runaways got sick of their
folly and returned to their families. In the
evening the returned gentleman was seen
riding out with his wife. His friends con-
gratulated him on his return, and pittied
him "poor fellow," for being led away by
that bad, bold woman. It was not his fault,
and his wife ought to be proud of such a
nice honorable man for her husband, if she
was a virtuous woman. But how was it
with the woman whom he had seduced
away from her home? Was she taken back
to her family? No! She was not fit for the
companionship of innocent babes, and the
bosom of her noble husband. Oh dear!—
no! He would get a divorce and turn her
out to infamy and a life of shame. For now,
who would befriend her? She was only a
woman; therefore she had no right to ex-
pect any mercy.
	True, the law of Moses provided for such
cases as the above, that the guilty parties
should be stoned to death. I should have
no objection to such a law now, as long as they
were to stone the man as well as the woman.
But it seems that eighteen hundred years ago
the world was as bad as it is now. For then
they brought a woman before Jesus saying,
Master, this woman was caught in the act of
adultry; what shall he done with her? What
sayest thou? And Jesus said to them, "he
that is without sin among you, let him first
cast a stone at her." And they which heard
it, being convicted by their own conscien-
ces, went out one by one beginning at the
eldest unto the last, and Jesus was left alone
and the woman standing in the midst.
When Jesus saw that the woman was left
alone, he said unto her, "woman hath no man
condemned thee?" And she said "No man,
Lord." And he said "Neither do I con-
demn thee; go and sin no more."
	I remember some years ago while riding
home with some neighbors after an after-
noon conference, some remarks were made
about President Young's teachings in re-
gard to the treatment of the Elders to their
wives. The driver of the wagon who was
an Elder, said, "Do you think I would ever
ask forgiveness of a woman! I answered
him, "If you should do your wife an injury,
would you not rather ask her forgivness,
than let the feeling created by the wrong
she had suffered rankle in her breast against
you? “No! never would I stoop so low as
to ask forgiveness of any woman!"
	I presume many if not all, who read this
article, have heard similar expressions from
similar ignorant men. Now I would ask,
what is there in man that he should consid-
er himself so much better than his better-
half! If he sprang from the Deity, did not
woman also? If he is made of mettle like
that the Gods are made of, is not woman
made of the same? If he came from his
Father's loins, and was nurtured upon his
Mother's lap, what other place did his sis-
ter come from that she should be accounted
so inferior to him? If the Lord had a pur-
pose in creating the male part of humanity,
had he not equally as good a purpose in cre-
ating the female part also? Or did He make

[Column2]
her simply to bear the faults of man?
	I know we are taught that Eve was the
first to sin. Well, she was simply more
progressive than Adam. She did not want
to live in the beautiful garden for ever, and
be nobody—not able even to make her own
aprons.						E. N. B.
	Ogden.


FLORAL HINTS.

	A TABLESPOONFUL of guano in a gallon
of soft water, administered once in three or
four weeks, is an excellent fertilizer for
house plants.
	FLOWERS in winter time are cheap luxu-
ries. Now is the time to start a few bulbs
for winter bloom in room and windows.
Write to a seedsman for a catalouge which
will inform you all about management, va-
rieties, prices, etc., and then try a little—or
much, as you may incline—indoor winter
gardening.
	A CORRESPONDENT of the Boston Tran-
script gives the following way of preserv-
ing autumn leaves, vis.: Iron them fresh
with a warm (not hot) iron on which some
spermaceti has been lightly rubbed. This
method preserves perfectly their lovely
tints and gives a waxy gloss which no other
one secures. The process is very rapid and
very agreeable, and no lady who ever tried
the tedious and uncertain experiment of
pressing will ever again resort to it after
once trying this new and better way.


A SPLENDID DESCRIPTION.

	On a certain occasion one Paul Denton, a
Methodist preacher in Texas, advertised a bar-
becue, with better liquor than is usually fur-
nished. When the people had assembled, a
desperado in the crowd cried out:
	"Mr. Paul Denton, your reverence has lied.
You promised not only a good barbecue, but
better liquor. Where's the liquor?"
	“There!” answered the missionary, in tones
of thunder, and pointing his long, bony finger
at the matchless double spring gushing up in
two strong columns with a sound like a shout
of joy from the bosom of the earth. "There!"
he repeated, with a look terrible as lightning,
while his enemy fairly trembled at his feet;
"there is the liquor which the God Eternal
brews for all his children. Not in the simmer-
ing still, over smoky fires choked with poison-
ous gases, and surrounded with the stench of
sickening odors and corruption, doth your
Father in Heaven prepare the precious essence
of life—pure cold water. But in the glade and
grassy dell; where the deer wander and the
child loves to play, there God brews it; and
down in the deepest valleys, where the foun-
tain murmurs and the rills sing; and high up
on the mountain tops, where the granite
glitters like gold in the sun, where the storms
crash; and out on the wild, wild sea, where
the hurricane howls music, and the big waves
roar chorus; sweeping in the march of God—
there he brews it—the beverage of life, health-
giving water. And everywhere it is a thing of
beauty—gleaming in the dew-drop, singing in
the summer rain, shining in the ice gems, till
they seem turned to living jewels, spreading a
golden veil over the setting sun, or a white
gauze around the midnight moon; sporting in
the cataract, sleeping in the glazier, dancing
in the hail shower, folding its bright curtains
softly around the wintry world, and weaving
the many-colored iris, the seraph's zone of the
air; whose warp is in the rain-drops of the
earth, and whose woof is in the sunbeams of
Heaven, all checkered over with the celestial
flowers of the mystic hand of refraction—that
blessed, life-water. No poison bubbles on its
brink; its foam brings not madness and mur-
der; no blood stains its liquid glass, pale widows
and starving children weep not burning tears
in its depths! Speak out, my friend—would
you exchange it for the demon's drink, al-
cohol?"
	A shout like the roar of the tempest answer-
ed—"No!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
						For the Exponent.
		SELF IMPROVEMENT.

	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

					"The keen spirit
	Seizes the prompt occasion,—makes the thoughts
	Start into instant action and at once
	Plans and performs, resolves and executes."
	Every faculty we possess is capable of be-
ing cultivated to a greater or less extent,
according to our own energy, perseverance
and indefatigable efforts. We may talk of
circumstances, opportunities and resources,
but observation and experience will testify
to a certainty that in most instances, it is,
and always has been, those who have had
the least opportunity, most untoward cir-
cumstances and fewest resources, who have
attained the greatest celebrity. How many,
even in a very limited sphere can we recall
to mind, who have had the most brilliant
prospects opened before them, with every-
thing seemingly favorable to highest de-
velopments of character and intellect, that
have allowed themselves to live in a sort of
thoughtless inaction, carried along perhaps
on the shoulders of influence, with scarcely
an idea of their own, or power to call forth
at the proper moment, a single thought
worthy the consideration of others.
	The usual term applied to successful peo-
ple is, that they had genius. They may,
or may not have had, any extraordinary
gift or talent. Granting they had, what
would it do for them, without cultivation?
If they were incapable of self-improvement,
and happened to be born in poverty, which
is most generally the case with geniuses,
they might live and die, as many do no
doubt, unknown and unappreciated; and
who would be the wiser or the better for it,
or what benefit would ever accrue to the 
world from it? They would not be half so
commendable or worthy of admiration, nor
fill the measure of their creation nearly so
well as the persons possessed of sound com-
mon sense and a good amount of persever-
ance, are able to perform up-hill work, know-
ing that they must depend upon what they
can make themselves, independent of her-
editary, or inherent genius, influence, or
position.
	Perhaps some of our readers may think
this is a subject, fit only for the "sterner sex;"
but in this day and age, the advance of in-
telligence has become so unlimited, that
women are considered capable of improve-
ment to the same extent as their "fellow-
men," and if so, why not of self-improve-
ment? The writer of these lines is anxious
to see the women of Utah embrace the idea
of self-improvement; and would say to them
all, through these columns, whether your
circumstances are favorable or otherwise,
whether you are rich or poor, learned or ig-
norant, you ARE capable of self-improve-
ment.
	I have had occasion recently to call upon
many of the poor who are crowded into
back-streets and alleys, into garrets and
basements, and all sorts of out-of-the-way
places; and it has set me thinking seriously.
What can be done to benefit their condition
materially? The answer comes to me
clearly and forcibly, teach them self-im-
provement. If it is possible to arouse with-
in them a wish, or desire to improve them-
selves and their circumstances in life, we
ought to make a prodigious effort.
	That our city should not become like the
cities of Babylon has been our ambition;
but if we do not mind we will soon have
some of the scum and filth and degradation,

[Column 2]
which abound to such an alarming extent
in the cities of the East.
	There has never been an organization
more conducive to self-improvement, or
more suggestive of ways and means to ele-
vate and develop woman, than the “Re-
trenchment Association.” Every woman
through this channel, has an opportunity for
self-improvement; and if some of our young
ladies whose time hangs so heavily upon
their hands that they are obliged to read
“yellow-covered literature,” and choke
down every sort of trash, that the press fur-
nishes in this “enlightened nineteenth cen-
tury,” would come out to these meetings,
and if they themselves are so thoroughly
accomplished, that there is no occasion for
self-improvement, exert a little of this
power of knowledge in developing others,
they would do great credit to themselves
and materially benefit society. The idea of
any ones saying, they can’t do any good, is
only equivalent to admitting they are too
idle, or too selfish; every woman can do
some good to herself and others by making
an exertion. We hear a great deal about
opportunities, but we can make our own op-
portunities in many instances, if we will;
and it will assuredly reflect greater credit
on us, than to wait for a chance, or other
people to make them for us.
	I could tell you of a woman who had no
opportunities (and less than none if possi-
ble,) to obtain knowledge; who was left an
orphan and had to struggle against all sorts
of adverse circumstances. She did not
possess any apparent genius, nor was she
beautiful enough to attract the attention of
any “good fairy;” but she had energy, per-
severance and determination; she was in-
dustrious and untiring in her efforts for self-
improvement. She came to me a little girl
in Winter-Quarters where there were no
advantages favorable to education, and
asked me to help her with some sums; I
never saw her before, but I have known her
ever since; and I can say truthfully that she
is a self-made woman. To-day she is capa-
ble of conversing upon almost any solid sub-
ject, and all the general topics of the day;
besides having a home of her own provid-
ing. How many girls are there in Utah,
capable of developing into women of mind,
of character, and of taking an active and
efficient part in the business of practical
life?
	Girls don’t be afraid of the term "strong-
minded," for of such there is certainly a ne-
cessity; the stronger you are in mind and body
the better for you, and exceedingly better
for the next generation. If you want noble
women, make yourselves such by your own
merits; do not wait for any other person to
bring you forward; study self-improvement,
in mind, in manners, in temper and disposi-
tion. No matter how old we are, while we
retain our faculties, we are susceptible of
self-improvement. I was talking to a very
old lady not long since, who told me she
had improved herself wonderfully in the
last few years. Said she, “I used to be rude
and abrupt to people, bitter in my feelings,
and of a sour temper. No one could please
me; but since I have become too old for hard
work, I have been cultivating myself, and I
am not like the same woman.” 
	Well, let us commence now, and not wait,
and lend to each other a helping hand in
the work of self-improvement.
	Salt Lake City Jan 12th, 1875.


By a vote of the faculty of Harvard 300
marks of censure will be sufficient this year
to prevent seniors from getting their degree,
and 200 marks will give a special probation.


OUR NUMERALS.

	A correspondent asks, "What is the ori-
gin of our present nine figures, 1, 2, 3, etc.?
I am aware they are Arabic, but how came
they to assume their present form? What
gave the figures 8 and 7, for instance, their
peculiar forms? 3 and 5 are alike, with the
tops turned different ways; 6 and 9 are the
same only reversed. If you can give your
readers any light on this somewhat recon-
dite topic, they would be obliged."
	Recently laborious researches have devel-
oped the fact that the numerals now in use
are not of Arabic origin. They are to be
reckoned among the ingenious inventions of
the Brahmins of India, and date back to
some undetermined period before the Chris-
tian era. An obscurity which scholars have
thus far been unable to clear up envelops the
inquiry as to the time they first became
known to the Arabs and were introduced
into Europe. It is supposed by the most
learned writers on the subject that the Arabs
obtained their knowledge of the characters
through the Persians, who were conquered
by them in 636, and adopted their religion
and one of their dialects. The so-called
Arabic figures resemble the Persic charac-
ters, which are those in popular use through-
out India. Trustworthy authorities fix the
period at which the Arabs acquired the nu-
merals as late as the middle of the thirteenth
century. Others believe the figures, called
"Gobar" by the Arabs, were brought to Bag-
dad during the reign of Al-Mansor (760) or
his immediate successors, and certainly not
later than the time of Al-Mamum, and
thence were carried to Spain during the end
of the tenth or beginning of the eleventh
century.
	A knowledge of the so-called Arabic fig-
ures was soon communicated to the learned
men of Europe. The astronomers of France
and Germany seem to have first employed
them in the fourteenth century, in compos-
ing calendars, which were sent to the vari-
ous religious houses. By this means the
characters were generally diffused through
Europe. One of the oldest authentic dates
in the Arabic numerals is that of 1375, which
was written by Petrarch in a copy of St.
Augustine. The college accounts in the
English universities were generally kept in
the Roman numerals until the beginning of
the sixteenth century. The Arabic charac-
ters were not used in the parish registers
before 1600. The oldest date met with in
Scotland is that of 1490, which occurs in the
rent-roll of the Diocese of St. Andrew's.
	The forms of several of the figures have
undergone considerable change since their
first introduction into Europe. In the old-
est manuscripts the figures 4, 5 and 7 are
most unlike the present characters. The 4
consists of a loop with the ends pointing
down; the 5 has some likeness to the figure
9; and the 7 is simply an inverted V. In
the dates used by Caxton in the year 1480,
the 4 has assumed its present shape, but the
5 and 7 are still very unlike the same char-
acters of to-day. There is no reason assigned
for these changes, which appear to have
been gradual, and the result of choice rather
than introduction. Nor have we ever met
with any attempt to attach an especial sig-
nificance to the forms of the numerals. If
there be a symbolism hidden in their mold
it has yet to be unveiled.—Chicago Tribune.


﻿IN boring for water on the farm of Mr.
Hugenin, in the vicinity of Sheridan, Ill.,
after going through one hundred feet of
solid rock, a vein of coal five feet in depth 
was struck.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, In Salt. Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 15, 1875.


[Column 1]
		SPLINTERS.
			LOCAL.
	Some people imagined an earthquake was
shaking the western portion of this city,
about noon last Monday. The shock was oc-
casioned by the explosion of a large boiler
......C. W. Stayner makes the "Nose" a mat-
ter of much interest in his lecture on that
subject, which was ably delivered in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms on the evening
of the 11th inst......Sleigh-riding has been
participated in to a considerable extent by
the beaux and belles of this city since the
fall of snow which closely followed the hol-
idays......There was a heavy snowslide in
Little Cottonwood kanyon on the 11th inst.
......The Board of Directors of the Deseret
Agricultural and Manufacturing Society,
held their first meeting for the year 1875,
last Wednesday......A branch of industry
new to this city has lately been commenced,
that of artificial stone making. The arti-
cle produced is natural in appearance and
apparently durable....A new and commo-
dious school house was lately finished and
dedicated at Mill Creek, being the third
school house completed in that district
within two years.
			PERSONAL. 
	Kalakaua receives so much attention he
is becoming aristocratic in his feelings and
begins to put on airs.....Grant has fears of
pulmonary affection in the Louisiana Leg-
islative Assembly if too much talk is in-
dulged in, so he sends military force to set-
tle their differences for them.... Grace
Greenwood's mother died recently.......
Prince George of Russia has chosen subject
matter from the Old Testament upon which
he is writing a drama......John P. Foley
has retired from the position of editor of
the "National Republican," at Washington,
which he held for several years......Senator
Ferry of Connecticut has been so seriously
ill at Washington as to render it necessary
for him to return home.
			CASUAL.
	"New Lampedo," a British ship was
lately burned at sea. The crew were saved
......At Shannon, Miss., a man named Rich-
ard Barnum, his wife and two children
were burned to death in a recent fire......
A fire on Sunday destroyed one hundred
and twenty-five thousand dollars worth of
property at Batesville, Ind.......Three chil-
dren in Trenton, N. J., were drowned last
week, having ventured on thin ice. Their
family names were Collins, Boget and Ste-
vens......The metal works in Watertown,
Mass., belonging to Mr. Blodgett, were re-
cently destroyed by fire......In Wyoming,
eight persons were lately killed by an ex-
plosion in a coal mine...An eminent Eng-
lish geologist, Sir Charles Lyell, fell down
stairs and sustained serious injuries, but is
recovering.....Wide spread inundation and
distress has been caused in China from the
event of the Yellow river’s changing its
course near its mouth....England had two
railway collisions with fatal results in one
week lately......One of the wealthiest firms
of Yeddo, Japan, known as Onoo & Co., has
failed.......A $20,000 tannery has been
burned in Delhi, Ont.......Eight or ten build-
ings in Clinton, Ohio, were destroyed by
fire the last week in December.......Three
teams and four men were drowned in the
river at Omaha on the 12th inst.
			POLITICAL 
	The Republican: version of the late diffi-
culties in the Louisiana Legislature has
been sent to Congress.....Strange acts of
cruelty and illegality are reported by a con-

[Column 2]
gressional investigating committee in Miss-
issippi....Political parties all over the
country denounce the action of the Presi-
dent in sending military force into the
Louisiana Legislature as a means of settling
their disturbnaces....Abuse of power
among men holding authority is complained
of by the people in almost every State and
Territory, the protestations continually in-
creasing.


"LOVE IS THE FULFILLING OF
			THE LAW."

	Love, the holy influence it sheds, and the
power and energy it lends are the sacred charms
which make the joys and pleasures of life so
sweet, its cares, perplexities and bitter griefs
endurable. Love is the soul creator of every
pure delight. What makes the smiling infant
in its mother's arms so innocently happy, but
the power of love which encircles it? Such
unmistakable tokens of deep, decided and un-
selfish affection as are constantly lavished upon
"the baby," by all around it, would undoubt-
edly serve to render most satisfactory the lives
of men and women. What other earthly bliss
can equal that which accompanies the sweet
assurance of love reciprocated? And, indeed,
there can be no other sorrow so consummate as
that which comes with a knowledge of the
hopeless loss of love from one beloved.
	If there is a pitiable thing in all the Lord's
creation, it is the being who exists without
love.
	"You are a naughty girl, and I don't love
you!" were the actual words—thoughtless,
cruel, false words of a mother to her four year
old daughter, whose offense was merely the
continued asking of questions about the pies
which were being made, after she had been told
to be still. A few moments had passed when
the child was discovered, sinking down in a cor-
ner of the room and sobbing as though her little
heart was breaking. When questioned con-
cerning her troubles, her answer came with a
passionate burst of grief—“My mother don’t
love me!” Did ever mortal lips give utterance
to a more touching expression? No wonder the
tried and tired heart of the mother grew sud-
denly sore and penitent.
	Remember mothers, when perchance your
own hearts are starving for that great essential
stimulus, love, that the undeveloped minds and
hearts of your little ones are most impressive
and sensitive. And as you pray God to supply
your wants, withhold not from your children
the sweet portion of bounteous love.
	When husbands and wives love each other as
they should do, when parents love their chil-
dren according to the pattern set by the great
Elohim, and brothers and sisters, relatives,
friends and neighbors love as they have all been
commanded of God; then will universal peace


reign, eternal happiness be established, and the
Law fulfilled.


IS IT FAIR?

	We were on the way to Sunday school last
Sabbath, when the sound of infant voices at-
tracted our attention. One voice was that of a
little girl speaking between sobs, in a grieved
and angry tone.
	"You did too! you pushed me over, and I'll
tell mother!" she said.
	Sure enough, she had been pushed and caused
to slip down, by a domineering little brother,
because they both wanted to take charge of a
younger member of the family, which accom-
panied them. And there was the little miss
with her stockings all muddy, her apron mussed
and worst of all, her delicate feelings wounded
by the rude conduct of her brother.
	O man! we thought, the spirit manifested by
this burly urchin is but a fac-simile of that
which you, in your great want of discernment,
so universally extend to your sisters.
	No wonder the cry has been sounded, "Wo-
man arouse thee!" On every hand has she been
thrust aside when she has sought to gain a posi-
tion or accomplish a work of which her stern
brother has accounted her unworthy or incapa-
ble. There was quite as much justice shown in
the act of that arrogant child, when he pushed
his sister down in the mud, as is generally rep-
resented in the acts of men toward their strug-
gling sisters.
	These thoughts were not awakened through
pain of immediate or personal injuries. It is
but just for us to say that, so far as individual
experience extends, we have never met with
other than encouraging treatment from our
lordly friends in attempting self-advancement
or the accomplishment of any good whatever.
In fact, to be not only gentlemanly and oblig-
ing in every true sense of the word, but also co-
adjutant in every instance wherein woman
seeks the genuine welfare or promotion of any
worthy person or cause, is one thing that the
true Morman man holds to be a duty. And we
have no occasion to complain of the nonper-
formance of that duty on the part of any gen-
tleman upon our list of friends.
	If every woman in the United States could
thus speak truthfully, there would be no neces-
sity for Woman Suffrage meetings being held
all over the country. Instead of spending pre-
cious time to establish the great truth that wo-
man's voice as well as man's should be heard
in all matters of public interest, in as much as
she must abide the laws which are made for the
public benefit, these women might be employed
in gardening or teaching school, or any other
good and useful pursuit. But the people do not
comprehend it, hence the delay and expense of
time and strength.
	But any man of good sense would say that
in the case of the Sunday School children which
we have exemplified, the brother acted unkind-
ly and unfairly. We say, not more ungener-
ously or unjustly than do those men who would
deny their sisters any legitimate right.


A PROMISE.

      If every Latter-day Saint mother, and those
who have hopes of becoming mothers, could
realize one important tenet attached to the strict
observance of "A Word of Wisdom,"  given to
the Prophet Joseph Smith, for the benefit of
the Saints, we venture the opinion that a cup
of tea or coffee or a glass of wine would tempt,
no woman in Zion to violate that law.
	That to those who remember and keep the


word of wisdom as given, "walking in obedience
to the commandments" will be awarded health,
strength and even great treasures of knowledge,
is but a meagre promise to mothers, compared
with that which follows, to which we would di-
rect attention.
	"And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise,
that the destroying angel shall pass by them,
as the children of Israel, and not slay them."
	The destroying angel, sent forth to slay all
the first-born among the Egyptians, passed by
the children of Israel, and slew them not. And
the promise is made to those who keep the
commandments and heed the warning given in
the word of wisdom, that the same mercies and
respect shall be shown them, that the destroyer
shall pass them by as the children of Israel. O!
beautiful, sweet promise! O! blessed and hap-
py parents who can conscientiously lay claim
to it!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTICE.
	
	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January,
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed
instead of at the place of delivery; and
have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the precinct of
this county.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	People residing in the Southern settle-
ments of Utah county will enjoy the conve-
nience of passenger trains running daily on the
Utah Southern Railroad, between this city and
Payson, on and after the 20th inst.
	KING KALAKAUA the Hawaiian sovereign, it
is expected will soon be in our midst on his re-
turn west. The city council has instructed
Mayor Wells to invite his majesty to visit and
accept the hospitalities of the city.
	THE MUSICAL association, which comprises
the best musical talent in the city, we under-
stand has in preparation the "Oratorio of the
Messiah;" one of the finest productions of that
great German master of harmony, George Fred-
erick Handel.
	A NEGRO woman in Ophir, called Fanny
Payne, was recently arrested for the shooting
of another woman by the name of Bennett.
The ball was extracted, and Mrs. Bennett was
likely to recover at last accounts.
	BECAUSE SLEIGH riding is a healthful, lively
and exhilerating amusement, we do not see
the necessity of horses being driven to death
in executing their part of it. Yet such has
been the case in several instances in this city
during the past two weeks; which is, to use the
mildest term, shameful.
	Mr. James Dwyer has favored us with Jan-
uary numbers of the “Popular Science Month-
ly,” “Scribners Monthly," the “Atlantic
Monthly" and "Harper's New Monthly Maga-
zine." These books contain some excellent
reading, and can be obtained, any one, or all of
them, at Dwyer's Book Store, Main Street.
	The subject of closing balls and parties by
midnight has been under discussion in some of
the counsel meetings in this city. We suggest
to our young lady friends, the propriety of giv-
ing their escorts to understand that eleven or
twelve o'clock is their time for retiring from
such places of entertainment; thus lending
their influence to assist in a good cause.
	A gentleman of Santaquin pays us a pleas-
ant compliment. He writes, enclosing sub-


scription money, and says: "Although I am
an old bachelor, I delight in reading your ex-
cellent paper, and would go without a new hat
rather than do without it. It is brim full of
good common sense reading; wish every body
would take it." We return thanks, and think
our bachelor friend deserves to become the hus-
band of some good, loving, faithful fair one.
	THE SAINTS at St. George celebrated New
Year's day by meeting in a general grand gath
ering for religious worship. They were ad
dressed by President Geo. A. Smith and others
and extracts from various works were read, in
cluding writings by Col. Thomas L. Kane and
Captain Codman, relating to the Mormons.
President Young sent greetings and blessings
to the people, and desired a continuation of the
prayers of the Saints that his health might
continue to improve.


[Column 1]
ETIQUETTE OF THE. REPUBLICAN
			COURT. 
[From the American Historical Record.]
	When Washington was inaugurated the
first President of the United States, he
found it necessary to establish and fix rules
concerning the reception of visitors, in or-
der to have time to attend to his official du-
ties properly. The precedents of monar-
chy might not be followed with consistency,
but at the same time there were good rea-
sons, for the chief magistrate assuming a
certain degree of dignity and reserve on all
occasions. The rules that should govern
the Republican court had, therefore, to be
made without a precedent. Accordingly
Washington addressed a note to Colonel Al-
exander Hamilton,telling him that it was his
wish to adopt some system as, without over-
stepping the bounds of Republican simplic-
ity, would best maintain the dignity of the
office and secure the President such a com-
mand of his time as was necessary to a
proper performance of his official duties,
and asking Hamilton to make suggestions.
This he did about a week after the inaugu-
ration, and to Colonel Humphreys, a former
aid-de-camp to Washington, and who had
then recently been Secretary of the Ameri-
can Legation at Paris, was left the arrange-
ment of the details of etiquette. It was de-
cided that the President should not return
visits; that formal invitations to dinner
should be given only to official characters
and distinguished strangers, and that vis-
its of mere courtesy should be confined to
the afternoon of Tuesday in each week.
Washington was compelled, at times, to set-
tle instantly a point connected with official
etiquette, himself. In his diary of Sunday
the 15th of November, 1789, he wrote: “Re-
ceived aninvitation to attend the funeral, of
Mrs. Bosevelt, (the wife of a Senator of
this [New York] State) but declined com-
plying with—first because the propriety of
accepting any invitation of this sort ap-
peared questionable—and secondly (though
to do it in this instance might not be im-
proper) because it might be difficult to dis-
criminate in cases that might hereafter hap-
pen.” This separation of the President’s
public life from that of a public citizen dur-
ing his administration, has been kept up
until within the last few years.
	After the arrival of Mrs. Washington at
or near the close of May (1789), it was ar-
ranged that she, too, should have a weekly
reception. Accordingly the drawing-room
of the presidential mansion was open from 8
till 10 o’clock every Friday evening for
visits to Mrs. Washington, at which her
husband was usually present until 9 o’clock,
when he not only retired from the room but

[Column2]
to his bed, that being his accustomed hour
for retiring at his home at Mt. Vernon. At
Mrs. Washington’s reception was generally
seen the cultivated portion of society—per-
sons (and their families) connected, with the
Government, and all whose social positions
entitled them to recognition in refined cir-
cles. On such occasions all were required
to appear in full dress.	
	The President soon adopted the rule of
giving a dinner party every Wednesday, to
members of Congress and of his Cabinet,
Embassadors and other eminent persons,
who were always formally invited by
card.
	Sometimes he would have few and some-
times many at these dinner parties; and
frequently the secretaries or ministers only
would be invited for the purpose of discuss-
ing cabinet questions over a bottle of wine.
Mrs. Cushing, wife of Judge William Cush-
ing, of the Supreme Court, who adminis-
tered the oath of office to Washington at his
second inauguration, wrote from Philadel-
phia on the 2d of April, 1795:—“We dined
to-day with the President and Mrs. Wash-
ington, in company with Mr. and Mrs. Ham-
mond,the Chevalier and Madame Frore,(who
is truly an elegant woman) Don Philip Jau-
dennes and his lady, Mr. and Mrs. Van
Breckel, Mr. and Mrs. Randolph, Mr. and
Mrs. Walcott, Mr. and Mrs. Pinckney, Mr.
and Mrs. Coxe, Madame Frere and Mad-
ame Jaudennes were brilliant with dia-
monds." Hammond was the British Min-
ister; Van Berckel was the Minister from
Holland; the Chevalier Frere was the rep-
resentative of Portugal, and Jaudennes was
the Spanish Minister.
	Washington gave a farewell dinner on
the eve of retirement from public life, on
which occasion he sent out his invitation
cards for the last time. “To-morrow,” he
wrote to Gen. Knox on the 2d of March,
1797, “at dinner, I shall, as a servant of the
public,take my leave of the President elect,
of the foreign characters, the heads of de-
partments, etc.” To that dinner as many
were invited as could be seated at the table-
The late venerable Bishop White of Penn-
sylvania was present. "During the din-
ner,” he afterwards wrote to a friend,
“much hilarity prevailed; but on the re-
moval of the cloth it was put an end to by
the President—certainly without design.
Having filled his glass, he addressed the
company with a smiling countenance, say-
ing ladies and gentlemen, this is the last
time I shall drink your health as a public
man. I do it with sincerity, wishing you
all possible happiness.' There was an end
to all pleasantry.” It is said that tears suf-
fused the cheeks of several who were pres-
ent, especially some of the ladies, who had
become much attached to the President and
Mrs. Washington.


The good boy at present is almost extinct.
There are many boys who are very good while
they are sick, when attending funerals, and when
sleceping. But at other times! Well—The bad
boy is a fellow who will bear watching. When
he does wrong he should be corporally rebuked,
with a good dose of Solomon's birch tonic. One
of these bad boys has been trying to find a virtu-
ous stage-driver. His test is to hit the driver in
the head with a turnip or potato; then if he swears,
he is a bad man—if not, he is very virtuous. The
same boy has tested fifty-six drivers, and found
but one virtuous man. The man was dumb.


DURING the month of November three
hundred and sixty-four new Granges were
organized in the United States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PERFECT RESIGNATION—AN
				ACROSTIC.
	[The initial letters of the alternative lines beginning
with the first give the word FATHER. The remaining in-
itial letters taken in order give the word Mother.]
	Father, to Thee I lift my longing eyes,
		My hope, my love, my all now rest in Thee;
	Around my shattered bark the tempests rise,
		O let Thy arms of love encircle me.
	The lights of time are fading one by one,
		The glow of earthly bliss has fled my gaze.
	Hung on Thy mercy and Thy love alone,
		Here would I linger out my fleeting days.
	Entwine thy arms around Thy lonely one,
		Enwrap him in Thy robe of perfect love.
	Remove each stain, and when life's work is done
		Raise to a mansion in Thy court above.
										[F. MOCRE.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Grandmother's Gingerbread.—Cup and a half of
molasses, cup rich sour cream, teaspoonful salara
-tus, tablespoonful ginger, mix a little stiff.
	German toast.—To one egg, beaten well, add one
cup sweet milk or cream, season with a little salt
and pepper. Cut in slices. stale bread, and dip in
the milk to moisten, and fry in butter on a griddle.
This we think is an extra nice dish for breakfast.
	Good Johnny Cake.—Beat up one egg eith one-
third of a cup of sugar, add one tablespoonful of
melted butter, and one pint of sweet milk, two
and a half cups of meal, half cup of flour, rea-spoonful of cream-of-tartar and half teaspoonful of
soda.
	Sponge Gingerbread.—One cup of sour milk,
one cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, two
eggs, one-half teaspoonful of salaratus, one table-
spoonful of ginger, flour to make it thick as pound
cake. Put the butter, molasses and ginger together
and make them quite warm, then add the milk,
flour and salaratus and bake as soon as possible.
	Sponge Cake.—The following recepie for sponge
cake is pronounced excellent: Ten eggs; the same
weight of sugar and one half the weight of flour.
The grated rind and juice of one lemon. Beat
yolks and sugar to a cream; then stir in gradually
and very gently the flour, and the whites of the
eggs, well beaten; add lemon.
	Doughnuts.—One teacupful of sugar, one tea-
cupful of sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of
soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one tea-
spoonful of sweet cream or lump of butter the size
of a hickory nut and spice to taste, roll thin and
cut with a round tin, making a hole in the center
with a thimble; fry until a light brown.
	Breakfast Cake.—In absence of potatoes; or, to
be eaten with butter while warm. Equal parts
sifted corn meal and flour; stir or sift in carefully
while dry one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. Dis-
solve in milk (sufficient to mix, and form a batter
that will pour easily into baking tins), one level
teaspoonful each of carbonate of soda and salt;
sweeten to taste. Lastly, add one or two (accord-
ing to supply) well-beaten eggs to one cake, and
bake in a quick oven to a nice brown. Do not
scald and spoil your meal.
	How to Cook Oatmeal.—First, be sure to get new,
fresh oatmeal, as if it becomes damp or old it is
bitter. Put one quart of water into a tinned stew
pan; salt sufficient to be palatable; stir in carefully,
so as not to have it lumpy, three or four handfuls of
oatmeal. Put it over the fire and stir continually
until it has swollen all it will, using care not to
have it burn on the bottom. When it has swollen
all is will, add more water, and then put the stew
pan into a kettle of hot water and leave it cooking
several hours—the longer the better, as the longer
it is cooked the softer and more jelly-like it becomes.
Having the stew pan in another kettle of hot water
prevents its burning on the bottom, and you are re-
lieved from constant stirring, It is good with
milk, syrup, or sweetened milk; or even with but-ter alone.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	CATARRH AND LIVER REMEDY:—"Boston
Myra" can cure the catarrh by a daily use of
raw onions as an article of food; at the same
time, use a snuff made of white sugar, laun-
dry starch, and burned alum, pulverized
and mixed in equal quantities—to be used
the same as other snuff.
	For the liver complaint, avoid coffer, to-
bacco, tea, liquors, and  narcotics of all kinds;
use mild doses of Ayer's pills; eat at regular
hours; diet, rice, baked potatoes, beefsteak
and chickens; avoid pork and pork fat; eat
graham of corn bread. Milk once a dat is
good.—"Rural New Yorker."
	SEDATIVES FOR CHILDREN.—The Popu-
lar Science Monthly gives this warning on
the important matter of using sedatives for
little ones: One of the great danger at-
tending the use of the various sedatives em-
ployed in the nursery is that they tend to
produce the opium habit. These quack
medicines owe their soothing and quieting
effects to the action of opium, and the in-
fant is by them given a morbid appetite for
narcotic stimulants. The offering for sale of
such nostrums should be prohibited, as tend-
ing to the physical and moral deterioration
of the race. In India mothers give to their
infants sugar pills containing opium, and the
result is a languid, sensual race of hopeless
debauchees. In the United States the poi-
sonous dose is administered under another
name, but the consequence will probably be
the same."
	RAW TURNIPS.—Some one writes the
Herald of Health:—"I have always let my
children eat as many raw turnips as they
like. I heard a city woman say the other day
they were not healthy, and I believe they
don't hurt anybody. Will you please settle
the dispute for us?" The editor answers:—
"Generally children are fond of raw turnips,
of the flat, white, strap-leafed variety, if ta-
ken fresh from the field before very old and
tough. If they are scraped with a knife they
will not harm healthy, active children.
If simply chewed they are not easily digest-
ed. As a rule, country children have better
appetites and stronger powers of digestion
than city children. They get more fresh
air and exercise. There is more waste and
more want, hence the same rule will not ap-
ply to both classes.
	HARD AND SOFT WATER.—There is a no-
tion quite prevalent in the minds of the peo-
ple that the drinkin of hard water is inju-
rious to health, and most physicians have
warned people to as far as possible avoid the
practice. But Dr. Letherby, an English
physician, who has devoted much time to
investigating the subject, finds as the result
of his observations, that hard water is not
only clearer, colder, and more free from air,
and more agreeable to the taste than soft,
but that it is less liable to the absorption of
organic matter and to the sustenance of the
life of zygmotic organisms, or to exert sol-
vent properties upon salts of ireon or upon
leaden conducting pipes. And he claims
that the lime-salts exert a beneficial influ-
ence. It is asserted that a practical test of
the truth of this new theory is to be had in
the case of the residens of mountainous
districts, where the water is almost invaria-
bly hard and where the inhabitants exhibit
the best physical development. He claims
that water containing six grains of carbonate
of lime to the gallon is suitable for use in all
household purposes, for such water offers
the necessary amount of carbonate of lime
for the support of life in the simplest and
[Column 2]
	A CORSESPONDENT of the Boston Journal
writes:—Paralysis is becoming a prime dis-
ease. It is not confined to the fleshy, the
plethoric, nor to to the aged. The fast life
of our business young men tell on them. It
is a very common thing to see men of thirty
and thirty-five bald-headed, feeble-gaited,
and walking about with canes, their under-
pinning kncocked out with other signs of
premature age. These signs of early weak-
ness develop in paralysis. Sudden deaths
from this cause are very common. Several
have occured in railroad trains; the vibra-
tion seeming to predispose persons to the
disease. Not long since a gentleman died in
one of our churches. He was interested in
a case of discipline. He made a report to
the church on the case, sat down, laid his
head on the back of the seat and instantly
expired. In another case a man not accus-
tomed to public speaking arose to relate his
religious experience. He was so excited
that he could scarecly speak. In the midst
of his remarks he was seized with paralysis,
and carried to his home. Our young men
will have to tone down their style of living
if they amount to anything.


CHOOSING A SCHOOL.

	As no people experience so many vicissitudes
in a generation as the Americans, none stand
in greater need of a universal and practical ed-
ucation. Fortune is so extremely fickle in
this western world, where the onrushing tide
of humanity is subject to a thousand influ-
ences, where speculation is rife, extravagance
is on the increase, and impatience is the ruling
passion of the hour, men and women need to
be prepared for any fate. And to this end they
must possess that knowledge which will prove
of use in the hour of trial. Whatever may
have been the condition of women in other
ages and lands, in the United States of to-day
the exigences of the hour are such that a prac-
tical education for them can no longer be safe-
ly ignored. Girls need something more sub-
stantial than the accomplishments, sentiment,
and poetry, with which to go out into life and
fight its battles. If all women were Lady An-
gelinas and Baroness Bountifuls, with inherit-
ed establishments and adequate incomes, then
piano playing, waltzing, a smattering of French
and a course of moral philosophy and English
literature might suffice to float through life.
But even among such a class we should expect
to see much foolishness, perhaps absolute wick-
edness, vanity, extravagance, and butterfly ex-
istence ill becoming a human being. No mat-
ter how proud a position a woman may occupy
in America to-day, as the wife of a President or
Senator, as the daughter of a merchant of
wealth, or a great banker, to-morrow she ex-
periences reverses which require all her forti-
tude to meet, and possibly demand mental or
physical exertion on her part to secure the nec-
essaries of life. Instances like these are innu-
merable in our history, while the large class of
women who are not born to wealth, and have
little prospect of getting on in the world, stand
in equal need of knowing how to do something
which shall bring a price; how to accomplish
that which shall render them independent, and
be of use to others. Realizing these conditions,
parents, who, at this season of the year; are
seeking the best schools in which to place their
daughters, will naturally choose where there is
a judicious mingling of the practical with the
ornamental. Many schools and colleges for
ladies now give instruction in scientific and
practical matters, laying the foundations of an
education upon which a successful and shelter-
ing superstructure can be reared afterward.
Every fond father loves to see his daughter
beautiful, rosy-cheeked, sweet-voiced, healthy,
delicate-handed, interesting and accomplished;
he should also, wish to see her sensible, self-
sustained, wise and provided with the best ar-
mor he can give her for warding off the stings
and arrows of an outrageous fortune.—Ex.


SEVEN hundred female telegraphists are
employed in the central London Post Office.
Their wages vary from 14s. to 16s. a week.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		THE CHILDLESS HOME.

	Many newly-married people consider
childlessness a peculiarly fortunate circum-
stance. It relieves them from many cares,
annoyances and vexations. It abolishes the
nurse, sleepless nights, good Mrs. Winslow,
and the cradle. It gives opportunity for 
parties, balls, the opera, and sundry trips to
the mountains and sea-shore, which would
be exceedingly inconvenient if a little trou-
ble-maker had to be taken along or left be-
hind. There is nobody to litter the floors,
turn the show-articles upside down, and
make confusion generally; and there are no
sobs nor squalls, which those may call "mu-
sic" who have an ear for such sounds, which
our childless people have not. And then,
the landlords are so civil when they are
told, "No children;" that is the "open sesa-
me" to any desirable suite of apartments or
love of a cottage. Indeed, many of our
newly-married folks look upon no children
as the universal panacea for the ills of life,
and the infallible recipe for connubial, and
indeed all other happiness.
	But after a while the brightest and most
engaging couples tire of receptions, theaters,
concerts, and the like. The appetite for ex-
citement becomes sated. The relish for ar-
tificial enjoyments gets cloyed. The desire
for comfort and quiet takes the place of the
feverish craving for active pleasures. To
sit down at home over an entertaining book;
to break the monotony of an evening by a
pleasant chit chat, a few touches of music,
or an amusing game; to be warned off to
bed by velvet-footed dreams, stealing over
the senses and filling the fancy with drowsy
delights—these things invariably come in
time. And then comes a yearning for some-
thing the heart has not, a looking for what
the room does not contain, a feeling after
what no provision has been made for. But
the cradle does not come. The aversion to
care, infantile cries, and confusions of all
sorts, has become chronic; but little Two
Shoes is a tyrant, and wherever he sets up
his small despotism, insists that the "laws
of disorder" shall prevail. The desire for
somebody to pet, and play with, and dote
upon grows to a hunger, which, alas, does
not feed itself, and only gives way to the
more painful need of that sympathy, affec-
tion, friendship, solace and support which
none but a child can supply. There may be
wealth; yet who but a child shall keep at
bay that great brood of vultures and cormo-
rants which peck remorselessly at the life of
whoever has a purse? There may be social
position, and even fame; but how empty and
barren are all honors that must dissolve with
the breath of their wearer? The home may
be a palace; but its splendid halls will be
cold and cheerless as the forecourt of a sep-
ulchre, if they are not made the portals of
heaven by the prattle, the merry laugh, and
innocent hilarity of children, through whom
the Divine Paternity bestows perrennial
youth, and hope, and earthly immortality
upon parents here.
	Of all cheerless, unnatural places in the
world, a childless home is quite the most
uncomfortable. There is something oppres-
sive in its vacancy. Its stillness is stifling.
the heart faints and cries for what is not
there. The home into which the great
Father has once placed one of His little ones,
for however short a stay, is transformed by
that visitation, and can never lose the charm
of that mysterious coming, nor the light
that streamed through the door of the noise-
less departure. That door is open, and no
hand can shut it; and just on the other side
the unseen child engages in gambols, or is
busied with tasks, which it needs but a lit-

[Column 2]
tle imagination, blended with faith for a
parent's heart, to bear. No home can ever
be the same again into which one immortal
being rose to conscious life, and saw a heav-
en of love in a mother's eyes. Birth is the
great sacrament. But the home that has
had no such baptism, cold, dull and dreary
is it at the best, with none of the poetry of
life in it, no legends of angels trailing about
it, and no star shining over it to indicate
that it is favored of Heaven.—Golden Age.


PAPER IN THE BOSTON FIRE.

	Curious results followed some of the ex-
periments made upon charred papers and
documents, and the examination of books
in safes which proved worthless in the
great fire. It was found that what paper-
makers call poor paper—paper considerably
"clayed," stood the test best. Parchment
paper, used for bonds and legal documents,
shriveled up exceedingly, and the print
blistered so that it could be read when
the writing was illegible. So it was with
the engraved work on notes. The gilding,
on the account books burned and charred,
showed out as bright and clear as when the
books were new, which brings up the ques-
tion that if to introduce gilt-edged account
books would not be well, on the ground that
the gilt would stay the passage of fire to
the pages within. Books crammed into a
safe, so that it was difficult to get them out,
suffered considerably less than those that
were set in loosely; and in some cases out of
safes, in which everything else was worth-
less, were so far preserved that the figures
on their pages could be deciphered. With
charred papers, which could not be made
transparent by any light whatever used, it 
was found, after the employment of vitriol,
oxalic acid, chalk, glycerine, and other
things, that anything that moistened them
to a certain stage—to which it was delicate
work to get and not to pass—made the lines,
words, and figures legible through a mag-
nifying glass. It has been the almost uni-
versal experience that lead pencil marks
show out all right where ink marks cannot
be distinguished. The success of the use
of photography has already been noted.—
Boston Advertiser.


WRITING FOR NEWSPAPERS.

	Some people estimate the ability of a news-
paper and the talent of its editor by the quanti-
ty of original matter which it contains. The
"Literary Journal" truthfuly says: It is com-
paratively an easy task for a frothy writer to
pour out daily columns of words—words, upon
any and all subjects. His ideas may flow in
one week, washy, everlasting flood, and his
command of language may enable him to string
them together like bunches of onions, and yet
his paper may be a meagre and poor concern.
Indeed, the mere writing part of editing a pa-
per is but a small portion of the work. The
care, the time employed in selecting, is far more
important, and the tact of a good editor is bet-
ter shown by his selections than anything else;
and that we all know is half the battle. But,
as we have said, an editor ought to be estimated
and his labors understood and appreciated by
the general conduct of his paper—its tone—
its temper—its uniform, consistent course—its
aims—its manliness—its dignity—its propriety.
To preserve these as they should be preserved is
enough to occupy fully the time and attention
of any man. If to this be added the general
supervision of a newspaper establishment,
which most editors have to encounter, the won-
der is how they can find time to write at all.—
Every Saturday.


THE railways get about $8,000,000 a year
for transporting mail matter.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	CONNECTICUT ranks third in the United
States as a silk manufacturing State, having
twenty-five silk factories with a capital of
$3,450,000.
	MASSACHUSETTS is soon to have a reform-
atory prison for women, all the officers of
which, excepting the Superintendent, Trea-
surer and Steward, are to be women.
	A VEIN has been discovered in the main
shaft of the Sherman Mine, at Caribou, Cal.;
of brittle silver, intermingled with pure
sulphate of silver, that will pay $20,000 a
ton.
	EX-GOV. Boutwell, of Massachusetts, has
been making very careful experiments as to
what it costs to raise corn in that State. On
his best soil it costs sixty-eight cents per
bushel, but on heavy and harder soil to till
it would cost one-third more, or $1.00.
	IN the early days in the American colo-
nies men who owned a plow had a strong
team and went about the country plowing
for farmers as they do at this day with ditch-
ing machines. Then it took one man to
drive, one to hold the plow, and one to bear
on the beam.
	ALABAMA iron is shipped to Charleston
and thence to England. Upon this change
of affairs the Montgomery "Advertiser" re-
marks: "This is reversing the tide. It was
but a few years ago that England supplied
the Western world with iron. Henceforth
the mistress of the sea' must look up to us
for the all-important commodity."
	THE Toledo "Journal" thus sums the mat-
ter up: "If the ballot can be rightfully
withheld from woman, it can be from the
poor man. If from the poor man, then also
from the uneducated man. If from the un-
educated man, then also from the common
people. If from the common people, then
also from the aristocratic classes. If from
the aristocratic classes, then the king does
indeed rule by divine right, and republics
are the biggest humbugs of the age."
	THE New York "Times" makes an elabor-
ate review of the labor market, its condi-
tions and prospects, and concludes therefrom
that trades are not so languishing as at this
time in several past years. The number of
unskilled laborers is large, as is always the
case. Working women are found to have
as dull prospects before them as any class,
and for these the consideration of the chari-
tably disposed is bespoken. Altogether the
situation is considered far from discourag-
ing.


AN ingenious little culinary implement
was lately shown in Paris at the Exposition
of Gastronomic Products—a novel gridiron
and baking oven all in one. It consists of
an oblong quadrangular sheetiron box, open
at the top and at one end, and standing on
four feet. The top has a netting of iron
wire stretched over it, and on this glowing
charcoal is placed. A gridiron slides in at
the open end under the fire. The juices and
melted fats of the meat, poultry, fish, etc.,
drop into a pan beneath the gridiron, and
no disagreeable odors of burning grease are
given out. No ashes sift through the wire
network on the meet below, unless the fire
is stirred. When it becomes necessary to
meddle with the fire, the gridiron is to
be removed for a moment and then re-
placed. The heat of the fire may at the
same time be employed for the purpose of
boiling water in a pot or kettle, set upon
some sort of stand over the fire.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.

	A WOMAN is generally more economical
than a man, because her "waist is small-
er.
	A CALIFORNIA compositor made an edi-
tor say about a contemporary that it stood
"in the front rank of inferior journals."
	MRS. Partington reading of the strike of
the wire drawers, remarked: "Ah, me!
what new fangled things won't they wear
next.
	AN Irishman returned from his travels
gallantly compared his landlady to Vesuvi-
us, because "she was a fine old crater."
	"THE honeymoon is well enough," said a
prudent belle "but what I want to see be-
yond that is the promise of a fine harvest-
moon.
	AS to the familiar problem—What is
home without a mother?—a Brooklyn boy
says that it is a very pleasant place provided
she leaves the key of the pantry behind
her.
	"PAPA, are you growing taller all the
time?" "No, my child; why do you ask"
"'Cause the top of your head is poking 
through your hair.
	THE name "Kalakaua," King of the
Sandwich Islands, is pronounced Kollow-
kow-ah but some pronounce it Calico, and
others Kill-a-crow.
	WE are told that the smallest hair throws
a shadow. Of course it does, it throws a
shadow over your appetite when you find
it in your victuals.
	THERE is still another point in favor of
narrow-gauge railroads. When the locomo-
tive runs over a man two-thirds of the
body is left in good shape for identification.
	IN summing up the household necessa-
ries, a young husband asked, "Now what
portion are you to find?" "I'll find the
fault" replied the animated wife.
	ALBANI never speaks aloud on the days
preceding the nights when she is adver-
tized to sing, and in various other respects
she is highly calculated to make some man
happy in the domestic circle.
	PEDAGOGUE:—First little boy, what is
your name?" Little boy—"Jule." Peda-
gogue—"Oh, no; your name is Julius.
Second little boy, what is yours?" Second
little boy—"My name is Billious."
	A DALLAS man is so extremely verdant
as to advertise for a lost umbrella—inno-
cently supposing it was taken by mistake.
Such faith in human nature is inexpress-
ively touching considering the state of the
weather.
	A LADY went into a carpet store recently
and pointing out a carpet asked the proprie-
tor what it was. "Brussels," says the pro-
prietor. "Brussels," quoth the lady, pass-
ing her hand over it, "Seems to me the
brustles don't stick up much."
	"BOY," said a traveler to a disobedient
youth whom he encountered, "don't you
hear your father speaking to to you?" "Oh,
y-a-a-s," replied the youth. "But I don't
mind what he says. Mother don't neither,
and twixt she and I, we'ev about got the
dog so he don't.
	IN one of the Cape Cod towns, a young
scholar, the first day at school, was asked
her name by the teacher, and replied. Her
father's name was the next question, and
she did not know his first name. The

[Column 2]
teacher then asked her, "What does your
mother call him?" "You Jackass!" said
the child.
	YOUNG lady picks up the morning paper
and reads advertisement: "A splendid assort-
ment of ladies' corsets just opened at"—She
throws the paper down in disgust. "Yes
they must have been a splended assortment
of ladies that would go down there to have
their corsets opened! They ought to be
sent to prison, they and the rascals too!"
Excuse young lady, she was at a party last
night, and it didn't close till four.


A GOOD MOTHER.

	Sometimes one hears of a good wife and
mother, that “she’s a regular home body.”
The phrase is simple, but what a world of en-
nobling qualities it indicates, and what a uni-
verse of frivolity it excludes! The matronly
home body is indeed “Heaven’s best gift to
man.” Dashing ladies, whose mission it is to
set the fashions, won’t you look in upon your
gentle sister as she sits in her well ordered nur-
sery, making her children happy with her pre-
sence? Note how she adjusts their little diffi-
culties, and admonishes, encourages, instructs
or amuses them as may be. Do you think any
nurse maid could produce such harmony in
their little circle? Is she not an enchantress?
Verily, yes, and her charm is “Love stronger
than death” for those sweet faces, where you
may see her smiles or frowns (though she sel-
dom has occasion to frown) reflected in glee and
sorrow, like sunlight and cloud shadow in a
quiet pool. What she is, she will teach her
daughters to be; and blessed are the sons who
have such a mother.


﻿MRS. J. A. Judd a well known milliner
of Norwalk, Ct., was found dying from th e
effects of laudanum, on a bed in her store,
and a note on a stand; gave a reason for the
act, that she had been ‘'troubled without
measure, during a life of many years.”
She was observed to be very low spirited on
Saturday, and she is supposed to have ta-
ken the dose some time during Sunday
night. The store was not opened on Mon-
day, and it was not till Tuesday night that
she died. She was formerly the wife of
Rev. Dr. Orrin B. Judd of Norwalk, but
got a divorce from him, after a long suit,
which exhausted her means, and these
troubles, together with the fact that the
custody of their three children was given
to the husband, were a part of the burden
of her life. She was 52 years old.


Under the new constitution the married
women of Illinois enjoy many special priv-
ileges not allowed them in other States, ex-
cepting Michigan and Nevada. They can
sue or be sued in their own names, have
custody of children when deserted by their
husbands; can make examples of their re-
fractory lords in the courts; can manage
their husbands’ property absolutely if they
remain out of the State a year, or get into
the penitentiary; can direct any business
independently except in a case of partner-
ship, which she cannot enter without her
husband’s consent: and can possess, acquire
and sell real estate as freely as though she
were one of the “lords of creation.” The
wife is not liable for debts incurred by the
husband before marriage, and only in ex-
ceptional cases for those contracted after-
wards; neither are her earnings to be
touched by her husband or his creditors.


THE manufacturers of glass bottles claim
for their business the unenviable distinction
of being at present the dullest and most un-
remunerative of all branches of manufac-
tures.


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,

				GO TO 
			MRS. C. E. DYE'S,
			19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES' & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
			Of the Latest Style.
	Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.

		EVERY DESCRIPTION 
				OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.
				--
	Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
				--
			Large Assortment of 
	CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
				--
		Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
				--
			H. E. PHELPS, 
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
	FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies 
to purchase.

			CLUB RATES.
				--
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club,	-	-	-	-	-	 26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
 Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.

VOL. 3. 				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1875.		NO. 17﻿


EDUCATE THE GIRLS.

	Give our girls good, thorough, practical
educations. Whatever they are set to study,
cncourage them to learn, and furnish them
with the means of learning, as though the
knowledge they acquire were to be put to
practical use.
	Every young lady should consider for her-
self that there is no knowing what may
happen in this country; and while she
adorns her mind and her deportment with
those graces which may serve her in the
highest station, and which are never out of
place even in the lowest, she should try to
prepare herself in other ways to meet any
and all changes in fortune, be they good or
ill.
	It cannot be denied that, in many depart-
ments, woman's wages are inadequate to the
amount of her labor. But it is because the
standard of her labor has been degraded by
the incompetency and unreliability of the 
many; and the excellent few have been
made to suffer in consequence. Raise the
standard of excellence by adopting a plan of
education which shall increase the number
of accomplished and reliable workwomen in
all branches of employment, and there can
be but little doubt that wages will rise in
proportion.


﻿WOMAN'S APPRECIATION OF
	WOMAN’S BEAUTY.
	*	*	*	*	*	Men—even the
wisest of them—are very easily duped by
little artifices of dress and adornment by
which women seek to beautify themselves
(for the masculine eye, shall I say?) and a
woman thus "gotten up" would rather face
a regiment of men than the scrutinizing
eye of one keen-eyed woman. For she
knows full well that her abundant locks,
her soft pearly complexion, with just the
suspicion of bloom on the cheeks, the round
waist and well developed bust, will no more
deceive that woman than a coarse clay
model will be mistaken for Parian by the
true artist.
	No, if one woman excites the admiration
of another, by her beauty, the male critic
may generally make up his mind that the
beauty under contemplation is genuine,
and no sham.
	In the street cars, on the ferry boat, in
the street, and at church, the face of a
lovely woman will excite more genuine ad-
miration in one of her own sex than in that
of the opposite; for to the true artist mind
a beautiful human being is like a flower, a
lovely landscape, a rare gem, a painting or
a statue, a subject for sincere admiration
and not one to engender envy or jealous
feelings. It is not true, then, that women
as a rule are envious of each other's beauty,
the assertion of man to the contrary not-
withstanding.—"Golden Dawn."


MR. H. F. Durant has spent $1,000,000
on building a college exclusively for the fe-
male sex near Natick, Mass. "Every officer
and teacher in the institute, from the Presi-
dent down to Professor, and downwards, is
to be a woman."


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Fellows, the wife of the Mayor of
Camden, Arkansas, shot a drunken man
three times, last Saturday, for assailing
her.
	Mrs. Marshall, of Dubuque Iowa, has re-
ceived $2,250 for 18,000 quarts of strawber-
ries she raised last season, from three and a
half acres of ground.
	Mrs. Anna R. Evans, of Fort Dodge,
Iowa has sued nineteen saloon keepers and
owners, asking $10,000 damages for making
her husband a drunkard.
	MADAME Yoshida, wife of the new Japa-
nese minister at Washington, has engaged
a French mantua-maker, and an English
ladies' maid, as she intends to  "go into so-
ciety."
	LIZZIE Chase Huchinson, wife of Asa B.
Huchinson of the famous family of singers,
died recently in Rushford, Minnesota,
while engaged in delivering a lecture on
Temporance.
	MISS Mathilde E. Toedt, the young vio-
linist, has achieved a great triumph in gain-
ing in competitive examination the first
position in a class of over thirty pupils, all
men except herself.
	Mrs. Caroline Hardy of Groveland, Mass.,
who has been deaf for years, had her hear-
ing restored recently by a blow upon the
ear from the leg of a chair which one of the
children had tipped over..	
	THE Princess Beatrice is described as very
sharp-witted, rather shrewish in disposition
and an inverterate stickler for all the privi-
leges of her rank. She insists upon taking
precedence of the Duchess of Edinburgh,
and she does it.
	MRS. Bingham of Boston, who for several
years has edited the Ladies’ Repository, and
has done much other literary work in con-
nection with the Universalist denomination,
has retired temporarily from the paper on
account of ill health, and will soon go on a
visit to Wisconsin.
	MRS. John J. Aston, of New York, had a
special interest in the intercollegiate con-
test of January 7, and gave five hundred
dollars for the prizes. She was earnestly
desirous that the students should receive
such encouragement as would tend to estab-
lish an annually recurring intercollegiate
competition.
	THERE is a woman, sixty years old, or
more, at Hartford, who, having worked all
her life for one dollar a week and her board,
has saved between $6,000 and $7,000. She
cannot be induced to make her will, as she
fears she would be sure to die if she made
such preparations for death; and, as she has
no relatives, it is a question what will be-
come of her property.
	MARIA Vogtlin, M. D., who graduated
last spring, in Zurich, after a brilliantly sus-
tained examination, has settled there as a
practitioner in diseases of women and chil-
dren, and has already obtained an extensive
practice. She is now the wife of Dr. Helm,
one of the professors in the faculty of medi-

[Column2]
cine at Zurich. Thus women doctors are
meeting with success in Switzerland.
	ELIZABETH Cady Stanton, in the Golden
Age, asks: "Should any man of common
sense expect a class of American citizens,
who are taxed without representation, de-
nied the right of trial by jury, forbidden to
enter our colleges, compelled to teach school
at starvation wages, and snubbed generally
and everywhere, to feel cheerful, good-tem-
pered, and full of fun in the nursery?"


KEEP YOUR PROMISE.—A boy borrowed
a tool from a carpenter, promising to return
it at night. Before evening he was sent on
an errand, and did not return till late. Be-
fore he went, he was told that his brother
should see the article returned.
	After he had come and gone to bed, he in-
quired, and found that the tool had not been
sent to the owner. He was much distressed
to think his promise had not been kept,
but was persuaded to go to sleep, and rise
early and carry it home the next morn-
ing.
	By daylight he was up, and nowhere was
the tool to be found. After a long and fruit-
less search, he set off for his neighbor’s in
great distress to acknowledge his fault. But
how great was his surprise to find the tool
on his neighbor’s doorstep! And then it
appeared from the print of his little bare
feet in the mud, that he had got up in his
sleep and carried the tool home, and gone
to bed again without knowing it.
	Of course a boy who was prompt in his
sleep was prompt when awake. He lived
respected, had the confidence of his neigh-
bors, and was put in many offices of trust
and profit.
	If all the grown folks felt as this boy did,
there would be found a great many tracks of
bare feet found some of these bright morn-
ings; and what piles of tools and books
would be found lying at their owners’ doors
—Phren Journal.


The Poetical and Practical.—Miss Wordsworth,
sister to the poet, was passing through a wood
which the stock-dove was filling with his soft music
when she fell in with a countrywoman, who ex-
claimed, “I am so fond of the stock doves." "Oh!"
thought Miss Wordsworth, “at last I have come
on one of Nature’s poets with a soul to appreciate
the beautiful music of the birds.” Very ruth-
lessly was the dream disenchanted by an explana-
tory remark of the woman—"Some likes 'em in
pies and some likes 'em roasted; but for my part
I think there’s nothing like ’em stewed with
onions!”


A Washington special says: "The only two
cabinet officials who are holding along to their
business, evidently ignorant of the fact that this is
the last session in which the Republican party is
to peddle patronage, are Bristow and Jewell.
They are conducting the severe business of their
respective departments with fidelity, exactnesss,
and common sense. I have not heard of anybody
who loves either of them, but they are held in
wholesome respect in every corner of the treasury
and postoffice buildings."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT

TO MRS. E. A. WHITNEY, ON HER SEVENTY
		FOURTH BIRTHDAY.

Mother in Israel, honored most, and best!
Of Saint, or woman, all the noblest traits possessed;
A mind and heart, innately pure, chaste and refined,
Such as Dame Nature scarcely ever has combined;
Sound in thy judgment, in thy faith firm and sincere,
In womanly perfection, almost, without a peer.
Under the prophet's hand ordained, and set apart,
To bless, to counsel, and instruction to impart
To all, who in humility, thy blessing seek,
To comfort those who mourn, strengthen the weak.
Thy words are precious, and should cherished be,
As pearls of wisdom, rich with grace and charity;
Within thy soul, a clear and living foutain flows.
Diffusing light and peace, content and calm repose.
Yet through afflictions dark and deep, thy path has lain.
Thy bosom hath been pierced, with keenest, sharpest pain.
And thou, in meekness, patience, and the fear of God,
Acknowledged still His hand, beneath the chastening rod;
Trusting the promise, by revelation given,
A testimony unto thee, of thy reward in heaven.
A widow, many long and lonely years, hast been,
Protected, strengthened, comforted by the "Unseen;"
Whose hand has led thee, and Whose voice is clear;
Who to the widow's prayer; still lends a listening ear;
Thy hands have ministered unto the prophet's need,
In days when friends were few, and thou, a friend indeed;
Raised up, inspired as it were, to help in ushering forth
Those principles, which in their embryo and birth,
Struggled against tradition, and the creeds of men,
At fearful odds; to bring the priesthood back again.
Honored forever be thy name, for truest worth;
And hallowed the propitious day, that gave thee birth,
Where'er thy name is known, they speak thy praise;
All womankind should strive to emulate thy ways.
A christian true art thou, in thought, in word, in deed,
Yet for the weak and erring, thy soul would pitying plead;
Forgetful of self, thou feelest another's woe,
And with a bounteous hand doth charity bestow;
Thy virtues bright shall shine in an immortal wreath
Crowning thee victor, even at the gates of death.
Blessings upon thy head, thou more than mother here,
Teacher and friend to me most truly, near and dear.
Our hearts desire for thee, more than we can express,
Long life, true joy, and an eternal happiness,
With thy belov'd companion, who has gone before
And waits to welcome thee to that immortal shore;
Forever re-united in those close and tender bonds,
Where soul to soul congenial corresponds.
Of joy and rapture sweet, to count thy sufferings o'er,
Where love eternal dwells, and partings are no more.
	Dec. 26th, 1874.						B. B.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
			 ——
 	WEST WEBER, January 10th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
   I have thought many times I should like
to write a letter for your columns. I con-
sider our little paper truthfully a valuable
instructor, for I have received many good
things through reading it. I wish that all
my sisters could realize this as some of us
do, and the paper would have a larger cir-
culation. But we must do the best we can,
and always hope for the best. We have a
good Relief Society here composed of sixty-
six members. I am happy to say that the
sisters are now alive to their duties more
than ever. We have excellent meetings,
in which the spirit of the Lord is enjoyed.
We are continually desirous of adding our
mites towards building the Temple of the
Lord, for many of us begin to realize that
we are daily growing older instead of
younger; therefore we are anxious to see
the Temple finished, that the blessings
which have been promised may be fulfilled.
Our settlement has passed through many
hardships, but I think the cloud is passing
by. The President, Elder John L. Hart, of-
ten attends our meetings and encourages us
with his kind fatherly advice and words of
cheer. President Mrs. Mary Douglas is
very diligent in looking after the needy,
causing many to rejoice and gaining the
prayers and blessings of the poor.
   With many kind wishes, I am your sister
in the Gospel,				P. S. HART.

[Column 2]
	MARRIOTSVILLE, WEBER COUNTY
				U. T. January 10th 1875.
EDITOR OF WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
   I send you a few items relative to the
Relief Society of this place. Through the
efforts of the President, her counselors and
the teachers, about forty dollars have been
raised as a donation to the Temple. The
meetings which are held alternately every
two weeks at this place and Lynne are well
attended and a good spirit prevails—the
Young Ladies' meetings are also well at-
tended.—On the 18th of last month, we
were favored with a visit from Sisters E.
R. Snow of Salt Lake City and—Clark of
Farmington, Davis Co. accompanied by
Sisters Jane Richards and Sarah L. Herrick
of Ogden City.—They all spoke feelingly
and encouragingly to us. Sister E. R.
Snow's remarks were especially able and in-
structive. They were followed by a few
encouraging remarks by Prest. F. D. Rich-
ards. 
   We remain yours truly,
		     ANN BICKINGTON Prest. 
		      CATHERINE PARRY, Secy.
				——
  FIRST WARD, S. L. City, Jan. 11th, 1875
DEAR EDITOR:—
   The Young Ladies Association of the
First Ward, was organized April 2nd, 1874.
Miss E. R. Snow was present, and instructed
us concerning our positions as members of the
Society and as children of the Latter-day
Saints. Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. How-
ard also spoke encouragingly to us, and
Bishop Warburton blessed us, and the Sis-
ters in their traveling from place to place to
do good. Mrs. Sarah Graham was chosen
as President, of the Young Ladies' Associa-
tion; and for counselors, Mrs. A. Campbell,
Mrs. G. Cuthbert, Mrs. E. Hill, Mrs. M.
Hawkins, Mrs. E. Chase, and Mrs. J. Van-
Tassel; Miss S. R. Smith was chosen for Secre-
tary and Miss A. Adams assistant Secretary.
Twenty-four young ladies then joined as
members. We can realize that the organi-
zation has been a great blessing to us and
that we are constantly improving. On the
6th inst., we had an excellent meeting at
Sister Margaret Steel's. The girls are over-
coming their timidity, and many of them
are able to bear noble testimonies to the
truth. We appreciate your worthy efforts
and wish you great success.
		MRS. S. GRAHAM, President,
		 MISS S. R. SMITH, Secretary.
				——
   Last fall Miss Snow, assisted by Mrs. Zina
 D. Young, Mrs. Howard and Mrs. Grant,
established a branch of the Young Ladies'
Association in Grantsville, under the presi-
dency of Miss Rachel Hale and superinten-
dence of Mrs. Mary Cook. Having a little
time to spare, I attended their last meeting.
It was a very pleasant sight, so many young
ladies meeting together for mutual improve-
ment. There seemed to exist among them
no element of discord; each desirous of
gaining and giving. The harmony seemed
perfect, so much so as to astonish me. If
they go on as they have commenced, they
soon will be a powerful element for good in
Grantsville. One of the Counselors expressed
her wish for more union and greater efforts
for improvement, and her words seemed
the sentiments of every heart present.
There were readings from the EXPONENT
and questions and answers from the Cate-
chism in the "Juvenile Instructor." Some
of the readings were well rendered. A
poem by elder P. P. Pratt on attaining the
fiftieth anniversary of his birthday, and an-
swer by Elder John Taylor were well re-
cited by two very young ladies. In such

[Column 3]
meetings can be seen how much of intellect
the young ladies possess. And it will be
seen by an impartial observer at a glance,
they fully equal the young gentlemen in
keen bright intelligence; and when they
join to this the determination to do right,
they, (the young ladies) can do very much
towards making this earth a heaven. And
if all the young ladies' organizations are
growing like this one, the young gentlemen
will have to bestir themselves, or be left in
the back grounds.				MARY.
   Grantsville, Jan. 1875.
				——
			S. L. CITY, Jan. 27th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
   The Juvenile Relief Society of the 17th
Ward was organized Sept. 17th, 1873, by
Miss E. R. Snow,with the following officers.
President, Emerett Brown; Counselors, Liz-
zie Jacques and Mary Davis; Treasurer,
Melvia Calder; Secretary, Edith Smith. At
the organization, there were present, Sister
Higgs and Sister Howe, who were appoin-
ted Superintendent and assistant Superin-
tendent. We have meetings every other
week, which are well attended by the Young
Ladies, all of whom take an active part in
aiding the progress of the Society. At our
first annual meeting, which took place on
the 17th day of Sept., 1874, we had a very
good time and were blessed with good in-
structions from Sister Hyde, Sister Howe,
Sister Horne and others.
		Yours Truly,
		  EMERETT BROWN, President.
			EDITH SMITH, Secretary.
			   ——
   The second annual meeting of the 10th
Ward Young Ladies'Retrenchment Associa-
tion, was held in the new Meeting house,
agreeable to adjournment, on the 8th of Jan.,
1875. Opened by singing, "O give me
back my Prophet dear." Prayer by Br. S.
B. Smith. Singing, "May we who know
the joyful sound." Minutes of previous
meeting were read and accepted.
   President Mrs. M. J. Pearce arose and
made a few introductory remarks, after
which Sister E. R. Snow arose and said:—
"The house of God is a house of order—by
invitation from the president of the Young
Ladies' Association, I arise and speak to you
my sisters, and that I may speak so as to
benefit you, I wish your faith and prayers.
While looking around this Hall, so beauti-
fully decorated, I feel as though the angels
of God must like to be here if the hearts of
the people are fit to receive them. The
Spirit of God is in our midst, and I feel as
though His angels were here. I was pleased
to hear that the young men have organized
into a Deacon's Quorum. Literary Associa-
tions are good in their way, but it is spirit-
ual culture, spiritual food the young want.
You are to fit and prepare yourselves to fill
high positions in the Kingdom of God; does
the education of the world prepare you for
this? does it prepare you to associate in the
holy Order of the house of God? No! It
only fits you to be ornaments in Babylon.
In our young ladies' retrenchment associa-
tion, we have little girls who get up and tes-
tify that this is the kingdom of God. Does
the literature of the world prompt this? No!
I think not. When the young ladies began
to organize these associations there were
many elderly people so kind as to ask, 'What
is the use of the young ladies meeting to-
gether to speak and pray?' I replied, 'what
is the use of any of us meeting together?'
The Lord says where there are a few gath-
ered together in His name there will He be
also, in their midst, and that to bless them.
In Ogden the young gentlemen and ladies


[Column 1]
hold their meetings together. I like this
idea; it helps them to overcome a great deal
of embarrassment, and those who attend
the meetings most regularly will make the
best men and women. The young ladies have
made resolutions not to associate with any
of the young men who drink, smoke, &c.
The young men are also getting up resolu-
tions. I see the result, it is to purify and
exalt them. And they will know better
who to choose as husbands and wives. I as-
sure you, my young sisters, that this great
work cannot be accomplished without wo-
men! and it is for us to be up and doing.
Do not indulge in any gross language or
manners or any vulgarity before your
children; the rising generation is to bear off
this kingdom, and the young men are to be
pillars in the same. I am thankful that the
current has turned heavenward, that they
may be saviors on Mount Zion. The time is
fast approaching when angels will visit the
earth, yes, the time is near and who shall be
prepared? It will be these young people
who are stepping forward and are willing to
serve God and keep His commandments.
Again I say God bless you my sisters."
	Sister Zina D. Young said: "The subject
of prayer is something for us to reflect upon.
When one prays, if each one of us would
repeat in our hearts the words that are spoken
and then say amen, it has a power which
reaches within the vail. Jesus came to this
world and gave us each the privilege of
wearing a crown; how beautiful to think of!
The treasure is priceless. It is the privilege
of the Saints to find balm for every wound.
A mother may forget her infant, but God
will not forget Israel. When I look around
and see these grand mountains and peaceful
valleys, I think how kind He was to give
them to us; but it was not without going
through trouble. Sisters take care of your
health and you will not only benefit your-
selves but also future generations. When
you are sick and afflicted have faith and you
will recover. The book of Doctrine and
Covenants says "The Lord will come when
the faith of the Saints is sufficient."
	Sister M. I. Horne made remarks—"I knew
the Spirit of God was here when I entered
the room. The decorations are beautiful and
the young ladies of the 10th Ward have be-
gun the New Year very well by inviting
their elder sisters to their meeting. We
can speak on different subjects and it does
not make the meeting monotonous, but it all
tends to the same end. You, young ladies,
have great responsibilities to fulfill, and it is
for you to prepare yourselves for such. The
men are called to one part of this great vine-
yard and the women to another; but is the
woman's part less honorable? I think not.
The young have not been restrained enough
in times past. They have been allowed to
grow up in a reckless manner, and it is for
the mothers in Israel to teach and guide
them, and draw their children towards
them, and gain their confidence. My young
sisters be like Mary of old, and choose the
better part; follow not in the way of the
Gentiles, but strive to live pure and holy
before God. Jesus says, "If ye love me
keep my commandments;" and although
you may have to go through great trials, it
is only to make you more steadfast, for
everything that can be shaken will be sha-
ken. It is for us to first seek the kingdom
of God and His righteousness and all other
things will be added unto us.
	Sister M. P. Young then made some ex-
cellent remarks; after which Sister East
arose and wished all present a Happy New
Year, and said she felt inspired to give
thanks that we are the happy recipients of

[Column 2]
the spiritual feast received this afternoon.
After making some good remarks in refer
ence to health and its laws, she concluded
with saying that God had called Israel from
the East, West, North and South and estab-
lished His kingdom never more to be thrown
down. The Pioneers of the church are
passing away, and the rising generation are
to improve themselves that they may be far-
ther advanced, for there is no stand still to
the kingdom of God.
	Sister Mary Freeze bore a faithful testimo-
ny, after which Sister Barney made appro-
priate remarks on the duties of mothers, and
concluded with saying that this is the wind-
ing up scene and it will not be long before
the dividing line will be drawn.
	Bro. Samuel B. Smith read an original
essay entitled "Pride," which was followed
by testimonies from a number of the breth-
ren present, that they felt to endorse all thatthe sisters had said.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing "We thank Thee O God for a Prophet,"
Benediction by Bro. Wm. Poll.
				M. H. Paul, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WILD FLOWERS AND NATIVE
			PLANTS.

	The native flora of this mountain region
is rich, beyond the conception of those who
pass through the vallies and over the hills
and mountains unobserving and carelessly.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Our interesting plants are so numerous,
and each bringing its own peculiar interest,
or loveliness, makes it almost sacrilage to
name a few in preference to the scores
equally meritorious; and we should be as
prone to leave the most rare and desired un-
mentioned, as to satisfy a majority of flor-
ists that we have selected the most worthy;
but we will note a few that to our unpro-
fessional eye appears most magnificent and
beautiful.
		YUCCA BREVIFOLIA
forms a tree often from twelve to twenty
feet high, forming a curiously wrought
head of branches and short leaves, and in
June, a magnificent head of white bloom
appears from twelve to twenty-four inches
long, followed by a good sized fruit that
bears the seed.
		YUCCA BACCATA
forms a stool from five to eight feet across,
with long fleshy leaves, and in May sends
up flower stems from four to seven feet
high, having a profusion of huge lily-shaped,
wax like flowers, whose beauty and sweet-
ness makes it worthy the boudoir of a prin-
cess.
		DALEA JOHNSONII,
a shrub growing upon sand and clay land,
four feet high, covered in May with long
racemes of pea shaped bloom, of intense
bright blue, producing upon a lawn or in a
garden a charming effect.
		PENSTEMONS.
Of this family of plants there are a great
variety; ranging in color from the fragrant
white to the intensely bright scarlet, whose
bloom, resembling the fuchsia, droops in na-
tive modesty among the rocks and preci-
pices.
		OF CACTUS,
the great variety would make an extended
list, with wonderful diversity of size, shape
and beauty of bloom, from the delicate
Mammalaria Phellosperma to the huge Cere-
us Le Contir, often growing a foot or more
in diameter and five or six feet high, cov-
ered with six inch spines; or opuntia ech-
inocarpa, that forms a tree of no inconsider-

[Column 2]
able size and producing abundance of green-
ish yellow bloom, from its branching, tree
like top.—Another unnamed variety opens a
profusion of bloom each day at precisely the
hour of twelve. The Cereas Engelmanii, a
new vareity, is among the most charming
of blooming cactus and the Echinocactus
Johnsonii is a bristling, new, strange and
rare sort.
		OENOTHERA
also abound in great variety. Two dwarfs,
yellow and white, their bloom daily (or
nightly) appears for weeks, the flowers
opening with a whiff and a crash instanta-
neously just after sunset; a most remarkable
plant, yielding much amusement for the
curious watcher. The dwarfs are new
varieties, Oenethera Johnsonii Parry.
		CHILOPLIS LINEARIS.
	An entirely new variety of Catalpa.
Shrubbry tree, 15 to 20 feet high loaded
with pendent racemes of tri-colored bloom,
foliage long and narrow, branches long and
slender, and having the appearance of a
handsome willow, weeping with a load of
showy blossoms—seed pod size of a goose
quill, and a foot long.
	CALOCHORTUS FLEXUOSUS.
	A most lovely, wax-like, tulipshaped tir-
colored lilly-like blossom, from a bulb, edi-
ble and sweet as a nut. Flower stem 6 - 12
inches high.
		LARREA MEXICANA.
A beautiful evergreen, a shrub 4 to 8 feet
high; bright yellow bloom in June, emitting
a powerful perfume resembling Iodine. Fo-
liage glossy and fernlike. A very noticea-
ble and desirable shrub.
	MALVASTRUM DODINEUM.
	Perennial, from 1 to 2 feet high flowers
delicate scarlet, profusely laden in June.
Very showy and beautiful.
			Licium———?
A shrub about four feet high, highly laden
in June with scarlet berries, sweet and rich,
about the size of a currant, nice for dry-
ing.
		AGAVE UTAHENSE,
a new plant with thick, short, spikey leaves
and flower stalks ten or twelve feet high,
bulb edible, rich and sweet. And so we
might go on with enumeration, and cover a
quire of fools-cap, but our limits forbid for
the present, but will simply add, that a com-
plete collection of only the smaller plants,
leaving out the new and beautiful evergreen
trees and shrubs, would form a garden of
princely beauty and grace, vieing with the
best gardens of the East.—"Utah Pomolog-
ist."


"Never be ashamed to apologize when you
have done wrong in domestic affairs," says
an eminent divine. "Let that be a law of
your household. The best thing I ever
heard of my grandfather, whom I never saw
was this: that once having unrighteously
rebuked one of his children, he himself—
having lost his patience, and perhaps been
misinformed of the child's doings— found
out his mistake, and in the evening of the
same day gathered all his family together
and said, 'Now I have one explanation to
make and one thing to say. Thomas, this
morning I rebuked you in the presence of
the whole family, and now I ask your for-
giveness in their presence.' It must have
taken some courage to do that. It was
right, was it not? Never be ashamed to
apologize for domestic inaccuracy.


CAN you spell consent in three letters?
Y-e-s.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA M. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place.  Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1875


AN ADDRESS.
TO THE JUVENILE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE
		17TH WARD.	BY M. E. KIMBALL.
	It affords me great pleasure to meet with
the young people of this Society, for two
reasons. One is, their object and aim are
laudable and a great credit to them; the
other because their parents are among the
best people I ever knew. I believe I am ac-
quainted with the parents of all who are in
this room to-day; and when they know of
your seeking wisdom from the fountain of
intelligence, even our Heavenly Father,
you cause their hearts to rejoice. I know
you enjoy yourselves better in pursuing a
course to develop the abilities God has given
you, than in an opposite course. I believe
to improve our talents and our time as God
assigned. For his designs and purposes are
much greater than ours, and will result in
greater good to ourselves, if we learn and
follow them. While I see your nimble fin-
gers at work, so cheerfully making clothing
for those who are needy and destitute of
the comforts of life, I feel to say God bless
you. And He will bless all such, for this is
keeping His commandments; and I know
that light and joy and peace will accompany
the effort if it is done in sincerity of heart.
The Prophet Alma in the Book of Mormon
speaks of charity accompanied with humility,
as one of the greatest gifts of the gospel.
In the first place, we should feel our weak-
ness, and dependence upon our Heavenly
Father, and ask His blessing upon all that
we do. He says; "Pray three times a day."
And again, "Pray in secret." Knowing that
our success depends upon His blessing, this
is humility. But after this, if we neglect to
impart of our substance to the poor and
needy; and visit not the sick and the afflic-
ted, and impart not of our substance to those
who are in need, "I say unto you if you do
not these things behold your prayer is vain
and availeth you nothing; ye are as hypo-
crites who deny the faith; therefore if ye
do not remember to be charitable, ye are as
dross which the refiners cast out." And
again, the Apostle James (in the New Testa-
ment) says, "Religion pure and undefiled
before God and the Father is this, to visit
the widow and the fatherless in their afflc-
tions, and keep yourself unspotted from the
world." Yet you will frequently hear per-
sons say such a one is "too religious." When
I hear this I think they do not mean what
they say; but expect us to qualify the say-
ing for them in this way. They wish to see
a consistent kind of religion; in reality, a
fullness, not lacking in any point, for work
done by halves is never well done. Allow
me, my young friends, to entreat you not to
be too self-willed or conceited to listen to
your parents or guardians; for remember
there is a promise to those who obey their
parents in the Lord. "Thou shalt live long
in the land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee." Let our first object be to honor the
Father of our spirits, as a duty we owe Him,
knowing that His laws are for our greatest
good. And again, to honor our parents will
make us happy as well as them. In observ-
ing these rules, you will fill your positions
nobly upon the earth, and attain to a degree
of happiness which this world can not give
or take from you. That you may attain to
this is the sincere prayer of your sister in
the gospel.


THE circulation of the London Daily Tel-
e graph from January 1 to October 31, 1874,
inclusive, averaged 176,174 copies a day.


MRS. BENEDICT.

	Mrs. Phebe Benedict, of Antioch, Cal.,
has solved the question, "What can Woman
Do?" Some two years since she took out
papers as sole trader, gained the consent of
her husband to allow her complete manage-
ment of the farm and transact all the busi-
ness of the place, and at a time when the
farm was mortgaged for several hundred
dollars, and farming implements out of re-
pair. Now, by economy, close attention to
business and shrewd management, she has
paid off the mortgage and interest, purchased
a new cultivator, plows and other imple-
ments, treated herself to a sewing machine,
repaired the buildings, and will shortly loan
money; and Mrs. Benedict is, beside this, a
leading advocate of suffrage for women.


MAKE YOURSELF USEFUL.

	It is an unquestionable fact, that capacity of-
ten fits one person for a position that could not be
sustained by another. Capacity also qualifies
almost any person, for filling some position or
accomplishing some work more successfully
than anything else that might be undertaken.
	In consideration of these principles, it is the
duty of every individual to seek, understand-
ingly, to know the proper course to pursue, the
right place to occupy, the best thing to do in
order that the greatest amount of good may be
accomplished with the least waste of time and
expense.
	Sometimes we have heard such remarks as
"I have no forte, I do not think I was designed
to excel in anything." "I don't believe I was
blest with any gift whatever, or that I possess
ability for anything." I have tried nearly all
kinds of work, and do not like any one of
them.” These are but fanciful ideas, having
no foundation in truth, if the individual is real-
ly desirous of benefiting the world, friends or
self. 
	Even if circumstances seem to conflict in
every attempt, and disappointments rather than
success are met on every hand for a time, there
is yet one course left which cannot fail if ear-
nestly and faithfully pursued. Man may have
erred in his own judgment; friends may have
misguided by kindly meant but injudicious ad-
vice; but if he asks of God, in faith, He will
not misrepresent things, but will give the re-
quired knowledge, and help to prepare the way
and person for the performance of some good
work.
	No one need be idle, though the immediate
duties presented may not seem just what would
best suit the disposition, or capacity, of the
seeker for employment. A better way than
giving up in disgust because of self-insufficien-
cy, because some one else can push ahead faster,
is to work with a will at whatever must be
done, or may be done, determined to be con-


science clear at least, having done all that was
possible, in the best possible manner according
to the means and abilities possessed. What-
ever art is learned well, fits mind or body the
more perfectly for the performance of some
other work—though the two may be entirely
unlike—and prepares the individual much more
than standing still would do, for the right posi-
tion when it is presented.
	Be of some use to the world, cultivate some
useful quality, learn to love useful employment
of whatever nature it may consist, and the time
will never drag, the hours never move wearily.


KISSING BABY.

	Our esteemed friend, Professor J. L. Barfoot
of the Salt Lake Museum, calls our attention
to an article on the subject of baby kissing,
which appeared in a late number of the "Sci-
entific American."
	The writer of the article delineates the evils
which are liable to arise from the habit, declares
the practice to be a pestilential one and says
farther, "Murderous would be the proper word,
did the kissers know the mischief they do."
	It appears that a slight cold or sore throat in
an adult, will be communicated to a child,
causing diptheria, with, too often, fatal results,
by the simple act of kissing.  The fact of this
statement, we consider too apparent to require
justification from our pen.  And that no surer
means of spreading contagions could be adopt-
ed than the mingling of breaths by kissing, is
a truth too commonly known to require any ex-
planation.  But we hope that more attention
and reflection will be given to this highly im-
portant subject, than has hitherto been mani-
fested.
	Think, mothers, of a man whose breath is
nauseous with tobacco or whiskey, coaxing
your infant son or daughter to kiss him! Many
such men have large hearts and great love for
children; but they should be taught that for
them to offer to kiss a child is an insult instead
of a compliment.
	Indeed, we are of the opinion, that to avoid
kissing the lips of children altogether, would
be sensible on the part of men and women.
How does a person know, though apparently in
perfect health—as not many people profess to
be nowadays—that the stronger and more pow-
erful breath of an adult may not be injurious
or at least disagreeable, if inhaled by the respi-
ration of a child?  Pleasant as it may be to ca-
ress and fondle the little ones, who would not
forgo the pleasure of kissing them for their own
sweet sakes?
	The writer in the "Scientific American,"
thus concludes the article: "A single kiss has
been known to infect a family; and the most
careful may be in condition to communicate
the disease (diptheria) without knowing it.
Beware then, of playing Judas, and let the ba.
bies alone."


THE PERAMBULATOR.

	Do not be without one. Nothing is better for
the baby or its mother than a walk out, in the
frest, pure air and merry sunshine. But there
is something much better for the mother, when
for a few brief moments she gets release from
the many cares and duties ever existing inside
the threshold of home, than carrying in her
arms a great, bouncing baby that wants to be
twisting about this way and that, to stare in
wonder at every object they pass, getting the
wind in its face and the wrappings off its feet.
And that something is the trundling of a per-
ambulator. We do not believe in unnecessary


household expenses, neither do we think that
unnecessary waste of strength is ever profita-
ble when the final result is proven. Therefore,
we would advise every mother who has a baby
to carry about to get a little carriage for the pur-
pose. If your husbands tell you their mothers
carried them without carriages until they were
able to walk, and they think you may do the
same with your children, remind them this
is an age of improvement. Tell them you
want to enjoy better health and raise stronger
and more perfect children than their mothers
and your mothers have done; and for this rea-
son you should be provided with every labor
saving, health promoting piece of machinery
that your circumstances will in any wise justi-
fy. Do without some other things that can
better be dispensed with, but as baby must be
cared for, let it be in the right way. Let moth-
ers take proper care of themselves, and the ba-
bies will not need half the attention that they
otherwise claim.
	Mr. Henry Dinwoodey of this city will fur-
nish you with any sort of a "baby carriage"
you wish to procure, at prices from thirteen to
twenty dollars. Mothers (or fathers) in the coun-
try, should make their babies rich enough to
ride in carriages, even if they cannot indulge
in such luxuries themselves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January,
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed
instead of at the place of delivery; and
have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the precinct of
this county.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	PEOPLE CALLING on business concerning the
EXPONENT, will oblige us by taking notice that
our published days for business, are Tuesdays
and Saturdays.
	THE TEACHERS of the University of Deseret
have been having an examination of its pupils.
Great satisfaction, with all concerned, as to the
progress made, is the result.
	THE NARROW gauge railroad will soon be ex-
tended from Ogden to this city.  There is no
lack of enterprise, force and determination in
our Utah railroad men; and their efforts to in-
crease the facilities for improvement throughout
the country are ever commendable.
	SEVERAL SNOWSLIDES have occurred in the
Cottonwood Kanyons within the past two
weeks, by two of which a number of persons
were killed.  On Tuesday, the 19th ult., at Al-
ta, in Little Cottonwood, two men, a woman
and two children were buried in an avalanche
and died before they could be extricated.  The
day following this mournful event, six men
met the same fate in Big Cottonwood Kanyon.
	IT IS a little surprising, after all that has been
published relative to anonymous correspon-
dence, that a St. George bachelor, who reads
and appreciates the EXPONENT, should send us
such a production, begging to be excused as he
"can only add to the initials Bachelor." We
only add that unless he sends us his name, we
cannot publish his article, which is, however,
an interesting one.
	A YOUNG lady who resides in Tooele city
called upon us one morning lately, when the

[Column 2]
weather was cold and blustering.  She was go-
ing home that day, and we remarked that the
journey would be somewhat tedious. "But I
shall go within fifteen miles of home on the
cars, and going so quickly does not seem at all
wearisome, like the old way of jogging along
all day in a wagon," was her pleasant reply.
It sounded very comfortable and made us think
again, that the people should highly appreciate
the labors of the hardy men who build the rail-
roads, as well as the enterprising spirit of the
contractors.
	KING KALAKAUA of the Hawaiian Islands,
passed through Ogden on his return homeward,
Sunday, the 24th ult.  His majesty in a letter
to Mayor Wells and the members of the City
Council, expressed regrets that he was not able
to accept their invitation to visit this city, hav-
ing been detained in the East longer than he
anticipated.  And he was pleased to meet at
Ogden, a delegation from Salt Lake, compris-
ing the Mayor and a number of other gentle-
men.  So the populace of our city didn't get to
feast their eyes on a "real, live king" this time,
after all.  But a sharp witted young lady sug-
gests that rather than die about it, they might
each in turn, call upon the amiable and ever
hospitable Hannah T.
	ALBERT STICKNEY, of Payson, Utah Co., was
recently killed by a snowslide in Summit Kan-
yon. We take this opportunity of extending
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved wife and
children. It is ever a trying ordeal to yield be-
loved friends to the cold grasp of death, even
when long days and nights of anxious watching
have in some degree prepared the clinging heart
tendrils to slacken their firm clasp.  But when
the keen dart enters in an unguarded moment
and unsuspected form—as in the case of Brother
Stickney—we have had occasion to knew, per-
sonally, that no language can express the heart's
anguish, which can only be overcome by the
strongest resolution, lapse of time and devout
confidence in God, that He doeth all things
well for those who trust in Him.  Sister Stick-
ney is a special friend of the EXPONENT, and
in this we would offer sympathy, and if possi-
ble a word of consolation.


MATRIMONIAL MARKET.

	It is a custom at a Galway fair for all the
marriageable girls to assemble and to tempt
all wanting wives, by their captivating
charms, to be made more happy for life.
Says an American gentleman of the highest
character, who was an eye witness, and in-
vited by a nobleman to go and see these
girls: "At 12 o'clock precisely we went as
directed, to a part of the ground higher
than the rest of the field, where we found
from sixty to one hundred young women,
well dressed, with good looks and good
manners, and presenting a spectacle quite
worthy any civil or modest man's feelings.
They were the marriageable girls of the
country, who had come to show themselves
on the occasion, to the young men who
wanted wives; and this was the plain and
simple custom of the fair.  I can plainly
say that I saw in the custom no great im-
propriety—it certainly did not imply that,
though they were ready to be had, any body
could have them.  It was not a Circassian
slave market, where the richest purchaser
could make his selection. They were in no
sense of the term, on sale, nor did they
abandon their right of choice; but that
which is done in more refined society, un-
der various covers and pretenses—at thea-
ters, at balls  and public exhibitions—I will
say nothing about the churches—was done


by these humble and unpretending people
in this straightforward manner.”


VALUE OF SMALL COURTESIES.

	Civility costs nothing, and is often pro-
ductive of good results. Here is an instance:
A local doctor of medicine at Bath, England,
has just had a legacy of twenty thousand
dollars, and a very comfortable house left
him by a lady who was only known to him
by his offering her a seat in his carriage.
	A gentleman known to the writer, once
assisted a very old and feeble man to cross
from the London Mansion House to the
Bank of England. The crossing is a very
dangerous one, especially at mid-day, when
the street is full of cabs, omnibuses, drays,
and other ponderous vehicles. When the
old gentleman had got safely across, he ex-
changed cards with the obliging young
friend; and then the matter ended. Some
four years after this incident occurred, a firm
of London solicitors wrote to this young
gentleman who had taken pity on the old
man, informing him that a legacy of five
thousand dollars and a gold watch and chain
had been left him by a gentleman who
“took the opportunity of again thanking
him in his will for an act of unlooked-for
civilty.” It is not likely that all will have
got watches and chains left them, or neat
little bundles of crisp notes; but it is cer-
tain that acts of civility are productive of
sufficient results to our inner selves to make
it worth while to practice them whenever
we find the opportunity.


LANGUAGE OF THE HANDS.

	The London Saturday Review says that
M. Desbarrolles in his "Mysteries of the
Hand," a book in which he gives the rules
which form the basis of palmistry, divides
hands into three sorts. The first sort have
fingers with pointed tops; the second, square
tops; the third, spade-shaped tops. By
spade-shaped is meant fingers that are thick
at the end,  having a little pad of flesh at
each side of the nail. The first type of fin-
gers belong to characters possessed of rapid
insight to things; to extra-sensitive people;
to pious people whose piety is of the contem-
plative kind; to the impulsive, and to all
poets and artists in whom ideality is a prom-
inent trait. The second type belongs to
scientific people; to sensible, self-contained
characters; to most of our professional men,
who steer between the wholly practical
course that they of the spade-shaped fingers
take and the too visionary-bent of the peo-
ple with pointed fingers. The third type
pertains to those whose instincts are mate-
rial; to the people who have a genius for
commerce and a high appreciation of every-
thing that tends to bodily ease and comfort;
also to people of great activity. Each fin-
ger, no matter what kind of hand, has one
joint representing each of these. Thus, the
division of the finger which is types nearest
the palm stands for the body (and corres-
ponds with the spade-shaped type), the mid-
dle division represents  mind (the square
topped), the top, soul (the pointed). If the
top joint of the finger be long, it denotes a
character with much imagination, or ideality,
and a leaning towards the theoretical rather
than the practical. The middle part of the
finger being large promises a logical, calcu-
lating mind—a common-sense person. The
remaining joint long and thick denotes a na-
ture that clings more to the luxuries than to
the refinements of life. Things will present
themselves to such a nature under a lower
aspect, and utility will be accounted before
beauty.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT
		THE BOOK OF MORMON
				OR
		A VOICE FROM CUMORAH.

Though not so awful grand as Sinai
In thunder, fire and clouds; yet, thy mild voice
Low whispering from the dust, hath more of God
Than Sinai's awful scene! And there is heard
In its weird depths, the chant of Prophecy
More startling than Sinai's awful thunders.
Thou art the key of keys, sent to unlock
The consummation of all precious things
Spoken by Prophets since fair Eden's morn.
Art and Science quick followed at they voice.
For if prior thou wert not, they both were vain.
By them thou goest to nations, kings and tongues,
On fierce winged lightning made for thy dispatch.
And they and thou art come to bless mankind,
And drop Millennial dew o'er all the earth,
Fresh and smiling with never-fading peace-
	Under the music of thine enchanting voice,
The roseate hue of endless summer comes
To unborn millions soon to people earth.
While Sinai's startling notes would fail to tell
Half of thy deep and grand significance.
Like a king of terrors thou dost prostrate thrones
To herald in th' eternal-Prince of Peace.
And kindling now thou art the effulgent dawn
of the Millennium a swiftly coming day,
So fraught with peace and bliss ineffable:
A long and calm and sunny morn 'twill be:
Let never-failing harps chant its glad-praise.

To God, allo'er the heavenly naradise.
Let Seraphim and Cherubim all hail
Each other at remembrance of that scene.
Let angels stop their fiery chariots
In heaven to chant back the glad refrain,
As they gaze earthward at this spectacle
Of heaven-born sublimity and awe.
And in their new-born bliss forget all else
As they echo, "Peace on earth'good will towards man;"
While Sinai bows her head in meckest awe,
With hand upon her lips and boasts no more.


[Column 1]
﻿		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Potato Puff.—Two cups of cold, mashed pota-
toes; stir in two tablespoonfuls of melted butter,
heating to a cream; add two well-beaten eggs, one
cup of cream or milk; pour into a deep dish; bake
in a quick oven.
	Jelly Rolls.—Take three eggs, half a cup of
sugar, a cup of flour, a teaspoonful of soda, or, in lieu
of the soda and cream tartar, one and a half tea-
spoonfuls of baking powder; bake in thin cakes;
spread with jelly and roll up with the jelly side
in; cut in slices across the roll.
	Cloth Mittens.—Take any soft, strong cloth, of
all wool, and the same amount of Canton flannel,
if you have it; let the hand be laid flat on a piece
of paper, marked round with a pencil, then cut
out a pattern, allowing for seams; cut the lining
bias so as to have a spring to it, stitch the flannel
and lining separate, turn the seams together inside,
bind the wrist, leaving the mitten open two inches
on the under part of the hand, work a button-hole
on one side, sew a strong button on the other, and
you will have a durable mitten.
	Apple Snow.—Pare and core eight or ten tart,
juicy apples, boil them in water sufficient to cover
them, till they are soft, taking care to keep them
whole; then remove them from the stew pan, mak-
ing a sirup of nice, white sugar, and replace them;
let them simmer slowly till they are amber col-
ored, then place in a glass preserve dish; beat to a
stiff froth, the whites of eight eggs, and two
thirds of a cup of sugar, and spread over the top.
It is improved by being kept on ice, and is grate-
ful to the eye and palate, either for desert or tea.
The yolks of the eggs may be used in making a 
boiled custard.
	Fruit Pudding.—Make a crust of graham flour,
sour cream, soda and a pinch of salt.  Pass the
flour through a coarse seive, so as to relieve it of
the larger bits of bran.  For a family of six
persons line a quart basin with the crust, a quarter
of an inch thick.  Fill the basin thus lined, with

[Column 2]
fruit—plums or peaches are the best.  Let the
fruit be of the choicest variety. Cover the whole
with a rather thick crust, and steam until the crust
is thoroughly cooked.  Serve with white sugar and
thick, sweet cream.  This is the queen of puddings
and can be eaten with a (comparatively) clear con-
science.—Herald of Health.
	Hints to Mothers.—Dear Sisters, "Troubled Mar-
thas" and "Tired Mothers," I have been a 
housekeeper for twelve years, have three children
and a family of six to do for (and I do it all my-
self,) besides being a farmer's wife, which many
think such a dreadful thing.  I have learned many
things by experience, which, although a good
teacher, is sometimes rather severe, and I have
been thinking if I could have started in life with
just the experience and knowledge of a wife's and
mother's work that I now have, what a deal of
trouble and anxiety it would have saved me.
	Cannot I help some one? Many things come
rushing to my mind at the present moment that I
have learned by experience, but have only time to
add a little now, and a another time (if this finds
room in your paper) will tell you some more.  I
may as well confess that this is the first time I ever
wrote to an editor in my life.  I will only speak
of the care of  children to-night, for, above all
things, I believe this to be of the highest value.
	I have learned by experience (for my first child
was sadly neglected) that children should have reg-
ular habits, especially in eating and sleeping. Do
not, as you prize their health, give them "pieces"
between meals after they are two years old. Be-
fore that give them something between the three
meals, but let it be at regular times each day.  It
will give tired mothers more rest, for they will not be
teasing for something to eat, and it will give your
child far better health.
	Command or oblige your children to sleep once
through the day, and insist upon its being at a par-
ticular time of day.  If you do not let them miss
the time for a "nap" for a few days, you will be
surprised to see how sleepy they will become just
at that time, and how soon they will drop to sleep
and how refreshed they will be when they awake.
And you, tired mother, will have such a rest; and 
I would recommend that every mother should lie
down with her children just a few moments.  Cer-
tainly you would thereby be more refreshed for
the labors the remainder of the day.—R.N.
Yorker.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	TO PREVENT A CHILL.—A sitz bath of
hot water with the feet also in hot water,
continued until a thorough sweat has been
taken. Then get into cold water all over,
or have cold water dashed all over you im-
mediately upon getting out of the hot
bath.
	SLEEPING.—Young children should not
be allowed to sleep in the same bed with
aged people. By physical contact, the vital-
ity is absorbed out of the one body into the
other, producing sometimes the most alarm-
effects to the child. No child should be put
to sleep with a person whose health is in
any way impaired.
	NEUBALGIA.—This painful disease has
been cured instantaneously by sponging the
affected part first in water as warm as could
be comfortably borne, and immediately af-
ter in cold water, and then rubbing hard
and briskly with a coarse towel. Rheumat-
ic pains have been repeatedly removed in
the same manner. This treatment will also
remove the inconvenience of cold feet.
	REMEDIES FOR COUGH.—Tea made from
slippery-elm. Or a pint of milk with a lit-
tle coal thrown in, simmered to half a pint.
An excellent syrup is made by simmering
together for half an hour, a half pint of mo-


lasses, the same of vinegar and a quarter
of a pund of raisins when cold a few drops
of laudanum may be stirred in.
	WASHING THE BLOOD.—The Journal of
Health says that the blood can as well be
washed as any other portion of the human
system; but to drink tea, coffee, chocolate,
cocoa, beer or cider does not tend to purify
the blood. On the contrary, such infusions
befoul and defile the blood. But by drink-
ing pure water often, but in small quanti-
ties, the entire inner system, including the
blood, may be thoroughly washed between
Saturday evening and Monday morning,
after which the outside skin should be well
washed.
	INCIPIENT CONSUMTION.—Dr. James C.
Jackson says, in the case of incipient con-
sumption, the patient should eat unleavened
bread, or unbolted wheat flour in some sim-
ple form of preparation. If milk is eaten it
should be skimmed.  Little sugar and no
salt should be used.  No tea, coffee or con-
diments, nor any kind of medicines should
be taken. A sitz bath three times a week
and a wash-off over the whole body the
other three days should be taken, the first
in a comfortably warm room, the latter in a
warm room. An abdominal bandage should
be worn. House labor, especially kitchen
work should be avoided, and pleasant ex-
ercise taken in the open air. Excitement
of all kinds should be avoided, and plenty
of sleep secured.


WOMAN'S VOICE

	ROCKSVILLE, KANE CO., Jan. 6th, 1875.
DEAR LULA:—
	I write according to promise, that you
may know where we are and how we are.
I am now at Sister P—'s, she that was the
widow A— when we "crossed the plains."
She is now the widow P.—, left a widow
the second time!  I came here to write be-
cause it is quiet.
The President desired us to go to Springdale
and there assist in building up a settlement.
At one time there were about twenty fami-
lies there, but they were called away they
say, into larger settlements, when the Indi-
ans were troublesome; and now there is not
much of a settlement there.  But the scen-
ery is picturesque, and it is one of the hid-
ing places of the Almighty, a very good one 
I think.  I hope to see the day when all our
family may be gathered there, and build up
Zion.  You know Zion is the pure in heart,
and I hope we may have a place there com-
posed of such, where we can live in love and
union. Not one striving in pride and selfish-
ness to gain wealth above another, but all
seeking together to benefit and improve the
state of all. Being owned and blest of the 
Lord, that He may pour out His spirit upon
us, that our sons and our daughters may
prophesy, our young men see visions and
our old men dream dreams, &c.  Does not
the signs of the times indicate that the sec-
ond coming of our Lord is near at hand?
And have not the Saints who are striving to
live their religion faithfully, reason to lift
up their hearts and rejoice, knowing that
their redemption draws near?
	The weather here is pleasant and beauti-
ful.  The sun shines as if it were summer.
There have been no storms this winter, and
the weather is not uncomfortably cool.  I 
have not felt cold and chilly, once this win-
ter, or since I came here, as I have always
done in winter time before.  Our health is
very good, for us, and I enjoy myself.
	Brigham, Jr., Joseph A., and some others


are traveling through the country, holding
meetings.  They held meeting here last eve-
ning, and Brigham gave us an excellent
discourse.
	The Lord is good, and His blessings are
with us, and we rejoice that we are among
those who have been called, and if we can
direct our lives so that we may be among
those who are chosen we shall be thrice
blest.
	For the present farewell.
						S. K. G.

	SAN BERNARDINO, CAL., Jan. 15th, 1875.
MRS. L. G. RICHARDS,
	DEAR SISTER:—Allow me one moment of
your valuable time, while I wish you all the
happiness you so richly deserve through the
New Year, now so young and blooming with
the many blessings of kind Heaven.  How
many there are who see no blessing in the
cold blasts of winter's frost and wind, or in
sickness, sorrow and death.  How few who
have the WILL to look for the "silvery lining
of the dark clouds." But I, with the "Stock-
ton Leader," do believe that if we only read
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and try to live up
to the moral and intellectual teachings there
given, we shall learn to be all that our most
ardent desires can anticipate.  And with
such earthly blessings, we need have no
fears for the "other shore."
	Please continue to send EXPONENT to my
little namesake in Beaver City.  She writes
me that she learns to read many good and
beautiful pieces in her paper, and hopes to
be as good as they teach her to be.
	We are lonely since our dear old mother
went "home" to rest.  The last reading she
heard was from the EXPONENT, which she
appreciated very much.  Pardon the lengthy
form this letter has assumed; I thought to
detain you but a moment, yet I cannot close
without mentioning the death of another
one of the good old mothers.  "Old Mother
Pine" often enjoyed reading your paper,
spoke of you in terms of sisterly regard and
wished me to remember her kind love to
you.  It was herself and husband who
brought the grandmother of the Prophet Jo-
seph from the East to Kirtland, Ohio. She
died full of faith, and had entire confidence
in the work of the Lord. 
	May prosperity smile on your noble efforts,
is the prayer of your sister,
					M. O. KELTING.

		AMERICAN FORK, Jan. 20th, 1875.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:—
	Enclosed, find money for postage on EX-
PONENT. The sisters who take the paper
here, prize it very highly for the good coun-
sel it contains.  Hoping your health and
that of your family is good, and wishing
you continued success and increasing pros-
perity, I am your sister in the Gospel,
					MARY HINDLEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"I am busy ploughing and cannot enter-
tain company now," is the substance of a
note recently written by a Macoupin Co., Ill.,
girl to a St. Louis exquisite who had met
her at a fashionable party at the latter city
and wished to visit her at home. The glo-
rious maiden is a graduate of an Illinois
seminary, and her father gave her an eighty
acre farm on condition that she should work
it herself, which she does.


FORTY-EIGHT Young Men's Christian As-
sociations own buildings to the value of two
million dollars. There are nine hundred
nd forty Young Men's Christian Associa-
ions in this country.


[Column 1]
		
	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THERE are 12,000 periodicals taken at
the Brittish Museum,
	THERE are over one hundred logging
camps on Wolf River, Wis.
	The property of the late Congressman
Crocker is estimated at $1,000,000.
	TWELVE States have adopted compulsory
education laws, New York being the last to
do so.
	NEARLY two thousand hogs have been
shipped from West Bend, Wis., since the
opening of the packing season.
	There are 121 students in the State Agri-
cultural College at Orono Maine, five of
whom are young women.
	LOUISVILLE claims that she has heard a
greater number of operas this season than
any other city in the Union, New York not
excepted.
	SO numerous are the additions to the
library of Harvard College that new shelves
to accommodate 2,000 volumes are in course
of construction.
	GERRIT Smith left an estate worth be-
tween $700,000 and $800,000. consisting
principally of property in Oswego City,
which will probably be divided between his
two children.
	The membership of Plymouth Church is
made up of 1,504 females and 886 males,
which is not at variance with the propor-
tions of the sexes in most religious bodies.
	OLIVER Downing, a well-known Boston
architect, has just died on the day of the
funeral of his wife, he being 90 years old
and she 87, they having lived together 67
years.
	THE New Zealand Government has sent
special agents over to England for the pur-
pose of collecting a quantity of small birds
of various kinds, and a colony of humble-
bees, for introduction into that country,
	THE Earl and Countess of Dudley lost a
package of jewelry valued at $250,000 at a
railway station in England recently. They
have offered a reward of $5,000 for its re-
covery.
	KING Kalakaua has, it is said, an in-
come of $22,500 per annum. This is de-
rived from a tax of 5 cents on every $100
worth of property $1 on every horse and
$5 on every carriage owned and run in his
dominions.
	THE original discovery of Sharon's great
mine was made in 1859, when the region
was known as Washoe. Since then nearly
two hundred millions' worth of silver and
gold has been drawn from the lode.
	PARIS it is estimated, contains 120,000
women who are dependent upon their
needle for support. The highest rate of pay
is about 70 cents per day, while the aver-
age pay when fully employed, is not over
24 cents for l2 hours work. 
	SINCE the beginning of the famine in Asia
Minor 50,000 persons have migrated from
various parts of the country to the City of
Adana. Half of them have since succumbed
to disease. The strange climate and ex-
treme rapaciousness of the tax-gatherers
tend to aggravate the distress and increase
the mortality.
	CAPTAIN Boynton, of New Jersey, has
invented an apparatus, which enables a
swimmer to remain hours and even days in
the roughest water with security. He ex-

[Column 2]

hibited his patent swimming apparatus on
Monday afternoon, Oct. 26th, in Queens-
town Harbor. He swam a mile with the
greatest ease, and was three-quarters of an
hour in the water. It is stated he intends
swimming across St. George's Channel be-
fore returning to this country.


FLOWERS.

	AVOID extremes and you ward off ill
luck.
	IT is better to do and not promise than to
promise and not do.
	AVAIL yourself of all your knowledge
without making a display of it.  The ma-
chinery works best when hidden from
view.
	IT is the motto of every true heart, and
the genius of every noble life, that "no man
liveth to himself"—lives chiefly for his own
selfish good.
	IT is a law of our intellectual and mora
being that we promote our own happiness
in the exact proportion that we contribute
to the comfort and enjoyment of others.
	NOTHING worthy of the name of happi-
ness is possible in the experience of those
who live only for themselves, and oblivious
of the welfare of their fellows.
	THE lessons of life are for the most part
slowly learned.  The page is often carelessly
turned and hurriedly passed by, on which
our Great Father has written much that He
would fain have us study.
	YES, live for something worthy of life
and its capabilities and opportunities, for
noble deeds and achievments.  Every man
and every woman has his or her assignment
in the duties and responsibilities of daily
life.
	THE more people do the more they can
do.  He that does nothing renders himself
incapable of doing anything.  While we
are executing one work, we are preparing
to undertake another.
	SEE that each hour's feelings and thoughts
and actions are pure and true; then will
your life be such.  The wide pastures are
but separate spears of grass; the sheeted
bloom of the prairies but single flowers.
	WE are in the world to make the world
better; to lift it up to higher levels of en-
joyment and progress, to make its hearts
and homes brighter and happier by devot-
ing to our fellows our best thoughts, activi-
ties, and influence.
	CHEERFULNESS is an excellent wearing
quality.  It has been called the bright
weather of the heart.  It gives harmony
to the soul, and is a perpetual song without
words. It is tantamount to repose. It ena-
bles nature to recruit its strength; whereas
worry and discontent debilitate it; involv-
ing constant wear and tear.
	ADORN YOUR HOMES.—Some one writes
both gracefully and forcibly: "I would be
glad to see more parents understand that
when they spend money judiciously to im-
prove and adorn the house and the grounds
around it, they are in effect paying their
children a premium to stay at home as much
as possible and enjoy it; but when they
spend money unnecessarially in fine cloth-
ing and jewelry for their children, they are
paying them a premium to spend their time
away from home—that is, in those places
where they can attract the most attention
and make the most display."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


﻿		DIVERSIONS.
	HORSE thieves are serenaded in Texas by
string bands.
	IF you do not like your neighbor, buy his
child a small drum.
	THE tax which presses most heavily on 
schoolboys is syntax.
	GOV. Peck of Vermont is a bachelor.
Marrying would make half a bushel of him.
	THE proper salutationwhen you meet a
writing master is, "How do you flourish?"
	A MINNESOTA man makes the winter
seem short by giving his note payable in the
spring.
	"SALLY, at what time do your folks
dine?" "Soon as you go away—that's mis-
sus' orders."
	"YOU look as if you were beside your-
self," said a wag to a fellow who stood by 
the side of an ass.
	A YOUNG lady says she longs for fingers
like the tongs of a pitchfork, with diamond
rings enough to fill them to the ends.
	"YOU don't seem to know how to take
me," said a vulgar fellow to a gentleman
whom he had insulted. "Yes, I do," said
the gentleman, taking him by the nose.
	QUEEN Victoria went to a garden party at
Chiswick recently, and a gentlemen present
told her he remembered her face, but he
couldn't for the life of him, recall her 
name.
	AN English writer says, in his advice to
young married women, that their mother 
Eve married a gardener. It might be add-
ed that the gardener, in consequence of the
match, lost his situation.
	IT'S truly astonishing how the papers,
while they persist in charging a man a dollar
an inch for advertising when living, cheer-
fully give up a whole column of space for 
nothing when his obituary comes along.
	"Do you know why you are like the third
term?" said Susan Jane to her brother, who
lingered to talk with her Adolphus after the
old folks had retired. "No, I don't." "Well,"
replied his saccharine sister, "It's becuase
you're one too many."
	"Everything goes wrong," said an Illi-
nois farmer, wiping his eyes. "The grass-
hoppers cum, the hired man broke his leg,
wife died, the barn burned, and I've rid for
three days and can't find a woman who
wants to marry."
	WHILE T. D. Jones was in Columbus mod-
elling his bust of Chase, a young man of the
Sparkler order of architects, approached
him one night at a social gathering with the
following inquiry: "Er-er—say! er-er so
you're the man-er—that makes mud heads
ain't you?" "Yes," said old Tom, blandly;
"Do you want a new one?"
	LONG ago, during the Millerite fever,
when ascension robes were in order, and all
were listening for the chariot-wheels, a good
couple had retired one night-the man
somewhat visionary, but his wife practical
enough. In the ebb of a midwinter night
he awoke, hearing a slight noise, and gently
nudged his sleeping partner.  "Wife, I hear
the chariot wheels of God." "Lie still John,
you old fool; the Lord would not come on 
wheels, with such good sleighing."
	A YOUNG man from the country lately
volunteered his services to gallant a young
lady home from a party. On his way, he
cudgelled his brains for some interesting
[Column 2]
topic of conversation to amuse her with, but
in vain; he could hit upon nothing until
they met several cows, when the swain siad,
with much simplicity of manner:—"Now,
isn't it strange what a motherly appearance
a cow has!" To which the young lady re-
plied: "I do not think it strange, sir, that a
cow should have a motherly appearance to a
calf!"
	"HOW much is your stick candy?" in-
quired a boy of a candy dealer.
	"Six sticks for five cents."
	"Six sticks for five cents, eh? Now, 
lem'me see. Six sticks for five cents, five
fer four cents, four fer three cents, three fer
two cents, two fer one cent, one fer nothin'.
I'll take one." And he walked out, leaving
the candy man in a state of bewilderment.


LITTLE FOLKS.
	A LITTLE three year old referred to the
dark brown biddy as, “Our dark complected
hen.”
	“OPEN oos boo eyes mine tat," is the way
in which a mother’s darlirig addressed his
gray pussy. 
	“Now, Sammy, tell me, have you read the
story of Joseph?" “Oh, yes, uncle.” “Well,
then, what wrong did they do when they
sold their brother?” “They sold him too
cheap, I think.”			
	“THERE is one good thing about babies,”
said a recent traveler; “they never change.
We have girls of the period, men of the
world; but the baby is the same self-pos-
sessed, fearless, laughing, voracious little
heathen in all ages and in all countries.”
	A SCHOOLBOY spelled “sob,” and when
asked to define it, blundered out: “It means
when a feller don’t want to cry, and it bursts
out itself.” Another defined a comma as “a
period with a tail.”
	The other evening a cat was making a
piteous noise outside the door, when the lit-
tle daughter of our friend, imagined it was
singing about the cold weather and said,
“Mama, I wish kitty wouldn’t sing that song
any more, it makes my toes cold.”
	A little boy in Springfield, Ill., after his
customary evening prayer, a night or two
ago, continued, “and bless mamma, and
Jerry, and Uncle Benny,” adding, after a
few moment’s pause the explanatory re-
mark, “his name is Hopkins.”  
	A LITTLE girl in Vermont called at a drug
store and said: “My mother wants ten cents’
worth of jumps.” She insisted that that
was what she had been sent for, and the
clerk had to send her back for further in-
structions. Very soon she returned, and
said it was hops that she wanted.
	WHAT A CHILD CAN DO.—A little boy
who attended a temperance meeting was
asked by his father when he returned:—
“Have you learned anything, my boy?”
“Yes, father, I have. I have learned never
to put strong drink to my lips; for it has
killed fifty thousand persons annually, and
how do I know that it will not kill me?”
	A YOUNGSTER, seven years old, who hap-
pens to be one of a dozen bright children,
was saying his evening prayer, a day or two
ago, while in a rather sleepy condition. It
is his custom to begin with, “O Lord, bless
father and mother,” and then go through
the rest by name. On this occasion he got
as far as father and mother, when his sleepi-
ness overcame him, and he finished up as
follows: “And I’m in a hurry, bless the
whole crowd;” and, in the twinkling of an
eye, was between the sheets.


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,
				GO TO
			MRS. C. E. DYE'S, 
			19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES' & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
			 Of the Latest Style.
	Give her a call, she will be sure to please you.
_______________________________________________
			EVERY DESCRIPTION
					OF
		    CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
					AND
		      GENERAL DRY GOODS.
                                        ____
            Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
                                        ____
                           Large Assortment of
          CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50. 
                                        ____
                 Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
                                        ____
                                H. E. PHELPS,
                                          29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
__________________________________________________
                             H. DINWOODEY
   WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
                        Largest Assortment in Utah.
  He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
                              storey Brick Store,
 FIRST SOUTHST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP CORNER.
___________________________________________________
H.    WALLACE
                                            ____
	Has the best, large[-]t and purest stock of confec-
                                            ____
    tionary in Salt Lake City. Just the place for ladies 
                                            ____
    to purchase.
____________________________________________________
____________________________________________________
                                    CLUB RATES.
                                             ____
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns encircled with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume: 
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, -	       -	    -	         -	    - $18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 	-	       -	    -	          -	    -    26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50 -	       -	    -	          -	    -    34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely frames, selling price $4	   - 	     -  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in. 
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers adn 
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Vol. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1875			NO. 18


[Column 1]
	       NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE LAW requires, that railroad compa-
nies shall pay to the government, five per
cent of their net earnings. It appears that
the Union Pacific railroad companies have
not acted in conformity with the law in this
respect, in consequence of which suits have
been commenced against them.
	PEOREA, ILLINOIS, has the honor of having
lately elected the first woman Bank Direct-
or in this country. She is Lydia Bradley,
a widow and very wealthy. Her new posi-
tion will probably prove her to be also the
possessor of more honesty than many of her
gentlemen predecessors who have held like
offices of trust.
	OF THE convicts who have entered the
New Hampshire State Prison during a num-
ber of years, the gentleman employed as
Chaplin, states that only about one in six
could read or write. Not one from any
learned profession has ever been an inmate
of the prison. This is but one instance in
favor of education; but the world has grown
wise, and ignorance is now almost univer-
sally considered the chief cause of crime.
	THE POOR in New York and "what is to
become of them," has grown into a prob-
lem of astounding magnitude. There are
said to be one hundred and seventy-nine
thousand people living in two thousand sev-
en hundred tenements, out of employment,
and existing entirely by the aid they re-
ceive from public and private charity. And
the horrors of this wretched pauperism in-
crease daily. Can the increase of crime in
New York be wondered at?
	THE LOUISIANA affair, of which so much
has been said, and much more might be
said—arising from the recent occurrence of
the State's Governor marching a body of
U. S. Militia into the Legislative hall, in
New Orleans, to settle embarrassing ques-
tions by force of arms instead of by force of
argument—will stand as a precedente in the
annals of American history. Whether the
lesson it teaches will prove to be one of
benefit to the nation or otherwise, time
muse decide.
	WHAT THE Mormon women really think
about polygamy, many curious people are
anxiously striving to ascertain. The follow-
ing extract from a letter written at Grand
Rapids, Jan. 29th, from a prominent lady
of this city, now visiting friends in the east,
shows what her opinions upon the vexed
question are, after having looked into social
circles abroad. It also evinces that other
reflecting women, as well as those connected
with the church, are partially awakening to
a sense of the necessity for some change to
take place, that a decisive reform may be
wrought in society. The lady writes: "I
have had many talks with women about our
system of marriage, and have found that I
am listened to with profound attention. I
am surprised at the little amount of preju-
dice that exists among intelligent women.
They realize to some extent that something
must be done to reconstruct society. Crime
is on the increase. There have been several
cases of scandal here, two since I came,
among the first people. Purity of life is
scarcely to be found. The eye closing pro-

[Column 2]
cess is resorted to in most families. I keep
both eyes open and my lips closed. My
heart aches to see the condition of women
and children. Monogomy is a curse to any
nation. I long for freedom for my country
women.”


[Column 1]
TRYING TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM.

	A lady visiting Salt Lake City, chanced
to fall in company with a Mormon lady,
when the following conversation ensued.
	Stranger. How long have you resided in
the City?
	Mormon. Nineteen years.
	S. Are you Mormon?
	M. I am.
	S. I suppose you are acquainted with
President Young and family?
	M. I am.
	S. How many wives has he got?
	M. I do not know, but those I am acquain-
ted with are noble women.
	S. What do you think of Brigham Young?
	M. I think his history proves him to be
one of the greatest benefactors of the pre-
sent age.
	S. In what do you consider him a pub-
lic benefactor?
	M. He has not only gathered the poor
from the nations of the earth by preaching
the gospel, but reclaimed the desert, which
has become a fruitful field and peaceful
home for the oppressed of all nations.
	S. Have you received evidences of the
truth of Mormonism?
	M. I have.
	S. What are they?
	M. When I investigated the doctrines
taught by the missionaries I found them to
be the same as those contained in the Bible,
and prayed earnestly to God to make known
to me if He had revealed Himself by mani-
festations of His power as he did anciently; I
received a testimony that I cannot doubt,
and this is the reason that I am here.
	S. Do you believe in polygamy?
	M. I do.
	S. What evidences have you that polyga-
my is acknowledged of God?
	M. I have history of the ancient Patri-
archs and the testimony that God has given
me, that it is accepted of Him.
	S. Has your husband another wife?
	M. He has.
	S. And did you give your consent?
	M. I did.
	S. Are you the first wife?
	M. I am. 
	S. How long did you live with your husband
before he took another?
	M. Fifteen years.
	S. How long have you lived in polygamy?
	M. Ten years.
	S. How did you feel when your husband
took another wife?
	M. I suppose I felt something like Abra-
ham did when he went to offer up Isaac. 
	S. Are you satisfied with your position?
	M. I am thankful that I have had the
privilege of living in polygamy.
	S. Are you happy now?
	M. As happy as I can be.
	S. I cannot comprehend you.
	M. I do not suppose you can. I will ex-
plain a little. Nowhere in the revelations

[Column 2]
of God to man do we find salvation and
exaltation promised to any individual who
has received a knowledge of God, only
through proving his or her integrity by sac-
rifice. 
	S. Do all the Mormon ladies take that
view of the subject?
	M. They accept polygamy as a revelation
from God, believing it to be a command-
ment. 
	S. Do you think it has a tendency to re-
generate posterty?
	M. I do think if the physiological and
paternal laws that should govern maternity
were understood and carried out, posterity
would be greatly improved. 
	S. Do you think Mormon women will
continue to sustain plurality under the
present circumstances?
	M. I believe every true woman will de-
fend it under all circumstances, when she's
convinced that it is true.
	S. If we admit that it is true, it comes so
in contact with my feelings, I never could
bear it.
	M. A noble woman will not consult her
feelings when she is fully persuaded that a
whole people is to be benefitted. There was
Josephine, the wife of Napoleon; and also
Sarah, Abraham's wife who were called to
make such sacrifices, and whose names are
held in honorable remembrance.
	S. I admit your reasoning is philosophi-
cal, and yet I cannot see how they can be
happy.
	M. Be happy in doing right and trying to
elevate and save woman from the prostitu-
tion and disgrace which curses the whole
nation with degeneracy and darkness.
	S. So you think polygamy is calculate to
elevate woman do you?
	M. I think that was the design of our
Creator in revealing it.
	S. I would rather have one Isaac than to
have a dozen lackeys. I do not see how a
man can take care of so many children.
	M. God takes care of those who keep His
commandments. If you were going to form
a colony, or fight a battle, who would you
call upon; the man who could command
twenty sons or the man with five?
	S. If you have a Napoleon perhaps he
can command five thousand.
	M. The revelations of God teach us that
it is a blessing for man to perpetuate his
name upon the earth, and a curse if he
loses his identity.
	S. I have been very much interested in
the conversation, and regret that I have to
go on the train at four o'clock.
	M. We, as a people, take pleasure in dis-
abusing the minds of strangers when they
visit us, as we are aware that we are greatly
misrepresented abroad.
	S. That's very true, for I could not have
believed what I have seen and heard had I
not stopped in the city.
	M. I hope you will not forget to correct
any misrepresentations you may hear con-
cerning us—
	S. I certainly will not. I am surprised
and interested in finding this people so dif-
ferent from what I expected, and I thank
you for the information you have given me
and regret so soon to say goodby.
							  W. E.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT
			ADDENDUM.

	MOST RESPECTFULLY TO QUE
		(EXPONENT, Jan. 15th, 1875.)

Dear Queery: 'Tis wrong,—that I freely admit,—
	To judge from a standard too low;
And that I did, was not that the bright opposite
	I am not so blest as to know.
God bless him! who knows and is free to affirm
	Women's lot has been low for her worth; 
Who holds her his equal while in her soul burn
	Thoughts and aims of as heavenly birth.
Who holds that no sex 'mong the passions is known,
	Love and virtue as holy in all,
That daughter and son God will equally own
	When made pure and redeemed from the fall
Yet, this Ideal, noble, unselfish and grand,
	Still winning, and tender, and sweet,
The lovely, the Christlike example of man,
	Deny not, 'Tis rarely we meet.
When beloved by such, whom we proudly revere,
	We are not quite at ease even then—
From fair heights of joy we look down in pale fear
	Lest our sisters fall victims to men
Who know not, who care not if Love be divine
	And woman beloved of God,
Who scorn her as being "a frail, clinging vine"
	And who'd trample her down to the sod.
Who think that God made her a slave to man's will;
	If not, HE will will make her so yet,
Who will win her affections with cunningest skill
	And lead her to lifelong regret,
I wish her to learn to be  wary and wise
That by such she may never be won,
That poor, sightless Love may be furnished with eyes
	And never cool judgment outrun.
That without losing faith in Humanitys worth,
	She may set a just value on each,
And judge righty between the things hoped for on earth
	And those that are now within reach.
When her own Priesthood quickens her spiritual sight
	'Til she know whence her love would return,
'Twill then be quite safe to give Love a free flight,
	And—as safe just to wait till he come.
									LU DALTON.
Beaver, Jan. 23, 1875.


R. S. REPORTS.
			TOOELE CITY, Feb. 2nd, 1875
Dear Editor :—
	I have been a subscriber to the EXPONENT
since its commencement, and feel now that
I could not do without it. To me, one beau-
tiful feature is, that through its columns we
see the advancement of our sisters in the
Relief and Retrenchmeet Societies through
the territory. And as we are all striving
for the same high object,expecting to obtain
and share it all together finally, we feel
great interest in each others welfare. The
Societies in Tooele are doing well, and I
think, are accomplishing great good. The
President and Counselors in the Relief Society
are alive to their duties and the Teachers look
well after the wants of the poor. And we
all feel blest not alone in performing our
temporal duties, but also in meeting often
together to speak to each other of the good-
ness of God. The young ladies’ association
is also prospering. They take great delight
in attending their meetings and trying to
live worthy of being called Daughters of
Zion. The Exponent has not told us of
late, about the Fourteenth Ward General
Retrenchment meetings. I cannot believe
they (the sisters) have given up those re
freshing meetings. Pray let them know
that their sisters love to partake with them
of the good things they feast upon through
the EXPONENT.
	Your Sister in the Gospel,
				JENETT DE LA MARE.


MISS Jennie Collins invited the unem-
ployed girls to dine with her at the Bower,
No. 815 Washington Street, Boston, recently,
and presided over the entertainment.


LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE

					Jan. 23rd, 1875
DEAR EDITOR:
	We are enjoying ourselves here in this de-
lightful climate. My husband's health has
not been better for years. President Young's
health is pretty good; he rides out almost
every day to the temple to advise and coun-
sel the workmen. There are so many things
to look after it keeps him, my husband, and
many others, on the look out continually,  to
keep so many men at work advantageously.
There are about three hundred in all. We
are very comfortably situated here, at the
St. George House, where we have taken
rooms and board. The sisters of the Relief
Society have donated to the Temple, one
hundred dollars since we have been here.
On the last Fast day, there was over fifty
dollars in money, in fifty-cent offerings, do-
nated by the brethren and sisters. We have
had another gentle rain of three or four
days, which hindered the workmen on the
Temple, but gladdened the hearts of the
farmers. The Temple walls are expected to
be ready for the roof, by the first of April;
there are twenty feet of masonry yet to be
laid. They have here, Sunday Schools in
the forenoon, and Sacramental meetings in
the afternoon. The brethren are giving
historical lectures once a week, the young
men's Historical Club meets once a week
and they are having theatres twice a week.
The weather is pleasant again. May pros-
perity attend your valuable paper. We ex-
pect to start for home about the tenth of
February next. 
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.


FAITH.

	What is faith? We are told it is an as
surance of things not seen but hoped for,
and of which we we have no certain knowl-
edge.
	It seems to me, that I cannot better il-
lustrate faith, than by narrating the follow-
ing story, or incident, which came under
my observation.
	A lady whose husband had failed in busi-
ness, and left her home to go and seek an
opening in another place, found herself left
alone with four or five children to support
with her own hands. After some weeks of
hard struggling and very short fare, she
arose one morning and found there was
neither bite nor sup in the nouse to give her
hungry little ones. The delicate nine year
old  girl busied herself in tidying up the
room, while the mother whose heart was
sad and heavy, was dressing the other child-
ren. But she said to her daughter. "You
had better fill the tea kettle, and set the ta-
ble for breakfast." The child looked the
surprise she felt as she answered, "Why,
mother, there is no bread nor anything else
for breakfast!" Never mind my child, set
the table, God will provide for us." When
it was done, the mother called her children
around her, and knelt for the usual morning
prayers, and poured out her soul in supplica-
tion to the giver of all good; our Father in
Heaven. She arose with a calmer light in
her eyes. Then went to her drawer an-
took out a small roll of white, soft, cotton
and linen rags, and sent her little girl
with them to the store to sell, with instruc-
tions what to do with the money which she
should get for the rags.
	The child slipped away on the errand,
and received much more than expected.
She ran to the grocer's and bought tea, su-
gar, and butter. She then took the remain-
ing part to the baker and holding it out in


her little hand said; “Please Sir, will you
send mother all the bread you can for this?”
The baker who was a kind man, and knew
the child said, "Has your father not come
home?” “No sir.” “Then your mother is
in a strait, ha? Well hold up your apron."
And he loaded the child with bread and
cakes till she could hardly stagger under it.
	“When the child got into the house the
faithful mother wept tears of joy, and her
heart was filled with thankfulness to that
God whose Son hath said; “God feeds the
ravens, and will He not feed you, O ye of
little faith.
					EMMA NYE BINGHAM.
	Ogden.


For the EXPONENT.
		RESPECT THE CHILDREN'S 
		       FEELINGS.
	“Auntie, do big folks never do anything
that they need to be scolded for?” asked a
mischievous little girl.
	"Certainly they do, just as much as little
folks," was the reply.
	"Well why don’t they get scolded then?
no one ever speaks cross to you," observed
the child.
	"Not because I do not deserve it perhaps,
but that people regard my feelings," said
her Aunt.
	"Eh! I wish I could have my feelings re-
garded," answered the little victim of cen-
sure.
	And who blames her for thinking so?
Her Aunt did not, but while telling the
child she must learn to do as nearly as possi-
ble as she was told, by those who had a
right to direct her, some new ideas crossed
her mind.
	Why are children spoken so sharply to,
often for the most trivial offenses? Are
not their feelings as acute as those of olderpeople, and should they not be as carefully
regarded?							L.


PRACTICAL EDUCATION.

	How is it that we can see men who have
molded themselves on the anvil who won’t
let their boys be moulded on the anvil too?
As the leather dealer pounds the leather
together to make a sole, so the boy needs
pounding to make him a man. If you don’t
you bring up a tender child, a child that
won’t wear well. And the same with a
child that is brought up without knowing
how to work. There are misfortunes enough
that fall upon the fair sex; there are adver-
sities and sudden revolutions in affairs that
more often fall, like pitiless storms, upon
their heads than upon those of men, but of
all adversities a foolish mother for a fair
daughter is the most adverse; one who will
not teach the child how to earn her living,
who will not teach her fruitful industry.
Music may be heard instead of spinning;
but, in some way or another, work should be
part of the education of every boy, and the
boy who is brought up without knowing
how to work is not brought up at all; he is
abused. The old Jews used to say that a
man not brought up to a trade is brought up
to be a thief, and I am of the same opinion
to a great extent. So, then, parents, if you
would bring up the best crops here that
your ground will allow, bring up stalwart
boys that are able to work and are not at all
ashamed of it, and bring up good stalwart
girls that are able to work in the kitchen
and about the house, and are not ashamed
of it either.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A VISION.
	Being a firm believer in the Bible, and
the announcement that Joseph Smith saw
and conversed with angels, as did most of
the ancient prophets and apostles since the
world began; and believing also, that it was
my peculiar privilege to enjoy like gifts,
(for this had been prophesied upon my head
by the elders of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, who had ministered
unto me in sickness,) and that the glory of
God should be revealed unto me, I began to
hunger and thirst exceedingly after the
great and glorious privilege of beholding a
heavenly vision of angels, sent from the
presence of God, and to be filled with the
Holy Ghost, as were the ancients. There-
fore I began to devote every spare moment
to prayer, and to the reading of the holy
scriptures, feasting on the teachings of Je-
sus and the prophets, and the principles of
eternal life, almost to the exclusion of all
external surroundings. On the afternoon of
the 21st of February, 1867, while telling
my desires to an elder of this Church, the
spirit of prophecy immediately fell upon
him, and he began to prophesy that the ful-
filling of my great desires was at hand, and
that that night should not pass away till I
should be satiated by conversing with an-
gels. And as he spoke forth by the Spirit
of God, it fell upon me like a clap of light-
ning. This was at 5 p. m. About 7 p.
m. I retired to bed, and began engaging in
mighty prayer for the promised blessing,
for I had proved this man of God to be in-
deed a prophet. He had prophesied truly
upon me before, and the renovating power
of God was even now proving his words to
be true, pouring down upon me like a pillar
of fire, until it seemed as if every hair of
my head would be consumed by it. While
all my body was as if it burned in a furnace
and every pore sweat until I was dripping
wet, and I began to tremble and quake, my
body was expanded till I seemed to be light-
er than a feather and did not feel the
bed clothes, but rather seemed to be leaving
them for mid air, and floating toward heaven
in the pillar of fire which enveloped me.
With all the energy of my soul, I continued to
pray steadfastly without ceasing, that I
might have faith not only to feel this inef-
fable paradise, but to see the angels of God
face to face, and thereby drink of its ful-
ness, as far as is allowed to mortals. As a
starving man’s appetite is whetted by a
pitiful morsel, so was mine aggravated by
this heavenly sensation. After about five
hours of this most heavenly baptism of fire,
I dozed off and dreamed that the angels
were at my bedside ready to converse with
me, and that I must pray for still greater
courage to behold them in the glory that
surrounded them, while light and peace inef-
fable shone upon me as a precursor to their
mighty presence. I woke up, with a shock
like lightning to my whole system, far more
powerful than anything I had yet experi-
enced. The room was filled with consuming
flames, as a rushing, mighty wind, and a
pillar of fire far above the brightness of the
noonday sun, shining with clear, transpar-
ent brilliancy, lit upon me, knocking me
dumb and immovable, as it caught me up
into a sitting posture. As I gazed mute
and helpless toward heaven, in the midst of
the light, just beneath the ceiling, I saw
two immortal beings. Their countenances
transcended the meridian sun, as stopping
in their descent they smiled upon me. They
then continued their dove like, gentle and
circular descent, round and round, lower and
lower, keeping an exact distance from each
other—as we have seen swallows keep won

[Column 2]
derful and exact proximity in following
each other in their inimitable flights—till
they had descended within a foot or two
above me. They then rested their chins
upon their right hands and smiled again.
	Oh! fallen, void and empty language,
what word hast thou to describe the immor-
tal beauty of an angel’s smile?
	I now beheld the full and lightning like
appearance of their countenances. On their
heads were crowns of pure gold like trans-
parent glass, inlaid with immortal stones of
every conceivable color higher and of more
exceedingly fine workmanship in front than
at the sides. They were dressed in robes
of most exquisite whiteness and texture of
pure linen, falling gentle undulating folds,
to their ankles, which, with their feet were
perfectly bare, as were also their hands and
arms to the elbows, excepting at the wrists,
which were encircled with bracelets of pur-
est gold, studded with the most precious
stones. Not a speck or mote was upon their
countenances, which were perfectly trans-
parent—I could see through their faces
plainly as through a window. To notice all
this consumed but a short time, perhaps
half a minute. One of them began speak-
ing to me.
	But Oh! who can describe the voice?
Softer than the echoes of a whisper, sweeter
than undulating music and more refined than
paradisical zephyrs, his words fell upon my
adoring soul and dispelled every fear. ’Twas,
the voice of an Angel from Glory, never,
never to be forgotten!
	He spoke four words to me, which pierced
as living fire and I was as one dead before
him, and shrank, for from his eyes issued
flames of living fire, and his very feet burned
with flames as if in a furnace. I then looked
at the other angel and saw that it was a fe-
male. She spoke and told me her name.
	The first did not tell me his name, but
spoke of the glory that I should enjoy after
my afflictions in this world were over. Gaz-
ing at each of them alternately, I asked if
they were married. The woman answered
“No. There is no marrying or giving in
marriage in heaven, but it must be done on
the earth.” When she had said this, I was
dumb and could not endure their presence
longer. Then she touched the two first fin-
gers on my right hand, and gave them three
gentle pressures, each touch being like death,
and the third was death itself, or its equiv-
alent for in a moment—in the twinkling of
an eye—I was caught up into heaven, into
a state of perfect rest and peace, and my
senses swam in an estacy of indescribable
happiness, in sea of ineffable, seraphic
bliss. Whether in the body or out I know,
not. But the things unutterable that passed
in this paradise, were taken from me at the
return of consciousness to earthly things,
when they seemed like the shining frag-
ments of a gorgeous vision, fast fading
from my view. Perhaps I was in that state
half an hour.
	The next change I remember, I was again
gazing steadfastly at the two angels, from
whose countenances I took not my eyes for
a moment, and upon whom I could now
look without pain or fear. As I was thus
gazing and adoring them, desiring them to
tarry and converse, I saw that the light was
centering immediately around their persons;
then I knew intuitively they were going to
leave me. And as I now gazed steadfastly,
worshipping, my desires being very intense
that they should tarry a little longer—with
the velocity of lightening a cloud over-
shadowed them that I could not behold
them, though they moved not to the right
nor to the left. The room was dark, and for

[Column 3]
a moment only I was conscious. For so
great was the power of God upon me, that
I fell into unconsciousness immediately, as if
a catapult had struck me. The next I re-
membered was the most delightful music,
chanted by ten thousand times ten thousand
voices, in praise to God, the faintest echo of
which can not be forgotten to the end of
time, and when recalled, startles my whole
senses with delight and adoration.
	Receding and still receding, growing
fainter and fainter, ascending and still as-
cending until the faintest echoes died away,
in the dim distance of mid heaven, it was
lost to my ear. And now the second time,
consciousness of where I was dawned upon
me, and the room was dark. I lay as one
dead, without the power to stir a muscle or
move a limb for about three hours. At the
end of which time I began to be able to stir
my fingers and toes, and finally had power
to turn from my back on to my side. My
night clothes were as wet with perspiration 
as if I had been swimming. By day light
I was able to get up and dress myself, but
had to sit still all the forenoon, for I was still
consumed as in a pillar of fire. And I felt
so light in body for a week after, that I was
half unconscious whether or not my feet 
touched the earth in walking.
	The vision began about midnight and
must have ceased between one and two
o’clock, on the morning of the 22nd of Feb-
ruary, which is Washintong’s birthday.
	All glory and honor and blessing and pow-
er and might be unto the Father, and to His
holy child Jesus, and the Holy Ghost, who
are one God, for ever and evers worlds with-
out end. Amen.	    				A.P.


﻿FACTS AND FIGURES.

	A DUNBARTON woman has counted the
pies she made during 1874, and says they
foot up 580.

	THE heart of Rev. John Bragdon, of the
Congregational society in Hillsboro’ Bridge,
has been made glad by a gift of a purse of
$65 from his parishioners.

	THE annual sale of seats at Plymoth
church (Beecher's) this last month, brought
$70,319. The amount realized last year was
$58,346. Chas. Dennis bid $550 premium,
H. B. Claffin $510, and H. C. Bowen $455.

	THE New England losses by fires during
the past year are reported as follows, by
States: Massachusettts, $5,771,844; Connec-
ticut, $2,332,700; Rhode Island, $1,084,476;
Maine, $640,225; New Hampshire, $539,480;
Vermont, $346,200. Total $10,715,936.

	AN old fashioned spelling match for a
couple of $12 dictionaries was indulged in
at a Normal School on Christmas. After
three hours, Miss Minott teacher in the
Grammer School, and Harry Cole, a student
in the Normal Department, alone were left
standing of a class of sixty, and the prizes
were awarded to them.


We read in classic history of an Athenian who,
hesitating whether to give his daughter in mar-
riage to a virtuous man with a small fortune, or to
a rich man who had no other recommendation,
went to consult Themistocles on the subject. "I
would bestow my daughter,” said Themistocles,
"upon a man without money; rather than upon
money without a man.”


No friend loves you more truly than the
one who will tell you kindly and plainly
of your faults.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY. FEB. 15, 1875


SPLINTERS.

			    LOCAL.
      Our city beaux and belles are happy now,
over the excitement of St. Valentine's day
......Hon. S. B. Axtell arrived in this city,
to take up his abode as Governor of Utah,
on Tuesday, the 2nd inst......Sexton Taylor
reports forty-one interments for the month
of January......Presidents Young and Smith
are expected to be in this city from St.
George, on or about the 20th inst.......Miss
Katherine Rogers, a neat and attractive ac-
tress, lately filled a short engagement at
the Salt Lake Theatre......Several grand
balls are announced to take place on Wash-
ington’s birthday.	
			POLITICAL. 
    Prominent Englishmen are of the opinion
that a great war is soon to commence in Eu-
rope......Ex-President Andrew Johnson has
been elected to the United States Senate
from Tennessee........King Alfonzo, of Spain,
is reported to participate in the opperations
of his troops in their attacks upon the Carl-
ists......A colored Civil Rights league de-
mand the passage of a bill admitting negroes
to all schools, hotels, public conveyances &c.
......A bill has passed the Senate appropriat-
ing twenty-five thousand dollars to defray
the expenses of King Kalakaua's visit......
The Hawaiian reciprocity treaty, with the
United States, is to be ratified within eigh-
teen months, and will remain in force seven
years......There is talk of an extra session of
the present congress.
			PERSONAL.
    The Emperor of China is dead and the
Empress overcome with grief has commit-
ted suicide......Garibaldi was the recipient
of a banquet given by the English and
American residents of Rome, on the 4th
inst......The Marquis of Hartington has been
chosen leader of the British liberals......The
poet Longfellow has been seriously ill......
Samuel F. Hersey, Congressman from Maine
is dead......Miss Sanglli, the favorite dancer
of Vienna is said to be fat......Miss Dolores
Drummond is the New Australian tragedi-
enne......The new speaker of the Missouri
House of Representatives, Mr. Benton G.
Boone, is a grandson of Daniel Boone......
Prince Philip, Duke of Saxony has married
Princess Louise of Belgium......Prince Bis-
marck is suffering from a nervous affection,
and is said to have concluded to retire from
public life.
			GENERAL.
    Last year, one hundred and seventy-six
persons died who were connected with the
stage......The Seine has overflowed its banks
and flooded the low lands around Paris......
Four schooners were recently blown ashore
at San Francisco......In Pennsylvania the
coal mining is generally suspended......The
Canadian canals are to be deepened......Lon-
don has a new musical periodical entitled
"The First Fiddle"......At Ghent, Columbia
Co., it is reported that the small pox is so
prevalent the railway trains do not stop
there......Darfour, of Africa has been an-
nexed to Egypt......The successor to the
Chinese throne has already been decided
upon.


﻿Mis Carrie S. Burnham, who has been
studying law for three years in Philadelphia,
presented her application before the Board
of Lawyers of that city the other day, for
the usual examination and admission to the
bar. The board declined to receive her ap-
plication, as they could find no precedent for
it, but promised to lay the matter before
the court.


FLORAL HINTS.
				St. Geo. Jan. 31st, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Your flower-loving readers have doubtless
considered our advice about their house
plants, and find them probably thriving and
doing finely—If they are not, let them stir
the soil around the plants and fertilize with
liquid manure, and once a week, put about a
teaspoonful of aqua ammonia in the water
used for a good sized plant; also give each
pot a little fine charcoal, which will cause
the bloom to be of brighter color and more
lovely.—
	If you have seeds to plant, use a little
warm water, with a small amount of spirits
of camphor poured into it. In this soak the
seeds a few hours, which will so fertilize
them, that even old seeds, and almost life-
less, will grow.
	If any one should desire to have a beauti-
ful vine trailed in the window, let them
take the tuber of a maderia vine, plant in a
pot in the usual way and they will soon
have abundants of the finest glossy, wax-
like foliage, which will need sticks to wind
on and care to keep it from injury, as the
young runners are very tender and easily
broken.
	If you would have bulbous flowers in the
time, your Tulips and Hyacinths should
now be planted. 			FLORA.


﻿LOCAL STREET SCENES.

	Some Indian women were walking up the
street the other day, having in their company
a queer looking little dog. A small boy, with
a paper of something in his hand, met them.
As they passed along, the dog turned about
and started to follow the boy. “Here, go back!"
said the little fellow gently, as he turned and
saw the dog coming after him. “Go back!” he
repeated as the dog still continued in the wrong
direction. But the animal did not heed him,
and so he went back himself a few steps and
called loudly but pleasantly and respectfully
after the squaws, directing their attention to
the fact that they were likely to loose their
dog.
	Well there is a perfect little gentleman, we
thought; and the second thought was—he has,
most likely, a good and amiable mother.
      Whenever the dusky “red skins” appear in
a doorway or at the gate, a kindly word and act
should be in readiness for them.  If they are
to be taught by their more intelligent white
neighbors, to rise above their present ignorant
and degraded position, no better method can be
adopted than to extend gentleness and charity.
	A poorly dressed, but good-natured, appear-
ing boy was walking beside a cart drawn by a
very inferior looking beast, on South Temple
Street. A crowd of big boys had collected at a


crossing. As the boy with the horse and cart
came along, the big boys all commenced shout-
ing “Wo! Ho! Ho." to stop the horse, which
they succeeded in doing, much to the annoy-
ance of the young driver. He started the poor
old horse again, when the boys shouted with
more vigor than before, and the animal was
again brought to a “stand still.” When the
perplexed driver endeavored to persuade it to
proceed, the continued shouts of the still
kept it standing there; and thus the offense
was several times repeated.
	Oh! shame, we thought; what rude, uncivil
boys! If they have had good mothers, some
mistake has certainly occured in their educa-
tion.


PROVIDENCE AND DUTY.

     People of the world are sometimes impressed 
with what are called “special providences,” not
realizing that our Father orders all things;
even our trials and what we call our misfor-
tunes, which are many times our greatest bless-
ings. We are taught as Latter-day Saints, that
by our course of conduct in a prior existence,
we predestinated ourselves to the positions 
which we occupy here; and by our course of
conduct here, we will be entitled to certain po-
sitions hereafter. Then, as children of a wise
Father, who have been privileged to receive
light and intelligence from Him, in a greater,
degree than many others of His creatures, how
faithful and diligent should we be in the per-
formance of every duty that is revealed to us 
from heaven.  Laboring earnestly in this King- 
dom will enable us to increase in that intelli-
gence which comes from God until we will fi-
nally arrive at such a state of perfection that
we can do His will here on earth, as it is done
in heaven by the angels.				C.R.


ROWING AGAINST THE STREAM.

	"'Tis not in mortals, to command respect: 	
	But we'll do more, "MY SISTERS, "we'll deserve it."
	Every day those who are stepping forward in
the march of improvement, with a determina-
tion to succeed and accomplish something cred-
itable and exceedingly desirable for woman,
are made painfully aware, by the current of op-
position which pours in upon them from all
sides, that they are literally rowing against the
stream.  Generation after generation have
yielded the palm in favor of man's superior in-
telligence, until it has become a time-honored,
authenticated, and established positivism, "im-
mutable as the laws of the Medes and Persians;"
and although there have been here and there,
striking specimens of a higher order of wo-
man's intellect than the general standard, yet
these are looked upon as exceptional digres-
sions, and not as implying any particular talent
or ability in the sex itself.
	Because there are in this wide field of labor,
those who are not genuine in their feelings and
desires, or labor under mistaken views of what
they themselves are most anxious to accom-
plish, does it prove that all are inadequate or 
inefficient?  Does the matter so stand with the
opposite sex?  Take the question home, gentle-
men. I appeal to you who labor for the ad-
vancement of true knowledge; put yourselves
in our places, equalize the thing. Are there
not those among you, who are not genuine co-
workers for the good of humanity, notwith-
standing their professions to the contrary?
Do they not do more harm than good to your
cause, even though they are zealous and fired
with enthusiasm?  And yet you would judge
us as a class, by a rule which you would re-
fuse to have applied to yourselves.


If a woman dares to stand up in public and
express her ideas, (even before her own sex) or
if she happens to differ in point of opinion
 from her husband, father, or brother, she is at
once set down as a radical. Or as belonging to
a certain “stripe of female characters,” (a term
I have heard,) who ransack the country, and
in open defiance of all the laws of propriety,
good-breeding, and modesty make for them-
 selves a standard of morality; endeavoring to
gain influence by imposing upon the unsophis-
ticated and unwary. Their strongest hold lies
with the opposite sex, who in this respect seem
to be the weaker, instead of the stronger na-
ture. They are not elevating, but degrading
womanhood. Now, with such we have no fel-
lowship, or kindred association; our cause is
one totally dissimilar in all respects. We would
represent our sex, truthfully and in an unpreju-
dicial manner. That we are more or less in
 willing bondage, we do not attempt to deny;
but it is the force of habit, of long-continued
custom, of tradition, of common and general
education; and as Shakespeare says, “A cus-
tom more honored in the breach than in the
observance.”
    Why are women slaves to fashion and style!
Men say to shine as “bright particular stars”
in the firmament of society, to excel in point
of attraction, to outdo their neighbors. But
after all, is it not to gain the admiration and
favor of the opposite sex, to captivate their
eyes or win their hearts?—which are far more
susceptible to outside attractions, than to any
genuine worth. It is proverbial that men do
not choose intellectual women for wives. They
consider them very appropriate for old maids;
this helps them to bear their CRUEL lot with a
better degree of serenity; gives them occupa-
tion in place of family cares. But for domestic
home companions—Oh no!
	The assertion is widely circulated, among
the “fair sex,” that the more shrewd, design-
ing, artful, insinuating and intriguing a woman
is, the better chance she stands of filling that
exclusive place in a husband’s affections, which
every wife has a right to expect. Does this en-
courage innocence, purity, elevation of charac-
ter, loftiness of purpose, or does it engender
virtue?
	Does not this erroneous state of things call
aloud for reform? And ought not those to be
commended, who are willing to launch forth
upon the stream of public opinion, conscious of
the justness of their cause; and with unceasing
and unhesitating energy and perseverance, row
against the stream; fearless of the storms they
must encounter, or the fierce surging of the
angry waves of popularity? If it were possible
to awaken each one to her own individual need,
would there be any occasion to stand up and
advocate reform?

	"If every one would see to his own reformation,
	How very easily you might reform a nation.

	Here at home, among those who profess to
be Saints, is the very cruelest test of our sin-
cerity and integrity in the cause we have un-
dertaken. Sneers, reproaches, taunts from
those who ought to assist us in this very work.
They cannot, or will not see we are working
for an ultimate good, for a true and permanent
elevation of character, for an independence
through one's own exertions and real merit, for
the highest culture and refinement attainable,
and for that true distinction, which is worthy
the most entire devotion of purpose. They 
look upon us with suspicion, fancy we would
undermine their influence with the opposite
sex, as opposed to all cultivation of taste in
dress, which makes them the centre of attrac-
tion and the envied of their "set."
	But let woman seek intelligence from the

[Column 2]
ountain of all knowledge, let her be mentally
and spiritually qualified and competent to
choose a companion for herself, let her under-
stand her true position aud the duty she owes
to her Creator to fulfill the measure of her cre-
ation, and she will choose wisely. One equal
at least in all things, and if possible superior to
herself. Men who would have such compan-
ions must look beyond the outward adornments
of person; and the offspring of such a union
would be calculated to rise in the scale of hu-
man progression.
	If we believe what has been prophesied to
us, that our children should fill honored posi-
tions on the earth, should do a greater work
than their parents, we ought to seek by all the
means in our power, to prepare them for the
stations they are destined to fill; that they
may fill them with wisdom and true dignity.
	Through the industry and untiring efforts of
their parents—the hardy pioneers of this new
country—by the mercies of God, our young peo-
ple are enjoying means of acquiring knowledge
heretofore unknown among us as a people.
“Knowledge is power,” certainly, but if not
rightly applied may be a power for evil. To
understand how to direct in a proper channel
the knowledge acquired, to keep in perfect con-
formity with the laws of God, and train our-
selves so as to preserve a medium in all those
more potent influences; which predominate in
the world, at the present time, is the one point
most desirable, at this time, among our youth.
If they can not be aroused to the individual
need of relying upon God and trusting to the
guidance of His Holy Spirit, they are in danger
of following after their own devices and steep-
ing themselves in ease, luxury and self-indul-
gence.
	It is this work we are anxious to assist in. We
are opening, comparatively, a primary class,
but we shall move forward, and a broader field
ot action will open for definite work, in this
timely undertaking. There is abundant room
and occupation for all; and union will lighten
the labor effectually; therefore we call upon all
who are desirous to see our children better than
their contemporaries, to lend a helping hand in
this extensive enterprise of rowing against the
stream. And above all, let us first look into
our own hearts, and see wLether we are truly
and sincerely, working for our own emancipa-
tion from the thralldom of sin, evil passions
and tendencies; and remember,

					"Real glory
	Springs from the conquest of ourselves,
	And without that, the conqueror is nought
	But the first slave."
							B.B.
Salt Lake City, Feb. 9, 1875. 
						E.B. Well


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿HOW TO GET WHAT YOU WANT.

	If you would be wise, study hard and trea-
sure up true wisdom; rich—work hard and cul-
tivate order aud economy; respected—be sure
that all your words and ways are respectable,
and that you treat others with respect; honored
—prove yourself honorable; beloved— be lova-
ble; treated with kindness and charity—so
treat your follow creatures.
	And so struggle, if your nature requires strug-
gling with, for whatever you want, trusting in
alwise Providence to direct, and if faithful you
will never fall short of your expectations.


﻿NOTICE.

	Will our Agents and subscribers please take
notice that on and after the first of January
1875, the postage on newspapers must be pre-
paid, and at the office where they are mailed


instead of at the place of delivery; and
have sent to us, ten cents postage for each
yearly subscriber? This new postal law does
not effect subscribers within the precinct of
this county.


﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	AN ITEM worthy of attention is that dried
peaches from Utah are worth from four to five
cents more in the States than those raised and
cured there.
	TRAINS ON the Utah Western rail road now
run daily between this city and Lake Point,
Clinton’s landing. And work on the Utah
Southern is progressing so finely, it is antici-
pated that early in the coming summer, the
cars will run as far South as Nephi.
	Mr. Haynes and son, of this city—lately from
Wales—have commenced the manufacture of
chain, such as is used in logging, &c. We are
always pleased to note any advancement in the
scale of progression; and one particularly in-
teresting feature in this branch of industry,
new to our Territory, is that the Messrs Haynes
can manufacture a better article at less cost than
can be obtained by importation.
	THE SALT Lake Fire Brigade have chosen
the anniversary of Washington’s birthday, for
a grand dress ball, to be given at the Salt Lake
Theatre. That the occasion will be a most
entertaining one, cannot be doubted, so well
known and generally appreciated are the noble
efforts of our Firemen, whose energies are so
liberally employed for the public good. We
acknowledge the favor of a complimentary in-
vitation.
	HIS EXCELLENCY, Governor Axtell, among
the first of his official proceedings as governor
of Utah, has shown good judgment and an
honorable purpose by straightway performing
some of the duties uselessly omitted or will-
fully neglected by his late predecessor, ex-Gov-
ernor Woods. Prominent among these official
acts was the issuing to Hon. George Q. Cannon
the certificate of election as delegate to Con-
gress from this Territory.


﻿HINTS ABOUT BEAUTY.

	There is nothing more unfavorable to fe-
male beauty than late hours. Women who,
either from necessity or choice, spend
most of the day in bed, and the night at
work or dissipation, have always a pale fad-
ed complexion and dark-rimmed, weary
eyes. Too much sleep is almost as hurtful
as too little, and is sure to bloat the person
with a palid, unwholesome far. Diet also,
has a marked influence upon personal
beauty.  Generous living is favorable to
good looks, as it tends to fill out and give
color and sleekness to the skin. A gross
and excessive indulgence, however, in eat-
ing and drinking, is fatal to the female
charms, especially where there is a great
tendency to “making flesh.” Regularity of
time in the daily repast and a scientific
cooking, are the best means of securing not
only good health, but good looks. The ap-
petite should never be wasted during the
intervals between meals on pastery, con-
fectionary or any other tickler of the appe-
tite, which gratifies the taste but does not
support the system. Exercise is, just enough
of it, and the right sort, of course, essential
to female beauty.  It animates the whole
physical life, quickens the circulation of the
blood, hightens the color, develops the
growth and perfects the form of each limb
and the entire body. It also gives elastic-
ity and grace to every movement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		ASPIRATION.

From memory's tear blotted leaf
	Fade every dream, the bright the dear;
Fade memory of every grief,
	And every hope that cost a tear.
I look back on you, calm, to-night,
	My fallen idols, without pain;
My present is so glad and bright,
	Ye cannot shade my heart again.
O Night! with closed star-eyes weep on, 
	These gladsome lights shine warmly down,—
Truth whispered, here thy rest is won;
	What care I for your chill and frown?
My baby smiled up in my face,
	A fair child sings beside my knee,
The moon seems lit with heavenly grace, 
	These are thy gifts, O Life! to me.
Deep in the dream world of my youth,
	With purpose true, for many a year; 
From out the treasuries of truth,
	Feebly I strove alone to rear 
Some structure fair of usefulness,
	To prove my spirits work within,
My songs sank into silentness,
	My pictures faded 'neath my pen.
As blossoms from the cool woodsbrought,
	Droop in the heart-flushed palms that hold;
My poor expression marred the thought
	In mystic music to me told.
O Power! that woke and stirred my mind, 
	To work beyond my feeble skill,
I know, that yet these hands will wind
	These tangled skeins into their will.
Yet shall I speak in utterance clear,	
	The new things whispered to my heart;
Forgetful, in that time of fear,
	When I in Thy	 work bear my part?
O, hearts lone, and misunderstood!
	Enough for us, He knows us best;
Falter not in the purpose good,	 
	And when at last from earth we rest;
These lights that dimly burned, will shine
	With their true splendor.  And the eyes 
Familiar, that had not divined
	Thy proper self, will recognize.
And each one, in his place, and name.
	Shrinking no more in earth-wrought thrall;
Stand understood and unashamed,
	In soul-white beauty before all. 
			AUGUSTA JOICE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, Nov.  28th, 1874.


[Column 1]
﻿		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	How to Fry Chicken.—The best fried chickens
are thus prepared:  The chickens are killed, scalded,
picked and washed out cleanly in water, then quar-
tered and thrown into boiling butter.  In a few
minutes they are done brown, and are then to be
removed and served up hot and dry, not put into
grease again.  In this way the foul is "tender as
chicken,” and is a great delicacy.  If you don't
believe it, try it, and if you do belive it, try it.
     Crusted Apple Pudding—Pare, core and stew
slightly, two quarts of tart, mellow apples, and
place them in a pudding-dish; then, to one and a
half pints of wheatmeal, add one gill of currants,
and boiling water enough to make a dough, stirring
lightly until mixed; roll it out one-third of an
inch thick, and spread over the apples.  Bake it
in a quick oven forty or fifty minutes, take out, re-
verse on a hot plate, mash the apples with a spoon,
and sweeten, if desired; cut in pieces like a pie,
and serve warm, with some fruit sauce.
	The Housewife's Table.—The following is a very
valuable housewife's table, by means of which,
persons not having scales and weights at hand may
readily measure the article wanted to form any
recipe without the trouble of weighing, allowance
to be made for an extraordinary dryness or mois-
ture of the article weighed or measured:
	Wheat flour, one pound is one quart.
	Indian meal, 1 pound, 2 ounces are one quart.
	Butter, when soft, 1 pound is 1 quart,
	Loaf sugar broken, 1 pound is 1 quart
	White sugar, powdered, 1 pound 1 ounce are 1
	quart. 
	Best brown sugar, 1 pound 2 ounces are 1 quart.
	Ten eggs are 1 pound. 

[Column 2]
	Dio Lewis's Receipt for a Bed.—Of the eight
pounds which a man eats and drinks in a day it is
thought that no less than five pounds leave his body
through the skin.  And of these five pounds a 
considerable percentage escapes during the night
while he is in bed.  The larger part of this is wa-
ter, but in addition there is much effete and poison-
ous matter.  This, being in great part gaseous in
form, permeates every part of the bed.  Thus all
parts of the bed—mattresses, blankets, as well as
sheets—soon become foul, and need purification.
The mattress needs this renovation quite as much
as the sheets.  To allow the sheets to be used with-
out washing or changing three or six months would
be regarded as bad housekeeping, but I insist, if a
thin sheet can absorb enough of these poisonous
excretions of the body to make it unfit for use in a 
few days, a thick mattress, which can absorb and 
retain a thousand times as much of the poisonous
excretions needs to be purified as often certainly
as once in three months.  A sheet can be washed.
A mattress cannot be renovated in this way.  In-
deed, there is no other way of cleaning a mattress
but by steaming it or picking it to pieces, and thus
in fragments exposing it to the direct rays of the
sun. As these processes are scarcely practicable
with any of the ordinary mattresses, I am decided-
ly of the opinion that the good, old fashioned straw
bed, which can every three months be exchanged
for fresh straw and the tick washed, is the sweet-
est and healthiest of beds.  If, in the winter sea-
son, the porousness of the straw bed makes it a
little uncomfortable, spread over it a comforter or
two woolen blankets, which should be washed as
often as every two weeks.  With this arrangement,
if you wash all the bed-covering as often as once in
one or two weeks, you will have a delightful,
healthy bed.  Now, if you leave the bed to air
with open windows during the day, and not make
it up for the night before evening, you will have
added greatly to the sweetness of your rest and in
consequence to the tone of your health.  I heartily
wish this good change could be everywhere intro-
duced.  Only those who have thus attended to this
important matter can judge of its influence on the
general health and spirits.


[Column 1]
		HYGENIC NOTES.

	FROM THE HERALD OF HEALTH.

	HOW TO AVOID COLDS.—Is there any
method of living by which one can avoid
colds and coughs in winter and spring?
	ANS.—Oh yes. These ailments may be
largely avoided by proper care. The follow-
ing hints will perhaps serve you. Never
wear wet clothes after active muscular ex-
ertion has ceased, but change them at once;
always meet the loss of body heat by warm
fluids and dry clothes; avoid long sustained
loss of heat which is not counteracted by
increased production of heat; increase the
tonicity of the vessels of the skin by cold
baths, so educating them to contract readily
on exposure; avoid too warm and debilita-
ting rooms and temperatures; take especial
care against too great loss of heat when the
skin is glowing, and to prevent the inspira-
tion of cold air by the mouth by some pro-
tecting agent, as a respirator. We can
readily understand how a respirator should
be an effective protection against winter
bronchitis in those so disposed. 
	PRECAUTION AGAINST INFECTION.—When
one watches  the sick who have such
diseases as are likely to be spread, what
precautions are to be taken to prevents the
spread of the disease from one person to
another?
	ANS.—1, Be careful to have the air of the 
sick-room pure and frequently changed.   2, 
See that all the secretions are disinfected
properly.  3, Have the Patient properly

[Column 2]
﻿bathed. The bath swallows up much poi- 
sonous matter, and a little carbolic acid in it
will be advantageous. 4, Never eat, drink, 
or sleep in the sick room, or go into it if not
needed; or go in when tired, and exhaus-
ted, or ill, or hungry.
	SCURFY HEAD.—Will you be kind enough
inform me what is good for scurf in the
head?
	ANS.—Have your head thoroughly cleaned
every week, and wear your hair short, so
the light and air can get in and the scurf
get out. It is no wonder that so many
complain of scurfy heads
	TO WARM COLD FEET.—What would
you propose to keep the feet warm, when one
has always kept their lower limbs well
clothed, and still suffers from cold feet?
	ANS.—The feet remedies are hot footbaths
at night, exercise of the feet, and care to
have the blood supplied with good food.
	CODDLING CHILDREN.—Is it wise to cod-
dle, or tenderly rear our children?
	ANS.—Yes, if you want to develop hot-
house men and women from them; other-
wise, no. To coddle means to keep in-doors
in all but fine weather, to dress too warmly
in mild weather, to feed on nicknacks, and
keep the breath of heaven from touching.
A hot-house exotic child is never safe from
the slightest changes, whereas a child accus-
tomed to cold, rarely takes cold.
	THREAD WORMS.—Please tell me what
will cure thread worms, which are  preva-
lent among children.
	ANS.—Feed them on clean, plain, whole-
some food; plenty of brown bread and milk,
and fruit. These worms do not thrive on
fruit.
	MARBLE-TOP STANDS.—Are marble-top
stands and tables healthy for invalids who
work or write near them?
	ANS.—No. They are cold, and rapidly
absorb the heat and vitality of the body,
robbing it of its life. We have heard of
one invalid whom the doctor could not cure,
till one day he noticed she used a marble
stand, and suspected it had something to do
with her ill health. So he forbade her
touching it. Soon she was cured. We
know healthy people who feel the twinges
of pain in a shoulder by sitting near one.
They are elegant articles of furniture: but
unhealthy for all that.
	CITY VS. COUNTRY CHILDREN.—Why are
city children more precocious than coutry
children?
	ANS.—Because there is more in a city to
call into exercise the brain, and less to de-
velop the body.  The rustic youth looks and
acts dull by the side of the city boy; but at
middle age he is generally the better man,
for the city youth expends his nerve force,
while the country youth store his up for fu-
ture use. The precocity of the city youth
should be retarded.  Keep them away from
balls, parties, theatres, evening amusements.
Send them to the country often. Give them
a year on a farm now and then, or teach
them a trade.
	HARDENING CHILDREN.—If children are
hardened, are not all the feeble ones killed?
	ANS.—They should not all be hardened
alike, but brought up as near as possible to
their needs.  Let the feeble ones be gently
but gradually hardened, not suddenly ex-
posed to what may kill them.  The harden-
ing process, if properly applied, will injure
none, but, on the contrary, may be made
useful to the most feeble.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRUTH AND LIBERTY.

	The most elevating and ennobling heri-
tage that God has vouchsafed to man, is en-
shrined in Truth and Liberty.  When the
mighty God of battles goes forth to combat
with falsehood and error, Truth is His
strongest weapon, and knowledge his great-
est power; Truth was revealed to man; and
lo the light of immortality broke through
the starless gloom, and made it the portal
of eternal day: that day whon the light of
revelation inspired the noble patriots that
framed the Constitution of this once glori-
ious American Republic.  Where now
are those veteran Fathers, where now is
that freedom of which the American peo-
ple have so long boasted? Is it found in our
lovely Deseret, or in New Orleans where
the mighty conflict for liberty cost the no-
blest blood of our veteran Fathers who wil-
lingly fought and died, to bequeath to their
posterity the richest legacy ever bestowed
upon man?  To the standard of Liberty,
all nations have looked with a fond hope to
find a home where freedom and equal rights
could be enjoyed by the poor and oppressed
who would come and maintain the Consti-
tion.  Shall it ever be said of the Godess
of Liberty whose proud head has been
reared by the shedding of the blood of our
veteran Fathers, that she had cause to
mourn and bow the head in shame or bathe
her cheeks in tears, that her sacred name
has been desecrated by political dema-
gogues and office seeking carpet baggers,
who love not our Country's honor but their
own aggrandisement?  God forbid!  Let every
true American citizen join in one universal
answer, no! until that sacred name LIBERTY
—shall be honored and heard to reverberate
from the Atlantic in the east to the Pacific
in the west and be re-echoed in cries of Lib-
erty from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico,
until every State and Territory shall unite
in the one great clause in the nation's con-
stitution.  "All men are born free and equal
and have the right to serve God according
to the dictates of their own consciences."
	Where is there another nation under the
whole heavens in which the Kingdom of
God could have been organized and set up,
without violating the laws of the land?
No where!  The immortal Washington, the
Father of his country, was inspired by the
spirit of truth, to raise the standard of lib-
erty where truth could exist, and find a
home in the hearts of the children of men;
to shine forth in power and splendor, until
"darkness and error shall flee away like the
mists of the morning before the noonday
sun.  Until it shall no more be said that
darkness covers the earth and gross dark-
ness the minds of the people." But peace
shall flow like a river and the knowledge of
God shall cover the earth as the waters do
the great deep.  And men shall beat their
swords into ploughshares and their spears
into pruning hooks; and the nations shall
learn war no more.  This is the mission of
Truth and Liberty, so beautifully illustrated
by the poet, P. P. Pratt, in the "Standard
of Zion."
	"The white flag so rare, still floating in air,
Proclaims 'mid the mountains that peace is now there."
	May every true patriot and friend of lib-
erty proclaim against any violation of their
constitutional rights, until "peace on earth,
and good will towards man," shall be added
to truth and liberty, and hasten the day
when the righteous shall rule.  For "when
the wicked rule, the people mourn."
							W. E.


WHEN does water resemble a gymnast?
—When it makes a spring.


﻿HOW TO TREAT THE LITTLE ONES.

	The baby's night-gown should be white
flannel.  The red flannel many mothers
fancy may poison its skin. The old-time
red dies were well enough but the present
reds are all poisonous and should not be worn
next to the skin by either old or young.
They are particularly mischievous to the
delicate skin of our young people. All of
the modern dyes are poisonous. If there are
any exceptions I have not been able to learn
the fact, although I have taken pains to
question those who are engaged in the dye-
ing business. The little ones should have
white flannel next  their skin day and night.
It is the only proper material to place next
the skin of any human being day or night,
no matter in what climate or at what season
of the year.
	Perhaps I ought to add that the superior-
ity of flannel is greater during the summer
than during the winter. In the hottest
weather a single thickness of flannel for a
night-gown will give the baby abundant
protection, whereas if it wears cotton next
to the skin it is soon wet with perspiration
and then there must be two or three more
thicknesses over it to furnish the protection
against a breeze which a single thickness of
flannel next the skin could afford. Our lit-
tle people should have their night-dresses
made with drawers closed at the bottom.
With this dress and lying upon a fresh straw
pillow, with the same for the little head and
sleeping in a little room, the small shaver
will have a chance, even in the hottest sea-
son, to not only sleep sweetly, but to grow.
Besides these and other considerations
which I will not name the woolen dress
serves, by its mechanical irritation, to
keep up a better circulation in the skin.
	Don't rock them. Don't rock them either
in crib or chair. The motion is an un-
healthy one. Try it yourself! Rock stead-
ily for half an hour and see how you feel.
I am glad that rockers are going out of
fashion. They have injured thousands of
our little people.
	Don't push them backward. Many adults
can't ride backward in the cars or in a car-
riage. When you have your little chap out
for a ride in his little carriage don't push
him backward. I have often noticed the
little passengers as they were jolted along
backward, off one stone and up another,
turning their eyes this way and that in a
painfully-bewildered way. The only avenue
to their souls is that through their eyes.
Pray don't set that all topsy-turvy.
	Don't churn its brains. Don't bounce it
on your knee or give it that great toss up
and down in your hands. No one but a
first class tumbler can stand such nonsense.
How many fatal diseases of the head have
originated in this common practice of the
nursery must have been very large. And I
have no doubt that a still greater number
must have been hurt who have contrived to
survive the stupid blunder.
	If you think your baby likes exercise rub
and knead its little naked body gently, but
thoroughly, morning and evening. This
will do wonders in giving the little fellow
not only much from your vital magnetism,
but will contribute to its circulation and
the activity of its abdominal viscera.—Dio
Lewis.


IT is better to run in old clothes than to
run in debt.

	A LITTLE girl watching the balloon ascen-
sion at Lewiston, Me., exclaimed, "Mamma,
I shouldn't think God would like to have
that man go up to heaven alive."


﻿USE OF SILENCE.

	A pity so few people understand the full
effect of well-timed silence! How eloquent
it is in reality! Acquiescence, contradic-
tion, deference, disdain, embarrasment and
awe, may all be expressed by saying noth-
ing. It may be necessary to illustrate this
apparent paradox by a few examples. Should
you hear an assertion which you may deem
false made by some one of whose veracity
politeness may withhold you from openly
declaring your doubt, you denote a differ-
ence of opinion by remaining silent. Are
you receiving a reprimand from a superior?
You mark your respect by an attentiive si-
lence. Are you compelled to listen to the
frivolous conversation of a fop? You signi-
fy your opinion of him by treating his lo-
quacity with contemptuous silence.
	Again: how much domestic strife might
have been prevented, how often the quarrel
which by mutual aggravation has, perhaps,
terminated in bloohshed, had it been
checked in the commencement by a judic-
ious silence! Those persons only who have
experienced them are aware of the benefi-
cial effects of that forbearance, which to the
exasperating threat, the malicious sneer, or
the unjustly imputed culpability, shall nev-
er answer a word. A soft answer turns
away wrath; but sometimes erring human-
ity cannot give this soft answer in moments
of irritation; in such cases, there stands the
fortress of silence, with doors wide open, as
refuge for the tired spirit until calmer mo-
ments come. Think of this seriously, you
who glory in having "the last word."


﻿FLOWERS. 

	ONE of the illusions is that the present
hour is not the critical, decisive hour.
Write it on your heart that every day is the
best day in the year. No man has learned
anything rightly until he knows that every
day is dooms-day—Emerson.
	A FRIEND of the writer, just dead, could
not tolerate evil speaking in his presence
always saying, “Don’t take the judge’s
chair.” Another, when evil is spoken
against another says, “Go on. I’m ready
to hear. Only remember, I shall go at once
to the person, and tell him all you say of
him.” Another used to exclaim, “Stop
the trial till we send for the accused, and
hear what he has to say for himself.—New-
man Hall.


﻿“ANOTHER HUSBAND.”—A lady was relat-
ing to her five-year old boy the story of a
little fellow, whose father was taken ill and
died, after which the youngster set himself
diligently to work to support himself and his
mother. When she had finished her story,
she said:
	"Now, Tommy, if pa were to die, would
not you work to help mamma?"
	"Why, ma," said the little fellow, not rel-
ishing the idea of work, "what for? Ain't
we got a good house to live in, and every-
thing so nice?"
	"Oh, yes, my child," said the mother;
"but we can't eat the house, you know!"
	"Well, ain't we got plenty of things in the
pantry?" said the young hopeful.
	"Certainly, my dear," replied the mother;
"but they will not last long—and what
then?”	
	“Well, ma,” said the little incorrigible,
"ain't there enough to last till you can get
another husband?"
	Ma gave it up.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	DOMESTIC "sauce" is kept in family
jars. 	
	WHY do women talk less in February than
in any other month?  Because it is the short-
est month in the year.
	A CALIFORNIA navy-yard clerk has in-
vented a paper cravat. He evidently hails
from Con-neck-tie-cut.—N.Y. World.
	"AM I not a little pale?" inquired a lady,
who was short and corpulent, of a crusty
old bachelor. "You look more like a big
tub," was the blunt reply.
	NOTHING will sooner tempt a bachelor to
abandon his resolutions to marry than to
sleep in the adjoining room to a young
couple with collicky baby.
	JOSH Billings says, "If yu are going to
giv a man enny thing giv it tu him cheer-
fully, and quick, dont make him git down
on his kneeze in front ov yu, nnd, listen to
the 10 commandments, and then give him
five cents."
	TWO farmers were recently heard in one
of the Wilton stores trading hens. One
would trade for 37 1/2 cents, and the other for
38 bents. Having talked about an hour one
of them declared he would not trade at 38
cents any way, for the hen was not of a
right build to lay well.
	A MAN attracted attention in Troy by his
queer demeanor. He seemed to see something
interesting in the buttons on ladies' dresses,
and in several cases was impertinent in his
close examinations. Finally he found a dress
from which a button was gone. He seized
the wearer, pulled from his pocket a button,
and compared it with those left on the
dress. It matched. She was his prisoner.
He was a detective and she had stolen the
dress.
	WILL S. Hays, the song maker, tells this
story in the Louisville Courier Journal: In
the barber shop of the Metropolitan Hotel,
in that city, he saw a tall rough looking man
leaning against the wall. A dandy came
in, took off his hat and coat, and coolly
handed them to the stranger, whom he
mistook for a barber. The stranger as coolly
hung them on a peg, and when the dandy
said, "Trim my hair," he pointed to a chair.
The encircling of the neck with a towel, and
the preliminary flourish of the shears, were
barber-like, but when the dandy felt the
hair being cropped close to the scalp, he
leaped from the chair and ran to the mirror.
"What have you done?" he shouted in de-
monstrated wrath. "Well," replied the
stranger, still cool, "you said cut it, and I
wasn't going to refuse a little favor like
that, nor make a half-way job of  it, neith-
er."


﻿Remember.—Take, heart, all who toil;
all youth in humble situations, all in ad-
verse circumstances, and those who labor
unappreciated. If it be but to drive the
plough, strive to do it well; if only to cut
bolts, make good ones; or blow the bellows,
keep the iron hot. It is attention to business
that lifts the feet higher up on the ladder.


O!	Good God, please make poor Mamma
Well!” prayed little Georgie Winslow, as he
knelt beside his mother’s bed in the sick
chamber. Georgie did not know that it was
already well with his mother, that the dear
Lord had allowed her to enter the beautiful
spirit home. But the lady who describes
the scene, says it was one of melting solem-
nity.


WOMAN’S RECORD. 

	MRS. McDonald of Calais, Me., went rid-
ing the other night, and wrapped her little
baby so closely it was smothered to death.
	JENNIE June says in her last letter: "It
is no longer a secret that Miss Anna Dick-
inson has left the platform and is studying
for the stage."
	MRS. Jamieson Livingstone, who had
lived through a century, and had been a ser-
vant to Sir Walter Scott, died recently, near
Glasgow, Scotland.
	MISS Helen M. Knowlton edits the Fine
Art department of  "Old and New," and will
hereafter occupy a prominent place in that
magazine.
	MRS. Amelia Robbins, wife of Daniel
Robbins of Conway, on the 3rd of February,
1873, gave birth to three daughters; and on
the 25th of November, 1874, she gave birth
to a son. So in 21 months four young Rob-
bins were added to the nest.
	MISS Harriet K. Hunt, M. D., who died
recently in Boston, began the practice of
medicine forty years ago, at the age of
twenty-nine.  She was the pioneer woman
doctor, and achieved a successful and satis-
factory practice.
	A LETTER from Honesdale, Pa., states
that a young woman named Crissie Haeker,
the daughter of a wealthy farmer at White
Valley, on Wednesday, under religious fa-
naticism, built an altar, and laid herself
thereon and burned herself to death.
	MADAME Emma Seiler, a German lady
residing in Philadelphia, has, since the
publication of her work entitled, "The
Voice in Singing" (1869), been recognized
as a competent authority on the subject, to
the study of which she has long devoted
herself.
	MRS. Elizabeth Weston of Detroit, aged
76, recently made a cotton shirt for her hus-
band by hand in nine hours, into which she
put eleven thousand and nine hundred
stitches, threading her needles herself, all of
which she accomplished without the aid of 
spectcles.
	MRS. Celman, isster of the late John Stu-
art Mill, recently presided at a meeting of
tailoresses in Bristol, England, and in the
course of her address, said: "For many
years she had taken a very great interest in
working men and women, and when she
saw how much had been obtained by men
as the result of combination, how their
hours of labor had been reduced and their
wages increased, she had faith that if the
women of England would only unite to-
gether, they would in a very short time ma-
terially alter their present condition."


WORKED TOO HARD.

	If woman could be free from hard labor
until she reaches the age of twenty, man-
kind would be the gainer. This is a physio-
logical matter, and the result of our inves-
tigation of  facts in this connection, and our
careful consideration of the subject, leads
us to express the hope that, if no other
subject connected with the labor question
is thought worthy of legislation, this may
be selected for legislative study and action.
No argument is necessary to convince people
of the importance of giving the years under
sixteen in a girl's life, to growth and de-
velopment of her organization, on the
healthy condition of which so much de-
pends—her own health and usefulness, not
only to herself, but to those dependent on
her.


FOR CHEAP MILLINERY AND NOTIONS,
			GO TO
		MRS. C. E. DYE'S,
		19 East Temple Street.
	She has always on hand a large variety of
LADIES', MISSES & CHILDREN'S HATS & BONNETS
		Of the Latest Style.
	Giver her a call, she will be sure to please you.
		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
				AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.30.
Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET
			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of 
	the club	-	-	-	-	-		$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club	-	-	-	-	-		  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50 	-	-	-	-	- 	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
on and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1875	No. 19


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A BILL in favor of woman suffrage has
been defeated in the Massachusetts Legis-
lature. Those Legislators have yet some
sterling truths to learn, though they may
be very wise.
	PEOPLE IN nearly all parts of the world,
as well as the Latter-day Saints, are begin-
ning to comprehend that the Co-operative
system of labor is calculated to bring about
the most satisfactory results.
	OF ONE hundred and fifty postmistresses
in Pennsylvania, not one, it is said, has ever
proved a defaulter to the Government. Can
all the postmasters who have served in any
one of the States be said to hold as bright
a claim to honesty?
	A GENTLEMAN who has seen seventy-four
winters, writing from Richmond, Massa-
chusetts, says that he never before experi-
enced so cold weather as he has there this
winter. A letter from a lady in Michigan
brings a similar report. And all through
the country almost the same story is told,
while in this Territory there has not been a
day of intense cold weather during the
whole winter.  In this respect, for once at
least, Utah has certainly been greatly fa-
vored.
	LADY COMMISSIONER.—The following dis-
patch appears in the San Francisco "Chroni-
cle" of the 17th inst:
				"Sacramento, Feb. 16.
	"To-day the Governor commissioned Ju-
lia K. Sutherland a Commissioner of Deeds
for the state of California, to reside in Salt
Lake City."
	Miss Sutherland is the accomplished
daughter of Judge Sutherland, of Salt Lake,
one of the best lawyers in Utah. The young
lady has also been commissioned a Notary
Public for Salt Lake county, and is thorough-
ly qualified for these positions, having stud-
ied under the Judge's tuition, and having
been of great assistance to him in the rou-
tine of his business for some time past. We
are pleased to note this appreciation of fem-
inine talent on the part of two distinguished
Governors.—Ogden Junction.
	MRS. DUNNIWAY of the "New North
West," contends that apathy, with some of
the women of the day, "amounts to crimi-
nal indifference." She says, "For women
who happen to have all their temporary
wants supplied to be totally unmindful of
the condition of their less fortunate sisters,
who must struggle, and that constantly for
the means wherewith to sustain the lives of
themselves and others, is a brand of selfish-
ness or thoughtlessness which no true wo-
man should be willing to carry upon her
brow." The sentiment is a noble one, and
may be applied to more subjects than that
of woman suffrage. We hold that in the
sight of Heaven, the careless, indolent wo-
man who is indifferent to the cause of po-
litical rights for her sisters, is even less cul-
pable than the ruthless one who considers
not whether a way is provided through
which her sisters may, in honor and chasti-
ty, enjoy hymeneal and maternal rights, so
long as she has been or may be kindly fa-
vored with the possession of those rights.


[Column 1]		
		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	JEAN Ingelow has written a new serial
story entitled "Fated to be Free."
    	MARY Clemmer Ames says Speaker Blaine
is brilliant; Mrs. Blaine impressive.
	MRS. Almena H. Bass has been appointed
postmistress at East Acworth, N.H.
	QUEEN Victoria won the first prize for
pigs at a recent cattle show in London.
	A GRANDDAUGHTER of Dr. Paley has
beaten all the boys at Cambridge in moral
science.
	MISS Gertrude Pillow, daughter of Gen.
Pillow, has shot a bear near Old Town Land-
ing, Ark.
	KATE King is the Washington correspon-
dent of the Cleveland Leader. Her letters
are about "medium."
	MRS. Bryan of Abington, Ill., took 122
premiums, amounting to $1,150, on her cat-
tle, at the Fairs last fall.
	MISS Thompson of "Roll Call" renown
has been elected a member of the Institute
of Painters in Water Colors.
	MRS. Beecher and Mrs. Tilton are regular
attendants at the great Tilton-Beecher trial,
now in progress in Brooklyn.
	LADY Franklin offers $10,000 to any Arc-
tic explorer who will recover the records
and papers of her late husband.
	MISS Carrie Clark, daughter of Henry S.
Clark, lately deceased, has been appointed
express agent in Northampton, Mass.
	THE will of Mrs. Ann White Vose of Bos-
ton makes the remarkable bequest of $365,
000 to the public institutions of that city.
	MRS. E Manchester, familiarly known as
"Aunt Lizzie Manchester," died at Pitts-
town, Rensselaer Co., N.Y., lately, aged 105.
	REV. Phebe A. Hanaford, Miss Lelia E.
Patridge and Rev. Adda C. Bowles have
been recently lecturing acceptably in Phila-
delphia.
	THE annual ladies' reception of the Union
League Club of New York took place on the 
evening of Jan. 26th, and was a pleasant
occasion.
	EVERY daughter of the Queen of Eng-
land knows how to cook and keep house,
which shows that queens are not always de-
void of sound sense. 
	MISS Lizzie Hess, M.D., who graduated
in the Medical Department of the Iowa State
University, with the highest honors of her
class, thus far has met with very gratifying
success in practice.
	MISS Nancy Monell of St. Johns gradua-
ted at a medical institute in New York, and
is now superintendent of a large hospital
at Lucknow, India, at a salary of $5,000 per
year and all expenses paid.
	MRS. S.A. Gifford of Worcester, Mass., 
Rev. Mrs. Gustin of Attleboro, Mrs. M. L. 
Draper of Boston and Mrs. Dr. Spetigue of
Cambridgeport addressed a mass temper-
ance meeting held in the First Methodist
Church of Worcester, recently. 

[Column 2]
	MISS Bancroft, the young lady who was
recently married to Count Tziecuzksi, has
now got a name which is the nearest ap-
proach to the phonetic spelling of a sneeze
that has yet been made. 
	MRS. Mary Whitman Eddy, wife of Dea.
Morton Eddy of Fall River, and widely
known as the successor of Mary Lyon in the
principalship of Mt. Holyoke Seminary,
died on the 6th ult., aged sixty-six years.
	DRS. Mary E. Speek and Mary S. Parsons,
colored graduates of Howard University,
having been refused admission to the medi-
cal society of the District, an organization
chartered by Congress, have petitioned
Congress that the charter of the society be
amended so that they may not be excluded
from it.
	MRS. Alice Cooley, who recently died at
Brookfield, Mass., at the age of 100 years,
was married on the first day of the present
century, in the twenty-fifth year of her
age, and went to her new house, where she
resided till Jan. 1, 1875, a period of just 75
years, when she died. She was a lady of
rare beauty and saintliness of character.
     ONE of the girl weavers in the Merchants
Mill, Fall River, was lately discharged, for
beginning work late, whereupon the other
weavers stopped work and would not begin
again until they extracted a promise from
the overseer that the looms of the girl
should stand idle until a settlement was ar-
rived at. The weavers then continued
work.


STOUT ENGLISH GIRLS.

	A correspondent of the Hartford "Times,"
writing from a Swiss inn, says: "A few
days ago just at dusk, after a cold rain had
set in, two English girls and their hand-
some, gray-haired father arrived.  They
were cold and damp, and the hotel was cold
and damp, and as we sat by our blazing fire
and heard them go into their cold rooms we
pitied them so much that we opened our
door and invited them to share our warmth
and comfort—so they came in and we chat-
ted together all the evening. Those two
bright, fresh-looking girls sat calmly in
their chairs and told us they had crossed
from Meiringen to the Rhone Glacier over
the Grimsel on foot the day before, through
a foot of snow—had walked nine miles down
the valley that morning, and then had
climbed up all the way from Viesch to the
hotel on foot in the rain that afternoon. We
looked at them aghast and murmured
'Tired?' 'O, no,' they briskly chorused:
and indeed they did look most provokingly
fresh and pretty. When we appeared in
the morning, father (who always comes in
to breakfast from out of doors with a blast
of cold air very much as if he had slept on
the nearest glacier) announced that ‘those
English girls started to walk up to the sum-
mit of the Eggischorn two hours ago and
are coming back in time to cross the Aletach
Glacier to go to the Belle Alp for the night!'
Before long they came in, brisk and rosy as
usual: 'Oh, no! not tired at all!'—and with-
out waiting for anything more than a lunch
were off again. We groaned in spirit as we
saw them disappear around a promontory."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		TO E. R. SNOW.

Seventy-one! can this be so,
And thy heart still throb with so fresh a glow?
Thy step so firm, and so warm and bright
The kindly beam of thy dark eye's light.

Hand ever ready the weakest to guide,
Drifting along in life's billowy tide;
Voice lifted high in the conflict for right,
And whispering peace to the soul in dark night.

Time has not frozen the fountain of love,
Pure and unfailing it flows from above;
And freely 'tis given earth's children to bless,
In times of rejoicing or deepest distress.

Priceless the seed which in this life you sow,
And priceless the fruits which thy harvest shall know;
Seed that will spring forth in glory and might
In the souls of the sons and the daughters of light.

Zion would bless you as onward you go,
Still bless and be blessed as you journey below,
Still sow the germs that will blossom so bright
In a crown for thy head in the mansions of light.

A crown all unfading, eternal, divine.
Where thorns never more with the roses will twine,
Where never more bitter will mingle with sweet,
Nor rough be the pathway, nor weary the feet.

Thy works all await thee on heaven's bright shore,
The blessings of Zion have too gone before.
The thanks of the hungry which thy hand hath fed,
The prayers of the souls which thy counsel that led.

May you live till God's people are ransomed and free,
Live till the wicked from Zion shall flee,
'Til the warfare is ended, the victory won.
Then hear the glad tidings—"Thy work is well done."
										HOPE.


R. S. REPORTS.

		AMERICAN FORK, Feb. 9th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association of this city, was organized on
the 6th inst., under the superintendance of
Mrs. I. Durrant and Mrs. E. Eastmond. Miss
Mary Eastmond was chosen for President;
Miss Emily Abel, Mrs. Phebe Petersen, Miss
Jane Harrington, Miss Esther Hindley,
Miss Susannah Alston and Miss Henrietta
Henriot for Counsellors; Miss Elvina Cromp-
ton, Secretary; Miss Clara Wrighty assistant
Secretary, and Mrs. E. Durrant as Treasurer.
It was thought advisable to have a small
Fund for the purchasing of books, &c., for
the use of the Association.  There were
sixty-five names enrolled that day, and there
are others who will join that could not at-
tend then.  Bishop L. E. Harrington, Bros.
Hindley, Wm. Jackson, and others, gave
some good instructions on the object of the
Association, encouraging the young ladies
to go on in the good work, and set an exam-
ple to the young men worthy of imitation.
An address by Miss E. R. Snow, to the
young ladies of Provo, was then read from
the EXPONENT, being very appropriate to
the occasion.  Meetings are to be held each
alternate week.  We hope to be able to say
in the future a good work has been done,
which may our Heavenly Father grant, is
the desire of your humble sister in the Gos-
pel,				MRS. MARY HINDLEY.


[Column 1]		
		LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE.

							Feb. 16th, 1875.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	What with the children, and the flowers,
planting garden, getting three meals a day
—washing, ironing, mending, making clothes
and the odd thousand cares of a woman
with a large family one gets very little time
to write even the letters that should go to
friends, much less time for THOUGHT, to fur-
nish something readable for the paper.—But
there is one great thought that has been re-
volving and growing larger in my mind,

[Column 2]
and I feel that I should unburden and let it
out as I did to a sister that called upon me
the other day. She was telling me what a
time she had with her children—two girls
and four boys. The girls she could manage
—but the boys! goodness—she couldn’t
keep track of them—they were always off,
in streets or somewhere. The other day one
came home with a bloody nose—got hurt in
a fight. A few days before another had
been thrown from a wild horse and got his
ankle sprained—a smaller one had fallen in-
to the fire of a brush heap, the other night,
while in company with some young hood-
lums—and next she expected some of them
would get killed, and she could not tell why
she COULD not manage her children—She
whipped, scolded, and threatened them
every day but they wouldn’t mind—John,
the oldest would go off every night and
stay out late, and she could not coax him to
stay at home, he always had to “see some-
body” or had an errand down town—and to
her grief and horror, 'tother night he came
home more than half tipsy—and she wept
in much distress—and when she had exhaust-
ed herself relating her troubles, she asked
me, "HOW DO you manage your boys that
they are always at home and steady and
never drunk, do not smoke, nor chew tobac-
co, nor get into trouble—do tell me! Well
says I,—I manage my children a little differ-
ent from any body else—I try to make
HOME the most pleasant of all places in
town, and thus my children do not wish to
go away, but their companions are attracted
to them here. And so I am always enabled
to watch over all their sports and amuse-
ments, and to advise, correct, or reprove as
need may be. "Why certainly," says she, "I
always try to have them do so too, but they 
wont." Well, says I, perhaps you don’t provide
them the means proper and necessary for
their amusement. "What do you mean?"
she asked, "I'm sure I give them all anybody
can need. I feed them regularly—give them
gcod clothes, have a warm house, a Bible,
Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants
and sometimes borrow a "Desert News" for
them to read. Now what more can one do?"
My Dear Sister, says I—children must be
studied, and managed and led, or they will
not be a success. Their minds are weak—
tender—early led and turned from good or
evil. Their minds are active and must have
occupation. Too much labor tires—too much
study stupefies,—so the mind must be fed
with light as well as heavy food. If you
would catch flies, don't use a vinegar bait
If you want your children to stay at home
make home attractive, pleasant, delightful,
STOP SCOLDING and thundering, burn up the
rods—rule by love. When they are a little
noisy or boisterous in the house, don't scold
or turn them out of doors, but join them in
their fun. Appear interested in their
amusement and then you can manage them
easily. Give them such reading as they
like,—good stories, funny reading, puzzles
—picture and toy books. Then for a change,
get different games, learn them their use
and sometimes play with them, and don't
live away up in another atmosphere from
your children. Go down where they live,
and stay there much of your time—then
your children will love you and are gov-
erned. "But" says she " I don't understand
half you say, about the reading and games
and other ways to keep children, and I am
so interested please tell me just how you do.
So I took her into the other room, I showed
her our shelves full of nice books, papers
and magazines, for children to read—showed
her the winter flower garden and how each
one of the children owned and attended a
part—then showed her the games, blocks, 

[Column 2]
cut cards—chess—checkers—dominoes and
other sources of amusement.—Then the lit-
tle room used as a museum—where all curi-
osities—bugs—insects—stuffed animals curi-
ous pictures and a thousand things are laid
around. I told her each child assisted in
the collection, of flowers, plants, insects, an- 
imals,—curious rocks, ores, and pebbles; and
then the play grounds and the little out
doors garden of each—and then we strolled
around the gardens, orchard and vineyard
—the fruit being one of the greatest attrac-
tions for the little ones, in its seasons.—
“Well,” says she, "this is all wonderful,
and new to me I never before thought of
such ways to manage children—and I don't
wonder with one so kind as you and so
many ways of enjoyment, that you get
along with your children so well. I mean
to turn over a new leaf and try your plan,
and the poor woman went off quite comfor-
ted.
 	Well really Ive been so intent and inter-
ested in telling about the poor woman that
my bread has got scorched—and dear me!
here comes Willie, crying, poor little fellow!
—he has been out poking sticks in entrance
of beehive and has got stung. But there.
I held a little wet mud on the place for a 
few minutes and the pain has gone.—O
dear! I used to wish Willie would get big
enough to walk, so he would be less trouble,
but goodness sakes! it seems ten times more
trouble now. He goes everywhere—is in
every possible mischief all the time—and I 
believe I'd rather have two or even three
babies to care for.—Well I must get the lit-
tle toddler asleep.
			As ever,
						FLORA.


EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In the vale of Avon, within sight of and
on the grounds of the castle that stands on
the margin of that classic river where the
immortal Shakespere first drew breath, I
received the life that has been preserved for
near sixty years, and intelligence respect-
ing that future life to which we are all hast-
ening. The faith then implanted in my
bosom by a mother's teachings, has grown
into a closer acquaintance with God than
faith implies; for this I thank my mother—
as well as my Father who is in the heavens!
Hence my first effort, in responding to your
kind invitation, is naturally influenced by
remembrances of her teachings, and no
name seems so appropriate to be known by
as that of the place where I received my
first inspirations.
	Dear Sister, most respectfully I subscribe
myself,				AVONDALE.

					For the EXPONENT.
			MY MOTHER.

			BY AVONDALE.

	My Mother has been dead now more than
fifty years. She taught me to have faith in
God; at that time the hydra-headed mon-
ster that has developed into modern Infidel-
ity had not taken the hideous shape it has
to-day.  In those days folks went to church,
and, if what the parson said "went in one
ear and out of the other" people didn't re-
vile at religion. They had not found out
the way then to be irreligious on scientific(?)
principles; to prove that there is no God by
the perfection of the whole, and the auto-
matic simplicity of the parts, of these grand
creations we live in.
	Well, mother taught me to pray. I do
not remember the form or words used, but
I do remember she taught me to feel as if I


was in the presence of God. Now-a-days
some people would laugh at this kind of
education.
	I often think of the small seed then im-
planted in my mind and try to describe it
to myself and others, but words fail me.  I
saw by her eve, I felt in my soul, and—I
can’t tell it.
	She was a mother; I have seen, I do see
women like her, and I love them. O what
a mighty power is with the mother!  For
good or for evil, it must be so.
	Education! Wide as the base of the pyr-
amid which towers to heaven and stands
unshaken for a thousand years, is that which
is built on faith in God. But crumbling and
confounding as the tower of Babel is that
which is erected in unbelief. With the
mother is the responsibility of laying the
foundation of education in the child from
the moment it can begin to think, perhaps
before.
	Yes; it was a small seed that was sown
by my mother, but, had that not been plan-
ted some other would have been. That
which grows first may crowd out the next.
When unbelief grows and grows, it is diffi-
cult to root it out; it spreads, and poisons
as it spreads. As it is I have received the
Gospel; others with larger capacities to re-
ceive intelligence have no room for the
Truth. They may not have had a mother
to inspire them with faith when they were
by her side in childhood.
	This is a great power to wield. It is a
great thing to be a mother, to light the
lamp of life in a child and link it to the
earth for three score years and ten; how
much greater to unite it to the heavens and
to impart a light and life that will never
dim and never die!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MOTHERS, TEACH YOUR DAUGHTERS.

	I am inclined to think we are apt to un-
der-estimate the abilities of the girls of the
present time. If they could have a little
better chance and much more credit for
what they do, we should soon see a great
improvement. There are few, especially
farmer's daughters, but know how to per-
form various kinds of household duties.  If
they do not, the fault is not all their own.
I think girls now-a-days just as ambitious
as they were in our grandmothers' days—
grandmothers' stories to the contrary not-
withstanding.  People are so very forgetful.
There is a time when every child is anxious
to learn about everything, especially what
mother does, and they are too frequently
put off until some other time.
	It requires much patience and not a little
skill to teach new beginners, but it must be
done or they must remain in ignorance, and
when they are grown up bear the blame.
They can't learn just by seeing mother do
the work day after day; they must have
experience to do a piece of work well. If
mother would teach them how to do, then
leave the care to them, let them feel that the
result depended on them, they would make
use of what they had learned and at the
same time take an interest in the work. We
should not expect them to do as well as an
old, experienced hand at first; but praise
them all you can and pass the mistakes by
lightly as possible. It will give them cour-
age to try again. And soon they will take
much of the care off mother's mind, and
be a constant delight to their parents. They
would feel better contented at home, and
save their parents pain and mortification in 
after years when they leave the paternal
roof for other homes, where no mother will


be near to superintend the work or teach
them how to begin.  Domestic economy
must begin at the commencement in order
to prove effectual in all our ways.
			A YOUNG FARMER'S WIFE.
	—In R. N. Y.


THE TRUE RELATION OF THE
			SEXES.

	There can be, then, no real conflict of in-
terest between man and woman, since there
is a mutual dependence upon each other
bringing mutual good. Neither can it be a
misfortune to be a woman, as so many at
the present day would have us believe, al-
though her position may be in some respects
subordinate to that of man.
	In fact the subordination of man to wo-
man, different in kind from its converse, is
equally apparent; both seem to be matters
of consciousness.  It may be readily seen
how, in early times, when muscular strength
and physical power were held in the high-
est esteem, that the position of woman
should have been a subordinate one. Ani-
mal courage, endurance of physical hard-
ships, the strength, cunning, and agility,
which enabled men to cope with wild beasts
and with each other, were the traits of char-
acter most prized, because most conserva-
tive to life in those barbarous times; hence
the idea that, woman's position is naturally
a subordinate one, has acquired the force of
a primal intuition, and might almost be
claimed a "datum of consciousness." But,
as the necessities of existence have been
gradually modified by civilization, both the
character and the degree of her subordina-
tion have notably changed.
	Those qualities, regarded preeminently
feminine, have risen in common estimation
and mere muscular superiority, and even in-
tellectual power, are now put to the test of
comparison with the higher moral qualities.
—From "Woman's Place in Nature," in
Popular Science Monthly for January.


WINTERGREENS.
	The evergreen trees that cover the hills
and sprinkle the rich shades through our
American forests never seem so beautiful as
in the winter, when the ground is bare or
snow-covered and the branches of other
trees are leafless. They relieve the land-
scape of its dreariness, and add an element
of beauty and hope to the otherwise cheer-
less spectacle. There is something very
grand and suggestive in a noble pine or fir
that stands up clothed and courageous in
the midst of wintry desolation, when the
fields are covered with a snowy winding
sheet and the rest of the forests have yield-
ed their foliage to the blasts. They seem
to say to the frost, "We are more than a
match for your rigors;" and to the mourning
world they tell of continuous life and prom-
ised renewal.
	It is delightful to have green things to
look at in the winter. A single plant in a
room gives it a cheery look. There is a
great deal of companionship in a few plants
and flowers in the close apartments of a city
home in the winter, when the sky lowers
and the prospects out of doors are bleak and
forbidding. It is surprising what pleasure
can be got out of a half dozen brown earth-
en pots for three months of the year.
Surely wintergreens are an admirable in-
vention, and whoever is fortunate enough
to have them would thank the inventor in
feeling if not in words.  The eye and the
heart both crave green things in the win-


ter, and it is a suggestive fact that the cold-
er the climate and the longer the period of
snow the more evergreens grow. The sea-
son requires just that contrast of colors, that
offset to its desolateness.
	The wintergreens of life are still more
needed and welcomed at this season. The
cold drives us in on ourselves. It shuts us
up within doors. It forces us back upon
the warm places of the heart. The more
storms and sleet without, the more closely
we nestle together and draw on the beauti-
ful sympathies and charities of human na-
ture. There is a foliage of sociability, a
flowering of kindness and good will, an out-
growth of sympathy and charity which seem
never so lovely as in the winter time, and
are prized and cherished by those who have
them as the costliest exotics of a tropic
clime. The gaiety and gladness and mirth
which spring spontaneously from the best
natures in dull months are wintergreens
that it were far better worth the while to
cultivate than any plants and shrubs that
can be brought from the conservatory. The
one great art in which Americans are too
deficient is that of home-keeping.  We
build fine houses, and fill them with showy
and costly furniture. We spend fortunes
on pictures, upholstery, servants, plate and
other things to set off our circumstances and
adorn our state. But sometimes we go out
of our elegant mansion into some fourth-
story flat and find a little parlor so cosy and
cheery, so bright and hope-hued, when there
is nothing in it to speak but a few cheap ar-
ticles of furniture and a dozen plants and a
canary bird in the window and a baby on
the floor, that we wonder what the charm
consists in and almost wish to exchange
places without boot. It is wintergreens.
It is the art of leafage. It is the graceful
flowering of the heart when the world is
bare and the skies are black. And it is
more of this wintergreen that is wanted to
make our homes beautiful and our lives one
prolonged summer.—"Golden Age."


HOW THEY LOOK.

	Every one has a curiosity to know how
celebrated people look; and so we will des-
cribe a few women prominent as writers or
lecturers.
	Mrs. Stanton is a handsome woman. Miss
Anthony and Mrs. Livermore are both
plain. Marie and Jane Porter were women
of high brows and irregular features, as was
also Miss Sedgwick. Anna Dickenson has
a strong masculine face; Kate Field has a
good-looking, though by no means a pretty
one, and Mrs. Stowe is positively homely.
Alice and Phoebe Cary were both plain in
features, though their sweetness of disposi-
tion added greatly to their personal appear-
ance.  Margaret Fuller had a splendid head,
but her features were irregular, and she
was anything but handsome, though some-
times in a glow of conversation she ap-
peared almost radiant.  Charlotte Bronte
had wonderously beautiful dark brown eyes
and a perfectly shaped head.  She was
small to diminutiveness, and was as simple
in her manners as a child.  Julia Ward
Howe is a fine-looking woman, wearing an
aspect of grace and refinement, with great
force of character in her face and carriage.
Laura Holloway resembles Charlotte Bronte,
both in personal appearance and in the the sad
experience of her young life.  Neither
Mary Booth nor Marian Harlan can lay claim
to handsome faces, though they are splen-
did specimens of cultured women, while
Mary Clemmer Ames is just as pleasing in
features as her writings are graceful and
popular.—EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1875.


[Column 1]			
			SPLINTERS.

			LOCAL.

	Professor Riggs, the Territorial school
Superintendent, says that there are more
than thirty three thousand children in Utah,
of the proper age for attending school......
President Young and company arrived in
this city, from St. George, on the 19th ult.,
in good health.....The Firemen's grand, dress
ball, given on the 22nd ult.—Washington’s
birthday,—was a note worthy affair, not
soon to be forgotten by the participants......
The construction of railroads in Utah is con-
stantly and rapidly increasing, but no credit
mobiliering is expected from the honest and
honorable gentlemen concerned in them.

			LITERARY.

	Darwin has a new book in press, which
treats of the insectivorous and climbing
plants......A new dictionary by Dr. H. Dun-
bar of the Edinburg University is soon to
be circulated......The Millennial Jubilee of
Iceland, has suggested to Rev. P. C. Headly,
the writing of a book entitled "The Island
of Fire, or A Thousand years of the Old
Northmen's Home," which is reported to be
a highly interesting work.

			POLITICAL.

	It is now reported that disturbances have
arisen at Pekin, China, on the question of
the successor to the throne......The country
of Darfur has been annexed to Egypt......
The Senate has rejected the Reciprocity
Treaty with Canada.......In the Pennsylvania
Legislature, the Committee on Vice and
Immorality report in favor of the repeal of
local option......The Ways and Means Com-
mittee in the House of Representatives,
have rejected in full, the proposition for a
restoration of the duties on tea and coffee
......Seven States, California, Connecticut,
Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, New Hamp-
shire and Oregon hold no Legislatures this
winter. The Legislatures of the other
thirty States are now in session......The in-
surgents in Peru lately tried to take the city
Arequipa, but were defeated......In the
French Assembly, a bill for the creation of
a senate has passed......In the Maine Sen-
ate, Rev. Mrs. Hanes lately officiated as
Chaplain, being the first woman who has
ever acted in that capacity in the Legisla-
ture.

			PERSONAL.

	Spurgeon refuses to come to America for
the purpose of lecturing......Gilmore is giv-
ing concerts in Boston......Clara Morris is in
San Francisco......Sir Edward Thornton
lately gave a dinner in the new English Le-
gation building at Washington......Isabella
Wallace, a descendent of Sir William Wal-
lace, died recently in England, at the age of
one hundred and two years......Kate Field
is pronounced a failure on the stage, but still
persists in trying to become an actress......
Bayard Taylor is engaged to lecture at Cor-
nell University, New York, next summer
......Thomas O. Blair, of Newcastle, Indiana,
is a young naturalist who advertises for cor-
respondents among the young naturalists of
the country......Senator Sargent of Califor-
nia has been ill......A ten year old girl has
been kidnapped from the Convent school in
New York......Nelse Seymour is dead. He
was a favorite minstrel in London, known
as the "American comedian"......M. Ecttick,
a colored man of Brooklyn, died recently of
hydrophobia.

			INDUSTRIAL.

	Chicago is to have a new Court House and
City Hall......The Astor house of New York
is closed for repairs......Massachusetts cot-
ton mills have enforced a reduction of 10

[Column 3]
per cent. on wages......Workmen on the
Hudson river, employed by ice companies,
have struck against the reduction of wages
......In New York, the boot and shoe busi-
ness is beginning to increase......At Balti-
more, greater activity and energy is exhibi-
ted than for several months past......The
"sovereigns of industry"—the Grangers are
increasing rapidly, especially in New Eng-
land......A thirty-five ton engine known as
the "Sacoi," has recently been completed by
the Boston and Maine Railroad companies
......A Grange warehouse is to be built at
Van Wert, Ohio, to cost $20,000

			CASUAL.

	Many injuries to sailing craft were re-
cently occasioned by a terrific gale accompa-
nied by storms of rain, on the British 
coast......There has been a great flood in the
river Seine; the water has been so high at
Paris that steamers could not pass under the 
bridges......The Railroad bridge on the Sus-
quehanna has been burned......Losses by fire
in New England during the month of Jan-
uary, amounted to $1,023,457.


[Column 1]
		PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

	It is estimated by the coroner of London,
that in that great city alone, TWELVE THOU-
SAND MOTHERS annually, murder their babies
aftertheirbirth. In New York, it is calculated
that the fetus and child murders are DOUBLE
that number.
	Much as the Mormon system of marriage is
talked about in the outside world, ignorant and
degraded as its women adherents are consider-
ed, we have yet to learn of the first instance of
such a crime having been committed by a
Latter-day Saint mother.
	The highest, holsest ambition of the true
Mormon mother is to keep her children in
purity and health, making them in every pos-
sible respect superior to herself. Whether a
woman be a first or plural wife matters not in
regard to these morthy aspirations, her love for
the precious charge committed to her care by
a merciful God is ever the same.
	Compare the difference between this fact and
the condition of communities such as people
ondon and New York, O! ye wise(?) men, ye
saintly, virtuous(?) women who have such a
holy horror of polygamic or celestial marriage!
And let common sense instead of prejudice—
natural, womanly instinct instead of sickly
spleen answer for you, which state of society
can be justly looked upon as most enobling and
exalting not only to woman but to the whole
human race.
	A lady, who was among the first to accept
the doctrine of celestial marriage as revealed
to Joseph Smith, and who has been in plural-
ity for upwards of thirty years, testifies that
had she understood the principle when she

[Column 2]
first received it as a message from God, as she
now does, she would have hailed it with great
delight and joy. But it was not generally giv-
en to the fathers and mothers of the young
people in Zion to comprehend the necessity of
adopting such a system of marriage, when it
was first introduced into the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. Even as Abra-
ham went forth to sacrifice his son, so they
were required to observe the law and keep the
commandments of God, without fore knowl-
edge. Whereas the present condition of the
world compaerd with the condition of the
true Latter-day Saints, is sufficient evidence to
a mind enlightened with any degree of the
spirit of God upon the subject, of the great
good which has been and will be done through
the medium of this system of plural marriage.
And also of the great necessity for its being ad-
mitted as a tenet of the gospel of Christ when
His church was established in these latter
days.
	These truths are patent to the minds of many
young men and women connected with the
Church; and our exhortations to such friends
are, that they will give due consideration there-
unto.
	Young wives and maidens—young brethren
too—shall we not prove to our God, ourselves
and the world that our parents have not failed
in their efforts to instill into our hearts the
eternal principles of truth which lead to ever-
lasting life and happiness? If we have seen
our parents suffer in consequence  of not un-
derstanding the correct ways of life, let us not
condemn any true principle on that account;
neither doubt the pure motives of either par-
ent, as some sons and daughters have done,
while fully aware that both are and ever have
been desirous of doing the will of God. But
we may profit by the experience through
which we have seen them pass, as well as by
their teachings and testimonies to us concern-
ing the words and works of our Heavenly Fa-
ther. We can observe wherein they have fal-
len short at times through want of knowledge;
and while humbly blessing them for their kind
teaching, and rendering all due respect, we
should look upon their mistakes as timely
warnings for us. Where they have stumbled,
they have left way-marks for our guidance,
which, if we heed while passing on in life,
will enable us to shun many dangerous places,
into which we might otherwise stray blindly
as they have done. But we must walk in all
humility and gentleness, and ever beware, that
we make not, ourselves, the grand mistake
of all, in presuming that we may benefit our-
selves, and escape the ills, the trials and sacri-
fices which our parents have known, by forsak-
ing the ways of eternal life and light for things
less holy. We must stand bravely by the prin-
ciples of truth and righteousness for which our
parents have endured so many privations and
hardships. And where sons see that their fa-
thers have made missteps and brought unnec-
essary afflictions on their families, let them
seek for wisdom to avoid like errors, but suffer
not their lips to utter or their hearts to feel
ought against any sacred law pertaining to the
Gospel. Daughters who have the experience
of their mothers, as well as the additional
light which has been poured forth to aid them,
should be able to live in accordance with the
requirements of the Gospel without enduring
those heart pangs to which their mothers have
been subjected most frequently through a lack
of wisdom and light concerning the principles
which they knew to be true but had not
learned to practice in perfection.
	Still, the young in Zion, even those who
have been born in the priesthood, need not


think to escape all trials and hardships; for
"there is no royal road to learning;"—this rule
applies to religious as well as intellectual edu-
cation—neither are blessings promised save
through sacrifice.
	Neither the Saints nor the children of the
Saints are yet perfect; and until they are suffi-
ciently cleansed and purified, until they are
worthy to dwell in the presence of the holy
angels and their Lord and Savior for which
they pray, the process of purification will not
be stopped. But those who hold to the faith
are constantly improving. The present gener-
ation is becoming qualified for the accom-
plishment of greater things than have been
achieved by the former; and the next will be
still more improved; by and by we shall have
arrived at that state of perfection which every
good Latter-day Saint is striving to reach.
May we not falter by the way and may God
help us.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LET RIGHTEOUSNESS RULE.

	In casting our thoughts to the grand consti-
tution that has been framed and accepted as
a guiding angel to a nobel people's prosperity
and happiness, we cannot but deplore the re-
cent impolicy of those whose duties were to
apply each wise principle of our government
so that every true man and woman on the
broad surface of this land might exclaim "It
is just. Our rights are recognized; our peace
secured." But too truly the reverse do we see.
National peace is fast becoming a theme only
to be remembered. Civil strife is the gossip of
the hour. Knavish politicians often rule the
senate, and personal merit likewise disregard-
ed. To-day precious human liberty is hanging
on a thread.
	How ardent were the anticipations of our
forefathers when they had securely planted the
seeds of freedom's progress on this fertile soil.
The confusion of the times is almost loud
enough to recall them from their quiet slum-
bers and excite them to words of stern rebuke.
What has become of the idea "Brotherhood,"
that once swelled the bosoms of America's
children.
	Learning and science have failed to make us
kind, just, equal. A train, and a long train too,
of unscrupulous office holders on one side, and
an ignored, unlettered, oppressed populace on
the other, is dividing the nation asunder.
Every heart longs for independence, and we
have a right to it. Stifle the flame of true am-
bition in the breast, and how much courage is
there left? God made us all, and he never in-
tended for one human being to trample on an-
other. The earth is rich enough to prosper all
her children, but a few are wrapped in luxury,
and the many go uncomforted. Human laws
humanly exercised, will make a nation politi-
cally rich, contented and heroic. When our
government feels to accord to its every son and
daughter their perfect and equal rights; when
sterling worth, instead of inglorious gold, takes
the conspicuous chair of influence; when re-
wards are meted out for the good that is actu-
ally done; when men's brains are more solid
than their purses; then will the Constitution
of our country be made subservient to the good
it was intended.					KENT.


COOKING.

	No branch of practical education is of great-
er importance than that of cooking and pre-
paring food. Upon this subject, the sentiments
of a highly educated English lady who is also
an excellent cook, are in substance, "Alas!
how these men do err, when they consider the
kitchen the only proper place for girls after


they have learned to read and write. Cooking
belongs to the sciences. Our girls who are ex-
pected to, at least take the oversight of the du-
ties of housewives, if not to perform the actual
labor, should study chemistry, physiology &c.
And when they have thus learned how to prop-
erly compound the proper materials for a loaf
of bread, cheerfully will they perform the task.
But how can it be expected that a woman who
is ignorant of these first principles shall cook
intelligently."
	It is doubtless the case that sickness occas-
ioned by the partaking of food is often the re-
sult of bad cooking and a want of knowledge
how to prepare certain kinds of victuals. And
that good articles are condemned as unwhole-
some, while the fault is occasioned entirely
through injudicious management. Besides
this, great waste is often engendered through
ignorance, even where extravagance is not
intended.
	If some  of our intelligent mothers, who
have through years of experience, observation
and study gained a correct understanding of
these things for themselves, would establish
schools in which the girls might be taught the
proper method of housekeeping in its various
branches, much time and expense as well as
useless anxiety and perhaps ill temper might
thus be saved in future homes.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDER F. A. Mitchell and family recently re-
turned to their home in this city, from the
Sandwich Islands. Many friends warmly wel-
come them and are pleased to find them all in
good health.
	THE CHURCH Emigration fares for this sea-
son, the agent, C. W. Staines reports, will be
fifty-one dollars for each adult from New York
to Ogden, and about forty-three dollars from
Chicago to Ogden.
	BISHOP M. D. Hammond, of Providence,
who recently favored us with a call, says that
in Cache Valley the winter has been an unsu-
ally pleasant one. There has been excellent
sleighriding nearly all winter, without so much
snow as is common to that region, nor exces-
sive cold weather. The people of Providence
under the auspices of the United Order, have
purchased and own a good saw-mill, and intend
making a spcialty of the lumber business.
	THE BEST occasion for meeting friends and
looking upon familiar faces which we have
witnessed for a long time was at the Theatre
on the evening of the 22nd ult. The Firemen's
ball brought together representatives from all
parts of this city, as well as some from other
localities. The remark was frequently heard,
"Why everybody's here!" as friends after
friends were greeted. And "everybody" ap-
peared perfectly satisfied with the entire suc-
cess which accompanied the whole affair.
	GOVERNOR AXTELL, in a short, unpremedita-
ted speech before the people of Ogden, while
on a private visit to a friend of that city, ad-
vanced some ideas and opinions which might
be taken as a key to a noble and manly char-
acter. Instead of gentlemen and ladies, he pre-
ferred to address the citizens of Ogden as "men
women and children, because these are the
dearest words." He had always believed there
was no real antagonism between labor and
capital." For he looked "upon labor as the
locomotive and capital the force that puts it in
motion." He came to Utah to govern the
whole people not a section. He evinced him-
self to be not in the least afraid of criticism,
and said, "Men of character care not for criti-


cism favorable or unfavorable."  Many other
fine points occurred in the speech which met
with hearty and well deserved applause. 
	MANY NATIVE plants have been discovered
in the southern portion of this Territory; which
are described by Mr. Joseph E. Johnson of St.
George, as being new and beautiful.  He offers
to fill cash orders for plants and seeds of the
same, and in some cases will exchange for
greenhouse and garden plants.  People who are
actively interested in floral or botanical pur-
suits may increase the variety of their plants,
and will also find it advantageous in other re-
spects to communicate with Mr. Johnson up-
on this subject.  It is at least, worth while to
learn what may be produced within this
mountainous region before sending East for
flower seeds, &c.


FLOWERS.
      WE make our best use of this world when
we regard it as the basis from which to sur-
vey the other.
	HEARTS have windows. They should be
kept open at all times that the glad sunshine
of all that is true and beautiful in this life
may enter and abide therein.
	I MAY be ever so rich, ever so finely edu-
cated, ever so handsome, ever so much ad-
mired, and yet the day is coming when I
shall die. What then will these profit me?
	TERTULLIAN saith, "If thou endurest
wrong for Christ's sake, He is a Revenger;
if sorrow, He is a Comforter; if sickness,
He is a Physician; if loss, He is a Restorer;
if life, he is a Reviver.
	IT is not with spiritual rose-bushes as
with material ones; in the latter, the thorns
remain and the roses pass away; in the for-
mer, the thorns pass away and the roses
stay.—St. Francis de Sales.
	ONE cannot enough wonder and be thank-
ful to Providence that, from time to time,
he places in the spirit of a whole people, or
of individuals, those truly God-like thoughts
on which our inner being reposes.—Hum-
bolt.


THE SNOW-PLANT OF THE SIERRAS.

	"One of the grandest objects," says the
San Francisco  "Bulletin," which meets the
eye of the traveler in our mountains is the
exquisite plant—the snow-plant of the Sier
ras—the “Sarcodes sanguinea” of John Tor-
rey, the botanist. It is an inhabitant only
of the high Sierras, being rarely found be-
low an altitude of 4,000 feet and its glorious
crimson spike of flowers may be seen early
in May, forcing itself through the snows
which at that period cling about the sides of
our pine forests.
	"The portion of the plant which is visible
above the soil is a bright, rosy, crimson in
color, and presents the very strongest con-
trast to the dark green of the pines and
shimmer of the snow. Its root is succulent,
thick, and abundantly free from moisture,
attaching itself to the roots of other plants,
principally to the species of the pine family.
Hence it is among those curious members
of the vegetable world which are known to
the botanists as parasites.
	"The deer are extremely fond of it, and
it is not an uncommon circumstance to find
a number of these plants uprooted and rob-
bed of a portion of their underground growth
by these animals. It belongs to the natural
order "Orbanchacea," and is met with
through the whole Sierra region, becoming
rarer as we approach the South."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONEN
			YEARNINGS.

	The years go by, the years go by,
	I see them pass without a sigh.
	For thou, my love, art cold and dead,
	The earth heaped o'er thy bright young head.
	What now is all this world to me
	But tasteless, dull monotony?
	
	The years pass on, the years pass on,
	And soon—full soon they will be gone.
	I have no time or tears to weep,
	So swiftly by the moments sweep;
	But haste to fill life's fleeting hours
	With duty's pale yet fragrant flowers.

	My love, I soon shall reach the strand—
	I almost see thy beckoning hand;—
	Though wild and dark, life's water's roar,
	Yet swift and soon, they waft me o'er.
	I dare not think upon the peace
	That comes when all these waitings cease;
	When thou my true, true heart shall know
	And doubt no more as years ago.

									A. E. T.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

     	Milk Stains.—Milk stains on serge dresses may
be removed by steeping the part in warm water.
	Jelly Cake—One cup butter, 1 cup sugar—4
eggs—11 cups flour—beat the eggs separately. 
	To Make Muffins.—Two eggs, two quarts of
flour, a pint of sweet milk, one pound of butter,
a gill of yeast, a teaspoonful of salt. 
	To Make Grandmother’s Gingerbread—Cup
and a half molasses, cup of rich sour cream, tea-
spoonful saleratus, teaspoonful of ginger; mix a 
little stiff.
	Clove Cake.—One cup molasses—1 cup sugar—
1 cup butter—1 cup buttermilk—3 eggs—3 cups
flour—1 tablespoon cloves—l of cinnamon—l tea-
spoon saleratus in milk—raisins. 
	Apple Sauce.—Two quarts of water, a pint of
molasses, a root of ginger, and boil altogether
twenty minutes; put in while boiling one peck of
pared, cored and quartered apples.  Stew till ten-
der. 
	Waffles.—One quart of flour, one pint of sour
milk, one teaspoonful of  soda, four eggs, a piece
of butter the size of a large egg, and a little salt.
Bake in waffle irons.  Sour cream and less butter
improves them. 
	Colors to Harmonize with Mahogany.—The
American Artisan says "mahogany must not be as-
sociated with red, scarlet or orange, otherwise its
effect is destroyed.  It harmonizes with almost
every other tint that is used in upholstery."
	Beef Stew.—Six pounds of the flank of beef,
cut in small pieces; boil in two quarts of water
until tender.  Then put in a dozen potatoes, a
dozen onions, and four turnips; cover it so that the
steam shall not escape; salt and pepper to taste. 
	Grape Jam.—Boil the Grapes in just water
enough to make them tender, strain them through
a colander, then in  one pound of pulp put one
pound of sugar; boil this half an hour; the com-
mon wild grape makes a nice jam. 
	Cream Cake.—Beat two eggs with one cup of
sugar, add one cup of thin cream, a teaspoonful of
salcratus and one of salt; flavor with nutmeg and
lemon or other spice, mix as stiff as will pour into
pans. A handful of currants improves it. Try
it. 
	Lamb Stew.—Take half a shoulder of lamb,
boil it in two quarts of water two hours.  Then
put in potatoes, onions if desired, and turnips cut in
quarters; two teaspoonfuls of salt and pepper to
taste.  Ten minutes before serving put in the
dumplings. 
 	Cream Pie. —One and a half cups of sugar,
three cups of flour, one cup of milk, two eggs, two

[Column 2]
tablespoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of
saleratus. Cream for inside, one pint of milk,
one-half cup of sugar, a little butter and salt, two
tablespoonfuls of flour (or corn starch), Flavor
with lemon. (Make two pies). Stir into the
milk while boiling till sufficiently thick.
	Taking Care of Boots.—One who has experi-
ence is convinced that a coat of gum copal varnish
applied to the soles of boots and shoes, and repeat-
ed as it dries, until the pores are filled and the
surface shines like polished mahogany, will make
the soles waterproof, and also cause them to last
three times as long as ordinary soles.
 	Rice Pudding with Fruit.—Swell the rice with
a very little milk over the fire then mix fruit of any
kind with it, currants, goosberries scalded, pared and
quartered apples, raisins, or black currants, and
still better, red currant jelly, with one egg to bind
the rice; boil it well, and serve with powdered cin-
namon and sugar.
	Oatmeal Pancakes.—Stir into four cupsful of
cold water a teaspoonful of salt, a large handful of
graham flour and oatmeal till you have a thin bat-
ter.  Bake at once on a very hot griddle; the Gra-
ham flour improves the pancakes, as they are
more easily turned and not quite so dry as when
oatmeal only is used.  When preferred, one cup of
water can be left out, using instead of it a cupful
of buttermilk and a teaspoonful of soda. 
	Shin of Beef Soup.—Have the shin well
cracked up; put it to boil in five or six quarts of
water: boil it five or six hours; skim it very often.
Cut up very fine, half a white cabbage; chop two
turnips and three onions if desired; put them all
into the soup with pepper and salt, and boil it two
hours; take the bone and gristle out before serving.
If you have some raised dough, make up a dozen
balls, the size of a nutmeg, drop them into the
soup and let them boil half an hour.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	CURE FOR NEURALGIA.—Take potatoes
and slice them thin as you can and bind
them on where the pain is and it will re-
lieve it in a few hours.  Keep putting on
until a cure is effected, which will be in
two or three applications.—Cor. Cincinnatti
Times.
	DIPHTHERIA has been very prevalent in
Australia, and one of the most successful
remedies is said to have been a few drops
of sulphuric acid in a tumblerful of water.
The result of this mixture is said to be a
coagulation of the diphtheritic membrane
and its ready removal by coughing.
	BURNS.—The white of an egg has proved
of late the most efficacious remedy for burns.
Seven or eight successive applications of
this substance soothe pain, and effectually
exclude the burn from the air.  This simple
remedy seems to be preferable to collodion
or even cotton.
	CURE FOR PROUD FLESH.—When alum
and burnt shoe soles will not touch it, get
black haw roots; scrape the outside bark off,
then peel the inside and scrape all the in-
side off, and dry and powder it fine.  Now
wash the sore with castile soap suds, and
put the powder in upon the proud flesh. 
	GRUEL.—Several articles may be used,
but wheat meal is preferable. Have the
water boiling. Make a paste of the meal
and cold water, and stir in slowly.  It must
not stop boiling for a moment; if it does it
will have a raw taste, which you cannot
remedy by cooking for hours.
	PATENT MEDICINES.—So long as medi-
cines are held before the people as the es-
sential means of curing the sick, so long
will patent medicines be used.  Physicians

[Column 2]
may resolve, and re-resolve, discuss and
preach, but it will do little good.  Intelli-
gent as well as ignorant buy patent medi-
cines.  The only cure is in spreading the
belief that medicines are harmful rather
than beneficial.—"Herald of Health."
	THE SECRET OF HEALTH.—First—Keep
cool.  Second—Eat regularly and slowly.
Third—Maintain regular bodily habits.
Fourth—Take early and light suppers.  Fifth
—Keep a clean skin.  Sixth—Get plenty of
sleep at night.  Seventh—Keep cheerful
and respectable company.  Eighth—Keep
out of debt.  Ninth—Don't set your mind
on things you don't need.—Boston Tran-
script.
	CURE FOR CORNS.—Ten cents' worth of
muriatic acid and acid of niter will take out
any number of corns and warts.  Scrape
around the corn and put the acid around it
a few times; and then you can take the
point of a knife, or even a pin, and lift it
out at the root. Put a little grease in it
when it is removed.
		A greater boon than fame or wealth,
		Is life's chief blessing, perfect health.
		Yet many have it not, because
		They've violated Nature's laws.
	AFTER DINNER NAPS.—Many persons
are in the habit of sleeping for half an hour
or an hour immediately after dinner.  Ten
minutes' sleep before dinner is worth more
than an hour after.  It rests and refreshes
and prepares the system for vigorous diges-
tion.  If sleep is taken after dinner it should
be in the sitting posture, as the horizontal
position is unfavorable to healthful diges-
tion. Let those who need rest and sleep
during the day take it before dinner instead
of after, and they will soon find that they
will feel better and that their digestion will
be improved thereby.
	TONICS FOR WOMEN.—Nothing makes a
woman age more rapidly than over-work—
the reason, probably, that American women
fade so soon.  Sunshine, music, work and
sleep are the greatest medicines for women,
who need more sleep than men.  Their
nerves are more sensitive and they are not
so strong, and exhaustion from labor or
pleasure takes place sooner with them than
men.  Never permit yourself to be roused
out of a deep sleep in the morning.  In
fact, one should never be awakened.  The
body rouses of itself when its demands are
satisfied.  Take a warm bath occasionally
before going to bed—at least once a week.
	AIR THE SPARE BEDS.—Here is a hint
for housekeepers, and a very important one.
Merely covering up a bed with blankets and
counterpanes will no more protect it  from
dampness or keep it dry than a pane of
glass will keep  out  light.  The atmospheric
moisture will penetrate all woven fabrics.
Hence, the importance of keeping the beds
in spare rooms regularly aired.  Many a
dear friend or welcome visitor has been
sent to an untimely grave or afflicted with
disease, by being put into a bed which had
been permitted to stand unoccupied.  Keep
the spare beds, when not in use, free from
all covering but a light spread.


IT is a fact that God's care is more evi-
dent in some instances than in others to
the dim and often bewildered vision of hu-
manity. Upon such instances men seize,
and call them Providences. It is well that
they can; but it would be gloriously better
if they could believe that the whole matter
is one grand Providence.—George Macdon-
ald.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HINTS ABOUT CHILDREN.
	CHILDREN'S NAPS.—When a child is old
enough it will usually cease to want a mid-
day nap. There is no especial age. Some
children require it longer than others. If it
interferes with good night sleep, then it is
time to break it up. There is no harm in
taking it after dinner.
	CHILDREN AND SUNSHINE.—Children
need sunshine quite as much as flowers do.
Half an hour is not enough. Several hours
are required. The most beautiful flowers
that ever studded a meadow could not be
made half so beautiful without days and
days of the glad light that streams through
space. Light for children. Sunshine for
the little elves that gladden this otherwise
gloomy earth, deal it out in generous full-
ness to them. Let the nursery be in the
sunshine. Better plant roses on the dark
side of an iceberg than rear babies and chil-
dren in rooms and alleys stinted of the light
that makes life.
	FRIGHTENING CHILDREN.—Nothing can
be worse for a child than to frighten it. The
effect of the scare is slow to recover from;
it remains sometimes until maturity, as is
shown by many instances of morbid sensi-
tiveness and excessive nervousness.
	Not unfrequently, fear is employed as a
means of discipline. Children are controlled
by being led to believe that something ter-
rible will happen to them; are punished by
being shut up in dark rooms, or by being
put in places they stand in dread of. No
one, without vivid memory of his own
childhood, without vivd memory of his own
childhood, can comprehend how entirely
cruel such things are. We have often heard
grown people tell of the suffering they have
endured as children, under like circumstan-
ces, and recount the irreparable injury which
they are sure they then received. No pa-
rent, no nurse, capable of alarming the
young, is fitted for her position. Children,
as near as possible, should be trained not to
know the sense of fear which, above every-
thing else is to be feared in their education
both early and late.
	DEAR SISTER RICHARDS.—Because of dis-
advantages we have not had a woman's
meeting in five months. So, like food to
one who is very hungry, the EXPONENT
comes to me. I hail it as the true woman's
advocate against slander. I learn from it
the spirit of the times, and am deeply in-
terested with its instructions on the rearing
of children, a subject sublime. After rear-
ing—in connection with my husband—a
large family of children, I can but glance at
the wisdom required for the task. Yet,
from experience, I think it wisdom to excite
the pride of a child by praising him or her
for truthfulness, little deeds of kindness,
etc. Also that punishment for a fault should
be lessend where truthfulness appears in fa-
vor of the child. Never exhibit a doubt of
the aptness of a child in learning, even if
it is stupid. Nor should we exhibit unbe-
lief when told of a wrong act, done by our
child, but teach it the principle of restora-
tion merited by guilt.
	A little son once said, "Ma, please give
me a pane of glass for Mrs. S—. I broke
one for her last night when we were play-
ing blind man's buff." Indulgence excited
his pride, and away he ran with the glass;
after which, the lady came to pay for it,
saying "It was not your boy who broke the
window, but the one he was in pursuit of."
Yet the little fellow felt that he had the
confidence of the lady, and all was right.
	Oxford, Feb.,1875.	M. A. BOICE.


POST-MORTEM LOVE.

	Why is it that so many people keep all
their pleasant thoughts and kind words
about a man, bottled and sealed up until he
is dead, when they come and break the bot-
tle over his coffin, and bathe his shroud in
fragrance? Many a man goes through life
with scarcely one bright, cheering, encour-
aging, helpful word. He toils hard and in
humble obscurity. He gives out his life
freely and unstintedly for others. I remem-
ber such a man. He was not brilliant; he
was not great; but he was faithful. He had
many things to discourage him. Troubles
thickened about his life.  He was misrepre-
sented and misunderstood. Everybody be-
lieved that he was a good man, but no one
ever said a kind or pleasant thing to him.
He never heard a compliment, scarcely
ever a good wish. No one ever took any
pains to encourage him, to strengthen his
feeble knees, to lighten his burdens, or to
lift up his heart by a gentle deed of love,
or by a cheerful word. He was neglected.
Unkind things were often said of him.
	I stood at his coffin, and then there were
many tongues to speak his praise. There
was not a breath of aspersion in  the air.
Men spoke of self-denials—of his work
among the poor, of his good qualities, of his
quietness, of his modesty, his humility, his
pureness of heart, his faith and prayer.
There were many who spoke indignantly of
the charges  that falsehood had forged
against him in past years and of the treat-
ment he had receieved. There were enough
kind words said during the two or three
days that he lay in the coffin, and while the
company stood around his open grave, to
have blest him and made him happy all his
fifty years, and to have thrown sweetness
and joy about his soul during all his pained
and weary journey. There was enough sun-
shine wasted about the black coffin and
dark grave to have made his whole life-
path bright as clearest day. But his ears
were closed then, and he could not hear a
word that was spoken. His heart was still
then, and could not be thrilled by the great-
ful sounds. He cared nothing for the sweet
flowers that were piled upon his coffin. The
love blossomed out too late. The kindness
came when the life could not receive its
blessings.
	But meantime there is a great host of
weary men and women toiling through life
towards the grave, who need cheering
words and helping ministries. The in-
cense is gathering to scatter about their cof-
fins; but why should it not be scattered in
their paths to-day? The kind words are
lying in men's hearts and trembling on their
tongues, which will be spoken by-and-by
when these weary ones are sleeping; but
why should they not be spoken now, when
they need them so much, and when their
accents would be so pleasing and grateful?
	It costs but little to give men a deal of
joy and help. One brought a bunch of flow-
ers to my table, and for a whole week they
filled my room with fragrance. One wrote
me a cheering letter, breathing a spirit of
gratitude and love. It came when I was
weary and depressed, and was like a meal
prepared by the angel for the old prophet.
I went on in its blessed strength for many
days. One met me on the street and spoke
an encouraging word and  grasped me
warmly by the hand, and for hours I felt
that warm grasp and heard that word echo-
ing through my soul. A little child may
brighten scores of lives every day.  There
is not one of us who may not gladden and
strengthen many a heart between every

[Column 2
rising and setting sun. Why should we
not live to bless the living, to cheer the dis-
heartened, and to sweeten cups that are
bitter, to hold up the hands that hang down
to comfort those that mourn, to bear joy in-
to joyless homes? Kind words will not
spoil a man. If a sermon helps you, it will
do the preacher no harm to tell him so. If 
the editor writes an article that does you
good, he can write a still better one if you
send him a word of thanks. If a book
blesses you, do you not owe it to the author
to write a grateful acknowledgement? If
you know a weary or neglected one, would
it not be Christlike work to seek every op-
portunity to brighten and to bless that life?
Do not wait till the eyes are closed, the ear
deaf, and the heart stilled. Do it now.
Post-mortem kindesses do not cheer. Flow-
ers on the coffin cast no fragrance back over
the weary days—Rev. J. B. Miller, in S.
S. Times.


FLOWERS AS DISINFECTANTS.

	A writer in Saturday Review states that:
"Professor Mantegazza has discovered that
ozone is developed by certain odorous flow-
ers. A writer in nature states that strong-
smelling vegetables, essences such as mint,
cloves, lavender, lemon and cherry laurel
develop a very large quantity of ozone when
in contact with atmospheric oxygen in light.
Flowers destitute of perfume do not devel-
op it, and generally the amount of ozone
seems to be in proportion to the strength
emanated. Prof. Mantagazza recommends
that in marshy districts, and places infested
with noxious exhalations, strong-smelling,
flowers should be placed around the house,
in order that the ozone emitted from them
may exert its oxidizing influence. So
pleasant a plan for making a malarious dis-
trict salubrious only requires to be known to
be put into practice"—For a long time we
have been made acquainted with the fact
that sunflowers are of value as disinfectants,
the reason of this has not even yet been
fully determined. It does not follow because
flowers are beneficial in a sanatary sense
round out houses that they are so in our
houses. Plants at night give off noxious
exhalations, so do flowers. It may be ta-
ken as a rule nothing like fresh air with-
out any odor whatever. It is without doubt
true that perfume from flowers produces
that change in oxygen which converts it
into ozone. Ozone is produced in many ways
by natural processes so as to purify the air.


A GOOD WATCH.

	In repairing the house of Mrs. Wrisley,
wrecked by the Mill River flood, a little be-
low Haydenville, recently, her gold watch
and chain were fouud just under the floor,
hanging to a piece of board. The house was
upset by the flood, and the watch had stop-
ped at the time the flood came along. When
shaken it had commenced running again,
apparently as good as ever. This watch
was once stolen, for which offence a man
was convicted and is now serving out his
sentence.


BARNUM'S Great Roman Hippodrome will
close soon to give the performers and ani-
mals time to recruit for the summer travel-
ing campaign. The establishment will trav-
el by rail, using 125 cars, and will exhibit
in tents 800 feet long. It will embrace 600
men, women, and children, 800 horses and
ponies, beside elephants, camels, buffaloes,
&c. How is that for stupendousness?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WISDOM is oftentimes nearer when we
stoop than when we soar.
	THE best "vegetable pill" ever made is
an apple dumpling.
	MAKE the expenses less than the income,
and the road to competency, if not to wealth,
is as plain as the road to mill.
	EXPERIENCE is a good schoolmaster,
though often pretty severe; and there is
little danger of our forgetting the lessons
he teaches us.
	SINCE the high hats for ladies came into
fashion, a flying trapeze performance is the
only thing that can be seen at a theatre
without hindrance.
	MISS Anna Dickenson in studying for the
stage, works bravely, and will make her
debut probably as Joan of Arc—a character
for which she has the greatest admiration.
	MRS. Wm. Pascoe, of Dodgeville, Wis.,
one day recently, dressed a chicken that
had three well developed, full sized hearts,
all united by a ligament. A very hearty
fowl.
	A UNIVERSITY student broke through the
ice at lake Monana, the other day, when the
water was only four feet deep. When he
was hauled out upon the ice he whispered,
"Boys, I don't care for myself, but I'm en-
gaged."
	THE effects of Dime Novel literature, are
well illustrated in the case of Pomroy, the
boy-murderer of Massachusetts, who con-
fesses that his thirst for blood was acquired
by reading Indian stories.
	"NEVER sign a paper until you know
what it contains," was the advice given by
a father to his little son who had been plac-
ing both his own and his father's signature
to an article, the contents of which he knew
nothing, but signed because a good man
asked him to
	A COUNTEFEIT currenct plate on the Am-
hurst bank has been forwarded to the Uni-
ted States Secret Service Division by the
chief operative of the New England De-
partment. Owing to its being nearly a
century old, it is considered a great relic by
the Treasury Department.
	A GENTLEMAN, while walking in his gar-
den, caught his gardener asleep under a
tree. He scolded him soundly for his lazi-
ness, and ended by telling him such a slug-
gard was not worthy to enjoy the light of
the sun. "It was that reason exactly," said
the gardener, "that I crept up into the
shade."
	INFINITE toil would not enable us to
sweep a mist, but by ascending a little you
may overlook it altogether. So it is with
our moral improvement; we wrestle fiercely
with a vicious habit, which would have no
hold upon us if we ascended into a higher
moral atmosphere.
	DR. Albert Lull, of Nashua, recently lost
his port-monnaie, and made the discovery
while sitting in the house. He had been at
work in the garden, and thought he might
have lost it there. Stating as much to his
black and tan dog, he directed him to go
for it. The dog at once left the room and
soon returned with the missing pocket-book.
On another occasion this dog found a twen-
ty-five cent scip in the street, and on his
own accord he picked it up and carried it to
his master. Although he has had no in-
structions in finance, he appears clearly to
understand the value of money.—Telegraph.


THEODORE THOMAS AND THE
			PUBLIC TALKER.

	We have spoken of Thomas' stern gov-
ernment of his orchestra. He plays the
despot sometimes with the public also, for
he not only teaches his audience what to
like, but he teaches them now and then how
to behave.  We might fill a page with sto-
ries of his amusing encounters with that
pest of the concert-room, the Public Talker.
At the Symphony Concerts he refuses to go
on with the performance while there is any
disturbance in the hall.  At the Summer
Garden there is more difficulty.  Conversa-
tion cannot be prohibited in such a place,
but when it passes reasonable bounds Thom-
as stops the music, and says, in his quiet
way, "When the ladies and gentlemen have
done talking we will go on with the concert"
—a remark which is always followed by a
hearty outburst of applause.  On one occa-
sion a party in the front seats distinguished
themselves by unusually loud chatting and
laughter during a performance of the Mid-
summer Night's Dream Overture.  The
conductor gave a signal, and suddenly into
the midst of Mendelssohn's soft and dreamy
strains broke the loud roll of the drum.
The audience started with surprise,--all
but the talkers, who continued their conver-
sation, unconscious that the eyes of the
whole house were now fixed on them.
They only raised their voices a little and
still the rattle of the drum went on.  It was
not until the orchestra shook with laughter,
and the delighted audience began to ap-
plaud, that the culprits awoke to the situa-
tion.—J. R. G. Hassard; Scribner for Feb-
ruary.


AN ANCIENT RELIC.

	Recently, at Rockford, Ill. a party of gentle-
men interested in the early history of America,
made an important discovery relating to the works
of the Mound Builders, the remains of which are
so abundant in the Mississippi Valley. Work was
commenced on a large mound about 32 feet in di-
ameter, and 8 feet in length. After four hours'
work in the heat and sun, the company were re-
warded by finding a smoothly-polished gympsum
tablet, covered on one side with very mysterious
characters, which were and still are as unintelligi-
ble to all the members of the party as Sancrit or
Lybian. The tablet is two inches wide, three and
one-fourth inches long, and one-fourth of an inch
thick. At the centre of the top is a curiously
wrought face, surrounded by what appears to be
rays of light; beneath, and running nearly to the
bottom, is an upright bar, supported by a cross-
bar; at the left upper corner is the form of a
coiled serpent; beneath this is a triangle, another
serpent, a lizard, and what appears to be a burning
taper. These figures stand in a line, one above
the other. In the right hand upper corner is a
character resembling the letter Z, and beneath this
one resemblins the letter U; next a dagger-shaped
character, under which is a fishes head; next an
elongation circular character, with a dot in the
center, and a continued stroke from the upper left
elongation; next under this are four bars crossing
each other at alternate angles; under this last fig-
ure, that of a well-formed fish, making fourteen
distinct figures in all. The edges are beveled and
traced. This relic was found about eight feet be-
low the surface of the mound, and directly under
it was found a number of spear points, stone axes,
or hammers, and various other relics, including what
appeared to be the remains of human bones. Two
other mounds were opened by the party, in which
human bones were found, but no relics as valuable
as the one described.—Burlington Gazette.


FIFTEEN hundred bushels of onions were
raised in Sunderland, Mass., last year.


AN old man named Atwood died recently
near Chesnut, England. He was a bachelor,
and rich, but lived very quietly. He is
discovered to have been the giver of £1,000
checks. His books show that he gave away
£350,000 in this way; £45,000 within the
last year. He has left more than a million
sterling, and no will.  Mr. Atwood is
said to have made his money principally by
glass. A £1,000 note was lying about the
room, as if it had been waste paper.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H. E. PHELPS,
			20 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store,
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.

H. WALLACE
Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.

			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
the club.	-	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club,		-	-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club, and a framed ste[--]engraving 12x16
inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	 34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and 
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 3.    SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1875.     No. 20


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ST. ANDREW'S church, in New York was
recently crushed in, the roof being beaten
in by the toppling over of a lofty wall. The
accident occurred during the time of an
evening service when the church was filled
with people. Several persons were killed
instantly and many were taken to the hos-
pital seriously injured. That the sufferers
were at the time of the disaster, in the
midst of divine worship, seems to add to
the painful interest of the solemn occasion.
	A MAN named Brown, of Pottsville, Penn-
sylvania, is to be executed on the 24th inst.,
for the murder of an aged couple, Mr. and
Mrs. Kromer.
	MOODY AND Sankey, two American pil-
grims, have been holding revival meetings
in England, from which several cases of in-
sanity have occured.
	THE CARELESSNESS of many mothers in
allowing small children to have pins or
needles with which to amuse themselves is
something to be deprecated, and the follow-
ing sad occurrence should act as a salutary
warning to such. The "Alta" of Tuesday,
gives this account; "On Friday afternoon a
little daughter of Col. J. G. Jeffreys, of No.
1616 Washington street, accidentally forced
a needle into her chest, while leaning against
the window-sill. A physician was called,
but was unsuccessful in finding the needle,
although search was made, and the integu-
ments of the chest were divided to the
breast bone, immediately over the wound
The child had broken it off in an effort to
extricate it  herself. The needle had pene-
trated the chest, from which it was quite
impossible to extract it. On Sunday noon
the child died suddenly, not in a spasm, as
has been said. An autopsy was held yes-
terday morning by Dr. Chas. McQuesten, 
the family physician, which revealed a
wound in the right ventricle of the heart,
produced by the needle, and a part of which
was extracted therefrom. This should be a
warning to all mothers that they cannot be
too careful in keeping needles from their
younger children. The fine cambric needle is
rapid in its transit through the flesh, and
almost defies extraction after disappearing
beneath the surface."


HOW TO BE BEAUTIFUL.

	To be beautiful we must cherish every
kind impulse and generous disposition,
making love the ruling affection of the heart
and the ordering principle and inspiring
motive of life. The more kindness, the
more beauty; the more love, the more love-
liness. And this is the beauty that lasts. Mere
physical good looks fade with the years,
bleach out with sickness, yield to the slow
decay and wasting breath of mortality. But
the beauty that has its seat and source in
kind dispositions, and noble purposes, and
great thoughts, outlasts youth and maturity,
increases with age and, like the luscious
peach, covered with the delicate blush of
purple and gold which comes with autumn
ripeness, is never so beautiful as when wait-
ing to be plucked by the Gatherer’s hand.—
Annual of Phrenology, 1871.


DON'T MARRY WITHOUT LOVE.

	I wish I could say to every young lady,
"Don't marry any one that you do not love."
It is a fearful life-lie to assume marriage
without love! Follow the dictates of your
individual heart in that which only concerns
yourself.  Do not let envy, or pique or fan-
cied slight lead you into a wrong marriage.
Marry the one you love or no one. Better
go through life alone than live here a
whole lifetime with one that you do not
love. Do you realize what marriage is? It 
is to sit opposite some one that you love, or
don't love, at meal-time, three times a day
through all your life.  It is to go to concerts
and church, and to see your relatives and
acquaintances with the one that you love or
don't love.  It is to be dependent upon
some one else for the necessaries and pleas-
ures of life.  It is to divide hapiness or mis-
ery; which shall it be? It is to have children
who shall be taught good or evil by father
as well as mother.  It is one long, long part-
nership of life.  It should be a life of love or
a life alone.
	Better await the bridegroom the other
side of the grave than to live so false a life
here as the unloving marriage state.  For
"man and woman made He them;" and
there can be but one true love.  The best of
substitutes is worse than no marriage love.
So I repeat to every girl, better never mar-
ry than marry one to whom you cannot be
true in heart, and life, and soul.
							BETH
	In Woman's Journal.


MOZART AND THE PRINCESS.

	The musical accomplishments of the
great composer were so wonderful at the
early age of six years, that his father took
him with  to the principal cities to play
in public.
	There is a pretty little French story told
of him when he visited Vienna.  He played
before the Emperor and Maria Theresa, and
after he had executed several pieces to the
satisfaction of all; the Empress made a sign
for him to come to her. As he descended
from the stool, unaccustomed to walk on a
waxed floor, he slipped and fell.  A little
girl sprang forward and cried, "Are you
hurt?" 
	"You are beautiful," said Wolfgang. "Will
you marry me?" The little girl laughed.
"That cannot be, my poor boy?"
	"Why not? We are of the same age?"
	"But you are only a poor artist."
	"I shall be great some day."
	"And I am Maria Antoinette, I shall be
arch-duchess."
	This little girl became the wife of Louis
XIV, and the unfortunate Queen of France;
and the same day that Mozart, having be-
come a great composer, was crowned in
Vienna, she was insulted in Paris, and two
years later perished on the scaffold.


MRS. MANCHESTER, who died recently in
Pittsfield, aged 105 years, used often to re-
mark in reference to her long life, "I am
afraid God has forgotten me."


﻿WOMAN'S VOICE. 
	I had a sweet little dream last night, and
I want to tell you what it was for it has made
me so happy to-day.
	I was sitting in the front room, it seemed
to be a warm day and both doors were open.
My loved, lost darling came in, and coming
up to me, placed hss precious little arms
around my neck, while a sweet smile light-
ed his dear face. He commenced kissing
me, and I put my arms about him and said,
“Did my little boy come to see me?” to
which he answered “Yes ma-am.” While
he still smiled upon me, I said I would comb
his head. And taking the comb from the
shelf, I began combing his hair, which was
still wavy and beautiful as his looks were
natural and sweet. But before I had finish-
ed, he turned to me with the same heavenly
smile that he wore when he entered, and
said “I must go now.” And placing his
arms around my neck, and kissing me as be-
fore, he left the room. Then I remembered
that you were in the garden, and went to
tell you that he had been to see me. I
wondered that I had not called you while he
was with me, that you too might have seen
him. And then I recollected that I had been
so filled with joy that I did not think of any
one, nor even that I was alone in the house
when he came. When I found you, we
walked together as we used to with our arms
around each other, and I was telling you
what had happened when I awoke. It was
but a little dream, but it comforts my heart,
and I thank my Heavenly Father for it.
						M. G. H.
			SMITHFIELD, CACHE CO.
MY DEAR SISTER:
	It really is me, attempting to write to
you once more. We have had a very sickly
time with our little ones this winter, but
the Lord has been merciful and kind to us.
	I feel that the time is near when the Saints
will tke the Kingdom and possess it. What
a glorious rest for our dear parents and
many others who have come up through
tribulations, and have raised their families
in the fear of the Lord!
	As a family, we are not well in health but
we love the Lord and one another, and we
feel that we are blest.
	Love and blessings for yourself and dear
onces.					S. E. G. H.


MISS INGELOW, it is stated, is a native of
Boston, in England, and passed her early
life amid the quiet surroundings and avoca-
tions of the English girl.  She is now about
forty-five years of age, and lives with her
widowed mother, in a retired part of Lon-
don, "in a quiet street," as she has said,
"where all the houses are with window box-
es full of flowers."
	MRS. THOMAS H. LITTLE has been ap-
pointed Superintendent of the Wisconsin
Institution for the Education of the Blind
at Janesville, Wis., a position made vacant
by the recent death of her husband. A lo-
cal paper characterizes Mrs. Little as a wo-
man of rare culture, of an elevated Christian
spirit, fully competent to satisfactorily and
successfully perform the duties of the posi-
tion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT
			THE UNITED ORDER.
					__
		BY JACOB E. TERRY. ROCKVILLE.
					__
	Come let us join our hearts and hands,
		In the United Order;
	Likewise our houses and our lands,
		And all within our border.
	For it will help to make us free
		From bondage and oppression;
	When through our faith we all can see,
		And all do take possession.

CHORUS. For this is the truth we will maintain,
		Until our dying day, Sir,
	That Jesus Christ our King shall reign,
		And righteousness bear sway, Sir.

	The prophets longs ince did foretell
		The beauties of the Order;
	When Jesus Christ with saints shall dwell,
		And peace reign through their border.
	Then come ye Saints both great and small.
		And understand the sequel,
	That when we have put in our all,
		We all will then be equal.

CHOURS. For this is the truth, &c.
	
	We'll heap up gold and silver too,
		And treasures that are hidden.
	For we believe the prophets true,
		And thus the Lord hath bidden,
	That all the Saints benearth the sun,
		Should bring their wealth together,
	And that will make us all as one,
		With the blessings of our Father.

Chorus. For this is truth, &c.
	
	And when the Saints through faith behold
		The glories of the union;
	And by their faith and works lay hold
		Upon the blest communion;
	We'll bind old Satan fast in chains,
		And cast him into prison.
	And peace and righteousness shall reign,
		And earth become a heaven.

Chorus. For this is truth, &c.


﻿R.S. REPORTS.
	SALT LAKE CITY, March, 8th, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I noticed in a late number of the EX-
PONENT, a call from a sister in Tooele,for re-
ports from our Senior and Junior Co-opera-
tive Retrenchment Association, the meet-
ings of which are held each alternate Satur-
day in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly.
Rooms. Our meetings are continually in-
creasing in interest. Of late, some of the
brethren have been pleased to attend our
meetings and note the progress of the So-
ciety. President Joseph Young, Bishops L.D.
Young, and Wm. G. Young, Elders John
B. Maiben, Milen Atwood,CharitonJacobs and
Morris B. Young have all honored us by
visiting our meetings and speaking most
encouragingly to us. For some weeks past
the house has been filled on the occasions of
our meetings, and there is talk of our hav-
ing to remove to a more spacious building.
One beautiful feature of these meetings is
the reading of reports from the junior asso-
ciations of the different wards by the young
lady secretaries. I believe fifteen wards be-
longing to this city are thus represented at
our general meetings; and Sisters Snow,
Horne and others express much satisfaction
at the progress which the young ladies are 
making.				M. M. GROO,
						Secretary.
	CHARLESTON, Provo Valley,
				March 2nd, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	As some of your many subscribers we
would humbly ask permission for a small in-
sertion inyour columns. We have a Relief So-
ciety in Charleston and are endeavoring to do
what is right and pleasing before our Father
in Heaven. We haven't many sick or
[Column 2]
needy in our place, so we have given a good
deal of our means to help build the meeting
house. We made a carpet for our meeting
house last summer, which makes it more
comfortable, and we have four shares in the
Co-operative store. We try to meet once a
month, but owing to the cold and stormy
weather in the winter, and high water in
the summer, we don't meet as often as we
would. Since we have subscribed for the
EXPONENT, we have found it very interests
ing to read, containing good instruction-
which we as sisters ought to put in practice.
For the time has come in which we have
got to do one thing or the other, put away
our foolish traditions and live near to the
Lord or be overcome by evil. The day is
near at hand when the Lord will bring to
pass his great and mighty works.
	We have been rather negligent, so we
have made some resolutions among ourselves
to try to do better in the future; and with
the help of our Father in Heaven, we intend
to keep them.
			Yours truly,
		EMMA BROWN, President,
		MARIA MCRAE,           } Counselors
		MELISSA MURDOCK, }
		MARY DAYBALL, Treasurer,
		FANNY RICHENS, Secretary.
		TOOELE CITY, Feb. 28th, 1875.
MISS E.R. SNOW.
	Dear Sister.—The President and Coun-
cil of the Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association of this City, herewith submit
for your consideration a few resolutions
which have been prepared and accepted by
the Association, for their further observance.
Trusting they will meet with your approval,
we subscribe ourselves with pleasure, your
sisters in the Gospel.
		ELIZABETH DELAMAR, President.
		JANE DEW, Superintendent.
		CAROLINE MORGAN,	}
		ELIZA CLEGG,			}
		BARBARA GOWANS,		} Counselors
		MARY WARBURTON,		}
		MARY SPIERS,			}
		MARTHA BROWN.		}
		MARY ATKIN, Secretary.
		RESOLUTIONS,
PASSED BY THE YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCH.
	MENT ASSOCIATION OF TOOELE CITY.
	1st.—Resolved, that we will not associate
or keep company with those who are at
enmity with us on account of our religious
belief, neither will we attend their places of
resort for dancing or other amusements.
	2d.—Resolved, that whereas slang phrases
and byewords, as they are termed, are un-
becoming and not lady like, we will refrain
from the use thereof.
	3rd.—Resolved, that inasmuch as it is a
portion of the word of wisdom to abstain
from the use of Tea and Coffee, we in order
to obtain the blessings accruing from observ-
ing the word of wisdom, will abstain from
the use of Tea and Coffee.
	4th.—Resolved, that we consider it our duty
to attend Sabbath and Fast meetings, Sun-
day Schools, and other gatherings where use-
ful information and instructions are impar-
ted.
	5th.—Resolved, that we will be reserved
in our actions in meetings, or elsewhere,
and cultivate good manners and true eti-
quette in our behavior.
	6th.—Resolved, that inasmuch as intoxi-
cating drinks are injurious to both body and
mind, and tend to impoverish, degrade and
ruin those who habituate themselves to the
[Column 3]
use thereof, we will try by our influence with
the youth of our community to have them
refrain from indulging in any such practice.
	7th.—Resolved, that we will always dress
neatly and in a becoming manner, not in-
dulging in the foolish fashions of the world,
but will try to create our own fashions, such
as will be conducive to our comfort.
	8th.—Resolved, that we will use our in-
fluence with our young brethren to have
them refrain from the use of Tobacco as it
is a filthy habit, injurious to health and dis-
pleasing in the sight of God.
	9th.—Resolved, that we will be studious
in our lives, seeking to obtain wisdom and
knowledge from the reading of good books
and other sources attainable.
	10th.—Resolved, that we will refrain
from indulging in round dancing, and aban-
don the desire for the same, having been
counseled so to do, as it is injurious to
health, and originated from an evil source.
	11th.—Resolved, that whereas profaning
the name of God is breaking a command-
ment, and is a low, degrading vice, we will
use our influence in subduing this disgrace-
ful habit by not associating with those who
persist in profanity.—
	MRS. L. G. RICHARDS.—above ex-
cellent resolutions have been read to Presi-
dent Young, who sanctioned them by say-
ing, "may God help them to keep them."
					E. R. S.
	ST. GEORGE, Washington Co.,
					Feb. 24th, 1875.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:
	A few of us sisters met together to-day,
and thought a short note would not be amiss
in your paper. We came here in November
to cook for the Temple hands, and have had
such a good time this winter. In the first
place, the meetings have been great feasts,
and then the St. George people have been so
kind to us. In the evenings it has been
like concerts in the shanties, which are near
the Temple. All appear to feel well and
enjoy themselves. In fact, they say they
never were happier in their lives.
	We have visited the Relief Society meet-
ings as often as we could and have had
good times. We heard their reports read.
They donated one hundred dollars last year,
and expect to do the same this year for the
Temple.
		Yours affectionately,
ANN HARVEY,	   MARY CHRISTOFERSON,
I. M. FINLAYSON,	   ALMIBA BRADLEY,
MINERVA ZUFELT, JANE MILLS,
BETTY WARSNIP,   MARTHA PHILLIPS,
		MARY A. BLINKA.
		ST. GEORGE, Feb. 21st, 1865.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Would you allow a little girl of twelve
years old to add to the list of your letters. I
have read in your beautiful paper all about
Retrenchment Associations in the City, and
I want to tell you about our little associa-
tion down here. It is called The Young
Ladies' Charitable Association. We are all
little girls, but the reason we call it the Young
Ladies' association is because we mean to
grow up to be young ladies, even old ladies
in it if we can. What we are doing in our
association at present is this; we are trying
to make a quilt as a donation for the temple.
After we get that done we are going to try
to learn how to braid straw so that we can 
make hats for the brethren. I am Secretary
in the association. We have chosen for our


little President, Miss Mabel Young. And
with our Heavenly Father's blessing we
will succeed if we are only little girls.
			Truly yours,
						IDA KEATE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[First column]
	﻿A STATISTICAL VIEW OF THE
		WOMAN QUESTION.
		BY CLARA NICOLSON.
	Some writer, learned in statistics, promul-
gated not long since, through the daily press,
the alarming discovery that the old Puritan
stock was fast dying out; that three fourths
of the children born in the United States
were of foreign parentage, and that the
greatest want of the age was American,
mothers. Having found a new string to
harp upon, with the persistency common
among journalists the time was taken up,
first by one editor and then another, until,
the melancholy refrain resounded over the
length and breadth of the land. At the
same time, had the present generation of
American girls, those “curled darlings of the
nation,” been asked what they considered
the greatest want of the Present day, they
would, with equal truth and emphasis, have
responded—“husbands!”
	That there is a growing distaste of matri-
mony manifested, on the part of the sterner
sex no observing person will deny; the cost
of living, the alleged extravagance of women,
and their own luxurious tastes, all pleading
in a life of single blessedness.
	"Far-sighted and match-making mammas
are recognising this fact and consequently
are taking their daughters to Europe, where
men are more plentiful and more apprecia-
tive. During the past two months all per-
sons who are opposed to the Woman's
Rights movement have heen reviving those
old-fashioned platitudes about prizing
women “ for their affection, not their intell-
ect,” and. are still defining woman’s sphere
as the
		"Sweet, safe corner of the household fire,
		  Behind the heads of children."
A charming position, which very few women
are averse to occupying, but unfortunately
thcse writers make no provision for the large
number of women for whom there is no
such fireside. Gentlemen, what do you pro-
pose to do with the old maids? Her mis-
fortune in being deprived of the stereotyped
“fire” and “children,” certainly entitles
her case to respectful and sympathetic con-
siderdation.
	All infants of the feminine gender imbibe
with their mother's milk the notion that
their greatest happiness in this life is to be
attained through the medium of the wed-
ding ring—a magical circlet, that encloses
every imaginable bliss, and typical of un-
ending joy. This belief grows with their
growth and strengthens with their strength,
and long before they leave school the fair
girl-graduates have mappcd put their bril-
liant careers, varying their Butler's Analo-
gy with analogies between their present
and future matrimonial state, problems in
Euclid with the more difficult problem of
how to catch a husband, and Moral Science
with the science of government they hope
some day to establish in their own house-
holds. In short, each one builds a charming
air-castle, of which she is to be the presiding
genius, her sovereignty being shared always
by some Adonis or Apollo Belvidere, with a
black or yellow moustache, whom she ex-
pects to meet, as soon as she is released from
her present thraldom, and whom she will
immediately accept and acknowledge as
her lord, her governor, her king!"
[Column 2]
But, alas! the young women of the pres-
ent day, instead of indulging in such vis-
ions, should have been studying the census,
which would at once have taught them that
even if every man in the United States were
ready to rush into matrimony upon the
slightest provocation, there would still be
some seven hundred and fifty thousand
women who must, unless they migrate to
Utah, be debarred from this mansion of hap-
piness. To tell women, under any circum-
stances, to "marry and they will be happy,'
is a work of supererogation, as no woman
ever presumed to question the truth of that
statement—until after she was married! To
preach such a doctrine at the present time
when the supply of husbands falls so far
short of the demand, is the refinement of
cruelty, and deserves the attention of some
feminine Bergh.
	But this noble army of martyrs, or single
women, whichever you prefer, being thus
condemned, from no fault of their own, and
doubtless much against their inclination, to
write themselves spinsters, should not a
chivalrous regard for their destitute condi-
tion make the superior sex end this inces-
sant talk about women devoting themselves
to their home duties, when, “charm they
never so wisely,” there are no homes for
them! The avalanche of old	maids
about to be precipitated upon the latter half
of the nineteenth century will, however,
serve one good purpose. It will be their
duty to bury this old-fashioned theory in ob-
livion, and prove that, although a woman
may have the misfortune to die unmarried,
their life is not necessarily a failure; and it
devolves upon them to show the world that
women, although beautiful in the home
circle, can ably and profitably fill other posi-
tions. Probably upon no other subject has
so much nonsense been written as upon
woman's sphere. A woman’s sphere, be she
married or single, is that in which her tal-
ents have fitted her to work to the best ad-
vantage.  Of course, we all know it is very
“unfeminine” for women to have talent,
but when they are possessed of such an un-
usual gift, it is presumptive evidence that
the faculty was intended for use. The
woman in the New Testament whom Christ
decreed should have honorable mention
wherever the Gospel was preached, was she
who had "done what she could.” Could
that have been said of Rosa Bonheur if she
had spent her life chanting infant lullabys?
And, although Harriet Hosmer would
doubtless have made an excellent wife and
mother, has she not achieved a higher des-
tiny, by hewing with her mallet and chisel
a new path for all women who have genius
and courage to follow her? Then, too, Miss
Edgeworth did the world good service when,
instead of marrying and burying her talent
in a napkin, because in her day it was “un-
feminine” for women to write, spoke the
truth that was in her, and thus exercised a
salutary influence over hundreds of nurser-
ies.
	That the married woman surrounded by
her little family, provided she has a hus-
band whom who can love, honor and obey
(which, with all due deference to the supe-
rior sex, does not always follow), will be the
happier woman, no sensible person will at-
tempt to deny. But that a woman must be
stigmatized because she is unmarried; that
any sort of a marriage brings happiness, and
that all women who seek happiness in other
directions are unfeminine, is the height of
absurdity. Besides, as the census assures
us, “they couldn’t if they would.” In
spite of themselves, at least half a million of
women now living in this land of happy
[Column 3]
homes and firesides must be deprived of the 
hitherto indispensable nursery; and so, gen-
tlemen, what do you propose to do with
them.—From the Phrenological Journal.


For the EXPONENT.
		SELF KNOWLEDGE.

	We have daily opportunities which may
contribute to making life grand and success-
ful. It is something to "know thyself." He is
who best knows himself is the one most un-
conscious of self. We have much to learn,
and a good deal within ourselves to subdue.
If every day of the year was valuably spent,
we would not travel too fast.  Feasting on
the charms of a beautiful landscape; making
acquaintance with the ideas of some enter-
taining author; or dispensing our influence
for the elevation of society: these we con-
sider among the most choice enjoyments of
our existence. But the eye will tire of land-
scapes be they ever so beautiful; the mind
requires rest from exaustive study; and
occasional solitude makes the society of
friends even more sweet. Here the plainest
duties of our lives lie before us. To do bet-
ter, to be better. We meet with a few per-
sons whose natural and most prominent ele-
ment of character is goodness; but the most
of us have to try pretty hard to equal them.
There has many a genius shown before the
world whose excellencies of conduct were
far inferior to the fame they bore; but such
have been admired rather than loved. Who
cares for the greatness that is not inclusive
of goodness? The heart's progress should
keep pace with that of the mind, and if a
difference there must be, let the former go a
little ahead. A strong, sharp, steely intel-
lect unwarmed by a humble, confessing heart
is as cold and unloveable as the Arctic re-
gions.
	We were born pure, but the world's edu-
cation has perverted the simple intentions
of nature, and selfishness and artifice is the
result. Does necessity bind us to remain so?
I think not. We can train our dispositions
and be what we like. Everyone almost has
peculiarly original traits of character. Those
that are noble can be improved by cultiva-
tion, and the pernicious ones may be over-
come.
	We are unused to self-criticism. Some of
our very faults we mistake for virtues. Un-
til we can learn the habit of home correction
we need not hope to become very nearly
perfect. The child that has been taught to
confess his faults is more sure of a useful
education than the one to whom the ac-
knowledgment is a stranger. Hard think-
ing is what we need. To be sure, a day's
good business requires some reflection; but
in its constant turmoil the better part of our
natures is liable to be suppressed, unless we
improve the minute chances offered us to
find out where we are, and what there is of 
us.
	The evening is a good time for self com-
munion; to ask ourselves if we have to-day
repaired the fault of yesterday. It often
happens that our best intentions are
known only to God, and the noblest actions
of men, I believe, are hidden from the
world's sight. Self reproofs may bring no
laurels while we tarry on this earth, but it
is a triumph over ignorance and blindness of
which the angels will take note. Cultivate
then a disposition  be entirely honest with
“myself,” and in doing so, you will be very
sure to deal fairly with others,
							KENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1875.


SPLINTERS.
			    LOCAL.
	The amount of freight shipped over the
Utah Central and Utah Southern Railroads
during the month of February was 37.525,
558 pounds......Jean Clara Walters, as "Ca-
mille," on the occasion of her benefit, drew
the best house Salt Lake theatre goers have
witnessed for some time......the interior of
the post office, last week, received a new
coat of paint......Reports of the Sabbath
Schools of the different Wards in this city
show that an increasing interest is being
awakened both among teachers and schol-
ars......The "Beaver Enterprise" which has
been sent to its subscribers for some time on
half-sheets only, hopes its troubles in get-
ting paper are over, and promises its patrons
better supplies......The editor of the "Utah
Pomologist" informs his friends that he has
discovered another new plant in Dixie. 
		PERSONAL.
	Mrs. Yoshida at Washington, lately re-
ceived a visit from Miss Yamagawa Nagai,
and Miss Shinge Sutematsu, two young Jap-
anese ladies......Mrs. J. M. Osgood, a favor-
ite soprano of Boston; has gone to Europe to
take lessons in music......Bishop Sharp, of
the 20th Ward of this city, has been elected 
a director of the U. P. R. R. Company......
Charles Sprague, the venerable banker poet
recently died in Boston, aged 83 years......
Bismarck, at the request of the Emperor,
will take a six months' vacation......Fred
Douglass is stumping New Hampshire in be-
half of the Republicans......Patti and Nils-
son are both in their thirty second year......
Govenor Bedle of New Jersey has nomina-
ted Manning M. Knapp of Bergen County,
as his own successor on the Supreme Court
Bench......Ellen B. Kingsley, of Olathe,
Kansas, has been invited to address the
State Legislature, on the industrial educa-
tion of women.
			GENERAL.
	Boston has one hundred and seventy-five
male and one thousand, sixty-six female
teachers......Congress has passed a bill to
check the importation of Asiatic women
.......It is believed that the cold weather has
entirely destroyed the fruit crop of Michi-
gan......Kansas contains three thousand, five
hundred and forty three school hosues;
three hundred and ninety-nine of them
have been built the past year.


"AS THE TWIG IS BENT."

	We often hear mothers wondering why
their daughters are so indolent, or ignorant
of household matters, or so careless in their
habits. They complain, and scold and fret
over it, but they make no attempt to teach
them any better.  The fault lies with the
mothers themselves; instead of training
their girls to habits of industry and neat-
ness, instead of instructing them in house-
hold ways, they have allowed them to grow
up without any training at all.  Girls are
not going to learn these things themselves;
they must be taught from the time they
are old enough to know how to be neat and
industrious. Train them carefully in house-
hold ways; teach them how to make pud-
dings, and cakes, and pickles, and pre-
serves: show them how to be tidy about a
house how to do everything in the neatest
manner.  Teach them both by precept and
example; it is worth the trouble; for, in-
stead of having drones and slatterns about
you, you will have well-trained and useful
helps.


ORDINARY PEOPLE.

	Very often we do not sufficiently appreci-
ate the ordinary type of character. We are
prone to underrate a character which is
without bold and striking traits. Genius,
eccentric, unstable, unpracticable, we es-
teem above those substantial, well-balanced
qualities, which we call "talents," and
which achieve real success. Those moral
characteristics which are most apparent and
demonstrative, draw attention from the ster-
ling, genuine worth which reveals itself
only on better acquaintance. As Everett
said of Washington, to depreciate a man be-
cause his character has only that harmonious
completeness which presents no bold and
conspicuous inequalities, is like finding
fault with a circle because it has no salient
points or angles, forgetting that the very
perfection of a circle demands that every
point in its curve shall be equi-distant from 
its center.


IN EARNEST.

	Fortunes, both of time and money, may be
spent in selecting and collecting books. The
works of renowned historians, scientists, doc-
tors, naturalists, philosophers and theologians,
and of all the great artists and poets may be
gathered, and a most complete library formed.
But, to what will all that amount?
	What will it profit one to be the owner of a
thousand precious volumes, who cares not to
familiarize and enrich the mind with the truths
which they contain? Not so much as the pos-
session of a single volume will the careful stu-
dent who becomes thoroughly acquainted with
it.
	Or even if the mind should be stored with
great treasures of wisdom, what benefit can be
realized therefrom, what reward met for all the
time spent, and pains taken, except the infor-
mation gained is applied to practical use?
	Laws and notes pertaining to physiology, hy-
giene and longevity may be studied for years
without the slightest beneficial result, if the
knowledge received be not utilized. While a
week’s reading, if put to proper account, may
accomplish a vast deal of good.
	The same rule applies to all other acquire-
ments. Wealth may be amassed, but if not
used to adorn and beautify, to enliven and make
happy, it were as well that it be scattered
broadcast as placed in an unserviceable, grace-
less heap.
	For many years the Latter-day Saints have
had the privilege of being instructed in the
ways of eternal life and salvation. The honest,
the pure, the sincere among them, those who
have been earnest in seeking to learn, realize
that their labors have in no wise been in vain.
They have treasured up wisdom for practical
purposes.


And still it is necessary that they become
more and more in earnest in striving to do the
will of the Lord on earth as it is done in heav
en, that truth may triumph and the enemies o
righteousness may be o'erthrown.


TO THE SISTERS.

	The "Utah Pomologist" for February, con-
tains an excellent article on "Important Home
Industries." We re-publish portions of it,
which treat of some of those branches in which
the ladies are more particularly interested.
	"The varied soil and climate of our Territory
give us opportunity above all other states and
territories to produce all we really need, besides
very many luxuries we can well do without.
Aside from the ordinary varieties of grain,
vegetables and fruits that grow abundantly and
generally through all our valleys, there are
many specialities that might be taken hold of
with great public and individual advantage,
saving thousands and soon millions of our
money from going abroad to furnish the goods
we may better supply to ourselves. Now we
will name some of the industries that might
and ought to be, developed by our citizens, and
not only furnish ourselves, but also our neigh-
boring states and territories with many neces-
saries we are now importing, and thus unneces-
sarily draining our country of what little mon-
ey may be afloat.
				SUGAR.
	The great staple of sugar takes from our ter-
ritory annually nearly a hundred thousand dol-
lars.  Here in the South we have soil and cli-
mate for sugar cane; and there is no country
in the world better adapted to the growth of
sugar beets than Utah generally.  Let the
amount expended one year for sugar be inves-
ted in machinery and set the people to raising
cane and sugar beets and this great drainage is
stopped. 
ROPES, CORDAGE, BAGGING AND CLOTH.
	Throughout the territory several textile plants
grow well, and here in the South all varieties
flourish abundantly. Hemp, flax, cotton, tam-
pico, jute and ramie may be grown here, and
the staple of these furnish all our ropes, cord-
age, bagging, grain sacks, warps for carpets and
summer clothing; and with wool, and mohair
from the Angora and Thibet goats, and silk,
adorn ourselves in the finest fabrics ever cut
from the loom.  Wool can be grown as cheap
here in the South as in California; and we can-
not read of any country where silk-worms are
more healthy or will produce as many crops per
year as in this region.
	Besides all the above textiles, we have thou-
sands of acres of Yucca on our deserts, which
furnish a staple, which, when shipped from
Central America, is called "Tampico," or Sea
Grass, makes strong ropes and cords, and is
much used for brushes, and even dyed and
braided to ornament the heads of our wives
and daughters, under the name of "Switches." 
	We have a great abundance of water power,
and able manufactureres and only need the en-
ergy and enterprise of our people stirred up
that another hundred thousand twice told, may
be saved at home to assist us to more capital,
that other new industries may be started.
OILS—CASTOR, SWEET AND ESSENTIAL.
	The Castor Oil Bean grows here very luxu-
riantly and so does the Bean from which much
of the sweet and salad oil of commerce is made.
Linseed, as we have said, does well. Sunflow-
ers are native to this country.  All of these
make valuable oils, and so does the seed of
grapes and cotton, and we have reason to be-
lieve that the Olive may be grown here.
	Then there are many native plants that yield
oil by distilation: Cedar, Southernwood, Eri-
geron, Peppermint, Wormwood, &c.
	Should we create a supply for our own peo-
ple for the various uses required, we might
count another twenty-five thousand dollars
saved at home.
FRUIT—CANNED, DRIED AND PRESERVED.
	No one will question the high excellence and
flavor of our fruits, and of these in great varie-
ty we can raise to any extent. There is at
least twenty-five thousand dollars expended
every year for canned fruit, then how much
more for wine, raisins and other dried and pre-


[Column 1]
served fruit, we are unable to say, but probably
a like amount. And all this we might save at
home, for our grapes will make as good wine
and raisins as those of France or Spain; and as
for prunes, figs, almonds and other nuts, we
can not only supply ourselves but our neigh-
bors also.
	Fruit canning is a simple process, and can be
done as well here as in Baltimore or San Fran-
cisco, and bring us a revenue instead of deplet-
ing our purses.
	RICE, (upland), SWEET POTATOE, PEANUTS
			AND BROOM-CORN,
All important products and costing us a hand-
some sum each year, may be produced here in
abundance, and much enlarge our industries
and exports, if taken hold of energetically.
		SILK CULTURE
Is an industry very specially adapted to our
circumstances and business of great magnitude
which has only been experimented with enough
to show its adaptibility and prove that here
four crops of silk may be made from the same
trees each season. The eggs produced here are
most valuable and the cocoons bring a premi-
um. Now who is ready to undertake this light
and profitable business.
			HONEY.
	Honey is also a staple delicacy, and always
obtained at great profit to the apiarian. It
brings a high price at home and among our
neighbors in the mining camps. Very few dis-
tricts have as many bees as may be profitably
kept, and but very few have any at all.
	If this industry was up to the capacity of
forage, every thousand inhabitants might have
from two to five tons of honey, which, if made
by consumers, at an average expense of five
cents per pound."
	"Many are called but few chosen." Every
branch of the Relief Society throughout the
length and breadth of this Territory, and
wherever a branch of the Church extends, is
called upon to lay hold of this subject of home
industry with a will, and to take active part in
the great work of bringing about the perfect
organization of a self-sustaining people. A few
may be chosen to lead out in some special
branches, but necessarily is it left for the many
to look about them, consider to what their ten-
dencies and circumstances are best adapted,
and move forward.
	Shall we wait one for another? Can we af-
ford to wait in the consumption of food, of
clothing, of life's necessities? Let each branch,
and each member of a branch remember that
all are consumers and that not one should be
satisfied to acknowledge herself in all respects
a non-producer.
	There is paying work enough before this peo-
ple to keep them all well employed. If any
one fails to see at a glance, a way of introduc-
ing the kind of work best suited to her capaci-
ties, or if she is ignorant of her own abilities
to accomplish something worthy of regard, let
her begin and exercise her brain a little. And
if she is in earnest, without fail, something
will come to light from which she may deter-
mine at what point she can best commence.
	Just now, our mind reverts back a few years,
to a time when we were personally acquainted
with an English lady who made very fine
beautiful lace. Pillow lace, she called it, as it was
woven upon a pillow, the fabric held in place
by pins, while she tossed about numerous little
bodkins which contained the thread. That
was the trade by which her father had suppor-
ted himself and family, and which he taught
her when a child.
	Here the thought occurs, why should the
daughters of Zion pay money to strangers for
lace collars and trimmings, while among them-
selves are members, capable of producing the
same articles? We doubt not there are many
such weavers among this people. Suppose,
however, there could be but one woman found
in the great family of Latter-day Saints, who
[Column 2]
had mastered the business of lace making.
Could she be expected to make, with her own
hands, enough or a quarter of the amount re-
quired by her beauty-loving sisters? No, but
she might be able to do a thousandth part of
it; and she could easily teach hundreds of oth-
ers how to do the same, and thus the demand
for laces, would be supplied.  In like manner
everything desirable may, in a few years, be
furnished us at home; and we shall have a sur-
plus of goods to sell to our neighbors instead of
buying of them.
	It is now quite generally conceded that the
influence which woman wields is the standard
power of a community or nation. President
Young does the Relief Society the credit to
say that they can take hold of these home in-
dustries and accomplish the desired purpose.
Let it never be said to them, "Ye would not!"
	It is now time that those who purpose inter-
esting themselves in silk culture, commencing
this season, should be making calculations for
a start. As soon as the ground is sufficiently
thawed, the mulberry cuttings should be put
out. We understand that President Young
proffers to supply cuttings from his orchard to
the sisters for this purpose. And his advice to
them is, that they begin now, instead of put-
ting off for another year what should be done
this.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE "UTAH Pomologist"—owned and edited
by J. E. Johnson of St. George—appears in an
enlarged and improved form.
	AT FOUR o'clock on the, afternoon of the fifth
inst., the last stone was laid, which completed
the mason work upon the St. George Temple.
	A CONSIDERABLE amount of snow has fallen
in this valley since the beginning of Spring;
but almost every alternate day the sun shines
warm and bright, and anon the white carpet
disappears.
	THE ERECTION of a Scandinavian Public
Hall is contemplated by the people of that na-
tionality in this city. It is designed to be used
as a place for religious services, and also as a
home of welcome for newly arrived emigrants
from Scandinavia.
	THE THIRTEENTH Ward branch of the Re-
lief Society, gave a very entertaining party on
the evening of the tenth inst. Presidents
Young and Wells gladdened the occasion for a
short time with their genial presence. The
hall was not crowded, but those who did par-
ticipate, passed an evening of rare social en-
joyment.


[First column]
			﻿HUMILITY.
WRITTEN FOR, AND READ BEFORE A RE-
	TRENCHMENT MEETING OF THE ELEVENTH
	WARD, S. L. CITY.
	When our Savior was asked by His dis-
ciples, who was greatest in the kingdom of
heaven, He called a little child unto Him
and sat him in the midst of them and said,
"Verily I say unto you, except ye be con-
verted and become as little children, ye can-
not enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoso-
ever, therefore, shall humble himself as this
little child, the same is greatest in the king-
dom of heaven?"
	The teachings of Jesus on this subject
were very pointed and forcible. He not
only exhorted His followers to cultivate this
greatest of all traits of human character, but
was Himself the most perfect example.
[Column 2]
That trait which will make us the greatest
and best, most amiable and god-like is the
one we should the most earnestly seek to
possess. Although we should cultivate all
those noble attributes which make the per-
fect man or woman, but first endeavor to
develop the leading virtues, the moving
powers of those subordinate, but none the
less essential to our perfection. What spirit
is more beautiful to contemplate than that of
humility, meekness, submission to all things
pure and just? It is the noblest feeling of
the heart, one that the purified of heaven
can look upon with pleasure and approba-
tion. It invites, and is possessed of power
to retain the spirit of God. Our Savior said
"Blessed are the meek, for they shall inher-
it the earth." The histories of past genera-
tions bear record that the Lord delights in
an humble people, and He blesses them
with peace and prosperity so long as they
remain teachable, and humble enough to
receive the instructions of His servants.
But when they through neglect of prayer,
would allow the spirit of pride, arrogance
and harshness to creep into their hearts, He
would withdraw His spirit from them and
suffer them to be scourged and destroyed by
their enemies. It is so with us as individ-
uals; if we are not meek and contrite, our
Father will withdraw the light of His spirit
from us and the powers of the adversary will
assail us on every hand.
	The fault of youth, when just starting in
life, filled with brilliant anticipations of a
glorious and satisfactory future, is too much
confidence in self, being regardless of the
teachings and warnings of personal experi-
ence. They rely too much upon their own
responsibility, with the idea that they can
accomplish whatever they please; and too
often forget that there is One above who
holds their destiny in His hands. Through
pride we are sometimes persuaded to ac-
cept positions for which we are not quali
fied. It is always best to take the lowest
position until we merit a higher. "He that
exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that
humbleth himself shall be exalted." It
grieves the spirit of the Lord when His
children sit themselves up in judgement
against the instructions of His servants and
inspired prophets, those whom we should
daily exhort Our Father in Heaven to fill
with wisdom and intelligence to impart to
us. A sure test of our humility is the way
we receive reproof or correction for mis-
deeds. If humble we will be grateful to
those who show us our faults, and seek to
overcome them. But on the contrary, where
pride bears sway we will be quickly offen-
ded, resent censure and rise up in self justi-
fication. Humility is founded on a jus-
consideration of the position we hold to Him
who placed us here and by whose mercies
we are sustained. It arises from reflection
on our own weaknesses. The most humble
persons live the nearest to God, are ever un-
assuming, gentle and courteous. Their
presence creates a feeling of contentment
and security; they are slow to censure and
their aim is to promote peace and happiness.
It is the possession of humility united with
the other many virtues of the heart, that
will save us in the presence of Him who
said "I dwell in the hearts of the contrite."
	Let us endeavor to become charitable and
forgiving, just and virtuous; to love God
and keep his commandments, love Him
with all our might, mind and strength, and
our neighbors as ourselves," then shall we
perform the whole duty of man.     L. T.


TRUST not the praise of a friend nor the
contempt of an enemy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
		RESIGNATION.
Out in the frozen night,
	Moonbeams falling round,
Chilling moonbeams, wan and white,
	Asleep on the dreary ground.
One brillant, lone, bright star,
	Seems resting gently now—
Where a dark line meets the open sky,
	On the mountain's rugged brow.
So near to the verge it seems,
	Looking up from where I stand,
That a child would think, could it gain that spot.
	It might grasp it with outstretched hand.
And the thought comes over my soul,
	With a bitter, painful start,
It is even thus with the brilliant hopes
	That rest in the human heart.
They seem so near to our lives;
	So firm in their beauty clear,
That we dream not their source is far out in heaven
	While only the light falls here;
'Till the clouds of this care-worn world,
	Drifting up in their gloom and wrath,
Hide the beautiful rays, and we find no more,
	Their tracings along our path.
And shadows creep over the soul,
	Their presence pierce eye and brain
With voiceless cries for the vanished light,
	'Till the heart grows still with pain.
And sometimes out from that silence deep,
	Breaks a whisper low and light,
Chasing the sorrow from eyes that weep,
	Changing the gloomiest night.
And our souls are filled with that holy love
	Coming down from Eternity's throne,
As we murmur with patient and pleading hearts
	"God's will is above our own!"
Out in the solemn night,
	Moonbeams falling round,
Beautiful moonbeams, warm and bright,
	Veiling the frozen ground.
And the mountains bleak in their rugged might,
	Are a covert for peaceful walls;
The star looks down with a tender light,
	A tear-drop starts—and falls.
							MILLICENT.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Hints on Cooking.—Dried grains, or meal and
flour prepared from dried grains, are generally more
wholesome and digestible when cooked slowly and
a long time.  Soaking or fermenting aids the cook,
though both are objectionable if we want the very
best food.  Wheat, beans, hominy, etc., are far
sweeter and more nutritious if well washed and
put into plenty of "cold water" and slowly brought
to boil, and then kept boiling slowly for several
hours. Where salt is put into such food it should 
be added when the grain is quite done, and cooked
in for only half an hour.  All preparations of In-
dian corn require much longer cooking to make
them wholesome than those made from wheat.
	Fresh vegetables generally require to be put into
boiling water, and to be cooked more rapidly.
Steaming, which is the hottest mode of cooking, is
the most complete, and prepares vegetables with
all their juices and aroma.  It is a great mistake
to leave the kettle uncovered while any green vege-
table is cooking.
	Greases of any kind melted and cooked into food
destroys the best taste of any food.  If it is to be
used at all, it should be thoroughly worked into
some other ingredient before adding it to the arti-
cle which is cooking, or to be cooked.  In all
cases where flour and butter are to be put in mix
them together, and then the butter will not float
nor will the flour lump. Sugar and butter mixed
will produce the same effect. Suet for puddings
can be left out with but little perceptible effect on
their richness, by supplying the place with the
same quantity of scalded cream or rich milk.
	Greasing baking pans can be accomplished with
less grease by using a firm swab to rub the pan, or

[Column 2]
a cloth rolled up, and rubbing the pan with a very
little grease. A crust of bread rubbed hard upon
a griddle will cure it of sticking
	Scalding flour or meal partly cooks and sweetens
them, and prevents rapid fermentation.  Scalding
milk does the same. Scalded sour milk becomes
sweet, the whey separated from the curd is easily
digested, and is better than shortening in bread.
	Milk and eggs are completely cooked so as to be
of easy digestion, in a few minutes; or if cooked
longer, it should be for at least an hour, as baked
slowly for an hour they become very soft and rich,
really excellent.  They seem to be easily digested
also, after this long cooking.  Meats in the same
way should be cooked rare, or a long time.
	One fresh egg is worth two of those where the
yolks break while breaking the shells; for making
custard, cakes, etc., they should not be used at all;
better to do without the custards or cakes, or make
them with cream yeast and corn starch. Many
excellent dishes otherwise, are spoiled by  addi-
tion of eggs; rice, for instance, baked with milk
for several hours makes the very best pudding we
know of, but with eggs it is positively abominable;
it needs no further description.
	To cook fruits just right requires care and skill; 
apple sauce is a very simple preparation, but, like
almost everything else, must be attended to in
every detail if we would have a nice wholesome
dish. It depends entirely on the kind or quality of
the apple whether it should be cooked a short or a 
long time; fine grained apples generally make the 
best sauce or pies.  Never sweeten stewed fruits
until they are quite soft and pulpy, and then cook
but a few minutes afterward.
	In simply canning fruit of any kind, no sugar
should be used if we wish uniform success; and no
trouble of doing them over.  If you know how to
can fruits, try them without sugar and see how
much more invariably your success and how much
nearer the real natural flavor of the fruit you will
approach.  There is another secret of successful
canning worth knowing, that is, after filling the 
can as full as it will hold, let it stand open five or
ten minutes, shake it down once or twice and put
in another spoonful, then put the lid on and seal it
down.  All the air is removed by this simple ven-
ture, and you will seldom find a can bursting or the
fruit spoiling.  We have canned bushels of peaches,
tomatoes, and ever other desirable fruit within our
reach, with unvarying success, in this way.  In a
word, the simplest and most economical way of
cooking, in  every department, is generally the bet-
ter way.  There is a great deal of natural science
in good cooking, as we will often find that the "rea-
son why" is easily found if we apply some simple
lesson of chemistry.—Herald of Health.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	GOOD food secures good digestion, and
with good digestion half the ills of life take
to themselves wings and fly away.
	REMOVING WARTS.—Dr. Guttceit recom-
mends rubbing warts, night and morning, 
with a moistened piece of muriate of am-
monia. They soften and dwindle away,
leaving no such white mark as follows their
dispersion with lunar caustic.
	BEST POSITION FOR SLEEPING.—Is it well
when lying down to have the head even
with the body?
	ANS.—The body should not be confined to
one position in sleep, more than when
awake. Variety is essential; still, general-
ly, it is best to sleep principally on the side,
varying it to partially on the face, and occa-
sionally on the back. The head should be
even with the body. If sleeping on the 
side, a thin pillow will be necessary to bring
the head on a line with the body.—Herald of
Health.
	A SIMPLE METHOD OF VENTILATION.—


A piece of wood, three inches high and ex-
actly as long as the breadth of the window;
is to be prepared.  Let the sash be now
raised, the slip of wood placed on the sill,
and the sash let down closely upon it.  If the
slip has been well fitted, there will be no
draft in consequence of the displacement of
the sash at its lower part, but the top of the
lower sash will overlap the bottom of the
upper one, and between the bars perpendic-
ular currents of air, not felt, will enter and 
leave the room.
	SCARLET FEVER.—Upon the recommen-
dation of Schneeman, the anointing of the
body with fat in cases of scarlet fever has 
been extensively practised in Germany for
a number of years.  Cocoa butter is recom-
mended for this purpose. In severe fevers,
the entire surface of the body should be
rubbed every hour or at least once in four
hours.  The same treatment is recommend-
ed for typhoid fever,and other inflammatory
diseases, especially inflammatory rheuma-
tism, and tuberculosis.
	S. C. HALL, a distinguished English
writer, whose wife is equally well known as
an authoress, says in a letter to the Herald
of Health: "Thank God, though most three
score and ten—I by three years and my
wife by not much less—we enjoy good
health; are still at work.  I published a book 
in 1820, and Mrs. Hall began to write in 
1825, soon after our marriage, the 20th of
September, 1824.  We have a happy retro-
spect, for which we give God thanks, and a 
prospect that we shall be together, grateful
and prayerful to Him through eternity.  To
temperance we owe our health, to faith and
trust in God our many blessings.


For the EXPONENT.
		FAITH VERSUS FORM.

	Seeds are often small things but they are
the beginnings of organized life.  In spirit-
ual things no faith, no life; no faith im-
planted, no growth. Not that all seeds grow,
or that all faith grows and ripens to fruition.
As seeds grow by that which comes from
above, so does faith, with this difference; the
substance that faith thrives on must be ask-
ed for.
	I had received the gospel.  The "still
small voice" that had whispered, and
whispered, at last spoke audibly by the lips
of the servants of the Lord, and, the voice
was known.
	How natural it is for memory to recur to
the scenes of childhood; what fancy pictures
are shown to the mind's eye, indistinct but
charming as seen in the distant past.  After
many years had past away I visited my na-
tive home, how dwarfed and different, things
seemed when in reality.  The cozy little
nooks that I had seen beneath the hawthorn
hedges, so velvety and flower adorned that
fairies might have dwelt in them were ban-
ished.  But in their place there were wild
flowers such as I had not seen in childhood;
if the meadows seemed contracted in size,
there were the same old familiar trees around
the same natural objects to look upon, even
to the butter-cups and daisies.
	And these, I felt, are thine, my Father!
how beautiful all nature looked. The
heavens more gay and golden; the air I
breathed more elastic, the fragrance of the
May-bloom more delightful.
	How natural for me to visit the old col-
legiate church. The approaches to the ven-
erable edifice were the same, the very tomb-
stones in the church-yard might have been
the same, the church which had stood for
centuries was wholly unchanged. With


feelings of profound veneration I entered,
more than a third of a century had past since
I had crossed that threshold.  There stood
the font in which I had been baptized ac-
cording to the Anglican mode, by sprinkling.
The chancel was unchanged; the same tiny
glass panes in the windows, the same sub-
dued but gorgeous colors streaming in
through the stained glass that represented
apostles and saints as fancy has painted
them; there were the effigies* of warriors
and knights reposing at full length on the
tombs just as I had seen them with a sense
of mystery in the days of childhood.  The
same little niches and recesses that I had
often wondered where they could possibly
lead to, marble tablets with little cherubs
sitting on them and angels blowing trump-
ets towards the ceiling. There was no
change perceptable in all these long, long
years. 
	The services commenced. There were
the childish choristers in vestments of the
fairest white, standing in the same order
that I had seen them around the magnificent
organ.  The priest in his desk read the
prayers with faultless intonation. Beneath
him stood the clerk who lead the responses
which were inaudibly uttered by the peo-
ple. I found myself falling into a reverie
and wondering why the priest was dressed
in white and the clerk in black. Why could
I not feel as I had felt in the fields?
	I looked around at the congregation and
I wished myself away to weep for the deso-
lation of the people; but the music spared
me.  The organ pealed forth in almost hu-
man voice accompanied by the voices of old
and young in sacred song.
	"Praise God from whom all blessings flow."
	O Father! when will all thy children sing
thy praises understandingly. We, as a peo-
ple have the Priesthood—living oracles, life-
giving ordinances.  This is something to
teach our children, to inspire them with
faith. We may have to leave them for a 
season; we may have to look down upon
them struggling through this probation, but
angels will minister to them, and we shall
meet again! 
						AVONDALE.
	*It was a practice from very early ages to
bury warriors and distinguished persons in
churches, abbeys and cathedrals, over whose
remains were erected tombs on which were
the effigies or likeness of the departed.
Warriors were represented in armor, bish-
ops in ecclesiastical habilimenss, kings and
queens with the insignia or signs of royal-
ity &c.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			 	
.﻿


[Column 2]
	WHY SOME WOMEN WRITE.
BY BLANCHE REECHWOOD.
					E.B. WELLS
	Is it, think you, for the love of scribbling?
Is that the clearly distinguishing character-
istic?  Is it to describe unheard of adven-
tures, or record exaggerated marvels? Is
it to show up people's faults in glowing col-
ors, to descant upon the virtues of our sex
and the corruptions of mankind?  Is it to
generalize into grander shape humble indi-
vidualities, or to glorify the picture of a
cottage with the colorings of imagination?
Is it to exalt and idealize the beggar into a
hero, with plenty of similar adventures and
circumstantials, with perfectly identical
ideas, on all imaginable topics? Such nov-
elties are called for, in this halcyon age of
authorship—this summer season for the "So-
sii," this every day a birthday for a hun-
dred books—this recognized literary tribu-
nal, this judgment hall of master spirits,

[Column 2]
who swell the ranks of journalists, of editors
and book children.
	Is it to tear the veil of decent privacy
from social life, to rebuke, betray and de-
stroy confidence; to gratify a public appe-
tite for secret information?  God forbid!
This unhallowed spirit of outward curiosity;
this trespassing upon the sacred precincts
of private circles for hinted scandal, to pub-
lish to the world, is to my mind a thing to
be feared.  The present hunger for this
kind of reading, is a thing to be exclaimed
against; one should shrink with horror, from 
"this lengthy snake with a rattle in its
tail."
	Everybody writes to everybody about
everything; or as oftener happens, about
nothing.  Some people are born to talk with
an incessant tongue, some to write, to chat-
ter in print, such being their character from
birth.  Heaven give US wisdom and a judg-
ment strong enough, to rein-in imagination;
and surround us with wholesome counsels
from better living minds.
	Frail mortals we! With all the imperfec-
tions of our common natures, we enter the list
with others, accepting necessarily common
praise or censure as the case may be.  Ideas
may be round about us thick as daisies in a
summer meadow.  But as Sir Philip Sidney
said, "Look into your own heart and write.
And as I have no personalities to complain
of, no self-interests to serve, for the past
have been well entreated, for the future I
will not suggest even a possibility.  I pray
you, gentle reader, be charitable to mixtures
of alternate gaiety and soberness, as in thine
own mind if thou searchest, thou shalt find
a sympathy for woman's weaknesses, and
'a charity which covereth a multitude of
faults.'" Let us not be too severe in indi-
vidual confessions, nor play the hypocrite,
but tell the truth, and be consistent as we
can of frailties incident to mortality. Let
us weave our net, though of various tex-
tures, carefully—and leave the harvest of
praise or blame for those critics who shall
come after us.  We will not, according to
the vulgar saying, "give the colt his head
and let him go;" but strive by rein, and bit,
and all possible equipments, to become a re-
sponsible rider, touching his ears but light-
ly, lest we loose our balance.
	And now an honest word at parting; if
you should find out the veritable name of
your weak, confessing scribe, think not the
less kindly of her; and while with inde-
fatigable industry and untiring patience, we
exercise our powers of mind, and humble
judgment, in sounding forth our woman's
opinion, although strongly enough expressed
—judge, not hastily, or superciliously.  peo-
ple think very much as they are told to
think, speaking generally, without question;
guided by their teachers, without calling
into exercise their own capacity, patience or
will. And the grand fault is the everlast-
ing hurry; for  very lack of time—perhaps
wearied, or piqued, or biased, jump at a
conclusion, and join in public opinion with
a voice of thunder.


IN India there is one Christian preacher
to about a million heathens.  In some of our
Christian villages there are half a dozen
preachers to a few hundred souls.
	THE officers of the People's Savings In-
stitution of St. Louis have made an assign-
ment.  The amount of deposits is about
$60,000 belonging to about 2000 people.
	IT is stated as a historical fact, that no
man who has graduated at the head of his
class at Havard College, within the last
fifty-five years, has used spirits or tobacco in
any form.


ABOUT DRAWING
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Not only woman, but also man can feel
interested in the good work in which your
valuable paper is engaged, and I for one, al-
ways read with pleasure, articles intended
to do good to young and old. In a late
number of the Exponent, the subject of
drawing, in Schools is treated upon from a
moral and physiological stand point. The
arguments are correct, I know by my own
experience.
	It is desireable that our young folks, boys
and girls also should find enjoyments more
elevating and noble than those which quite
a number form acquaintance with, which
although often harmless in themselves tend
to keep their minds below the height to
which they can attain if only properly cared
for. I never, in my mind, dwelt much on
the physiological result, but felt always cer-
tain that the world can be greatly improved
by the cultivation of the fine arts, for he
who loves the beautiful, loves the good.
	One great end we should have in view in
teaching drawing is "the material building
of Zion, the New Jerusalem."(?)
	We are told, and are pleased sometimes
to dream of its magnificent sceneries, its
sublime aspects and all its various beauties.
But how are all these to be attained? Cer-
tainly drawing will fill a great part in such
a work, and men (and also women) will be
engaged in it.
	Surveyors to plan the city, architects to
design its buildings and monuments, sculptors
to ornament them, painters to adorn their
chambers; these need and cannot possibly do
their part without a thorough knowledge of
of drawing. Even mechanics engaged in the
different branches of building, are more
skilled when they are good draughtsmen;
they aer better able to understand and ex-
ecute the plans and designs confided to them.
	And what of the Ladies' part? Well,
what of the beautiful tapestry, curtains, car-
pets, and so many other beauties of loom or
needle work! Shall we then be satisfied
with our old fashioned rag carpets or our star
spangled quilts. I doubt it very much.
Ladies will find a great work to perform in
beautifying the Kingdom, although they are
themselves already its chief beauty.
	Let all who desire to do their part, learn,
or teach or encourage in every possible way
the study of drawing. A good will is the
principal stock required in such a study,
and many great artists were self-made
artists; God is for us, and will bless all our
endeavors to do good.
	Although not an artist myself, I am a lover
of art and if it is possible, I certainly will
do my part; and I will say before I close,
that having studied drawing alone, I can en-
courage others, saying that it is not difficult,
but it takes a great deal of patience and self
reliance in the beginning.
	I subscribe myself your brother in the
Gospel.						P. L.


﻿THE Smith Sisters of Glastonbury, Ct.,
whose case against Tax Collector Andrews
for seizing their land for non-payment of
taxes, has been decided against them in the
Court of Common Pleas at Hartford, will
appeal to the Supreme Court.


MISS LOUISA LEE SCHUYLER has made a 
partial examination of different systems of
reform in England and Germany, and is en-
deavoring to carry out in this country some
of the good ideas which have been suggest-
ed to her by such an inspection.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.
	MRS. ELIZABETH K. CHURCHCHILL, has
just returned to her home. No. 138 Pine St.,
Providence, R. I., from a very successful
lecturing tour in the West.
	IT is said of Mrs. M. H. Holt, of South
Edmeston, N. Y., that through her efforts,
united with a few other faithful workers,
not one drop of liquor is now sold in that
place. It has become a community of in-
dustry, temperance, peace and love.
	QUEEN VICTORIA, on recommendation of
her Prime Minister, has granted a pension
of $250 year to the widow of Giovani
Battista Falcieri, the servant of Byron, who
is celebrated in the writings of his master,
as well as in those of Moore, Rogers and
Shelley, by the name of "Tita."
	MISS SNEAD, who, as "Miss Grundy," is
familiar to most newspaper readers is dan-
gerously ill; she has been in poor health for
two or three years. Miss Snead deserves a 
separate niche in the history of Washington
journalism. She was the first "society
writer" from Washington City.
	THE Crown Princess of Germany has pre-
sented as a Christmas gift to the widow of
Professor Schwabe, late Director of the Ber-
lin Statistical Office, in recognition of his
active assistance to the Crown Princess's ef-
forts for the amelioration of the social posi-
tion of women, an annual addition of 200
thalers to her pension.
	MISS ELLEN D. LARNED, of Thompson,
Ct., has just commenced issuing by sub-
scription the first volume of the History of 
Windham Co., Ct. Her first date is 1676,
and she has spared no pains in copying old
records. The last ten years have been de-
voted to unearthing everything of ancient
events that could interest the decendants of 
this noble old county.  The second volume
is in an advanced state, and her friends pre-
dict that the complete work from her bril-
liant pen, will be one of the most marked
historical works that have ever been pro-
duced by a woman.


PECULIARITIES OF HUMAN NATURE.

	The scriptures say that God made man af-
ter his own likeness, but through lapse of
time and change of circumstances a great
variety is the apparent result. I'll mention
a few of the most striking features in this 
great change. There is the Negro race, and
another prominent feature is the giant and
the dwarf, and in fine, each individual is
unlike another, and as we view in the whole
human race this endless variety we are led
to conjecture, whether the inner man is as
varied as the outer man. By research and
and the aid of science, we are supported to
form a correct conclusion; and the inference
we draw is that the outer man is the symbol
or type of the inner. And in the organiza-
tion of men we see great extremes, which
often amounts to deformity. To speak in a
vague manner, some are all mouth and some
all tongue. These two features, particularly
the latter, I would shun and flee from as
from a scorpion. Then there is the egotist
who thinks that no one can tire of him; the
bump of self esteem make his head quite
top heavy. And then again there is the
bully, I don't know any other name to call
him by, whose bumps of combativeness and
destructiveness are so great that if he is
neighbor to you and you do not want to
live in hot water, you had better turn the
key of your gate, or sell out, unless you can
gratify him by meeting him on some promi-


nent grounds of his organization, if he has
large alimentiveness, invite him to a good
supper, and never ask a favor of him on an
empty stomach.  If it is approbativeness and
philoprogenitiveness, praise his children.
Perhaps by this course you can smother the
sleeping lion; but if you do not find yourself
successful, make a little study of phrenology
and physiognomy, which are great indexes
to the humah mind.
	Our Relief Society Sisters, in their ad-
ministration to the wants of the poor, and
caring for the sick, often come in contact
with the good, who from some unforseen
circumstances have been left, crippled in
their powers. To such it is a comfort to ad-
minister relief, and they feel blessed, as the
giver as well as the receiver. And
so we might go on, bringing to notice the
different traits of character possessed by in
dividuals, until we should weary of the sub-
ject, while yet not half the peculiarities of
human nature had been touched upon.  But
as Latter-day Saints, knowing as we do that
we must learn to see and act alike in all
matters of importance, before we can be en-
tirely owned and blessed of God our Father;
and having access to the great, eternal
fountain of wisdom and truth, it is for us
to mature and improve every correct and
noble sentiment and impulse of our natures,
and to root out, overcome and thrust aside
all that is unpleasant, unprofitable and un-
true.						I'LL TRY.


"GOOD MORNING."

	Dont forget to say "good morning!" Say
it to your parents, your brothers and sis-
ters, your schoolmates, your teachers, and 
say it cheerfully and with a smile; it will do
you good. There's a kind of inspiration in
every "good morning," heartily and smil-
ingly spoken, that helps to make hope fresh-
er and work lighter. It seems really to
make the morning good, and to be a 
prophecy of a good day to come after it.
And if this be true of the "good morning,"
it is so also of all kind, heartsome greetings;
they cheer the discouraged, rest the tired 
one, and somehow make the wheels of life
run more smoothly. Be liberal with them,
then, and let no morning pass, however dark
and gloomy it may be, that you do not at
least help to brighten by your smiles and
cheerful words.


CORRECT SPEAKING

	We advise all young people to acquire the
habit of correct speaking and writing, and
to abandon as early as possible any use of
slang words or phrases.  The longer you
live, the more difficult the acquirement of
correct language will be; and if the golden
age of youth, the proper season for the ac-
quisition of language, be passed in abuse,
the unfortunate victim, if neglected, is very
properly doomed to talk slang for life.  Money
is unnecessary to procure this education.
Every man has it in his power.  He has
merely to use the language which he reads,
instead of the slang which he hears; to form
his taste from the best speakers and poets
in the country; to treasure up choice phrases
in his memory and habituate himself to
their use, avoiding at the same time that
pedantic precision and bombast which shows
the weakness of vain ambition, rather than
the polish of an educated man.


THE Washington correspondent of the
Chicago Times writes that "the grade of
correspondence from the National Capital


promises to improve materially.  All of the
large newspapers of the country are recog-
nizing the necessity of having able, impar-
tial letter-writers there, while the attention
given to the selecting and forwarding of
immediate telegraphic news, increases every
year. No paper of any pretentions to in-
fluence is now without its telegraphic cor-
respondent at Washington, and all the lead-
ing journals make special arrangements for
continuous letter-writing during the session,
and occasional epistolatory work during va-
cation."


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			       OF
	CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
  			     AND
	    GENERAL DRY GOODS. 
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
		Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store.
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume.
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$ 18 00
15 copies; 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-	   26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-	   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-  48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1875	No. 21﻿


WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I will try to express my feelings through
our paper—as I think I can give much bet-
ter expression to them here, than I can
when I stand up and attempt to address my
sisters in a meeting.
	I feel well in the work which has been
established in these latter days, and my
constant desire is, to exert every faculty I
possess, and all the powers of mind and
heart bestowed upon me, in assisting to
bring about those great events, which must
transpire in this our day and generation. I 
wish to study myself, and live every day a
true life. I know I am weak and liable to
be overcome, to err and swerve from the
path of duty. But afterwards I feel sorrow-
ful, conscious that I did not control myself,
and that I have grieved those around me,
and that it was displeasing in the sight of
my Heavenly Father. But I pray God to
help me and to bless me, and all of us, with
his Holy Spirit, that we may be guided into 
a proper channel of thought and feeling—
that we may overcome every evil propensi-
ty and tendency of our natures. That we
may reform and purify ourselves, that all
our actions may be pleasing in the sight of
God, that He will be willing to acknowledge
us as His children. I know if we will pray
to him earnestly for His aid and assistance,
He will bless and help us to understand His
will concerning us, and preserve us from the
many evils incident to mortality. And if
we live thus near to him, we shall be able
to discern His hand and kind providences,
in all the circumstances of our lives.
	Smithfield, Cache Co.		S. M.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Feeling a great interest in the cause
which you have with such earnestness es-
poused, I would ask permission for a small
insertion in your paper. I know my ina-
bility to write anything that would be par-
ticularly interesting to your readers. Yet
it is well for us as sisters, to exchange ideas
and sentiments, and thus cultivate our
minds and enlarge our abilities. With this
view, I venture, for the first time, to risk a
sentence from my pen to be presented for
public criticism. I have a testimony to
bear concerning the goodness of God to His
Saints. In looking about me, I often mar-
vel at His wonderous kindness in blessing
us so abundantly. How great is the mercy
He manifests in bearing with us, with all
our follies and inconsistencies! How long
we have been taught, counselled and ex-
horted to follow the perfect ways of Christ;
yet how slow we are to learn, to understand
and to execute!
	Now, a thought comes to me. A few
moments ago, I was considering within my-
self, that truly, nothing could serve to make
us more charitable in our criticims of other
writers, than to endeavor, ourselves, to
write. And here I see that, as "God was
as we are, but has become an exalted being,"
He comprehends most perfectly all the diffi-
culties which we must encounter in our
journey through life. Hence His great
wisdom in directing our course, His long
suffering and boundless mercies in sustain-
[Column 2]
ing us, even with all our short-comings, and
His unspeakable joy over us when we tri-
umph over wrong.				J. E. M.
	Hyde Park, Cache Co.

MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:
	As I have a few leisure moments I thought
I would address a few lines to the EXPO-
NENT.
	I am away from home have  been absent
over two weeks; the longest time I was
ever away from my family. But leaving
them in the hands of God, I came here to
take care of a dear and only sister, severely
afflicted with brain fever. The disease
caused her right mind to leave her. Being
deeply affected, I prayed earnestly to my
Heavenly Father for wisdom; and was im-
pressed to call in the faithful sisters and
wash and anoint her in the name of Jesus,
and administer to her, which I did. And
with the faith and works of her kind friends
I am thankful to say she is recovering. We
give the honor to our Father in Heaven
	On my journey to this place I was per-
fectly enchanted with the beautiful moun-
tain scenery. I found the lofty cliffs of
rocks covered here and there with differ-
ent shades of moss; the hillsides with clus-
ters of trees and evergreens; the raging
stream pursuing its course unmolested; the
iron horse majestically winding its way
down the kanyon, and the day being pleas-
ant added much to the enjoyment of the
scene.
	After emerging from the kanyon, travel-
ing in a southern direction, passing farms
and villages, I came in sight of Porterville
situated in a beautiful little valley entirely
surrounded with hills and mountains; divi-
ded into two districts, one numbering
twenty-seven, and the other seventeen
families.
	They have a Relief Society, a Sunday
School and two day schools. Meetings are
held regularly. Saturday evening meet-
ings are occupied by the young and it is
truly gratifying to see them interested in
taking part in the Kingdom of God; in-
forming their minds so that they are ena-
bled to quote from the Bible and Book of
Mormon, with much freedom.
	No drinking or swearing; but the spirit of 
peace and union prevails I can truly say.
In the district I visited they have organ-
ized a branch of the United Order and de-
termined to adopt principles as fast as possi-
ble.
	I feel thankful that I have the privilege
of meeting with my sisters and partaking
of the good spirit which prevails in their
meetings. There is much to learn and by
meeting together and exchanging ideas
with each other, our minds will be enlight-
ened and our understandings strengthened
which will cause them to be more fruit-
ful.
	I love to read the minutes of the society
meetings, especially of those held in the
14th Ward, S. L. City.
							M. S. C.
	Porterville Morgan Co. U. T.
				Feb. 14th, 1874


NOTICE. 
TO THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF EACH
	BRANCH OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN SALT
	LAKE CITY, AND TO OUR BROTHERS AND
	SISTERS GENERALLY, WHO FAVOR THE
	UNITED ORDER:

	We solicit your united influence in sus-
taining home straw manufacture. Our ob-
ject in this is to assist in establishing home
industries in accordance with the require-
ments of the Priesthood; to contribute our
mite to the great enterprise of our becoming
a self-sustaining people. We want the sig-
nature of those who feel willing to sustain
this movement by purchasing our hats,
which, if we can get sufficient encourage- 
ment, we shall make for men and boys, wo-
men and girls at prices averaging from about
fifty cents—which will be suitable for men’s
every day wear in the field—to one dollar
and seventy-five cents for fine wear.
	We hope to supply this city in this de-
partment. 
	E.R. Snow,				E.S. BARNEY,
	BATHSHEBA SMITH,		A RUMELL,
	RACHEL GRANT,		E. RUMELL,
P. S.—If any of the sisters have braid on
hand, we wish to purchase. Second house
west of St. Mark's church, 13th Ward.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	AT VENICE in Italy there is now a wo-
man's paper published, called the "La Donna."
Woman's education is scarcely begun there,
yet we find a frail, delicate, young lady of
twenty-three years, editing a paper, for the
improvement of her sex. Risen from the
people and self-educated, she has alone un-
dertaken something enormous in Italy.
She has met with success, and her paper is
widely circulated all over Italy—and she
also has lady contributors, active in promo-
ting the growth of her idea. Her great
wish is to establish an Industrial school for
young women, who are poor and will not la-
bor, and are therefore driven to degrada-
tion; an aversion to work seems inherent in
the character of Italian girls.

	A LADY writing to the "Woman's Jour-
nal" asks what the women of America are
doing that they may be heard in the cele-
bration of the "centennial." She says, not
knowing that anything has been proposed
by them, she would suggest that a Peace
Congress of the women of all nations be
convened at Philadelphia in 1876.

	ON THE arrival of the train from Rich-
mond, Va., at Alexandria, Friday morning,
it was discovered that ex-Senator Nye who
when last seen occupied a section in the
sleeping car, was missing, although his coat,
vest, watch, hat and boots, were still in his
berth. He was on his way north from Jackson-
ville, Florida, with his daughter, Mrs. Wal-
ler of New York, and servants, and retired
the previous evening in his usual health.
It was supposed he got up in the night in a
dazed condition and walked off or fell off
the cars while in motion. He was after-
wards found in the streets of Richmond,
Va., in nearly a nude condition.—Tran-
script.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			OLD LETTERS.
Those letters! faded, worn and pale,
	  But yet how dear, how cherished still,
For in their folds, full many a tale
	  Of by-gone years, their pages fill,
Which bring to life, as once again
	  We read them o'er, mem'ry's dull pain.
They bring back youth, its love, its hope,
	  The visions of the shadowy past,
And as we trace life's widened scope
	  And backward glances hurrying cast,
We gather to our hearts as then,
	  The treasures that to us remain.
In living characters enshrined,
	  Feelings and thoughts are here portrayed,
Which speak the impress of the mind,
	  By friendship, or affection swayed,
True intuition of the time,
	  When we, and they, were in our prime.
We live again in fancy's maze,
	  Our vanished life, its sorrow, joy,
We scan it o'er with wiser phase
	  And all our faculties employ, 
Recalling friends and scenes of yore,
	  Garnered away in mem'ry's store.
Ah! heeded we the mute appeal,
	  Or thought of sympathy a need,
'Tis well! when anguish we may feel,
	  In vain ourselves, we shall not plead
For that true friendship which bestows,
	  An earnest care for other's woes.
Preserve these sacred treasures then,
	  A living flame of trust and truth,
In after years they bring again,
	  The rgace and sweetness of our youth;
Such messengers, no more to me,
	  Come freighted o'er so tenderly.
Ah! while we linger o'er each word,
	  To shapes of symmetry they're grown;
In fancy are those voices heard,
	  Each by a subtle influence known;
And now as then, the hours beguile,
	  With silent music, as erstwhile.
March 9, 1875. 
								B. B.
							E. D. Wells.


HUMANIT IN WAR.

	It is related of Henry IV, the first French
King of the house of Bourbon, that while
besieging Paris, at that time held against
him by the Catholic League, he was urgent-
ly advised to take the city by assault before
the troops daily expected from the King of
Spain could arrive to succor the leaguers.
He knew that by a determined assault he
could carry the works before him, but he
protested against it on the principal of hu-
manity.
	"I will not," said he; "expose the capital
of my country to the miseries and horrors
which must follow such an event. I will
show to my people that I am their father;
and I will follow the example of the true
mother who presented herself before Solo-
mon. I will not gain the prize through the
slaughter of innocent persons."
	In time Henry reduced the city with the
loss of but few lives. In a subsequent con-
versation upon the subject of the number
slain, he exclaimed, "If it were in my pow-
er, I would give anything but my kingly
honor to redeem those citizens, and to have
the satisfaction of informing posterity that
I had subdued Paris without spilling a drop
of blood."
	We have another instance of humanity in
the war of 1796 between France and Austria.
It is related of the Archduke Charles that
when hastening from Bohemia to take com-
mand of the Austrian army, he met, near
the scene of a late action, a large number of
wounded soldiers, both French and Austrian,
who, in the haste of retreat and pursuit, had
been abandoned where they had fallen. The
only horses at hand which could possibly be
used in removing these helpless sufferers
were attached to the artillery.


"Let the cannon be left behind," said the
human prince, "and let these poor fellows
be saved." And when one of his generals
remonstrated, he added, "No, no; let it be
as I have ordered. The life of one brave
man is better worth preserving than fifty
pieces of ordnance."
	When the French general, Moreau, into
whose hands the cannon thus abandoned
had fallen, learned the motive which had
prompted the Archduke to make the sacri-
fice, he ordered the whole to be restored,
observing that he should be unworthy of be-
ing the opponent of his imperial highness
if he took advantage of so noble an act of
humanity.


[Column 1]
			WRITING LETTERS.

	FROM THE HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

	"The art of writing is one of the
greatest blessings we enjoy. To cultivate
it is our duty, and to use it is our privilege.
By these means the thoughts of the heart
can act without the body, and the mind can
speak without the head, while thousands of
mile apart, and for ages after the flesh has
mouldered back to its mother dust. Beloved
reader, have you ever reflected on this sim-
ple, this useful, this heavenly blessing? It
is one of the best gifts of God to man, and
it is the privilege of man to enjoy it. By
writing, the word of the Lord has been
handed to the inhabitants of the earth, from
generation to generation. By writing, the
inventions and knowledge of men have been
received, age after age, for the benefit of
the world. By writing, the transactions of
life, like the skies over the ocean, are spread
out upon the current of time, for the eyes of
the rising multitudes to look upon. And
while we are thus summing up some of the
blessings and enjoyments which result from
this noble art, let us not forget to view a few
of the curses and mischiefs which follow an
abuse of this high privilege. While we be-
hold what a great matter a little fire kindles,
let us not stand mute. Let us not forget to
set a better example, when we see the
slanderer dip his raven's quill in gall, to
blot the fair fame of some innocent per-
son. Let us weep, for so will the heaven's
do, when the great men of the earth write
their glory in the tears of the fatherless
and the widow. Let us mourn while this
world's vanity is written for deception, in
letters of gold. But enough, for the wick-
ed are writing their own death warrant, and
the hail of the Lord shall sweep away the
refuge of lies. We, as the disciples of the
blessed Jesus, are bound by every consider-
ation that makes religion a blessing to the
inhabitants of the earth, while we see this
exalted privilege abused, to set a more no-
ble example. To do our business in a more
sacred way, and, as servants of the Lord,
that would be approved in all things, hide
no fault of our own, nor cover any imper-
fection in others; neither offend, lest we
bring a reproach upon the great cause of
our holy Father.
	"It is pleasing to God to see men use
the blessings which He gave them, and not
abuse them. For this reason, if the Saints
abide in the faith wherewith they have
been called, the earth shall yield her in-
crease, and the blessings of heaven shall at-
tend them, and the Lord will turn to them
a pure language, and the glory of God will
again be among the righteous on earth. All
things are for men, not men for all things.
Beloved brethren, before we can teach the
world how to do right, we must be able to
do so ourselves. Therefore, in the love of

[Column 2]
Him who is altogether lovely, whose yoke
is easy and whose burden is light, who
spake as man never spake, let us offer a few
ideas on this subject, for the consideration
of such as mean to love their neighbors as
themselves, for the sake of righteousness
and eternal life.
	"1. Never write a letter to a friend or foe,
unless you have business which cannot be
done as well in some other way; or, unless
you have news to communicate, that is
worth time or money. In this way you
will increase confidence, and save postage.
	"2. Never write any thing to a friend or
foe, that you are afraid to read to a friend or
foe, for letters from a distance, especially
one or two thousand miles, are sought for
with great anxiety; and, as no one is a
judge of men and things, you are liable to
misrepresent yourself, your country, your
friends, and your enemies, and put in the
mouth of the honest, as well as the dishon-
est, a lie, which truth, in her gradual but
virtuous way, may not contradict till your
head is under the silent clods of the val-
ley.
	"3. Never write anything but truth, for
truth is heavenly, and like the sun is al-
ways bright, and proves itself without log-
ic, without reasons, without witnesses, and
never fails. Truth is of the Lord and will
prevail.
	"4. Never reprove a friend or foe for
faults in a letter, except by revelation; for in
the first place, your private intentions, be
they ever so good, are liable to become pub-
lic, because all letters may be broken open,
and your opinion only on one side of the
question can be scattered to the four winds;
and he to whom you meant good, receives
evil; and you are not benefited. Again,
we can hardly find language, written or
spoken on earth, at this time, that will con-
vey the true meaning of the heart to the
understanding of another; and you are lia-
ble to be misunderstood, and to give un-
pleasant feelings; and you merely, to use a
simile, bleed an old sore, by probing it for
proud flesh, when it only wanted a little oil
from the hand of the good Samaritan, in
person, to heal it. No matter how pure
your intentions may be; no matter how high
your standing is, you cannot touch man's
heart when absent as when present. Truly,
you do not cast your pearls before swine,
but you throw your gold before man, and
he robs you for your folly. Instead of re-
proof give good advice; and when face to,
face rebuke a wise man, and he will love
you; or do so to your friend, that, should
he become your enemy, he cannot reproach
you: thus you may live, not only unspotted,
but unsuspected.
	"5. Never write what you would be
ashamed to have printed; or what might of-
fend the chastest ear, or hurt the softest
heart. If you write what you are ashamed
to have printed, you are partial: if you
write what would offend virtue, you have
not the Spirit of the Lord; and if you write
what would wound the weak-hearted; you
are not feeding the Lord's lambs, and thus
you may know that you are not doing to
others what you would expect others to do
to you. The only rule we would give to
regulate writing letters it this:—Write what
you are willing should be published in this
world, and in the world to come. And would
to God, that not only the disciples of Christ,
but the whole world, were willing to follow
this rule. Then the commandments would
be kept, and no one would write a word
against the Lord his God. No one would write
a word against his father or mother. No one
would write a word against his neighbor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


No one would write a word against the crea-
tures of God. No one would need write a
word against any thing but sin; and then
the world would be worth living in, for
there would be none to offend."


[Column 1]
	GIRLS AND BOYS AT SCHOOL.

	Some years ago we had supervision of a 
school for young men and women. The
desks were what is called double, each one
accomodating two persons.  We placed a 
young man and a young woman at each.
Permission was given the pupils to render
such assistance to their desk-mates as they
thought profitable, keeping the noise with-
in bounds.  But we did not often check the 
hum and buzz; for as these young people
were being trained for life, and as in actual
life there is a hundred times as much noise
as silence, we should have hardly felt at liber-
ty to train their faculties in silence for use in
noise. We only said don't be too noisy.
But this is incidental.  What we wished to
bring before you is the striking influence of
this system upon the love passion.
	When Thomas and Lucy first sat down to-
gether, they looked and acted just as a 
young man and a young woman are likely
to do when they first meet.  We need not
describe it.  You have seen how they look
and act.  This soon began to wear off, and
in a month the young people acted toward
each other like brother and sister.  All that
peculiar expression and manner which you
often see among lovers, and which you re-
cognize at a distance of three blocks, soon
disappeared.  With the new arrangement
in our school there was more or less of this
all through the room; but, as already stated,
it soon gave place to a social atmosphere
which seemed identical with that of a home
among brothers and sisters.  Still farther,
they were permitted to exchange partners
at pleasure on the first Monday of each
month.  This renewed the lovers' exhibi-
tion a little at first, but after three months
even this change of companions evoked no
visible disturbances of the school work.
But what good came of it?  It is just that
question we wish to answer.
	From the day this system was introduced
the school required no government.  It was
like a company of ladies and gentlemen in
a drawing-room.  There was no necessity
for rules in the one case more than in the
other. The average progress in our studies
was strikingly enhanced. Stupid, coarse
fellows, who in company of men alone would
chew, and growl, and loaf, became bright,
gentlemanly and studious; and girls of light,
frivolous composition became earnest.  The
average progress was greatly increased.  The 
young men came to regard women not as
charming creatures to be toyed with and to
be talked down to, but as brave, hard work-
ing companions, competitors and equals.
They ceased to think of their bodies, and
thought only of the quality of their minds.
The young women no longer looked up to
the young men as chivalrous heroes, seek-
ing opportunity to die for their lady-love,
but as fair, honest, honorable companions,
whom it was a pleasure to know, and some-
times to conquer.  In a single year they
came to occupy the same attitude towards
men with those girls who have been reared
in a large family of boys, and who are really
long in the choice of husbands.  The girls
who are educated in a separate school are
like the only child, who is almost sure, if
she has been brought up in seclusion, to fall
into some trap. The young men, after a
year in such a school companionship, are like

[Column 2]
the young man with half-a-dozen sisters,
who is sure to be wise in the selection of a 
wife.
	In its bearing upon the most important
interests of our earthly life, there is no part
of our education so vital as an early, large,
intimate acquaintance with many persons of 
the opposite sex.  What probability is there
that a young woman, an only child, brought
up in seclusion, educated in a convent or
other separate school and who then, having
finished her education, sets up at home un-
der the watchful eye of her mother for a 
husband—what probability is there that she
will be wise in her relations with men? With
no occupation save that of catching a beau,
with imagination and emotions left to wan-
der, is she likely to see through the sham
smiles and vows of an imposter.
	[It was unfortunate, in view of the ex-
periments being tried, that Dr. Lewis' school
should have been destroyed by fire ere the
fruits of his system could have been more
plainly seen.  But this was not the first nor
only experiment of the kind.  Ever since
boys and girls were born in the same family
they have grown up, and, to a great extent,
necessarily have been educated and asso-
ciated together, save when separated, as in
nunneries and certain schools.  We can see
no good reason why they should ever be
separated. Neither minds nor morals are 
improved thereby.]—Phrenological Journal.


A WOMAN NATURALIST.

	Mrs. Maxwell, a resident of Boulder, Col-
orado, is a very remarkable woman, for by
her own personal efforts she has collected
specimens of natural—history, mineralogy,
and curiosities that would do credit to any
learned professor.  She has a great variety
of animals and birds, most of which she has
shot and afterwards skinned and stuffed. All
the animals of the Rocky Mountains, black
and grizzly bears, lynxes, mountain lions,
antelope, deer, elk, Rocky Mountain sheep,
prairie dogs, squirrels, rabbits, beavers; all
sorts of birds, large and small, perched upon
trees, and all arranged with great taste and
picturesque effect. Her mineralogical speci-
mens are very fine and she has a rare col-
lection of foreign curiosities; a miniature
pagoda from China, Japanese armor, human
tooth necklace from the cannibal islands, seal
skin shoes, and gloves from the far North,
Icelandic weapons, and a thousand things
one would like to study for hours. She has
also an immense rattlesnake with its young,
hideous enough in its glass case, and con-
stantly wriggling its horrible body. I con-
sider this lady collector a marvel; without
any especial training or education she has
gradually taken up this line of business, and
has made it a complete success. Her mod-
esty equals her industry and skill, and her
museum deserves a place in a large city.—
Ex.


THE TEN COMMANDMENTS.

	The Rev. Dr. R. W. Dale, and English
preacher of some note, has recently printed
a series of discourses on the ten command-
ments, which have excited considerable at-
tention from the London press. Discourses
on the commandments very commonly are
full of strained application, while the preach-
er attempts to make his text appropriate to
modern circumstances, but there is nothing
of the kind here.
		"THOU SHALT NOT STEAL."
	Here is an application for the eighth com-
mandment:


﻿“ If a workman, who is paid to work ten
hours, takes advantage of the absence of the
master, or foreman, to smoke a pipe and
read a newspaper for one hour out of ten, he
steals one-tenth of his day's wages. He
does the very thing that a shopkeeper would
do who gave him fourteen ounces of butter
or sugar instead of a pound, or nine yards
of calico when the bill charged ten. An as-
sistant in a shop who, instead of caring for
his master's interests as if they were his
own, puts no heart into his work, exercises
no ingenuity, treats customers carelessly in-
stead of courteously, and so diminishes the
chances of their coming again, gets his sal-
ary on false pretences, does not give the
kind of service which he knows his employ-
er expects, and which he would expect if
he were an employer himself. He cannot
but know that his services are worth but
half what they would be if he did his best.
Instead of earning the £40 a year for which
he is engaged, he does not earn more than £15
or £20, and he practically steals the rest." 
	A man who knows how to drive home
blows like that, and is not afraid to do it, is
to be a power in the community.


For the EXPONENT.
		RETRENCHMENT.

	Retrenchment is a subject upon which so
much might be said, that I feel it quite a 
task to write, or speak upon it; but as Lat-
ter-day Saints we should never allow our-
selves to say we cannot do what is required
of us.
	I think Retrenchment as we understand
it is one of the greatest and most glorious
principles there is, and will do us as much
good if carried out rightly, as any principle
we  embraced.  It includes not only
dress, but everything that will make us
wise, useful and happy while in this life.
Through it, we are taught to live our reli-
gion, to find out the will of God concerning
us, to bring ourselves into subjection to His
will, and to do what He requires of us; at-
tend to our prayers, our meetings, our sev-
eral duties at home and elsewhere.
	It is surprising to see the young ladies
get up and bear their testimony to the things
of God, since the organization of these so-
cieties. And I believe if we continue as
we have begun, it will be beyond our com-
prehension to realize the good we may ac-
complish.  Great responsibilities rest upon
us both old and young, as daughters of Zion,
and I feel that Retrenchment is the very
thing needed.
				GEORGINA CUTHBERT.
	1st Ward, S, L. City, March 16, 1875.


﻿A NEW point in American meteorology is
sought to be established by Mr.  L. Blodget,
in a paper contained in the published pro-
ceedings of the American Philosophical So-
ciety. He states facts going to show that
the greater number of winds which prevail
in the United States in cold weather are
winds that descend, and that they derive
their continued force from this descent. It
has been observed that the extremes of cold
arc often not propagated along the surface
of the country, but seem to originate where
they occur, as though having fallen from the
atmosphere above. This is particularly the
case in the northwest. Mr. Blodget explains
such descents of heavy cold air by the sup-
position that the volume of air in the given
locality being contracted by the fall of rain
or snow leaves a vaccum which is thus filled
up, the descending wind bringing a lower
temperature with it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L.GREENE RICHARDS, Editor
	CORNELIA M. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1875


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			LOCAL.
	New postmasters have been appointed at
Kaysville, Davis County, Beaver city, Bea-
ver county and Gunnison Sanpete county
......Several heavy snowslides occurred, in
Little Cottonwood kanyon on Saturday and
Sunday the 20th and 21st ult. but fortu-
nately, so far as known, no lives were lost
in consequence......Governor Axtell lectured
to an animated audience in this city, on the
evening of the 21st ult.  His subject was
the "Iron Bedstead," which he handled in
a highly interesting manner......The Lin-
gards have just filled a successful engage-
ment at the Theatre......Thomas Ricks, who
was lately on trial in the third district court
for alleged murder, has been honorably ac-
quitted.
			LITERARY.
	W. G. Willis has dramatized Kingsley's 
Hypatia......A five-act drama for the French
Theatre in Berlin is to be written by Alex-
andre Dumas......Walter Scott's Guy Man-
nering has been published by the Peterson
Brothers, New York......Professor John
Morgan of Oberlin, has three accomplished
daughters, who are engaged in a family
school at Munich, Bavaria, where they in-
struct young ladies in art, language and gen-
eral culture......Miss Closson, a young lady
who has spent six years in Western Turkey,
is giving lectures in the East, in which she
is said to offer very interesting accounts of
the Turkish people.
			PERSONAL
	The widow of Captain Hall, the arctic ex-
plorer, is living in Cincinnati, and is said to
be in want......Vice President Wilson is
taking a tour through the Southern States
......Bayard Taylor will soon commence a
course of lectures at Cornell University, in
which he will give descriptive sketches of
the lives of Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Heine,
and their fellow authors in Germany since
1750......Lieut. Commander Bowman H.
McCalla, of the Navy was recently married
to Lillie, daughter of Gen. Horace Binney
Sargent.
			FOREIGN.
	A gale on the Irish and British coasts
was lately the occasion of great damage to
shipping and the loss of several lives......
The Emperor of Austria and King Victor
Emanuel will meet at Venice some time
this month......Lola, a Spanish steamer has
been seized for smuggling and sold at Vera
Cruz......A shock of earthquake was re-
cently felt at Minatitlan and Orazava, Mexi-
co......The Emperor of Austria is reported
to have accepted the resignation of Baron
Sanborn, Minister-at-Washington.
			POLITICAL.
The Republican party in New Hampshire,
was victorious at a recent election......The 
Earlville (Ill.) "Transcript," says the Legis-
lature has been a down right disgrace to
that State. Judging from accounts, the
same might truthfully be said of the Leg-
islature of several other States......Johnson
and Booth, United States Senators, emphat-
ically refuse to go into caucus with either
party......The Pacific Railroad bill, though
much was done to secure its passage, met
with defeat in the House of Representa-
tives......The extra session of the Senate
expired March 24th.
			GENERAL.
	The first child born of Japanese parents in
this country is a daughter to the  wife of
the Japanese Minister at Washington......

[Column 2]
The Court House at Kingston, Ont., was
burned on the 24th ult., loss $100,000......A
terrible tornado recently occurred in Geor-
gia, doing great damage and causing consid-
erable loss of life......Great dearth of water
is reported at Lancaster, Pennsylvania......A
member of the Illinois Legislature wants a
bill passed to make it a penal offence for one
person to treat another to any intoxicating
drink.


A BRIGHT-EYED boy of four years was
saying his prayers the other night to his
mother, and with his hands folded and eyes
closed, he sweetly said:
	"Now I lay me down to sleep,
	I pray the Lord my soul to keep:
	If I should die before I wake,
	I pray the Lord my soul to take.
	God bless papa, mamma and—"
	He stopped all at once, opened his eyes
and exclaimed:
	"Mother, mother, what shall I say if I
have been a bad boy?"
	"You should not stop to ask questions, my
son, while you are saying your prayers," re-
plied his mother.
	"But, mother, I have been bad; what
shall I say?"
	"Ask God to forgive you; but you should
say your prayers all through when you be-
gin without stopping."
	His question answered, he reverently
folded his hands, and closing his eyes, con-
tinued: 
	"And will God forgive me for killing a 
hop toad with a big stick, and throwing it
down a big hole? Amen!"
	Children of a larger growth will do well
to copy.


[Column 1]
		TALK NUMBER ONE.
	TO EVERY BRANCH OF THE RELIEF
	MY BELOVED SISTERS:—God has called us to
an important amd highly responsible position;
and, let me ask, for what purpose? Is it not
that we may efficiently assist in the establish-
ing and building up of His kingdom?
	The kingdom of God can never be built up
until it has been established, and it will never
be firmly established until it is self-sustaining.
Pres. Young, and, in connexion with him, a
portion of the Priesthood, have been, for years,
laboring in this direction. He has led out, and
set the example, in nearly, if not every depart-
ment of home-industry, now in successful oper-
ation in Zion. It is true, much has been ac-
complished; and yet, how very much remains
to be done before we shall become independent?
How much before we shall cease to be a promi-
nent source of profit to our enemies? How
much, before, instead of constant heavy out-
[Column 2]
lays, we shall realize not only what we shall
require for home supplies, but an income from
each department of industry, with which to
aid in building temples, gathering the poor,
and in beautifying Zion.
	Another important question—what has wo-
man to do in bringing about these grand re-
sults?
	The exaltation of the human family could
not be effected without the aid of woman. Her
assistance is needed in every department of the
great work of salvation, for the living and the
dead. In those departments where her pres-
ence and her labors are not required, her influ-
euce, through her faith and prayers, and her
words of encouragement may be productive of
many good results. There is nothing that ap-
pertains to the welfare of Zion, in which the
interests of man and of woman are not equal,
and in which their efforts should not be mu-
tual.
	My Sisters, when we received the fulness of
the Everlasting Gospel, and went into the wa-
ters of baptism, we became, symbolically at
least, dead to the world, having "put on
Christ." We obeyed the call "Come out of her
(Babylon), my people, that ye partake not of
her sins, and receive not of her plagues"—
gathered to the places appointed—for what pur-
pose? Not to build ourselves up after the man-
ner of the Gentiles, by assimilating ouirselves
into their likeness, but we gathered that we
might become "a peculiar people—zealous of
good works," and build up the Zion of God,
and His kingdom, the government of which
will give protection to the honest in heart from
good of all creeds, when the "overflowing
scourge shall sweep the earth as with the be-
som of destruction."
	I humbly call on my sisters to reflect, and to
reflect seriously. There must be a stop to our
waste of energies, and waste of substance by
useless expenditures and, especially, on super-
fluities. Let us all unite our influence and our
labors, to check the ebbing tide of temporal
prosperity: and to those who are asleep, and
apparently indifferent to the interests of Zion,
I almost feel to apply the words of an ancient
prophet, "Woe to the women that are at ease
in Zion." Let us assist with all the energies of
our souls, in breaking the chains with which
we, as a people, are bound; for just as long as
we are in debt to, or dependent on our enemies
for the necessaries and comorts of life, we are
virtually their slaves.
	We have no interests outside the kingdom
of God, and, as individuals, how much so ever
we may accumulate of this world's goods, we
are only prosperous in proportion as Zion pros-
pers.
	After having said so much, I come to the
point, and make an appeal to my sisters of the
Relief Society, (which should include all virtu-
ous Latter-day Saint women) to call your men-
tal and physical powers into action and lead
out in establishing Home Industries. This is
an important mission which now devolves on
us. Ask wisdom of God—counsel together and
deliberately decide what branch or branches of
businesses will be most likely to succeed in your
particular Ward or Settlement, and promptly
adopt measures for its promotion.
	Pres. Young recommends silk culture as one
very profitable branch for the sisters, and offers,
free of charge, all the cuttings they wish, from
the Mulberry orchard on his farm, south of the
city; with this requisition: that they shall be
cut by a man who understands the business.
They should be set as soon as the frost is out
of the ground, or before the leaves start. In
two years from setting, they will support the
worms.


If the Society cannot, "either for love or
money," obtain ground for the purpose, it
would be well for individuals to set cuttings
around their home lots, where they will serve
the double purpose of shade trees and of feed-
ing silkworms. I have just heard of a sister in
one of our Southern settlements, who has
manufactured from her own raised silk, several
choice articles, one of which is a beautiful net-
ted shawl one yard and a quarter in size, and
nearly embroidered.
	In Ogden, the Relief Society under the Presi-
dency of Sister J. S. Richards, has set an ex-
ample worthy of imitation, in the line of Straw
Manufacture. Forty young ladies and girls
have been trained, during the past winter, to
braid, and are now being taught in the other
branches, sewing, &c. An energetic move-
ment is being made in the same direction, in
this city, by which we intend furnishing straw-
work to supply the city. Also, one Society of
young ladies is starting the business of knit-
ting woolen yarn into ladies' sacques, jackets,
shawls, baby-shoes, mits, &c. &c. We have a
competent teacher—One who followed this
branch of industry in England. Even this,
although it may seem a small institution, will
greatly aid in our becoming self-sustaining, by
preventing an outlay of thousands of dollars,
annually sent abroad for these articles; and,
under wise management, will become a lucra-
tive business.
						ELIZA R. SNOW.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VENGEANCE IS THE LORD'S.
	The following incidents are here chronicled,
not as items of news, but as things worthy of
notice!
	Three weeks ago to-day, on the afternoon of
Thursday, March 11th, thousands of the in-
habitants of Utah, young and old of both sex-
es, were rendered justly indignant over the
case of President Brigham Young's being sen-
tenced to prison by Chief-Justice J. B. McKean.
His honor taking occasion to misconstrue a de-
lay on the part of President Young to comply
with an unjust and senseless order—which de-
lay was made to test the question of right of
appeal—as contempt of Court, sentenced him
to pay a fine of $25, and to be imprisoned for
twenty-four hours.
	Contempt of Court! Had it been for feelings
of contempt for the manner in which the Chief
Justice had conducted his public affairs, that 
this insult was offered, every man and woman
of good judgment and pure sentiments, who
has been acquainted with his official career in
this Territory, might as justly have been com-
mitted to fine and imprisonment.
	However, the sentence was passed. Presi-
dent Young was taken to the penitentiary, and
a whole people exasperated by the indignity
offered. 
	But whatever might have been felt, however
great the desire of many must have been to
take some action by way of avenging the out-
rage, nothing was done. There was nothing
that could be done—allowing wisdom to dic-
tate—by any individual in Utah.
	Upwards of a thousand women took the op-
portunity afforded for representing the respect
and reverence in which President Young is
held by this people, by signing a petition asking
for his release, which was presented to Gover-
nor Axtell. The Govenor was powerless to
act in the matter, but the prompt action taken
by the ladies was nevertheless commendable.
	In less than a week from the day on which
the Judge ordered President Young to prison,


he was himself removed from office.  Possibly
the two circumstances have no real connection,
as other incidents of McKean's unwise course
of procedure was reported at Washington pre-
vious to his removal, by lawyer Geo. E. Whit-
ney, with whom he had had hard words.
	But whatever the cause of his removal, it
brought the same satisfactory result. And in
it, to those who seek for understanding, an oft
told lesson is repeated.


GOOD VERSUS EVIL.

	All that which tends to good or to develop-
ing goodness is necessarily slow in its growth,
for it is up-hill work; and it requires toil and
care in the ascent. Caution is one of the ele-
ments essential to cultivate, to help us in
climbing.  All that which pertains to goodness
is truly elevating; therefore the more goodness
we possess the higher elevation of character we
attain. And all this is only accomplished
gradually because climbing is always slow. On
the contrary, evil is swift because its tendency
is downward; therefore the work is easy and
quickly accomplished.  No wonder those who
are engaged in it do so much in such short spa-
ces of time; their progress is nothing wonder-
ful, because it is all on a descending scale. And
often those who are on the up-hill-route slip
backward for want of a little caution. Or per-
haps get impatient, and want their work done
in a hurry, and thus they lose more in a very
short space of time than they have been able
to gain in days of real labor. I hope we are all
traveling upward in the scale of human pro-
gression, striving for advancement, for a per-
manent good to be attained. Of course it will
be all up-hill work and we must not tread too
lightly or carelessly, but plant our feet firmly,
and measure the ground carefully.  There are
sure to be thorns in our path, and every varie-
ty of hindrances and difficulties; and we shall
meet those who are journeying downward, who
will seek to discourage us, but we must not
heed them. Our path is upward, and all our
energies must be concentrated for good, which
reaches higher and higher until at last we
come into the presence of Him who is the
fountain-head of all intelligence, of all good-
ness.							B. B.
	March 17, 1875.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE been requested to announce that
on and after Friday, April 2nd, mulberry out-
tings can be obtained at Mrs. Zina H. Young's
residence, 13th Ward.  They will be prepared
for setting out, and will be placed in the ground
for preservation until called for. Of course the
earlier they are removed the safer and better
for them. The sisters who are desirous of pro-
curing a supply, are therefore requested to call
as early as possible.
	GOVERNOR AXTELL issued a proclamation,
March 22nd, assigning Associate-Justice Emer-
son to the Third Judicial district, the removal
of Chief-Justice McKean having left the bench
of this district vacant until the arrival of 
Chief-Justice Lowe.
	CAPTAIN SILVA, successor to Major Overton,
as receiver at the Land Office in this city, re-
cently arrived.
	THE FOURTH term of the 20th Ward Semina-
ry commenced Monday, March 22nd. Professor
Karl G. Maeser, Principal. The Professor has
been delivering lectures on highly interesting


subjects, in several of the different Wards late-
ly, which have drawn full houses and been par-
ticularly instructive and entertaining.
	ELDER ORSON Pratt preached to a crowded
congregation in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, March 21st. His subject was the
Priesthood.		
	THE GOOD work of grading is progressing on
South Temple Street, east of the State Road.
	THE POSITION of Penitentiary warden in this
city has been accepted by Mr. John Hunt, Mr.
A. G. Paddock having sometime since resigned.
	AMONG THE deaths of recent occurrence are
those of Sister Openshaw, who fell dead with-
out a moment's warning, in this city on the
24th ult.; and the well-known father Kay of
Kaysville, who quietly departed on the morn-
ing of the 25th. Both were in good standing in
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, of which they were old members.
	MR. J. H. Beatty has been appointed to the
office of register in bankruptcy for this judicial
district.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	REMEDY FOR CROUP.—When croup makes
its appearance, which may be known by a
ringing cough, wrap the child in warm
flannel and put its feet in warm water; then
rub the breast and bottoms of the feet and
palms of the hands with oil. If the child
breathes hard, or is struggling for breath,
take one heaping teaspoonful of pulverized
alum, with two or three of honey (molasses
or sugar will do), and a little warm water
to make it thin enough for a child to swal-
low readily. When the patient is very bad,
give one teaspoonful of the mixture every
ten minutes, until he vomits. This dose is
intended for a child two years old. The
child should also take a tablespoonful of
swcet oil. (Chicken oil will answer the pur-
pose if the former is not at hand.)
	The mixture of alum and honey cuts the
phlegm loose and causes it to be thrown up.
Watch the child closely. Keep it warm.
See that the bowels are free, and do not al-
low it to breathe any cold air until it is well.
For very young children, this dose should be
weakened.
	PNEUMONIA AND PLEURISY.—In case a
person is attacked by pneumonia or pleurisy,
the first thing done should be to bathe the
feet in a hot water-and-mustard bath, tak-
ing light gruel or flaxseed tea, and getting
into a warm bed. The perspiration thus
caused is excellent. Sage tea may also be
taken. A convenient and common remedy
for the difficult breathing, and one which
is, or ought to be, at hand in every well-or-
dered hoursehold, is sweet spirits of niter,
taken in doses of half a teaspoonful every
hour till the breathing is relieved.
	FOR DIPTHERIA.—Dr. Rovillout states
that lemon juice, used as a gargle, is an effi-
cacious specific against diptheria and simi-
lar throat troubles. He has successfully
employed it thus for over eighteen years.
	CURE FOR FROZEN FEET.— I have tried
almost everything that could be mentioned,
but found nothing equal to a mixture of
turpentine and camphor gum.—R. N. Y.


THE most touching case of filial devotion
that has recently come to our notice is that
of a Milford young man, aged twenty, who
abandoned the idea of raising a moustache
at the advice of his mother.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿


For the EXPONENT.
			SYMPATHY.

	Sympathy!—a holy feeling
		Sent us from the realms above;
	Soothing sorrow by revealing
		Fragments of a heaven-born love!

	Such a love as angels witness,
		Such a love as angels feel,
	Possessing by its holy fitness
		Power the wounds of grief to heal,

	When the heart is bow'd in sorrow,
		When the spirit's bent with grief,
	When we feel that NO TO-MORROW
		Has the power to bring relief;

	Then the sympathetic hand
		Sweetly pours the "oil and wine,"
	And I ever understand
		Such, to be a law divine

	Human nature—undiluted,
		Is  a deep pellucid stream,
	Full and flowing, unpolluted
		By the world's deceptive dream;

	Fully rich and glorious beauties,
		Beauties that are half divine,
	Fitting us for holy duties,
		Through the daily round of time.
						HANNAH T. KING.
SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 1875.


[Column 1]
		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

	Pumpkin pie without eggs may be made in this
way; select a pumpkin which has a deep, rich col-
or, and firm, close texture. Stew and sift in the or-
dinary manner, and add as much boiling milk as
will make it about one third thicker than for com-
mon pumpkin pie. Sweeten with equal quantities
of sugar and molasses, and bake about an hour in
a hot oven.
	Squash Pie.—This is even superior to pumpkin,
as is possesses a sweeter, richer flavor, and is far
preferable. It is made in precisely the same man-
ner as pumpkin pie.
	Sweet Potatoe Pie.—Boil and sift through a
colander, nice, ripe sweet potatoes, add boiling
milk, and make the same as pumpkin pie.
	Sweet Apple Pie.—Pare molton sweet apples,
 grate them upon a grater. A very large gra-
ter is necessary for this purpose. Then proceed as
for pumpkin pie.—"Eating for strength."
	Gray marble hearths can be rubbed with linseed
oil, and no spots will show.
	A solution of chloride of iron will remove nitrate
of silver stains from the hands.
	Butter will remove tar spots. Soap and water
will afterwards take out the grease stain.
	Kerosene and powdered lime, whiting, or wood
ashes will scour tins with the least labor.
	Shellac is the best sement for jet articles.
Smoking the joint renders it black to match.
	Unslackened lime is excellent for cleaning small
steel articles, such as jewelry, buckles, and the
like.
	To prevent moths in carpets, wash the floor be-
fore laying them with the spirits of turpentine or
benzine.
	Gold bronze for furniture is a mixture of copal
varnish mixed with gold-colored bronze powder.
The last is a bisulphate of tin.
	A teaspoonful of powdered borax dissolved in
a quart of tepid water is good for cleaning old
black dresses of silk, cashmere, or alpaca.
	Sprigs of wintergreen or ground ivy will drive
away red ants, branches of wormwood will serve
the same purpose for black ants.
	Straw matting should be washed with a cloth
dampened in salt water. Indian meal sprinkled
over it and thoroughly swept out will also cleanse
it finely.

[Column 2]
	Frosted glass, useful for screens, etc., is made
by laying the sheets horizontally and covering them
with a strong solution of sulphate of zinc. The
salt crystalizes on drying.
	Spots can be taken out of marble with finely
powdered pumicestone mixed with verjuice. Cov-
er the spots and allow the stuff to remain for
twelve hours; then rub clean, dry and rinse.
	Flaxseed and tallow are used in Germany as a
stuffing for cushions. One part of tallow to ten
parts of flaxseed are employed, the mobility of the
greased seed rendering the cushion very soft and
pliable.
	Two ounces of common tobacco boiled in a gal-
lon of water is used by the Chatham Street dealers
for renovating old clothes. The stuff is rubbed on
with a stiff brush. The goods are nicely cleaned,
and strange to add no tobacco smell remains. 
	An oaken color can be given to new pine floors
and tables by washing them in a solution of cop-
peras dissolved in strong lye; a pound of the for-
mer to a gallon of the latter. When dry, this
should be oiled; and it will look well for a year or
two; then renew the oiling.
	In washing windows, a narrow-shaped wooden
knife sharply pointed, will take out the dust that
hardens in the corners of the sash. Dry whiting
will polish the glass, which should first be washed
with weak black tea mixed with a little alcohol.
Save the tea leaves for the purpose.—R. N. Y.


R. S. REPORTS
MINUTES OF A MEETING, HELD BY THE
	YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIA-
	TION, OF THE 11TH WARD, AT THE RESI-
	DENCE OF MRS. MARY A. FREEZE, JAN.
	11TH, 1875.

	Meeting opened by singing, "Let Zion in
her beauty rise;" Prayer by Bro. Charles
Edwards; singing, "For the strength of the
hills we bless Thee;" minutes of the pre-
vious meeting were read and accepted. Es-
say by Counselor Miss Lelia Tuckett. Pres.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze read the 12th chapter
of Paul's Epistle to the Romans, and said: I
have invited Bro. Edwards to visit our
meeting and to see the spirit we possess here.
Many do not understand the object of our
association. It is to do good, and prepare
ourselves to help build up the kingdom of
God. We are willing to stand all searching
and investigation for we are striving to do
right; I know a humble spirit is pleasing to
our Heavenly Father; there is no such thin
as a proud saint. Sister Eliza Snow says
she has wept before the Lord for the youth
of this people. It is necessary that they
know for themselves that God has spoken
from the heavens, and restored the everlast-
ing gospel. Many have received this testi-
mony through retrenchment. Let us arouse
ourselves and endeavor to be active mem-
bers in the kingdom of God, and gain a
name worthy of remembrance. If we rise
and speak in honor of our Savior, He will
not be ashamed to own us. Let us strive to
overcome evil with good. Seek strength
from the Lord to overlook the imperfections
of others, even as we desire Him to over-
look ours; observe the golden rule, "Do
unto others as we would have them do unto
us," be diligent in improving our minds,
never lose an opportunity for gaining
knowledge. I would like you all to bear
your testimonies to retrenchment to-day, I
ask God to bless you.
	Mrs. Agnes Tuckett: I am happy to be
here to-day, the Spirit of God is with us. I
cannot instruct, but my desires are to do
right and carry our the instructions received
here. We can each one say a few words,
[Column 1]
and they will benefit us. Counselor Miss
Lelia Tuckett said: It is the wish of our
President that we all bear testimony to the
good of retrenchment. I know we have one.
We have hitherto relied too much upon our
parents, but now we must possess knowledge
for ourselves. We are told we not only
lose good instructions by neglecting our
meetings, but we also loose having our names
recorded by angels who are watching over
us. Miss Lizzie Mineer: I know this work
is true, and from God. It is time the young
ladies commenced to study the principles of
our religion. I would not have known to-
day what I do without the aid of retrench-
ment; I am not ashamed to bear my testi-
mony to the truth of Mormonism, I desire
to be numbered one with you in all things.
	Bro. Charles Edwards then said: It is
hard for me to express my feelings. This is all
new to me; I know now what I never knew
before, and my heart swells with joy. I
appreciate the invitation to speak to you;
I can say that God is satisfied with your pro-
ceedings; I have heard many things about
your Association, but I could not speak of a
thing of which I knew nothing. You shall
have my influence in behalf of this good
work, I shall strive to have it sustained, for
I can endorse all I have heard. You cannot
do better than you are doing. This will
lead you back into the presence of your
Father in Heaven. Sustain your President
and each other, be humble and prayerful and
strictly obedient; have sympathy for each
other and prepare yourselves for every event
which is to take place in this kingdom. You
may have to travel rugged paths, but do
right and the Lord will sustain you. Never
let anything stand between you and a meet-
ing where it is your duty to attend. Strive
to retain the spirit of God in your hearts,
and be full of integrity to God and His king-
dom. After adding many other instructive
remarks, he blessed the society in the name
of Jesus.
	President Mrs. Mary A. Freeze said: The
visits of our brethren will prove a great
blessing to us. Many have wrong impres-
sions with regard to our meetings, but we
are quite satisfied that we are doing right,
and we would like others to know it also.
	Counselor Mrs. Sophia Freeze said, I know
retrenchment is good, and I rejoice in my
religion. It is encouraging to know that
we are striving for and feel sure of the ap-
probation of our Heavenly Father. I am al-
ways sorry when we have a good meeting
and but few are present; I realize how much
good is lost.
	Appointments were made for the next
meeting: Mrs. Agnes Tuckett to write an
essay; the subject of Humility continued.
Meeting adjourned for one week; sang
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
	Benediction by Bro. Edwards.
		MISS LELIA TUCKETT, Secretary.
	A meeting of the Senior and Junior Co-
operative Retrenchment Association was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, March 6th, 1875. The assemblage
was very large, meeting opened after the
usual order; minutes were read from the
various wards, which were entertaining and
edifying, showing the increasing progress
made by the young ladies of these Socie-
ties.
	President Mrs. M. I. Horne addressed
the meeting, alluded to the brethren who
had met with them previously, having tes-
tified to the good spirit manifested in their
meetings, and that it had been thought in
times past, that whenever the sisters were
in the habit of meeting together there was
sure to be enthusiasm. But they had been


[Column 1]
organized now for several years and nothing
of that kind had ever yet shown itself in
their meetings.
	Counselor Mrs. B. Smith spoke of the
pleasure she always felt in these meetings,
said she had been edified by the minutes of
the young ladies; spoke of the diligence of
the sisters in the South in working for the
brethren who were engaged upon the tem-
ple, and of the joy she felt when she heard
the last rock had been laid upon the temple.
She was pleased that the young ladies were
abandoning the round dances, believed they
were injurious. She thought we should
avoid debt because of the anxiety it causes
husbands and fathers; that was one reason
why we should encourage home productions.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said she
would not intrude upon Sister M. A. Hyde's 
time, said Sister Smith in her remarks had
touched upon an important subject, home
production was of the first importance.
Said that uniting the hearts and feelings in
the home industry would eventually lead to
the United Order.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde from Spring City, San-
pete, said she seldom had the opportunity
of enjoying these meetings. Their branch 
of the Relief Society and those in other
settlements in that vicinity were progress-
ing. There had also been an association
formed for the young ladies, which seemed
to be doing much good. She expressed her
gratification in seeing the advancement
which had been made, but did not wish to
occupy the time, knowing there were many
present capable of advancing excellent ideas.
	Mrs. Blythe, Mrs. M. P. Young, Mrs. E.
S. Barney, Mrs. Vanhorm and Mrs. H. Brin-
ton spoke upon the subject of home indus-
tries. Counselor Mrs. Z. D. Young spoke
particularly upon silk-culture. Counselor
Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. S. B. Phelps
spoke on the same subject, after which
meeting was adjourned.
				M. M. Groo, Sec.

		HYDE PARK, Cache County,
				March 11th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	We have a Relief Society here, the mem-
bers of which, under the Presidency of
Mrs. Mary Woolf, meet every two weeks.
We have good meetings, and the sisters show
their willingness to do good, in making and
doing all they can for those who are needy;
and comforting those who are in distress.
Our President is alive to her duties and en-
courages the sisters to be one with her.
	Wishing success to every worthy enter-
prise, I am your friend.
				JANE E. MOLEN.

	From the First Ward, we have received
full reports of the meetings of the Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association since Jan.
20th, 1875. That they are making great
progress is plainly apparent by their min-
utes. One of their principle subjects has
been faith, which has been ably commented
upon by their President, Mrs. Sarah Gra-
ham, also Supt. Mrs. Elizabeth Higgs and
others. Obedience was another subject
touched upon, and also the fulfillment of
duty, especially in each one bearing her
testimony, the improvement which those
had made, who had been willing to do so,
and the blessings of the Spirit of God
which had attended them in their efforts.
They were exhorted by members of the so-
ciety in regard to visiting the sick, com-
forting those who were tried, and helping,
by their united efforts, to strengthen each
other. A general spirit of improvement,
union and mutual benefit is manifested by

[Column 2]
them, and their aim is to advance in the 
knowledge of those things which pertain to
life and salvation. They receive encour-
agement from the presence and good words
of Mrs. Margaret Steel from time to time.
Miss Sarah Smith, the Secretary, shows
rapid improvement in the position which
she holds.

			BEAVER CITY, UTAH TER.,
						March 16, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of this place held a party in the Re-
lief Society house on Saturday, 13th inst.
At two o'clock p.m. the young ladies met
to hold their regular meeting, which con-
tinued until half past four, when there was
an intermission of two hours. Then, the
parents and friends of the members having
arrived, the exercises—which consisted of
songs, speeches, original essays, readings
and declamations—were commenced. At
eight o'clock the company partook of a sup-
per provided by the young ladies. Good
instructions were given by Presidents
Fotheringham and Tyler, and Brother Mes-
senger. The party was dismissed by prayer
by Brother Wm. Flake.
	The Association has sixty-four members;
the meetings, which occur once in two
weeks, are well attended. Last month we
donated sixteen dollars to the St. George
Temple.
		Yours Respectfully,
				ELIZA E. PARKINSON,
							Secretary.

SIXTEENTH WARD S. L. City,
				March 20th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	We have been somewhat silent but never-
theless there has been a good work done in
our Relief Society. 
	In 1868 a committee was chosen and duly
organized and we have held our meetings
monthly ever since; they have generally
been well attended and such business has
been done, as seemed necessary; the sisters
here rejoice in bearing testimony, enjoying
the gifts of the spirit and comforting each
other.
	As a committee, I can say, as our worthy
treasurer, sister Thompson did at our last
meeting, we are one and united, in doing
good, assisting the poor, comforting the
sick, and tried, and stirring up the luke-
warm to diligence.
	Our beloved Sister Snow met with us a
few weeks ago and suggested public meet-
ings as often as practicable, for all the mem-
bers of the society in the ward; we hold
them every alternate Saturday; the good
instructions we received from Sister Snow
will be long remembered. As a society we
are desirous of aiding efficiently in every
good work; we appreciate your paper, as also
all the interests of Zion.
		SARAH CUMBERLANT, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	A FEW IDEAS ON WRITING.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

				"They that write	
	Or make a feast, more certainly invite
	Their judges than their friends; there's not a guest.
	But will find something wanting, or ill drest."
	Women are shrewd enough to perceive
that if they launch out into any field of la-
bor (save that of domestic everyday life)
they invite criticism, public and private.
Whether married, or single, old, or young,
ugly, or beautiful, they all come under the

[Column 2]
ban of ridicule, burlesque, or censure. Yet
from motives worthy the approval of hea-
ven itself, some of them are willing to face
public opinion and endure the frowns and
biting sarcasms of their nearest and dearest
friends in the hope of benefiting the hu-
man family, bold in defence of those prin-
ciples they honor and have espoused.
	Everything which comes in contact with
tradition and long-established custom is de-
cidedly unpopular; and those who lead out
in any new channel of thought or action,
must expect opposition in all varieties of
form, and from all imaginable sources. And
alas! should a mistake be made, or a failure
in an infantile attempt, the cry is raised at
once, "they were radically and essentially
wrong," whereas all those, who in the per-
formance of any given object, have arrived
at any distinction, or reached any unpre-
cedented goal, their failures are forgotten.
*	*	*	*	"Applause
	Waits on success; the fickle multitude,
	Like the light straw, that floats along the stream,
	Glide with the current still, and follow fortune."
	Man all powerful and in full possession of
the field, favors not the entrance of wo-
man into the common field of labor, and
would warn her "not to walk the dusty
roads of a working-day-world, but flit upon
the pleasant places of one made up of holi-
days." These "we masculine tyrants we
Dionysii of literature the controversial pen,
the controversial sword be ours"—but adds
"frown not fair helpmates, we will leave
your flower-beds, your sweeter human nur-
series, your despotism over cooks etc. etc.
or, for the more cerulean sort, Lyrics to the 
lost one, or stanzas on a sickly geranium;
but never hazard the loss of your sweet, re-
tiring, modest, amiable dependence; never
stand out as champions on the arena of
strife, but if you will—, strew it with poi-
ses, for the king of the tournament."
	Fair women, honest men I cry your par-
don universally. I can see no good, sound,
wholesome reason against 'woman's writing'
upon any of the general topics of the day.
She may be a profound thinker, but if her
ideas never assume any form, what will it
avail? She may speak, truly, but few will
hear her; and if she have courage to mount
the platform, unless she can deal exten-
sively in gossip, or create some new sensa-
tion, become a "lion" whom the world turns
out to hear roar, she sinks back, into obliv-
ion.
	Thus has it come to pass in this "golden
age" of scribbling, a few are willing to pro-
duce in writing a witness of their mind's
individuality. A tablet inscribed which
shall live forever; cleap, easy and puerile is
the faith that clings to the skirts of others.
These views we grant you, are from a wo-
man's stand-point. But we appeal to you,
wise men and good, who have dared to
think, write, print, in all these contrary to
many, you who have dared to stand alone,
to publish your thoughts in imperishable
print, to outface folly, to condemn vice, be 
generous here, and make allowance for
causeless censure, or unamiable criticism.
Our wrongs are many—but of them, some-
where and when, hereafter; it is always
wiser to suggest, than to exhaust a topic.
	Salt Lake City, March 24th, 1875


﻿THEY say that Vinnie Ream warbles like
a canary. She ought to sing well, there are
twenty choirs in a ream.—Cincinnati Times.

	THE boy who was "lost in thought" has
been found in Chicago.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.

	WHAT is to be? Why a verb to be sure.
	ONE of the boys just before returning to
Cornell, the other day, sent a young lady
friend of his a cake of Dubin's finest variety
of toilet soap, with the request that she
would draw no inferences on receiving such
a gift. The next day the young man was
somewhat astonished when he received a
letter from the young lady containing the
present of a fine tooth comb, with the re-
quest that he would draw no inferences
therefrom.
	ROCHESTER has fourteen astrologists, ten
magic doctors, two-mind readers, a fire-leg-
ged horse, a one-eyed goat, Seth Greene and
Susan B. Anthony and yet longs for some-
thing more. 
	A MAN down east returned his newspaper
to the printing-office with "Jackass" writ-
ten on the margin, and in the next issue
the editor stated the fact, and wound up
the paragraph by asking, "Will our indig-
nant subscriber please to let us know at what
stable he can be found?"
	AT a dinner party in "town" last August,
there were two sisters present, one a widow
who had just emerged from her weeds, the
other not long married, whose husband had
lately gone to India for a short term. A
young barrister present was deputed to take
the widow into dinner. Unfortunately he
was under the impression that his partner
was the married lady whose husband had
just arrived in India.  The conversation be-
tween them commenced by the lady's re-
marking how extremely hot it was. "Yes,
it is very hot," returned the young barris-
ter.  Then a happy thought suggested it-
self to him, and he added, with a cheerful
smile, "But not so hot as the place to which
your husband has gone." The look with
which the widowed lady answered this
"happy thought" will haunt that unhappy
youth till his death.—London Paper.
	"THAT singular man" is a bachelor.
	COLLECTORS know when their work is
dun.
	THE lady with a "single purpose" is an
old maid.
	THE man who "gained more than he lost"
was a gambler.
	THE man whose "first impressions were
often wrong" was a printer.
	A COCKNEY naturally confounds Masons
with hod fellows. 
	JOHN HENRY wants to know if the Ohio
lottery law prohibits marriages.
	AN old farmer purchased some sweet oil
in a drug store, and being asked if there
was "nothing else," he laid several packages
on the counter, held up a hand with several
strings tied on the fingers, and said: "Let's
see! That red string is for the bar soap; that
rag is for a broom; that blue cord for a cali-
co dress; that braid means four pounds of
sugar, and this other string is for sweet oil.
No—nothing more."—Detroit Free Press.
	WOMAN does a good deal to discourage
lofty sentiments of patriotism.  When a
man is leaning over the back fence telling a
neighbor how he would shed his last drop
of blood for suffering Louisiana, it disturbs
him to have his wife yell from the kitchen:
"Look a' here! Are you coming with that
bucket of water, or shall I come out and see
to you?"


[Column 1]
		LITTLE FOLKS.

	A LITTLE girl asked a minister, "Do you
think my father will go to heaven?" Why,
yes my child, "Why do you ask!" "Well,
because if he don't have his own way,
there, he won't stay long, I was thinking"
	SUNDAY school teacher to pupil—"Now,
my little man, can you explain to us the
cause of Adam's fall?" Little man (em-
phatically)—"Yes, sir; cause he hadn't any
ashes to throw on the sidewalk."—Brooklin
Argus.
	ON Monday morning we met a little
French boy lustily blowing a fish horn in
honor of the holiday. An Irish playmate of
the boy saluted him with, "What are you
blowing that horn for? George Washing-
ton did not die to save France."—Newbury-
port Herald.
	"Now, boys, suppose twelve men divide
forty-eight bushels of corn, equally, how
many is that for each?" Boldest boy:
"Please sir, we've not gone that far." "Your
teacher told me you had learned all the first
four rules. Boy: Yes, sir; but we have al-
ways done our sums in potatoes or turnips;
we never had any corn."
	"GRANDMA, do you know why I can see
up in the sky so far?" asked Charlie, a lit-
tle four-year-old, of the venerable lady who
sat on the garden seat knitting.  "No, my
dear, why is it?" said grandma, bending
her ear eager to catch and remember the
wise saying of the precious little pet "Be-
cause there is nothing in the way," replied
the young philosopher, resuming his astro-
nomical research, and grandma her knit-
ting.
	A WISCONSIN school boy handed in the
following composition recently: "I go to
school to learn to read and rite and syphor
and so forth to slide on the ice and traid
off an old nife if I have one, in summer to
pick wildflowers and strawberries and to get
out of work hot days, some boys has to go
to school to get out of their mother's road,
but I would rather stay in winter than to
go miles and set by a cold stove and freeze
my toes.  I like to go to school to see the
teacher scold the big girls when they cut
up.  Some goes to school to fool but I go to
study, when we are old we can't go to school
and then we will feel sorry that we fooled
when we were young and went to school. I
don't get no time to fool anyway for I have
enough to do when it comes to my geogra-
phy.
	DON'T GIVE UP BUT TRY.—A man trav-
eling in the northern part of Ireland, heard
the voices of children and stopped to lis-
en.
Finding the sound came from a small
building used as a school-house, he drew
near; as the door was open he went in, and
listened to the words the boys were spell-
ing.
	One little fellow stood apart, looking very
sad.
	'Why does that boy stand there?' asked
the gentleman.
	'Oh, he is good for nothing!' replied the
teacher. 'There's nothing in him.  I can
make nothing of him.  He is the most
stupid boy in school."
	The gentleman was surprised at this an-
swer. He saw that the teacher was so stern
and rough, that the younger and more timid
were nearly crushed. After a few words to
them, placing his hands on the noble brow
of the little fellow who stood apart he said,
—One of these days you may be a fine
scholar; don't give up; try, my boy, try.'

[Column 2]
	The boy's soul was aroused. His sleep-
ing mind awoke. A new purpose was
formed. From that hour he became anx-
ious to excel. And he did become a fine
scholar, and the author of a well known
commentary on the Bible; a great and good
man, beloved and honored.  It was Dr.
Adam Clarke,
	The secret of his success is worth know-
ing: 'Don't give up; but try, my boy.'


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
   CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
		      AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	    Large Assortment of
CONEY FURS, CAPE AND MUFF, $3.50.
      Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS. 
				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 
			H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
	        Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store.
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO.OP CORNER. 
H. WALLACE
	Has the best, largest and purest stock of confec-
tionary in Salt Lake city. Just the place for ladies
to purchase.
				CLUB RATES.  
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a 
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.								$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,								  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12 x 16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50							   34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price  $4                       48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify as of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers. 
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former,  as 
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and 
otherwise using their influence to increase its circul-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Vol. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1875.			No. 22﻿


NOTES AND NEWS.

  	CALIFORNIA is to make a full exhibition
of her minerals, mines, wool, silk, fruits,
grain and fabrics at the centennial.
	HARTFORD IS terribly agitated with a
ghost which appears to have made a serious
impression on its inhabitants. The ghost
was first seen by a student of Trinity Col-
lege March 21st, and again on Monday night
by a watchman.
	A SECRET political organization is said to
have been started in Conn., the members of 
which pledge themselves to support Grant.
All its sessions are secret and all candidates
for admission are required to take the iron-
clad oath.
	IN ENGLAND, the women have a "Wo-
man's Protective and Provident League," a
"Woman's Educational Union," and a "Mar-
ried Woman's Property Act." Like the
women of America, they labor with una-
bated energy and perserverance to secure
their political rights, and to qualify them-
selves for the proper use of the same.
	THE CINCINNATI "Commercial" de-
scribes a "glorious spelling-match," which
came off in Pike's Opera House, the partici-
pants including editors, doctors, lawyers,
clergymen and merchants.  The house was
packed from pit to dome; it opened with in-
spiring music from the orchestra, and each
failure was followed by a shriek of discord
from the trombone. A brilliant gilt crown
was prepared for the champion speller, but
it did not adorn any victor's brow, every
one of the spellers failed.
	STRANGE FACTS are related concerning the
organ of vision. A schoolmistress in Eng-
land, who is blind, can readily tell if the
boys in a distant corner of the room are
playing instead of studying, while by a per-
son using the eyes no sound can be detected.
A few years ago there was a blind man in
England also, who was a surveyor and plan-
ner of roads, being guided by his ear in re-
gard to distances, as accurately as another
would be by the eye.  Much as the precious
power of sight is prized, and terrible as the
loss of it seems to those who have realized
its worth, it is wonderful to contemplate
that had we all been born without eyes, we
should never have thought of their value.


GOOD ENOUGH FOR HOME.

	“Why do you put on that forlorn old dress?”
asked Emily Manners of her cousin Lydia, one
morning after she had spent the night at Lydia’s
house.
	The dress in question was a spotted, faded, old
summer silk, which only looked the more forlorn
for its once fashionable trimmings, now crumpled
and frayed.
	“Oh, anything is good enough for home, ” said
Lydia, hastily pinning on a soiled collar, and twist-
ing up her hair in a ragged knot, she went down
to breakfast.
	"Your hair is coming down,” said Emily.
	“Oh, never mind, it’s good enough for home."
said Lydia, carelessly. Lydia had been visiting
at Emily’s home, and had always appeared in the
prettiest of morning dresses, and with neat hair
and dainty collars and cuffs; but now that she was


back again among her brothers and sisters, and
with her parents, she seemed to think anything
would answer, and went about untidy and rough in
soiled finery. At her uncle’s she had been pleas-
ant and polite, and had won golden opinions from
all; but with her own family her manners were as
careless as her dress; and she seemed to think that
courtesy and kindness were too expensive for home
wear, and that anything was good enough for
home.
	There are two many people who, like Lydia,
seem to think that anything will do for home.
Young men who are polite and pleasant in outside
society are sometimes rude to their mothers and
snarl at their sisters; and girls who among stran-
gers are all gaiety and animation, never make an
exertion to please their own family.
	It is a wretched way to turn always the smooth-
est side to the world, and the roughest and coars-
est to one’s nearest and dearest friends.


﻿WHAT ARE WE LIVING FOR?

	My dear Sisters. Daughters in Zion.
	I feel as though I could no longer hold my
peace, my heart is so full when I think of
all that lies before us to be done.  How
broad the field is in which we have volun-
teered to labor! And what great necessity
there is for our being firmly united in the
work which we have espoused.
	I would that I might do more than I have
power to accomplish, to assist in the great
practical work of the redemption of Zion
and the salvation of the human family.
And were my strength but equal to my
zeal, I feel that I might aid in "turning
some stones," in "binding some cords," in
"weaving some threads" for the good of the
common cause. As it is, I have no inten-
tion of remaining idle.  I can still knit and
darn stockings, braid straw, feed chickens,
make and mend common clothing and many
other such things which are of considerable
consequence in every-day life. But what-
ever I do, I want it to be done in the spirit
of meekness, with an eye single to the glo-
ry of God our Father, whose continued
mercies to me are "beyond the power of
tongue to tell." I want to bear my testi-
mony to you my sisters, that it is worth all
to live for the Celestial Kingdom of God and
to do the work which He assigns to us, no
matter what it may be. If he wants us to
raise silk and cotton and wool, and make
our own clothing, all right; let us do so
cheerfully and with thankful hearts.  If He
tells us by the mouth of His Prophet, that
it is best for us to produce and prepare our
food of every kind, let us do that also, and
feel blest in giving our children good, whole-
some sustenance that we know contains no
poisons or hurtful substance. Let us work
for the good of the world, for the building
up of the kingdom of  righteousness. For
all other efforts will surely come to nought.
Let us be wise and know for ourselves what
we are living for.  Let us live as saints
should live, in purity and humility; all for
the kingdom, not each for self alone. And
by and by, when the Temple is prepared,
and the city is ready, our dear Father and
Lord will come and visit us, and we shall
all know Him and be owned and accepted
of Him. Don't you think we will all feel
better then, to appear in garments of the


finest texture and the purest quality in all
respects, that have been made within the
borders of Zion, than we should, to be com-
pelled to confess that strangers were the
manufacturers, and that we had been pur-
chasing of "out-siders?" I think we should.
I'll tell you what, my friends, I am more
than ninety years old, but I hope to see the
time ere I "have shuffled off mortality,"
that I shall have a beautiful home-made
silk dress to wear at one of my birthday-
parties; and I invite you all to come to it.
	My heart is full of blessings for you all,
and may God bless you forever.
				RHODA RICHARDS.


ANGER.

	I think we have a very good subject for
our meeting this evening, and it is one
which we can all realize deserves our atten-
tion. I get angry very easily, but am try-
ing to overcome my ill temper, and striving
to correct my faults. If we do not cultivate
ourselves while we are young, it will be
much harder to accomplish when we are
older. We can begin by being more pa-
tient with our little brothers and sisters,
and speaking kindly to those at home.
Seek to cultivate a pleasing manner towards
all, and when we go into society, we will
be respected and esteemed by those with
whom we are associated.
	I heard the remark recently that it was
not always the prettiest girl that was most
attractive, or most beloved, and it is true.
The manners and conduct of a young lady
will secure the respect and esteem of those
at home and abroad, if she is careful in her
behavior and truly respects herself. No
true lady will cultivate a proud, haughty
disposition. We should pray continually
that we may be truthful for we are told in
the Bible that they who speak falsely have
their portion assigned to them, and they
cannot be trusted, for we cannot lock things
up from them as we do from thieves.
	May we have power to overcome our evil
propensities and walk in the path which
leads to eternal life. 		ROSEBUD.
	S. L. City, April 1st, 1875.


FLOWERS.

	THE best law—The golden rule.
	IN ascending the hill of adversity, may
we never meet a friend.
	LET not the grandeur of any man's sta-
tion render him proud and wilful; but let
him remember when he is surrounded with
a crowd of suppliants, death shall level him
with the meanest of mankind.
	WHEN Carlyle was engaged in writing
the life of Frederick, he had prepared a
special study apart from his library, whose
walls were covered with books and pictures
of which each one, without exception, was
in some way connected with the man of
whom he was writing.  They who are not,
even for a time, specialists, may neverthe-
less follow his example so far as to take care
not to surround themselves with distracting
objects.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
TO A YOUNG MOTHER.

Life is young and love is tender,
	Passing joys are ever sweet;
Hearts that crave no worldly splendor
	Surely sweet content shall meet.

Those whose hearts are ever happy,
	Knowing not of life's deep care,
Know no name more deep than "fervent"
	For the earnest hour of prayer.

But in life there cometh sorrow,
	Cometh darkness and despair.
And the heart o'ercharged with burden,
	Often bows in "anguished prayer."

Life is young and love is tender,
	May its brightness ever shine,
May no sadness mar its splendor,
	May no anguished prayer be thine!
									M. J. T.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Young Ladies’ Co-operative Retrench-
ment Association of Bountiful, Davis Co.,
was organized October 27th, 1870.
	Mrs. Susan Grant, President,
	''	Nancy Willey, Vice-President.
	''    	Mary A. Call, Counselor
	Miss Lucy Fackrell, Counselor
	Mrs. Jane Holt, Counselor
	“      Eliza Dalrymple, Counselor
	“      Regena Stoker, Counselor
	“      Jane A. Hales, Secretary.
	In attempting to speak in behalf of our
Young Ladies’ Society, I will try to por-
tray the feelings of all. We have been
rather dilatory in sending in a report of our
Society, but think it better late than never.
	I presume many do not understand the
good, to be derived from meeting together,
and exchanging ideas with each other.
Many of our young ladies look lightly upon
this matter, and say, "I am too young; it
belongs to those who are more experienced.
I cannot speak in public." But how is ex-
perience to be gained except by trying? It
is the duty of young ladies to attend Relief
and Retrenchment Meetings, to speak and
encourage each other. In the future we
wish to become great and noble—not to gain
worldly applause, the aim is to spread sun-
shine and not shade, to help those who
stand in need, thus securing happiness to
ourselves while making others happy; we
have been instructed not to follow the vain
fashions of Babylon, but make our own
fashions. It is according to our professions
to appear in plain and comely attire, the
workmanship of our own hands, to strive to
be women of honor, full of integrity, make
choice of the words we utter, and the man-
ners we adopt; these are duties we owe,
not to ourselves only, but to those around
us. Modesty and virtue are the richest or-
naments that adorn a women. Our duty to
our parents should not be forgotton. The
gentlest, kindest care we can bestow upon
them is not too much, or more than they
deserve. There is a glorious future await-
ing the faithful; let us be up and doing,
trying to perform every duty that is requir-
ed at our hands.
		MARY E. WOOLSTENHULME.
			         Assistant Secretary.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation, convened in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Apr. 3rd, 1875.
	That the meeting was one of particular
interest was manifested by the large attend-
ance and strict adherence to the subject now
being agitated, namely, HOME INDUS-
TRIES.
	After the usual ceremonies, and the read-
[Column 1]
ing of minutes by the young secretaries
from the different wards, spirited remarks
were made, appropriate to the occasion by
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Z. D. Young, Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. B. Smith; and also by Mrs. E. S.
Barney, relative to the straw work, silk
manufacture, the making of trimmings,
laces, flowers etc; duties devolving upon the
different Societies in accordance with the
counsel which has been given by Prest.
Young. Br. Jones who has been employed
by the sisters to prepare the mulberry cut-
tings, made suitable suggestions relating to
the cultivation of the mulberry-tree, its
adaptation to soil and its rapid growth. He
expressed his satisfaction with the course
the sisters were pursuing and wished them
ultimate success.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
HOW TO BECOME MOST USEFUL
			IN LIFE.

	How very many different ways there are
of being useful, but to become most so, I
can scarcely determine.
	There is a great diversity of opinions up-
on this subject; many very talented persons,
who possess superior intelligence and in-
tellect, devote themselves, almost unreserv-
edly, to the pursuit of science—perhaps
some particular branch; and then, most gen-
erally, give the world the benefit of their
investigations; perhaps it has been a life-
work, then the whole world is the gainer,
consequently we may say, such have really,
led lives of true usefulness.
	There is another class who aim to be great
statesmen and politicians, and exert all the
energies they possess to obtain a comple and
thorough knowledge of how best to govern
and control the affairs of state. This class,
class if they really desire the interests of
the people and seek to make the condition of
their fellowmen better, must assuredly rank
among the useful of mankind.
	Then again there is the philanthropist,
who, perhaps, denies himself that which
would be pleasant and agreeable to him, that
he may materially benefit others. He tries
by every means in his power to improve the
social condition of his fellowmen, and to
elevate them in the scale of being.  He
seeks, to raise up tnose who are bowed down
—to alleviate the suffering—to ameliorate
the condition of the captive, and, in short
we must acknowledge that his life, is to all
within his reach, useful and beneficial. 
	Others, again, live only to be useful in
the service of the Lord; caring little for the.
usages of society, they seek, not the praise
of the world, or the perishable thing which
pertain thereto; but labor to save the souls
of the children of men; to teach the princi-
ples of salvation, according to their peculiar
ideas, or religious beliefs; they too may be
accounted useful.
	There is still another class of useful men
and women, I will mention, who exercise
their brains, to invent all the several bran-
ches of mechanism; some one thing and
some another; these inventors, if success-
ful, are not only benefactors to the age in
which they live, but, in many instances, to
succeeding generations, and their names are
held in honorable remembrance; but to
mention each and every class separately,
would occupy too much time. There is an
endless variety of ways in which to be use-
ful both to ourselves and others, but, which
is the best or most successful way for each,
depends more or less on surrounding cir-
cumstances. And yet we may all arrive at
some general conclusions.

[Column 2]
	But perhaps you will say, I have more
particularly alluded to men. That is true;
men seem to take precedence in all these
things, and yet there have been women who
have filled prominent positions, with as
much dignity and credit to themselves, as
men. Women have ruled over nations,
been honored in their stations, and have
conferred as great benefits upon their sub-
jects, and given quite as much satisfaction,
(and in some instances more) as men; and
women have made themselves of great use
to the world, or the age in which they lived;
but I will try to come down to the subject
as relates to myself. I have spent consid-
erable time, and I hope some of it profita-
bly in preparing to make myself useful to
others; but, as yet, I do not seem to have
accomplished much, comparatively, still I
have not been indolent, my time has been
almost entirely occupied, and I reflect a good
deal, how to make the best use of it possi-
ble. 
	There are a multitude of little trifles per,
formed every day, that seem nothing, and
yet each of these is of use—their worth
should be estimated by their numbers not
by their magnitude. 
	I cannot satisfy myself on this subject,
but will sum up my ideas thus; the one who
helps most to do good to others, lives most
truly, a life of usefulness.			M.


For the EXPONENT.
		THE MORMON CREED.

	It is many years since I came into these
mountains; but in those by-gone days I fre-
quently heard what was called the "Mor-
mon Creed" alluded to.  But in these days
of calumny and ill report, I almost think the
memory of it is fast dying out.
	On hearing a scandalous story not long
since, I said I can't believe it without more
confirmation. And yet, how often such
stories are caught up and sent broad cast
through society to the ruination of a wo-
man's reputation; she is looked upon as a
low character, and sometimes treated by
those who ought to be her friends, as though
she were a fit inmate for a jail.  All this,
when perhaps she  committed no crime,
broken no law, not even done an intentional
wrong. Yet it may take a woman years to
live down such an influence.  How much
suffering and evil it would save, if we only
would stop to think "there are always two
sides to a story." Or if we would remem-
ber that the surest way to find out the truth,
is to go to friends for information, and not
to enemies. Then perhaps we should learn
to practice more the "Mormon creed," To
mind our own business.
			EMMA N. BINGHAM, OGDEN


DON'T, PLEASE DON'T.

	Don't tell the little one, who may be
slightly wilful, that "the black man will
come out of the dark cellar and carry it off
if it does not mind." Don't create a need-
less fear to go with the child through all the
stages of existence.
	Don't tell the little five-year-old Jimmy
"the school ma'm will cut of his ears"—
"pull out his teeth"—"tie him up"—or any
of the horrible stories that are frequently
presented to the childish imagination.
Think you the little one will believe any-
thing you tell after he becomes acquainted
with the gentle teacher who has not the
least idea of putting these terrible threats 
into execution?
	Don't tell the children they must not


drink tea because it will make them black,
while you continue to use it daily. Your
example is more to them than pretext; and
while your face is as fair as a June morning
they will scarcely credit the oft-told tale.
Either give up drinking the pleasant bever-
age or give your children a better reason for
its non-use.
	Don't tell them they must not eat sugar
or sweetmeats, because it will rot their
teeth.  Pure sugar does not cause the teeth
to decay, and sugar with fruits is nutritious
and healthy, notwithstanding the “old saw”
to the contrary. The case of city children
is often cited as if their cause of the pale
faces and slight constitutions were an over
amount of sweetmeats with their actual
cause is want of pure air and proper exer-
cise.—R. N. Y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	SALT LAKE CITY, April 5th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	My remarks at the meeting, March 6th
1875, concerning  the St. George Temple,
were misunderstood.
	It should read:—The last rock to make it
ready for the roof; and after the roof is put
on, seventy-three cords of red rock will be
used to complete the walls and pinnacles,
the roof being nearly flat, will be concealed
from the observer on the ground by this ad-
ditional wall.		Respectfully Yours,
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.

	SUGAR HOUSE WARD, March 27th, 1875.
DEAR SISTER RICHARDS:
	I fear you are beginning to think the sis-
ters out in this ward are going to sleep.—I
wish to say, it is not so; they are doing the
best they can, with their surroundings; re-
sponding to all the calls made upon them,
visiting the ward, taking care of the sick,
and donating a little to the St. George Tem-
ple. The brethren and sisters of the ward
have donated nearly six-hundred dollars in
labor and produce towards building a new
house for the Society.
	With kind wishes I am yours kindly,
			SARAH WHEELER, Secretary.

				LEHI MARCH 23rd, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Our branch of the Relief Society is still
prospering; we held our sixth ANNUAL
MEETING on the 28th of October 1874. EL-
DER WM. BATES met with us, encouraged
and stimulated us by his words of comfort
and excellent instructions. We truly real-
ized that promise of the Savior's, that
"Where two or three are gathered together
in His name He will be there to own and
bless them."  During the past year our dis-
bursments for charitable purposes amounted
to three hundred and forty dollars, we also
made ninety yards of rag carpet for our
Tabernacle. I thank God that a few of us
have done as well as we have, but Oh how
little in comparison to what might be done
if we were united; if the sisters could only
realize that these Societies were schools, to
educate them in their duties in life, and the
principles of the everlasting Gospel! Dic-
tated by the Holy Spirit we can exchange
thoughts and sentiments, mutually instruct-
ing each other, comforting those who are
in sorrow, teaching the daughters of Zion
to trust in God and lean upon Him. He
will not withhold any good thing from
them, if they will seek to carry out His will,
neglecting not the privileges they enjoy.
If we meet together from time to time and
seek diligently to become intelligent, order-
ing and controlling our lives so as to influ-

[Column 2]
ence others for good, earnestly praying for
the Spirit of the Lord to guide our efforts,
we may become as it were enveloped in a 
mantle which will protect us from contact
with evil, and give us power over those
with whom we may be associated.
	Praying God to bless you, and all the
faithful, I subscribe myself,
				Yours in the Gospel,
					M. Stand Ring.

	The First Annual Meeting of the First
Ward Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation held in the School House of  that 
Ward, Apr. 2. 1875.
	The President and ladies of the Society
tendered an invitation and conveyance to
the President and Counselors of the Senior
R.A. and some other Presidents and officers
of Societies. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. Zina
D. Young, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. Ra-
chel R. Grant and others were present at
the meeting and spoke upon subjects per-
taining to the progress of the Society and 
Home Industries.
	The Bishop manifested the warmest in-
terest in the movements being made, and
everything was pleasant, except the weath-
er, which was very unfavorable; however
there was a crowded house, which proves
that all "are not asleep in Zion."
	After the adjournment of the meeting,
the Bishop and invited guests repaired to 
the house of the President, Mrs. Sarah
Graham, and partook of a supper prepared
for the occasion.


MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:
	I feel that I should like to mingle my
voice with my sisters, through the columns
of your valuable paper.
	I take great pleasure in reading the EX-
PONENT, but when I undertake to write, it
is with feelings of timidity that I venture
to pen a few lines for your consideration.
	The United Order is a subject that occu-
pies a considerable portion of my thoughts
and reflections. I am a member of the
United Order, and I truly believe the time
has come for us to begin to live in and prac-
tice it. And I think the brethren and sis-
ters who are working together here, feel to
live humbly, and strive to begin to love
their neighbors as themselves. How long
it will take to arrive at that state of perfec-
tion, I am not prepared to say, but it will
not be until we do away with a consider-
able amount of selfishness.
	Some seem to think when they join the
Order they can throw off all responsibility
and that the United Order will take care of
them and theirs.
	I do not look at it in that light; I think
every person should strive to build up and
do all in their power to make it a success,
work just as faithfully and diligently for the
support of a United Order family as they
would for their individual family.
	If it does not prove a success, the fault
will be with the people, and not with the
principle. I often think of a very little re-
mark of Brother George A. Smith, which
expressed a great deal to me. He said:
"Live humbly, very, very humbly." I
think we should all do this, and seek the Lord
diligently in prayer that we may not be led
into temptation, for it is my belief that the
enemy of righteousness will yet try harder
than ever before, to overthrow the Kingdom
of God. May the Lord help us to prove
faithful, is the desire of
		A FRIEND TO THE EXPONENT.


HE that revengeth knows no rest.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	"GRANDMA," said a heroic little four
year old, "I'll help the Lord to chain that
old Satan, when I am a man.”
	IT is a lovely sight to see a bee sucking
honey, from a fragrant. flower; but it is a
still more beautiful sight to see a little child
storing up knowledge from a good and use-
ful book.
	SCHOOL inspector: "Now, Johnny, how
many can you count?" Johnny: "One, two,
three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,
ten." Inspector: "Good, Johnny, go on."
Johnny, (after a moment's thought): "Jack,
queen, king, ace."
	"MAMA," said a little girl on a Sunday
afternoon, "the teacher tells me that this
life is but given us by God, for a little while,
that we may prepare for a better world.
But, mother, I don't see any one preparing.
I see you preparing to go into the country
—and Aunt Eliza preparing to come here,
but nobody preparing to go to heaven. If
every body wants to go to heaven, why
don't they try to get ready?"
	A GENTLEMAN walking behind two school
children on Washing avenue, the other day,
day heard the boy inquire, "Will you be at
the party to-night?" "I shall be there," an-
swered the miss, "but I may as well tell
you now that your love is hopeless. Mamma
is determined, father is set, and it isn't
right for me to encourage your attentions.
I can be a sister to you, but nothing more.
Therefore you needn't buy me any valen-
tines or give me any more gum."


FORGIVENESS OF INJURY.

	An editor of a weekly paper published in
a little village in Missouri, called at the
White house and was admitted to Mr. Lin-
coln's presence. He at once commenced
stating to Mr. Lincoln that he was the man
who first suggested his name for the Presi-
dency, and pulling from his pocket an old,
worn, defaced copy of his paper, exhibited
to the President an item on the subject.
	“Do you really think,” said Mr. Lincoln,
“that announcement was the occasion of my
nomination?"
	“Certainly,” said the editor, “the sugges-
tion was so opportune that it was at once
taken up by other papers, and the result
was your nomination and election.”
	“Ah I well,” said Mr. Lincoln with a sigh
and assuming a rather gloomy countenance,
"I am glad to see you and to know this, but
you will have to excuse me, I am just going
to the war department to see Secretary
Stanton.”	
	“Well,” said the editor, “I will walk over
with you.”
	The President, with that apt good nature
so characteristic to him, took up his hat and
said:
	“Come along.”
	When they reached the door of the Sec-
retary's office Mr. Lincoln turned to his
companion and said:
	“I shall have to see Mr. Stanton alone,
and you must excuse me,” and taking him
by the hand, he continued:
	“Good bye. I hope you will feel perfect-
ly easy about having nominated me, Don’t
be troubled about it, I forgive you.”


"John!" exclaimed Mary, throwing her
arms around her bother's neck' "what sub-
stitutes can their be for the endearments of
a sister?" "Well," said John, "you see,
sis, that depends on whose sister it is."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates; Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers Woman's Exponent,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY. APRIL 15, 1875


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.
			PERSONAL.
	President Grant is expected to arrive in
Boston on the 17th, as the guest of the 
Commercial Club......Josephine Mansfield
has recovered judgment against the estate
of James Fisk Jr. for $25,000, an effort is
being made to secure a new trial......Gen.
Ben. Butler is the attorney in a case, pend-
ing in the treasury department under very
peculiar circumstances, the case is a claim
for $50,000 for property seized in New Or-
leans for the use of The Northern Army by
Gen. Butler in command.  Butler now ap-
pears as counsel against the acts of Butler
as General......Smiler Colfax has made $60,
000 lecturing this season.....A box at
Patti's benefit in St. Petersburg was sold for
only $250.  At the conclusion of her recent
engagement in that city, she was presented
with a magnificient diadem of diamonds
and sapphires.....Mc. Carter, chief of the
bureau of engraving and printing has ten-
dered his resignation......Andrew Johnson's
speech on the 22d. on the Lousiana question
was at least three hours long......The Presi-
dent has signed the commission of John C.
New to be treasurer of the United States,
to take effect from June 30. 1875......The
Chinese have been celebrating the accession
of the new Emperor....The fourth son of
Bret Harte was born at Morristown N. Y.
on Monday March 15., his eldest is about
thirteen.  The death of his mother has
been recently announced. 

			FOREIGN.
	Madame Catacazy, wife of the former
Russian Minister to this country denies the
report of having separated from her hus-
band......The Emperor of Austria met the
King of Italy at Venice on the 4th of April
......M. Buffer says the New French Minis-
try is essentially conservative......The Jap-
anese educational fund is nearly doubled
this year......The Sultan of Turkey employs
in his palace 6,000 servants of both sexes
......Don Carloss has issued a decree calling
into service all males in the Navarrese pro-
vinces over eighteen years of age......Eng-
land exported last year 3,603,000,000 yds. of
cotton cloth......The Japanese opposition to
the Pacific Mail line between ports of Japan
and China has gone into operation......The 
fund which has been started in Denmark for
the erection of a statue to Hans Christian
Andersen already exceeds 18,000 crowns
......In the year 1821 a cutler of sheffield
presented Queen Caroline wife of George
IV with a pocket-knife containing 1,821
blades......At Berlin Prussia an institution
has been opened giving shelter and employ-
ment to orphan girls called "Maiden Home"
......The Emperor William of Prussia has
abandoned his journey to Italy on account of
ill health.

			GENERAL
	A Baltimore beggar has retired from bus-
iness with a fortune of $26,000.....Delaware
has appropriated $10,000 to the centennial
exhibition......The International Department
will send a competent geologist to examine
the Black Hills and ascertain accurately their
mineral wealth......As late as 1750 in Mass.
a colored woman was burned at the stake for
poisoning her master......Ex-Gov. Hale of
New Hampshire is recovering from his ill-
ness......Prof. G. W. Atherton of Rutgers
College has been tendered the presidency of
Howard University Washington D.C......Dr.
Van Courtlandt a geologist and physician
of great repute died at Ottawa Canada on
Thurs. March 25......Boston proposes to cele-
brate the one hundredth anniversary of the
battle of Bunker Hill June 17th by a grand

[Column 2]
parade of the entire state militia...... Sev-
enty millions of dollars is said to be an un-
exaggerated estimate of losses by fire in the 
United States in 1874......Mrs. Pratt of San
Francisco has applied for a divorce with a 
modest alimony of 1,000,000......In 1874 it
is asserted that San Francisco sent $1,400,000
in gold east to buy pork and lard......Major
Gen. John Williams Ex-Mayor of Rochester
a former member of congress and treasurer
of that City for the last two years died on 
Thurs. March 25th at the age of 68......The
new postal law doubling the pastage on pa-
pers etc. to non-subscribers is now in force
......Prof. Zaba lately from Europe is into-
ducing a new method of teaching History
by means of a chart......Assistant Attorney-
General Hill of Washington has offered his
resignation......There have arrived in Cal.
since Apr. 1, 1874, 33,197 emigrants by rail
......In Nevada there are 900 licensed hous-
es where liquors are retailed the population 
is 55,000......The construction of the Panama
railroad cost 82,000 human lives from death
by malaria.


THE BLACK SHEEP.

	The above term, as often applied to one of a
human fold, is a very significant, and to us, a
very painful one. It implies too forcibly
the rigid fact, that one born an "unfortunate,"
is doomed to bear ridicule and censure, rather
than to receive pity and charitable words and
acts—not so much from strangers as from broth-
ers and sisters, and even from the parents them-
selves whose folly or weakness has, in some
way, been the cause of the deficiency. It is al-
so a fact to be regretted, that these human
black sheep are, in so many instances, like sen-
sitive plants in their natures, making their fate
a still more pitable one.
	If parents could only understand that the en-
tire fault of such peculiar dispositions, such de-
formed minds being brought into existence, is
always, or nearly so, their own, certainly the
number born of unhappy beings would be less,
and the world less full of sorrow. If mothers
could be brought to realize, how much they
have to do  with the forming of the characters
of men ond women, ere they are given exist-
ence in the outer world, surely no pains taking
would be to great for them, in the matter of
producing good and noble, rather than inferior
offspring
		"Nature inviolate holds certain laws,
		There's no effect produced without a cause,"
	A woman cannot allow herself to be reckless,
disagreeable or in any particular that which
she ought not to be, and bring forth a sweet-
souled, lovely and in all respects perfect off-
spring. There may be nothing wanting of
beauty and comeliness in form and feature.
But desirable as ought which pleases the eye
may be, how much better to place upon the


earth a deformed body, or a visage severely
plain, containing a superior heart and brain, a
mind of great worth, than to burden it with a
deceptive charm, or a hateful, disconsolate be-
ing who can bring no sunshine for self or for
others.
	The common charge placed upon woman—
that she is alone to blame for all the evils that
are born with men—is, however an unjust one.
The great work of forming minds, is mainly
hers. But if man would stop to reflect upon
the subject, and be made aware of the import-
ance of his position and the course he takes in
relation to the peopling of the world, he would,
in many instances, be a better husband and act
a more generous and manly part than he does.
	A woman may be surrounded with all the
comforts of life, and yet be kept in a state of
miserable apprehensions, from which she
has not power to rise, by the indiscreet pro-
ceedings of an unwise man. If, by uncon-
trolable circumstances, her lot must be a hard
one, it may be rendered much more tolerable
by the care and sympathy and tender solicitude
of a kind and agreeable husband.
	When parents learn wisdom and practise it,
there will be no black sheep among their flocks.
There will be only loving and lovable beings
begotten and born, and the human household
will contain only happy and delightful circles
of precious, darling lambs.


HOME PRODUCTIONS.

		WOMAN'S AID SOLICITED.	

	"Custom's the world's great idol we adore,
	And knowing this we seek to know no more."
	The financial troubles of the nation are be-
coming so complicated and embarrassing, that
an appeal is being made to the women of the
country, to aid in stemming the flood of in-
debtedness, and lend a helping hand in rescu-
ing and retrieving its falling fortunes; simply
by purchasing home productions, goods with-
out a foreign mark. It has indeed become a
“mania" in aristocratic circles, to wear for-
eign goods; polite society in its progressive ad-
vancement repudiates whatever is cheap, easy
of access, or inclined to simplicity.
	To be salable, it has become so essential that
the finer qualities of goods should have a for-
eign mark, that in many instances home pro-
ductions are sold under the head of "IMPORT-
ED" a word which possesses a mysterious fas-
cination, and a magic charm with these votar-
ies of fashion, these favorites of the "sterner
sex."
	And for what purpose are they thus arrayed,
and who are their admirers, who follow in
their wake, in the halls and realms of fashion?
Who worship at their shrine, who lauds their
beauty and magnificence their incomparable
charms, their manners "A la Parisienne?"
	Is it not the very men, who are now asking
them to retrench—is it not for them they have
adorned themselves, that they might win their
admiration? At least, that is about the only
consideration or recompense vouchsafed; as for
love, or sentiment, men of business, have no
time to indulge in anything so trivial.
	When men will pay court to ladies in simple
toiletts without ornaments, and accord to them
the same distinguished courtesies which char-
acterize their attentions to those who are elab-
orately and daintily "gotten up," then women
will believe they mean what they say, and
practice what they preach.
	Millions of dollars are sent abroad annually
for these costly fabrics, for which GOLD must be
paid; and while this incessent drain continues,
panics will be inevitable, and eventually, unless


some permanent stoppage is effected, a tre-
mendious and overwhelming crash.  It is said
by those who are raising their voices in this
matter, that it is the women who demand and
use these superfluities, and it is for them to act
against the "tyranny of mode." But are wo-
men more culpable in this respect than men?
In short is it not the same frivolous, shrinking
behind woman's skirts to screen themselves
which has been inherited in them from the
days of father Adam?  How much money is
expended yearly for liquors of all kinds with
foreign brands, cigars, perfumaries etc? to say
nothing of the French kids, jewelry, and
watches of foreign manufacture.  Think you the
ladies wardrobes will out-balance in cost the
sum-total of your own individual expenditures?
Yet you call upon women to make an effort to
stay this formidable current meantime your
own demerits are unmentioned—is this fair?
	It will not require any particular sacrifice,
there will be no need of leagues or clubs or any
such useless palaver, say they, only a "practical
movement." Oh no! certainly not, nothing of
this sort ever does.  Gentlemen you are labor-
ing under a serious mistake. Women know
full well that when they attempt to step out of
the groove designated by the reigning monarch
"A la mode," they become a mark of criticism;
and though their motives are as pure as those
of angels, they will not escape the cutting, bit-
sarcasms of those who cannot understand or
appreciate any superior strength of mind or
elevation of character.
	Consistency is a rare jewel, and while men
call upon women to help in extricating them
from difficulties, meantime ridicule and sneer
at their untiring efforts to lead out practically
in any laudable and praise-worthy undertak-
ing, which will effectually aid in a general re-
form, and give women a more thorough under-
standing of financial matters, they must ex-
pect to be outwitted.
	When they can believe, that women are en-
titled to equal rights and privileges, in all mat-
ters which pertain to their mutual interests,
and will encourage them in their true position
acknowledging there are zealous workers in
the field, aiming not so much for "the ballot,
the bench, and th pulpit," as for a keen appre-
ciation of their powers.  Then there will follow
a decisive revolution which will give the
world a better standard from which to judge 
woman.
	S. L. City, Apr. 13, 1874.		B. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

MRS. L. G. RICHARDS:
	I send you a note written by the Bishop of
the 1st Ward, S. L. City, and request its pub-
lication as an advertisement of the specified
movement of one very useful branch of Home
Industry.
	I consider each successful Branch of Home
Manufactures, an additional stone in laying the
foundation for the upbuilding of Zion—in our
becoming a self-sustaining people. To make
it successful, it must be supported by the influ-
ence and encouragement of the saints; and this
cannot be done by waiting with folded hands
and doubtful looks, to see whether it proves a
failure or success. May the latter be the result
of this worthy effort of the saints in the 1st
Ward.
	S. L. City, April 5. 			E. R. SNOW.

	SALT LAKE CITY, March 23rd, 1875.
MISS ELIZA R. SNOW,
	DEAR SISTER:—The 1st Ward Branch of the
United Order commenced about the 1st of Feb-
ruary, to knit women's and girls' stockings and
men's and boys' socks, and other wear. We have


one machine working and when we have pat-
ronage enough we will have more to supply the
demand, and we expect to supply a better arti-
cle, and as cheap as any imported. Will you
please use your influence among the sisters to
sustain us in our Home Industry and in carry-
ing out the counsels of President Brigham.
Young?
		Your Brother in the Gospel,
					J. WARBURTON,
					Bishop of 1st Ward.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	HON. DAVID P. Lowe, Chief Justice of Utah,
arrived Apr. 10, and is stopping at the Walker
House.
	PROF. KARL G. Maeser is to deliver his inter-
esting lecture, "Characteristics of youths of
different ages and nations," under the auspices
of the 12th Ward Literary Association, Friday
evening, Apr. 16. Free admission.
	AT A MEETING of the stockholders of Z. C.
M. I. Saturday afternoon, Apr. 10., a vote was ta-
ken which resulted in Hiram B. Clawson and
Theodore McKean being elected as superin-
tendents of the institution.
	A DENTAL College and infirmary has been
established in this city by Dr. W. H. H. Sharp.
Students desiring to learn dentistry will be
carried through a two years' course of instruc-
tion.
	WE ARE pleased to note the safe return to
her home and friends in this city, of Mrs. Ro-
mania B. Pratt, who has been in attendance at
the Free Medical College for Women, and the
Eye and Ear Infirmary in New York City, for
fourteen months. It was a long time to be ab-
sent from the loved ones, and we hope she finds
them all well, particularly the "darling baby!"
	THE SUBJECT of free schools is vehemently
discussed at present by the "Philomathes" in
this Territory. Whether the establishment
of free schools should prove the result or not,
we hope to see liberal instructions disseminated
throughout the land, wise measures taken and
true principles taught, by which good, thor-
ough, practical educations  may be placed with-
in the reach of all.
	THE LATE general conference, which was
held six days in succession instead of three,
was one of peculiar interest in some respects.
President Brigham Young was present at each
meeting, looking and feeling well. He presid-
ed, and also addressed the conference on sever-
al occasions, one discourse in particular, being
given chiefly for the benefit of the sisters.
Notwithstanding the first four days of the
conference were stormy and disagreeable, there
was a good attendance at the Tabernacle.


﻿A VIEW OF POLYGAMY.

	I do not blame women in the common
course of life for looking upon polygamy, as
it is practiced among the Mormons, with
horror; or for considering it an abomina-
tion. It seemed little less to me once, al-
though I was born of Latter-day Saint par-
entage, and reared in these valleys of the
mountains. At an early age I began read-
ing the works of the church. I thought I
read understandingly, and that I found
things in the Book of Mormon which did
not corroborate the teachings and practices
of the Latter-day Saints. Still it was not
this alone, or principally that made me look
upon polygamy as a very objectionable fea-
ture in our religion. But a few years ago,
our fathers and mothers, and elder brothers
and sisters did not know as much as they
have since learned about living in plurality.


And some of them used sometimes to ap-
pear fretted and miserable over trifling
things, which I, in my ignornce, attributed
to their being in polygamy; just as many
others have done. But for all this, I never,
for one moment in my life, felt to doubt the
truth of Joseph Smith’s being a chosen pro-
phet of the living God. And by and by I
began to realize the great inconsistency of
believing and advocating every portion of
the gospel except one principle, and leaving
that for others to speak and act upon. So I
asked the Lord to make me understand why
polygamy was necessary among His people.
And, true to His promise, “Ask and ye shall
receive,” my eyes were opened and my un-
derstanding quickened, so that I see for my-
self, that no principle pertaining to the gos-
pel was ever of greater importance to the
Saints, than is that of plural marriage in
this dispensation. It seems to me, almost
the greatest item in the plan of salvation at
the present day, for without it, I can see no
possible chance for the redemption of the
world from its sunken and darkened state.
	When the women of the world, those
who wish to be pure and to do good,
come to understand the principle, it will
no longer seem to them a degrading and
loathsome thing, but the exact opposite;
and they will not only be willing but
eager to embrace it. Of this I am sure;
and may the Lord hasten the time, and His
name be glorified.
						MABEL.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	We are still alive in Providence and en-
joying a goodly flow of the Spirit of God
and of our religion. We have had a good
time during the past winter; have not had
many dances, but have had good and well
attended meetings, especially our Society
meetings! I never enjoy myself better
than when attending them. I think if all
the sisters would attend these meetings and
carry with them the Spirit of God, knowing
that they are trying to do their best for
each other and to serve God, it will assur-
edly result in good. Through the past win-
ter I have been reading some of the early
history of the Church. Among other things,
concerning Parley P. Pratt’s imprisonment
and escape. Surely the brethren must have
had great faith in God and He was always
mindful of them. He heard their prayers
and answered them. I feel that He is just
as mindful of us in these days. We cannot
but acknowledge the Hand of God in the
deliverance of Brother Ricks from impris-
onment. We can see that the devil cannot
have it all his own way; especially if the
brethren and sisters are united in offering
up their prayers for the welfare of the
kingdom.
	The Lord will not forget His children as
long as they do not forget Him.
	I will mention that our Relief Society
is arranging for a party some time this
month, the proceeds to be given for the
benefit of our new Hall. I will conclude,
praying God to bless and prosper you in the
noble work of disseminating knowledge.’
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					Elizabeth N. NYE.
	Providence, Apr. 5. 1875.


THERE IS no truth in the report that Jen-
ny Lind is keeping a "singing school;" she
is not a millionaire but is in possession of
sufficient means to pay her board-bills.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿PEOPLE WILL TALK.

			SELECTED.

We may get through the world, but ‘twill be very slow,
If we listen to all that is said as we go;
We’ll be worried and fretted, and kept in a stew,
For meddlesome tongues must have something to do.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know,

If quiet and modest, you’ll have it presumed
That your humble position is only assumed— 
You’re a wolf in sheep’s clothing, or else you’re a fool—
But don’t get excited—keep perfectly cool.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	Oh yes, they must talk you know.

If generous and noble, they’ll vent out their spleen,
You’ll hear some loud hints that you’re selfish and mean;
If upright and honest, and fair as the day,
They’ll call you a rogue in a sly, sneaking way.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

And then, if you show the least boldness of heart,
Or a slight inclination to take your own part,
They’ll call you an upstart, conceited and vain;
But keep straight ahead and don’t stop to explain.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

If threadbare your coat, or old-fashioned your hat,
Some one, of course, will take notice of that,
And hint rather strong that you can't pay your way,
But don’t get excited whatever they say,
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

If you dress in the fashion don’t think to escape
For they criticise them in a different shape.
You’re ahead of your means, or your tailor’s unpaid,
But mind your own busiuess, there’s naught to be made.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

They’ll talk fine before you, but then at your back,
Of venom and slander there’s never a lack;
How kind and polite, in all that they say, 
But bitter as gail when you’re out of the way.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.

The best way to do is to do as you please,
For your mind, if you have one, will then be at ease;
Of course you will meet with all sorts of abuse,
But don’t think to stop them it is of no use.
For people will talk you know, people will talk,
	O yes, they must talk you know.


﻿HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Poor diet and consumption.—A Mass-
achusetts physician says that poor diet tends
to produce consumption.  And that those
who live on “slops” are the most likely to
suffer from it. Wholesome food and pure
air are the remedies for it.
	A SUBSTITUTE FOR TEA.—The best sub-
stitue for tea, the “Herald of Health” says,
is nourishing food and rest when exhausted.
A bowl of rich oatmeal gruel, made with
milk, will serve a better purpose than tea.
Even a bowl of beef tea with bread may at
times be substituted if preferred. Let them
be taken at regular meal times, and then af-
ter eating rest for half an hour, thus giving
the stomach a chance to use the forces of
the system of digestion. Few know the
value of a half hour’s restafter eating. Many
dyspeptics would find it almost a cure for
their troubles.
	APPLES AS FOOD.—An eminent French
physician thinks that the dyspepsia and bil-
ious affections in Paris, have been greatly
decreased by the abundant use of apples as
food. He maintains that this fruit is an ad-
mirable prophylactic and tonic, as well as a
very nourishing and easily digested arti-
cle of food. The “Herald of Health” says
that “the best time to eat apples is soon af-
ter breakfast, so that they may form a part
of the morning meal. They are an almost
sure cure for constipation and liver com-
plaint.”
	THE SEWING MACHINE.—We see articles


occasionally on the hygiene of the sewing
machine. Those who are interested in the
study of health, and have made female dis-
eases a speciality give it as their opinion
that the moderate use of the muscles of the
lower limbs is beneficial in this, as in every
other form of labor, that use strengthens the
organs, and that while the use of half the
body is not so conducive to health as if the
whole frame were exercised, it is certainly
better than no exercise at all, as is also the
case in sewing by hands.  The result of a
series of observations made by eminent
physicians in France and England, has been
in favor of this artificial motive power.
Other European and also American authori-
ties confirm these opinions, especially the
Massachusetts State Board of Health.


[Column 1]
			HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Flavor for Frosting.—In frosting for cakes or
puddings a little lemon juice, tartaric acid or cream
of tartar is a very pleasant addition to the taste,
besides making the frosting much lighter.
	To Preserve cut Flowers.—Fill a saucer with fine
sand, piling it up in the center somewhat, in the
form of a mound.  Moisten the sand and arrange
your flowers in it, and they will keep fresh several 
days.
	Coldslaw.—Yelks of two eggs; a tablespoonful
of cream; a small teaspoonful of mustard; a little
salt; two tablespoonfuls of vinegar.  If cream is
not used, put in a small lump of butter rubbed in a
little flour.  Cut the cabbage very fine; heat the
mixture and pour it on hot.
	Cleaning Oil Painting.—Remove the picture
from the frame, keep a coarse towel over it several
days, until it has drawn all the filthiness from the
picture—pass some linseed oil, which has been a
long time seasoning, over it in the sunlight and the
picture will be purified and as lively as new.
	Venison Steaks.—Cut them from the neck, sea-
son them with pepper and salt.  When the grid-
iron has been well heated over a bed of bright coals,
grease the bars, and lay the steaks upon it. Broil
them well, turning them once, and taking care to
save as much of the gravy as possible. Serve
them up with some currant jelly laid on each steak.
	Cornmeal Pudding.—Two pints meal, one pint
grated bread, one of molasses, one of brown sugar,
one of sour milk, two tablespoonfuls butter, a half
teaspoonful of ginger and two  cinnamon, three
eggs, half a teaspoonful soda; slice soft, juicy ap-
ples, and add one teacupful, if liked; bake half an
hour.  Sauce—cream and sugar.
	Housework Hints.—If stove polish is mixed
with very strong soapsuds, the lustre appears im-
mediately, and the dust of the polish does not fly
around as it usually does.  Dry paint is removed
by dipping a swab with a handle in a strong solu-
tion of oxalic acid.  It softens at once. Water
lime applied with a dry, soft cloth, will give glass
a nice, clear east.
	To cook fruits just right requires care and skill;
apple sauce is a very simple preparation, but, like
almost everything else, must be attended to in
every detail if we would have a nice wholesome
dish.  It depends entirely on the kind or quality of
the apple whether it should be cooked a short or a
long time; fine grained apples generally make the
best sauce or pies.  Never sweeten stewed fruits
until they are quite soft and pulpy, and then cook
but a few minutes afterward.
	Fricassee of Fowls Brown.—Broil as for pot-
pie, then fry slowly in butter until browned;
toast bread and lay it on the platter under the
chicken. Pour a little of the broth in the spider
with the browned butter, thicken with flour, season
to suit, and pour it over the chicken; or if you
want it very nice, add the butter for the gravy to

[Column 2]
the butter in which the chicken was browned;
dredge with flour, add salt and pepper, brown well,
and lastly add the chicken broth.
	A Good Cake when Eggs are Scarce.—One pint
of cream, one pint of sugar, yolks of three eggs,
soda, if cream is sour, and soda and cream of tar-
tar if cream is sweet; flavor to taste; flour enough
to form a moderately stiff batter; bake in a loaf if
you want a plain cake, or in layers if you want a
jelly cake or cocoanut cake; make stiffer and put in
two cups of fresh, best currants, and you have a 
nice, plain fruit cake.  This cake receipt should be
named 'hard times cake,' as it is valuable to a per-
son whose supply of butter, sugar and eggs is limi-
ted.
	Novel Way of Making Jelly Cake.—Take the
whites of six eggs, one cup white sugar, same of
flour, tablespoonful butter, two tablespoonfuls
sweet milk, two teaspoons cream tartar, and one of
soda.  Bake in a large oblong dripping pan, so the
cake will be very thin.  Meanwhile stir another
batch, making just the same, with the exception of
using the yelks instead of the whites; when both
are done, spread while warm, between with jelly or
preserve juice of any kind, put together; bring the
largest side of the cake toward you, and roll imme-
diately; or cut in four or eight parts, put together
alternately, putting jelly between each layer, and
frost lightly over the top.


INTERESTING PARAGRAPHS. 

	WIVES.—Women should know that no
beauty has any lasting charm but the inward
one of the mind, and that a gracefulness in
their manner is more engaging than that of
their person; that modesty and meekness
are the true and lasting ornaments; for she
who has these is qualified, as she ought to
be, for the management of a family, for the
education of children, for the affection of
her husband, and submitting to a prudent
way of living.  These only are charms that
render wives amiable, and give them the
best  title to our respect.
	A “Hoosier” reporter says: “If he speaks
of things as they are people get angry. If
he glosses over or smooths down the rough
points, he is bribed.  If he calls things by
their right names, he is unfit for the posi-
tion of a reporter.  If he doesn't furnish
his readers with jokes, he is a mullet.  If
he does he is a rattlehead, lacking stability.
If he condemns the wrong, he is a good fel-
low, but lacks discretion.  If he lets wrongs
and injuries go unmentioned, he is a coward.
If he exposes a public man, he does it to
gratify spite—is the tool of a clique, or be-
longs to the "outs."  If he indulges in per-
sonalities, he is a blackguard If he does
riot his paper is dull and insipid."
	ARAB INGENUITY.—A gentleman who
rode his own mare in the course of an east-
ern tour, asked his Arab attendant if he
was quite sure she always got her allowance.
"Oh, yes," he replied; "my countrymen of-
ten steal from one another, and rob their
friends’ horses, but I can always find out if
your mare has been cheated;” “How?’ “I
always put some pebbles in with the barley
—seven or eight—and count exactly how
many I put in. The mare never eats the
pebbles, with it.  If I find the pebbles short
in the morning, I have hard words, and
they cannot tell how I know, so they give
up cheating her."
	AN INTELTIGENT EQUINE.—After the
death of Crawton, the milkman who was
frozen to death on Woodward avenue early
Sunday morning, his brother determined to
carry on the business, but at the outset was
met by a discouraging obstacle in the fact


that he had no list of his brother's custom-
ers.  Suddenly a happy thought occurred to
him. He got into the wagon, with his cans
and tickets, on Monday morning, and giving
free rein to the little black pony formerly
driven by his brother, was gratified to find
that the intelligent animal made the long
circuit without hesitation, and stopped at
every house where his master had been in
the habit of supplying milk.—Detroit Post.
	A NEW Orleans paper tells of a printer
who, when his fellow workmen went out to
drink beer during the working hours, put
in the bank the exact amount which he
would have spent if he had gone out to
drink. He thus kept his resolution for five
years. He then examined his bank account
and found that he had on deposit $521.86.
In the five years he had not lost a day from
ill health.  Three out of five of his fellow
workmen had in the meantime, become
drunkards, were worthless and were dis-
charged.  The water drinker then bought
out the printing-office, went on enlarging
the business, and in twenty years from the
time he began to put by his money, he was
worth $100,000.
	LOVE OF CHILDREN—If I were to choose
among all gifts and qualities, that which on
the whole, makes life pleasantest, I should
select the love of children. No circum-
stance can render this world wholly a soli-
tude to one who has this possession. 'If I
value myself in anything,' said the lonely
Hawthorne, 'it is on having a smile that
children love.' They are such prompt little
beings, too; they require so little prelude.
Hearts are won in two minutes at that frank
period, and so long as you are true to them,
they will be true to you. They have a
hearty appetite for gifts, no doubt, but it is
not for these that they love the giver. Take
the wealth of the world and lavish it with
counterfeited affection; I will win all chil-
dren's hearts away from you by empty-
handed love.  In visiting a house where
there are children, I do not like to take
them presents; it is better to forego the
pleasure of the giving than to divide the
welcome between yourself and the gift.
Let that follow after you are gone.—T. W.
Higginson.
	THE THIEF'S VICTORY.—A good many
years ago one of the most notorious thieves
in the United States had a confidential con-
versation with a gentleman who is now one
of our most efficient detectives, and express-
ed a desire to reform.  "Why do you wish
to live so much on the square?" said the
gentleman. "Because," replied the thief,
"I have a wife and children to whom I am
very much attached; they have no idea of
the mode in which I am making my living;
the children are growing up, and are begin-
ning to wonder why I leave home so often,
and what I do; and if ever I am to reform
now is the time." The gentleman warmly
approved the idea, and to further it, loaned
the man several hundred dollars with which
to begin an honest business.  The reformed
man at once broke off all his associations,
lived perfectly honest, would have no dis-
honest person call on him, devoted himself
for years closely to business, raised his fam-
ily respectably, did a great many acts of
unostentatious charity, and died not long
since esteemed by all who knew him. His
children are doing well and are highly re-
spectable.  The money advanced was long
since repaid.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"SAY, Smith, where have you been for a
week back?” “I haven’t been anywhere
for it. I haven't got a weak back."


﻿			FAITH.

	BY A MEMBER OF THE RETRENCHMENT
ASSOCIATION OF THE FIRST WARD S. L. CITY.

	Faith is the first principle in the religion
of Jesus Christ. Therefore without faith it
is impossible to find God or to please Him.
It is the moving cause of all our actions, and
by diligently seeking after God, we exer-
cise faith or belief in reward for all the good
we do, and that if we do no good we merit
no reward.
	The faith that we enjoy is the same as
that enjoyed by the former day Saints; thus,
we understand our duties towards God and
each other the same as the ancient Saints
did.
	When true faith is planted in good soil, it
grows and gathers strength; and this living,
growing faith is that which begets know-
ledge, wisdom, power and wealth. Because
of our faith, we search for those things we
wish to possess, and our pursuit will be, as
Christ said, according to our faith. Faith
in God and in His gospel is that which
prompts men and women to endure trials;
through this men leave their homes, wives
and children, and travel in foreign lands
and upon the islands of the sea. Not that
they expect to receive money for their la-
bors, but the faith they have in God, and the
desires they have of doing good for His
kingdom, in which they have hopes of re-
ceiving a glorious inheritance.
	Joseph Smith, the Prophet of God, by
faith endured many hardships and finally
suffered martyrdom, for the faith he had in
the goodness and power of God to restore all
things to those who serve him. By faith
thousands of Latter-day Saints have been
gathered from different parts of the earth,
leaving all that was dear to them, save their
hope in Christ, and crossing the mighty
ocean in search of a country they had never
seen nor known anything about. By faith
they travel and by faith they obtain many
promises, which, through their steadfast-
ness to the faith, will all be fulfilled.
	Jesus said, "The just shall live by faith."
by our faith we progress from the first prin-
ciples of the Gospel to the greater; by it
the sick are healed, the blind see, the deaf
hear, the lame walk. Without this kind of
faith no one can find out the true God or
the true way to salvation. Yet with it, we
suffer all things cheerfully with the hope of
receiving a just reward in the future.
					EMILY HILTON.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Mary White of Braintree, Vt., cel-
ebrated her one-hundredth birthday last
week, five generations together at tea.
	MISS Marian I. H. Allen, of Shrewsbury,
who was re-elected a member of the School
Committee for three years, has just comple-
ted her fiftieth term of school.
	MRS. Lucinda Parker of North Reading,
Mass., will be one hundred years of age
next October. Save a little deafness, she
has full use of her faculties.
	MISS Mattie Strickland, daughter of Hon.
Randolf Strickland ex-member of Congress
from Michigan, is delivering lectures in
Iowa upon the Suffrage question.
	MRS. James K. Polk has presented the
Tennessee Historical Society with a pen
made from an eagle's quill, dropped by an
eagle in Virginia, and presented to Presi-
dent Polk in 1845.
	A MOVEMENT for the higher education of


women is making rapid progress in Italy.
The Princess Margaret of Italy has placed
herself at the head of it, and attends every
week a reunion in Rome for its encourage-
ment. Her example has been followed by
many Italian ladies of rank.
	MISS Augusta Moore, who lately testified
in a certain famous case, according to the
New York Tribune could out-talk the law-
yers, bullied them on the cross-examination,
instructed the Judge, and came out of the
conflicts triumphant. Her cordial contempt
for the man against whom she testified was
only equaled by her inflexible determina-
tion to free her mind, no matter what the
lawyers might do or say to hinder.
	MRS. Mary Blake Clapp, of Dorchester,
died at Warwick, recently. She was born
in Warwick and has distinguished herself
by her acts of benevolence towards the peo-
ple of her native town. The day she was
eighty years old she gave to the Unitarian
Society one thousand dollars. Since, she
has given them one thousand more. She has
given one thousand dollars to the town for
the care and repair of the cemetery, also a
large number of volumes of books to the
town library. Mrs. Clapp also, a few years
since, gave $4000 to "Lincoln University," 
in Chester County, Pa., to found two scolar-
ships for the benefit of colored students in
that institution.
	THE school for girls established by the
third wife of the Khedive of Egypt, which
is one the greatest innovations the country
of the Pharaohs has ever seen, is turning
out a great success. The lady bought a
large house in a thickly peopled locality,
near the dancing dervishes, erected around
it a quadrangle of spacious buildings, hand-
ed them over to the education department,
but herself defrays the whole cost of main-
tenance. The school is free to all, and
when it had been open only four months
there were 206 boarders and 100 day schol-
ars, all Arabs or slaves. They discard the
oriental vail, and are dressed in frocks, pin-
afores and shoes, in English fashion; and
they sit, not squatting on the ground, but at
desks.


THE latest census returns show the ex-
istence of more trades and professions
among women than one would suppose pos-
sible. Beside women farmers, there are 45
female stock-herders, 5 barbers, 24 dentists,
5 hostlers, 3 professional hunters and trap-
pens, 5 lawyers, 525 physcians, 97 clergywo-
men, 7 sextons, 10 canal women, 129 dray-
women, 1 pilot, 4 gas stokers, 33 gunsmiths,
7 gunpowder-makers, 16 ship riggers, with
a large number of artizans, mechanics, in-
ventors, telegraph operators and teachers
of navigation.
	A QUARTER-inch rod of the best steel will
sustain 9,000 pounds before breaking; soft
steel, 3,000 pounds; iron wire, 9,000; cast
iron, 1,000 to 3,000 pounds; iron wire, 9,000; cast
iron, 1,000 to 3,000; copper wire, 3,000; sil-
ver, 2,000; gold, 2,500; tin, 3,000, cast zinc,
160; cast lead 50; milled lead; 200. Of
wood, box and locust the same size will
hold 1,200 pounds; toughest ash, 1,000, elm,
800; beech, cedar, white oak, pitch pine,
500; chestnut and maple, 650; poplar, 400.
Wood which will bear a weight a minute or
two will break with two-thirds of the force
acting a long time. A rod of iron is about
ten times as strong as a hemp cord. A rope
an inch in diameter will bear about two and a
half tons; but in practice it is not safe to sub-
ject it to a strain of more than about a ton.
Half an inch in diameter, the strength will
be one quarter as much; a quarter of an inch,
one-sixteenth as much, and so on.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.

	POSSIBLY you never heard of a Mr. Ris-
tori, but he lives and moves and has his
being as much as she does.
	THE hardest thing to hold in this world is
an unruly tongue. It beats a hot smooth-
ing-iron and a kicking horse considerably.
	A CERTAIN editor is so prejudiced that
when he writes about the difficulty in Mon-
tenegro he insists on calling it 'Montenig-
ger.'
	THE JULIET of Miss Lilian Conway is
pronounced a great success; her mother,
Mrs. T. B. Conway taking the part of Ro-
meo.
	WOMAN CANNOT equal man in a variety
of ways—for instance in loafing round the
store, in a country post-office, or in the orig-
inality of her stupidity.
	COOL piece of business—Mr. Bergh ar-
resting New York coachmen for not blanket-
ing their horses. Kind of a nice bergh
way of doing things.
	"I GUESS I'll take this book," remarked a
Chicago lady to the clerk of a bookstore;
"It's got twice as much gold leaf on the
cover as any of the rest."
	"WHAT'S jography, Bill?" "It's a tellin'
of forrin lands that we know nothin' about
by cute chaps that's never seen 'em." Bill
got a Government situation.
	A ROCHESTER flirt had an offer of mar-
riage some time since, and rushing to the
hall she called up  stairs: "Mother! am I
engaged to anybody now?"
	A WISCONSIN editor says: "Owing to the
death of the editor of this journal there will
be no leader to-morrow, but look out for an
old ripper the day after.
	"IDIOT!" exclaimed a lady coming out of
the theatre one evening as a gentleman ac-
cidentally stepped on her trailing skirt.
"Which one of us?" blandly replied the
man.
	"YOUR feet are not very stylish," said a
man to his friend, whose feet were covered
with bunions. "No, not stylish; but ex-
ceedingly nobby," was the good-natured re-
ply.
	"A PLACE for everything, and everything
in its place," as the old woman said when
she stowed the broom, bellows, balls of
yarn, two doll-babies, curry-comb, three cats
and a gridiron into an old oven.
	"MR. Smith's compliments to Mr. Brown,
thinks it unnecessary that his piggs should
go through his grounds." Answer—"Mr.
Brown's compliments to Mr. Smith, thinks
it unnecessary to spell pigs with two g's.
	AN Irish peasant being asked why he
permitted his pig to take up quarters with
his family, made an answer abounding with
satirical naivete: "Why not? Doesn't the
place afford every convenience that a pig
can require?"
	IT certainly looks a little odd when a mar-
ried couple are visiting at a friend's house
to see his wife accidentally lay her hand
upon a coal shovel, and the husband, as if
by instinct, dodge behind the nearest ob-
ject that can afford him shelter.
	JUST as a train started out on the Great
Western road the other day, a woman leaned
forward and called to her husband, who was
ten feet away: "Say, Simon, did you wash
your feet and change your socks?" "No,
by swan!—forgot all about it," he replied.
"Well," she said, as she leaned back, "I

[Column 2]
feel it in mybones that there's going to be
a smash-up afore we get to London, and if
you are killed I'll just pretend I didn't know
ye."


ADVICE BY FLORENCE NIGHTIN-
			GALE.

	The following extracts from a letter written
by this esteemed lady to a correspondent,
will be read with interest:
	"I could not do what you asked me to do
in your kind letter of July 12th—viz., give
you information about my own life; al-
though, if I could, it would be to show how
a woman of very ordinary ability has been
led, by strange and unaccustomed paths,
to do God's service. I have worked hard,
very hard, that is all; though being natur-
ally a very shy person, most of my life has
been very distasteful to me. I have no pe-
culiar gifts, and I can honestly assure any
young lady, if she will but try to walk, she
will soon be able to run the "appointed
course." But then she must first learn to
walk, and so, when she runs, she must
run with patience. (Most people do not
even try to walk.) But I would also say to
the young ladies who are called to any pecu-
liar vocation, qualify yourselves for it as a
man does for his work. Do not think you
can undertake it otherwise. No one should
attempt to teach the Greek language until
he is master of the language; and this he
can become only by hard study; and if you
are called to man's work, do not exact a
woman’s privileges—the privileges of inac-
curacy, of weakness, ye muddle-heads.
Submit yourselves to the rules of business,
as men do, by which alone you can make
business succeed. 
	It has happened to me more than once to
be told by women, "Yes, but you had per-
sonal freedom." Nothing can well be fur-
ther from the truth.  I question whether
God has ever brought any one through more
difficulties and contradictions that I have
had. But to women I would say, look upon
your work, whether it be an accustomed
or an unaccustomed work, as upon a trust
confided to you. This will keep you alike
from discouragement and presumption; from
idleness and from overtaxing yourself. I
have been nine years confined, a prisoner,
to my room from illness, and overwhelmed
with business. This must be my excuse
for not having answered your questions be-
fore. Nothing, with the approval of my
own judgment, has been made public before,
or I would send it.  I have a strong objec-
tion to sending my own likeness, for the
same reason. Some of the most valuable
works the world has ever seen, we know not
who is the author of.  I do not urge this ex-
ample upon others; but it is a deep-seated
religious scruple in myself.  I do not wish
my name to remain, nor my likeness.  If I
could really give the lessons of my life to
my countrywomen, the lessons of my mis-
takes as well as of the rest, I would; but for
this there is no time. I would only say
work—work in silence at first—in silence for
years—it will not be time wasted. Perhaps
in all your life it will be the time you will
afterwards find to have been best spent."


LESS than one hundred years ago, when
Dr. Franklin was Postmaster General, the
whole number of post offices in the United
States was 75; the length of post roads 1875
miles; the revenue $37,935; and the ex-
penditures $32,140. Now the whole number
of offices is 33,224; the length of post-roads
255,210 miles; the revenue $22,996,741,57,
and the expenditures $29,084,845,67.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	DR. Glenn, said to be the largest farmer
in California sold his last year's crop of
grain for nearly $500,000, gold coin.
	THE consumption of ice has greatly in-
creased in this country during the past five
years. As illustrative of this fact, it is sta-
ted that in 1854, 300,000 tons of ice met the
demands of the people, while now one firm
has put up 880,000, and other parties have
packed as much more.
	BOSTON has been panic-stricken on ac-
count of the scarcity of water, and not with-
out reason, for the water in Lake Cochitu-
ate has been 14 feet below the highest wa-
ter mark, and several inches below the out-
let. The city got water only through the 
agency of two powerful steam pumps run at
the expense of $800 per day.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND 
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
		Largest Assortment in Utah.
He has removed his Furniture from Main St. to his three
			storey Brick Store.
FIRST SOUTH ST., 1/2 BLOCK WEST OF CO-OP. CORNER.
				CLUB RATES
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the 
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, 		-	-	-	-	- 	  26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-   	  34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 3.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1875.		No. 23


For the Exponent.
			FORGIVE ME.
	How often  we are reminded in our expe-
rience in life, of the necessity of thinking
twice before speaking once; and as often we
hear of troubles that are the result of hasty
replies, and a non-fulfillment of agreements
not properly reconsidered.  Excuse me
and Forgive Me this time, is the term gen-
erally used.  Just as though that was the
cure-all for the great wrong committed.
Please excuse me, and thank you, are very
pleasant English, but not very remunerative
when that is the only principle and interest
left you to pay the demand made for the er-
rors committed by another.  When people pay
as per telegram a dollar for every ten words,
they will say what they mean, and mean
what they say.  But they are not alone the
recipients of their own folly.  I'll Try has
often been the victim of their unpaid for—
unmeasured sentences, and having felt the
sting, can understand how others feel.

		"If you your lips
		Would keep from slips,
	Five things observe with care;
		Of whom you speak
		To whom you speak
	And how, and when, and where."

	Many at the last stages of their earthly
being try to mend in one short sentence,
"Forgive Me," the wrong that has been en-
dured a life time.  We may Forgive seventy
times seven but can we forget? The scar,
the impression is there indelibly stamped,
as a brilliant reminder of our folly. Oh!
how cruel the thought to leave a bleeding
heart to be healed within the grave! Jus-
tice says pay the debt, endure the pang
from the gash we ourselves have made, and
not leave the innocent our wrongs to bear;
better if possible to erase the impression
and obtain forgiveness.
						I'LL TRY.


THE HEAD OF THE  TABLE.

	In Queen Elizabeth's time the fashion
came into vogue of placing the principle
joints and pieces of meat at the head of the
table, above the salt, in order that the chief
guests might regale their eyes with the
promise of good cheer before them, and al-
so be conveniently served to the choicest
cuts. This custom involved the necessity of
carving the meats after they had reached
the table; therefore the ladies were invited
to sit at the head of the board, that they
might perform the services which before
had been delegated to the professional car-
ver. It was thus from no desire to com-
pliment the fair sex that woman, in the be-
gining, was promoted to the most honorable
place at the table. It was for the selfish
convenience of her lord, and not for her own
dignity, that the position was accorded to
her, and as, in medieval society, she minis-
tered to her guests by preparing dishes for
their enjoyment, often bearing them to the
table herself, so she now, in the capacity of
carver, continued in the rank of servitor.
But with the tact which is her distinguish-
ing characteristic she has gradually conver-
ted the carver's stool into a throne of state
and assumed the right to preside over the


company through an office which originally
authorized her only to help them to food.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE aggregate appropriations for the next
year, as made by the retiring Congress, are
$175,504,205.  About $7,000,000 less than
for 1874-5.
	MR. and Mrs. Dearborn Prescott of Graf-
ton, aged 70, died on the 16th of February,
of pneumonia, on the same bed, and within
eight minutes of the same time.
	THE NEW YORK city debt after the deduc-
tion of all the temporary debt, the debt in-
curred on the assessment of betterments,
and of the sinking fund, is still $115,000,
000, or 10 per cent. of the valuation of the
city.
	DURING 1874, 59 centenarians and nona-
genarians died in New Hampshire.  Of this
number twenty-six were men and thirty-
three were women.  The oldest was 106
years, the youngest 90.  Four were upwards
of 100, and the average was 93.2 years.
	AN EAST Colebrook man has in his house
an old fashioned, straight-backed rocking-
chair, which has been in daily family use
for 104 years, without the basket seat ever
having been renewed, although it has had
one new pair of rockers put on.  Furniture
isn't made in that kind of style now-a-
days.
	PERHAPS the strangest valentine for the
year was that received by a young lady in
Troy, N. Y., who on opening a box which
came by express, found in it a cow's heart
pierced with a golden arrow of elegantman-
ufacture, set with jewels, and estimated to
be worth $75.
	John W. Currier, of Alton, is the possess-
er of a sleigh 103 years old.  It has a back
as high as an old fashioned one-story house,
and is roomy enough to have taken all the
human passengers in the ark for a sleigh-
ride.  It is in good repair, Mr. Currier hav-
ing just had it well painted.
	THE water in the flume of a grist mill at
Franklin froze in a solid block at one time
last winter.  The flume is six feet high,
eight feet wide and fifty feet long. An at-
tempt to thaw it out by burning wood was
unsuccessful.  The ice on the Merrimac
at that place was reported four feet thick.
	A TRAIN of cars on the Illinois Central
railroad encountered a flock of wild turkeys,
the other day, and they began to fly directly
in front of the engine.  The conductor sta-
tioned himself on the pilot, and, when the
train caught up with the flock, he seized a
22-pound gobbler by the leg.  The bird was
so strong that the conductor had the utmost
difficulty in retaining his hold of the en-
gine, but he finally conquered. Half a doz-
en other turkeys were knocked dead by the
smoke-stack.


At a recent wedding in Ohio, the minis-
ter was about to salute the bride, when she
stayed him with, "No Mister; I've give up
them vanities now."


For the EXPONENT.
			FAREWELL.

	How many thoughts and feelings are asso-
ciated with this word!
	It is inexpressibly painful to me to be
obliged to bid Farewell even for a short
space of time, to a dear friend; there are so
many things to be feared, so much doubt
and uncertainty how, and when, and under
what circumstances we may meet again;
and, if going any distance, there is such a
variety of fears of dangers, or accidents by
the way: How many friends part gaily, fully
expecting to meet soon—and perhaps, years
elapse, or, more even than that, death it-
self may snatch one away and the separation
or meeting is indefinitely extended to an-
other sphere!  How careful friends should
be to part, though even for a very short
space of time, with good feelings, kind
wishes, and tender words, that there may be
no regrets—no recriminations—nothing to
embitter grief that could possibly have
been avoided, should we never meet again.
Therefore, we should never defer an opportu-
nity of doing a kind act, or speaking an
encouraging word to a friend, remembering,
how often we are called upon to part with
them suddenly.  I suppose it is this last
parting which makes us attach so much
solemnity to this simple word—we can
scarcely use it in common phrase without
feeling the significance it has in connection
with the final parting of friends.  Indeed,
I do not care to use "GOOD BY," for the
same reason, and would much prefer "good
morning" or "evening" in a usual way, they
do not seem to imply so much time, or even
so much intervening space.
	"Farewell," says the young man, to fa-
ther, mother, sister and brother as he goes
forth, perhaps for the first time to battle
with the world alone. O, the aching hearts
he leaves behind him, and the doubts and
fears as to his ultimate success, and how
seldom do all meet again in the same pleas-
ant and unbroken home circle! But the oc-
casions on which this word is used are too
many, varied, and complicated, for me to
even glance at them here.
	Friends part expecting to meet the
same as when they take each other by the
hand to go their separate ways, and per-
chance ere they meet again something
transpires to change the current of their
affections and they can never be to each
other what they were—what they have
been.
	But most agonizing of all, when we must
lay away our dear ones, and say the last
farewell to those fondly loved!  Happy for
us, if we have nothing to reproach ourselves
with—if we have been really and truly all to
them that nature and affection could require.
And we should reflect seriously and strive
so to live, that, whether our parting be for a
few days, months or years, or whether we
must part until the Resurrection Morn, we
can feel in our inmost hearts, we have been
faithful in the fulfillment of our duties and
obligations, and, also, in ministering cheer-
fully to the wants, wishes and happiness of
those we loved, whether relatives or friends.
								M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
		MAY TIME.
Sweet May! Ah most welcome ever!
	But dearest of all times to-day;
For—somebody—bold and clever,
	Is going to call this way.
Bold, for he asked me something,
	I should not have thought he dared,
(I couldn't answer that's one thing,
	For indeed I was not prepared.)
Clever for smiling and saying,
	In such a delightful way,
Those dear words—Ah! how I am staying!
	I was thinking of dear, sunny May.
My feelings? Ah, you'd be above them.
	At least too much so to betray!
You were never a "first time in love" then—
	I mean deep in love—with sweet May.
Some like the grave winter for sporting,
	Some fancy the summer most gay;
But for sentiment, love, and for courting,
	We choose—that is I choose sweet May.
I said he should know by my greeting,
	If one, or divided our lot;
Now I have no idea of cheating,
	I couldn't seem glad I were not.
Of all apprehensions I'll rid him—
	He is here! now what shall I say?
O! Welcome, sweet welcome I'll bid him—
	Of course I mean, welcome sweet May.
								LULA.


R. S. REPORTS.
		FARMINGTON, March 18th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking in quite time that
some one of the sisters should write and let
the readers of our valued EXPONENT know
how we are getting along. We meet every
two weeks; although our business operations
are small, we try to encourage one another
in the good work in which we are engaged.
I feel as one of my sisters has said that we
need a great deal of charity one toward an-
other, we are all so differently constituted;
I feel that the strong must bear the infirmi-
ties of the weak, and try to encourage them
by mild and gentle words, and by perform-
ing little acts of kindness towards them.
Our Young Ladies' Association is getting
along well under the good management of
their president, Sister Lucy Clark. I feel
thankful that we have the privilege of be-
ing organized into Societies and Associa-
tions, for they are calculated to be a great
benefit to us if we enter into them with
the right spirit. I pray God our Heavenly
Father that His blessing may rest upon all
that are striving to do His will and keep
His commandments. I have been a con
stant reader of the EXPONENT from the
first, and am happy to say that I find it
steadily improving; I should be lost with-
out it. If you find this worthy of a place
in the EXPONENT please insert it.
					S. J. HOLMES,
			President Relief Society.
		EPHRAIM, SANPETE CO., April 4th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ephraim Branch of the Relief Socie-
ty held their Yearly Meeting on Thursday,
April 1st, 1875, being six years since our or-
ganization which was on the 1st of April,
1869, by Bishop Canute Petersen. Presi-
dent Mrs. S. A. Petersen, thanked the sis-
ters for their willingness to respond to the
calls made upon them. The yearly report
showed that the sisters had donated seven
hundred and ten dollars and fifty-three
cents. Three hundred of which, having
been donated in Sunday eggs, will be sent
to Denmark to assist the poor in emigrating
from the old country. The poor at home
have been assisted according to their needs.
[Column 2]
	The donations of the sisters are seldom in
money, that being a very scarce commodity
here, but in eggs, butter, pork and cheese,
which are sold to the best advantage, also
remnants and scraps either cotton or woolen,
which the sisters make up into Quilts;
some are sold, some loaned to the poor dur-
ing the winter, four were made for the
brethren who went to St. George, to work
on the Temple. The amount of cheese made
was 766lbs., 80lbs. of which were sent to the
Temple at St. George. The sisters are uni-
ted. We are blessed in having a good and
wise President, Sister S. A. Petersen. We
wish to express our indignation and thor-
ough contempt for the man (?) who commit-
ted such an outrage on our beloved Presi
dent. Probably he was not shrewd enough
to see it was only making President Young
doubly dear to us. It is but another bond
of union between Brother Brigham and the
Saints. A crown of glory for the gray hairs
of our Prophet. Whom may God bless
forever.
		With respect, your sister,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG,
							Secretary.
	GRANTSVILLE, TOOELE CO., April 13th.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request of President M. A. Hunter, I
send a report of our Branch of the Relief
Society.
	Secretary's report for the year ending
April 1st, 1875:
	To St. George Temple,......$ 40 00
	To Emigration Fund,.........   91 18
	To the Poor,.......................   66 42
						  $197 60
	Balance in Treasury,.........    54 49
				Total,.........$252 09
	None have been neglected who have been
in need of the necessaries or comforts of
life.
	At our last meeting there were present
by invitation, Bishops Rowberry and W. G.
Young also Elder Wm. Leem our excellent
Sunday School Superintendent. Bro. Young
said he felt like attending R. S. meetings[-]
he did not believe that women were only to
be looked at. Said the sisters were doing
what President Young had failed to do, in
putting down round dancing. That the
Retrenchment Society was helping. He
felt the sisters would be a blessing in help-
ing the brethren to bring about a reforma-
tion in drunkenness. Spoke of the store
Sister Snow and others intended to estab-
lish in S. L. City for the sale of home manu-
factured straw and millinery goods.
	Bro. Lee commended the excellent order
in which our secretary, Mary Cook, kept her
books. Advised the reading of good books.
	Bishop Rowberry spoke very encourag-
ingly and gave the sisters excellent advice.
Said he always felt to sustain the Society,
was glad the young ladies were willing to
assist the brethren in putting down round
dances, to say the least the immense strain
on the system was very injurious to the
delicate structure of the female form, Ad-
vised us to do as little harm and all the good
we could.
	The members of the Society manifest an
excellent feeling.
					CORRESPONDENT.
	At the Semi-Monthly meeting of the Sen-
ior and the Junior Co-operative Retrenchment
Association, held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Apr. 17th, 1874, Counsel-
or Mrs. Zina D. Young presided; President
[Column 3]
Mrs. M. I Horne being absent on a visit in-
to the country.
	After the regular exercises and the read-
ing of the minutes by the different secreta-
ries from the various wards, Mrs. Zina D.
Young addressed the congregation upon
HOME INDUSTRIES, the course necessary to
be pursued in order to sustain them, encour-
aged all to be energetic in these matters.
Counselor Miss E. R. Snow followed, speak-
ing upon punctuality; the cultivation and
practice of it; gave a brief sketch of the adja-
cent settlements,the pleasure she felt in the
progress they were making,called the atten-
of those present to her bonnet, which
was made and presented to her by the la-
dies in Ogden, and of which she felt truly
proud: spoke in regard to sustaining do-
mestic productions, remarked that had it
not been for the increase of faith, union, hu-
mility, zeal and energy which had been the
result of these organizations it would have
been more difficult to lead out in the direc-
tion now indicated by President Young.
Counselor E. Howard bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, especially
the order of CELESTIAL MARRIAGE.
	Counselors E. P. Snow and Zina D. Young,
and Mrs. E. S. Barney each spoke on the
measires now being taken to sustain the
HOME INDUSTRIES and showed some speci-
mens of flowers collars stockings etc. of
home work.
	After the close of the meeting, some la-
dies were introduced, who were strangers
here, travelers on their way home from
California; they manifested a warm interest
in the movements of the people here and
wished them success.


A SYNOPSIS

OF REMARKS, BY SISTER ELIZA R. SNOW,
	TO THE YOUNG LADIES' RETRENCHMENT
	ASSOCIATION OF THE 16th WARD—

	I am pleased to see so many present. We
have a mission to perform or we should not
be here. Are we trying to perform that
mission? We do not, any of us, know what
we can accomplish until we are tried, what
powers we possess until they are called in-
to requisition. I say to all my sisters, strive
to be great and mighty in doing the work
that God has given you. When I first en-
tered this church I made up my mind I
would never refuse to do any thing
that I should be called upon to do; and
at the organization of your society there
was one young woman who made the same
resolution. I asked her the other day if she
had kept her promise, and she answered
yes. Well, that young woman shall be blest
—the spirit of darkness shall not enter her
heart, she will be blest to do a good work in
the Kingdom of our God. Young sisters be
punctual in attending your meetings; moth-
ers help your daughters to come to meeting.
I know these meetings were organized by
the power of the Holy Ghost through Presi-
dent Young! The key will soon be turned,
and angels will again visit the earth. I
want to tell my young sisters a few things
that they can do in a united capacity; do
you know that you possess the power to in-
fluence the young men for evil or for good?
Do not depend upon your parents nor your
future husbands for salvation; there are few
young men now-a-days who will prove sav-
iors, you will have to go in groups, to the few
who are worthy. Joseph Smith said (and
he knew by revelation) that there were
more good women than men on earth; that
proves the wisdom of plurality. Girls, mar-
ry good, noble men. I don't care if they are


old men if they are men of God. It has
been said that our sons and daughters should
be prophets and prophetesses. Where is the
young lady or gentleman who dare to rise
up and prophesy in the name of God? I of-
ten think, as a people of God we are not
half so wide a-wake to our work as the spir-
its of darkness are to the work of opposing.
I am ashamed of the people of God in many
instances. It requires a firm will and a
strong determination to do right, to enter
the gate of Heaven.  Paul said the spirit
was made subject to vanity.  Do you realize
you have a work to do to help purify Zion,
and that it will take union to accomplish it,
and to roll on the Kingdom of God? Be
firm in your religious duties, seek after
truth, and don't mind making yourself look
conspicuous. The speaker then related a
vision seen by Bro. Solomon Angel of St.
George, given to him before President
Young started home from the south. She
continued, seek unto the Lord for wisdom;
there are prophets and prophetesses in our
midst, will the spirit not impart the same to
the young as to the old now as in the early rise
of the church? When I first joined this church
I could tell a sister or a brother when ever I
met one, but how is it now? I cannot tell
whether it is a brother, sister, Gentile, Jew,
or what ever. I should like to see the time
again when I could tell a sister when I see
her. Instead of our being a peculiar people,
we are drifting after the world. God's peo-
ple were a peculiar people.  I want to know
how many young ladies have stamina enough
to comply with the request I am going to
make. As Eve led out in the evil, why
should she not be the first in doing good"
President Young has forbidden his family
to indulge in round dances; now if you
make resolutions, adhere to them.  I think
you are trying to do right. I don't want
one person to vote unless she has stami-
na to keep sacred ther promise. These
round dances were originated by the adver-
sary to lead to evil. A vote was then called
for all who would not participate in those
dances to manifest it by the uplifted hand.
She then said God bless you who have voted!
And he will bless you. We have hundreds
of young ladies who have taken this vote.
We are living in the last dispensation, the
wheels of time are rolling on, the nations of
the earth are ready to break up.  Mothers
in Israel, I bless you. I bless my young
sisters. I say to you mothers throw an in-
fluence around your sons and daughters for
good.  It fills my heart with joy to meet
with you, and I would enjoin upon you to
meet together often—it is of the greatest 
importance. I am greatly interested in the
young people. The Bible says, seek first
the Kingdom of God—how many of us
have made it our first duty?  I will leave it
for each one to answer for herself.  Wake
up my sisters, myself as well, and let us be
Saints in very deed. God bless you, Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿Absent-Mindedness.  A gentleman called
on a lady and was told by the servant she
was not at home.  As he turned to go out
he caught a glimpse of her head in a mirror
through a half open door.  An hour after-
wards he called on another friend and found
the lady there; "I have just been to your
house" said he "but had not the pleasure of
seeing you."—"Indeed I'm sorry; but I
went out in great haste on business." "In
such haste I presume that you left your head
behind you, for I saw it in the glass."—
"Did you? It is very possible I am so absent-
minded."


COMMITTEE on ways and means—Wives.


FLOWERS.

	EVERY good deed that we do is not only
a present pleasure, but a prop for the future.
	BEST of all is it to preserve everything
in a pure, still heart, and let there be for
every pulse a thanksgiving, and for every
breath a song.
	GENEROSITY during life is a very different
thing from generosity in the hour of death;
the one proceeds from liberality and benev-
olence, the other from pride or fear.
	IT would not be easy, even for an unbe-
liever, to find a better translation of the
rule of virtue from the abstract into the
concrete, than to endeavor so to live that
Christ would apporve our life.—John Stu-
art Mill.
	SCIENTIFIC thought remains in the high-
er regions of society, among the privileged
souls which have acquired some intellectual
culture, while religion embraces life and
death, bears in itself the consolation of in-
numerable griefs, the encouragement of
countless hopes.—Emilio Gastelar.
	THERE'S no music in a "rest," that I
know of, but there's the making of music in
it.  And people are always missing that
part of the life melody, always talking of
perseverance, and courage, and fortitude;
but patience is the finest and worthiest part
of fortitude, and the rarest, too.—Ruskin.
	MOST people need all the strength which
a high-toned public opinion can give to
them to keep them true to their conscience
and their God; and that opinion is partly
formed by what we do and what we are.
Strive earnestly, then, to order your life
with a wise simplicity.  Be frugal in the
shows and generous in the substances of life.
Set the example, so greatly needed, of
wholesome moderation. Show that you
care for character above all else.


KEEPING THE TOUNGE.

	Keep it from unkindness. Words are
sometimes wounds.  Not very deep wounds
always, and yet they irritate.  Speech is un-
kind sometimes when there is no unkind-
ness in the heart; so much the worse that
needless wounds are inflicted; so much the
worse that unintentionally pain is caused.
	Keep it from falsehood.  It is so easy to
give a false coloring, to so make a state-
ment that it may convey a meaning differ-
ent from the truth while yet there is an ap-
pearance, of truth, that we need to be on
our guard.  There are very many who would
shrink from telling a lie, who yet suffer
themselves in such inaccurate or exaggerated
one-sided statements that they really come
under the condemnation of those whose,
"lying lips are an abomination to the Lord."
	Keep it from slander.  The good reputa-
tion of others should be dear to us. Sin 
should not be suffered to go unrebuked;
but it should be in accordance with the
Scripture method: "Go and tell him his
fault twixt thee and him alone."  And it
should be borne in mind that what is too of-
ten considered as merely harmless gossip
runs dangerously near, if it does not pass,
the confines of slander. A reputation is too
sacred to be made a plaything of, even if
intent be not malicious.


﻿ “So you take lessons in drawing, Sallie?”
"Yes, and the teacher says I am an apt pu-
pil, as I draw more inferences, insinuations,
admirers and allowance than any other girl
in the academy.”


For the EXPONENT.
		STRONG MINDED WOMEN.

	Strong minded women!  I always pictured
a strong minded woman as one who rules
her husband, her household, and as far as
possible every one around her. One that is
smart and knows it, and acting upon her
ruling proclivities, makes herself generally
disagreeable.  To me it is always a painful
sight to see a woman stepping into a man's
place as head of the family, oftentimes treat-
ing her husband as though he were a child,
turning innocent words into ridicule, smil-
ing and winking at her own smrrtness, or
chiding him for some slight carelessness
that really was no harm.  I have wondered,
if the feelings of the husband were sensi-
tive enough to be wounded, or if blunted
by continual repititions of the same charac-
ter?
	Man is ahead of us, God has placed him
there, and we need not fight against it.  If
you have husbands living their religion, and
magnifying the Priesthood, you will do well
indeed if you keep up with them.  Let
them lead, and you follow. Let them dic-
tate and you obey.  Then you will be happy
and in your proper place.
	I think a great deal of the strong minded
principles of the Gentiles are creeping
in among us.  I believe in women being in-
tellectual, cultivated, and refined, for that is
right.  If she can work at any work as well
as a man, let her receive the same wages,
for that is just. But to play the lord, to be
masculine in thought and manner, is not be-
coming for a sister in the Gospel.  We have
enough honor, enough glory, all that we de-
sire, if we are only faithful to the Gospel,
and honor, love and obey our husbands.
			EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George.


SUMMER FRUITS.

	A very mistaken idea has found lodge-
ment in the minds of many, otherwise sen-
sible people, to wit, that summer com-
plaints, the generic term under which the
disorders peculiar to the season are known,
are caused mainly by the use of fruit, and
the wise and safe plan is to prohibit its use
altogether.
	This method, which neglects to take ad-
vantage of one of the most beneficent pro-
visions of man's use, comfort and well-being,
is detrimental not only to enjoyment but to
permanent health.  The term "antiscorbu-
tic" expresses the value of fruits as food,
and the estimation in which they are held
by those who understand their relation to 
human wants.
	When fruit does harm, it is because it is
eaten at improper times, in improper quan-
tities, or before it is ripe and fit for the
human stomach. Fruit ought not to be eat-
en between meals any more than any other
food.
	The principle difficulty with us is that we
do not eat enough of fruit; that we kill its
finer qualities with sugar; that we drown
them in cream.  We need the medical ac-
tion of the pure fruit acids in our systems.
We need the cooling, corrective influence,
and should accept it as one of the best gifts
of Providence.—"Utah Pomologist."


AN enterprising lady, Mrs. E. Screven, of
Liberty, Ga., planted some young pear trees
three years ago, and from their fruit this
year shipped to Savannah fifteen barrels of 
pound pears, retailing at five cents each.
She has also successfully cultivated many
thousands of tea-plants.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		L. GREENE RICHARDS. Editor.
	CORNLLIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City. Utah.
		SALT LAKE CITY. MAY 1, 1875


[Column 1]
			SPLINTERS.

			PERSONAL.
	Attorney Gen. Williams tendered to the
President the resignation of his office Apr.
22d to take effect on the 15th of May;rumor
says Sec. Briston will be elected in his
place........John Harper Senior member of
Harper Bros. New York city died on the
evening of Apr. 22d, in his 79th year......
The report that the President requested
Sec. Delano to resign is said to be false......
Hugh Smith Carpenter, D. D. of San Fran-
cisco has been elected pastor of the Presby-
terian church at Washington D. C.......Au-
ditor Clinton of New Orleans has been sus-
pended from office during his trial......Mrs.
Rosetta E. Buckingham an able advocate
of woman's suffrage died March 23rd. aged
42, at South Glastonburg Conn.........Miss
Grace Anna Lewis of Penn. has been lect-
uring in Boston on Natural History......Rev.
Robert Colyer's popularity in Boston is
still increasing......Patrick O'Shea who mur-
dered his wife in March 1874 was hanged
in the jail-yard in St. Louis on the 9th. of
April.......E. S. Harney has tendered his
resignation as United States Marshal for
Washington Territory......Charles Tappan
the last surviving member of the anti-slav-
ery society died in Washington D. C. Apr.
9th, aged 70.....Vice President Wilson has
changed his mind with regard to going to
Europe.
			FOREIGN.
	Parliament in Italy has directed that capi-
tal punishments shall be inflicted within
prison walls......Single letter postage in
Mexico is 25cts.......Pius the Ninth, since
occupying the papal chair has created nine-
ty-nine cardinals—the total number at pres-
ent is fifty-seven......Cardinal Manning of
London is seriously ill with nervous pros-
tration......The British House of Commons
on the evening of the 19th. of Apr. dis-
cussed the Belgium question......The Rus-
sian Diet has passed the bill abrogating the
causes of the constitution which allow inter-
ference in affairs pertaining to religion....Mr.
Robert H. Elliot has published a pamphlet on
the condition of Hindostan as regards the 
British rule......John Jay U. S. Minister to
Austria has sailed for the United States......
Capt. Coyer, a gentleman and a distinguished
officer is said to be the greatest pianist in
Paris......The Emperor of Brazil proposes to
abdicate in favor of his eldest daughter the
Countess d'Eu.
			GENERAL.
	The Woman's Medical College of the
New York Infirmary held its commence-
ment exercises at Union League Hall the
first week in April.....A bill passed the
house at Springfield Ill. recently allowing
women to become notaries public........In
the Michigan University the report of the
whole number of students is 1,191. The
University Library contains 22,500 volumes
......The National Woman's Suffrage Asscia-
tion will hold their annual meeting in
Union League Hall New York May 11th,
1875.....At the centennial celebration of the
battle of  Lexington the churches in Boston,
Concord and Lexington were crowded.
Lanterns were hung out on the belfry by
the son of the old sexton who gave the
same signal to Paul Revere in 1775.....Mt.
Holyoke Female Seminary is going to have
a new building at a cost of $50,000......At
the California State University, there are
thirty-nine young women studying.........
The proceeds of the sale of Sumner's art
legacy is to be used for the purchase of
statues and bass-reliefs for Boston Art Muse-

[Column 2]
um......The Boston school-girls beat the stu-
dents of Harvard Universiny at a spelling
match in the Boston Music Hall......Of the
221,042 teachers in this country 127,731 are
women......At South Bend, Ind., a fire on
the 10th of Apr. burned a block of frame
buildings total loss $75,000, insurance 20,
000......In the New England and Middle
States, Apr. 13th, snow fell in some places
to the depth of nine inches......One thou-
sand emigrants went West on the 9th, on a
special train for California......Notice of ac-
tion has been given in the new six million
suit against Wm. M. Tweed......A new
stage line has been started between Walla
Walla and Wallula Oregon......Mrs. Mattie
Gaylord of Boston Mass. has recently been
lecturing in Oregon she is a lecturer of
some note both in England and the United
States.....The steamers to and from San
Francisco and Coos Bay will touch at Cres-
cent City hereafter until the first of Nov.


[Column 1]
	CULTURE AND REFINEMENT.

	"The means that heaven yields must be embraced
	And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
	And we will not, heaven's offers we refuse

	What wonderful powers and capacities for
unlimited improvement our Creator has en-
dowed us with, and how little are they under-
stood or appreciated by the masses of mankind!
Children are born into the world, and develop
physically into men and women, receive per-
haps, an ordinary education, occupy a common
sphere in every day life, or society; and if they
so live as not to be guilty of any overt act
against the laws of men, and leave their name
upon the earth, fancy they have filled the mea-
sure of their creation. But is this the only
purpose for which we have been created in the
image of our Maker? Can we expect to receive
an exaltation with glorified beings, without
making any exertion for our own improvement?
We receive heavenly gifts and powers, as ele-
ments in our individual natures; they are sus-
ceptible of being cultivated indefinably. Were
they given us to be wasted or hidden away?
The Savior in his parable of the talents put to
usury, has clearly demonstrated this fact to all
intelligent beings; and yet many thousands
go on from day to day, in an idle search for
pleasure, or the gratification of material wants,
when above and around are the resources for
development in art, science and literature,
which require the agency of beings possessing
the highest and deepest cultivation.
	We profess to believe God has a definite pur-
pose to accomplish by calling us into existence;
but do our actions truly manifest a reverence
for the principles which we have espoused?
Can we go on wasting our energies, neglecting
our opportunities, and thoughtlessly trifling
with the advantages given us for strengthen-
ing, purifying and elevating our characters,

[Column 2]
and not be held accountable? We believe in
all things upon natural principles; then we
have a vast work before us to accomplish, and
we should be diligent and untiring in our ef-
forts to live purer, better and more exemplary
lives.
	It cannot be done without thoughtful care
and study, we cannot borrow it all from books,
or copy it from others. But we must ourselves,
train every faculty we possess more carefully,
and seek more watchfully to guard against evil
influences and tendencies, than we should
watch the growth and cultivation of the most
delicate and sensitive plant.
	The tastes, affections, sentiments, feelings and
passions, every gift and quality that is inherent
in our characters, are susceptible of an unlimit-
ed development and refinement; but it must
be a life-work; it can not be done in a day or
an hour, or by adopting any system or code of
etiquette, morals or manners. And yet, it is
by and through these means, the world is apt
to judge those enriching and ennobling charac-
teristics, which stamp perceptibly the carer of
one possessing the truest and widest enlarge-
ment of moral, mental and spiritual develop-
ment.
	If we but carefully try each time we do any-
thing to do our best, and pray for the guidance
of the Holy Spirit every day and hour, we shall
not fail in our attempts to acquit ourselves
honorably and creditably, in whatever position
we occupy. We are laying the foundation of a
future, which will be illimitable. And in view
of this, ought we not to awaken to an instant
and vivid consideration of the significance of
the object of our attainment?
	Shall we shrink from any responsibility im-
posed upon us, by the age and time in which
we live? Not by any one individual can the
purposes of God be accomplished; it is the
problem of humanity, and in our own hearts
is the temple where we must commence; call-
ing into exercise every faculty of our higher
natures; and if each one interested in the work
of progression, would by the interchange of
ideas, sentiments and sympathies unfold their
highest aspirations, open their deepest living
fountains, and strengthen each other in the
great, grand and mighty work, of refining and
perfecting, they would thereby secure the
greatest happiness, and erect for themselves
and those who shall follow in their footsteps,
the loftiest standards for emulation.
	An innate and true refinement of individual
character, will be essential in fitting us to
mingle and participate in the society of exalt-
ed beings; and those who anticipate being the
recipients of a glorious reward for their sacri-
fices here, and yet waste the time, means and
opportunities, at their free disposal, with no
fixed pupose in view, but to enjoy the luxu-
ries of living, to the fullest extent, will assur-
edly meet with disappointment; and in the
final judgment, the talents they have hidden
away, will be called for and given to those who
have been the most faithful in the cultivation
of the infinite attributes of the soul.
					E. B. Wells B. B.


SCHOOL EXAMINATION

	An examination of some of the advanced
classes in Miss Mary E. Cook's school, at the
close of the last quarter, April 16th, was very
entertaining, and commendatory of the efforts
and abilities of both teacher and scholars.
	The reviewing of a class in American History
was particularly interesting.  Apparently every
scholar in the class excelled in promptly and
correctly answering a long list of questions on
the laws and constitution of the United States;


and in giving names and dates of celebrated
persons and memorable events. The names of
the most praiseworthy, however, are as follows:
Emeline Wells, Amy Colkins, Ida Felt, Hor-
tense Lange, Anna Lynch, Isabella Pugsley,
Wealthy Richards, George Taylor, Anna Wells,
Nettie Wells, Luella Miles, Julia Stringham,
Ida Young, Elizabeth Best, Georgia Spencer,
Messrs W. Van Cott and A. Gabbott, although
not present at the examination, having left
school a few weeks previous, formerly belonged
to the class, and came in after the close of the
review, to show, by the ready manner in which
they could repeat the "Constitution," and an-
swer all questions that could be propounded
upon it, that their interest in the study had
not collapsed. 
	Select readings and recitations by younger
pupils, contributed much to the pleasantness
of the occasion; which was also enlivened by
sweet music, vocal and instrumental, from
some of the young ladies of the school.
	President D. H. Wells, Elder J. E. Taylor
and a few lady friends were present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TAILORING ESABLISHMENT

	Realizing the importance of founding and
carrying out Home Industries, we (the ladies of
the Fourteenth Ward) have commenced a Co-
operative Tailoring Establishment in our Re-
lief Society Building. Our design is to be able
to fill orders for men and boys' clothing, on
short notice and at low prices. We also pur-
pose keeping on hand ready-made suits for
children. Those who are interested and de-
sirous of assisting in the great cause of Zion's
children becoming self-sustaining are respect-
fully invited to call or send their orders, as we
are confident our work will give satisfaction.
Mrs. S. Paxman, Superintendent, is an expe-
rienced and efficient tailoress.
	E. R. Snow,			S. H Wilkinson,
	M. I. Horne,			E. S. Taylor,
	W. East,				J. C. Richardson,
and the members of the 14th Ward Relief So-
ciety.


[Column 1]
			﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
	TWO SUICIDES have been committed in this
city recently, by a man named William Geehr
and a young girl named Jane Powell.
	HIGH WATER in the vicinity of Ogden, has
been threatening bridges and other near erec-
tions, with danger at least, if not destruction.
	THE OFFICE of WOMAN'S EXPONENT is re-
moved to the building known as Jos. A. Young's
office, corner of South Temple and First East
Streets, south of the Eagle gate.
	A LADY by the name of Jacobs, recently
died suddenly of heart disease, in this city.
She was a Jewess, and the funeral services
were conducted in accordance with the custom
of her people.
	TWO OF Salt Lake's prominent business men,
C. R. Barrett and W. C. Hendrie, who have
been enjoying for a short time the delightful
climate and exhilarating sea-breezes of the
Gold City of the West, lately returned
home.
	ON THE 14th inst, a free excursion to Lake
Point for the aged poor of the city is contem-
plated. The officers of the Utah Western Rail-
road have kindly proffered the use of cars for
the company free of charge, a band of music
will be in attendance and the committee will,
if possible, engage the steamer "City of Cor-
inne," that the party may have the luxury of a
short sail upon the Lake. Messrs C. R. Sav-
[Column 2]
age, Bishop Hunter and George Goddard form
the Committeee of arrangements.
	SOME OF our friends are deserving of thanks
for their thoughtfulness and promptitude in
already bringing and sending in subscriptions
for the fourth volume of the EXPONENT. We
would most respectfully remind others that one
issue after the present will complete the third
volume, and that subscriptions should be for-
warded as early as possible.
	IN CONSEQUENCE of the damage done by
high waters, no trains arrived from the East
for several days; hence, no mail matter was re-
ceived. On the evening of the 22nd, the first
mall since the 14th, was brought in. Trains of
empty cars have been sent east from Ogden to
bring mails and passengers which have ac-
cumulated on the line.
	SATURDAY EVENING, April 24th, a full and
appreciative audience composed the compli-
mentary benefit to Mr. John T. Caine. "The
Serious Family" was fairly rendered. Mr.
Caine acknowledged the compliment paid him
by a short and appropriate speech. The per-
formance contained a most humorous and in-
teresting variety, and reffects particular credit
upon the management. Laura Honey Steven-
son the talented vocalist is in town.
	THE ZETA GAMMA Society gave an enter-
tainment to a select company of friends on the
evening of the 23rd. of April. The members
of the society acquitted themselves creditably
in essays, select readings and declamations,
also in rendering a scene from "Henry the 
Fourth."  They presented Dr. Park with pho-
tographs of all the members, mounted on a
card, nicely finished and elegantly framed, as a
token of their appreciation of the interest he
had taken in their efforts for improvement.
The Dr. acknowledged the gift by a few choice
and appropriate remarks. Gov. Axtell and
Judge Sutherland, by request of the President,
each addressed the society, expressing their
sincere pleasure in witnessing such movements
as were calculated to be truly beneficial to the
minds and morals of the youth. The Governor
advanced some very excellent ideas upon hon-
esty, individuality and originality.
	MRS. MARGARET Mitchell in speaking before
the Annual Meeting of the Thirteenth Ward
Relief Society, April 22nd, expressed her grati-
tude to God in being permitted to meet with
her sisters again after her long separation from
them. She said she fully realized the power of
God which had sustained and protected her
during her absence, while journeying, in cross-
ing and re-crossing the ocean with so many
little children. She had often met with the
island sisters in the capacity of a Relief Socie-
ty; they were much more interested than the
sisters here who have all the advantages of
civilization, and of associating with those who
have the fulness of the priesthood. She would
like to see the sisters here manifest as much
zeal as those poor heathens, they enjoyed a full
flow of the Holy Spirit; yet they have no true
idea as yet of the object of their organization.
She felt while among them, how much she
might have accomplished if she had been gifted
with their language, then she would have truly
been what she desired, a missionary indeed.
The Hawaiian sisters walk for miles to these
meetings, to gather in groups and sit upon the
grass until all have arrived when they meet in
some house. They have also a general meet-
ing, and they enjoy themselves in talking about
Zion and how they would rejoice to come here.
She had often thought if they were here and
saw how slothful we were, they would hardly
realize they were in Zion. She had become
[Column 3]
much attached to them, for their kindness and
amiability, and for their integrity to the prin-
ciples of salvation.


LITTLE LETTERS.
	FROM HENRY'S FORK, BRIDGER,
						WYOMING.
DEAR—:
	I am going to tell you something about
the country here. Last fall we had to re-
move from our home on Smith's Fork to this
place, to get range for our cattle. I do not
like the place here so well as I did on
Smith's Fork. We live a long way from
neighbors, and there are big pine trees all
around us.  We have all the gum we want
to chew and father says if we live here an-
other winter we will all have to get new
teeth.  We do not live in a very nice house,
but it is snug and warm in winter, and the
pine grove which surrounds it is green and
beautiful the whole year round.  It is a
pleasant portion of country, and I think I
would be perfectly satisfied if we had meet-
ings, Sunday Schools, and day schools. Per-
haps it will not be long before we have them
all, as a number of families are settling here.
They have schools in all the other settle-
ments now.
	There are several men living about here
who have married squaws and they seem
to make first-rate housekeepers.  These men
appear to love their wives and children
as much as other men do. Uncle Jack
Robbinson has a squaw for a wife, with
whom he has lived for twenty years. She
is pleasant and agreeable in her manners
and keeps her house very neat.  They have
a daughter who married a white man, and
she keeps a very nice house indeed.  Every
one likes her, and her children are as white,
almost as we are.  We have a little half-
breed girl living with us and she is quite
pretty and real good.  In the settlements
where schools are kept, the little half-breeds
are sent, and they behave just as well as the
white children do.
	A gentleman gave me a nice little Bible
on Christmas, and I think a great deal of it,
because it is the first Bible I ever owned.
	I want to do right all the time, and pray
every day that I may be kept good and may
learn to be useful.
							LOU B.

	From St. GEORGE, April 15, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I am a little girl ten years old. I do not
know how to address you as I ought. I am
going to school to sister O. M. Everetts in
the first ward school.  The little girls in
our school being anxious to do something
for the temple, commenced to make a quilt;
and in about ten days after we commenced
it was finished. they gave us ten dollars
credit on the temple.  Sister M. Mustard
kindly proffered to cut the pieces out for us:
we all felt pleased to think we were able to
do something to help build the temple.
The little children are all anxious to do
something that their names may be record-
ed for good. Wishing you great success
with your valuable paper, I subscribe my-
self,		Yours Affectionately,
		MARY ANN RANKIN.


"IT's well enough for you to name your
boy Elias," said Aunt Hepzibah, "but for
goodness sakes don't name him Alias, 'cause
those Aliases is always cuttin' up bad.
Here's Alias Jones, Alias Brown, Alias
Thompson, Alias One-eyed Jake all been
took up in New York for robbin' and steal-
ing."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LITERARY CURIOSTY.

	A LADY occupied a whole year in searching for and fit-
ting the following thirty-eight lines from English and
American poets.  The whole reads almost as if it had
been written at one time and by one author.

				LIFE.

	Why all this toil for triumphs of an hour?
										[Young.
	Life's a short sermon--man is but a flower:
									[Dr. Johnson.
	By turns we catch the fatal breath and die,—
										   [Pope.
	The cradle and the tomb, alas! so nigh.
									           [Prior.
	To be better far than not to be,
										[Sewell.
	Though all men's life may seem a tragedy;
									       [Spencer.
	But light cares speak when mighty griefs are dumb—
										[Daniel.
	The bottom is but shallow whence they come.
							     [Sir Walter Raleigh.
	Your fate is but the common fate of all;
								 	[Longfellow.
	Unmingled joys here no man befall;
									  [Southwell.
	Nature to each allots his proper sphere,
									   [Congreve.
	Fortune makes folly her peculiar care.
									    [Churchill.
	Custom doth often reason overrule,
									    [Rochester.
	And throw a cruel sunshine on a fool.
									   [Armstrong.
	Live well,—how long or short permit to heaven.
										  Milton.
	They who forgive most shall be most forgiven.
										  [Bailey.
	Sin may be clasped so close we cannot see its face,—
										  [French.
	Vile intercourse where virtue has not place,
									  Sommerville.
	Then keep each passion down, however dear,
									      [Thomsom.
	Thou pendulum betwixt a smile and tear;
										    [Byron.
	Her sensual snares let faithless pleasures lay,
										  [Smollet.
	With craft and skill to ruin and betray,
										   [Crabbe.
	Soar not too high to fall, but stoop to rise:
										Massinger.
	We masters grow of all that we despise.
										   [Cowley.
	Oh, then, renounce that impious self-esteem:
										   [Beattie.
	Riches have wings, and grandeur is a dream,
										   [Cowper.
	Think not ambition wise because 'tis brave,
							       [Sir Walter Davenent.
	The paths of glory lead but to the grave.
											[Gray.
	What is ambition? 'Tis a glorious cheat.
										       [Willis
	Only destructive to the brave and great.
										    [Addison.
	What's all the gaudy glitter of a crown?
										     [Dryden.
	The way to bliss lies not on beds of down.
									[Francis Quaries.
	How long we live, not years but actions tell;
										    [Watkins.
	That man lives twice who lives the most life well.
										    [Herrick.
	Make, then, while yet ye may, your God your friend.
									[William Mason.
	Whom Christians worship, yet not comprehend.
											   [Hill.
	The trust that's given guard, and to yourself be just;
											 [Dana.
	For live we how me may et die we must.
										[Shakespere.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	COLDS.—Among all the preventives of
cold, we would recommend the thorough
morning ablution over the entire body, with
much friction.  It seems to prepare the skin
to resist changes of temperature.
	LEMON JUICE FOR DIPTHERIA.—Large
quantities of pure lemon juice as a gargle
for diptheria, is said to have been used
with success in the practice of M. Revillout
during a period of eighteen years.  It is
certainly very simple, and could not do
harm.

[Column 2]
	"WALKING.—A learned Dr. of Cambridge
used to tell his students to take good care
of the third milestone out of Cambridge—
to go around it every day to see that no one
carried it off.  While no man could expect
materially to alter his physical constitution,
it might be conserved and strengthened;
and chiefly by exercise, healthful food,
enough and not too much, and breathing
good air."
	BOILED WHEAT.—Take the finest wheat,
wash it in tepid water. Put it to boil with
five or six parts of water to one of wheat.
Cover close, and after it commences boiling
set it where it will barely simmer.  Cook it
four or five hours, or if hard it will require
still more time.  When done it should be
even full of water or juice, which thickens
and becomes gelatinous while cooking. It
can be eaten by itself or served with cream,
sirup, or milk.
	RULES FOR NERVOUS PEOPLE.—Avoid
working beyond your strength, responsibili-
ties or capacity, avoid all avoidable worries,
and unwholesome excitement or dissipa-
tion: seek the society of healthy, kindly,
sensible people.  Your occupation should
be useful, healthful and fairly remunerative.
Live as much as you can in the fresh air
without exhausting your strength.  Wear
light clothing, to allow the access of air to
the skin.  Take occasional Turkish baths.
Use vegetable food with your diet, and
while you partake of  food be surround-
ed by cheerful influences, and it will be
more likely to agree with you.
	EXERCISE FOR THE HEART.—An eminent
physician Dr. McCormac of Dublin directs
special attention to the danger of giving
too little exercise to the heart.  "To
those who labor under functional heart af-
fection, walking though not in excess, and
not too fast, or too far, over hilly unequal
surfaces; but swinging the arms unrestrained
by bond or stay in the open air is the best ex-
ercise of any.  This develops and strength-
ens the cardiac muscular fibers, and aer-
ates the blood; at the same time fat is spar-
ingly developed and coupled with cautious
and abstinent habits the heart's action be-
comes reliable, even, and equal to all life's
proper exigencies."
	EATING FRUIT.—Upon the quality of
fruit depends its value as food, both in its
ripening, and its being the product of
healthy parentage; we should not be satis-
fied with an interior second quality, when
the superior first class could be obtained.
Care should be taken also as to the method
of drying.  None but the product of a
healthy growth and matured development
can be sufficiently nutritious; such fruit will
be relished as no inferior kind could possi-
bly be.  The distasteful and comparatively
foodless should be rejected.  Cook it as we
may, experiment as we will, the results are
unsatisfactory. During the winter time,
the blood becomes more or less depraved by
the concentrated and highly carbonized
food, and fruit is needed as a counteractant,
to supply what the system demands for
health; sub-acid fruits relish best: and to the
natural appetite, "that which tastes best is
best."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Clean Jewels.—Soap and water is the best
material for cleaning jewelry.
	To Improve whitewash.—A strong solution
of sulphate of magnesia gives a beautiful quality
to whitewash.
	To Clean Casks.—Rancid butter, pork, and lard


casks may be purified by burning straw or shav-
ings in them.
	Cork Cement.—Black cement for bottle corks
consists of pitch hardened by the addition of resin
and brickdust.
	To Clear Water.—A piece of alum as big as a
hickory nut will render clear a pail of muddy wa-
ter. Dissolve the alum, stir and allow the impu-
rities to settle.
	To Do Up Silk.—To make silk which has been
wrinkled appear like new, sponge on the surface
with a weak solution of gum arabic or white glue,
and iron it on the wrong side.
	To Polish Plate.—One ounce each of muriate of
soda, cream of tartar, and alum boiled in a gallon
of water, gives plate a beautiful whiteness.  Dip
the article in the mixture, remove, and rub dry.
	Good Glue.—A handful of quicklime, mixed in
four ounces of linseed oil and boiled to a good
thickness, makes, when spread on plates and hard-
ened, a glue which can be used in the ordinary
way, and will resist heat.
	To Stain Wood.—A good walnut stain for wood
is composed of water, one quart; washing soda,
one and a half ounces; Vandyke brown, two and a
half ounces; bichromate of potash, one fourth of an
ounce. Boil for ten minutes and apply with a brush,
either hot or cold.
	For Washing Calico.—To wash calico without
fading, infuse 3 gills of salt in 4 quarts of water.
Put in the calico while the infusion is hot, and
leave until the latter is cold.  It is said that in this
way the colors are rendered permanent and will
not fade by subsequent washing.
	For Washing Colored Cloth.—Before washing
almost any colored fabrics, soak them in water, to
each gallon of which a spoonful of oxgall has been
added. A teacupful of lye in a pail of water is
said to improve the color of black goods. A strong
tea of common hay will improve the color of French
linens. Vinegar in the rinsing water, for pink and
green, will brighten those colors, and soda answers
the same end for both purple and blue.
	Dried Apples.—Quite a number of "good things"
may be made from them.  For preserves, take
nice apples, soak them over night in rather more
than enough water to cover them; in the morning
boil them till soft, then add about as much sugar in
bulk as there was of the apples before soaking, and
cook until they look clear; season with lemon, or
add a few raisins when you do the sugar.
	For Pies.—Strain through a colander; sweeten,
season with lemon and bake with two crusts. One-
third dried sweet apples stewed with peaches are
an improvement to the peaches.  Dried apples
ought always to be soaked over night before be-
ing stewed.
	For Jelly.—Soak one quart of apples in four
quarts of water, over night, boil until the apples
are soft, strain the water off carefully and to one
quart of juice add a quart of sugar and boil it un-
til it jells.  If the apples are nice, you may sweet-
en them and they will do very well for sauce, es-
pecially if you have a little lemon to put in them;
but you can use apples for this that are not fit for
the table.  In looking over dried apples to stew,
throw all that are not first-class in a dish by them-
selves for jelly.


﻿THE first sweet flowers, that baby Susa's
hand had ever been permitted to command,
she pulled to pieces gently and with care,
she scattered them about, and here they
are! For tenderly the scented leaves we
took, and here secured them in a valued
book. And they are precious now and dear
to us, for Lina's little one arranged them
thus.  With her oft fingers, dimpled, white 
and small—She is the purest, sweetest flow-
er of all.	 						L.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		FLORAL HINTS.

	ST GEORGE, UTAH, April 12th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT.
	As spring is likely now to put in a tardy
appearance, it is time the flower growers
were commencing work.  Now it is better
to have a small flower garden with a few
really nice flowers, than much garden and
few flowers.  So I will suggest, that each
take a small area of ground, have it well
prepared and plant with care. Water twice
a day or as often as the surface of the ground
becomes a little dry. Say take one square
rod of ground, make it properly level, get
the boys to bring on to this six wheelbarrow
loads or one wagon load of WELL ROTTED,
fine manure, and about the same quantity
of washed sand.  Spread evenly, then have
the ground spaded well and fine, thoroughly
incorporating sand, manure and soil together,
leaving no lumps. Now lay off the ground
and make shallow drills for the seeds, and
cover not more than a quarter of an inch
with dirt; then sprinkle along, about the
same depth of coarse sand—gently press
down, then with a watering pot keep the
ground moist to the top till the seeds are
up; you may need to give a little water two
or three times a day.  Pinks, sweetwil-
liams, antirrhimnus, canterberry bells and
most other perrennial plants do best to take
them up every spring, and plant them in
well fertilized and prepared ground, divid-
ing them when too large.  Pansies and vio-
lets require a half shaded position with
ground liberally moist.
	The smallest sized flower seeds will do
best sowed on the top of a pot of good earth,
and kept in the house until plants are well
up, and then transplanted.  Seeds of mig-
nonette and many other flowers will come
up much sooner if soaked in warm water
twenty-four hours, and better still when a
few drops of spirits of camphor are added
to the water.  Seeds of cypress should be
soaked in HOT water before planting. Nas-
turtian makes a lovely house plant. More
anon.					     FLORA.
	A DOUBLE flower is unnatural and will
take every chance to get back into its single
or natural state.  It is useless to try and
save seeds of double petunias, balsams, etc.,
for they will surely be single the next year.
—Exchange.
	STARTING DAHLIAS.—Among the many
things to be done as the season advances, is
the starting of dahlias. We start ours in
boxes by the kitchen fire, keeping very
moist; as soon as the danger from frost is
over, put them in open ground in a warm
situation; separate the tubers; do not have
more than one in a hill.  Have a good strong
stake to each plant and begin tying it when
quite young with woolen yarn or strips of
cloth. If your dahlia has more than one
shoot, select the strongest one; pinch off all
the rest; pinch all the side shoots up to two
feet from the ground; then allow one or
two branches to grow; mulch with fine
grass; have an old tub, save all the soap
suds and put it on daily and your flowers
will repay you for all your trouble.—Rural.
PERENNIAL PEAS.—Whatever else you
do in the garden this spring, do not forget
to plant a few seeds of Perennial Peas.
They do not flower the first season, but with
ordinary care in hoeing and manuring, the
plants increase in beauty each year.  They
are perfectly hardy, though a slight cover-
ing of coarse stable manure, put on in the
fall, gives them a good start in the spring.
	One variety in our garden is very pretty,
and its clusters of bright, rose-colored flow-

[Column 2]
ers are borne in great profusion in early
summer.  If no seed is allowed to mature,
you can be sure of finding some flowers for
bouquets throughout the season.
	The plants are easily trained in any de-
sired form, but a cheap and favorite mode of
ours is to surround them with hemlock
brush four feet high and set in the ground
so closely as to form a sort of circular hedge.
This can be trimmed evenly on the top, and
at first, is rather ornamental of itself; but
the leaves soon fall off, leaving a fine net-
work of branches to support the vines,
which are soon covered with a mass of rosy
bloom.—Ib.
	A STRAWBERRY grower states that to
two barrels of rain water he put one quarter
of a pound of ammonia, and one quarter of
a pound of common nitre, and with this so-
lution he sprinkled his strawberry beds
every night when blossoming. The result
was double the amount of large strawber-
ries to that just adjoining not so treated.
Try it.


For the EXPONENT.
			A LECTURE,
READ BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES RE-
	TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION, BEAVER, MAR.
	13th—75.
MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENDS:
	Permit one who has had a deep experi-
ence in the ways of life, to offer a few re-
marks on this interesting occasion. You
have assembled here to-day to celebrate
your organization into a band of faithful
laborers in the cause of truth and reform.
What greater step could you have taken in
the march of advancement and progression,
in the more perfect habits of life, and in-
terior powers of intellect and understand-
ing, than to form yourselves into a body poli-
tic, for the mutual regulation of your hab-
its, both social and domestic. Assimilation
in faith and practice creates union. This So-
ciety is denomiated "The Retrenchment
Association." The true definition of the
term signifies, co-operation of effort, to re-
strain any tendency to extravaganve, to re-
frain from what is impracticable in words
and deeds: inter-communion, harmonizing,
and agreeing to establish the most wise, pru-
dent, and refining intercourse with each
other.
	If as a Society you exist only in name,
where will be the influence of your excellen-
cy and beauty, which your friends have so
fondly anticipated? I could wish that your
habits of deportment might be so far supe-
rior to those who do not incline to unite with
you, that you could be individually recog-
nized. Let your dress be a medium be-
tween two extremes: always in good taste,
and of material accessible to all, never try-
ing to outvie each other in fashionable ap-
parel, but in affability and acts of kindness
let each one endeavor to be an example to
others.
	I know it would grieve the faithful sister
who presides over you, as well as others who
yearn over your best interests, were they
to see pride creeping in among you. I will
dare to believe that those whom I now ad-
dress have inherited a little sound common
sense from their mothers. That honesty,
integrity, humility, charity and love of
good order, are inborn principles in your or-
ganizations. Never be intolerant, and harsh
in judging. If some of your associates hap-
pen to fall under a different influence from
yourselves, and have ventured incautiously
on inadmissable ground, be not too ready to
condemn them, try by loving words to win


them to walk in safer paths. Perhaps their
parents and guardians have failed to exer-
cise a proper discipline over them. Never
try to appear affable in the presence of a 
profane man; were you to hear the name of
a kind earthly parent spoken of in a disre-
spectful manner, you would feel aggrieved,
should it not wound you more to hear the 
name of your kind Heavenly Father irrev-
erently repeated.  Shun infidelity as you
would the poison of asps.
	Lastly, cultivate the society of the good
and true, of both sexes. Remember this,
that prayer is as necessary to the soul, as
food is to the body, that you may grow in
grace and knowledge. 
				MRS. L. B. PRATT.


LITTLE FOLKS.

	A SCHOOLBOY has put on paper the fact
that he would 'rather be a little girl and
obey his mother than be a dog and obey
the moon."
	NOTHING will sooner tempt a bachelor to
abandon his resolution to marry than to
sleep in the adjoining room to a couple with
a colicky baby.
	THE reason a boy runs from his father, if
he can, when that relative is after him with
a strap, is that he would rather be chased
than chastened.
	"WHERE are you going?" asked a little
boy of another who had slipped and fallen
down on the icy pavement. "Going to get
up," was the blunt reply.
	A BAD little boy rubbed cayenne pepper
dust all over the back of his jacket. The
school ma'am thrashed him briskly, but dis-
missed school immediately to run to the
nearest drug store for eye-water.
	PA, has the world a tail?" asked an ur-
chin of his father. "No, Child. How could
it have one when it is round?" "Well,"
persisted the heir, "why do the papers say,
So wags the world,' if it has no tail to wag
about?"
	"DID any of you ever see an elephant's
skin?" inquired a teacher of an infant
class.
	"I have," exclaimed one.
	"Where?" asked the teacher.
	"On the elephant," said the boy, laugh-
ing.
	A VERY polite and impressive gentleman
said to a youth in the street.
	"Boy, may I inquire where Robinson's
drug store is?"
	"Certainly, sir," replied the boy, very re-
spectfully.
	"Well, sir," said the gentleman, after
waiting awhile, "where is it?"
	"I have not the least idea, yer honor,"
said the boy.


A CERTAIN New York boot-black has a
more lucrative income than some of the
leading business men, and it is said that the
cake and pie stand at the Postoffice is worth
more than any clerkship in that institution.
There is also said to be a news-stand in the
same neighborhood whose income is prefer-
able to many a distinguished city editor,
while the fellow who sells cakes and coffee
on another corner has realized sufficient to 
purchase a farm besides fifty or sixty thou-
sand dollars worth of real estate in Gotham.
Another man is growing rich by purchasing
pigs' feet at the slaughter-house for $1,25
per hundred and then turning them into
souse, for which he has a large and growing
custom.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DIVERSIONS.
	A MOUNTAINOUS event—Andes election.
	A "BARBER-OUS custom"—Shaving off
the beard.
	SCOUTS OF THE PLAIN—Men who sneer
at homely women.
	A MODERN writer says one ounce of jus-
tice is worth a ton of theory.
	WHAT month puts on more airs and is
most aristocratic of any in the calendar—
March.
	A HORSE with more appetite than grace
ate up a Chinaman's pig tail in San Francis-
co a few days since.
	A NEW YORK paper speaks of a gentleman
who was quartered at a hotel but does not
tellus what became of the quarters.
	IF they would put the ladies on one side
and the gentlemen on the other side at a spell-
ing match, Quilp says one would know which
side to bet on.
	On asking a servant girl if the hired
man cleared the snow off with alacrity, she
replied:
	"No ma'am he used a shovel."
	THE power of love receives fresh illus-
tration in the case of a Montreal girl who
sold her new bonnet so that her lover might
buy a pair of skates.
	THE best defense of lying that we ever
read is the remark of Charles Lamb, related
by Leigh Hunt, that "truth is precious, and
not to be wasted on everybody."
	A MISSOURI woman who applied for a
situation as car driver, being asked if she
could manage mules, scornfully replied, "O
course I can, I’ve had two husdands."
	"JOHN, I am afraid you have been forget-
ing me," said a bright-eyed girl to her
sweetheart the other day. "Yes, Sue, I
have been for getting you these two years."
	A ROCHESTER flirt had an offer of mar-
riage the other evening and rushing to the
hall she called up stairs: Mother! am I en-
gaged to anybody now?"
	MISS Bancroft, the young lady who was
lately married to Count Tziecuzksi, has now
got a name which is the nearest approach
to the phonetic spelling of a sneeze that
has yet been made.
	"BIDDY," said a lady, "step over and see
how old Mrs. Jones is this morning." In a
few minutes Biddy returned with the infor-
mation that Mrs. Jones was seventy-two
years, seven months and two days old that
morning.
	"HALLOA, there, how do you sell your
wood?"
	"By the cord."
	"How long has it been cut?"
	"Four feet."
	"I mean how long has it been since you
cut it?"
	“No longer than it is now."
	A CELEBRATED writer gives the condi-
tions under which women of different na-
tionalities are fond of their husbands.
	A French woman if he is witty or chival-
rous. A German, for courtesy. A Dutch
woman, if he does not disturb her comfort
too much. A Spanish woman, if he wreak
vengeance on all who displease her. An
Italian, if he is dreamy and poetical. A Rus
sian, if he dispises all Westerners as barbar-
ians. An English woman, if he succeeds
in gaining favor with the court and nobility.
And an American woman is satisfied if he
has plenty of money.


[Column1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
	The EXPONENT is my favorite paper: I
realize how unfit I am to write, still as all
have been invited to do so, I trust I may
benefit myself, and I ask my kind readers
to be patient, and not think I write for no-
toriety; but because it is a duty and to me a
pleasure when my simple thoughts can do
any good even to one of the least. I take
great delight in reading our paper (if I may
be allowed to say our) and I really be-
lieve if the young ladies in Utah were to
read it more, and leave trash alone, fewer
would go to ruin. It makes my heart ache
when I realize how reckless and indiffer-
ent the girls are both in the cities and vil-
lages; I cannot see much difference between
the two places. They seem to think that
life is long, and there is plenty of time to
prepare for eternity. Though wherever
there has been Retrenchment Associations
organized it has caused them to reflect more
upon their duties as daughters of Zion.
Many girls every year marry those who
care not for God or man, and who cannot
save themselves, much less assist them in
the work of redemption. Do girls who
act thus realize for a moment what they are
doing? Some will say "I would rather
marry one of our faith, but then if I should
chance to love one opposed to it, I should
certainly be the wife of the one I loved
whether he were Gentile or Jew." "Relig-
ion" they say "should not interfere where
happiness and the heart are concerned," and
if one regards love as many do they might
be justified. Yet I am inclined to believe
that if such persons were to live prayer-
fully and humbly before our Heavenly
Father and keep the company of true saints
they would not be troubled with the fitful
passions formed for strangers. Love is pure
and holy and I cannot call this feeling love.
Love is an attribute of the Deity and is
rarely fromed instantly, and it can only be
founded on true merit, as I understand it.
Yet the name of this sacred feeling has
been substituted as an excuse for the most
unhallowed passion. Love would ever seek
to bless, not to ruin or bring disgrace.
Again some young ladies will say, "One
might as well marry a Gentile as an indiffer-
ent Mormon." I do not know that there is
any necessity of doing either. In the first
place, it is the duty of every woman to
be a saint herself, then if she is careful in
her choice, she may get a husband who feels
the same; and even should she be so un-
fortunate as to get one who is not worthy,
her motives were pure and she commits no
sin. When she acts in open rebellion against
the commands of her Creator how great is
her sin against herself, her children, and
the laws of God. The man to whom she
gives her life may be really an honorable
man, a good citizen possessing many good 
traits of character; still he is unworthy to
be the companion of a true-hearted daught-
er of Zion. Our friend "Beth" has advised
all, not to marry without love, and while I
readily endorse that advice, I would add,
be sure you know who you are loving and
what is the foundation of the sentiment.
Don't fancy you must marry one you have
no right to, because of this miscalled feel-
ing. Keep your heart free to recieve the
affection of the noble and just and remem-
ber that this sudden infatuation for a fascin-
ating appearance is not going to give you
future satisfaction and happiness. Then
dear girls, let us all try, (for I am with you
just as apt to go astray,) to be worthy our
profession, and no longer decieve ourselves
[Column 2]
by thinking there is plenty of time to re-
form. To-day is the time.
					MARY STUART.
	RICHMOND April 9, 1875.


THE SCHOOLMASTER ABROAD:—The great
spelling epidemic has reached California at
last, and San Jose, San Francisco and other
places are having considerable merriment
at their spelling matches, as people in the
East have had before them.  An exchange
says that in St. Louis, recently, a number of
well-known citizens contended in a spelling
match. Reavis, the capital removal man,
went down on the word "capitolian;"
Knapp, editor of the Republican, was
crushed by Laocoon," and sat down amid
shouts of derision; Carl Schurz collided fa-
tally with "pianissimo;" Henry T. Blow
was vanquished by "tempestuous;" Cartz
Brown was floored by cosmographical;" ex-
Congressman Standard succumbed to "may-
orality;" and Captain Eads, who knows all
about digging out the Mississippi, couldn't
spell peerless.


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
   CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
		      AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H. E. PHELPS,
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
SPRING BED, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,
	WALL PAPER AND BABY CARRIAGES.
       75, 77, and 70 First South Street, between East
                            and Temple Streets.
				CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publication, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume:
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.  	-	-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.		-	-	-	-	-	  20 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50 	-	-	-	-	-	  34 00
30 copics, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	- 48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their intentions
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residence of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.


Woman's Exponent.
VOL. 3		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1875.			No. 24


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE EMPRESS of Japan cautions her young
lady friends, about talking loudly on the 
street like the vulgar "American girls."
	AMONG THE new fashionable combinations
of colors, the dirty green with black trim-
ming is the least agreeable to any complex-
ion.
	THE QUESTION of granting to women a
license to preach, has been decided in the
negative by the Northern Indiana Metho-
dist Episcopal Conference, on the ground that
discipline and usage forbid it.
	MRS. Dr. W. W. Lovejoy died recently
from the effects of an over-dose of gelse-
mium, taken for nervousness.  Cases of this
kind are becoming so frequent, that too
much care cannot be taken to avoid such ac-
cidents.
	LATE TELEGRAMS contain most heart-
rending accounts of a great disaster at sea.
The steamer "Schiller" was totally wrecked,
more than three hundred persons meeting
death by drowning.  Some of the ship's
passengers were saved, but what a terrible
experience for even those.
	ON THE 28th of April, a terrible fire oc-
curred in Oshkosh, Wis.  The burnt district
is a mile square; all the banks, offices, etc.
are burned, the safes were fire-proof.  Two men
were killed by a falling wall; more than
two hundred families were left homeless.
The loss is estimated to be more than two
millions.
	TOO FAST or too slow, too much or too lit-
tle, one extreme or the other.  So the peo-
ple move, so they talk, in a manner so
they live, all over the known world.  Yet
there is a happy medium if we can only ar-
rive at it.  And the day of salvation has
dawned, the real light is being diffused in
the midst of the inhabitants of the earth
though they comprehend it not.  The leaven
of the Lord is working, His purposes are
being fulfilled, truth will triumph.
	SAMUEL R. Wells, Professor of phrenolo-
gy, died of typhoid fever, at his residence
in New York city, April 13th. He was
widely and favorably known as an editor,
publisher, journalist and lecturer.  He was
born in West Hartford, Conn., 1820. He
recently established a very valuable Month-
ly, entitled “The Science of Health." He
was an earnest advocate of temperance and
other reforms, and was one of the few who
demonstrated in practice the principles he
inculcated.
	A LARGE Monument in honor of Colum-
bus, is to be erected in the city of Mexico.
It has been designed by Cordies, a French
sculptor; he visited Italy and Spain in order
to examine portraits of Columbus, deemed
authentic. The figure of Columbus is to be
supported by four monks; besides the base
bearing a Latin inscription, there are to be
two bas-reliefs on the base of the monument,
one representing the disembarkation of
Columbus, the other the construction of the
first church in San Francisco. It will stand
in front of the principal entrance of the
Palais de l'Industrie.


OUR CHILDREN.

	Thanks for the EXPONENT, that we as
parents can speak through its columns.
	In the Book of Doctrine and Covenants
page 160, Sec. 22, and par. 4, we read:
	"And again, inasmuch as parents have
children in Zion, or in any of her stakes
which are organized, that teach them not to
understand the doctrine of repentance," &c.
"the sin be upon the heads of the parents.
And they shall also teach their children to
pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord.
And the inhabitants of Zion shall also ob-
serve the Sabbath day to keep it holy."
	Now if these things are faithful and true,
as the Lord has said, and we have had over
forty years experience, with practice on
them, in what light must we as parents be
looked upon, whose children are running
the country over on the Sabbath day—whose
children are not taught to pray, or to walk
uprightly before the Lord according to the
instructions of the Lord? We have the
history of ancient Israel, written for our
example; see Gen. xviii chapter, 17, 18, 19
verses; here it is said that Abraham re-
ceived blessings and knowledge, because
the Lord knew that he would keep his com-
mandments, statutes and laws; and would
command his children and household after
him; also Gen., xxvi chapter, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
and 26 verses; here Isaac is blessed and has
promises made to him, and is told it is be-
cause of the faithfulness of his father Abra-
ham in keeping the charge of the Lord;
while those who kept not the Lord's com-
mands, their blessings were turned into
cursings. See Numbers, xiv chapter, from
the 24 to 45 verses inclusive; also First
Book of Samuel, iii. chapter, 11 to 14 verses
inclusive; also Jer., xxxv chapter, 12, 13,
14 verses; also Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants, 246 page, 6 and 7 par.; in this last
quotation F. G. Williams and S. Rigdon are
both held under condemnation because they
did not keep the commands of the Lord con-
cerning their children.
	How is it mothers? How is it fathers?
How have the children been educated? Have
they been restrained? Ye Elders of Israel,
high priests, seventies and elders, have yon
properly taught your sons, and placed before
them, the necessity of keeping the charge
of the Lord? Many of your sons have
been in the house of the Lord, have received
ordinations, with blessings and powers to
open the store-house of knowledge concern-
ing the eternities; and they can be seen by
the half dozen or more on the Sabbath day
desecrating their holy callings and making
themselves vile. Listen, Oh, ye Saints, re-
frain your sons from all their evil practices;
and do not pass lightly these things, as did
Eli, lest grievous sorrow come upon you.
Be warned!					ETA.


MISS Joanna Chandler, of London, Eng-
land, was one of the founders of the National
Hospital for the Paralyzed and Epileptic.
That institution was established by this
lady, her sister, and a  brother, some fifteen
years ago.  It now maintains 100 beds, and
an extensive out-patient department. The
brother is the only survivor of the three.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Anna E. Dickinson has gone South,
on a lecturing tour.
	MRS. Bayard Taylor is translating her
husband's history of Germany, into the Ger-
man language.
	TWO ladies were elected as overseers of
the poor at the recent town meeting in Pem-
broke.
	Vinnie Ream has taken eight degrees of
Free masonry, the honors were conferred by
Albert Pike.
	MISS Arch, daughter of Mr. Joseph Arch,
the champion of the English agricultural
laborers, has appeared as a lecturer, with
considerable success, in the provinces.
	MRS. Jepson, an English woman who was
born deaf and dumb, told a mission school at
Lowell; the other day, that she had ac-
quired the power of speech entirely by the
efficacy of prayer.
	MISS S. E. Ely, the Librarian of the pub-
lic library of Holyoke, Mass., has prepared
a new and conveniently arranged catalogue,
making a volume of 220 pages, without
closing the library while at work upon it.
	MRS. J. Ellen Foster, of Clinton, appears
before the Davenport term of the Iowa Su-
preme Court, as Attorney in the case of Os-
wald vs. Hays. This is the first instance of
a woman appearing as an advocate in a
cause before the Iowa Supreme Court.
	MADAME Bonaparte lives in Baltimore,
she is now ninety years old. She has been
to Europe sixteen times, and contemplates
going again this summer.  She is said to
possess more intelligence and vivacity than
many of the fashionable ladies of the pres-
ent day.
	QUEEN Victoria compliments Miss Emily
Faithfull, editor of Women and Work, in
this style: "Her majesty the queen wishes
Miss Faithfull every success in the laudable
undertaking by which new branches of in-
dustry are opened to the female portion of
her subjects.
	FRAU Dreyshock a teacher of vocal music
in Berlin, recently led the performance of
Schuman's "Rose Pilgerfahrt" in that city.
This is said to be the first time the con-
ductor's baton has been publicly placed in
the hands of a lady at a first-class musical
performance.
	IT may not be generally known that
Queen Victoria, though not actually on the
staff of any public journal, nor regularly en-
gaged to perform editorial work, sometimes
does contribute leading paragraphs, if not
leading articles, in the daily paper self-enti-
tled "The leading journal of Europe."
	MRS. Watson, wife of Professor Watson of
the Michigan University, was the only wo-
man who enjoyed the privilege of going on
the transit expedition from the United
States. She had a long journey—first an
overland trip to San Francisco, then a voy-
age lasting twenty-six days to Yokohama, a
four days' sail to Nagasaki, and another six
days to Tien-tsin. Then followed a voyage
up the river on small house-boats to Tung-
Chang; and finally a donkey ride of sixteen
miles to Pekin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
		FRIENDSHIP'S TRUST.
	Treasured in the heart's best keeping,
		Nestled midst its tenderest thoughts;
	Lives a memory fresh with gladness,
		With most sacred feelings fraught.
	Let not e'en the gentlest zephyr,
		Breathe this secret on the air,
	Lest it lose its timid fragrance,
		Most exquisite, rich and rare.
	Sweeter than the new-mown clover,
		Filling all my soul with bloom;
	Or the morning breath of violets,
		Heavy laden with perfume.
	Rarer than the choicest nectar,
		Which "the Gods" exultant drain,
	Thrilling every nerve and fibre,
		Which the human heart contain.
	In the far, uncertain future,
		Midst its changes, grief, or pain;
	Gathered closely to my bosom,
		Shall this precious trust remain.
	Time may bring me joy, or sorrow,
		Those now dear may colder grow,
	But this friendship true and constant,
		Never must estrangement know.
	Hushed be every thought, or feeling,
		Which engender doubt or fear,
	Cherished fondly every impulse,
		That would render life more dear.
									EMILE.
S. L. City, Nov. 4th, 1874.			E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi Monthly meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment As-
sociation held at teh Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, May 1st, 1875, was one of
unusual interest. Notwithstanding its be-
ing a "gala-day" the hall was crowded; the
speaking was spirited and inspirational.
President Mrs. M. I. Horne in addressing
the sisters upon the main subject of inter-
est at the present time, the establishing of
Home Industries, alluded to a remark made
by Sister E. R. Snow that those who en-
gaged in this work had the opportunity of
doing more towards building up Zion, than
the Elders who preach the Gospel abroad;
she believed it was a much greater work to
teach people how to live their religion at
home than to convert them. Counselor E.
R. Snow referred to the minutes of the
young ladies, and the increasing testimony
they were receiving in regard to the truth
of the Gospel, said this knowledge was only
received through revelation. She gave an
interesting sketch of her visit to Cedar
Fort, Fairfield and Lehi, where she had met
with the young people, who all seemed anx-
ious to be organized, gentlemen as well as
ladies; she had done a great deal of talking
in regard to the movement now in progres-
sion, and thought that more especially among
the young people, her labors had been ap-
preciated.  Many instructive and applica-
ble remarks were made by Counselors Z. D.
Young, P. Woodruff, and E. Howard, also
E. S. Barney upon the different branches of
Home Manufacture. Sister E. A. Whitney
sang "a song of Zion" which thrilled through
every heart in the whole assembly. Some
business relating to clothing for the Indians
was also transacted.
	EPHRAIM, SANPETE Co., April 30, 1874.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It being some time since the organization
of the "Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation" of Ephraim, I am requested to
write you in regard to the association. Our
meetings were suspended during the win-
ter, but were again resumed on the 6th of
last March. Our President, Miss Carrie
Jensen, is anxious to have the meetings
[Column 2]
continue, that we may become useful. We
all hope that in time, we may be of some
use in the kingdom of God.
	Respectfully,
		HELEN E. ARMSTRONG,
							Secretary.
	BOUNTIFUL, DAVIS Co., April 20th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is prospering. We
intend having a Fair next month, the pro-
ceeds to go towards building a new hall.
Many of our sisters seem to realize that this
work is a mission placed upon them, and
are willing to forward it to the best of their
ability.
	I give here a few particulars of our last
meeting. Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs. Bar-
ney, Mrs. Steel and Mrs. Snider from Salt
Lake City were here; Bishop Call and other
gentlemen were also present.
	Meeting was opened with prayer by Mrs.
Zina D. Young. A Circular was read before
the meeting, soliciting the united influence
of the sisters, in sustaining Home Manufac-
ture.
	Mrs. Barney made some very excellent
and spirited remarks on Home Industry
showing how very necessary it was for us to
be a self-sustaining people, and help to
builb up Zion, &c.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young spoke on silk culture,
told how to raise Mulberry Trees. Encour-
aged the sisters to raise silk-worms, so that
silk and ribbons might be made in our midst.
Counseled them to cultivate the spirit of 
God, and give their children good teach-
ings.
	Several other ladies spoke on different
branches of Home Industry.
	Bishop Call spoke words of comfort and
encouragement to the sisters, he felt that
they held a high and responsible position
and could accomplish a great deal towards
building up the kingdom of God.
	Other Elders present made some very ex-
cellent remarks. The gifts of the Gospel
were manifested in our midst to our great
joy. We realized the Holy Spirit in our
hearts, bearing witness that we were ap-
proved by our Father in heaven.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
	Benediction by Elder Atkinson.
	ELIZABETH H. BARLOW, President.
				MARY CARTER, Secretary.
	The following is a brief synopsis of the
Minutes of a Meeting, for the Organization
of the Young Ladies of the 13th Ward, S.
L. City.
		Residence of Prof. C. J. Thomas,
						March 13th, 1875.
	Meeting opened by singing, "O my Fa-
ther &c.—On motion of Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant was chosen to preside
over the meeting—Prayer by Mrs. Z. D.
Young—Singing, "Joy to the world, &c.
	Pres. Mrs. Grant spoke concerning the ob-
ject of the meeting, after which Mrs. Eliza-
beth Goddard was appointed Secretary pro.
tem., and the organization of the Rentrench-
ment Association effected as follows, by
unanimous vote, viz.:
	Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas, President,
	Miss Flora Shipp,		}
	"	Mary Ann McClean,}
	"	Ruth Woolley,		}
	"	Lillie Taylor,		}	Counselors.
	"	Lucy Stringam,	}
	"	May Wells,		}
	"	Louisa A. Ashby, Secretary,
	"	Annie Park, Assistant Secretary.
	On motion Miss Ruth Woolley was ap-
pointed to lead in Singing—Miss Annie
[Coumn 3]
Park was chosen Organist and Mrs. Fannie
Y. Thatcher Assistant Organist. After
which twenty-three young ladies were ad-
mitted as members, by unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Grant then addressed the Associa-
tion, exhorting all to be punctual in attend-
ance at meetings, and not let any trifling
consideration stand in their way. She re-
lated some of her own experience by way
of encouragement, in overcoming diffidence
by practice—how she had gradually gained
confidence, &c.
	Sister Grant was followed by Sister E. R.
Snow speaking words of encouragement to
the young ladies—bearing testimony of the
power of the Gospel, that the same mani-
festations were now produced as were expe-
rienced when Jesus and the ancient apostles
were on the earth. She said it was the
privilege of the young as well as the aged
to be in possession of the gifts of the Gos-
pel, such as healing the sick, prophesying,
speaking in tongues, interpreting, &c. That
the Spirit of God produced the purest and
greatest happiness that mortals can enjoy.
She related very interesting incidents that
occurred in the Kirtland Temple, and ex-
horted her young sisters to live for eternal
blessings, and fulfill the object of their
birth, by becoming noble women, saviors on
Mount Zion &c. Said she would like an
expression whether to fill the offices unto
which they had been chosen.
	Each of the young ladies arose by turn,
and expressed their satisfaction in being
present and participating in the privilege
which was accorded, and not only a willing-
ness but a determination, to fill their posi-
tions and discharge their duties in faithful-
ness.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young expressed her pleasure
in being present on this occasion. Testified
to having witnessed many manifestations of
power by the out-pouring of the Spirit of
God. Had heard singing of angels, seen
the sick healed, and she bore testimony that
many are made whole through the adminis-
tration of the sacred ordinances. Spoke of
the first time she read the Book of Mormon,
and how sacred it seemed to her. Exhorted
the young ladies to improve their great
privileges, &c.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards and Mrs. E. Thomas
gave much useful instruction—bore corrobo-
rative testimonies of the power of God
which they had witnessed in, and from their
childhood up to the present, and counseled
the young sisters to live for, and attain to a
fulness of blessing. 
	Meeting adjourned for one week—Sing-
ing, "Praise God from whom &c. Benedic-
tion by Mrs. E. Goddard.
					L. A. Ashby, Sec.
	SALT LAKE CITY May 10th, 1875.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request of President Mrs. Rachel
Grant, I hand you the Sixth Annual Report
of the 13th Ward Relief Society meeting,
held in the 13th Ward Vestry, April 22nd,
1875. Showing that the Receipts, with a
small balance from last Report:
Amount in cash to.........................$208 00
Disbursed to the needy,.................. 206 10
	Leaving a balance in cash of.......90
Merchandise, clothing, etc., in Trea-
	sury from last report, valued at 80 00
Receipts in same during the past
	year......................................... 115 85
Disbursed to the needy................... 110 55
	Leaving a balance valued at..... 91 02


Cash invested in 13th ward Co-op
	and Saving Bank, with interest
	of the same, amounts to.......... 376 66
Work estimated........................... 28 75
	The meeting convened for reading the
Report, was well attended by the sisters a
good spirit prevailing.
	President Mrs. Grant regretted that so
little had been accomplished in the shape of
work, but was well pleased with the general
spirit of the meetings. Felt glad that we
were increasing in numbers and improving
in the good work, manifesting a more ear-
nest desire to be united, and be useful in
the Kingdom of God. Expressed a desire
to encourage and sustain Home Manufac-
ture.
	The sisters donate freely towards the
building of the Temple and other laudable
purposes. Most of them I believe, feel in-
terested in, and appreciate your valuable pa-
per.
	ELIZABETH H. GODDARD Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		FEMALE JOURNALISM.
	Extracts from a paper read in the "Sec-
ond Woman's Congress," by Mrs. Malloy,
connected with the press at Elkhart Indi-
ana. Woman is pre-eminently fitted for the
profession of journalism. There are hun-
dreds of women in America, who would be
a grand acquisition to the profession; aud I
am surprised that there are not more
choosing it. Newspaper work however
means business, and a lazy person cannot
be a successful editor. The person who en-
ters the journalistic work, expecting to find
it a plant that will thrive in a soil of in-
dolence, will be grandly disappointed. But
to the woman who comes to the work,
bringing all her talents, her heart and her
persistence, success is inevitable. Woman's
talents, her intuitions, her adaptability, as
well as her remarkable patience, are all in
her favor.
	The idea that women are not as thorough
in details as men are is an erroneous one;
let a woman educated as a reporter, walk be-
side the male reporter, aud she will see as
much again in a walk down street as he will,
and can draw just as largely upon her im-
agination. Girls employed in offices are
just as efficient as men, and much more re-
liable, for they never get on a "spree."
Women will purify newspaper literature,
dignify the type of journalism, of which so
much has been said, and written.
	No obscure or corrupting advertisements
will appear in their columns; and the effect
of such literature upon crime will be dimin-
ished.
	The successful country publisher, must
have fine executive, as well as financial abil-
ity; indomitable energy and perseverance-
large hope, suavity and benevolence: all
these requisite qualifications form element;
ary parts of woman's nature.
	The newspaper should be the family edu-
cator, and woman's tact, and woman't heart
is much needed in that line: we need more
heart in our journalism.
	If we were to judge of a city by its news,
papers, we should conclude that all affection-
feeling or even respect for the dead were
forgotten in the whizz and whirr of busi-
ness.
	There is just as much difference in jour-
nalists as there is in other folks; the true
journalist occupies a position much more
enviable in the public affections than the
physician. The world is full of hungry
hearts, and the journalist who meets their
demand, will never lack for work to do.
Journalists, like poets, "are born, not made."
[Column 2]
	There are many women in American, who
possess this faculty to a happy extent; there
are few perhaps, who could evince such
striking originality as Mrs. Swissholm, Mrs.
Stanton, Miss Anthony, Mrs. Soule, Mrs.
Livermore, or Mrs. Julia Ward Howe; so
striking, that every newspaper in the coun-
try is glad to copy their original utterances.
But notwithstanding all this, many a woman
can make herself necessary in a community
as a journalist.
	We can't all be great women or men, but
we can dignify the humbler places, by do-
ing our work well.
	I do not believe that every woman could
be a successful journalist, but that many a
fine journalist is at the present time, pining
in milliner and dress-making shops, and
over the wash-tubs and ironing-boards. I
have tried all these branches, and was a
miserable failure in them all; but in journal-
ism I have succeeded, at least, pecuniarily;
this work never seemed a burden to me,
while the others were too grievous to be
borne. There is less opposition to encoun-
ter in this business, than in any other of the
professions so largely occupied by men. The
men in this profession are usually the large-
hearted, most liberal, unselfish and charita-
ble men in the world.
	In newspaper life you move with the world.
We need more journals to work for the de-
velopment of our resources, and for reforms.
Woman has hungered and thirsted for a
larger field of action, until it is late in the
afternoon of the nineteenth century. It is
vain to wait for man's hand to open the
door, and press the sweet chalice to your
lips; she who would be free must herself
strike the blow. And with a few hundred
women journalists in this country, ready to
strike for the right—I would be willing to
risk the elevation, prosperity, happiness and
final emancipation of American women;
emancipation from all folly, yea, in the
broadest sense of the word.


WHAT A WOMAN SHOULD BE.

	Personal attractions most girls possess, at
any rate in a sufficient degree to render
them attractive to somebody; for, although
there are standards and models of beauty,
yet these do not prevail with all persons.
There is something wonderful in the differ-
ence of aspect which the same face wears to
different beholders. Probably the philo-
sophical explanation of this is, that what is
hidden from all others becomes immediately
and instinctively apparent to the eye of love.
How can a moderately good-looking girl in-
crease her attractions? By culture. She
must cultivate her mind. An ignorant, il-
literate woman, if even she attracts atten-
tion, cannot retain the interest of an intelli-
gent man. She must do this by reading, by
study, by reflection, and by familiar con-
versation with the best and most highly ed-
ucated persons with whom she comes in
contact. But the heart must be cultivated
as well as the head. "Of all things," ex-
claimed a most refined gentleman after
nearly a lifetime's familiarity with the best
society, "of all things give me a softness and
gentleness in a woman." A harsh voice, a
coarse laugh—trifles like these—have often
spoiled many a favorable first impression.
The cultivation of the heart must be real,
not feigned. A woman who studies to ap-
pear, rather than be, good and generous,
seldom succeeds in deceiving the opposite
sex in these respects. She who, in truth,
seeks earnestly to promote the happiness of
those around her, is very apt soon to obtain
admirers among men. Above all other re-


quisites in a woman is conscientiousness.
Without this one touchstone of character,
no matter what her charms and acquire-
ments, she cannot expect to command the
lasting regard of any man whose love is
worth having.—Glasgow Weekly Mail.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	ENGLAND has 800,000 more women than
men.
	A sixteen-pound cauliflower is the latest
astonisher in San Bernardino.
	EMIGRANTS to the number of 34,255 have
arrived in California overland since the first
of April last year.
	OVER 100 houses are contracted for in
Santa Rosa, all to be erected during the
coming summer.
	THE Steele Bros. of San Luis Obispo
have sold $200,000 worth of land within
the last ten months.
	THE shipment of oranges and lemons
from Los Angelos this season will average
in value $40,000 per month.
	FRANCE has 123,000 manufacturing es-
tablishments, using steam-power of 500,000
horse power and giving employment to
about 800,000 hands.
	DURING January 8,890 gallons of free
soup were furnished in Boston to 10,739
families, comprising 50,365 persons, at the
expense to the city of $1,823.


FLORAL HINTS.
	Those who love flowers, and to see them
growing, will be sorry to know that the
oleander is dangerous. A single drop of
the juice which exudes when a twig or leaf
is broken off, is sufficient to produce the
death of an infant. Children have been
poisoned by eating the flower petals. Cat-
tle have died from browsing on its foliage.
Lovely as it [ink blot] we must in view of
these facts [ink blot] part with it. I is al-mv
so proven [ink blot] exhaled from it is
deleterious to health.
	“About Fuci[--]s."—A lady writing to
"Ladies Floral Cabinet," says she re-
pots Fuchias in May, puts them on the
north side of the house giving them but
little water. In summer they drop most
of their leaves, bring them in the house be-
fore the frost comes and water freely, giv-
ing them liquid manure about once a month;
also soot tea is excellent, as it sweetens the
earth. By observing these directions the
plants will bloom all winter; they will grow
so fast after a season of rest as to astonish
you. Carnations do equally well by keep-
ing them in the ground in summer in their
pots and pinching off the buds until August.
All carnations do not bloom in winter.
	Calla Lily.—This plant will flower in
spring if not in July. Place them for two
months in full sun; after that shake them
clean out, and repot; grow on as usual, and
they will flower the next year.


MRS. Pollen of Lexington, Mass., placed
upon her house the legend "A greater war
now in progress the rights of woman—
1875."
	MRS. Elizabeth Tuttle of East Boston
now in her 100th year, ascends two flights
of stairs and dresses and undresses without
aid. She never has a fire in her bed-room,
not even in the coldest weather.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENET.
		L. GRENE RICHARDS, Editor.
	CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine, Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00: A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
Address all business comunications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY. MAY 15, 1875


SPLINTERS.
		GENERAL.
	Dr. Linderman. director of the mint, has
been assigned by President Grant, to invcs-
tigate Mississippi Valley for the most suita-
ble location for a mint......The sheriff of
New York city has issued attachments against
the property of Tweed.....Mr. A. B. Stone
of Cleveland purchased at auction in St.
Louis the Mississippi Valley and Western
Railroad for $600,000.....The Public School
Teachers’ Association of Baltimore have
raised $1500 to erect a monument to the
memory of Edgar A. Poe......The British
government has sent a frigate to survey
Baffin’s Bay and the North Atlantic......May
4th, Senior Antonio Cautilla who represents
the Spanish Republic, presented his creden-
tials to the President as Minister from the
King of Spain......$50,000 damage by fire at
Tompkinsville, N. Y., May 8th......The har-
bor of Buffalo, N. Y., is gorged with ice......
Hard times in Missouri in consequence of
grasshoppers, chintz-bugs, etc.....Ten Chi-
namen have received the rite of baptism in
 the Baptist Church at Portland in Oregon
........$50,000 damage by fire at Black Rock
near Buffalo, N. Y......Vice-President Wil-
son made a speech at Nashville, Tenn., May
6th......Oregon promises fine crops this sea-
son......Heavy seas, several ships recently
lost......Fifteen thousand dollars worth of
jewelry and watches were lately stolen from
an Albany jewelry store in one night.
			FOREIGN.
	Gladstone and Lord Kinnacid have at-
tended some of Moody and Sankey's revival
meetings in London; these meetings are be-
coming not only populat but fashionable.....
The Spanish government have paid to the
United States the last of the Virginius in-
demnity......Union League Club House at
the corner of 26th and Madison Avenue N.
Y. was considerably damaged by fire on the
25th of April; loss $36,000.....The Roths-
childs have issued a prospectus of a new
Russian loan of $15,000[ink splot] per cent
interest......The ceremo[ink splot]ist wash-
ing the feet of His Apostle[ink splot] evived on
Good Friday of this year by Dr. Bagshawe,
Roman Catholic Bishop, of Nottingham Eng-
land......Hepworth Dixon is writing a new
book on America, suggested by his recent
visit here......The Bishop of Breslau in
Prussia has been required to resign his office;
he refuses to comply with the conditions of
the decree......The King of Spain has con-
ferred on Prince Bismarck the order of the
Golden Fleece......At a recent sale in Lon-
don a letter of Queen Mary brought $405,
one of Queen Elizabeth $410, autographs of
Mary Queen of Scotts $285, of Burns $300
......The Khedive of Egypt has established
three judgeships to be held in his capital by
English lawyers......A woman's temperance
club has been organized in Calcutta, the first
movement of that kind ever made in that
far-off country......The Prince of Wales was
installed as Grand Master of the United
Grand Lodge of Masons at Royal Albert Hal
April 28th, in presence of a large assembly
......Count de Harcourt has been appointed
French Minister to London.........Dispatch
May 6th, from Bombay says the Cholera is
prevailing in the city of Baroda.........Mr.
Forsyth, M. P., says the Woman Sufferage
Movement in England was never brighter
in its prospects than now......Judge Kerros,
United States Consular Agent at Brest, is
dead;..... The Lord Mayor of Dublin gives a
banquet to the American rifle team on their
arrival; the Lord Mayor of London will be
present in state......It is rumored the arrest
[Column 2]
of the Madrid professors will bring about
the fall of the Spanish Ministry.
			PERSONAL.
	Senior editor of the Boston "Evening
Transcript," Henry W. Dutton, died April
15th, aged 79 years......Dr. Hartwell Carver
died in Pittsford near Rochester, N. Y.
April 16th; he was one of the first advo-
cates for connecting the Atlantic and Pacific
by railroad......Commander Leroy Fitch, of
the U. S. N., died at Logansport, Ind,, April
13th......S. R. Stephens, the sculptor, is dead.
Col. Charles Green, editor of the "Boston
Post,” retires from journalism after forty-
four years service........Michael Levy, the
well-known Paris publisher, is dead.....The
Pope is under the care of his physicians.....
Mr. Stillman Witt, a prominent railroad man,
and citizen of Cleveland, Ohio, is dead......
Stephens, the sculptor of the unfinished
monument to Wellington in St. Paul’s Ca-
thedral, is dead......The late General Shiras
was a physical curiosity, never having de-
veloped any teeth......Mr. Curtis S. Burn-
ham has been appointed Assistant Secretary
of the U. S. Treasury......Jean Frederick
De Waldeck, the famous traveller and artist,
died very recently in Paris aged 110 years
......The Marquis of Loraine and his wife,
the Princess Louise, intended making an ex-
tended tour through the United States this
summer......The notorious Bender has been
for some time confined in Arizona, but lately
escaped......Ex-Speaker Blaine and Secreta-
ry Bristow are reported aspirants for the 
Presidency.


SPEAK WITH A PURPOSE.

	Prominent among the leading follies of the
day, and one which should be assiduously
guarded against, is the senseless, idle gossip so
common in society. Friends meet and they
must say something, whether there is anything
of importance to communicate or not. If
nothing of more consequence is at hand than
the whims, peculiarities or even short-comings
of neighbors and acquaintances, these must be
ruthlessly canvassed. And in all such conver-
sations, everything must be worked up in the
most brilliant colors, to highten vivacity and
increase interest.
	It is a common thing to spend half a day or
an evening in social chat, and then take leave
of friends without feeling in the smallest de-
gree benefitted. Once is a while a friend is
met with, who has a mind stored with profita-
ble knowledge, which is dealt out whenever
the lips are opened for utterance. Never un-
duly grave, speaking with animation and pro-
priety, adorning even timely jokes with intelli-
gence. Two minutes conversation with such a
person refreshes the spirit, gladdens the heart,
and gives more satisfaction than days or weeks
spent with the commonalty.


All this helps to prove, that the display of
vanity, rather than the exercise of wisdom, is
popular; and that, certainly, a great reform
should take place in this matter.
	So much is said to no purpose, or that is pro-
ductive only of evil, that it would evidently be
better for the world if two-thirds of its inhabi-
tants spent two-thirds of their time in silence.
Yet silence is not a necessity, or the best reme-
dy for the evil in question. Conversation of
the right sort is agreeable and good. The
world is full of beautiful and pleasant things,
and there is no end to the intelligence which
may be gained.  It is as easy to talk of these
things as to talk fashionable "little nothings,"
if knowledge concerning them is but sought.
	Think more and speak less, would be an ex-
cellent maxim for many.  For without thought
and studious reflection, it is useless to speak at
all; as an idle mind is sure to give utterance to
idle words.


IS THERE MONEY IN IT?

	Those who ask this question; are usually
practical people, who always see everything in
a proper light, and never suffer their imagina-
tion to rule, but make it subordinate to reason,
and their pre-conceived ideas, and strong pow-
ers of judgment; these are the people who get
on in the world, who attain social eminence,
and make themselves popular.
	They bring all their powers to this culminat-
ing point; they strike boldly for a certain fig-
ure; and every faculty they possess is trained,
to serve the one great aim and object they are
in pursuit of, the acquirement of wealth; facts
with them are substantial things; foundations
upon which to build their positive schemes;
relatively they are dollars and cents; positive-
ness is one of their elementary essentials; and
they have no use for any adjuncts, except such
as form secure stepping stones towards reach-
ing the pinnacle of power; that power, influ-
ence and position which money will command.
	They check and smother every generous im-
pulse to which they may be prompted by inci-
dental circumstances; romance must not creep
unwarily into their hearts, they shut them-
selves so closely in their narrow channel of
thought and feeling, that they almost distrust
those who prefer anything else before money.
	Even Spring, in its glowing, blushing beau-
ty, has no charm for them, save the general
brightening up of business, and the consequent
increase, or influx in the money market; the
songs of birds, the merry hum of bees, the
magnificant display of Nature's works in this
poetic season of the year, are all lost upon
them, because really, they have no time for
such trifling considerations; in fact it is all very
real and commonplace. Buds and blossoms
simply foretell the coming fruit, and that
will be marketable with a relative value in dol-
lars and cents; the pleasure derived from these
trifling sources is all moonshine and nonsense,
very well for people who have nothing better
or more engrossing to occupy their attention;
but their investment is not in beauty, art, or
science, but in solid and reliable stock. If they
should linger by the way, to admire the beauti-
ful, or worship the divine, some one of their
competitors in this rapid and all-absorbing
chase might surpass them.
	They concentrate all their available forces on
the making of a certain point. If they ever
reach this earthly fruition of their ardent
hopes, then they intend to sit down and rest
and also to reflect. Would it not be better to
be wise and take in some good, full, exhilarat-
ing draughts of happiness as we go along, in-
stead of waiting worn and exhausted to reach


the end of the road, too much enfeebled at last
to relish with a true zest, the rich blessings of
life's earlier years? Passing by that which, in
our days of poverty, might have been a solace
and comfort, and yearning only for such things
as are left for wealth to command; how often
these prove only sticks and straws, and we
with powers and energies wasted, without serv-
ing any particular purpose, or accomplishing
any real permanent good, must sink into ob-
livion, and leave the hoards of accumulated
property for the next generation to dispose of,
enjoy, or squander.
								B. B.
	May 10th, 1871.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EXPERIENCE BRINGS KNOWLEDGE

	I have long desired to bear my testimony to
my beloved sisters through the EXPONENT,
having had a long experience in the church and
kingdom of God. It is now forty-four years
and a half since I embraced the everlasting
Gospel; during that time I have witnessed
many striking examples of God's goodness and
care manifested towards His people.
	If I did not speak in defense of the truth of
the principles revealed to Joseph the Prophet,
I should feel under condemnation.
	I know and I can bear a solemn witness that
I have heard the voice of the Lord through Jo-
seph, giving promise to all that endure unto
the end, and also that he would own none but
the tried ones.
	How terrible for any to fall away, after re-
ceiving the truth! but the laws of God are pure
and holy, and cannot be trifled with. No one
must undertake to mix them with Spiritual-
ism, it will not answer to trifle with that and
expect to be justified in the sight of God, and
retain sufficient of His Spirit to abide in the
faith.
	Timothy said, "Take heed that you be not
deceived for many shall say 'I am Christ,' and
deceive many." I have seen many strong and
powerful in this Gospel who have fallen away
and even denied our blessed Savior; where then
can they turn for atonement and salvation?
	To my sisters, and especially to the young, I
would say, shun infidelity as you would a serpent
lest it charm and beguile and then destroy you.
	And one thing more before I close. The or-
der of Celestial Marriage, revealed through
the Prophet Joseph to this people, and taught
by himself to my husband and to me, I bear
you a solemn witness, is true. It was confirmed to
us by vision, and the glory and exaltation which
will be received through this ordinance sur-
passes all mortal powers of comprehension. I
have never seen any one who turned from it,
or against it prosper; if they had light, it has
been turned to darkness; I know the sealing
power and blessing is with this people, and the
keys of this ministry are now upon the earth.
My young sisters I have been intimately ac-
quainted with this doctrine ever since its pro-
mulgation, have lived in it, and expect to
throughout eternity. I was the very first moth-
er who gave her daughter in that sacred ordi-
nance in this generation; and I fully realized
what I was doing. A few others had acted up-
on their own responsibility. but she was given
by father and mother with our full and free
consent. Many of the promises then pro-
nounced by Joseph the prophet upon my head
have since been fulfilled.
	Humility and meekness, my sisters, will pre-
pare us all to ask in faith for the things we
need and to receive the testimony of Jesus, also
that portion of His Holy Spirit which is nec-
essary to guide us into all truth and assist us to
overcome all things. If I continue to revive

[Column 2]
through faith and the prayers of my sisters, I
will bear another testimony at a future time
through these columns.
	O how I rejoice in the work of my sisters; my
prayers and testimony are all I can give you; I
am weak and feeble in body, but strong and
steadfast in the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant. God bless my sisters in establishing the
Home Industries! He has called you to help in
this work, it is going to succeed; everything
you do in it, every effort you make, pray God
to bless; no matter how trifling a thing it is,
and you will always feel the promptings of the
Holy Spirit to influence you in the right di-
rection.
	I can see the prophecies of Joseph upon the
head of Sister Eliza R. Snow are being fulfilled
daily. She stands at the head of a great mis-
sion (I allude now more particularly to the
Home Industries). May God give her great
wisdom to lead out in this immense labor, and
may we all follow in the true channel, is my
earnest prayer for each mother in Israel and
daughter in Zion; and I bless you all in the
name of Jesus.
		Your Sister,
			  ELIZABETH ANN. WHITNEY.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	PROFESSOR W. H. Bremer, of Yale College,
recently visited Salt Lake.
	THE MAY term of the Third District Court
commenced Monday morning, May 3rd, Judge
Lowe presiding.
	THIS ISSUE ends the third volume of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Send in your subscrip-
tions, friends, for the fourth volume.
	THE UTAH Western Railway Company have
received a new locomotive, the "Edward Hun-
ter;" also new passenger and freight cars.
	PROF. JOHN M. Coyner, Ph. D., principal of
the Salt Lake City Collegiate Institute, expects
to issue a monthly periodical devoted to educa-
tion.  The first number will appear about the
middle of June.
	ON THE first of May most of the schools and
many private parties indulged in rambles over
the hills and through the vallies, around the
city. There was one excursion of children and
young people to American Fork Canyon.  The
Mason's Relief Fund Excursion, composed of
about three hundred persons, went to Lake
Point. Wetzel's band in attendance. They
had a sail on the Lake in the steamer. The
entertainment and accomodations at Clinton's
Hotel are highly spoken of.


PUTTING THINGS AWAY

		FOR MEN TO READ

	Do women ever think how much time they spend
in picking up and putting away? Of course we do
not mean to intimate that it is wasted. or that all
this labor is done unnecessarily.  Women have
a vast amount of such work to perform, and few
men realize its extent or its necessity until some ac-
cident or circumstance brings it home to them.
A married man said once, that he never realized
the amount of work done in bringing things out
and putting them away, until he happened to sit
idly, watching the operation of setting the table
—"getting tea," as it was called at a neighbor's 
house, washing the dishes and clearing them away.
It struck him, for the first time how much real
labor had to be done in lifting and carrying between
table and pantry and he determined to lessen such
labor in his house as much as possible, by con-
structing a kitchen in his house with every facility
and convenience. He thought, with a sort of cou-


sternation, if one "tea" requires that amount of
labor, what must the work of a house for a life-
time amount to? A very pretty problem, which
we should like to have answered.
	It is a fact, however, that "putting things away"
becomes a sort of mania, with some neat house-
wives; and not only gives them a vast amount of 
trouble, but sours their temper, and is a source of
annoyance to every member of the family.  From
a habit probably of being upon the same spot all
the time, eternally seeing and doing the same
things, it becomes a sort of mania, and in fact, a
symptom of disease.  We think a good plan, in
such a case, would be, for the husband to insist on
his wife taking a journey, making a visit home, or
spending a couple of weeks at a watering place.
The change of scene, the breaking up of the mon-
otony of her life would do her a world of good.
Her ideas would become enlarged; her thoughts
travel out of their accustomed routine, and when
she returned she would take up life less as a bur-
den, and more as a basket of flowers, from which
it is possible to extract beauty and fragrance.
								R. N. Y.


ASPARAGUS.

	We advise all our friends who own a garden or 
farin to plant a bed of this delicious vegetable.
There is no crop more sure, and no vegetable more
palatable at the same season of the year.  Once
planted it continues to yield freely for many years,
and if well cared for, will produce large and fine
stalks.  There is said to be several varieties.  We
think that the soil and the treatment make the
difference, rather than the variety.  Formerly the
one or two year old roots were set quite deeply,
say one foot deep in the trenches; but within a 
few years the practice has somewhat changed, as it
cannot be had so early by deep planting. We
should not advise planting it more than four or six
inches.  The young plants should not be covered
more than two inches deep when set, or they will
be likely to decay.  The earth can be drawn in
gradually during the summer.  The rows may be
three and a half or four feet apart, and the plants
in the row about a foot apart.—"Utah Pomolog-
ist."


WOMEN SKETCHED BY NOVELISTS.
	Mrs. Fawcette delivered a lecture recently, at
Cross-hill, near Glasgow, on some of the women
characters of Dickens, Thackeray, and George Eli-
ot. She observed that Dickens' heroines were as
a rule, imbecile and idiotic, fascinating and under-
sized. Dickens drew some splendid caricatures of
female failings and some wonderfully amusing
characters, but they were unlike any person who
ever lived. He lacked true insight into women's
hearts. The women of Thackeray and George
Elliot, on the other hand, breathed and lived be-
fore us; with that, however, the likeness between
the women of Thackeray and George Eliot ceased.


MRS. Fitzgerald of San Antonio, Texas,
has taken a contract to grade nineteen miles
of railroad.
	Lady Petre a celebrated patron of Catho-
lic charitable organizations in London, is
endeavoring to establish a night home in
that city, for girls and single women who
are engaged through the day, in industrial
occupations.
	Fanny Sewald an author of note who
has been aptly styled the George Sand of 
Germany, has become interested in the
Woman question, and has written some able
letters on the subject. She is a woman of
great talent and brilliant education.  Her
husband is also an author of fine repute in
Germany.  Professor Adolph Stahr.  Her
home is in Berlin, where she collects around
her the most noted literary people of the 
day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
			INTEMPERANCE.

				A PRAYER.

Oh, God, save our land from this withering curse,
Than famine or pestilence worse, oh far worse!
Send these, or send earthquakes 'til earth reel again,
But oh, let mankind in true manhood remain!

We can give unto death, though with deep, bitter pain,
For we know we will meet them in heaven again.
But oh, save our loved from the fiend of the cup,
And from the red anguish its victims must sup!

We can bear to look down on the still, sleeping face,
When but pain at the parting, within us has place:
When remembrance is sweet and no shadow of shame
E'er cast its foul blight on our dear one's fair name.

But to look on God's image when reason's laid low,
And drown'd in the wine-cup's fierce, seething flow,
Is anguish unspeakable, love-blighting woe,
Which none but the stricken ones ever can know!

Save us from this curse and our soul's thanks shall rise
On the wings of the Morning high up to the skies,
And glad songs in Zion in sweet notes shall ring
With praise to our God, to our Father and King.
									HOPE.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Cup Cake.—One coffee-cup butter, two no. sugar,
three do. flour, one do. sweet milk, three teaspoon-
fuls baking powder, six eggs leaving out the yelks.
Flavor to suit.
	Corn Meal Pudding.—One pint boiling milk
with one pint meal stirred in; one pint cold milk,
two eggs, one half-cup sugar; salt and spice; bake
two hours and a half.
	Chocolate Custard.—Four tablespoonfuls of
grated chocolate one half-pint water, let it boil ten
minutes, pour in three pints of custard made in
the usual way: it is a very nice dessert.
	To Prevent Tin Rusting.—Rub fresh lard over
every part of the dish, put it into a hot oven and
heat thoroughly.  Tin ware thus treated. may, it
is said be used and remain bright indefinitely.
	Corn Starch Cake.—The whites of two eggs
well beaten, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one of
corn-starch, one and a half cup sweet milk, one
half-cup thick cream, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder.
	Chicken Cheese.—An excellent [---]cling lunch:
boil the chickens tender, take out all the bones,
chop fine, season with salt, pepper and butter, add
enough of the liquor in which they were boiled to
make them moist—mold in any shape you choose
and when cold cut in slices.


[Column 1]
		HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Linen, cotton and woolen next the
skin.—Linen absorbs too much moisture,
which when evaporating cools it. Cotton
for summer, and woolen for winter is better.
Woolen will not absorb much moisture, and
consequently keeps the body an equal tem-
perature.  But the woolen should be soft,
fine and even as possible.  There are some
skins so sensitive as not to be able to toler-
ate woolen at all.  For such persons knit
cotton under-clothing is the best substitute.
	About beds.—Beds that last a long time
and cannot be cleaned and purified are ob-
jectionable. Feather beds for the aged have
their advantages, but when used should be
sunned often, and purified frequently. For
others a tolerably hard bed is the best, and
one which will allow the air to circulate
freely through it, and permit a thorough
cleansing.  Graham the vegetarian, used,
when keeping school to sleep on the benches
to harden himself.
	THE TEETH.—The tooth brush should be
moderately soft and have rounded edges
both of bristles and handle; brushing should

[Column 2]
never exceed from ten to twenty sec-
onds; the water should not be so cold as to
cause uneasiness to the teeth; the inner
surface of the teeth should be even more
carefully done than the outer; great caution
should be taken in regard to brushing the
gums from off the teeth.  Dr. Flagg says
tooth powders containing insoluble ingredi-
ents such as ground barks and especially
pulverized charcoal do not prevent decay of
the teeth, and are very injurious by their
insinnation under the margin of the gums
Soap as an adjunct in cleaning the teeth, has
proved very efficacious in preventing decay.
Of late years some of the most noted anti-
septics, such as creosote, carbolic acid etc;
have been used; conjoined to some of the
saponaceous compounds have wrought won-
ders in the retardation and arrestation of
caries. Together with these or any soaps,
it is advisable to use some frictional pow-
der, gentle or harsher according to require-
ments.  Precipitated chalk will sometimes
serve to prevent the yellowish discoloration
which is apt to accompany the use of soap
alone; but in some instances it is necessary
to use powdered cuttlefish bone or finely pul-
verized (levigated) pumice stone.  Some-
times when an acid condition of the mouth
is found to harm the teeth a grain or two
of carbonate of soda used in the water for
brushing the teeth, or lime water, made by
pulverizing a piece of lime the size of a
walnut and putting it into a pint bottle of
water, shake and allow it to settle, pour off
the first water, refill and it is fit for use.
	SHALL WOMEN STAND! OR SIT?—The 
Women's Physiological Society of Brooklyn,
and also a large number of the noble wo-
men in New York, are discussing the prac-
tice of compelling women to stand all day as
clerks and teachers, without the privilege
of sitting under the penalty, of at least a
reprimand.  There are physiological reasons
why women should not do it.  Added to
this, the unnatural way of supporting the
clothes from the waist, instead of making
the shoulders carry their weight, drags
down the whole muscular structure.  After
a time the muscles lose their power to con-
tract, all the organs drop a little out of
place. It is this that gives women the
tired, "all-gone" sensations so many are try-
ing to remedy.  Each clerk should have a
seat made to turn under the counter so she
could sit when not employed, and the girls
and coming generations would be great
gainers.  Let all humane people help agi-
tate this subject.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	SPRINGVILLE March 3rd, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	The influence of woman in society, can-
not be measured. To her is committed the
great and important trust of guiding the
young and imparting pure and holy impul-
ses to the infantile and tender mind. Who
can estimate her power in this direction, as
the custodian, (If I may be allowed so to
express myself) of the first thoughts that
roll through the mind of the embryo, or un-
developed man? What consequences hang
on the direction which that mind receives
from her!
	The mother, who is true to this precious
trust, will mildly, but firmly correct all that
she sees wrong, before it has been allowed
to become a fixed habit of the child. Es-
pecially, should she insist on the practice of
strict honesty, and should it bring home
strange toys, or other property, it should
be closely questioned as to how it came in-


to possession of them, and should the slight
est doubts be entertained of the child's
honesty too much labor and care cannot be
exercised to find the owner, restore the
property, if unjustly taken, and to make the
strongest impressions upon the mind of the
child of the evil of such a course, carefully
pointing out the law of God, against such
sins, the wrong which the child sustains
that has been unjustly deprived of its prop-
erty, and the future consequences of such
conduct.  In this way where early tenden-
cies to dishonesty exist they may be affec-
tionately checked, and a just regard to the
rights of others permanently established.
Reverence to God and superiors should be
early instilled.  How many children (shall
it be said in the church) yes truly, are al-
lowed to grow up without religious train-
ing; who are never taught to pray, to cast
an upward eye to Him, to whom they owe
life and all its blessings.  Such children of-
ten become men who have not the fear of
God before their eyes, to whom prayer is
irksome, rather than a pleasant duty, and
to whom the song of praise is an unwel-
come sound, who treat the worship of God
irreverently, and ridicule those who serve
him devoutly, who say sneeringly of such,
"Oh he is religious" making use of the ex-
pression as though they consider it adds to 
their manhood.  Thus, those who worship
God devoutly are called by them, fanatics,
and appear simple in their eyes.  No won-
der, then, that so many young people the
sons of parents who have been in the
church for a number of years, are becom-
ing infidel to the work of the Latter days,
as this condition is traceable in a great de-
gree to the neglect of early religious train-
ing.  Sisters, let us awake to our responsi-
bilities.  Let us prize, more than ever these
priceless gems of intelligence.  Let us de-
vote our lives to their improvement and cul-
ture, that in the never-ending future they
may be as stars in our unfading crown,
whose lustre shall add joy and gladness to
us for ever and ever.  Your sister in the
Gospel,
						OLIVIA EVANS.


DELICATE GIRLS

	Some very wise and learned people have
made the discovery that idleness, and the
"ennui" consequent upon it, is ruinous to
health. "The nerve forces are as self-de-
structive as an unrestrained locomotive en-
gine." Chronic cases of hysteria and many
other bodily ailments have been cured by
properly directed energies and efforts in
suitable employments. How much better
to be constantly and agreeably employed
than to be forever on the Doctor's hands.


The new College at Northampton is likely to
advance light upon the problem of higher educa-
tion for women.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, called a Woman Suf-
frage Meeting in New York, May 11th. at Union
League Hall. Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Car-
rie T. Burnham, Phobe W. Couzons, Matilda
Joslyn Page and Rev. C. B. Fotheringham were
the speakers on the occasion.
	South Boston Woman Suffrage Club held its
second meeting Tuesday May 4th. at Mrs. Lin-
coln's residence, corner Atlantic and Thomas
Streets. Informal addresses were made by Mrs.
Lucy Stone, and Henry B. Blackwell. Rev. E. N.
Rand, W. W. Doherty Esq. and Charles D Page
editor of the South Boston Gazette made very ap-
propriate and timely remarks.  It is anticipated
this Club will exert political, social and beneficial
influence upon the future of that community.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		STRONG MINDED WOMEN.
			ANOTHER VERSION.
	The following suggestions have been
drawn out by reading in the last issue of
Woman's Exponent, May 1st, an article
from a St. George correspondent, entitled
"Strong Minded Women."
	According to my idea of things, it is
creditable for any of the sisters to express
their views in a frank and quiet manner
through the EXPONENT. Though even this
is in contrariety to the old rule by which
woman has so long been taught that to
avoid over-stepping the bounds of propriety
she should keep in the back ground, where
she might possibly be seen but not heard.
But we are growing out of these stiff nar-
row ways; thanks to the precious light
which has beamed upon our understand-
ings.
	And now, most respectfully would I sug-
gest to those who hold such views, as are
expressed by the writer above mentioned,
in regard to the position of men and wo-
men, that it is always wise to consider both
sides of a question, before giving free range
to the imagination.
	I cannot help wondering why the term
"strong minded women," should be so ob-
jectionable, so abhorrent in its nature, as to
appall even the most timid and sensitive;
now that the truth—the great astounding
truth—that woman is positively possessed
of a mind as susceptible as that of man,
is dawning upon the world. To me it would
be a matter much more lamentable, to be
considered one of a weak mind or intellect,
than to be regarded as a "strong minded,"
energetic, persevering woman, who might
accomplish something worthy of note, even
if left to herself, independent of a man to
appear always "ahead of" her, to "lead"
that she might "follow," to "dictate" that
she might "obey!"
	Most men have affairs enough of their 
own to engross their attention, without
spending time to direct women in theirs.
If they can so much as listen to details con-
cerning the latter, and give counsel upon
the more important points, I think it is a
great thing.
	I believe I am fully prepared to substan-
tiate the assertion, that in well regulated
and wisely conducted families, there is very
little of the ruling power manifested, ex-
cept in each governing self.
	That there are women in existance who
undertake to "play the lord," to "rule their
husbands, their households, and as far as
possible every one around them," is a pain-
ful fact.  But why abuse the appellation
"strong minded," by applying it to such a
creature? She is simply a shrew. I have
known one such myself, and although she
might be correctly termed shrewd and cun-
ning, yet I do think she was one of the
most ignorant women I ever knew. She
"treated her husband as though he were in-
deed a child," and a very inferior child at
that. She was "masculine in her manner,"
and in physical strength too—much more
so than her husband. And he, I always be-
lieved, was afraid of her. Not that she was
"strong minded," but because of her pow-
erful arm, her untutored tongue and her
superior ability in using them. I do not
suppose any one ever thought of accusing
her of being "strong minded."
	But I know another style of woman, a
real lady; who considers it an honor to go
to the polls and vote, having informed her-
self in relation to the cause she is to 
strengthen by the power she holds, and us-
ing her right of balloting accordingly. Of
[Column 2]
course she belongs to the circle of "strong
minded" women in Utah. That is, she be-
lieves in women knowing something for
themselves, and acting at times from their
own responsibilities. As a wife, she is one
of the most faithful, affectionate and oblig-
ing that could possibly exist. Her wise
and noble husband (for she was too "strong
minded" to yield her womanhood to any
other type of man,) has but to request that
she comply with his wishes in matters of 
mutual interest, whether weighty or other-
wise, and both are satisfied. She has no
need to "obey," for she has sufficient
strength of mind to control her own will,
submitting it to his where their opinions
differ. But they generally see and under-
stand things alike; for husband and wife
both live near the Lord, on whom they rely
for wisdom, and it is given according to
their needs. They counsel together and fre-
quently the husband acknowledges the cor-
rect opinions of his wife, or compliments
her for bringing to light a bright idea.
	"Husbands living their religion and mag-
nifying the Priesthood," I cannot think
would desire to "dictate," or feel that their 
wives must "obey."
	True there are men who consider it their
right to command, and even to enforce obe-
dience from their wives, where their wishes
are not willingly complied with. But such,
I do not believe are good Latter-day Saints
or that their ways are approved of by God.
I hope that "strong minded" women, ac-
cording to my version, never under any
circumstances, get befooled into marrying
men of this sort. But I should think it
only fair for all such to be coupled with the 
strong handed, loud tongued women, who
would certainly prove their equals.
	It is always weak minded people who will
infringe upon the rights of others. They
must be weak in some points at least, or
they would better comprehend the designs
of their creation and existence here. Let
those court the society of the weak and
feeble minded who will; but for my friends,
my associates, and particularly for family
connections, give me strong, true minds all
the time.						INEZ.


FLOWERS.
	NO cross, no crown.
	OUT of debt, out of danger.
	FAR from court, far from care.
	TAKE away fuel, take away flame.
	COVETOUSNESS brings nothing home.
	THE master's eye makes the horse fat.
	HE that goes borrowing, goes sorrowing.
	ALL are not hunters that blow the horn.
	AN obedient wife, commands her husband.
	LET your face and hands, like the town
clock, tell how your inner works are going.
	LEISURE is sweet to those who have
earned it, but burdensome to those who get
it for nothing.
	THE habit of being always employed is a
great safeguard through life, as well as es-
sential to the culture of every virtue.
	TO find friends when we have no need of
them, and to want them when we have, are
both alike easy and common.
	ONE in a million do a heroic action; but
the little things that make up our life come
every day and every hour.
	IF ever God had failed one who trusted
him, you might doubt; but he never has,
therefore you should be confident.


If you love others, they will love you.
If you speak kindly to them they will
speak kindly to you. Love is repaid with
love, and hatred with hatred.
	Say the strongest things you can with
candor and kindness to a man's face; and
make the best excuse you can for him, with
truth and justice, behind his back.
	By six qualities shall a fool be known:
Anger without cause; speech without mo-
tive; inquiry without an object; putting
trust in a stranger; and wanting capability
to discriminate between a friend and a foe.
	To complain that life has no joys while
there is a single creature whom we can re-
lieve by our bounty, assist by our counsels,
or enliven by our presence, is to lament the
loss of that which we possess, and is just as
rational as to die of thirst with the full cup
in our hands.
	Help somebody worse off than yourself,
and you will feel that you are better off 
than you fancied. You may subdue an an-
gry man by bearing with him, but not by
answering him; that is as if the steel should
try to make the flint leave off giving sparks
by striking it again.
	He is a wiser man who sees his own im-
perfections than he who discovers a planet,
or is able to plan a campaign or build a 
fort. He is more a conqueror who quells
the baser passions within, and brings the an-
imal nature into subjection to the moral,
than he who subdues the world. He is a
stronger man who moulds society mentally
and morally, who is able to direct the for-
ces of the mind and soul, than he who suc-
cessfully fights with bulls and bears, or over-
comes a giant in mortal combat. He is
more a brave man, a hero, who dares to do
right, to brave popular indignation, than he
who stands unappalled at the cannon's
mouth; the one is as far above the other as
the mind and soul are superior to the body.


﻿ON a recent trial in Wales, to test the val-
idity of a will, it was proved that in 1868
the testator became impaired in intellect to
such an extent that he went to the post office
with a postage stamp on his forehead and
requested to be sent to a place he men-
tioned.
	THE designs for the twenty cent silver
piece were selected and approved lately by
Hon. H. R. Linderman, director of the
mint. The adverse design contains a sit-
ting figure of Liberty, with the word "Lib-
erty" inscribed on a shield, the whole sur-
rounded by thirteen stars.  Beneath the
figure is the date 1875.  On the reverse
side is the figure of an eagle, with the
words "twenty cents." The edge of the
coin will be perfectly smooth, in order to
distinguish it from the twenty-five cent
coin.
	THIS promises to be a pretty fair year for
centenarians, as during one month we have
read the obituaries of fourteen.  These
were: Richard Cotrell, of South Carolina,
119; Aunt Chloe, slave of the late General
S. F. Patterson, of Palmyra, N. C. 116; Ca-
hic-ca-te-da, the Quapaw chief, 115; Peggy
Hanger, of Staunton Va., and a negress in
the Mobile Poorhouse. 110; Dennis Tooney,
of Oxford, Mass., 108; John Hyndman, of
Fingal, Canada, and Michael O'Leary, of
Indianapolis, 105; Mrs. Pepin, of Vermont,
104; Mrs. Rosenburg, of South Carolina,
103; and John Poparrhegopolous, of Greece,
Alice Cooley, of Brookfield, Mass., Wm.
Warren, of Topeka, and Mrs. Winthord
Merrill, of Illinois, I00.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		DIVERSIONS.
	GIRLS' rights—kisses.
	GIRLS' lefts—old bachelors.
	PLAYED out—a retired actor.
	A RARE flower—the pink of politeness.
	A CLEAR case—an empty dry goods box.
	ALTHOUGH a lady's age is undeniably her
own, she does not own it.
	"TOM, what in the world put matrimony
in your head?" "Well, the fact is I was
getting short of shirts."
	AN editor who received a letter in which
weather was spelt "wethur," says it was the 
worst spell of weather he had ever seen.
	AN Augusta school-ma'am woke up a
bookseller at four o'clock, the other morn-
ing, to get a key to an arithmetic."
	A BOOKLYN sewing-society fines any
member who talks scandal, $1 for each of-
fense; only the wealthy are able to attend.
	A LITTLE girl, upon her return from a 
children's party, being asked if she had a 
good time, replied, "Yes, but there wasn't
much boys there."
	A GENTLEMAN, on presenting a lace col-
lar to his adored one, said, carefully: "Do
not let any one else rumple it." "No,
dear," she replied, "I'll take it off."
ANDREW Jackson was accused of bad spell-
ing, but John Randolph defended him by
declaring that "a man must be a fool who
could not spell  more ways than one."
	SHERIDAN, at a public dinner, was unex-
pectedly called upon to say grace, when he
acquitted himself as follows: "What? No
clergyman present? Thank God for all things."
"THAT clock, stranger," said a Michigan
farmer, "was the best kind of a clock up to
six months ago, when my daughter began
to have beaus, and now the blamed thing is
always two hours slow."
	"J. Gray—Pack with my box five dozen
quills." There is nothing remarkable about
this sentence, only that it is nearly as short
as one can be constructed and yet contains
the whole alphabet.
	THE celebrated Chesterfield is said to have
died with a witticism on his lips. When
told that he was dying by inches, he thanked
heaven that he was not so tall by a foot and
a half, as Sir Thomas Robinson.
	DEVOUT mother (to young lady who is
burning up love-letters on Sunday)—"What
are you doing there, my dear?  Are you
burning incense?"  Young lady—"O, no,
ma; I am only burning nonsense."
	A MODERN philosopher thinks it is a mis-
take to suppose women have stronger at-
tachments than men.  A man is often at-
tached to an old hat; but he asks, "Who
ever heard of a woman being attached to
an old bonnet."
	A GIRL screamed in a lecture audience in
Lafayette, Oregon.  Then all the other girls
screamed.  General consternation ensued,
and a rush for the doors.  People were
bruised, clothes torn, and the room at length
emptied.  The first screamer had seen a
rat.
	A GENTLEMAN entered a bachelor's rooms
and looking around, said: "Very snug—
rather too snug; but I suppose they are
large enough for a bachelor." "Yes," said
the bachelor; "but I suppose if I had had a 
better half, I might have had better quar-
ters."

[Column 2]
	A RED HAIRED lady, who was ambitious
of literary distinction, found but a poor sale
for her book.  A gentleman, in speaking of
her disappointment, said: "Her hair is red
(read) if her book is not." An auditor, in
attempting to relate the joke elsewhere,
said: "She has red hair if her book hasn't"
	A DOCTOR lately informed his friends, in
a large company, that he had been eight
days in the country.  "Yes," says one of
the party; "it has been announced in the
newspaper." "Ah!" said the doctor, stretch-
ing his neck importantly; "pray in what
terms?" "Well, as well as I can remember,
in the following: "There were last week
seventy-seven deaths less than the week be-
fore.'


[Column 1]
		PEN AND SCISSORS.

	Switzerland has abolished capital punishment.
	"AT what time of day was Adam born?
A little before Eve."
	How to make money go far—Give it to
the foreign mission.
	MRS. Proctor will publish the autobiogra-
phy of her husband (Barry Cornwall) this 
year.
	THE reign of the chignon is over; its glory
has departed; its name is Ichabod—Harper's
Bazar.
	A DOLLAR store is a place where you can
get a twenty-five cent article you do not 
want.
	A FEMALE lawyer in Wyoming Territory
goes into court with her six children follow-
ing her.
	A man of large experience said his ac-
quaintances would fill a cathedral but a pul-
pit would hold his friends.
	"COME here and I'll lick the whole of
you," said an urchin to some sticks of pep-
permint in a confectioner's window.
	THE Booklyn Argus says the ancient time
instituted the Elizabeth ruff, while the
present age is rough on Elizabeth.
In the bright lexicon of feminine fashion
there is such a word as "faille." Spring
hasn't had too much balm as yet.
	A FRENCHMAN got exceedingly angry
with a waiter at an English hotel. "You
rascal!" exclaimed he, "I blow your nose
for you."
	WHAT is the difference between Noah's
ark and a Mississippi flat-boat:  One is
made of Gopher wood and the other made
to go for wood.
	A PHONOGRAPHER, taking down one of
Dr. Mary Walker's lectures, made the well-
known legend, "Honi soit qui mal y pense,"
read "Only see how Molly pants."
	IT is a good time for a political house-
cleaning this year. The State House needs
over-hauling. But, for efficient house-clean-
ing, the help of women is needed.
	THERE is not a proclamation of Napoleon
to his soldiers in which glory is not men-
tioned and duty forgotten; there is not an
order of Wellington to his troops in which
duty is not inculcated, nor one in which
glory is alluded to.
	Four ladies who passed the London University
examination and entered themselves in the "cham-
bers" for the study of law, are likely to obtain
profitable employment.  One of them whose
studies are completed has been engaged by a firm
of soliciters as a consulting counsel.

[Column 2]
	ZARE Thalburg daughter of the great pian-
ist will make her debut iu London this sea-
son in the opera.
	MRS. Mary Sellers and Mrs. Barbara Babb
of Milltown, Maine are probably the oldest
twins in New England being 85 years old.
	MRS. Ottendorfer of New York has given
$100,000 to establish a home  for aged and
infirm persons of the Evangelical Lutherian
denomination.
	MISS Emily Faithful has been lecturing
to large audiences at Barton-on Humber,
York and elsewhere in the north of Eng-
land.
	A Woman Suffrage meeting was held in the 
American Hall, Boston, May 8th, under the aus-
pices of the Dorchester Woman Suffrage Club.
Addresses were made by Mrs. Lucy Stone and
Henry B. Blackwell, on the "justice expediency
and necessity of Woman Suffrage."


EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES
			AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specialty in Gloves and Home mades Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
		H.E. PHELPS,
			29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.
		H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE & RETAIL FURNITURE DEALER.
	SPRING BEDS. WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,
		WALL PAPER AND BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 AND 79 First South Street, between East
				and Temple Streets.
			CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the part
of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of the
EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects contem-
plated in its publicaiton, by making it truly an expo-
nent of the views of the women of Utah, sustained by
them, read by them, and its columns enriched with a
widely circulated expression of their thoughts, we offer
the following liberal terms to clubs for the present vol-
ume;
10 copies; 1 year with a copy to the getter up of
	the club.	-	-	-	-	-	-		$18 00
15 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club,		-	-	-	-	-		$26 00
20 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a framed steel engraving 12x16
	inches, of President Brigham Young, selling
	price, $2.50	-	-	-	-	-		$34 00
30 copies, 1 year, with a copy to the getter up of
	the club, and a superior first proof steel en-
	graving of President Brigham Young, hand-
	somely framed, selling price $4	-	-	$48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time, and additions
can be made after the first list of names has been sent.
Getters up of clubs should notify us of their indications
so that we can credit them with all names sent in.
	In all cases give the name and residency of each sub-
scriber, plainly and correctly written, with the time
when each subscription is to commence, and whether for
a whole or half year.
	Money can be remitted by registered letter at the risk
of the publishers.
	Subscribers desiring the address changed from one
Post Office to another should send us their former, as
well as their new address.
	We hope that agents and ladies throughout the Terri-
tory, especially Presidents and Officers of Relief Socie-
ties will aid us by getting up clubs, by bringing the EX-
PONENT favorably to the notice of non-subscribers and
otherwise using their influence to increase its circula-
tion and usefulness.

