The Relief Society Magazine - April 1968, Vol. 55, No. 4

Love Comes on Little Wings Lael W. Hill At the brink of four She is wholly of the world, Exactly the world's bright center, Singing an earnest love: Oh, little bird, she sings, Come down to me and let me hold you She makes her hands into A tiny nest Oh, lovely bird, she sings.... Oh, little butterfly, she sings, Come down to me, and I will kiss you Her face is flower soft And lifted skyward Oh, pretty butterfly, she sings.... Her eyes are warm with waiting, Her mouth is all curved eagerness; Under pink-petaled wind she stands tiptoe: Oh, little bird, she sings....

The Cover: Symphony of Blossoms Transparency by Camera Clix Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Nest in the Blossoms Luoma Photos Inset Model: Margaret Lloyd Portrait by Dorothy J. Roberts

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

In the December issue ("A House of Many Roofs," by Berta Mae Curtis, who wrote the article) was here for the holidays. We were both interested in all the other colorful displays. It was truly a splendid Christmas issue. I could hardly wait until they were given permission to eat "the house."

M. Jean Baty Selkirk, Manitoba, Canada

Calling I have in Relief Society, as first counselor, for the beautiful lessons and the features in the Magazine. The Magazine is full of treasures.

Minnie I. Hodapp American Fork, Utah

242

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$3.95 An outstanding novel that vividly portrays a young girl's search for a meaningful romance. In spite of an active Church life, a young and vivacious Mormon girl finds that the man she loves is not of her faith. Share the agony that faces this young girl as she tries to decide between her Church and her heart. A satisfying and uplifting book filled with the color and excitement of a ranch and rodeo background. DOCTRINAL COMMENTARY ON THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE by Dr. Hyrum L. Andrus $4.95 Of special interest to Relief Society women since the finding of papyri owned by Joseph Smith is the scholarly exploration and analysis of the least known of the standard works. An aid to a fuller appreciation of this latterday scripture. SS DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY () DOCTRINAL COMMENTARY ON THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE ke, and 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. April "68 R. S. Mag. Send Me: () OUT OF THE WEST Total cost $.... 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALI miso. Asameat. AadtNatcanteeuia -. This includes 34% Utah sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah eer ek LIFE iC "aaance OS) Paty way I Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah ety i o x = 0 0 ) ® te Magazine