[Vol15 | March 1928 | Sequence: 18d | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON IV - Social Service (The Child's Moral Development)]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in May)
THE CHILD?STUDY COURSE LESSON 5
The Child's Moral Development
Based on Chapter V: "The Child: His Nature and His Needs"
We come now, in this review of the different phases of

the child's growing personality, to a consideration of his moral development. Dr. Henry Neumann, who wrote this splendid chapter, is an international authority on the subject. He is instructor in the Ethical Culture School, New York City, and author of Moral Values and Secondary Education; Teaching American Ideals Through Literature and Education for Moral Growth.
A. WHAT IS CHARACTER? (Pages 89-91)
Character is defined as: "The sum of qualities or features, by which a person or a thing is distinguished from others; the aggregate of distinctive mental and moral qualities belonging to an individual or a race as a whole; the stamp of individuality impressed by nature, education, or habit; that which a person or thing really is; essential peculiarity; kind, sort; nature."
The question then is: How is character formed? The first principle of character development is this: character is affected by a multitude of factors?heredity, general health, food, home life, street life, school life, newspapers, movies, parents, companions, habits of thought, occupations, etc. To ensure a desirable character in a child, therefore, parents and teachers must control all of the factors which affect his moral development directly or indirectly. "There is no such thing as a distinct training in character apart from the rest of the child's development."
Questions
1. What is the practical difference between character and physique, intelligence, temperament. Personality, individuality, etc.?
2. Show, by a few examples, how the child's moral development is influenced by: a. Ancestral stock (heredity). b. Children's diseases. c. Nutrition. d. Sleeping habits. e. Companions. f. School. g. Brothers and sisters, companions, etc. h. Books, newspapers, etc. i. Commercialized recreation (e. G., the movies).
B. HARNESSING THE CHILD'S NORMAL DESIRES IN THE INTERESTS OF HIS MORAL DEVELOPMENT (Pages 91-96)
One of the best established principles of psychology is, to state it simply, a new habit can be established with considerable ease when it is "tacked on" to a strong desire. Let us say, for example, that Johnny has the habit of lying but, like other children, also loves recognition. The wise parent in such a case will capitalize Johnny's wish for recognition by creating an opportunity for him to be in the limelight when he tells the truth, and conversely denying him recognition when he persists in lying. The reader will readily convince herself of the truth of this general principle by taking each one of the following "normal desires" and working out an appropriate illustration, showing how the above principle can be widely used in the moral development of the child:
The desire for strength. The desire to earn a living. The desire to be like great people. The desire for fellowship. The desire for distinction and independence. The desire to lead. The will to power. The desire for justice. The tendency to kindness and mercy. The desire for sex. The desire for religion.
C. SOME GENERAL SUGGESTIONS (Pages 97-102)
There are two items in this part of the chapter which it seems appropriate to stress here. The first has to do with what might be called self-directed group activity. It can be stated as a general rule that children are much more sensitive to the opinions of other children in their own social group than they are to the opinions of their parents. It is this fact which has led to the wide-spread use of systems of self-government in schools and reformatories. The George Junior Republic, for instance, was built around this idea. Here, children governed themselves, as far as possible. Peculiarly enough, an interesting reform has grown out of this experiment. Thomas Mott Osborne became the most famous prison reformer in this country when he introduced

self-government into Sing Sing prison. The following incident illustrates the power of this principle. The Mutual Welfare League at Sing Sing was once asked to present one of its plays in a neighboring town. The prison management allowed the players to make the trip without guards. During the journey a storm arose which prevented the men from reaching their destination and which gave the men?most of whom were "lifers"?an excellent opportunity to escape. The following morning found every one of the prisoners back at the prison. Newspaper men inquired of the convicts why they didn't escape when they had the chance. Their reply is significant. "We were honor-bound to our fellow-prisoners, as well as to the warden, to return. Had we failed, they and their organization, would have been punished. We had no thought of escape."
The second item has to do with the influence of other personalities upon children. The best moral teacher, it is safe to say, is the one whose character is sound. Example is much more potent than precept. The psychological reason for this is that children are highly suggestible. They imitate, copy and emulate?sometimes very uncritically when young?the behavior patterns and models in their social world. This has led one writer (Dr. Henry C. King, former president of Oberlin College) to say, that "Character is caught, not taught." If this is true, then parents, teachers, and all who have responsibility for children, should themselves be superior characters and personalities.
Questions
1. What are the values and dangers in self-directing activities for children?
2. How much self-directing activity is possible for children in your community?
3. Give a few illustrations of the author's statement (page 99): "Untrained in the use of freedom, they (children) abuse it when it comes later."
4. Why is it poor psychology to say "don't" to a child?
5. Should as much care be exercised in the selection of religious teachers as of public school teachers? Explain.
D. THE PRINCIPLES OF CHARACTER EDUCATION (Pages 102-106)
Utah has made herself nationally famous for her work in character education. Credit for this is largely due to the leadership of Dean Milton Bennion, of the University of
Utah, who for many years was chairman of the Committee of Character Education of the National Education Association. The work of this Committee has been preserved in a bulletin of the U. S. Bureau of Education (1920, No. 7, price 15c). It seems worth while to give our readers the gist of Dean Bennion's Committee report. In this pamphlet the objectives of character education are stated as:
"1. To develop socially valuable purposes, leading in youth or early maturity, to the development of life purposes.
"2. To develop enthusiasm for the realization of these purposes; and coupled with this enthusiasm, intelligent use of time and energy.
"3. To develop the moral judgment?the ability to know what is right in any given situation.
"4. To develop the moral imagination?the ability to picture vividly the good or evil consequences to self and to others of any type of behavior.
"5. To develop all socially valuable age capacities of the individual, and to direct the resultant abilities toward successfully fulfilling all one's moral obligations.
"Investigations thus far warrant the conclusion that the prime factor in the development of any personality is the influence of other personalities. This fact gives emphasis to the conviction that character education is a problem of community life, and that all social institutions and social agencies should share cooperatively this responsibility.
"The school can by no means assume all the responsibility. The natural responsibility of parenthood and the intimate personal relations of the home at once suggest that this institution should be the primary factor in character development. Character development is also held to be one of the chief functions of the church; but, because of its present limited range of influence as compared with the schools, they may well assume responsibility next in importance to that of the home for the character training of the young."
The Committee favored a system of what is called direct moral teaching. On this point the report says: "Direct moral instruction is, to be sure, but one phase of moral education in the schools; it may be a minor phase, yet of sufficient importance to make its omission a serious handicap. In order to realize all the objectives of character or moral education, it seems that all the available means and methods must be utilized?home, school, church, state, vocations and general social life of the community with such methods as may be employed in each case. Some of the methods available to the school are:

"a. The example and personal influence of teachers and other school officers.
"b. Indirect moral instruction through each and all of the school studies.
"c. Direct moral instruction by groups and on some occasions through personal conferences.
"d. Student participation in the management of the school community?sometimes called student participation in government.
"e. All other varieties of extracurricular activities of the school; e. g. Assembly periods, debating, musical and dramatical performances, athletic contests, parties, etc."
Questions
1. What is the method of character education in the schools of your community? What constructive suggestions can you offer for its improvement?
2. What can the schools do to individualize character education?
3. How does your community deal with juvenile delinquents and others whose character development is obviously faulty?