LESSON III Literature (Third Week in May)
CHARLES G. D. ROBERTS
Charles G. D. Roberts, Canada's outstanding poet, appears to have descended from a nest of song birds as "the Roberts family of Fredricton, New Brunswick, is Canada's most distinguished literary family." He was the eldest son. His birth occurred January 10, 1860, at Douglas, North County, New Brunswick, Canada. He was educated at the Fredricton Collegiate School and at the University of New Brunswick where he took his B. A. Degree in 1879 with honors. In 1881 he was made a Master of Arts and in 1906 received the honorary LL. D. He appears to have specialized in mental and moral science and political economy. He was twenty-one years old when he married Miss Mary I. Fenety, daughter of the Queen's Printer of New Brunswick. In 1883 and 1884 he was editor of the Week, Toronto, Ontario; in 1885 to 1888, Professor of English and French literature in Kings College, Windsor, Nova Scotia; in 1888 to 1895 Professor of Economics in the same college.
Canadians look back to the Confederation, the fiftieth anniversary of which they celebrated last year, as a very important epoch in their history, and the anniversary of that event is like our Fourth of July, a red letter day in their history. Roberts rose to prominence and became popular because he was everywhere hailed as the "Voice" of the Canadian Confederacy. To use the words of J. D. Logan, "he became the voice of one crying in the wilderness trying to make straight the paths of the Canadian poet." Prior to this time the people had delighted in the perfection of Mr. Roberts verse, for it had been with Canada as with all new countries, they had produced much verse which was of little moment because it lacked artistic structure and finish. Now they discovered that their finished versifier was prophet as well as poet. He called to his countrymen in the following language:
O Child of Nations, giant-limbed, Who stand'st among the nations now Unheeded, unadorned, unhymned, With unanointed brow?
How long the ignoble sloth, how long The trust in greatness not thine own? Surely the lion's brood is strong To front the world alone!

But Mr. Roberts did not remain in Canada to follow up his clarion call. An offer from New York took him there where he became Associate Editor of the Illustrated American. Since that time it has not been necessary for him to do either academic or editorial work. Consequently, he has devoted himself to writing and publishing many books which have added duly to his fame. When the last century closed he had written and published seven books of verse. In 1901 he selected what he regarded as his best poems and published them in one volume. This, of course, is his outstanding volume of poetry. He lived in London, England, a good many years and obtained the regard of both English and American critics to a larger extent than any other writer of Canadian verse. In September, 1914, he enlisted as a trooper in the Legion of Frontiersmen. Later he was promoted to a captaincy in the King's Liverpool Regiment, and still later he attained to the rank of major. We have a poem called "Cambrai and Marne" that grew out of this experience. A few stanzas will indicate the graphic power of his description:
Between the hedges and the town The cursing squadrons we rode down; To stay them we outpoured our blood Between the beetfields and the wood.
In that red hell of shrieking shell Unfaltering our gunners fell; They fell, or ere that day was done, Beside the last unshattered gun.
Our feet, astonished, learned retreat, Our souls rejected still defeat; Unbroken still, a lion at bay, We drew back grimly from Cambrai.
In blood and sweat, with slaughter spent, They thought us beaten as we went, Till suddenly we turned, and smote The shout of triumph in their throat.
By cumbered road and desperate ford How fled their shamed and harassed horde! Shout, Sons of Freemen, for the day When Marne so well avenged Cambrai!
In 1925 Dr. Roberts returned to Canada where he was made President of the Toronto branch of the Canadian Authors' Association. Last summer he attended a convention of western poets held in the city of Seattle, Washington. He was, no doubt, the outstanding figure of that convention. With many years of achievement crowning his snowy locks, he stood amongst them, the dean of Canadian Letters, and the young authors recognized in him one who had had much experience in life; one who had inspired an entire group of Canadian writers; in fact, the one who was the leading spirit and inaugurator of the first renaissance in Canadian Literature.
With all due respects to the many subjects Dr. Roberts has made use of in the large number of poems he has written his critics are rather generally agreed that his most penetrating work is evident in his treatment of nature. Consequently the remainder of the lesson will be devoted to that theme. In such poems as "Hill-Top Songs," "The Good Earth," "On the Road," "The Unknown City," "The Place of His Rest," "When the Cloud Comes Down the Mountain," and "Under the Pillars of the Sky," we have excellent examples of the poet's penetration and appreciation of the great outdoor world.
From "Hill-Top Songs" we quote the following:
When the lights come out in the cottages Along the shores at eve, And across the darkening water The last pale shadows leave;
And up from the rock-ridged pasture slopes The sheep-bell tinklings steal, And the folds are shut, and the shepherds Turn to their quiet meal;
And even here, on the unfenced height, No journeying wind goes by, But the earth-sweet smells, and the home-sweet sounds, Mount, like prayer, to the sky;

From "The Good Earth" we quote:
The smell of burning weeds Upon the twilight air; The piping of the frogs From meadows wet and bare;

O spring wind, sweet with love And tender with desire, Pour into veins of mine Your pure, impassioned fire!
O waters running free With full, exultant song, Give me, for outworn dream, Life that is clean and strong!
O springing things of green, O waiting things of bloom, O winging things of air, Your lordship now resume!
From "On the Road" we quote:
Ever just over the top of the next brown rise I expect some wonderful thing to flatter my eyes.
"What's yonder?" I ask of the first wayfarer I meet. "Nothing!" he answers, and looks at my travel-worn feet.
"Only more hills and more hills, like the many you've passed, With rough country between, and a poor enough inn at the last."
But already I am a-move, for I see he is blind, And I hate that old grumble I've listened to time out of mind.
At the crest of the hill I shall hail the new summits to climb. The demand of my vision shall beggar the largess of time.
For I know that the higher I press, the wider I view, The more's to be ventured and vision, in worlds that are new.
From "The Unknown City" we quote:
Cool are its streets with waters musical And fountains' shadowy fall.
With orange and anemone and rose, And every flower that blows Of magic scent or unimagined dye, Its gardens shine and sigh.
Its chambers, memoried with old romance And faery circumstance,? From any window love may lean some time For love that dares to climb.
This is that city babe and seer divined With pure, believing mind.
This is the home of unachieved emprise. Here, here the visioned eyes Of them that dream past any power to do, Wake to the dream come true.
Here the high failure, not the level fame, Attests the spirit's aim.
Here is fulfilled each hope that soared and sought Beyond the bournes of thought.

John W. Garvin, who has written extensively of Canadian poets has this to say about Mr. Roberts' writings: "No other writer known to me has more intimately associated his mind and spirit with every object and phase of nature. His poetic descriptions are vividly real, and exquisite in beauty of expression, whilst his animal stories in felicitous literary English, in accuracy of particulars, in intensity of dramatic interest, are beyond criticism."
Questions and Problems
1. In what particular does Charles G. D. Roberts resemble our New England poets?
2. What does he mean when he writes: "Surely the lion's brood is strong to front the world alone!"
3. Select some colorful words from the extracts printed.
4. Poets often make use of contrast: Select some contrast in color in the line: "With orange and anemone and rose."
5. Tell of some people you know who are always expecting to see "just over the top of the next brown rise some wonderful thing to flatter" their "eyes."
6. Do you know any people who see nothing except "more hills and more hills" * * * "with rough country between and a poor enough inn at the last?"
7. If you know these two sorts of people, which would you prefer being? Why?