Choosing Roses for the Home Garden Hazel D. Moyle In the time of roses Hope thou, weary heart: Spring a balm discloses For the keenest smart. Though thy grief o'ercome thee Through the winter's gloom, Thou shall thrust it from thee When the roses bloom. Anonymous IN every age since the days of Isaiah, poets have sung of the beauty of the rose, the most loved flower of all mankind. It has been a source of inspiration in song and in story since the beginning of time. Kings and queens have paid court to its charms and have willingly bent the knee to cultivate its beauty, while it has been treasured in the gardens of the humble and poor wherever flowers have been cultivated all down the centuries. Rose lovers of today should give thanks that we are privileged to live in the greatest age of rose growing ever known to man. Not only do we enjoy roses during the month of June, the traditional rose month, but modern hybridization has extended the rose-blooming season to continue throughout the entire growing year. Until recently, roses bloomed only in June, with perhaps an occasional later bloom, but the modem rose garden produces roses during every month from May until frosts come to stop all blooming. We also have more kinds and Page 388 varieties than were ever dreamed of by rose lovers of former ages. The most distant lands have been combed by plant hunters to enrich our gardens, but by far the most important modern rose development has been the advent of the everblooming hybrid tea rose which is now so universally grown as to almost crowd other types out of our gardens. We must give credit for this new type of rose (which has made rose growing so popular in almost every back-yard garden) to a famous woman of history, none other than the Empress Josephine, wife of Napoleon the Conquerer. Josephine occupied, perhaps, the highest place ever graced by any woman when she reigned for a short time as empress of a good part of the world. But this exalted position did not prevent her from being an ardent and practical gardener and botanist. The rose was her favorite flower and it was her greatest joy to steal away from the demanding formality of official life to her country home, Malmaison, where she practiced the gentle art of growing roses. History records that, so ardent was Josephine's love of gardening, she even incurred the disapproval of her royal lord and master, Napoleon, who protested at her garden extravagances, a situation not unfamiliar to many a common, back-yard gardener of today. CHOOSING ROSES FOR THE HOME GARDEN It was Josephine's hope to assemble a plant of every known rose in her garden, and she commissioned all botanists, plant hunters, travelers, and even Napoleon's great military expeditions, to bring back new kinds of roses from foreign 389 lands far and wide. At length, she secured 250 different kinds, which included practically all known species and varieties of that day. But, like every true gardener, Josephine was not content with this accomplishment, and she constantly Photograph Courtesy of Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark, New York HYBRID TEA ROSE "MANDALAY" 390 encouraged botanists and nurserymen to practice the then new art of hybridization, in order to create still other improved rose varieties. Under her patronage, many new roses were developed by this method, and it was during this colorful time that the custom of naming new roses began. Most of the new roses were named after the burly and rough generals of Napoleon's army, the popular heroes of that militant age. A few years later, another new rose came from China which bore small flowers not only in June, but in succeeding crops, month after month. This became known as the China Tea Rose. Rose hybridizers pollenized this everbloomer with other large-flowered June roses, and the result was the lovely La France rose, the first of all the hybrid tea roses. This important event occurred in the year 1867, and it ushered in our modern age of everblooming roses. Plant hybridizers of every country, including France, England, Ireland, Denmark, Germany, Spain ?not forgetting our own United States?all produced famous rose hybridizers who were constantly striving to create more and more lovely, better, bigger, and finer, everblooming roses. This world-wide interest accounts for the welter of strange and foreign names of our roses. We now have roses bearing the names of kings and queens, presidents, imperial potentates, actresses, duchesses, German frauen, and Spanish senoras, as well as plain Margaret McGredy?even little Dainty Bess, whoever she may be. Such a teeming multitude of strange names confronts any new convert to gardening, that many have been known to cry out with Shakespeare's Juliet, "What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet." cannot choose blindly from this confusing abundance of varieties, for we soon learn that roses are much like human beings; they have their individual faults and good qualities, their likes and dislikes, their queer traits and peculiar characteristics. We must grow them in order to know them well. Many an amiable-appearing rose turns out to be a stingy, poor bloomer, or perhaps one that tums an unpleasant purplish color when fully open; or it wilts down at the first warm hint of the sun. Many varieties actually attract the villainous rose beetle, while others are prone to mildew. Another bad fault is that of "balling" the buds in wet weather, so that they do not open, but remain a poor blob of unpleasantly limp petals. It behooves the ordinary home gardener to choose those roses of proven worth in the community, rather than the new varieties that are so enticingly offered, for many of these newcomers will prove disappointing. Let us name a few varieties that have won universal approval: Of red roses, we can safely select the variety Crimson Glory as perhaps the finest red rose of today. One might term this the perfect red rose, so rich is its color, so lovely its form, so generous and constant its bloom. It is universally acknowledged as "tops" in its class. But we must also name another older (and cheaper) red rose that CHOOSING ROSES FOR THE HOME GARDEN Photograph Courtesy of Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark New York HYBRID TEA ROSE "MARY MARGARET McBRIDE" is also near perfection, the variety Etoile de Holland. This, too, bears large blooms of clear, rich color and reliable blooming habit. "My love is like a red, red rose, that's newly sprung in June," sang Bobby Burns. At poems he would write to these modem blooms! Next we mention a rose that deserves to be in every garden because of its strong, sturdy nature, its beauty and prolific bloom ? the President Herbert Hoover. No other variety gives more for the space it occupies. Few roses come up to it in desirability, especially 392 "PRESIDENT HERBERT HOOVER" during the fall months when its blooms of warm pink, overcast with sunset tones, develop to their fullest beauty. For years this rose has been voted as the favorite variety in the yearly rose poll taken by the Utah Rose Society, only last season having the red Crimson Glory tie with it for first place. The last named, together with the two Radiance roses, the pink and the red, should be grown by all gardeners living in colder sections of the country, for these are among the hardiest of all roses. Pink roses are a favorite of almost every rose lover, and there are many excellent ones of this color. Dame Edith Helen is a magnificent pink rose, but we must whisper that this is definitely a sparse bloomer and to be classed among the stingy ones. Yet when it does deign to bloom, it is well worth waiting for. Our own choice of all pink roses to date is the fairly new one called The Doctor, an amazing flower of dazzling size, sparkling color, and outstanding keeping qualities. Give this variety good care which means an occasional mulch of manure and plenty of moisture and it will reward you with great blooms of excellent substance that last almost twice as long as most other varieties, both in the garden and when cut. Fine perfume is another of its good qualities. Our second choice of pink varieties is Miss Rowena Thom, child of the sturdy Pink Radiance. This rose inherits its parent's hardiness, with blooms of a size to almost vie 'with The Doctor. Countess Vandal has won a high place as a flower of exquisite perfection and almost indescribable coloring, a warm yet delicate pink overlaid with yellow tones. This rose appears in lists of favorite varieties in all sections. Many rosarians name it as a favorite. Good yellow roses are not plentiful, but the variety Eclipse has won a sure place for its lovely buds and fine, clear, lively yellow color. Of the newer varieties, Mandalay is one of the best, an elegant and large rose of glowing, clear golden color. Max Krause is also very fine, an excellent yellow of sturdy habits. Make the acquaintance of these beautiful roses in your neighbor's and near-by gardens while they are blooming this summer and fall, and make your selection of varieties to plant next spring so that you, too, can have lovely roses to contribute beauty during the Centennial celebration, as well as all down the years to come.