The Price T.A. Hunt OCR Transcription
IN the State of Utah there is a long, narrow valley that winds tortuously for nearly two hundred miles between mountain ranges. In 1865, there were no fertile farms, no luxuriant vegetation, nothing green except a thin ribbon of cottonwoods and willows along the winding course of the river. Beyond this, on either side, a wide strip of gray-green indicated the greasewood area, which ended at the foot of the silver-blue, sage-covered benches. Perhaps at that time the valley possessed a measure of beauty, but such as it was, it was cold, fierce, and inhospitable, even forbidding. Like the Utes who roamed over its bottom lands and benches and camped by the river and the mountain streams, it had rugged elements of beauty, but, at heart, it was quite cruel.
Late in August of that year, as the sun sank behind the Pavant Range and the shadows lengthened and chased the sunlight out of the valley onto the bench and up the mountainside, there to linger and play in golden glory for a few splendid moments, herders were driving home a motley drove of cattle, the chief wealth of the pioneer settlement. These were to be kept for the night in the corral. Three sides of this enclosure were made of cedar posts, deeply and securely embedded in the earth; the fourth side was formed by the high rock wall of the fort. To the north, and adjoining the corral, lay the small field which had been cleared and broken. It was laid off
in squares, as it is today, but the whole field was golden with ripened shocks of cut and bound grain.
Many things had happened since the time, three years before, when the first camp had been made. The first year's scanty crops had been planted too late to mature. The second year, the crops had been subjected to two scourges, grasshoppers and drought. Long before planting time of the third season, the Ute Indians, incited by Chief Walker and Chief White Horse, had gone on the war path. No conciliatory efforts of the settlers had induced the savages to consider peace. Therefore, much of the time and energy of the men and boys had been required to haul the rock from the bench and build the four thick, high, walls of the fort. That task was now over. It was a homely, but formidable structure of gray cobblestones. Lean-to shanties built against the inner walls afforded a crowded shelter and a minimum of comfort to the inhabitants. Equidistant from the corners, at each end, was a sixteen-foot gate built of hewn cedars pinned together with strong maple pegs.
As yet, the Indians had made no direct attack on the fort. The chief evidences of warfare were the frequent raids on the cattle herders when they ventured too far from the fort, or the theft of such cattle as wandered into the canyons in search of cooling shade or greener feed.
After the sun had set, two men, one from each gate, armed with muskets, came forth to do guard
THE PRICE duty. They walked south and around the corner until they met on the south side of the fort, then turned and walked back, meeting again on the north side of the cattle corral. Thus the time was to be spent until they were relieved. The grain had prematurely ripened of the excessive heat and drought and the harvesting of it was late since it had taken so much time and work to complete the fort. For that reason, the men who ha worked through the long, burning day cradling and binding grain, were red and worn out. Yom ALTON and Andrew Rasmussen were who emerged for duty that night. Each had cradled five acres of grain that day. As Tom approached corral gate, the animals were being not there. "Where are m' cattle, Bill?" he the herders. "When we drove the herd out of the cottonwoods, your oxen were not there, an' your boy, Tommie, went long." As the darkness fell and still no sign of the boy appeared, Tom walked his beat with an increasing anxiety. Returning from the cattle corral on one of his rounds, he saw 4 shaft of light 409 gleaming through the partly opened fort gate. A woman, middle-aged, handsome, and slender, stood in the illuminated space. Her mass of jet black hair was combed back, braided, and wound into a large bob at the base of her head. Her features were finely and delicately formed. The large, expressive black eyes bespake both spirit and tenderness. Peculiarly curved little wrinkles at the comers of her mouth showed that her face was pleasant, and that "she Her chin and mouth have one the impression of strength Everyone in the fort knew that it was not an easy Hannah Alton's mind when she had made it up. In and obstinate. T that she was the kindest and gentlest woman in the world, and the best and most cheerful of wives. He knew what had brought her there. He hoped to hide his anxiety concerning the boy from her, but felt sure he could not do it. He therefore hesitated a moment in Ot der to organize a plan. "Halt! Who goes there?" "Tt is I, thy wife, Hannah," replied. "And I am sorely smitten wi anxiety because OUT Tommie is out lookin' for the cattle and hasna' returned." "Thou mustna worry," comforted Tom. "I havena' doubt that our Tommie will be able to ta' care 0 on 9? Himself and come in after a bit. "Tom, thou wanna tell me that thou are not worried over the lad Thou must leave off standing guard and go and seek him." "That I canna' do without the 410 permission of the captain," replied Tom soberly. "The captain willna' give you leave," said Hannah. "J have already sought him and he says that all the men are tired and that thou must ta' thy regular turn at guard. The captain don'na' like me." She looked toward the blackness, closing them in, the dark that held her boy. "Tom, thou must go. I will ta' thy place and attend guard instead o' thee." "Hannah," answered Tom, "I fain would go and seek the lad, but thou knowest I canna' substitute anyone in my place. I'm disobeying orders even to let thee stand and delay me. Go to the captain and send 'im hither that I may seek my release." "Nay, Tom," she replied. "If thou willna' or canna' go and seek thy son who is out yonder, I shall take thy place there. There's na' rule or order as can stop me from that." She turned and ran into the darkness. Tom ran after her and called, but she was gone. At the corner ot the fort he met Andrew Rasmussen, who was waiting there for him. "Vat und who was dat?" he said excitedly. "Und vy don't you stop im?" "That was my wife," said Tom. "And naught but a bullet could stop 'er. Our Tommie is out there huntin' cattle, and she ha' gone to seek im Tom walked rapidly back to the gate and called loudly to the captain. When he came, he seemed not at all pleased. "What do you want now?" he asked rather irritably. "Mi lad is out yonder at the cottonwoods hunting mi cattle," said Tom meekly, "an' mi wife is greatly ? worried and excited about it. I wish to be excused from guard duty while I go an' seek 'im." "The boy is all night. He's able to take care of himself! He's nearly aman. Thirteen, isn't he?" "Yes, the lad is past thirteen," replied Tom. "But mi wife ha' gone in search o' him. She willna' retum until she finds the lad and he willna' come back without the cattle. 1 canna' stay here safe while mi own are out there in the dark. For God's sake release me, captain. I must go to 'em." "You have worked yourself into a stew about nothing. It has been weeks since we saw an Indian. The darkness won't hurt them." The captain started to go, then, as one suddenly remembering something, he turned back. "Tom! You have disobeyed orders by permitting your wife to pass. You should never have let her do so. Your wife is too headstrong. Since she has gone, let her stay. 'The experience will not do her any-harm. Continue your guard duty." TOM resumed the patrol of the beat. His heart was heavy and he was greatly worried. He did not speak to the other guard as they met. As he walked, he stared into the darkness. Once he fancied he saw them coming, heard the footfalls of the oxen, but he knew the things he saw and heard were only creatures of his imagination. The temptation to desert his post and go in search of his dear ones was almost irresistible, but he remained. He walked, and listened and stared, he pictured horrible things, until finally he was quite mad. His consciousness seemed to be aware of but one thing. He must THE PRICE walk, walk, walk, back and forth, back and forth. He must walk until he could see the outline of Andrew Rasmussen's broad shoulders and then turn, walk back, meet Rasmussen, tur back. He was almost crushed with the pettiness of it in the face of the greater danger. How slowly the time dragged on. Would this eternal walking never cease? Where were his wife and son? Walk! Walk! Walk! Around the corner. He could see the outline of Rasmussen a rod or so out from the cattle fence. Rasmussen turned and started back. Tom, too, began to retrace his steps. He passed the corner, and made his steady march by the wall of the fort. A hoot owl near the cattle corral called. Another out towards the mountain answered. Suddenly, Tom recalled that he had passed a shadowy something lying against the fence. Becoming instantly alert, he whirled about and walked cautiously back. Yes, there it was! A dark shadow lying against the fence. It might be an animal that had been left out of the corral. Perhaps it was one of his own oxen that had returned. Perhaps Tommie had driven them in after all. He began to walk rapidly toward the dark spot. There was a movement. The shadow began to divide, to take several forms, to become human beings. Was it? Could it be Indians? Yes, he was sure of it now. The forms made a dash for the darkness. Tom's musket came to his shoulder. He fired! Following the report there was a moan, a thudding sound as if something heavy had fallen upon the soft earth. Then for an instant all was quiet. Soon, however, there came to Tom's ears low moans from 411 out in the darkness, which were soon drowned by the commotion from the fort. The report of the shot had aroused the people inside. Having fired, Tom mechanically but rapidly began to reload his musket. He had hardly finished when several men appeared near the corral gate. "Halt!" called Tom. "Who are you?" "What's happened?" asked one of the group. "T think I ha' shot an Indian." Investigation proved that he had, indeed, wounded an Indian, and that several Indians had begun to dig out a section of the corral fence with a view to stampeding the cattle. It was near midnight and Tom sought the captain and obtained his release from further guard duty. The commander did not think it wise to search for Hannah and Tommie until it came daybreak, but Tom did. He entered the low room occupied by himself and family and bade his sleeping children a silent farewell. (The shepherd must seek the lost one, even though the risk to the flock be great.) Stumbling along through the greasewoods, anxious to reach the cottonwoods and their protection, Tom prayed. Now that he could do something, make an effort to aid his wife and son, his calmness and good sense returned. The Indians might be close still. He stopped and listened, and then crept cautiously on. After ages of time had elapsed, as it seemed to him, he finally dared to call into the darkness. But no answer came to him save the noises of the night. As the first streaks of gray appeared in the east, Tom, weary and heartsick, pushed up 412 through the cottonwood thicket. Suddenly, on the still morning air, in came to him. "Tommie, is it thou?" "No, Hannah," he replied. "It isna' the lad, but 'tis I, thy husband, How art thou?" He moved closer to the place where her voice had seemed to come from. "Hast thee seen aught of the Jad?" "I am safe," assuringly, "But I havena' seen Tommie. "God h night. I'm fearful for the safety of our Tommie lad," It was glowing lighter, They wandered on to the edge of the cottonskirted along the southern edge of the cottonwoods, going east toward Tom's attention was or more cattle accompanied by unshod ponies. The trail led from the southwest toward the canyon and, without stopping to reason why, they both instinctively turned and followed the trail. A full mile they something Hannah looked, her face blanched, but she said, "Come. Let us see," Running, stumbling, falling, through brush ? down gullies, up steep ? banks, they hurried until they arrived beneath the circling buzzards, "There he is!" cried Hannah, His strong young aIrows, and the life gone from his body. A stone clasped in his brave tight hand and numerous moccasin prints in the soft earth told only too well what had happened. Crushed and dumb with gtief and sorrow, the parents knelt by the side of the dead boy in silence. "Hannah," bitterly ~ exclaimed Tom. "I canna' bear it! 'Tis too much that we have ' give to this terrible land. It is nq' place for women and children. "Tis too cruel, too wild. I shall leave it. Yes. I shall leave it and take thee and our other children away from its consuming terribleness," not become embittered. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh. Death comes in all lands, to young as well as old. Strong men and women are needed to subdue the wilderness and accomplish the Lord's work here. It had as well be thee and me as some other man and wife. And when 'tis done, 'twill be a good home for thee and me, and a fine inheritance for our children," "Oh, Hannah!" And there were tears in his eyes as he reverently placed his arm about her, "Thou art an angel! Thy courage and fortitude hath shamed away my weakness,"