[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 422 | Fiction | Jerusha Spends the Night— Chapter 6 Hazel | K. Todd]
ing," Lynn said, taking a fringed darkbraided doll from her bag, "an Indian doll I got from a trading post." "Try her," Jerusha said. But Amy closed the door and didn't peek out any more. "She's always been that way since her mother died," Paul explained. "Jerusha's the only one who's ever been able to win her, outside of the family." "I've been trying to get her magic formula," Lynn said. "You give it to her, Jerusha. She will probably take it from you." "We'll stand it here in the bookcase shelf," Jerusha said, placing the doll in the vacant space by a book. "I think some day she will accept it from you." Lynn was standing at the door now ready to leave, a very much alive young woman. A lock of her brown hair, blown by the ride, fell over her face, and she brushed it away with a girlish gesture. "Thank you, Paul Wilson," she said with a sudden seriousness in her wide gray eyes, "for the loan of your family. They're wonderful. We're going again next year, and we've decided to take you along, too." He was standing there tall and sedate, a handsome = sorrowseasoned man, the depths of his somber eyes alive with a life yet to live. "Is that so?" he said with a curious smile. "Well, Ill walk you to the car, and we'll talk about it." They left, and Jerusha stood a minute, a half wistful, pleasureful smile spread over her wrinkled face. And then she went to find Amy. Reading Latter-day Saint literature had become a_ very stimulating side interest for Jerusha. There was plenty of it around, and she carried it to her room and read in the evenings. She had come to feel quite at home in the meetings and other activities, and found it most enjoyable when she was asked to help with the lunch in Relief Society. One question after another sent her asking for help. She always had a few special ones for Ruth Johnson, and now with Lynn Barlow, she claimed she had no chance with both of them working on her. Then there was Paul, who was serving a stake mission and had her assigned for his special contact.

Jerusha Spends the Night So, it came about that one morning at the breakfast table, Jerusha made her announcement. "Just how do you go about getting yourself baptized?" she asked Paul casually across the table. He put down his fork of scrambled eggs. Tears came to his eyes as he looked at her devotedly. "Jerusha, this is wonderful!" he said. Suzey jumped from her chair and came to throw her arms about Jerusha's neck, sobbing happily. Dennis let out a war whoop, upsetting his glass of milk into Jerusha's lap, and Amy clung to her as though she were about to lose her, not quite understanding what it was all about. "Well, it's about time," Joe said, continuing to eat his food, "but do you all have to mob her?" eS crusha bestowed an amused smile on Joe. "As a matter of fact," she said, "I didn't intend a simple question to cause quite such a commotion.". But the family insisted it was something to celebrate. So, the following Saturday when Paul baptized her in the Church font, the Johnsons had the family over for dinner and Jerusha was the guest of honor. "I'm so happy," Ruth said, giving her a big hug. Mr. Johnson added his congratulations, and all the children were pleased. Lynn's eyes sparkled with friendship. "Now you can never leave, Jerusha. You belong here." Jerusha was silent a moment before she answered thoughtfully, "But you went to California from some Utah town, I understand." "Oh, of course," Lynn smiled. "IT don't mean this is the only 

423 June 1970

 end MissionLynn went back to Caljaries al] Over ¢ World. I Just fornia, and Jerusha turned her mean yoy belong With us. Ain attention t Amy. 'Tj See I want to come back to tah bo at is 80ing to happen er eyes danced When she 48 to go to kinder- ] €Y came 8arten with None of ys to rest on Paul for Just I Of us for Se 4a brief Curity? Ha € you Noticed how oment. He tries t alone at Sunday He returned her &8Ze with the Choo]? Don't lieve I could Same Sombernegg his yes. Get her t¢ got IMary if Suze "Maybe We could Catch yoy in didn't 0 to tak Care of the 4 goblin hole ext summer and little tot. » cut yo California Interlude a 'Tl know." aul said «7 little Short," he said h Ping it wil] help to have ¢ She s ed at 1, 4 Sort of be on her own " child]i e€, wistfuy] Smile, « Might "I've been thi ng that, tog » be fun ¢ © caught in a 80blin Jerusha Said. " ™ sure it? Hole." 80INg to be 4 difficult time." Thus the sum r Wore a y, etting Amy to kindergarten and it Was tim to think f was Indeed, difficult. Erusha Schoo] YNN was go e taking he little I G nd Classroom herself th €rusha spoke to R my Clung to r with so Nough, " much "Motion that the under. She said Standing t her and Jerusha de 'But p ure Lynn ig very cided togethe that Y might Interesteg She™ a Mires - him. SS" Well" leas t once to accept €Y seem to enjoy eac Other's the Orld o the People, go company, too, and € rode into She would have to rid the bus town With him the other day." MY cried complained She sat d at the tab} 4nd about foing to School at all. She Tummed h ngers on jt. « returned nervous and Writable. Told you Would be q ficult for he clung to her dol] at night, Paul." Sighed a little. « 'll never letting It out of her Sight, just have t leave jt Up to th > and even €rusha's Storie didn't Jerusha " €em to Tecompense for her lonelj "It's too easy Me around ess throug th ay. Her Sleep to take Care of th 88," Jerush Was fitfy] and restless When Said. She Stood up, « ell, Rom Jerusha aw how j Was worry. Wasn't built in ay. There' Ing Suzey Who shared Yr room next Summer ap the 80bli She Moved Amy's be Into her holes. I Sual] kes som wn room. This added to th oundatj Work for a new bechild' feeling of Security ginning." he gs iled Mor, Nd then One afternoon, Am erself + to h. "It took € runnin Up the lane from 4 little ¢ €nt work to launc he School bys With a happy Me On this New one I just Made." ile Jerush Was outside Snip- 424 held the litu. Girl from her ang looked into her happy little face. "Schoo] Wa today, Wasn't it, Amy?" ° Schoo] " happily "Tl tell you What," Jerusha e Claimed, lad for €ven a be. Ginning, "4 t's go Make your dolly a New dress for this imPortant Occasion." Amy clapped her hands With delight. All th ext day as Jerusha Went abo the She kept reassur herse]f t t last Ittle A 48 beginnj 8 to ad. Just to ¢ World utside her Ome. Sh 0oked he Indian Nice,. Darling! " She 3 doll in ¢ boo ase. Amy had Paid no attention to it at all Perhap She wil] accept it next Summer When Lyn returns She thought. At lunch time she Spoke to Paul about Amy's taking her doll to School. 7; yes lighted With Pleasure. "Tf ther thing J Could do, _ ed hi 7 reverently. It, gave her a Went out the June 1970 through the window. Today with her doll at school would be a big step forward for little Amy. There was plenty of gingerbread left for supper from the day before, but more from restlessness than anything else, she gathered some apples from the fall apple tree in the orchard and made fresh apple pie. She was just taking the last one from the oven when she heard the screaming. Setting it hurriedly on the cupboard, she ran to the door. It was Dennis tearing up the lane, white and panting. "Amy's hurt! Amy's hurt!" he cried. Jerusha felt the blood drain from her head, sending the world into a spin before her eyes. She stared down the lane to where the school bus lights were flashing. In general there was confusion. She knew Joe and Suzey would be on a later activity bus, so there was no help now from there. "Go find your father quickly!" she said to Dennis and was in the car with her foot on the starter to speed the short distance down the lane. Amy was lying there on the ground, her helpless little body motionless, her small face white and still. The bus driver was holding the awe-stricken students back. He looked at her with misery and suffering in his face. "She left her doll in the bus," he said, handing it to Jerusha as though somehow the doll might help. "I didn't notice. Dennis said she cried that she had left her dolly and, before he could stop her, she rushed back for it." He looked at her in abject misery. "They had been clear of the bus. I just couldn't stop in time." 426 "Don't blame yourself," Jerusha said understandingly and dropped on her knees before the still figure. And then the ambulance was there and Paul, his face filled with agony. They lifted her with slow, careful hands onto the stretcher and carried her away to the hospital. Ma any long hours Paul and Jerusha sat in the waiting room, a long time for the serious brain operation, and then a long, long time while the wisp of life hung on a thin thread. There were friends who came solemnly and with words of hope and sympathy —the bishopric, the Relief Society president, and others. The Johnsons had taken Suzey and Dennis home with them. Joe preferred to wait at home where he promised to be on hand for any errand they might need. There had been prayers and an administration. "She is in the Lord's hands now," Paul said. And Jerusha, to whom prayer had taken on a new meaning, nodded her head in grave acceptance. "I have always been afraid for her since Dorothy died," Paul said, standing by the window and staring out into the lights of the night. "She was so lonely until you came." Jerusha came and stood by him. "But there is still hope, Paul." He smiled wearily at her, but he said nothing. So the night passed. And when morning came with its new beginnings, Amy had slipped away to her own new day. Throughout the funeral and the burial Jerusha was so grateful for her newly found hope 'and understanding. She knew how it was that Paul could accept his loss in the quiet way he did. She was overwhelmed with the closeness of the ward members, the dishes of food that came to the house. After it was all over, Ruth came and helped Jerusha pack Amy's things away until other arrangements could be made for them. All the little things Jerusha had sewed with so much love, they folded neatly and stored away. The doll that she had clung to for comfort lay with one arm hanging over the IN BRIGHT FEATHERS I was four and lonely...