[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 450 | General Feature | "Temple Site" by Dale | T. Fletcher]
["Temple Site" by Dale T. Fletcher]

With no more care than an occasional (continued on page 451

) THE PROVO TEMPLE SITE (Provo, Utah) by Dale Fletcher Reprinted from Brigham Young University Studies, Volume X, No. 4, Summer 1970 Courtesy Dr. Charles D. Tate, Jr. Editor BYU Studies Commentary on page 450 447 RS by ¢ Monet me vench) 1840. 1926 The Metropolitan N Musey UM of A Bequest Of Mrs. Hy. O. Avemayer mmentary on Page 449 1929 The H. O. Havemeyer Collection 448 "TEMPLE SITE"' (Provo, Utah) Dale T. Fletcher—American Collection of the Artist Painting on page 447. Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—''And to Every Man Is Given a Gift' (D&C 46:11) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, June 1971 Each one comes to his own particular gift in his own way. Sometimes through early recognition and subsequent training one may develop such a gift to a point of excellence. Dale Fletcher was one who discovered his own gift at an early age and consequently its cultivation became a natural part of his training. Just as many families customarily enjoy activities with their children, so did the Fletchers. They went painting and sketching into the meadows, barnyards, and countryside. The children, armed with pencils, crayons, and paper, were motivated by their parents to look closely and record their impressions. By so doing they saw more and, seeing more, they developed a profound gratitude for the simplest forms of God's creation. The painting "Temple Site" was a direct result of a desire by Dale Fletcher to paint something for the first Festival of Mormon Art at Brigham Young University, in 1968. When Mr. Fletcher learned that the new Provo Temple was to be built across the street from his home, it became a sacred spot to him. Relative to his experience he said: "I waited for a day and a half out there, looking for the temple through an empty picture frame without ever touching my large white canvas. Silly, sitting among sego lilies, waiting for angels to come and pose. Faithless and impatient, I gave up and tried to paint what I saw and failed—light descending from heaven, cleaving the mountains, hallowing, redeeming grass, baptizing unto newness of leaf, working atonement, eter- = marriage, achieving godhood, with all the angels hymning in the wild wheat." Though the artist in his own eyes may have felt that he failed, to the viewer, his painting says that the very physical light is divine. From the sky God blessed all living entities with his sunshine. Each blade of grass, one by one, declares faith in the validity of individual things and conjointly displays wealth of value in the common field. To "see" not just with the eyes but with the whole mind awake is truly a great gift. 450 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FULFILLS ITS PURPOSES (continued from page 439) Society Magazine was shown and the little doll Standing on the table was dressed in the accepted style of a pre-World War I woman. In the last section a copy of the our Lamanite sisters. A flip chart pictured the people whose voices were being heard. This was a simple but very cleverly executed display. % BEAUTY IN JEWELED FRUIT (continued from Page 446) dusting with a clean brush, the fruit will last for years, retaining its perfection through repeated handlings. Durability of the fruit, pushing pins into this material soon makes the fingers sore. This problem can be eliminated by pushing the pins with a pair of small sharp nose 'HONEYMOON CAFE" BRIDAL SHOWER (continued from page 441) The following menu was served at the pictured bridal shower. Chicken over Honeymoon Rice Buttered Green Beans With Almonds Orange Blossom Molded Salad Relish Platter Crispy Rolls Strawberry Dream Cake Foil-wrapped Chocolate Kisses CHICKEN OVER HONEYMOON RICE 3 cans condensed cream of 3c. Diced cooked chicken chicken soup 6 tbsp. Chopped pimento 1% c. Milk pepper to taste 6 tsp. Soy sauce 9 c. Fluffy rice % c. Buttered crumbs Combine the soup, milk, and soy sauce in a large pot. Mix well, blending thoroughly. Place over heat, Stirring occasionally. Then add the chicken, pimento, and pepper, 451 June 1979 4 pkgs. Quick-frozen French % c. Almonds Style green beans 6 tbsp. Butter Cook beans according to directions on Package. Blanch and slice the almonds and Sauté in melteq butter. Add to the cooked beans and Season with salt. Serves 12 to 15. ORANGE BLOSSom MOLDED SaLap 2 3-0z pkgs. Orange-flavored 22 ©. Cold liquid gelatin % c. Halved maraschino cherries 1 3-0z pkg. Lemon-flavored 1 c. Drained Canned peach Slices gelatin le. Orange slices 3c, boiling water 3 sliced bananas 2 tbsp. Lemon juice CREAMY FRUIT DRESSING % c. French dressing Ye c. Sour cream Yc, mayonnaise 2 tsp. Maraschino cherry juice Mix all ingredients until smooth. Store in bow! Or jar and chill thoroughly. Makes Yc. Dressing. RELISH PLATTER Cherry tomatoes Stuffed with Celery chunks stuffed with cheese Crab salad Spread Sliced cucumbers Spiced watermelon rind Ripe olives Arrange relishes in contrasting rows on large platter. Garnish with Parsley. STRAWBERRY DREAM CAKE 1 2-layer white cake mix 3 drops red food coloring 1 gt. Strawberry ice cream lec. Whipping cream 1 pkg. Frozen Strawberry Slices 2 tbsp. Sugar with juice Martha Spratley Chadwick, Aes Stake, American Fork, Utah, is amt at all types of handwork, and is generous in sharing her lovely articles with her many friends and relatives, and Relief Society bazaars boast many pairs of embroidered pillowcas