Portrait of Julia Alleman Child Frontispiece
Indian Princess Converted Lucy Wright Snow 409
Let This Be Heaven Harrison R. Merrill 410
The 1928 Conference of Social Work Genevieve Thornton 411
Editorial—Honor Fund for President Williams 418
Helping the Adolescent to Develop a Wholesome Personality Elna Miller 423
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem 430
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 433
Guide Lessons for October 441
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Great Granddaughter of 'Naomi Harris Kellogg. Naomi Harris Kellogg was born May 5, 1800, and is the sister of Martin Harris, one of the ' Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon Indian Princess Converted By Lucy Wright Snow Miss Ella Petoskey, an Indian Princess of Grand Rapids, Michigan, was recently a guest in the home of Mr. And Mrs. Arthur E. Snow, of Detroit, where she told the following story: "T am an Indian: Princess. Chief Petosky of the town of Petosky, Michigan, which was so called after his name, was my grandfather. My Father, Ignatius. Petosky, married a woman of French descent, and I am one of the ten children of that union. The family has been scattered, I being: the only one of the ten to take scholastic education. In my youth, I attended. The Carlysle Indian School, at Philadelphia, and later graduated from college at 'Benton Harbor, Michigan. During my educational research I was possessed with a desire to ' gain knowledge of the origin of the American Indian. I also had within me a burning desire to know which of all the churches was the true Church of Jesus Christ. I made this a matter of daily prayer, supplicating my heavenly Father, in all sincerity, to guide me in its revelation to me. One day while in Kansas City, a certain business man placed in my hands a Bouk of Mormon. In this I became marvelously interested. Perusing its contents hungrily, I soon discovered, to my great joy, that it bore record of the origin of my people. After receiving this testimony, it was only a short time till I became fully convinced of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as represented by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I received baptism and confirmation at the hands of an Elder of the Church at Grand Rapids and have been an active member ever since. Let This Be Heaven~~ OH, God let this be heaven?I do not ask for golden streets, Or long for jasper walls, Nor do I sigh for pearly shores Where twilight never falls; Just leave me here beside these peaks In this rough western land. I love this hard old world of thing?Dear God, you understand. Oh God let this be heaven?Dear God, you understand. Oh God, let this be heaven?I do not crave white, stainless robes, I?ll keep these marked by toil; Instead of straight and narrow walks I love trails soft with soil; I have been healed by crystal streams But these from snow-crowned peaks Where dawn burns incense to the day And paints the sky in streaks. Dear God, let this be heaven?I do not ask for angel wings, Just leave that old peak there and let me climb ?til comes the night-I want no golden stair. Then when I say my last adieu And all farewells are given Just leave my spirit here somewhere. Oh, God, let this be heaven. Harrison R. Merrill THE Relief Society Magazine 

VOL. XV AUGUST, 1928 No. 8 The 1928 Conference of Social Work By Genevieve Thornton For fifty-five years the social workers of the United States have gathered once a year at an appointed place to carry out a definitely outlined program. They have lectures, demonstrations and discussions with a vital bearing on social work and on its developments during the preceding year. These meetings have a very stimulating effect on the entire profession. Sessions are held for a week and outstanding figures in every branch of social work are present to give to the group from their wide knowledge and experience. At the same time opportunity is given to everyone present to express his feeling on any particular angle of social work, or to give the group the benefit of any valuable thing he has experienced in the field, or to seek advice on any point in which he feels the need of special help. On May 2nd, at Memphis, Tennessee, the fifty-fifth annual meeting of the National Conference of Social Work opened. There were nearly three thousand delegates registered for the meetings this year. Utah had representatives from the Juvenile Court, the Red Cross, the Children's Service Society, the Salt Lake County Department of Charities, the Traveler's Aid Society, and the Relief Society Family Welfare Department. The Relief Society has for years supported these conference liberally; it had present three workers from the Family Welfare Department, the largest delegation of any Utah organization at the conference this year. As far as the writer could observe, no organization from as great a distance as Utah had a larger delegation in attendance. Twelve Major Divisions In the General Conference the officers and committees in charge endeavored to so arrange things that each worker could 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE follow straight through the meetings in the field in which he is most interested, if he desires. To make this possible the conference is divided into twelve major divisions as follows: Children:. II. Delinquents and Corrections. III. Health. IV. The Family. _ _V. Industrial and Economic. Problems. ~ VI: Neighborhood Community' Life. VII. Mental Hygiene. VIII. Organization of Social Forces. IX.. Public Officials and Administration. X. The Immigrant. XI. Professional Standards and Education. XII. Educational Publicity. Printed programs were furnished each delegate, giving the week's program for all the divisions. Each day was very full. There were meetings at nine o'clock and at eleven o'clock in the morning for each division; and at three p.m. The kindred groups met. In addition, each division often had a breakfast, luncheon. Or dinner meeting, and on some days all three. On some days in the regular sessions, where the subject was of vital importance to both, two or three divisions were programed to meet together. Thus the division on Children and that on Public Officials and Administration, met together when the theme was the development of better children's work throughout the state, and the keeping of standard statistics and information in regard to children cared for by both public and private institutions and agencies. The division on The Family was joined by those on Children and on Mental Hygiene when the subject for discussion was, "The Effect. Of Financial Dependency and Relief Giving on Personality and Social Attitudes." Through this frequent joining, a close relationship was maintained between all the different divisions in the discussion of problems that closely concerned them all. NOTABLE PEOPLE PRESENT Among the outstanding figures taking part, were Mr. Sherman C. Kingsley, President of the National Conference of Social Work and Director of the Welfare Federation of Philadelphia; he presided over the Conference in a dignified but sincere manner. In the Children's Division Mr. C. C. Carstons of the Child Welfare League of America, was perhaps one of the best known figures, though a large number of very capable and comparatively well known people were programed in this division. In the 'division on Delinquents and Corrections, Dr. George W. Kirch- "way of New York, himself a veteran social worker and lawyer, CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK 413 and at present connected with the New York School of Social Work, was prominent. In the health field, Dr. Eugene Lyman Fiske, Medical Director of the Life Extension Institute, New York, and Dr. H. C. Kleinschmidt, of the National Tuberculosis Association, New York, might be named. In the Division on the Family so many well known people took part that naming one or two is not significant; but Porter R. Lee of the New York School of Social Work, and President of the National Conference of Social Work for the coming year, should be mentioned; also Miss Dorothy Kahn, Executive Secretary of the Baltimore Jewish Social Service organization, who acted as chairman. In the Industrial and Economic Problems Division, Dr. John A. Lapp, of Marquette University, Milwaukee, and President of the National Conference of Social Work last year; also Professor Arthur J. Todd of Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, were leaders. The Division on Neighborhood and Community Life, while it was ably presided over by Miss Eva W. White of Boston, and was well programed, missed the presence of Jane Addams of Chicago. Division Seven, Mental Hygiene, was attended by two eminent psychiatrists—Dr. Lawson G. Lowery, of the Institute of Child Guidance, New York City, and Dr. Henry C. Schumacher, of the Child Guidance Clinic, Cleveland. In the division on the Organization of Social Forces, were Homer Folk, Secretary of the State Charities Aid Association, New York, and Miss Sophonisba P. 'Breckinridge of the School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago. Division nine, Public Officials and Administration, was presided over by William J. Ellis of Trenton, New Jersey. Division ten, The Immigrant, was 'presided over by Cecelia Razovsky, New York City; perhaps the outstanding figure here was D. Christie Tait of the International Labor Office, Geneva, Switzerland. Division eleven, on Professional Standards and Education, had as its outstanding figure, Dean Edith Abbott of the Graduate School of Social Service Administration, University of Chicago, with practically all the prominent figures in social work taking part. A few of the notable persons in the department on Educational Publicity were Frank J. Bruno of the School of Business and Public Administration, Department of Social Work of Washington University, St. Louis, and Elwood Street, Director of the Community Council of St. Louis. But this small list gives no idea of the extent or richness of personnel represented on the program. There were over three hundred people formally scheduled during the week, and many of them took an active part throughout the week in one division or another. Social work, and the National Conference of Social Work, has now reached a point in development where the success 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of such an institution as the latter depends on no particular personalities. The large numbers taking part are people of sound basic knowledge of social work and wide experience, and the number of such available persons grows yearly larger with the development of social work as a profession. RIGHTS OF CHILDHOOD In Division one, Children, the right of all children to a decent home life was stressed. Boarding-home care for children who have no suitable home, is greatly preferred to institutional care, since children are all so different in heredity, native endowment, ability, and previous environment. Each child needs individual attention from a social, physical and psychological standpoint. Last year there were more than 200,000 children taken care of in boarding-homes; and some sections, as Boston, use almost wholly the boarding-home method. No dependent child should be removed from his home because of poverty alone. A generous relief policy will keep many a family together and will retain with his family many a child that would otherwise fill a bed in an institution. Miss Florence Hutzenpillar of the U. S. Children's Bureau, spoke feelingly of the need for adequate public aid to mothers with dependent children in their own homes. The advance in state child-welfare work in one of the Southern states, was noted. The state of Alabama has now made available for child-welfare work in that state $1,000,000.00, with from $75,000 to $80,000 for administrative purposes. Each county, before this money is turned over to it, must provide itself with a trained social worker. This law has given rise to a strong demand for good social workers in that section. Another state doing good work, but not so well supplied with money, is Minnesota, in which there are a number of trained workers covering the state, each one being responsible for several counties and supervising the work of volunteer child-welfare boards. But poor results were reported by the same method from one of our Western states, where there is only a paid secretary of the State Board of Child-welfare, with no field workers to assist in administering the law and practically no money for. Administration. In the meeting, under the direction of Miss Josephine P. Brown, Associate Field Director of the National Association for Organizing Family Social Work of New York, much interest was expressed in the volunteer work done by our ward Relief Societies for families in distress. The relationship of the Headquarters Family Welfare Department with the wards of Salt Lake County, was explained by writer and also the plan of holding social service institutes in outlying stakes for the benefit of the Relief Society workers there. From North Carolina someone asked what might be the technique for CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK 415 them in securing laws and appropriations such as Alabama has. Homer Folks, Secretary of the State Charities Aid Association of New York, said, The technique for North Carolina, to get better child labor laws and more money, is to get the good women of North Carolina to sense the need." It was brought out that group life in an institution for children for more than two years is bad, as it prevents a desirable personality development; instead, boarding-home care should be secured. For those small groups of children who cannot be well handled in foster homes, suitable care in an institution must be resorted to. Since seventy per cent of all children's institutions have a population of less than one hundred, there are too many of these institutions. Dr. Emil Frankel, Director of Research of New Jersey State Department of Institutions and Agencies, Trenton, made a plea for the keeping of standard statistics by all agencies. MENTAL HYGIENE In matters of behavior problems and delinquency, both in the case of children and of adults, Dr. Lawson G. Lowrey and Dr. H. C. Schumacher gave a number of interesting talks. The value of child guidance and psychiatric service was stressed, for as Dr. Lowery stated it, what psychiatry desires to know is not so much about heredity, for we cannot treat the grandfather. "It matters not so much that John's father was a thief and his mother a sex pervert, as that they create an atmosphere in the home in which Johnnie lives. In court the question is, What did he do? In psychiatry the important question is, not what did he do, but why did he do it?" Dr. Schumacher showed that the greater the material relief, the greater becomes the dependency; and the drama is acted over and over again, if relief is given unwisely. Mr. Frank J. Bruno of St. Louis made a plea that relief be given under skilled supervision. This note of the fear of the effects of indiscriminate relief giving on personality, ran through the divisions on The Family, Mental Hygiene, and Public Officials and Administration. In regard to the sick person and personality problems, Dr. Lowery said, "The neurotic needs mental hygiene rather than to be told merely to go home, that there is nothing wrong with him." It was noted that most retarded children have about three years bad experience in school before being placed in a special class. It was urged that these special classes be graded according 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the age of the child, regardless of what work he is actually accomplishing. Family Division In the Family Division considerable attention was given to the question of how much regularity there is in the process of family case work throughout the country, and a reliable basis for reporting comparable statistics. Mr. Ralph G. Hurlin, Department of Statistics, Russell Sage Foundation, New York, reported the results of a very interesting study made by that Foundation in the past two years, indicating that while there is considerable variation in reports received from the forty-two agencies concerned, still there are very definite factors. In another meeting, the need for more scientific units for expressing personality qualities in our record systems, was stressed. "The personality treasures are there," said Miss Gordon Hamilton of the New York School of Social Work, "with practically no map or chart for picking them out. And we have also failed to work out any clear indication of process in case work and in treatment records, where service figures more largely than the need for material relief. Situational data is available and so is definition of the problem, but we still must achieve some units for recording personality." The Family Division, as already mentioned, is also much concerned with the care of dependent children in their own home by means of public aid for mothers. In certain states the State Department of Public Welfare administers the aid and in most states such aid is supervised by it.; On the care of the dependent aged, discussion centered around the questions: What happens to the chronic sick? Is it better to supplement the income of the aged rather than transplant them into a new environment? Shall we stress the pension idea? The right of every needy old person to be cared for in his old age, with a measure of happiness thrown in, was declared. The idea of old-age pensions was looked upon with favor, if it be elastic and well administered. INDUSTRIAL PROBLEMS In the Division on Industrial and Economic Problems was a symposium on the social and economic effects of prohibition. It brought out the following points: 1. A decided decrease in clients receiving aid from welfare organizations; fewer men get drunk, although there is perhaps an increase in the use of home brew; 2. There has been a decrease in the garnisheeing of wages of working men; 3. Men are more frequently at home or at places of amusement with their family than before prohibition; 4. More houses are being built; 5. Fewer men are reported in jail; 6. There is not so much. Intemperance which agencies have to deal with—"the next generation will tell the story." Dr. John CONFERENCE OF. SOCIAL WORK 417 A. Lapp stated that in his home town ''all the old soaks are now dead and no new ones have arisen to take their places.'  In the division on Professional Standards and Education XII Educational Publicity The need for upholding the finest professional standards of both social work and training for it, was stressed. It was said that there are twenty-three schools in the United States offering courses in social work, two of the larger being the Graduate School of Social Work of the University of Chicago, and the New York School of Social Work. In the plea for: building and upholding high standards, Dean Edith Abbott of the Chicago School, said: "We must not be discouraged in. This, for as late as 18/0 President Elliot of Harvard University received this answer from the head of the medical school when Dr. Elliot suggested that some higher standard than the five-minute oral examination required be given medical students graduating from that school: 'We couldn't give a long written examination for graduation from medical school 'because 'many of the men cannot write'." The need for and the importance of rural social work was stressed. Robert Kelso of the Boston Council of Social Agencies, stated that the most vivid sign of rural New England is the hotdog stand, and the roadhouse is its greatest vice: that Massachusetts has too much palliative charity 'and not enough' constructive social service. Professor N. B. Bond of the University of Mississippi replied by saying that he came from a state $0 rural that a hot-dog stand indicated a metropolitan community; that, on account of their scattered population and negro problem, the work of their rural workers is very different. SPECIAL Group MEETINGs, In addition to the twelve divisions. Programed above, there were about thirty kindred and special groups meeting regularly during the 3:00 o'clock hour each day, such as The. American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers, the National: Travelers' Aid Societies, and the National Conference of Social' Service 'of the Protestant Episcopal Church. The Catholic and the Jewish people always take an active part at these social conferences. Ox  GENERAL SESSIONS  The evenings were given over to — inspirational, sessions. President Sherman C. Kingsley, Owen Lovejoy, John A. Lapp, Reverend Reinhold Niebuhr of Detroit and Rabbi. William H. Fineshriber of Philadelphia, and Julia. Lathrop, formerly of the. U. S. Children's Bureau and now. Of the Child Welfare Committee of the Nations—all brought inspirational messages. One evening was given over to a discussion of disaster relief with pictures of the Mississippi flood, which had occurred almost a year  418 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  to a day from the date of that meeting. Saturday evening. May 5th, was given over to the Memphis reception to the Conference, in the beautiful ball-room of the Peabody Hotel, where true Southern charm and hospitality were manifest. Another evening was spent in listening to Reverend Reinhold Niebuhr, Pastor of the Bethel Evangelical Church, Detroit, who talked on Religious Imagination and the Scientific Method. He feels that man's real fight now is against an impersonal civilization rather than against an impersonal universe. He says a person often frantically repents of the petty sin in order to shield a major one; and that it should be our aim to develop intelligence in ourselves and others and yet preserve the scientific, poetic and the religious outlook on life. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS The final meeting of the conference was the general session, at which international relations were discussed. Prof. Arthur J. Todd of Northwestern University made a strong plea for interest of the progressive Western nations in the present economic problems of the Orient. Miss Julia Lathrop spoke tellingly of the Social Implications of International Relations; particularly of her experience and service in Europe with the (Child Welfare Committee of the League of Nations, pointing out that this committee has been active since its organization in 1925, especially in bettering the working conditions of children. For instance, in the Persian Rug industry it was found that little children sat daily in cramped positions, working on the lovely 'Persian rugs everyone admires, until their little limbs became so distorted that by and by they could not walk to work, but were carried, and worked as long as their little fingers could move. And then, when they died. As many of them did, other children were brought in to take their places. When Persia saw its neighbors actively interested, it at once took up the matter of bettering conditions. Miss Lathrop feels that our greatest opportunity in fostering internationalism lies in our relations with South American states, which are struggling for better social and political development. She mentioned especially Uruguary and Chile as having very good representatives in the Child Welfare Committee at Geneva. The United States Children's Bureau has already sponsored delegates to assist Chile in a conference on child welfare work at Santiago. The general conference of 1928 ended in a burst of applause when Porter R. Lee, president of the Conference for the coming year, was presented to the group and spoke some words of appreciation and confidence in the coming year's work. Then the cry, "On to San Francisco. In 1929," went up. The Conference adjourned in a feeling of general appreciation for the help given social workers by the conference this year. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS::::: -: President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - -. _ First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - — Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs, Elise B. Alder Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - - - - Clarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Director: - Alice Louise Reynolds Assistant Manager - -: - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

Vol. XV AUGUST, 1928 No. 8
EDITORIAL
Honor Fund for President Williams
An Honor Fund for President Williams, to be known as The Clarissa S. Williams Honor Loan Fund for Public Nurses, has been founded. One of our first experiences in Relief Society work was that of sitting at a graduation exercise of nurses in the General Board Room of the Relief Society, and watching the glow of interest on President Williams' face as those young women received their certificates of graduation. At all times suggestions providing opportunity for the training of nurses has elicited from her keen interest. This is largely due to the fact that she realizes that in the hands of trained nurses lies the weal or woe of countless mothers and children; for it is in the health and lives of these mothers and children that President Williams has at all times been vitally concerned. It was largely through her effort that a one-year course for nurse aids was established at the L. D. S. Hospital which promised much; but owing to advancing hospital standards, the hospital was notified that the one-year course must be discontinued. At a banquet given by the Stake Presidents for the General
420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Board during the April conference of 1896, Mrs. Mary A. Cutler, senior president of the Salt Lake Stakes, on behalf of the stakes of the Church, presented President Williams with $600.00 to found an Honor Fund in her name, to be known as the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund and to be used in any way she might designate. Frequently in the intervening time, President Williams had pondered the matter, yet had not been able to decide upon a project that entirely met her thoughts and feelings. Finally, an unusual number of applications for loans from the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund, already established by the General Board, made it necessary to seek further for money to meet the requests. A suggestion from Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, to the effect that the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund be combined with the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund met with President Williams' hearty approval and likewise with the approval of her counselors. The matter was presented to the General Board, which followed Mrs. Lyman's recommendation that the Relief Society Public Health Nurse Loan Fund and the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Fund be combined and be known as the Clarissa S. Williams Honor Loan Fund for Public Health Nurses, making a fund of $2,650.00, and further that this fund be increased by the General Board from $2,650.00 to $3,000.00, the additional money to be taken from the Contingent fund of the Board and that a separate committee be appointed for this fund. It was moved by Counselor Jennie B. Knight and seconded by Amy W. Evans. The motion was carried unanimously. President Williams expressed her heartfelt appreciation for the honor conferred upon her by adding to her Honor Fund, the amount which had been originally appropriated for a Public Health Nurse Loan Fund. She stated that she could think of no other use to which the money might be put that would give her so much pleasure as to have a loan fund for hospital nurses desiring to take up public health nursing. President Williams appointed the committee to administer this fund. We feel sure that the announcement of the establishment of this fund will be most gratifying to Relief Society workers everywhere, not only because of its value, but because it is forward looking in the very highest sense of the word. Well trained public health nurses form a corps of new evangelists of the gospel of health, whose business it is to teach and protect health rather than restore when health is broken. Within the month we have read an editorial in a medical journal predicting that the time is not far distant when physicians would spend more time teaching than doing any other thing. The editor, himself a physician, stated that emphasis, in the future, will be placed on the art and science of teaching people
EDITORIAL 421
the laws of health?that they might know how to obtain and retain health. This ideal, if realized, would make the practice of medicine as we now know it almost superfluous. That the name of President Williams should be allied to a project that promises so much for the future, is a source of gratification to Relief Society workers.
The Primary Jubilee
INFLUENCE OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS
Since the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Primary Association, much has been said in relation to the influence that this organization has had upon the lives of outstanding men and women. We recall a story told by Dr. Harvey Fletcher, now prominent among American scientists, at a dinner where he was a guest just before he was engaged to do the work he is following with such signal success in the city of New York. Dr. Fletcher desired that there should be no misunderstanding on the part of the people who were about to request his services, as he wished them to know just who he was and just what he professed. They noticed that he did not drink nor smoke, and that tea and coffee were not on his list of indulgences. When asked how it came about, he said he was a "Mormon" boy, trained in "Mormon" institutions all his life, and that when a little child in the Primary Association, he was taught that tea and coffee, tobacco and liquor, were not good for people. The air has been full of complimentary and appreciative expressions for the beautiful program staged June 8, 9 and 10th in commemoration of the founding of the Primary Association, fifty years ago. The Relief Society is particularly interested in it as an achievement, planned, fostered and put over by women. It is true that some of the uninitiated doubted the ability of women to put over the two pageants and such an exhibition of fun and frolic as was seen from the bleachers of the stadium of the University of Utah on Saturday evening, June 9th, without the assistance of men, but these modern "doubting Thomases," like the one of scriptural fame, were convinced by seeing. Seeing is believing, and words of appreciation from many sources have not been lacking to describe this outstanding event in the history of this much beloved organization of children. We have heard many people praise its success in enthusiastic language; we know of those who have referred to it as 'magnificent from start to finish.' The words used do not make much difference; the main thing is the appreciation felt by those who took
422 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
part, and those who beheld it and in whom joyous thoughts and joyous feelings were aroused. We extend to the teachers of these children: the Ward presidents, Stake presidents and the General Board of the Primary Association and the Executive Committee of the Board, our heartiest congratulations.
PROGRAM IN THE TABERNACLE
The Tabernacle session of the Jubilee, with its well timed and well planned program, featuring the mother heart in a setting of color of the children's own creation, demonstrated once again that we are living in a new era, for not only is the mother heart with all its understanding and appreciation of the little things that go to make up a happy child life, supposed to function in the home, but it is supposed to function in the big outside world, and carry to all children, as far as possible, the blessings, so often in the past vouchsafed only to the few. In other words, every woman with a gift for doing or saying something that may enrich or assist children to be healthy, good and happy, is supposed to pool her knowledge for the good of all?that all children, as far as it is humanly possible, may enjoy those priceless blessings of life that Jesus, who loved little children, intended should be the heritage of all.
APPRECIATION BY RELIEF SOCIETY
The following letter was sent by the General Board of the Relief Society to the General Board of the Primary:
President May Anderson and Members of the General Board of the Primary Association, 39 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Dear Sisters: I am directed by the General Board of Relief Society to extend to you the hearty congratulations of our board for your most successful and glorious jubilee, and to thank you most heartily and cordially for the reserved seats you so kindly furnished the members of the General Board of Relief Society. We feel that your jubilee was one of the most remarkable episodes which has been brought about by any of our Church groups. It was thrilling, entertaining and inspirational, as well as having real historical value. We wish you continued success.
Very Sincerely yours, In Behalf of the General Board of Relief Society. (Mrs.) Amy Brown Lyman, General Sec.
Helping the Adolescent to Develop a Wholesome Personality
By Elna Miller of the Extension Division of the Agricultural College of North Dakota
The problem of helping the adolescent boy or girl to develop a wholesome personality is one of the most important undertakings with which those of us who are interested in young people have to deal. The attitude and reactions toward life which are developed during these years, will largely determine the individual's success in his chosen profession, his success as a citizen, his success in marriage, and his success as a parent. If the child is to reach maturity with a possibility for a full realization of his best self, we must help the adolescent to solve his two most complex problems.
Two Great Problems of Youth
The first of these problems is, by a process of mental and emotional weaning, to break himself away from depending upon home ties. The second is to establish a wholesome attitude towards, and a desire for, successful mating and marriage relationship. We can best help the youth to solve these two great issues only by an understanding of the background which has influenced his development during the years of his childhood, as well as the changing conditions which are taking place during his adolescent years.
What is Adolescence?
Adolescence is often defined as a bridge which crosses the chasm between childhood and manhood. For ages past, these years have been looked upon as a period of great stress and strain for the parent; and we have failed to realize that it is one of far greater stress and strain for the child who is standing on the threshold of youth, struggling to emerge into manhood or womanhood. These are the years when the individual must test out the wholesomeness of his previous years. We cannot discuss the characteristics of the adolescent without looking back upon the ten or twelve years which have preceded this period; only thus can we acquaint ourselves with changes in the child's development. Life's changes are gradual and rhythmic. One period overlaps another so closely that it is difficult for one who is constantly with the child to recognize these changes. While we
424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
cannot make any absolute rule stating that every child is in a definite period at a given age, yet we can make a general division which should help us to know how to deal with the child at different periods.
The Two Early Periods
One classification considers the child's development from the physical, the mental and emotional as well as the social and spiritual standpoints. It begins with infancy. During the first two years the child learns to sit up, to creep, to walk, and, in a limited manner, to talk. He should learn also the beginning of good food habits. The child's years from two to six are known as his language period. This is his time for forming good speech habits. He must learn the words that will help him express his thoughts. During this time the child must be given every opportunity possible to express himself. Children of this age should be seen and heard. This is also the chief period of habit formation and character training. The child must form the habits of proper food selection, of personal cleanliness, both internal and external, and of getting sufficient rest and exercise. In addition to these physical health habits, the child must learn the habits of mental health. He must develop habits of wholesome social relationship, and lay the foundation for his spiritual development.
Period of Experiments
The third period in the child's life?a direct outgrowth of his first five or six years and extending on to the tenth or twelfth year?is one of experimentation. He is concerned with testing life. Things seem somewhat vague and are not clear cut. The child struggles to see things clearly and is a stickler for facts. He is busy gathering the tools which he is to need in his adult years. He learns his rules, his tables and formulas. He is not so much concerned with reasons as he is with facts. His likes and dislikes change abruptly. One day he may have spurts of interest in one direction and the next day his interest takes an entirely different turn. Towards the end of this period the child emerges with the framework of his moral being rather well built. He should have acquired the fundamentals of character, such as truth, loyalty, honesty and other desirable qualities.
The Adolescent Age
After the period of tool gathering and experimenting, the child reaches the adolescent years and finds himself filled with a burning desire to try these tools out for himself. The years between twelve or fourteen and eighteen or twenty are likely to be filled with emotional conflicts. The
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 425
child now loves to argue and is never satisfied until he is on the winning side. He bursts forth into flights of oratory. He is temperamental and trigger-tempered. One moment finds him acting like a man, the next day may find him crying like a child. He is inconsistent and inconstant. One minute he is prone to work and play beyond his strength and the next to be consumed with fatigue.
Introvert and Extrovert Types
Frequently the child is shy and self-conscious, particularly if he belongs to what is known as the introvert type. Introvert means turning inward, and the introvert individual is one who turns his thoughts inward. He shuns the limelight and does not meet people easily. He builds a wall about his personality to avoid contact with others. He feels deeply but cannot express himself. He keeps to himself much of the time, not because he does not like to be with people, but because he finds it difficult to be a good mixer. During the adolescent years we find the individual who is directly opposite from the introvert type. This we call the extrovert, which means turning outward. The extrovert has an open natured, active personality. He is self confident, a good mixer, and loves to show off. He puts forth great effort to make a favorable impression on the public. He is inclined to be self-centered and egotistical. Each of these types needs particular care during the adolescence. The quiet, retiring, self-conscious type needs encouragement in expressing himself, and much help in establishing self-confidence and self-esteem. The child of the opposite type may need a certain amount of careful suppression, lest he develop a personality too bold and overbearing.
Periods of Emotional Growth
Because of the complex emotional situation of these years, it is well to know the various periods in the emotional growth of the child. Every normal child passes through a period when the mother has the chief influence over his emotions, another when the father's influence is uppermost, and still another when the strongest influence comes from the school. While the boy and the girl each pass through these various stages, the age limits differ for the two sexes. The emotional phases for the girl may be classified as follows: From infancy until eight or nine years is the mother phase. From nine until fifteen years is the school phase. From fifteen until eighteen years is the father phase. From eighteen on is the mating phase. The boy's emotional periods are distributed in the following divisions:
426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Until seven or eight years is the mother phase. From eight to twelve is the father phase. From twelve to eighteen is the school phase. From eighteen on is the mating phase. These divisions are not always clear cut and the age at which they develop may vary a year or two, but in general, we may accept this division. To understand how best to help the child and also to know who can best help him at different ages in his development, is the problem.
Two Body-Types
Just as mental and emotional changes are most conspicuous during the adolescent years, so also are physical changes. Up to this time the child's growth has been rather steady and gradual, but now we find physical development taking uneven spurts. The child passes through a stage of awkwardness when he seems to be all legs and arms. His bad posture is due to poor muscular development; and this awkwardness increases his sensitiveness. With this rapid, outward, physical change, occur distinct changes in the body proportions. They take on two forms: the tall, thin child with the long legs and arms and short trunk; and the child with the long trunk and short arms and legs. The individual with the short trunk has small lungs and heart and a limited circulatory system. The intestine is short. The chest is inclined to be hollow, and the abdominal organs have a tendency to sag downward. This means more difficulty for the girl. This type tires much more easily and can stand less physical strain. The child with the shorter legs and arms and longer trunk has a larger heart and lungs and his circulation is better. He has a larger digestive tract with a long intestine. He usually has greater endurance than has the short-body type. The boy's voice at this time begins to take on a more masculine quality. This makes him more sensitive and self-conscious. The boy often starts a sentence in the shrill high pitched voice of a child and before he gets the sentence finished his voice is away down in a low pitched bass key.
Home Ties vs. Independence
We should first acquaint ourselves with some of the conditions which the adolescent has to face, as well as with the factors which have influenced his development before reaching these years. Then we shall be in a better position to know how to help the adolescent to develop a wholesome personality. With these facts in mind, we can provide the necessary environment and thus help the adolescent to solve his two complex problems: (1) breaking away from home ties and (2) establishing a wholesome attitude toward his love life.
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 427
If the child is to develop his own personality he must have the apron strings loosened, so that his dependence upon home ties can be broken. During the adolescent period the child should be able to put away childish things; he should have left home, in feelings, by the time he is twenty. Many children grow up to the point of leaving the parental roof, and yet remain homesick for the rest of their lives. On the other hand, we find children who remain at home and because of careful training are able to outgrow their feeling of dependence upon the parents and the home. This process of breaking away from home ties does not in any way mean running away from home, nor showing disrespect for parents and home. It means that the child is arriving at the point where he can live his own life, think for himself, and make his own decisions. He is no longer to rely absolutely upon parents to make his life plans. The wise parent will advise and direct so that the child will make his own decisions.
Train in Self-Reliance
The best age to start this process of mental and emotional weaning is during the mother phase in the child's emotional growth; that is during the first eight or nine years. During these years the child should be given every opportunity to rely upon himself and to become independent. He should learn to dress himself, to care for his personal belongings, to keep his toys in order and to do such other things as are well within his ability. At this age, on many things the child can use his own power of decision. Bobbie may well be left to decide whether he should wear the blue or the tan blouse, the striped or the plain stockings. Likewise, Betty should be consulted as to whether the new dress is to be pink or yellow and whether it should be plain or ruffled.
The Real Mother
The mother who is more interested in the child's welfare than in her own emotional indulgence, will help him to tear himself away from his mother's emotional life. No crippling bandage should remain to fetter his independent action. The petted and pampered child, whose mother is overanxious, is prevented from developing independence both of thought and of action. The child should so develop that he will take his place beside others. In the adolescent period the child is beyond the point where he enjoys taking orders and having set plans made for him. He must have freedom to develop his own interests, to discover for himself, to experiment, and even to make mistakes. The adolescent youth feels himself ready for responsibility. He wants to be accepted as a grown person and to break the habits of parental domination. He is ready to strike out for himself. This is the
428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
time for parents and teachers to take their hands off, and let him demonstrate this power of shifting for himself. Because of parents' eagerness to protect them, boys and girls are often prevented from being themselves. A typical example is revealed in the following plea from a vivacious young thing who demands her chance to become an individual:
A Daughter Speaks Out
"Why don't mothers understand youth?' the girl's letter reads. "Can't they remember that they were girls once? Or weren't mothers ever seventeen? Don't you think a senior in high school should ever think for herself? Mother dictates every move I make. She tells me when to practice my music, when to study my algebra, and when to go to bed. She even tells me how to wash dishes and where to put them away, just as though I hadn't done them for my whole lifetime. I hate them all because mother is always telling me when and how to do things.
"I shouldn't mind doing what mother dictates if she would ever let me do anything I want to do. I wanted to work in the drug store after school to earn some spending money for myself so I wouldn't have to account to mother for everything, but she refused to let me for fear I'd meet 'some questionable salesman and run away with him.
"Instead of having an allowance of my own, I have to ask mother for every cent and then tell her what I intend to spend it for. I can't even buy an ice cream cone without giving a tearful account of it.
"Mother even wants to choose all my friends. I never feel safe in having girls come to the house because mother sits in the room all the time and monopolizes all the conversation, or else she sits in the next room and eavesdrops on every word. She even wants to answer all the questions anyone asks me. I can't have a boy friend come to the house and I can never go to a party with one without a frightful scene.
"Mother is suspicious of me all the time. She opens all my letters and decides whether I shall see them. When I get little notes from the girls, she accuses me of trying to put something over on her.
"Mother says she is doing all this to protect me from the world. I don't want to be protected. Neither do I want to be bad, but can't a girl of seventeen be good and be happy at the same time? I just want to have freedom to live my own life, to make my own decisions, and to use my own mind. Mother has controlled my mind for so long that I feel as though I have very little mind of my own left.
To Prevent One-Sidedness
"I love mother dearly, and I don't want to make her un-
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 429
happy; but I must have a chance to grow and to try out some things in life for myself. I want to have a personality of my own, and not live out all my years just being mother's shadow."
How many more boys and girls are suffering from such domination and yet are keeping all their pent-up emotions to themselves! During this period, by increasing his interests outside the home, we can do much toward helping the child to become an independent individual. His social contacts should be increased. He should be encouraged in group organizations such as scout work or camp-fire boys and girls clubs and similar organizations. These provide for self expression and prevent the child from becoming too self-centered. A broad interest in good music, in good literature, or in beautiful works of art, will prevent a one-sided development.
Preparation for Love-Life
To develop a desirable state of mind towards the mating phase of one's life, is a task quite as complex as is that of breaking away from parental bondage. Its success depends, quite extensively, on the degree to which the child is able to escape from the emotional home ties. Here again we must refer back to the period in the child's emotional development which we called the mother phase. If the mother has left too many emotional wrappings about the child during this period, the adolescent boy or girl has much difficulty in making healthy associations with individuals of the opposite sex. The mother who has monopolized the child's emotional life during the mother phase to such an extent that the child enjoys her association to the exclusion of friends of his own age, is doing much toward thwarting the normal development of the child's love-life. Mothers often beam with pride as they say "Richard is mother's sweetheart. He would much rather take mother out for a good time than girls of his own age," or "Alice and I are just like sisters. I never worry about her because she always wants to be with me. She is not interested in other girls, and I am so glad that she has no use for boys." Mothers who really understand the needs of boys and girls of this age will encourage Richard to take other girls to an occasional show and will widen Alice's circle to include both boys and girls of her own age whenever possible. The petted child who is too closely connected with his mother is unable to make the simplest human adjustments required by the transfer of affections to the boy or girl outside the home family.
What Youth Should Know
Since the adolescent is what he is by virtue of his childhood, it is much less of a problem to provide a wholesome environment
430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
for him at this critical time if we have paved the way from his earliest years. The mother who has kept faith with her child has kept the child's confidence, so that she has less difficulty in helping him make the necessary adjustments during these changing years. Before the pronounced physical changes take place, the boy and girl should be informed as to what these changes mean. The parent who has kept the child's confidence by answering all of the child's questions from his earliest years, has no difficulty in presenting these fundamental facts of life. The time to do this is while the child is still in the questioning stage, before he reaches the years when he is self-conscious and is less interested in facts than he is in sensations. The girl must be prepared for the process of menstruation before her figure shows signs of change. She should understand that this is a perfectly normal function which should give her no discomfort nor pain, provided she is in a state of positive health with her muscles firm and well developed and her blood and digestion what they should be. This period should not be looked upon as a sick time. The girl should refrain from strenuous physical activity, but a small amount of exercise during these days is far better than none at all. Personal cleanliness is more important at this time than at any other.
Clean and Wholesome
The girl must have the proper food habits well established. She must know the value of perfect cleanliness, both internal and external. She should not only know what healthful clothing and shoes are, but she should wear this kind. The girl should learn to feel that her responsibility to future generations is to maintain a clean, strong, healthy body, so that the life stream may pass on through her, unhampered by physical defects. Before the boy's voice begins to deepen, he should know the changes he may expect. He must know his contribution in living a clean, wholesome life and must become perfectly familiar with the essentials of hygiene.
Conserving This Strength
It is necessary both for the boy and for the girl to know and to practice all the rules of the health game. Since there is a great tendency during these years to work and play far beyond their physical strength, they must provide for sufficient rest. It is during these years that so many extra activities aside from their school work loom up to sap their vitality and there is great danger of neglecting to get sufficient sleep and rest. There is no other time during the growing period, after the first year or two, when weight is quite such an important
HELPING THE ADOLESCENT 431
factor. Most of our tuberculosis develops during the years between twelve and twenty. It is the underweight boy or girl who may contract this disease. Girls are more susceptible than boys of this age because girls are more likely to be underweight. The present craze among girls to retain a boyish figure through a process of unbalanced dieting, accompanied by wearing too few clothes, seems to be responsible for a good deal of tuberculosis among our young girls. Boys and girls of those years should be from ten to fifteen pounds overweight in order to build up sufficient resistance against infectious diseases during these critical years.
Encourage Group Fun
About this time the girl takes a keener interest in boys and in clothes and thinks less of games and physical activities. Because of this development, it is well to encourage group fun involving both boys and girls. She needs much association with boys during these years if she is to develop a healthy attitude toward adult responsibilities; but it should be both boys and girls, rather than a pairing off with any single boy during the early adolescent years. If she is to make a successful choice as to her life mate, she must have an opportunity to know many different types of personalities. The boy, likewise, is beset with emotional changes. He should understand that he will have a new need for self-control. He will have new sensations and different feelings toward girls than he has ever had before. He must be encouraged in group activities. Athletics and different types of competitive games afford a desirable safety valve as an outlet for the boy's new emotional sensations.
Do Not Trifle With Youth
During this period we should encourage group fun. If the girl's interest in boys is made light of, or likewise if the boy who shows an interest in girls is teased over the situation, we are defeating our purpose of developing the proper attitude between the sexes. If we are to help the adolescent with the second of his two greatest problems, we shall encourage wholesome associations between boys and girls. It is not always necessary, nor even desirable, to have evident adult supervision over all parties involving both boys and girls. If we have been careful in building our foundation for this period, we can well take our hands off and give youth a chance to assert itself. Too many restrictions prevent a full realization of the individual's best self. The individual who feels that his parents have faith and trust in him, is far less inclined to overstep the bounds of propriety than is the one who feels that he is constantly being guarded and watched over.
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Announcement, 1928
The memorial shall be known as the Eliza Roxey Snow Prize Memorial Poem, and shall be awarded by the Relief Society annually.
Rules of the Contest
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, but only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. Two prizes will be awarded, a first prize, consisting of $20, and a second prize, consisting of $10.
2. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written, and should be without signature or other identifying marks.
3. Only one side of the paper should be used.
4. Each contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of any editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
5. Each poem must be accompanied with a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
6. No member of the General Board, nor persons connected with the office force of the Relief Society, shall be eligible to this contest.
7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers.
8. The poem must be submitted not later than October 15. The prize poems will be published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit, not winning special awards, will receive honorable mention; the editors claiming the right to publish any poems submitted, the published poems to be paid for at the regular Magazine rates. All entries should be sent to Alice L. Reynolds, Associate Editor, Relief Society Magazine, 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not later than October 15.
Notes From the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
Salt Lake Stake (Mothers' Festival). Congratulations are due Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and her co-workers for the excellent record made during the year; also for the successful mothers' pageants held in each of the wards in May. In order to increase the membership in the various wards, and to encourage the young mothers to attend, it was decided by the stake board when the year's program was outlined in September, ae to adopt a stake slogan and to hold a mothers' festival in ay. The slogan was, "Every mother a member in the Relief Society." The stake, together with each of the 13 wards, had banners tastefully decorated with the above inscription and placed in all of the ward chapels and Relief Society rooms. A topic on this subject was also incorporated in the ward Relief Society conferences during the past year. In order to help finance the program for the mothers' festival, a stake bazaar was held May 4th, in which all wards participated. One feature of the afternoon was a drawing for attendance prizes, the articles being donated by local business houses in the stake. This event was cleverly conducted by Mr. Ben Erway of the Wilkes Theatre. In the evening a most creditable entertainment was given. The musical program was presented by some of the best local talent in the city. A one-act play, "So's Your Aunt Anna," was given by stake and ward members. This brought out unusual talent which will be of future service to the stake. The net proceeds of the bazaar were $160.00. Each ward was given tickets to sell and the wards were allowed 50% of the proceeds. _In preparation for the mothers' festival each ward was given a suggestive program and letter of instructions, together with copies of the ladies' trio, "Mother," composed by Alfred M. Durham of the 17th ward Bishopric and dedicated to the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, also lists of mother stories for retold stories, and games for the kindergarten group. On the appointed day everything was-in readiness.~ The ward amusement halls were all tastefully decorated with palms and plants. Booths of art work made at the work and business meetings were upon exhibit. The visiting teachers were most gracious as reception committees. WOMEN WHO HAVE HAD CONTINUOUS MEMBERSHIP IN THE SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY FROM FIFTY TO SIXTY YEARS Back row?left to right: Sarah C. Folsom, Eliza Thomas, Frances Wallace, Ethelwynne Pratt. Front row ?left to right: Lucinda Ure, Hettie Davis, Emma Taylor, Effie M. Ashton ? NOTES FROM THE FIELD 435 The following program was carried out in each ward: 1:30?Reception by 'Ward and Stake Officers. 1:55?Music: Ward organist?Lullaby music. Program?2:00 O'clock Singing: Congregation. Prayer. Music. Welcome: Ward President?5 minutes. Music. Short retold story: Ward Literary Teacher?10 minutes. The Glory of Motherhood: Stake Board member?5 minutes. Music. Short Drama: "Cornelia" (Relief Society Magazine, November, 1926?30 minutes). Music Presentation of prizes. (a) Oldest mother present. (b) Youngest mother present. (c) Mother with largest family present. (d) Mother with husband or children on missions. (e) Mothers who had given the greatest number of missionaries to the Church. (f) Mother making the best Relief Society attendance record during 1927-1928. (g) Stake prize for mother present with the longest membership record in Relief Society in Salt Lake. Stake. (h) Stake cash prize to the wards having the greatest number of new members (on percentage basis) from September, 1927, to May 15, 19281lst prize $7.00; 2nd prize $5.00; 3rd prize $3.00 to the ward having the best attendance at Union meeting. Grand march of mothers, led by those who have borne the most children. Presentation of mother cards (furnished by stake board) by Mutual or Primary girls. Light refreshments (served cafeteria style). Doxology. Benediction. The results and total count showed the following: Mothers present 1,500 Grandmothers 500 500 Great Grandmothers.......... 105 Great great Grandmothers..................... 3 Oldest mother present?age........... 88 436 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Youngest mother present?age............ 17 Mothers who had filled missions................ 25 Mothers who had had the longest continuous membership in Salt Lake Stake Relief Society: Mrs. Hettie Davis...........66 years Lucinda Ure...62 " "Ethelwynne Pratt............Eliza Thomas............ 54 Frances Wallace............ Sarah C. Folsom.............50 Emma Taylor............ Effie M. Ashton..........50 When it was found that there were eight women who had had over fifty years membership in Salt Lake Stake, the stake board was more than delighted to give eight gifts instead of one. The wards having the greatest number of new members with paid up dues (on percentage basis) from September, 1927, to May 15, 1928, and receiving prizes, were: 17th Ward 1st prize?38 new members. 14th Ward 2nd prize?l9 new members. 23rd Ward 3rd prize?Most perfect attendance at Union meeting. The total number of new members in all wards was 138. As a surprise to the ward presidents each was given a prize as the Mother of the Relief Society. One ward presented the Bishop with a gift as the Father of the ward. The festival was the most successful and inspiring activity in the history of the stake; as a result, many old members have renewed their activities in the various wards. One factor which contributed to the great success of the festival was the careful planning by the stake board. The following suggestions were sent out far in advance of the festival date? May 115: 1. Secure the use of the amusement hall. Have a booth of articles that have been made at your work and business meeting on exhibition. Decorate hall. 2. Have nothing gloomy and sad in this program. 3. Feature mother songs and lullaby music. 4, Invite all mothers of the ward regardless of creed. 5. Have nursery arranged in another part of the building for small children (Stake recreational leader will provide suggestive games for this group; also assist you with the drama. Enlist the cooperation of M. I. A. Girls). 6. Arrange for gifts, for prizes, and for souvenirs of the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 437 day for each mother present, such as flowers, candy, mother cards, etc. 7. Send a gift to the mothers who are home-bound, or who are absent because of illness. 8. Honor those who have taken children to rear just as though they had borne them. 9. Secure the gifts for prizes by having some of the articles made at your work and business meeting, or at a specially appointed work day. (Stake art teacher will have suggestions for you). 10. Collect contributions from business houses in your wards, and ask the Bishop to cooperate with you in raising funds for this occasion. Funds may also be secured from the sale of tickets for the stake entertainment, May 4, 1928. 11. Have the gifts and prizes wrapped and numbered the day before the festival. 12> Ask each pair of teachers to prepare a complete list of mothers in their district and hand to you at the work and business meeting in April. The teachers should also have a copy with them at the festival and act as a reception committee, each teacher paying special attention to those from her district. 13. All Relief Society officers and visiting teachers should be at the meeting house at 1:30 p. M. 14. A stake board member will be assigned to each ward to help carry forward this program. Report to her the day of the festival the number of new members enrolled since September, 1927. 15. The stake music department will provide list of suitable musical numbers; the stake literary leader will assist in preparing suitable story if desired. 16. The visiting teachers' leaflet for May will be devoted to the festival, and will convey an invitation to all mothers in the ward. 17. See that announcements are made at Sacrament meetings regarding the festival. A leaflet was distributed by the teachers the first week in May, with the following inscription and invitation: "Mother's Day is a pretty idea which has taken root in our country and seems destined to grow.' It was Miss Ann Jarvis of Philadelphia who succeeded in getting a day set apart as a national Mother's Day. It is a day when every man, woman and child should honor his mother in some way. "The Salt Lake Stake Relief Society has set apart May 15th for a Mother's Festival in your ward to honor our mothers. We desire the attendance of every woman in the ward that we may rejoice together in the bonds of love and friendship, and mingle 438 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE our voices in song and thanksgiving for the greatest of all human responsibilities?that of motherhood." REORGANIZATIONS European Mission. Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, wife of President John A. Widtsoe of the European mission, was appointed president of the Relief Societies of this mission the first of the year, succeeding Mrs. May Booth Talmage, who, with her husband, President James E. Talmage, was honorably released from missionary labors in Europe. Immediately upon her appointment, Mrs. Widtsoe set about to plan for the 'year's work. She first sent out a circular letter of greeting to all the branch societies, and arranged that instructions and suggestions would be sent out from time to time in the Auxiliary Guide, a copy of which accompanied her letter. The Guide is a neat mimeographed paper filled with instructions and items of interest to the auxiliary organizations in" Europe. Through the courtesy of President Widtsoe the Millennial Star of March 15 was devoted largely to the work of the Relief Society and the work of the women of the Church, containing articles by Mrs. Widtsoe, and an editorial by President Widtsoe. It was called the "Anniversary Number" in honor of the anniversary of the Society which occurred March 17. Mrs. Widtsoe is visiting the branches of the Relief Society as time permits, and is enthusiastic in her reports of the excellent work of the Relief Societies of Europe. European Mission ?London District. The 86th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was commemorated in the London District, March 18th. Relief Society meetings were held in the South London and Holloway branches, while the St. Albans and Watford Societies -held their meetings conjointly in the Watford branch hall. The evening was well spent and a goodly number were in attendance at all of the meetings. A suitable and well arranged program was ably carried out. Some of the subjects of the discourses delivered were: "The organization of the Relief Society, Work Accomplished, 'System of Work, Courses of Study for 1927 and for 1928." Special mention was made of the "Relief Society Efficiency Chart," instituted during the month of February, which has stimulated much interest in the several societies and from the summed up totals, an average check rates a high record of efficiency. Special mention should be made also of the fact that about 65% of those attending meetings regularly had read 10 pages of the Book of Mormon each week during the month of February. Reports were given of the good work that has been done in the past year?especially the charitable assistance rendered NOTES FROM THE FIELD 439 during the Winter season. Strong and convincing testimonies were borne by the sisters, each testifying of the joy that has come through administering to the wants of the suffering and those who are in need. Special musical numbers were given, and at the close of the meetings each went his way rejoicing to {know what a marvelous work and a wonder is being done by the faithful sisters of the Relief Society. Due to the great distance of travel, it is impossible for the women of this district to make regular monthly visits, but in most cases each of the members is visited monthly. Australian Mission. Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of the Relief Societies of the Australian mission, writes in part as follows: "I have just returned from a trip around the districts of the mission, visiting all the Relief Society organizations, covering nearly 8,000 miles in the journey. During the early months of each year, conferences are held throughout the mission, which gives me the opportunity of visiting among the sisters and assisting them so far as I am able in their work in the Relief Societies. All of them are taking up the theological studies and are caring for the needy. JI found the sisters who are presiding in the organizations enjoying a good spirit, anxious to keep pace with the work and willing to accept suggestions. I was able to introduce in one or two of our organizations the child welfare work, and we have sent for the books necessary to carry on this work. I believe this study will soon be general throughout the mission. I was very much gratified with the general condition of the Societies and grateful for the opportunity of doing my bit toward their advancement." Northern States Mission. With the release of Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, Mrs. Allie Y. Pond, wife of President Noah F. Pond, was appointed to preside over the (Relief Societies of the mission. Mrs. Taylor has left the organizations in excellent condition, and the work is going forward in an efficient manner under the new president. Utah Stake. On June 2, 1928, the Utah Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Electa S. Dixon was honorably released as president. And Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman was appointed to succeed her. Among other things, Mrs. Dixon has accomplished some outstanding health work, which will stand as a monument to her administration. It was by good cooperative work of Mrs. Dixon and the other Utah County Relief Society presidents, and the State Board of Health, that a county health unit was established 440 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in Utah county. Mrs. Paxman has for the last two sessions been a member of the Utah State Legislature, sitting in the House of Representatives. Yellowstone Stake. The Yellowstone stake Relief Society was reorganized on June 10, 1928. Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd resigned as president on account of change of residence, and was honorably released, with appreciation for her excellent and faithful service. Mrs. Ellen J. Murri was appointed president, with Mrs. Mary A. White and Mrs. Adrena W. Young as counselors, and Mrs. Elva Orme as secretary-treasurer. Fremont Stake. On June 17, the Fremont Stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Marie M. Merrill, who has moved from the stake, was honorably released, and Mrs. IM. May Grover was appointed to succeed her. Mrs. Grover's counselors are Mrs. Artemesia Romney and Mrs. Nora Davis, and her secretary treasurer, Mrs. Jessie Atkinson. Mrs. Grover has served as secretary under Mrs. Merrill and is familiar with the good work done by Mrs. Merrill and her assistants, and with their plans for the future of the stake. Eastern States Mission. The Relief Society of the New York branch held a concert on March 22nd in the Chamber Music Room of Carnegie Hall in honor of the anniversary of the organization. The artists for the occasion were John Parish, tenor, and Samuel Harwell, pianist ?both former residents of Salt Lake City. An informal reception followed the concert. The officers of the New York Relief Society are Mrs. Marian C. Bennion, president; Miss Lorena C. Fletcher and Mrs. Jennie C. Stoddard, counselors; and Mrs. Donnette K. McAllister, secretary-treasurer. The guests of honor on this occasion were: President and Mrs. Henry H. Rolapp, Miss Lola Bradford, president of the Relief Societies of the Eastern States mission, Mrs. Lydia Newcomb, president Brooklyn Relief Society, Mrs. Cora Ameling, president Newark Relief Society and Mrs. Minnie Lange, president Hoboken Relief Society. The patrons included a large group of Utah people now residents of New York City. A neat program was arranged for the event. Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) PROJECTS CONCLUDED I. The Adjustability of Projects. Gospel aims are eternal. The joy of man is the aim of his existence. It is a divine purpose, an everlasting objective in the mind of the Eternal. The Book of Mormon declares the existence of man to be joy (II Nephi 2:25) and Jesus set forth the same truth when he said, "I am that ye might have life and and that ye might have it more abundantly." (John 10:10). The word "joy" is the shortest and most comprehensive symbol of the abundant life. Joy is a kind of happiness of which it may be said, "once happy, always happy." It is enjoyment, the anticipation of which is happiness, the presence of which is happiness and the memory of which is happiness. All purposes pointing toward; and all projects pushing along lines not parallel with the great gospel aim, lead away from the abundant life; and the farther one goes on one of these tangent lines, the more abject the poverty of life. Projects for lowering standards are always bad. The projects for reaching the ever-present and truth-anchored aim, the abundant life, have been expanded, modified, and changed to meet conditions. Note the growth and adjustability of the great missionary project?one in purpose but many in its means and methods?once a few men without purse or scrip, now men and women, thousands of them, carrying the message of life, spiritual life, moral life, intellectual life, and physical life, in rich abundance. Once limited to holding conversation by the wayside as did Jesus at the well, (John 6) now speaking to millions over the radio, as did the Father over his radio to the Nephites when he introduced to them the resurrected Redeemer. (III Nephi 11.) Once the missionaries walked the dusty road as did the apostles with Jesus; now we hear of them outspeeding the wind above the clouds to fill a missionary appointment. Gospel projects are the machinery of salvation and must be adjustable to the people and to their conditions. They are the roadway to reach the top of the mountain of joy and must curve and wind to make a grade suited to the climber's capacity. The onwardness of a project may include temporary halts
442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
as well as the making of detours. The line of march which Jehovah marked out for ancient Israel under the leadership of Moses is vividly illustrative of the necessity of project adjustability. Forty years they were getting from Egypt to Jericho, a distance which a camel can walk in a few days.
II. The Fruits of Projects. This is not only a great listening age, but an age of looking as well. We still go to the heart-beat for information, but we use the X-rays also. The telephone communication is not enough, we want television. The project of producing Christian character must result in meeting the condition of the hour when the thinking world is more interested in the fruits than in the roots of the tree life, when doing is of more importance than doctrine. And this condition is in perfect keeping with the leadership of him who said, "by their fruits ye shall know them." When this dispensation sign of salvation was first put up, the world threw rocks at it and smeared it with mud; its showcase was empty. Now at the close of its first century of existence, its windows blaze with diamonds. They are lent to the world, and glisten from high places in government, in education, in the professions and industries; they sparkle on the belt of middle class leadership; so that far and wide when one asks, "What good comes from 'Mormonism'?" the answer is read, "Look and see!" Judged by the samples sent out, the Christian character making power of this gospel dispensation, is indeed a "marvel and a wonder." These samples are not the product of any one project of the dispensation, but rather the output of many projects: home projects, Priesthood projects, Relief Society projects, Sunday School projects, Church School projects, Mutual Improvement projects, Primary projects, and Genealogical projects; each with its specific purposes and all with a common interest and a universal aim; each in competition with itself and in cooperation with all the others. The high aims, the superior operative characteristics of its organization, and the effectiveness of its projects, are indisputable evidence that Latter-day Saint Church building is character building; it is Christian character building, for it is a kingdom building, that of this world, but not of this world alone.
III. The Home Beautiful Project. In the production of character, three great forces are constantly operative: example, instruction, and environment, and of the environment the home is fundamental. In the order of progress, we have the home protective, then
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 443
the home plentiful, then the home comfortable, then the home beautiful. The scenic beauty of our Zion's center of population has put the homes of the Saints in the show case of the world, as the endless procession of tourists pass along our highways; Zion is known by her buildings and their surroundings. It must not be forgotten that paint spells prosperity, and that well-kept yards smile and tell of culture. The home beautiful is an essential part of the Zion building. We sing, "Let Zion in her beauty rise," but the home beautifier says, "See Zion in her beauty rise." The home beautiful is called for by the example of the Church in its temple buildings and the temple grounds. Each of the houses of the Lord has its individual architecture and its fitting surrounding, but they are all alike in being beautiful. The influence of example is added to by instruction; and these two, reinforced by project activity, reach objective with the greatest speed. Industrial interests have projects for home-building; commercial interests have projects for home conveniences, comforts, and luxuries; and these projects are pushed to the limit of safety. And some efforts are being made in the line of education in the direction of having beautiful homes in beautiful settings?that our Zion may be a fitting symbol of the bride, not only in its character but in its apparel also. Every L. D. S. Home is a part of the attire of the Church.
Questions and Problems
1. Why must aims be fixed?
2. Why must projects be adjustable?
3. Wherein is joy more than happiness?
4. Discuss the demand of the world to see results rather than to listen to gospel doctrine?
5. What are the indisputable proofs that Latter-day Saint Church building is a form of superior Christian character-building?
6. Speak five minutes on the topic, "It pays to paint."
7. How do Latter-day Saint temples and temple grounds point to the truth that beautification is an essential part of Zion-building?
8. In what respect is every Latter-day Saint home a part of the attire of the Church?
9. Discuss (a) The need of a home beautiful project in the Church; (b) The organization best adapted to put such a project on foot and put it over.
444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in October)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER?THE HOME
The Home as a Social Center
"I do not believe that this nation has ever produced in its history a finer type of youth than the present generation, but I am convinced that society, the home, and the school are not measuring up to the responsibilities which rightfully belong to them."?Judge Fred R. Morgan of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City.
I. Among the family group. A. Agreeable conversation. B. Music. C. Games. D. Well planned social periods. E. Proper use of meal times as social periods. F. Special programs.
II. For association with friends. A. The home a place for friendships and mutual visits. B. Encourage children to entertain friends at home. C. Group parties. Facilities for entertaining. Interest in the group. Hospitality. Suggestive programs for entertaining groups of different ages, delightful and in keeping with L. D. S. Ideals.
"Make the home the most dignified, attractive, and charming place to be found. The place to rush to, rather than to rush from?a place of arrival rather than a place of departure. A place fulfilling every noble desire."?Elder Stephen L. Richards.
Robert Colley Angell, in the March number of the Forum, just off the press, in an article entitled, "Roots of College Evils," has this to say on this subject:
"Nowadays, the parents, distracted by other duties and absorbed in their own pleasures, turn the larger share of the task of education over to the schools; while the children do not find the learning process adventurous enough to compete with the more colorful pursuits at hand. * * * A quiet evening in the family circle, talking, reading, or playing games, is a rare exception in modern American life. Parents as well as children find their amusement elsewhere after the evening meal."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 445
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in October)
BERTHA A. KLEINMAN
Bertha A. Kleinman was born in a part of Salt Lake City familiar to many of our readers. It was in the region of the 18th ward, taking in the hills that in her childhood were carpeted with wild flowers and that followed the trail of City Creek to the old mill?a place regarded with awe and delight by the children who listened to the whirr of the big wheel and saw the crystal waters of City Creek splash over it. The details of this sketch have been furnished by Mrs. Kleinman's mother. We follow these details rather closely; but before making use of the biographical material, we wish to pay tribute to Mrs. Kleinman for the recognition she has received in various magazines of the country. She is certainly one of the best known poets of this intermountain region, one of whom we are sure the State of Arizona is justly proud, for her poems have been published in Harper's Bazar, The Ladies' Home Journal, Little Folks, Out West, Pacific Coast Musician, Our Dumb Animals, The Classmate, The Quarterly Review, Child's Garden, The Boy's Comrade, The Young American, The National Conservation Bulletin; recently eight were accepted for the new Latter-day Saints' Hymnology. Her mother writes: "She was born October 1, 1877, on the brow of the hill overlooking City Creek Canyon. Her favorite haunts were the canyon and hills about. Her father, James Anderson, was of Danish descent, one of Utah's pioneers, who emigrated to Utah as a young man, walking the entire distance across the plains. Her mother, Eliza Clissold Anderson, emigrated with her parents from Birmingham, England, as a little girl of twelve." In the name of our poet, Bertha Eliza, we recognize her mother's name; yet that same mother assures us that the thought in naming her was not only that she should retain her mother's name, but that she should be called after Eliza Roxey Snow, the distinguished writer of Latter-day Saint hymns. Whether there is anything in a name or not is perhaps a matter of conjecture; however that may be, it would seem that the spirit of Eliza R. Snow has been with Mrs. Kleinman; for, like her famed predecessor, she has written many songs and is now the author of a group of Latter-day Saint hymns. She tells us that Apostle Orson F. Whitney, himself a poet and her bishop when she lived in Salt Lake, has been a great inspiration to her and that John Nicholsen, a neighbor, who discovered her
446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
talent for verse writing at a very early age, did much to encourage her. Her first poem was published in one of the earliest numbers of the Young Woman's Journal when Susa Young Gates was its editor. Bertha was then only twelve years of age. Mrs. Gates wrote her a letter, explaining somewhat the technique of metrical composition. "After thirty-five years," says Mrs. Kleinman's mother, "I find it still preserved in her scrapbook. She says it has been of more value to her than all the treatises on Rhetoric, or the lexicons of synonyms and rhymes that are the guides of students today." "She first went to school in the old adobe school house just within the Eagle Gate?the school house erected by President Young for his own children. Here she wrote her first poem upon her slate; this was a eulogy of her fellow students, and it received favorable comment from her teachers, Dr. Ada B. Faust and Gideon M. Mumford, who did much to encourage her childish efforts." To follow her mother's narrative: "At the age of thirteen she graduated from the 18th ward L. D. S. Seminary and was chosen class poet and Valedictorian. At the age of eighteen she graduated from the L. D. S. College, having received her Certificate in Kindergarten training from the Brigham Young University of Provo. For two years she taught under the Utah Kindergarten Association, then again entered the L. D. S. College for a course in Business Training, taking a position in the Presiding Bishop's Office at the end of a few months. She was the first girl to enter the employ of the Presiding Bishopric and retained her position for seven years, at which time she married." The union was with Orson C. Kleinman, a member of a well known Arizona family and an employee of the Utah Idaho Sugar Company. Elder Kleinman had but recently returned from a mission to Germany. His main business interests as a cattle man, were in Arizona; so they sold their home in Salt Lake and moved to Mesa, where they have since resided. Undoubtedly Mrs. Kleinman has been a very real asset to the community in which she has lived these many years. She is now the mother of four stalwart sons and two lovely daughters, who have been the chief source of her inspiration through the busy years of home-building and community service. Her tribute to them she has often expressed in the words, "I have everything to do to live up to my children." "Always an ardent worker in the auxiliary organizations, Mrs. Kleinman has taught in every department of the Sunday School, being an officer of both ward and Stake before her marriage, in the 18th, 10th and 33rd wards. For three years she was Kindergarten Supervisor of the Sunday Schools of
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 447
Liberty Stake, was also first counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. to President Lotta Paul Baxter, for whom she formed a lifelong friendship. In the Emerson ward she was a Primary executive for two years. During her residence in Mesa, she has taught in the Relief Society and Primary, and for two years has been an executive in the Stake Primary. She has served seven years on the Y. L. M. I. A. Stake Board, and is now first counselor to President Lisana Brimhall in its Presidency. "In a civic way, she has always been active, being Publicity chairman of the Musician's Club for three years, and chairman of the Legislative and Applied Education Departments of the Woman's Club of Mesa for the past three years. During that time she has also been Secretary of the Mesa Commercial Club, stenographer of the Mesa Rotary Club, and Librarian of the Mesa City Library?positions which she recently resigned when appointed as Assistant Recorder of the Arizona Temple. Her work has been addressed to all walks of life. She is never too hurried to pen her contribution?her toast, her measure of consolation?and no one, from the tiniest child or the humblest supplicant, has ever been refused her tribute. In sorrow, in illness and distress, as likewise in joy and congratulation, her word of cheer has found its way into the homes of hundreds. She has a touching fondness for the aged, and some of her best work has been written in eulogy and admiration for them. Her files contain letters of appreciation from senators, legislators, governors of states, ministers, from Mrs. Warren G. Harding, Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, Carrie Jacobs Bond, and numerous editors and commentators." Any knowledge of Bertha A. Kleinman's poems will reveal the fact that she is a versatile writer. Two of her poems that we print here were undoubtedly inspired by her own children. A poem that she calls one of her favorites is entitled "The Kingdom" and is a tribute to her own boys and girls. Another, entitled "Your Boy," was very likely written to her own husband, but is applicable, of course, to all fathers. We shall here include "The Kingdom" and follow with "Your Boy."
THE KINGDOM
If I would fathom the miracle Of God's magnanimity, I need but serve at the oracle Where my little child trusts in me;
If I would reason his Providence, With logic pro and con, I need but treasure the confidence, My children build upon.
448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
If I would travel the Holy-land, I need not travel far, For the Kingdom borders near at hand, Where the feet of the children are;
If I would merge my trust supreme, In the might of His diagram, I need but soar on my children's dream, And be what they think I am.
Your Boy
There isn't a boy in the world?not one? But longs to be big like you, Who thrills at the sound when you call him "Son" And copies the things you do,
Whose shoulders, braced to the world's demand, Are squared and broad and strong; As yours are squared when you take his hand And lead that boy along.
There isn't a boy on the wide-flung map But longs for your manly pace, Who chafes at the years and the long-grown gap Till he stands with you face to face,
A kingly giant in miniature, Evolving might on might? A god to be, just as true and sure As you lead that boy aright!
Mrs. Kleinman has written many tributes to friends, a splendid example of this style of writing and one that will, we are sure, tend to give comfort to women in general, is a tribute to Ellen E. Tiffany, which follows:
A TRIBUTE TO OUR BELOVED SISTER, ELLEN E. TIFFANY
There's so much we loved about her?constancy and zeal throughout her, Oh, so much that made us glad to call her friend! Yet we knew it too about her that a day could dawn without her, And how little it would count to tell it then.
There were days when she was worried, when we passed by all too hurried, Knowing well the grind and stress of every day; Days when she was tired, tested, and her right to joy molested, Yet we passed in careless greeting on our way.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 449
Well and fit?she never wavered to request or sue for favor, That perhaps would be so easy to bestow, When we knew no other neighbor has a conscience that was braver, Yet we chanced some other day to let her know.
In the needs of every hour, with her faith and love and power, She has carved her monumentals deeply, daily, on and on; We have learned to know her tether by her splendid, staunch endeavor, How slow we were to pass her praise along.
Oh, why is it hard to tell it, when we have such words to spell it? Things she richly earned and needed us to say? Why should scenes like this approach us, wring our heartstrings and reproach us, For the flow'rs we failed to strew along her way!
Lowly toil?she knew its meaning, days of hers were filled and teeming, Yet with smiles she met each handicap and care, Yes, she smiled when days were dreary?others gloomy?she was cheery, And we're going to miss her good smile everywhere.
In the days that dawn without her, you who loved and clung about her, May her sunshine linger ever at your side; And though God has seemed to smite you, He will heal and bless and guide you, In her footsteps where her star is sanctified!
Mrs. Kleinman appreciated Art. Her poem, "In Things of Art," will, we feel, substantiate this statement.
IN THINGS OF ART
I builded an epic, line on line, Of stately diction and chaste design, Each canto girt with metric song, But all in all my theme was wrong? My ode from art was fugitive? I left Love out and it will not live.
I fashioned a tale of lustrous deed, And sent it forth for the world to read, With gibe and satire unafraid, With quirp and quirk to lend it aid? I placed my treatise on revue, But Love?not there?my book died, too.
450 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I thrilled a song on an ether length, And sent it forth in its pristine strength, Attuned to rote of staff and score, A brilliant cleft of sounds?no more? I left Love out and my song rebounds, An argosy of empty sounds.
And so I fail in things of art, Who spurn the dictum of the heart, My soul with Love must teem and burn, My soul for yours must writhe and yearn, For the force of maul and the fire of pen Is Love, much Love for my fellow men!
We are told that Mrs. Kleinman has always been deeply interested in civic life. In her poem, "The Beautiful City," she certainly expresses a wholesome attitude toward the community where she lives. In every city there are critics who would make one feel that everything is wrong in that particular city in which they live. Mrs. Kleinman's attitude is wholesome, fresh and full of faith.
THE BEAUTIFUL CITY
What matter the lure and the calling Of places I never shall see? Wherever the sunlight is falling The Beautiful City may be.
What matter the strands that are sainted, With laurel and temple and shrine, Wherever my vision is painted Is the Beautiful City of mine.
What matter the song and the story, What matter the star in the East, The rays on my home-land are glory, And make it the City of Peace.
What matter the shores that are holy While Truth is resplendent and free, My own?be it ever so lowly, Is THE BEAUTIFUL CITY TO ME.
She loves trees, and "My Trees" is an evidence of this fact.
MY TREES
Trees seem like people, fine and tall, And shedding down their good? I never think of trees at all Like common logs of wood;
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 451
For trees have limbs and climb and grow, And trees can PINE and gasp, And trees get scared when tempests blow And shake like QUAKING Asp.
Some trees are grand?like mighty Oaks And grown themselves for use, And some are POPULAR, same as folks, And some are trim and SPRUCE.
Trees seem like mothers when they hide The birds and nests so high, And tuck the soft leaves all outside And rock them when they cry.
Trees build my home so snug and fine, And furnish it complete? They keep me cool in summer time, In winter give me heat.
The lovely fruit, the maple sap, The nuts that fall for me? There's scarce a thing that's worth a rap That wasn't born a tree.
Lost in the woods, so damp and raw, And wandering in the storm, I'd hunt an ELDER like my pa And FIRS to keep me warm.
And so I never think at all That trees are logs of wood, But just like people fine and tall And shedding down their good.
In the sketch furnished by her mother, she tells us that she is very fond of aged people and has written many poems devoted to them. "The Faith of My Fathers" is a very good example of this interest.
THE FAITH OF MY FATHERS
I sit at the feet of the old, old folk, The bent and the halt and the grey, And I string the pearls from the good lips spoke, For a learned folk are they.
I fondle the hands of the old, old folk, And a courage new is born, For theirs is the strength of the tempered oak, In the fingers gnarled and worn.
452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I welcome the smile of the old, old folk, The wrinkled and comely cheer, And proud am I when I invoke The praise of an old compeer.
I look in the eyes of the old, old folk, In the windows dulled and dim, Where vision lightens with master-stroke The sight that is turned to Him.
I follow the wake of the old, old folk, And reap the goodly seed, Over fruited trail that their feet have broke, Where the steps of the fathers lead.
I stand for the faith of the old, old folk, The light of the world to be, I stand for the standards their lives invoke, For their faith is the faith for me!
There is a spirit of reverence and devotion to God in all that she writes. Her poem entitled "Joy" tends to impart joy and no one, we feel, can read it in the spirit in which it is written, without having his or her joy increased.
JOY
The reason for all that lives and dies, For all that moves and feels and breathes, The meaning of earth and of Paradise? Is Joy, the Joy that Truth bequeathes!
The depths, the heights of a soul subdued, The end, the all, the blessedness, The fullness of each Beatitude, Is lo! The promise of happiness.
The rite and rote of philosophy, The ultimo of text and song, Religion's troth to man must be A thing of joy or its theme is wrong.
An angel fell, nay, a God came down To turn the key of mortality, That faith should bide and joy encrown To the furthermost posterity.
And the stars that swung to their glad employ When the earth was new and life was youth, The "Stars of the Dawn" that sang for Joy, Are singing yet at the feet of Truth.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 453
The themes which Mrs. Kleinman makes use of have their roots in the every-day lives of men, women and children, and for that very reason they will make a broad appeal. It is of the people with whom she mingles daily and the people who pass her door that she writes, and from this class she is bound to receive heartfelt thanks and blessings. There are few of our writers who have contributed so consistently and constantly to all of the Church publications for so many years as Bertha Anderson Kleinman. Her mother assures us that it is from the Church publications she has received her best encouragement and for them her best efforts are always reserved. "Her first book was copyrighted and published when she was twenty years of age and represented about one hundred of her maiden-day poems. She has on hand at the present time material for several books and contemplates their production in serial volumes under the titles of 'Friends Like You,' 'Babes Like You,' 'Mothers Like You,' 'Boys Like You,' 'Girls Like You.'" "Asked to name her own favorite poems, Bertha always remarks, 'If it fits the needs of someone, it is my favorite.'"
GRACE INGLES FROST
The sketch of Miss Grace Ingles Frost which we are presenting to our readers was written by her friend Maude Ellen Baggerley, also a poet whose own singing was hushed in death sometime ago. We feel sure that our readers will appreciate this sketch from one intimate with Miss Frost. Grace Ingles Frost, daughter of John Franklin and Elizabeth Grace Mackintosh Frost, was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 24, 1874. Owing to the fact that she very early gave evidence of being an extremely sensitive, nervous child, she was not permitted to enter school until her tenth year. Previous to that time, she received instruction at home; chiefly in the use of the needle. From her mother and grandmother, who were both skillful needle-women, she seems to have inherited an adaptability for such work. At all events, even in her extreme youth, she proved to be a very apt pupil. By her Scotch grandmother, she had been taught very rigidly by the time she reached her seventh year, that "anything worth doing, is worth doing well." A stitch that was not considered perfect, or very nearly so, was never allowed to remain in the child's work. While she sewed her fine seams, she was taught to repeat,
454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Whatever you do, Do with your might, For things done by half, Are never done right."
The result of this early discipline is that Grace Ingles Frost has become an expert with the needle. Even her plain sewing is poetry. She has been awarded cash prizes and diplomas for every piece of work that she has exhibited in Salt Lake City and elsewhere. Ever generous with her gifts, she has taught many women to make exquisite laces and embroidery, besides those attending her regular classes; and she has tutored (gratis) numerous students who have been backward in English; thus enabling them to receive coveted degrees. Grace Ingles Frost's formal education was received in Salt Lake City, from Miss Lyde Wells (who conducted a private school); the Collegiate Institute, and our L. D. S. Institutions of learning. She has also taken special work in English at various times, in later years: and has become deeply versed in Theology, which amounts to almost a passion with her. After leaving school Miss Frost became interested in millinery work. For a number of years, she designed and made hats for persons of fastidious fancy in such matters of apparel. Later, she took a course in nursing, passed a perfect examination, and during the years she has practiced has done splendid work. Her grandmother's precepts are too deeply ingrained in her being to permit her to neglect even those things which might seem to another to be trifling details. She believes that seeming trifles are stepping-stones to perfection. In 1908, she was offered the position of Instructor of English Composition and Domestic Arts in a Church High School in Southern Utah. She was forced to refuse this offer, however, because of not being in robust health, and also because its acceptance would necessitate her resignation from other Church duties, in which she was deeply interested. Grace Ingles Frost has been associated with almost every phase of woman's work, in the Church. She became a teacher in Sunday School at an early age and served in that capacity for many years. She has served as instructor in Advanced Religion Class work, as chorister and instructor in the Primary Association, as president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in Waterloo Ward, Granite Stake, and as aide on the Granite Stake Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. In the latter position, she acted as instructor of Theology at the Stake House. Illness or weather or both combined never prevented her from being at her post, nor from being perfectly prepared.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 455
Order and perfection, or at least something very nearly approaching the latter, characterize her work. She always gives her best and gives lavishly. At one time, Miss Frost possessed a beautiful singing voice. She was a member of the Salt Lake Tabernacle and ward choirs, and was also heard in concert work. A severe illness deprived her of the gift of song, but music still lives on in her soul, and she strives to express it, if only in words. Many years, that should have been the best in her life, have been spent as an invalid. Few people have endured the excruciating agony that has been her portion, and few people have won the steadfast friends, who have been ever ready to serve her in her terrible periods of illness. Being deeply religious, the storms of life have apparently never caused her to envy the more fortunate ones about her, however cruelly those storms may have bruised her. In 1910, Miss Frost received a letter from Richard Badger of the Gorham Press, Boston, Mass., stating that he had read a number of her poems in the Young Woman's Journal and that he would like to publish a volume of her verse. To this proposition, Miss Frost replied in the negative. She thanked Mr. Badger for his interest, but assured him that she was not then ready to have a book published. She felt that her work was not sufficiently important to warrant its publication in book form at that time. Miss Frost was quite young when she first began to write prose, but she never submitted any of her work for publication until she attained to her twenty-eighth year. It was due to the suggestion of her cousin, Mahonri Young, the now internationally known sculptor and painter, that she began to express herself in verse. One day, while Mr. Young was visiting at Miss Frost's home, a copy of an Oregon publication, to which she was contributing a series of articles on Utah's natural scenic beauty, was received by her. The paper contained a sketch from her pen entitled, "Brighton by Moonlight." After reading the description, Mr. Young asked Miss Frost why she had never written verse. He said, "Grace, almost everything that you write is poetical prose. All this lacks to make it poetry, is meter. Try verse writing next time." Several days later, four manuscripts were handed to me to read. The suggestion given by Miss Frost's cousin fanned into flame the embers of a desire that had been hers since childhood. She told me later how she prayed that she might be able to write verse and that her prayer had been answered. All she needed was the stimulus that she had received that day.
456 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I persuaded Miss Frost to submit her verses for publication and all were accepted. Since that time, she has, now and then, written a prose article or a short story, but verse is her chosen medium for expression, and through that medium her best work has been done. In all, Grace Ingles Frost is the author of several hundred poems, numerous prose articles, and a number of short stories. Her work has been published chiefly in Utah, but also in Oregon and in Oklahoma. She has been urged, frequently, to send her verses to more distant fields. Her reply has been?"I prefer to be known by my own people and to give them my best work." It is often asserted that women who incline to literary work are not domesticated. This cannot be truthfully said of Miss Frost. She is an immaculate housekeeper and an excellent cook. Among other things, she has shown considerable ability as an amateur painter of exquisite water colors; and she has designed, printed and bound two books by hand. She possesses a wonderful color-sense, which is shown in many of her verses. Her great love for children has inspired much of her work. Her nature poems testify to her fondness for nature and all that is beautiful. Grace Ingles Frost's chief characteristics are loyalty, uncompromising, outspoken candor, (an excellent thing for making enemies); a Christ-like sympathy for the oppressed and weak of the earth, and an overwhelming desire to do with her might everything that her hands find to do. Many a young girl's feet would have strayed had Grace Ingles Frost not set them in the path of right, even though she has, at times, received cold scorn from some self-righteous Levite. Her motto has ever been, "Do right and fear no man." Miss Frost has been a contributor to practically all of the Church magazines, her very early poems appearing in the Young Woman's Journal and in the Juvenile Instructor. Readers of the Tribune and undoubtedly of the Deseret News have come in contact with her writings. She tells us that her ability to write verse has been the means of casting much sunshine 'over an otherwise sorrowful life.' One of these gladdening experiences happened during the present year. The Adams Ward Relief Society, Los Angeles Stake, has asked that a chair with a metal plate bearing Miss Frost's name be placed in its new auditorium. She writes "you may be sure that their appreciation (meaning her sisters who have shown her this honor) of my literary efforts has made me desire more earnestly to produce work which might merit such a kindly tribute GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 457 The wonderful letters of appreciation received from this society have caused me to wonder how my verses could possibly inspire such words." During the past year Miss Frost has been invited to join the International League of Writers. She adds, "I did not accept the invitation because writing is my pleasure and not my profession." Miss Frost has a very deep-seated love for nature and writes some of her most beautiful lines when contemplating and reveling in the beauties of nature. As an example of this we include: APPLE BLOSSOMS Dainty, modestly blushing things, Fragile as the gossamer wings Of the small creatures clothed i in cloth of gold; That flit from flow'r to flow'r and dip Down to the heart of you to sip The nectar hidden there for ages old. Dainty, modestly blushing things, From out your midst the wild bird flings A flood of. Lilting notes upon the wind, To bind them in a sheaf of song That makes me glad the whole day long, Down 'neath the bowers of bloom you've intertwined. Dainty, modestly blushing things, The breeze with gentle mischief brings You pattering down, a fragrant shower, That lulls my senses, aye, and soothes My restive spirit 'til it woos Me into oneness with the Divine Power. Dainty, modestly blushing things, Within my soul a pean rings, For busy bees ahum and boughs abloom, And for the blithesome notes that float From the treasure of the feathered throat, Which leave in mind, for meagre thoughts, no room. A poem she calls "Living" begpeaks the same sincere love of nature. LIVING Hoary headed peaks ablaze with glory, And winter's keen caress upon each cheek; The rhythmic, crispy sound of crunching snowflakes That white and glistening lie beneath our feet, 458 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The pearly sails of graceful, speeding cloudships That hold a glad regatta in the sky, The green-black firs aglint with frosty fringes That gleam like diamond-drops and you and I Filled with a bouyant, new found joy of living, And after eventide, an azure night Bright with the starry lamps that shine in heaven, And the deep, white silence from a moonlit sky, Oh! This is living, living, living! And you, thank God, are. You and I am I. One of Grace Ingles Front's outstanding characteristics is her love of children. In her poem "Answered" she discovers much of the wonder and glory of God's handiwork in the face of a little child. ANSWERED I longed to penetrate the depths of space, To see beyond the blue of sapphire skies, To look upon the glory of God's face, To view and learn of mighty mysteries. Nor cup of disappointment did I quaff; One day my yearning arms held close a babe, And in its eyes, from its sweet, gurgling laugh, I saw and learned those things my soul had craved. Her love for children is again revealed in the poem, WHEN THE WIND SANG ITS BABE TO SLEEP (First published in "The Young Woman's Journal") The wind sang its babes to sleep last night, With a sweet, low croon, with a sweet, low croon, Rocking them high in a tree near by, Tucked into beds of apple bloom. The stars came blinking out from the blue, And the moon peeped from over the hill, And for each wee hand in its trundle bed, There was left on the window sill, A bundle held by a sheath of light, That the tiny moonbeams had spun From their own gleams into wondrous dreams, For a gift to each little one. While the moon sang its babes to sleep last night. With a sweet, low croon, with a sweet, low croon. Rocking them high in a tree near by, Tucked into beds of apple bloom. GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 459 DEARIE HEART (A Lullaby) (Published in the "Juvenile Instructor') Do you hear, Dearie Heart, tween the dusk and the dark, The wind croon a lullaby song, And the leaves on the trees, as they nod to the breeze, Waft the wonderful music along? Can you see from the blue, starshine beckon to you, And moonbeams to guide your wee feet, From the playtime and noise of your romping and toys, To the quiet of Milky Way Street? Ah! Then harken, oh, hark 'tween the dusk and the dark, 'Till the lullaby song seals your eyes, And soon you will be far, far out on the sea That leads you where Dreamy Land lies. It is not an uncommon thing for poets to feel as Tennyson felt, that words "half reveal and half conceal the thoughts within." The poem "Unuttered Songs" are in line with this idea. UNUTTERED SONGS Those songs the vice cannot find notes to utter, Do they not fall back into heart of man, Like unshed tears that are too great to pass The conduit of the outward being through? Shall they not echo and reecho in the soul, Until this sphere of limitation's past? And then in music they have made their own, Break forth in a magnificent at last? Methinks the songs that yet remain unuttered, Awaiting for fortuity to voice, Are those to which but higher mind can hearken, So fraught are they with words and music choice. No one can read a sketch of Grace Ingles Frost's life and not be impressed by her versality. The art instinct is so much a part of her whole being that it has found expression in needlework, painting, music, and in poetry. She is indeed one of very exceptional gifts. All of her poems have in them a deeply religious strain. "My Mother's Ring," published in the May issue of the Magazine, carries with it a deep-seated faith in the immortality of the soul. We quote the last stanza: 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Oh! Since she has awakened Within the Better Land, Can it be she has longed to feel This circlet on her hand? Or does she wear another, The counterpart of this, Yet of a rarer beauty, There is in her home of bliss? This much, I know+-my Mother's ring (Worn on my hand today). Seems to keep her near me, Though she has passed away; And well I know 'twill keep my feet From treading devious ways; For Mother's ring is shining With a gleam from her life's rays. Questions and Problems -Bertha A. Kleinman. 1. Name a group of magazines outside of Church periodicals in which Mrs. Kleinman's poems have been published. 2. Prove from her poems that she is interested in the neighbors about her. 3. Quote some lines from one of her poems to show that old people appeal to her. 4. Prove from her writings that she is interested in civic projects. Grace Ingles Frost. "1. Select some lines that you regard as particularly beautiful, carrying a message of the poet's love for nature. 2. Quote some lines that indicate that she is particularly 3. Prove from the material presented in the biographical sketch that Miss Frost is a woman of very versatile talents. 4. Give evidence from her poetry that she has faith in and love for God. Devoted to children.: GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 461 LESSSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE How THE CHILD LEARNS TO Express HIMSELF IN LANGUAGE, Music, Etc. (Based on Chapter VII: The Child: His Nature and His Needs.) The reader will recall that in the six preceding lessons we have been considering the various phases of child nature and attempting to separate the "wheat from the chaff" in regard to child psychology. It will be recalled, specifically, that we discussed the more important inborn tendencies in childhood and their need for proper guidance by the parent. Then we consider the child's active nature and the need for wise direction of these energies rather than their suppression. Later we consider the child's moral and social development, noting the way in which the growing child learns to live successfully in a world of other persons. In the present chapter?the last in Part Il?we are to consider a somewhat different aspect of child nature. We are to think about the ways in which the normal child learns to express his ideas, his attitudes, and his emotions. Our expert this time is another national authority on the subject, Dr. E. A. Kirkpatrick, psychologist at the Massachusetts State Normal School, Fitchburg. A. The Laws of Learning in General. (Pages 132-139) Before taking up language and some of the other arts of expression, the author treats the reader to a rather lengthy discussion of the laws of learning in general (This section, pp. 132-139, by the way, can be omitted without much loss by those who do not care for such a bit of theoretical psychology. ) Memory, learning and motor skill, as the author points out by his numerous examples, are possible only because stimuli and responses, ideas and processes, become definitely connected. I. ?., associated with one another in the brain. Habits, good or bad, helpful, harmless or harmful, are developed by the mere process of strengthening the associations (or bonds) between these elements; i. E., by repetition under favorable conditions. It would seem appropriate here to call attention to another law of learning too often neglected in this age of speed; viz., in all forms of motor skill, accuracy should be striven for before speed. Specifically, in-the child's learning to speak, to write, to cipher, to draw, to play the piano, etc., certain standards of 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE accuracy should be insisted upon by the parents before speed is stressed. Such an emphasis by parents and teachers would do much to improve the low quality of handwriting, spelling, arithmetic, etc., common among American children. Questions 1, From your own experience, illustrate the laws of association referred to on page 132. 2. Why is it "very important that children should be given some means of seeing their own improvement in whatever they are learning?" How might a parent do this in the case of a child learning to speak, to play the piano, etc.? B. Learning Language. (Pages 140-148) Language behavior is extremely complicated. Learning a language constitutes the child's first great task. It challenges and measures not only his mental powers but the guidance skill of his parents and teachers. The most important phases of language behavior and the order in which they develop in the child-are: talking, reading, and writing. Because of the fact that speech disorders are so common (surveys show that 8 or 9 out of every 1,000 school children stutter, for example), it has been thought well to introduce a few pertinent quotations from two reliable authorities on the subject ?Blanton and Blanton, Child Guidance (Century Co., 1927), pp. 105-110* "Speech disorders may be classified from the descriptive standpoint as follows: (1) delayed speech, (2) oral inactivities, (3) letter-sound substitution, and (4) stuttering, which includes stammering. "Delayed speech. The normal child begins to use voluntary speech constantly when he is about fifteen months old. If it is delayed a year beyond this time, he should be examined by a physician who is familiar with nervous diseases. The five common causes for delayed speech are: (a) lack of mental development, (b) lack of necessity for speech (e. G., where the child has too much 'done for him), (c) continued illness with extreme malnutrition during infancy, (d) unhealthy emotional attitudes and (e) deafness. "Oral Inactivities. Oral inactivities consist of a slurring or indistinctness of speech, which may be due to some organic disease of the speech organs, to some emotional conflict, or to some difficulty in the learning process. *For a more complete discussion of this subject see Blanton and Blanton, Speech Training for Children (Century Co.). GUIDE LESSONS FOR OCTOBER 463 "Letter-sound substitution and omission. This is usually called lalling or lisping, and is a substitution of one sound for another, such as th for s, w for r, tsh for tr, and ? for k. * * The majority (of such cases) are caused by emotional conflicts. Many of them are due to a retention of infantile phonetic habits, and many of them are due to a retention of infantile emotional habits. The treatment consists of two parts: (a) emotional re-education, and (b) phonetic re-education. Yr ae "Stuttering, which includes stammering. Stuttering, under which we include stammering, may be described as a break in the rhythm of speech due to a blocking or inhibiting of the muscle co-ordinations. It must not be thought of as a disease, but: as a symptom of any of a number of underlying conditions. "We do not find any explanation of the cause of stuttering through examination of the bodily organs. Of course, such conditions as malnutrition, diseased tonsils, carious teeth, and nasal obstructions, may cause an increase in the natural irritability of the nervous system, but these conditions are not the cause of stuttering. A "A search of the 'emotional life of stuttering children always reveals some of these defects: timidity, strong feelings of inferiority, an over-dependence on the parents, and feeling of inadequacy. In some cases we notice a marked rigidity towards life, an unwillingness to change food and sleep habits, an over suggestibility, a chronic fear of meeting certain groups of people or situations, or a marked sensitiveness. Ee a ee "The treatment of stuttering fails under three headings: (a) physical hygiene, ((b) mental hygiene, by which we mean emotional re-education, and (c) relaxation and training in muscle co-ordination. "(a) The laws of physical hygiene are well known to parents, so we shall not dwell on this phase of the subject. "(b) In mental hygiene the fundamental thing is the changing of the general. Emotional reactions and the correcting of faulty attitudes which give rise to tension. The child must be trained to work successfully rather. Than to day-dream, and to get along well with other children. Some outlet must be found for his fundamental social and biological tendencies and the necessity for winning some success. "(c) Parents should absolutely ignore the child's speech defect as such. They should not ask him to repeat sentences, and should not seem distressed or irritated when he becomes blocked or inhibited. Even slight changes of expression on the face are noticed by the stuttering child. - "The use of phonetics or of vocal exercises, such as in- 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE flection, change of pitch, breathing, etc., is to be avoided. There is no difficulty in the child's speech mechanism. The difficulty is primarily psychological. Talking is to be encouraged, as are all. Situations of a social nature, because through them the child is really being trained to meet life." Since writing is an important form of expression, it seems important to call attention to certain dangers incident to its mastery: by the child. About ninety-five per cent of all human beings are born with a greater capacity for skill with the right hand than with the left. Of the remaining five percent, some are neutral (or ambidextrous), some are slightly left-handed, while others are extremely left-handed. Since handwriting is difficult for lefthanded children, many parents and teachers insist (sometimes unwisely) upon the left-handed child using his right hand. For example, left-handed children who at the outset start with their left hands and are later made to change to their right hands not infrequently develop stuttering, the reason being that since writing is a form of speech, and since the respective areas of control in the brain become definitely associated, any change of handedness for writing purposes naturally upsets this association with the results indicated. In every case of left-handedness, parents should decide at the outset, with the help of ithe teacher, which hand the child shall use for writing. If the child is neutral or only slightly left-handed it is generally safe to insist on the right hand. If the child is extremely left-handed, he should be allowed to use his left hand for writing. In no case should a child be made to change hands for writing, once the habit gets under way.* Questions 1. Observe the language behavior of your own children or those accessible to your observation. What laws of learning and language expression can you see illustrated? Do you know children or adults in your community with speech defects similar to those discussed above? Do such children get the special care and attention they need in school? If not, ask your Superintendent or Board or Education why it cannot be supplied.: 3. What are the new methods of teaching reading? How do they differ from the old? (If you do not know, consult any. Competent primary-grade teacher in your community.) 4, What is the policy in your local schools regarding lefthanded children and their hand-writing? If you are concerned and in doubt about it, talk to the principal or the teacher. ? *For further discussion of this subject see Beely, A. L., Aw Experimental Study of Left-handedness, University of Chicago Press, 1918. GOT A DATE TONIGHT? It's great?to have a date, with the right girl or the right man. If, some day, you plan to marry?the date is all the finer. But what about the bread and butter? What about the money? That's YOUR problem. Mr. Man. It won't solve itself. The money won't come, if you can't earn it. When you apply for a job, it helps a lot to be able to say: "Here's what I can do." Let us help you NOW ?-so you can say that when the time comes. Train at the L. D. S. Business College and Be Prepared Complete courses in BOOKKEEPING?COMPTOMETER? SHORTHAND?TYPEWRITING?SPEEDWRITING. L. D. S. Business College "UTAH'S GREATEST BUSINESS SCHOOL" ?-"PICKLING SEASON" It will soon be time for putting up pickles. It is every woman's ambition to put up better pickles than her neighbor, and almost every woman, some time in her life, has been induced to take 'something just as good' in the way of pickling spices and vinegar. As a result, she has lost her pickles. If you will use SCOWCROFT'S Blue PINE Group Mustard whole pickling spices and vinegar in making your mustard pickles, and BLUE PINE WHOLE Spices in - your pickling with Blue Pine Vinegar, we will guarantee that you will not lose your pickles. John Scowcroft & Sons Co. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine A NEW YEAR-- Another Opportunity We all welcome additional chances of doing what we have wanted to do. There is another opportunity for the youth of the State of Utah to either begin or to continue their higher education at THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH The following schedule of registration is announced for the Autumn Quarter: Thursday, September 27?Registration Day for Freshmen. Friday and Saturday, September 28 and 29?Special instruction for Freshmen. Monday, October 1?Registration for all other students. Tuesday, October 2?Instruction begins. PLAN NOW TO ATTEND The State's highest institution of learning offers the youth of the State splendid opportunities to prepare themselves for a complete life. An extremely rich selection of courses is available to the young men and young women either for general cultural development or for specific training in the various fields. The University has the most complete curriculum in the Rocky Mountain territory. High standard work for serious minded students has placed the University in an enviable position in the educational work of the west. Write for catalogue University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY ?THE LEADERS IN OUR LINE Every O. P. Skaggs Store of each town is the undisputed leader in maintaining the highest degree of sanitation, in stocking the largest assortment of quality foods, in ability to handle the largest, busy day crowds pleasingly, and in maintaining the lowest possible prices. If you happen to be a buyer who for any reason has not yet learned OP SKAGGS of the advantages of an O. P. Skaggs on system  our findings will mean much to S and your purse. ?? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SPECIAL SUMMERTIME COMBINATION OFFER Ever hot Cooker It roasts?  bakes??_boils? stews? 1 Gallon Thermal An ideal method of carrying hot or cold drinks Both for $14.95 Pay only 95 c Down $2 a Month THIS OFFER IS FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY COME IN NOW AND LET US TELL YOU ABOUT IT UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service ??? Is the time to check up on your printed forms. Don't wait until the vacation season is over. Take this tip and avoid the rush: CALL WASATCH 550 Our "Service" man will take care of your needs in LEDGER SHEETS INVOICES STATEMENTS, ETC. OR BLANK BOOKS A COMPLETE PRINTING and BINDING SERVICE The Deseret News Press ? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City MRS OLGA WHEATLY HONEYVILLE U TAH INVESTIGATE BEFORE INVESTING Self-Defrosting BEFORE INVESTING, INVESTIGATE ElectrICE can guarantee greater efficiency with far less power consumption. There are only two moving parts. BlectrICE was TESTED for wear and loss in efficiency, after operating continuously for over 26,000 hours, and came through 100%. This is equal to 12 years' actual service in your home. Can any other Refrigerator show such a record? ElectriCE is the product of the greatest manufacturing combination in the world; Belding-Hall and American Radiator Companies. Let us PROVE to you that there are certain features, which are absolutely necessary in maintaining perfect refrigeration, and also that these great advantages are only found in the? SELF DEFROSTING ELECTRICE GUARANTEED TO BE THE MOST EFFICIHNT--THE MOST ECONOMICAL ELECTRICE SHOP Phone Wasatch 7083 REFRIGERATION SALES CORPORATION ?Distributors? Salt Lake City, Utah Ruy Your ELECTRICE From Your Nearest Denler. A 185 East Second South When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine f CONSERVATIVE INVESTMENTS BOUGHT SOLD QUOTED Send for our complete list EDWARD L. BURTON & COMPANY Established 1899 "PUT AWAY FOR THE RAINY DAY" Southern Pacific Lines OFFER Special Road Trip Summer Fares TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS $40.00 to los angeles via san Francisco returning direct or route reversed $47.50 Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY?MAY 15th TO SEPT. 30th FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31st For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008?3078 USE HUSLER'S FLOUR Se H Made in On,? SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 160 So. Main 4 SO. MAIN ST. Wasatch 866 SALT LAKE CITY ? An Overall with a Classy Appearance -MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flour Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage Man, the Teamster. None Too Large None Too Small 7 CONFERENCE VISITORS! WHEN IN SALT LAKE FOR CONFERENCE IN OCTOBER MAKE IT A POINT TO VISIT OUR STORE! GULBRANSEN PIANOS $295 up VICTOR and BRUNSWICK PHONOGRAPHS and Radio Combinations R. C. A. RADIO SETS All Latest Sheet Music Rest at our store and hear all the latest records EASY TERMS Home of Mason and Hamlin, Chickering and Knabe Pianos Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co. "Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine FALL and WINTER GARMENTS OF APPROVED L. D. S. STYLES Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of fall and winter wear: excellent ladies' number....$1.25 particular people 3 \ rayon Our best med. Winter No... 5.75 No. 83?Ribbed med. Wgt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number No. 4?Ribbed heavy wet., unbleached cot. Our double back number No. 5?Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number 1.75 No. 8?Ribbed heavy wet. Unbleached cot. And wool. Our 50% wool number No. 9?Ribbed med. Weight, Wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number No. 10?100% pure worsted wool, med. Wget. The ideal garment for those who want all wool In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. ORDER BY MAIL OR CALL AT STORE THE ORIGINAL UTAH WOOLEN MILLS 3 Block South of Temple Gate ?  Utah Beet Sugar IN YOUR CANNING ON YOUR TABLE 100% PURE?100% FINE Boost and Buy Local Products When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine No. 1?Ribbed lgt. Wgt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An No, 2?Ribbed lgt. Wgt. Cotton our standard summer wet. 1.25 Briant Stringham, Manager No. 6?High grade tricosham silk. No, 7?Pure worsted woo with silkine merc. Cotton. 28 Richards Street L. D. S. GARMENTS Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request. 142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight...$ 95 264 Rayon Silk $3.50 208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt....... 1.45 217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe.... 2265 32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt.. 1.50 748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt... 2.00 222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes........ 1.65 754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt..... 2.26 258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 'a0 908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75 8 M Lisle, Light Wt......... 108 bleached Cote Med. Wt... 1 1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton...... 4.00 BARTON & CO. Established in Utah 45 Years 142 WES'T SOUTH TEMPLE ST. Salt Lake City, Utah 7). SENO FOR "HANDY BREEDER'S CHART ? "Temple and Burial Clothes PERFECT EAR TAG COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices.  FOR CATTLE-HOGS-SHEEP Orders IT'S DOUBLE HOLE LOCK makes it decidedly superior to all imitations, Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 Pp. Mm. SAM PLES 5 GENERAL RELIEF IT STAYS PUT Phone Wasatch 3286 SALT LAKE STAMP CO. Salt Lake City 29 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah Without obligation to buy please send FREE Samples of PERFECE EAR TAGS end Price List, Name Address L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory You are guaranteed unusual Wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns. No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton No, 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Knee length............-$.75 bleached Double Back.. 1.70 No. 68 Old style or new style No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton % or long legs................ No. 85 bleached..................$2.15 No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot.....1.10 No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle....1.85 No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle....1.35 No. 64 Ribbed Med. Lt. Cot.....1.35 No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. bleached.....................1.70 No. 37 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool and Silk Stripe.........4.65
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot. Unbleached Double Back......2.15 No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool.........................3.35 No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool.........................3.85
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck................$1.75
WHITE SHIRTS "ONLY" Collar Attached or Without......$1.95
WESTCOTT & MONTITO Ladies' Pure Silk Hose, Latest Fancy Shades................$1.69 Men's Long Wearing Hose........................50c and 70c
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL?When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.
Const. Bldg. 34 So. Main
GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail?Telephone?Telegraph
It is the original of the most widely used and approved identification mark known.
45 W. Broadway
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S. Main St.
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids~
Plant This Fall TULIPS, HYACINTHS, NARCISSUS, PEONIES, SHRUBS, ETC. For beautiful home gardens
COLLECTION OF 50 GIANT DARWIN TULIPS for $1.25
Write for Free Catalog It tells what, when and how to plant
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's talking about
Seed and Nursery Specialists
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY Salt Lake 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
Have You That Contented Mind That Goes Along With a Beneficial Policy?
You need our Insurance We want your Business
Beneficial Life Insurance Co. The Big Home Company Heber J. Grant, Pres. E. T. Ralphs, Mgr.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Porter-Walton Co.
every time, and the prize is health.
