Teaching the Gospel." My dear sisters, I hope and pray that I may say something that will be upbuilding to your testimonies, and I ask that the Lord will bless me with inspiration to give the things that you desire. The Church has_ two great responsibilities. That is, the members of the Church have these responsibilities. It is our individual duty to preach the gospel by precept and by example among our neighbors. In 4 Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are informed that even those who are warned are under the obligation to receive the message and also to wam their neighbors. The people who are living are entitled to hear the message, so this responsibility to teach the world is an outstanding one. We cannot get away from the obligation. The Lord declared that his coming is nigh at hand. It is ' our duty, then, to do all we can, and the Lord will bring to our aid other forces besides our missionaries, that his work may be advanced and his words be fulfilled. I speak of this responsibility at this time for fear there may be some who think the work they are doing is the great work of this dispensation. The people engaged in the Relief Society and other auxiliaries feel that they have great responsibility and they have, but their work does not overshadow this great duty of preaching the gospel to the world. Now, there are many debts which we owe the Lord. There is the debt of preaching this gospel to a wicked and perverse generation, and those are the words of the Lord, so do not accuse me of calling the world wicked. It is. I can testify to that from what I have seen of it, and I have seen of the wickedness but a small part, I assure you. The world today is filthy, drunken, saturated and stinking with tobacco. The world is full of immorality. It is a fallen world. It has been a fallen world since Adam was driven from the Garden of Eden, and yet we are in it, and the Lord has given us the mission of assisting him, of being agents in this world, to regenerate it, as far as it is possible to bring to pass that regeneration. It will never be fully accomplished, so far as we are concerned. We are not going, by our preaching, to save very many souls. The Lord has given unto us our agency. We may act for ourselves, we may choose to do good or we may choose to do evil. The Lord said that men love darkness TEACHING THE GOSPEL rather than light because their deeds are evil. Yet our mission, I say, so far as it is within our power, is to regenerate, to bring to repentance, just as many of the children of our Father in Heaven as it is possible for us to do. That is one of our debts; that is an obligation the Lord has placed upon the Church. It is the duty of every member of this Church to preach the gospel by precept and by example. The purpose and duties of the Relief Society are many. I am going to repeat myself again because there may be some here today who were not here when I made this statement before, and I also have the backing of my father, President Joseph F. Smith. "This is an organization that was established by the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is, therefore, the oldest auxiliary organization of the Church, and it is of the first importance. It has not only to deal with the necessities of the poor, the sick and the needy, but a part of its duty—and the larger part, too —is to look after the spiritual welfare and _ salvation of the mothers and daughters of Zion; to see that none is neglected, but that all are guarded against misfortune, calamity, the powers of darkness, and the evils that threaten them in the world. It is the duty of the Relief Societies to look after the spiritual welfare of themselves and of all the female members of the Church. It is their duty to collect means from those who have in abundance, and to distribute it wisely unto those in need. It is a part of their duty to see that there are those capable of being nurses, as well as teachers and exemplars in Zion, and that they have an opportuniy to become thoroughly prepared for this great labor and responsibility. I have heard of a disposition on the part of some of our sisters to become a law unto themselves in relation to these things. I would like to say that it is expected of the Relief Society, especially the general authorities of that great organization, that they will have a watchcare over all its organizations among the women of Zion. They stand at the head of all such; they ought to stand at the head, and they should magnify their calling, and see to it that error is not permitted to creep in, that cabals are not formed, that secret combinations may not get a foothold, to mislead the sisters. They should see to it that the other organizations of women in the Church correspond and are in harmony with their organizations. Why should this be? In order that the women of Zion may be united, that their interests may be in common, and not conflicting or segregated, and that the purpose of this organization may be realized and the organization itself be effective for good in every part of the Church throughout the world, wherever the gospel is preached.... [ commend the Relief Societies to the bishops and say, be friendly to these organizations, because they are auxiliary organizations and a great help to the bishops...." It is the duty of the Relief Society "to look after the interests of all the women of Zion and of all the women that may come under their supervision and care, irrespective of religion, color or condition. Today it 6 is too much the case that our young, vigorous, intelligent women feel that only the aged should be connected with the Relief Society. This is a mistake. We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence, and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women in their duties—domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them." The matter of teaching is one of the greatest importance. We cannot estimate its value when it is properly done; neither do we know the extent of the evil that may result if it is improperly done. The greatest qualification required of a teacher is that she have faith in the principles of the gospel; that she believe in the principles of revealed truth as they have come through inspired prophets in our own day as well as in times of old; and that he or she shall exercise their privilege as a teacher in the spirit of prayer and faith. I am in full accord with the commandment as it is written in this revelation. Unless a man (or woman) does have a knowledge of the truth, has faith in the word of the Lord and his power, and is guided by the Spirit of the Lord, he should not teach. We are commanded "to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life." For we "shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. For the word of the Wee cents Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ." I was handed a poem the other day by Sister Pauline Marie Bell which fits in with Relief Society and I would like to give it to you now: Ancient mothers, God has blessed you With a hope so mighty strong Thou didst give a glorious pattern, Courage filled our hearts with song— Relief Society in faith united Walking where the Savior trod, Gazing upward to that Giver, TEACHING THE GOSPEL Praising ever Israel's God. Daughters of those faithful Marys, Sharing woe with Christ so true, Faith undaunted, God has given— Blessings are fulfilled in you. Zion's daughters, meek and loyal, Children of that chosen band, True and faithful, God has called you, To assist his mighty hand. May we all strive to keep the commandments, and the Lord will bless us in our work, and may he bless each of you with a desire to follow in paths of righteousness, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen.