Margery S. Stewart Chapter 1 w It began on an October afternoon. Jennie, wheeling the new car homeward, in the South Temple Street traffic, felt the change in the weather. She looked with love on the leaves flowing past her from the flaming trees. The year was a river rushing toward the white silences. She snuggled under the soothing mink of her collar and touched her bright hair carefully. What would Rex say to the new color? Laugh probably, with the lines raying out from the corners of his eyes. Rex was maturing in such a charming way, even his graying hair was an advantage against his glowing tan. But of course, thirty-five was not elderly, to say the least. Jennie looked at her watch. Sabra's birthday! The cake not frosted, the ten candles not 24 bought, and here it was five already! How the afternoon melted when the girls all got together. In all the feverish feminine chatter everyone seemed to forget that they would all be together again in just five hours at still another party. Jennie hurried the gas pedal and raced for her own driveway. She shivered when she saw the house. She still could not overcome her delight in its newness and beauty. She stood for a moment on the curved brick walk to enjoy the smooth good looks of the place. Oh, she was the lucky one... She, Jennie Starr, was one of the lucky women in America.... Let the headlines wave black banners... Let the far-off tumults shout from the television screens... Let the riots and the seething mistrust rise and fall she, Jennie Starr, had a sanctuary for herself and her family. She lived in a fortress on this lovely 'street on this October day. Whatever the morrow might bring, today this beautiful four-bedroom, two-bath house, with a family room and a family, was hers. All the charming people inside were hers, from Rex the tall, to Johnnie the newest. Jennie ran up the stairs out of the crisp cold and flung open the door. "I'm home, my darlings!" The shout of welcome came simultaneously with their catapulting bodies. "Did you bring me a s'prize?"' demanded Lora, and _ without waiting, "Look, what we have!" Jennie looked cautiously and kept herself from leaping on a chair with an effort. 'Darling, mouses belong outdoors."' "Mice," corrected Lance gravely, "and besides, Mother, this is white and you buy them at the store." "All mice," said Jennie firmly, "white or brown, store or otherwise out out!" Lora looked at her in disappointment. "It will die," she said, "do you want it to die?'' "It sure will die,' echoed Lance, "and it cost me a dollar and a half." Johnny puffed from the kitchen. His diapers dragged and he clutched a toothbrush in one hand. Lance put in quickly, "The new baby sitter is real good." Jennie examined 'the toothbrush. She looked at Lance questioningly. He nodded. "I think so. I heard him in the downstairs bathroom." Jennie sighed and confiscated the toothbrush. The new baby sitter came in from the kitchen. Jennie made a mental note of the red ring on WHEAT FOR THE WISE the rosy cheek, caused by the telephone. "They were real good, Mrs. Starr. I didn't have a bit of trouble." "Thank you, Ann Frieda." Jennie fished in her purse for money. She lifted her head, suddenly aware. ''Where is Sabra?" The children looked about and absently counted each other. Ann Frieda flushed to her hairline. "She went out, Mrs. Starr she said it was just for a minute." "But I told you she was to stay in bed her throat. She couldn't even have a party because she was so ill." Lance said quickly, ""You know how people let Sabra have her way, Mother. Ill go find her." "I'm so sorry, Mrs. Starr." "Was Sabra bad?' asked Lora incredulously. "No!" Jennie stopped and bit her lip. "Sabrais Sabra absent-minded. She _ wouldn't mean not to obey... She just forgets." Ann Frieda vanished in a great breath of relief at being done with the afternoon. Lance went off like a rocket to look for Sabra. Lora took the candy bar surprise and went back to her room and the paper dolls. Jennie picked Johnny up and took him to the downstairs bedroom to take care of him. Then she washed her hands, and ploughed her way back to the kitchen. She must look for another sitter. The birthday cake she had baked that morning waited for frosting. Jennie pushed John into the high chair, searched for sugar. The windows above the sink looked out into the back garden. As Jennie watched, Sabra came through the trees. The place had -been an orchard before the house was built, and Jennie had pleaded that all the trees possible be left untouched. The departing sun had left something of splendor in the air, and it clung in gold light to Sabra's smooth dark hair. Jennie leaned against the sink, the thin sword of love and fear running through her chest. Without her sweater as well... And walking so slowly through the chill... Would the child never learn? What did she find to think about in all the hours she hoarded to herself? Jennie looked at her daughter with troubled eyes. How could a child be one's own and yet be a stranger? Sabra was too thin like a small wraith against the trees. Her long hair lifted on the wind, glossy and glowing, combed back from her forehead and kept in place by a band. Sabra's forehead was high and clear and her eyes, Jennie sensed, were gatherers of beauty and that was why they had the changing colors. They took the shine from whatever they looked upon, hills or water or skies. "Sabra!"' Jennie went to the door and called the name sharply. Sabra looked up and smiled. "Mother... How beautiful you are." Jennie took a step backward. Sabra was the only one of the children who had noticed her hair. Sabra broke into a leaping run. Jennie knew it was the new hair color that drew her and not her harsh command. Sabra put her fingers lightly on Jennie's hair and on her cheeks, as if sight were not enough and she must, through fingertips, draw to her the essence of her mother. Jennie blinked fiercely. She held the bird arms in her cupped palms. Cold... The child was frozen. "How is your throat? Let me see." Sabra obediently opened her mouth. Jennie groaned, sighting the angry red. Sabra pulled away. "Oh, mother, the loveliest thing happened to me today... The very loveliest " "How do you expect the penicillins to help you, when you deliberately go against them by getting chilled like this?' Jennie realized she was speaking in the high, hard voice she hated. She went on, "Your father and I pay good money for the doctor '.. We do everything in our power." | '"'Listen, Mother... I know it off by heart the whole whole thing." Jennie rolled her eyes skyward and went back to the mixing bowl. She braced herself to hear one of the interminable poems Sabra adored, or a new Brownie song that made her limp with its familiarity. "Are you listening, Mother?" "Umhm" Sabra planted her feet firmly apart. She looked out the windows. Jennie saw that tonight the eyes were darkly blue and too bright. *" *.. Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.'"' Jennie held the electric mixer silent in her hand. She looked at Sabra, and slow waves of pain went through her as the words, beloved and cherished of Sabra, fell from her lips and seemed to linger in the dusk. Sabra knew the Beatitudes to the end. "Where did you learn them?" Jenny asked stiffly. "Over at Jean's."' "Did they make you learn them?" She kept impatience from her voice with an effort. "No." Sabra was trying a back bend now. '"Jean's church gives them cards with pictures of martyrs and the what did you call them? Beatitudes?' "What made you memorize them?" Jennie asked slowly. "IT wanted to,' Sabra said, "Jean has a big picture of Jesus over her bed, and she told me he was the holiest one who ever lived. Is that true?"' She stopped in the act of another back bend. "What is holy?" Jennie bit her lip. ''Someone who is very good." "Blessed are the pure in heart," repeated Sabra carefully, '"'for they shall see God." She smiled at Jennie happily, ''That's the best one. That's the one I'm going to keep." Sabra went out of the room, and to Jennie it seemed the child drew with her all the softness and light of the fallen day. Jennie flipped the switch. The kitchen was immediately bright and glittering with chrome and copper. She browned pork chops and made sauce and rice and emptied frozen vegetables into steaming water. WHEAT FOR THE WISE Her mind was filled with memory and with apprehension— memory of that radiant moment when Sabra was first placed in her arms—apprehension and worry over Sabra's future. Even in the beginning a sacred ordinance had been denied. Sabra had not received her name in fast meeting before the saints assembled. She had been denied a father's blessing. Her early years had not been lighted by the gospel. The kitchen still seemed hollow with Sabra's going. Jennie chopped lettuce... "Blessed are the poor in spirit... For theirs is the kingdom of heaven." She looked quickly in the corner, she felt guilty, as if her father might be standing there. But then she saw it was because his chair was against the desk, the chair that she had chosen when they were dividing his things, because he had used it so often. So now she could feel him sitting there still, with his Book of Mormon and his Doctrine and Covenants and his far-off look, like Sabra's, that look of inward seeing. How the two of them would have got along... Like a house afire. Jennie felt ill. How her father would have looked at her a grandchild of his having to go to a neighbor's house to learn the Beatitudes. Jennie peeled the tomatoes. Her father, though, was so strict. He had thought there was a penalty for not teaching children. He had taught her... Oh, so carefully, but in the end she had married outside the Church. But she had loved Rex. When she saw him she knew there could never be anyone for her but Rex it didn't matter what he was only Rex. When one married outside the Church... It was only natural to put away the contentious things... As she had done. They didn't count. That is, one just didn't think about those things any more that is when one's father died, and there was no one to remind and help. "Blessed are the poor in spired She heard Rex's car in the drive and, in a moment, he came charging in, filling the house with his own brand of electricity. He stopped on the _ threshold when he saw her and made a great thing of covering his eyes when he looked at her hair. He pretended to grope his way to her, "I'm blind... All that brightness. I can't see anything! What did they put on you? Lady Carolee's Sunburst or Lavender Lightning?" "You don't like it?" "Sometimes I feel wistful for the old days when ladies bought hats instead of hair but then I'm a reactionary." But he was laughing at her... As he loved to do, rejoicing in her femininity and her pretty follies. 'You dazzle me, darling!'"' He took her in his arms and hugged her with a great and joyous energy. "Peter Mills saw all you ladies having lunch at the Roof today. He said you looked like a convention of possums." "You mean the minks?" His grin teased her. "Now that everybody has one where are the status symbols?" "Joan's is newer.. Jacket.". And a 28 He came over to peer at the cake and to run his finger expertly around the frosting bowl. "Put the music box in?" "Yes, I did." He went over to Johnnie who was beginning to make sounds, lifted him out. '"He's wet.' "Your turn." "Q. K. Where are the others?" "Sabra was out this afternoon after I told her." He stopped short, his brows together, "What was the baby sitter doing?" "She's new. Understand Sabra." "She didn't have to understand her... Just keep her inside. Did I tell you what Sabra's temperature was last night?" "It was 104. She scares me." she doesn't Sabra came into the kitchen. She had put on her nightgown and slippers. She leaned against her father. "Why did you go out?" he demanded. Jennie hurried to mute the anger. ""Your father was worried about you." But Sabra looked at him without fear. 'I went over to see if I knew all the words... And I did."' She snuggled against him. "Jean said I could belong to her church... Since I didn't have one of my own." "You what?" Rex's voice rose to a shout. He looked accusingly at Jennie. Jennie hesitated. There was the agreement she and Rex had made before their marriage, no religion ever. But Jennie looked at Sabra's thin face. Does a child rise up from a sick bed and go in search of words for which she has no need? What was it that Sabra had to have that sent her out in the chill October afternoon? Jennie shivered, remembering her father's warning, "A parent is culpable if a child grows up in ignorance." Culpable... Culpa... Mea culpa. Her father's assertion, "The spiritual hunger in man is God's own longing for his child." "What's going on?" Rex was on the verge of one of his angers. Placate him, said Jennie to herself, but instead she said directly, "Your daughter went to a neighbor to learn that which she was not allowed to learn at home." Rex glared, "With a whole new set of Encyclopedias! Come off it!" "Listen," said Sabra in her light, quick voice, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled." WHEAT FOR THE WISE Rex exchanged a glance with Jennie. He gave Sabra a swift pat, "Run along up to _ bed. We'll discuss this later." Jennie watched the child dance away. She looked at Rex. He was girding himself, she could tell it by looking at him. He was summoning all the logic and arguments and refutations. Jennie straightened her shoulders. She was stepping out on a tight rope. She felt the air under her, and the long fall if she stumbled. The pity of it was she had never taken tight-rope walking lessons. How did one, so foolish and so unready, guide herself and her family safely to the other side. There was no question in her mind as to what was required of her, Sabra had only brought it to the surface, the family need. "No," said Rex firmly. "We're getting along just fine."' "Are we?" asked Jennie. (To be continued) JANUARY Linnie F. Robinson January comes knocking at my door Where scattered fragments of the year remain, In tasks attempted or left undone. And where discouragement had grown to pain. But January p