EDITORIAL '"And Tell of Time" 'Our times are in his hand, who said a whole | planned."' When we consider time and speak of its many meanings, we find no other word that can take its place. Time can be described, and its various elements given individual significance; it can be said that time is a period, a duration, a point of passing, an allotted portion of days or years, or of infinity—thus are definitions given. Time for us here upon the earth is that interval between leaving the Father's "courts on high'' and returning home again. To the Latter-day Saint, time has a revealed and sacred meaning, for we have been given instruction on times past, our pre-existence; the present, our earth life; and the future judgments and glories. Now, at the time of the New Year, there comes a moment in the summation of days, a midnight time of turning, a forward view into the morning of the year, fresh and new, and waiting the inscription of thoughts and deeds, ideals, and accomplishments. It is in this moment between farewell and beginning, that we are impressed again with a blessing of great worth—our families—our ancestors and our posterity. Again we rejoice in the deep roots of the family tree, and in the beauty of the spreading branches—even the tremulous uncertainty of the newest twigs. In our home evenings, in presenting the gospel heritage to each other, it is well to remember that we are the inheritors of a great treasure of enlightenment; we are the keepers of the treasure; and we are they who must give its shining glory to our children. Recently, as part of a home evening presentation, each member of the family was asked to describe one of the ancestors, to tell where the loved one had been born, his appearance, and his occupation, how and when he became a member of the Church. Then, the other family Volume e Belle S. Spafford, P Marianne C. Sharp, Louise W. Madsen, Hulda P. Young, Ramona W. Cannon Helen Hayes, beloved American actress, has written her biography A Gift of Joy (M. Evans and Company, Inc., Publishers) in collaboration with Lewis Funke. She shares with her readers the treasures of love and friendship, favorite people, beloved passages from plays, books, and poetry, indelible experiences on stage and in solitude, personal thoughts, sorrows, and radiant moments that have filled her life. Mrs. Herta Levy, a prominent stockbroker, associated with Paine, Weber, Jackson, and Curtis (New York City) is also a wife, mother, sportswoman, and world traveler. Her sympathetic understanding of the needs of the woman investor permeates the fortyseven offices of her company. Her special assignment is to help wives and widows, business and_ professional women, to establish investment goals and set up programs to meet them. Active in many philanthropies, she serves on the Women's Board of The Foundation for Hearing and Speech Rehabilitation of The Michael Reese Hospital. Ora Pate Stewart, a Latter-day Saint writer, has on the market a charmingly bound and illustrated book of poems covering a wide range of subjects and published by Paragon Press, Incorporated, Salt Lake City. The title of the book is '"'West Wind Song." Maria Anatassova, a Bulgarian, thirtyfive years old, has become the first woman captain of an airliner. In midOctober she flew a commercial airliner from Bulgaria to London, England. Miss Marie Moua, of the Latter-day Saint French Polynesian Mission, because of her beauty and personality, became Miss Tahiti for 1965. Mrs. J. Armont Willardsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, business woman, has become the national president of the Women's Division of the National Apartment House Owners Association. She was the only woman speaker at the organization's national convention in Oakland, California. Beatrice Majors Van Vleet Burns, wife of the Governor of Hawaii, a busy official hostess, and mistress of the twenty-four room mansion where Queen Liliuokalani lived after the Hawaiian monarchy was overthrown, conducts her numerous responsibilities from a wheel chair. She was stricken with polio thirty years ago and has been unable to walk since that time. She was born in Oregon, a descendant of Colonel Alexander Majors of Pony Express fame. As an army nurse in Hawaii in 1930, she met the present Governor of Hawaii, John Burns, then a student at the University of Hawaii. Mother of three children, an admired homemaker, social and civic worker, as well as a companion and helpmeet to her husband, she is greatly admired for her graciousness and courage. Miss Sharon Moline, a Mormon girl, is Miss Wool of America, and on her tour was received by President Johnson. | Bound Volumes of 1965 Magazines Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1965 issues of The bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1965 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1965 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Copies of The index for 1965 for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index.