VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 71 — "For What Doth It Profit a Man If a Gift Is Bestowed Upon Him, and He Receive Not the Gift?"' (D&C 88:33) For First Meeting, in the Southern Hemisphere, for Objective: To illustrate the fact that God's gifts are ours only if we accept and magnify them. Each of us is endowed with certain gifts from our Father in heaven. These gifts are given to us individually and personally so that we may, if we receive and magnify them, reach to greater heights in the development of our personalities, our characters, and abilities. The Lord tells us in the Doctrine and Covenants, "... To every man is given a gift by the spirit of God. To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby" (D&C 46:11-12). Whether or not we enjoy these gifts and thus reach the heights the Lord expects of us depends upon our willingness and worthiness to accept them. "For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?" We must remember that these gifts are from a loving Father in heaven who wants us to be happy and to succeed in life. Yet, they are given to us on the promise that they will be ours only if we accept and magnify them. If we fail to receive and_ develop them in the way that we should, they will be taken away from us. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: Blessings offered, but rejected, are no longer blessings... The proffered good returns to the giver; the blessing is bestowed on those who will receive and occupy; for unto him that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundantly, but unto him that hath not or will not receive, shall be taken away that which he hath, or might have had (DHC V:135). How can we develop most effectively the gifts that have been bestowed upon us? Certainly, one approach would be for us to recognize the gifts, or potentials, that lie within us, desire to develop them, have the faith that we can develop them, and then go about confidently practicing and 64 applying the actions which will magnify and develop them. The apostle Paul said "Neglect not the gift that is in thee... Give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all" (I Tim. 4:14, 15). We often refer to _ wisdom of Solomon. Undoubtedly in so doing, we may wish that we might possess this great wisdom. If we really desire to develop the gift of wisdom, we must practice those qualities which will help us to become wise. For example, before we make any important decisions in respect to any problem, we should get all possible facts and then make sure we evaluate. If we desire the great gift of knowledge we must be willing to study and yearn for learning. If we desire to develop the wondrous gift of faith, this can be obtained only if we practice believing and following the Lord's commandments. We have been admonished to seek ". Earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments" (D&C 46:8, 9). A young man was overheard complaining that he had no talents and implying that when God had distributed gifts, he had been passed by. This young man, in fact, seemed proud of his modesty and apparent humility in recognizing his own _ inadequacies. Actually, this young man possessed a _ substantial potential which he was wasting by his negative attitude toward himself and by refusing to recognize his inherent capabilities. In an effort to help him, a wise counselor suggested that he select one simple gift which he definitely possessed. This was a_ special ability to be friendly. He was encouraged to appreciate and to exercise faith in this one gift, and then earnestly work to magnify it. In so doing, he soon found he had other gifts which had been lying dormant. By concentrating on each gift and seeking to mag- - nify it, he succeeded in raising all of his talents and abilities to a higher level of performance. Someone has observed that when we develop one trait fully, there is a tendency for that one trait to pull all the others up to its stature. President Joseph F. Smith has said, ""Every son and LESSON DEPARTMENT every daughter of God has received some talent [or gift], and each will be held to strict account for the use or misuse to which it is put" (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 38, 1903, page 689). The Lord has many gifts for each of us if we have the faith, courage, will power, and fortitude to work for them. The Lord can and wants to give them to us, but they can become ours only if we accept and use them. "For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift."