ARRIVAL OF THE SHEPHERDS ND it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed.... And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem.... To be taxed with Mary his espoused wife, being great with child And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men (Luke 2:1-14). Gesus Gs the Christ TESTIMONIES OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY President David O. McKay acceptance of the divinity of Christ's mission and compliance with the principles of his gospel, give assurance of immortality and eternal life. I testify that a knowledge of his existence and of the truth of his gospel is the source of the greatest comfort and happiness to man.1 Brethren, I know as I know I am looking into your faces that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true and that he is my Savior, as real as he was when Thomas said, with bowed head, "My Lord and my God!" President Stephen L Richards I know that our Redeemer lives. I know that he is the Savior of mankind. I know he has revealed himself through his chosen prophets, and I know that his divine gospel is the only plan which will bring salvation and exaltation to man and peace to a distracted world. I thank God from the depths of my soul for the transcendent gift of his Son, the Lord of the earth, the supreme Giver of all time in all the world.* President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. And now may I, of the lowliest of the lowly who seek to serve him, and fully acknowledging my own weaknesses and imperfections, bear in deep humility my own testimony, born of the Spint, that