Ussiting elewakion ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 6—"Fear Not to Do Good, My Sons, for Whatsoever Ye Sow, That Shall Ye Also Reap; Therefore, If Ye Sow Good Ye Shall Also Reap Good for Your Reward" (D. & C. 6:33). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, March 4, 1958 Objective: To emphasize the fact that everything we do, our every word or deed, has its effect for good or evil, and we shall be blessed through our good acts. NE of the firm realities of life is that as we sow so shall we reap. This thought has been a central element of religious doctrine for thousands of years. It is found not only in modern revelation but in the teachings of both the Old and the New 'Testaments. For example, in Proverbs we read, "*... To him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward" (Prov. 11:18). Paul, writing to the Galatians, said, "Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap" (Gal. 6:7). A beautiful aspect of striving to do good is that in the process, we not only help others and perform useful service, but in so doing we increase our own ability to do more good. Step by step we tend to become that for which we are striving. One good act performed makes the next one that much easier. "For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he..." (Prov. 23:7). Thus we reap as we have sown. The story is told of a little boy who, with his parents, moved into a house overlooking a deep ravine. One day, because of a reprimand, the little boy became very angry with his mother. In order to give vent to his feelings he ran to the edge of the ravine and shouted as loud as he could: "I hate you, I hate you." Almost immediately there came rumbling back at him an angry, hollow voice, "I hate you, I hate you." The little boy was terrified and running back to his mother sobbed that there was a wicked man in the ravine who hated him and wanted to harm him. 'The wise mother took the little boy by the hand, and led him back to the ravine. 'Then in a tender, pleasant voice she called, "I love you, I love you." A kind, happy voice echoed back the LESSON DEPARTMENT same sweet words she had spoken. So it is in this life. Every good or evil deed we sow comes back to us in kind. We cannot wrong another without reaping an injury ourselves. And every good act we perform returns to bless us.. Every good deed done to others is a great force that starts an unending pulsation through time and eternity. We may not know it, we may never hear a word of gratitude or of recognition, but it will all come back to us in some form as naturally, as perfectly, as inevitably, as echo answers to sound. Perhaps not as we expect it... But sometime, somehow, somewhere, it comes back... (The Power of Truth, W. G. Jordan, page 39). It is not only important to sow good deeds but kind words also have a reciprocal effect. As we sing in a well-known Latter-day Saint hymn, "Let us oft speak kind words to each other; kind words are sweet tones of the heart." 845 Ofttimes the most precious gift we can give to another is a word of sincere sympathy, love, and appreciation. Such words which express Our gratitude to others spread cheer and encouragement. As wise Solomon said, "Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul..." (Prov. 16:24). And in the words of our Savior:. Every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned (Mt. 12:36-37). Let us then be conscious of our every thought, word, and deed, and:. Not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not (Gal. 6:9).