Magazine PROFILES IN VALOR Within all life a spark of courage throbs which bids fight back, fight on, fight through. A silvered salmon flails its way upstream against the lash of waterfall the surge of river flow. A lone tree spires itself against the sky from the no-soil wilderness of rock in. Brave defiance to the wind and rain. Foot-crumpled blades of grass spring back, resilient, and a single, fragile flower, rooted in faith, proves it can cleave its way through granite to the sun.

*Kathryn Kay

The Cover: Snow and Autumn Leaves�Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News. "a Frontispiece: � Cypress on the California Coast Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: � Dick Scopes Illustrations: jf Mary Scopes.

801 From Near and Far It was with great interest that I read in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine about the family of Elder Marion Rogers of Snowflake, Arizona, written by one of his daughters (Mayola R. Miltenberger). In 1922, Elder Rogers baptized me in Sheffield, England. I was then a member of a small branch in Lincolnshire. Except for a few years during the war I have been active in the Church ever since. At present I am cultural refinement class leader in the Sunderland Ward, Sunderland Stake.

Mr. Akenhead, Sunderland, Durham, England

I must thank you very much for the small poem "Stay" in the August issue of the Magazine (by Leora Larsen). It provided me with exactly the right thought to send to my sister. We have been parted for a little over a year. All of the poetry in the Magazine is special to me because, before my marriage, mother and I read the poetry together. I feel that we still share the poems, even though we are not together.

Nancy Bowman, Barbers Point, Hawaii

I wish to thank a very dear friend, Eva Rydalch, for giving me so much enjoyment as I find in The Relief Society Magazine. I have enjoyed the serial "Welcome the Task" (by Michele Bartmess). I enjoy all of the continued stories and the recipes. I have looked in many cookbooks to find a recipe for date pudding� and there it was in the August Magazine (by Betty Mazzacano). My mother made date pudding when I was a child. We did not always have the nuts to put in the pudding, but we used substitutes� and the pudding was a luxury.

Evelin Pardun, Riverbank, California

How thrilled I was to read the story "Missionaries to Dinner" (by Joan Nelson Ahlman) in the July Magazine. It was like a page from my own diary. We love the elders and try to make them welcome in our land. We have had much joy from inviting them to our home. A convert of two years only, I find the Magazine invaluable, and treasure it so much that I have given subscriptions to my friends. Never have I read a Magazine with more universal appeal.

Margaret Park, East Kilbride, Scotland

I think the cover picture on the August Magazine is outstanding (Bernkastelkues on the Mosel River, Germany). I have admired all the lovely color prints, but this one is special. The Magazine has brought much joy and insight into my life.

Mary K. Hoover, Junction City, Kansas

I especially enjoyed the poem "Roadside Moment� Summer" by Katherine F. Larsen, in the August issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Larsen certainly captures the beauty of a momentary image. Thanks for all the lovely poetry printed in the Magazine.

B. Barnes Richardson, Milwaukie, Oregon

I read the article "South Africa� Land of Gold and Green," by Caroline Eyring Miner, in the June issue of the Magazine. The article and pictures are beautiful, as are all the other articles and the lessons published in the Magazine. I love it.

Cathy Budd, Sunderland, Surrey, England

I have read the three prize-winning stories in the April issue of the Magazine and loved them all. I was happy to see a pioneer romance for a winner ("A Horse and Buggy Romance" by Iris W. Schow). Miss Schow did a lovely job in handling her subject. I appreciated the second-prize story ("Mama and the Teddy Bear" by Lael J. Littke) for any story by Mrs. Littke has to be good. She delights me. But I want to rave a little about the third-prize story (The "Silver Pitcher" by Grace M. Pratt). It seems to me she used a masterful stroke, and there are understanding and depth in her story.

I hope to meet all three of these writers again and again in the pages of the Magazine.

Alice Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 November 1969 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford 

Contents

Special Features  
804 If It's Right We Can Do It Belle S. Spafford  
810 "The Greatest of These" Marianne C. Sharp  
812 "The Spiritual Value of Homemaking" Louise W. Madsen  
816 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford  

Fiction  
826 Trouble and More Trouble Kathleen Peace Gregory  
843 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 6 Alice Morrey Bailey  

General Features  
802 From Near and Far  
815 In Memoriam—Elder John Longden  
822 Editorial—"We Have Seen His Star." Vesta P. Crawford  
824 Notes to the Field—Relief Society Magazine Subscription Price to Be Increased  
825 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon  
849 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities  

Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out  
833 "Look To This Day" Nona H. Brown  
834 Mothers Make Memories Edythe K. Watson  
838 Madonna Keepsakes Florence G. Butler  
842 Hobby Features—Lora Ann Gifford Christensen and Ina Wilson Hummell  

Lesson Department  
857 Spiritual Living—One of Joseph Smith's Contributions Roy W. Doxey  
863 Visiting Teacher Message—"Weak Things May Become Strong" Alice Colton Smith  
864 Homemaking—"She... Worketh Willingly With Her Hands." Celestia J. Taylor  
866 Social Relations—Be of Good Cheer Alberta H. Christensen  
871 Cultural Refinement—The Place of Entertainment Bruce B. Clark  

Poetry Profiles in Valor, Kathryn Kay  
Visiting Teachers, Jeane Reed  
Sequoia Soil or Desert Sand, Alda Larson Brown  
These Stones, My Poems, Vilate R. McAllister  
Winged Return, Leora Larsen  
Mortal Seeds, Margaret B. Shomaker  
Art Gallery, Dorothy R. Cox  
On Doors Closing and Opening, Mabel Jones Gabbott  
Precious Jewel, Vesta N. Fairbairn  
Tippy-Toe, Pearle M. Olsen  
The Reaches, Bernice Ames  

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

803 If It's Right We Can Do It President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] 

It has been said that "we look back in order that we may go better forward." Today I would like to turn back the pages of history for a few moments to the year 1842—twelve years after the organization of the Church; the year in which Relief Society was founded in Nauvoo, Illinois, through revelation given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. According to research done by Fay Tarlock, the Honorable John Tyler, an able and independent Whig from Virginia, was President of the United States. It was the day of Stephen A. Douglas, a fiery orator and leading political figure and, at that time, a friend of the Mormons. It was the day when Abraham Lincoln, a promising young lawyer from Illinois and a rising politician, was looking forward to his marriage to the charming and ambitious Mary Todd. It was the year of the establishment of the boundary line between the United States and Canada, a line that has defined territory, but never restricted neighborliness. Nauvoo was a western frontier town, a part of a vast new America reaching ever further out to the West. Oregon and California were exciting words, although as yet no wagon train had passed beyond the Rockies. The city of Nauvoo was only three years old, but it was a thriving city with sturdy two-story houses of brick and frame, with churches and stores, and a university. The rising structure of a temple enlisted with rare dedication the interest and the labors of the populace. At the busy harbor of the river's bend, boats from down the river came to anchor, bringing hundreds of converts from the Old World. It was at this growing, happy period of time for the saints that the Prophet Joseph Smith, on March 17, in meeting assembled with Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards and eighteen sisters, uttered these "long to be remembered words" that initiated a new day for Latter-day Saint women and, indeed, for all womankind: I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages—and all who shall hereafter be admitted to this Society must be free from censure and be received by vote. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 15.) Elder John Taylor addressed the assembly on that memorable occasion, saying that he "rejoiced to see the institution organized according to the law of Heaven." The law of heaven is divine law. In this, Relief Society differs from all other woman's organizations of the world. (I use the term "woman" as defined in the dictionary, meaning "mature females.") On the eventful day of the Society's founding, an open Bible lay on the pulpit of the historic room. The following words were found written on a scrap of paper lying on the open Bible: "Oh, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children! So mote it be, Amen. With the sword and the word of truth defend thou them, so mote it be!" With gratitude and dedication, the members of the newly formed Society moved into the work defined for it and as guided by the Prophet, defending the widows and fatherless children, nursing the sick, finding employment for those with such need, feeding the hungry, comforting the sorrowing, clothing the naked. At the same time, the young organization looked to the righteousness of the individual lives of the sisters, and the Prophet admonished the sisters with regard to their duties to their husbands. Counselor Whitney cautioned the sisters "to avoid all evil, even the appearance of evil." She urged them to "pray for one another that they might succeed in the work before them and have wisdom given them in all their pursuits." (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 16.) The Prophet instructed them: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness.

(A Centenary of Relief Society, page 16.) The prayers of the sisters were answered and their efforts were blessed. The Prophet, meeting with them in the summer of 1842, said, "I have come here to bless you. The Society have done well: their principles are to practice holiness. God loves you, and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much." (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 17.) Following the Nauvoo period, the sisters in true companionship with the priesthood entered upon the path of religious empire-founding in the heart of the Rocky Mountains, and they were vigorous in the promotion of righteousness according to revealed truth. Their teachings were not merely admonitions; they were continuous Christian practice. 805 November 1969 As we look back over their labors, even to the present time, a divinely guided drama of selfless service unfolds, revealing the strength of the sisters born of faith and testimony, and the power of the organization as it functions according to the law of heaven. A small sampling of activities will serve to illustrate the obedience, the intensity of devotion, the spirit of love and service that characterized their efforts and led to almost unbelievable accomplishment. In September 1876, President Brigham Young gave to Sister Emmeline B. Wells the mission of leading the sisters in grain saving. Sister Wells, in a report to the members in 1915, said: "We began that very year, and though we were laughed at, we did buy grain—the Relief Society did; I did not do it myself—the Relief Society gave money and grain was bought that year." (The Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, page 48.) The sisters garnered in the fields, sold Sunday eggs, quilts, rag carpeting, and other products of their hands to acquire the grain, disposed to do so because the spirit of the gospel bade them accept the mission in loving obedience to their great prophet, President Brigham Young. In February 1915, when Sister Wells was eighty-seven years old, prophetic tribute was paid to her by Sister Annie Wells Cannon and published in The Relief Society Magazine, from which I quote: "No doubt, she will be able to see clearly through the devastating wars which are now raging in Europe, that the mission which was given her, so many years ago, was not in vain. Many... starving mothers will be rescued, no doubt, through the faithful integrity of President Emmeline B. Wells and her associated sisters in this Society, in saving grain for famine need." (The Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, page 50.) On August 18, during World War I, President Clarissa Smith Williams, writing in The Relief Society Magazine, gave evidence of the fulfillment of this prediction as follows: "The Relief Society has turned over to the United States Government [at a price set by it] over two hundred thousand bushels of wheat... How proud we are to perform this service for our suffering and glorious cause. Our hearts and prayers go with the gifts which we have laid upon the altar of our country." (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 72.) Today, as a praiseworthy symbol of the continuing blessing of the wheat program, there rises toward the heavens on Welfare Square a great grain elevator filled with Relief Society wheat stored against a day of need—obtained through the investment in wheat of money paid the Society by the Government in the day of war. An impressive demonstration of the unselfish spirit of sisterhood within the Society comes to us in the action of the sisters at the cessation of hostilities of World War II. A letter from a president of one of the European Missions to the Church Welfare Committee graphically described the urgent need of the people of Europe for soap. In the letter, a strong appeal was made for help. The Welfare Program had but one soap plant which could in no measure meet the request. Soap at the commercial markets was rationed and only available through the use of coupons issued by the Government to individuals. Being notified of the need through the General Presidency, with the approval of the First Presidency, compassion touched the hearts of Relief Society sisters who rallied to the call for help. In ninety selected stakes of the Church in Zion, the sisters drew from their home supplies precious bars of soap. (Only bar soap could be shipped abroad.) Within a period of one week, the local Relief Societies had been notified of the need, the soap was collected, and over 50,000 bars were on their way to Europe—an almost unbelievable response to share with those about whom they cared. Individual women were generous to be sure, but how helpless each would have been without the power of the Society to notify of need, to inspire, to organize, and direct the activity. At the same period, more than a carload of beautiful new quilts, on hand in the local Relief Societies, was donated to the suffering people of Europe. These, too, were collected and shipped in a period of a little over one week. In a report I made to the National Council of Women in New York City at that time on war services of Relief Society, I mentioned the number of quilts that Relief Society had sent to Europe. Following my report, the President of the Free Czechoslovakian Women, an escapee to United States from that invaded country and a former Deputy-Mayor of Prague, rose and said (and I quote from my notes): "Mrs. Spafford's report is overly modest and has dealt only with figures." Then she explained that as Deputy-Mayor she had been assigned by her government to oversee the distribution of commodities from the United States. The quilts were not to be reserved exclusively for the Mormons. She concluded by saying (again I quote from my notes): "They [the quilts] were new and beautiful. They not only warmed cold bodies, but brought sunshine to wintered spirits. They were gifts of understanding love." There is one other story I wish to tell. A sister, president of a small branch Relief Society of Mexican sisters in Salt Lake City, sat in this historic Tabernacle and heard a plan proposed whereby the sisters were to raise one-half million dollars for a Relief Society headquarters building. Each local Society was to be responsible for seeing that every one of its members was represented by a $5 contribution. That dutiful Mexican president had great feelings of trepidation because of the magnitude of the undertaking. But strong in testimony her response came: "I don't know how we can do it. My sisters are poor. Yet, President McKay is listening. The First Presidency has authorized it. If these Brethren authorize it, it is right. If it is right, we can do it!" And do it, they did. This Mexican Branch was the first to submit its money, soon to be followed by full contributions from the other sisters of Relief Society. More than one-half million dollars was contributed in a one-year period. The Relief Society Building stands today a monument to the faith and labors of the sisters.

807 November 1969

Recorded in the minutes of the General Board is an address given March 17, 1914, in the Assembly Hall by President Joseph F. Smith from which I quote:

"When rightly wielded, governed and directed," I think the influence of this great organization in the Church is, without doubt, the most cogent and the most powerful of any other single organization of the Church, for this reason: it is not confined to three, nor to twelve, nor to seven, nor any other definite small number of people, but it extends to the outermost borders of the Church and in every part of the Church. In every live branch of the Church the Relief Society is found, and it is found there for good.... Its work is good, and its power for uplifting, for comforting, and for sustaining the cause of Zion, I think, is most potent.

Where on earth should we look for good, for the spirit of truth, for sincerity, for divine love, for patience and longsuffering and forgiveness and endurance and charity and every other blessed thing, if we do not look for it in the organizations that develop the mothers and the daughters of Zion? What power you possess, my beloved sisters, in the exercise of your duties, in the performance of your callings—powers that you may wield among the people of God and among any people among whom you may be permitted to associate. What a mighty, what a great and powerful organization is the organization of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and what responsibilities rest upon them!

Not only the responsibility of being capable yourselves of sustaining the spirit of the organization to which you belong and of maintaining its rights, and of performing your duties in it in a temporal way; you have also the responsibility resting upon you to impart... knowledge, wisdom, and understanding... To all others with whom you may come in contact.

Today we stand fortified in meeting the requirements of this troubled period of time by the size, the greatness, and the power of 808 our organization, and by the worthy and glorious accomplishments of the past. Also today we have unusually choice women. I have [met with Relief Society sisters in many parts of the world. I have felt the power of their faith. I have seen striking evidence of their testimonies. I have noted the zeal and dedication with which they work. I have watched, almost in amazement, the quality of their leadership. I have partaken of the sweetness and humility of their spirits. I have rejoiced in the beauty and refinement of their lives.

Three hundred and twenty-five thousand such women, working through the medium of Relief Society under priesthood direction, fortified by the glorious accomplishments of the past are indeed favorably positioned successfully to deal with problems and meet the special needs of today, difficult though they may be. Strength is ours, greater perhaps than any of us comprehend.

Today is not an easy, comfortable period of time. More changes and scientific advancements have taken place in the last fifty years than in any comparable period of time in history. Change and scientific advancement call for continuous adjustments in our way of life. These must be made with wisdom and in a way that will preserve the enduring values of life.

Relief Society must rise as a power in helping mothers to do this. Relief Society must worthily meet the emergent special humanitarian needs of today as did our Sisters of the past. At the same time, it must be constant in its efforts to strengthen the moral and spiritual values of our homes, so much in jeopardy today. It must train mothers to maintain well-managed, peaceful homes that draw family members to them even against the most appealing and glittering community enticements. It must create in mothers a recognition of the fundamental values of close companionship with their children.

It is vital leisurely to spend time with our children. Relief Society must guide mothers in the firm and wise direction of young lives, and in maintaining the God-ordained relationships with husbands. It must strengthen community virtues, as directed by the Prophet Joseph Smith, through fortifying the sisters against the dangers of declining moral standards, and the relaxed attitudes toward the importance of sexual purity. It must safeguard mothers against the taint of some of the present-day, so-called religious attitudes, If It's Right We Can Do It through effectively teaching the beauties and truths of the gospel.

The task before us is great, but it is not beyond our successful accomplishment. We bear in mind the words of the president of that small Mexican Branch Relief Society, "If the Presiding Brethren approved it, it is right. If it is right, we can do it." The Lord is mindful of his Relief Society. I am sure he loves the sisters of today even as he loved the sisters of Nauvoo and he will bless and make fruitful our efforts.

I bear testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, to the divine birth of Relief Society, and to the inspired guidance that comes to it from God's prophets. I am humbly grateful for my membership in the Church and for my membership in Relief Society. When all else is gone in life, the blessings of this membership will remain for they are eternal.

VISITING TEACHERS

We are visiting teachers—
How grateful we are for the task,
We walk in the steps of our Master,
What more could a woman ask?

We enter the homes of our sisters
To bring them a message of cheer,
A thought to uplift, bless, and brighten
We bring every month of the year.

We pray for the gift of discernment
That where there is need we will know,
And exercise sisterly watchcare
As we have been charged here below.

Our calling is so important,
Our calling is sacred and choice,
The work is sweet and rewarding
And we have cause to rejoice.

For we are visiting teachers,
And grateful we are for this task,
We walk in the steps of our Master,
What more could a woman ask?

Jeane Reed

809 "The Greatest Gift"
Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969]

Should we ask the sisters in the Tabernacle what is the motto of Relief Society, I feel sure we would all answer "Charity Never Faileth." We are told by Paul: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and, though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. (I Cor. 13:1-2.) Could we then say that the basic characteristic of an individual striving for exaltation should be charity, which Moroni defines as "..."

The pure love of Christ." The Savior taught us that the first and second great commandments are love of God and love of neighbor. When the sisters assembled at the invitation of the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842, to be organized under the priesthood, there was some difference of opinion as to what the organization should be named, but there was no difference as to its purpose. The brethren present seemed to incline to the name benevolent, but the sisters preferred the name relief, and so it was named The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. The idea of charity was fundamental in its concept. The Prophet Joseph declared: "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms." (DHC IV, 605.) Relief Society today offers all Latter-day Saint women a situation in which they can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in their bosoms. In passing we might remind the sisters of the Church, however, that nearly half of the Latter-day Saint women are not taking advantage of that situation. This is unfortunate. Relief Society members, however, are grasping the opportunity to express their feelings of charity and benevolence. No call made on Relief Society for benevolence goes unanswered. Recently in a small gathering, one of the sisters remarked on the great number of women in her stake who were being left widows. She concluded, "They surely must need a lot of good men on the other side." Sister Spafford spoke up quickly, "They need a lot of good women here—Relief Society women." In this disturbed world, fine, good, charitable women are needed or what would happen to the world?" We do need charitable women throughout the world and in our wards and branches. As individual Relief Society members we may fittingly question ourselves as to the extent of our personal charity. Should the Savior come tomorrow, would we all feel that we truly represented our motto "Charity Never Faileth"? If we do not feel satisfied with our accomplishments (and who ever does?) the four gospels and 3 Nephi give us innumerable examples of the charity of the Savior. He helps us to acquire characteristics we lack to minister to needs in a spirit of charity. We need to search out our true motives for in exercising charity it is not only the deed, but more important the intent. Christ did not judge: to the "The Greatest of These" sinning woman he said, "Neither do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more." (John 8:11.) To Martha, overly busy with many things, he said, "But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her." (Luke 10:42.) To one puffed up with her own importance, he says "... Whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister; And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all." (Mark 10:43-44.) The Savior was long-suffering and kind in his hour of deep anguish and loneliness. He longed to have his three beloved disciples watch and pray with him during his agony in Gethsemane. Not once, nor twice, but three times he returned where they were, only to find them asleep. Even an angel came and strengthened him, but the human companionship failed him. With the greatest charity Christ only said, "Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come." (Mark 14:41.) Whatever aspects of our characters need strengthening, we will find help to improve through prayer and study of the scriptures. Then as beloved Relief Society gives us the opportunity to act according to the sympathies God has planted in our bosoms, we will not only perform the outward act but it will be accompanied by the inward grace. I pray each Relief Society member in the coming year may learn the truth "And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity." (1 Cor. 13:13.) The Spiritual Value of Homemaking Counselor Louise W Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] On a dull gray day in Paris in October 1822, John Howard Payne found himself completely, unutterably homesick. Alone in his room he could think of nothing but his home in East Hampton on Long Island. Memories flooded his mind and while the mood was upon him he wrote the immortal "Home, Sweet Home." Into the song he poured his aching loneliness, the longings of his heart for the scenes of his boyhood, the remembering of his family, his assurance that his mother was thinking of him, his father missing him, and the beauty of his home world. 'Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. The song was set to music by Sir Henry Rowley Bishop from a tune Payne had heard sung by an Italian peasant girl. It was sung in the Covent Garden Theater in London in the first act of a play he wrote, "Clari, or, the Maid of Milan." As famous Maria Tree sang the song, her eyes filled with tears, her voice choked with emotion, and the whole audience responded with hushed attention and tears. "Home, Sweet Home" became one of the most famous songs in all the world. It has been translated into many languages, sung in almost every land. On the night of December 17, 1850, Jenny Lind, "the Swedish Nightingale," sang for one of the most distinguished audiences ever seen in a concert hall in the United States. President Fillmore, Daniel Webster, Henry Clay, General Scott, and others were in attendance. Daniel Webster rose at the end of the concert, and bowed to the singer in public tribute to her great voice. She smiled and then turned to face a gentle, white-haired man seated in the audience, John Howard Payne. Without taking her eyes from his face, the incomparable Jenny sang as if to him alone, "Home, Sweet Home." Profoundly moved, as people always were, the great audience heard and many wept openly. For 145 years this song has had great influence upon those who love their homes and cherish their family ties. This story is related by Lillian Watson in her "Light From Many Lamps," and serves to illustrate the appeal of home. The very word home has inspired poets to write about its glories, its simple joys, its place as a haven of security. Home has been the subject of many a painter's canvas, the basis of sociologists' lectures, of philosophers' treatises, of writers' essays, of politicians' preachments, and is a basis of the teachings of great religious leaders. One such inspired leader has assured us that the perfect homes on earth have their pattern in the heavens. With the home receiving such universal acclaim, can one doubt the spiritual values of homemaking?

Can one question the wisdom of the Father in giving to his daughters the role of homemaker? Would one really wish it to be otherwise? No doubt the greatest spiritual value to be found in homemaking is to fulfill the desire of our Father in heaven to have his spirit children come to earth to choice homes. He entrusts to the care of earthly parents his sons and daughters to be reared in accordance with his commandments. As co-creator with God of the bodies of mortals, mothers are especially blessed with the opportunity to make homes worthy of the spirits which have come from the presence of God.

A home wherein dwells the priesthood of God in an honored and respected position is a worthy home. When the father assumes his position of leadership, upheld by the mother, the children learn by example the full meaning of priesthood as a glorious gift from the Father to his sons. When the mother reigns as a queen in her home, companion-counselor to her husband, the children learn the full meaning of the equality of the gifts of a loving and wise Father to his sons and to his daughters.

The spiritual value of love in the home is beyond measure; its influence so far-reaching as to stagger the imagination, its presence as necessary as life itself. Love is shown in many ways. The homemaker shows love in the care of her home, in its cleanliness, order, and lack of confusion. Order is a law of heaven and is a necessary aspect of the pattern after which earthly homes are built. One cannot imagine anything unclean nor disorderly in heaven. The wise homemaker instills pride of home in her family to the extent that all contribute to order.

The homemaker shows love in her sensitivity to the needs of others. She is so attuned to the souls of her husband and children that she becomes aware of their needs and, to the best of her ability, fulfills them. This virtue of sensitivity must be consciously nurtured. It is partly unselfishness; it is greatly thoughtfulness; it is mainly a mother's expression of love.

Sensitivity to others' needs results in compassionate service to them. The homemaker shows love in awareness of the need to make her home a haven of security where each family member has complete confidence that he is loved for himself, and recognized as an individual. One's own special self is unique and must be so understood by those who love him; his abilities fostered, his talents encouraged, and his ambitions aided. Each family member must bask in the sunlight of approval as often as is good for him.

The homemaker makes the climate for growth, establishes the atmosphere for culture, and provides the tools for refinement. Discipline is a spiritual value to be wisely administered by the homemaker. Happy people, useful citizens, dedicated Church workers come from homes where self-control and righteousness are a part of their upbringing. To be taught obedience becomes a blessing throughout life. The homemaker has unceasing chances to teach, to guide, to lead. She must take advantage of her own learning opportunities to prepare herself.

The spiritual value of lessons learned at home is shown in the character of those who hear and are taught. The children we are given are not only our children; they are God's as well. We should teach and train them as our Heavenly Father would have us do. The Spirit of the Lord will not always contend with man. We have long been urged to look to our homes. Church leaders continuously teach the necessity of well-ordered homes and endeavor to help us to know how to make our homes right.

The responsibilities and duties of parents are fully described, the duties of children are beautifully defined, the words of the Lord are concisely interpreted. It remains for us to heed and act accordingly. Nothing else is of greater importance. May all of us as homemakers inspire our families to love their "Home, Sweet Home."

ERRATUM: Through an inadvertency, the word Paul was used in place of Peter in President Hugh B. Brown's article "Testimony," page 725, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1969. (Reference Matthew 16:17). The sentence should read: When the Apostle Peter answered Christ's question as to who he, the Savior, was, he had the spirit of revelation, and Jesus said to him: Blessed art thou Simon Barjona; for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven."

IN MEMORIAM

Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away August 30, 1969, in Salt Lake City, Utah. He had served as an Assistant to the Twelve since 1951. During that time he fulfilled many important callings for the Church and endeared himself to members throughout the world.

Elder Longden was born in Oldham, England, on November 4, 1898, the son of Thomas J. and Lizetta Taylor Longden. The family emigrated to the United States and Salt Lake City ten years later. Elder Longden was graduated from LDS Business College and attended the University of Utah. He served as a missionary in the Central States Mission.

Elder Longden had a successful business career. At the time of his retirement, he was area manager for National Electric Products Corporation. Interested in music and dramatic arts, Elder Longden studied voice and dramatics. He was well-known throughout the area as a gifted singer. He gave freely of his talent, singing at Church services, weddings, funerals, and other gatherings.

In 1924, Elder Longden married LaRue Carr in the Salt Lake Temple. They had three daughters: Mrs. Grant (Gail) Hickman, and Mrs. Loren C. (Sharon) Dunn. The first daughter, Helen Margaret, died in childhood. There are three grandsons and five granddaughters.

Elder Longden was always devoted to the gospel and served in several MIA superintendencies, as bishop, and as high councilman in two stakes, and on the General Church Welfare Committee prior to his call as a General Authority. As a General Authority, he served on the General Priesthood Committee and several youth committees. At the time of his death, he was supervising all stakes and missions in the British Isles. Previously, he had supervised missions in the South Pacific, Australia, and New Zealand.

The General Board and Relief Society members in all stakes and missions of the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to the family of Elder Longden and to his many friends. He has left a heritage in faith and dedication to the gospel for others to follow.

REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969]

Once again it becomes my duty to present to you a brief report of the status of Relief Society, together with a few General Board instructions and recommendations.

The latest available figures are those from the 1967-68 annual report, since the 1968-69 reports were not due in the General Board Office until September 20 and, of course, are not audited and compiled as yet. In order to make the information somewhat more current, growth figures for the previous year will be used in estimating present conditions. Precise figures will be available to you when the compiled report for the fiscal year is published in a forthcoming issue of The Relief Society Magazine.

GENERAL BOARD
We mourn the loss, by death, of two valiant and eminently capable members: Evon W. Peterson, General Secretary-Treasurer, and Mildred B. Eyring.

STAKE AND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETIES
With the growth of the Church, the number of stake and mission Relief Society organizations has grown. There were as 816 of September 1968, 462 stake and 74 mission Relief Society organizations, with 328 mission districts and more than 6,500 ward and branch Societies.

MEMBERSHIP
For the past several years there has been consistent growth in membership, but there still remain far too many Latter-day Saint women not enrolled who need Relief Society. We, therefore, appeal to officers and members alike to intensify their efforts in enrolling new members. The membership appeals are almost endless. There are, in reality, few women who cannot be reached by one or the other of these.

Estimating the membership growth for 1968-69 to be the same as for the previous fiscal year (or 11,000), there is now a total membership of 322,500. Of this number 3,500 are non-Latter-day Saints.

Each year we receive gratifying reports of non-Latter-day Saint Relief Society members becoming baptized members of the Church.

ATTENDANCE
It is our conviction that there are comparatively few enrolled members who do not attend some meetings during the year. We must recognize that under certain circumstances a sister may be unable to attend regardless of her desire to do so; for example, personal or family illness may interfere, or the infirmities of age or the hazards of winter roads where distances to the meeting place require car travel. Nonetheless, attendance is a continuing concern and ward presidents should be urged to do all in their power to interest women in regular attendance and to help make it possible for them to attend.

Second session Relief Societies are a boon to countless women, as are well-managed nurseries for mothers with young children.

COMPASSIONATE SERVICES
The General Board requests that great emphasis be placed upon the compassionate service program which is fundamental in the accomplishment of the purposes of the Society and which, according to the reports, seems to be somewhat on a plateau insofar as volume is concerned. Today's troubled, costly, and insecure world, with its measure of tragedy in the lives of many faithful sisters and good families, calls upon us deeply to understand our responsibilities in this area, and to respond to needs with readiness, competency, and love.

It is our opinion that days care of the sick, which declined by more than 5,000 eight-hour days in 1967-68, have not taken any significant upturn during the 1968-69 year. We suggest that you report and official instructions exercise watchcare so that Relief Society will not falter where this service is needed in the home.

Figures on visits to the sick also have remained somewhat constant—between 395,000 and 400,000—as have the number of hours of other compassionate services, which were approximately 750,000 hours. Let us be sensitive to all such needs.

We particularly call your attention to the desirability of Relief Society presidencies calling on a family at the time of a death and making available to it, if desired, the services of the Society in connection with the funeral. We estimate that 1,000 bodies were dressed for burial during the 1968-69 year, and assistance including the providing of food was given in connection with more than 12,000 funerals. Such service is usually welcomed and is comforting and helpful.

At times, our sisters need to be reminded of the value of going the second mile in rendering voluntary humanitarian service as individuals—on their own.

I call attention to an important program which is proving of value in our Latter-day Saint hospitals. I refer to the hospital Volunteer Auxiliary program, sometimes referred to as the "Pink Lady" program. We encourage sisters who have time, health, and an aptitude for service in a hospital setting, where there is a variety of work situations, to contact your local Latter-day Saint hospitals. Full information will be readily given you.

We commend the stakes who have participated in the Red Cross Home Nurse Training programs. Approximately 5,426 women have completed this course, made available to them through the cooperative efforts of the American Red Cross and the Relief Society.

CHURCH WELFARE
Relief Society sisters consistently support the Church Welfare Program with ward presidents having made approximately 100,000 family visits under the direction. Of their respective bishops, and 94,000 other contacts during the past year. Relief Society members contributed during the year 756,000 hours on Church Welfare projects.

VISITING TEACHING
It is estimated that there were close to 5 million visits made to homes during the 1968-69 fiscal year by more than 148,000 visiting teachers. We increasingly see their value as an aid to the bishop in ascertaining cases of temporal need among worthy Latter-day Saint families and also as an aid to him through the Home Teachers in reactivating inactive members.

Visiting teachers are a great asset to Relief Society itself in bringing women who are enrolled into membership and activity. The visiting teaching program has value in fellowshiping new converts to the Church, most of whom soon make excellent visiting teachers themselves, thus enlarging our reservoir of teachers.

Let us aim to enlarge our visiting teaching program and continually improve the quality of the visit and attendance at the visiting teacher meeting, as well as the quality of the confidential report to the ward president.

COURSES OF STUDY
The spiritual living lessons for the forthcoming season conclude the course based on the Doctrine and Covenants. It is expected that by the time this course is concluded in May 1970, members will have thoughtfully read the entire Doctrine and Covenants in order that they may enjoy fully the spirit of this book of scripture, increase their knowledge and understanding of the revealed truths contained in the revelations, and be guided by them in their day-to-day activities.

Visiting teaching messages correlate with the Family Home Evening Manual and are designed to renew our faith and guide us as we meet life from day to day. The social relations lessons for the coming year are based again upon the writings of the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and are correlated with the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study.

The cultural refinement course will stress the individual and human values as seen through literature, art, and music, widening the scope by emphasizing a woman's responsibilities in community life and the world in which she lives.

LESSONS FOR THE USE OF LAMANITE WARDS AND BRANCHES The General Board is pleased to announce that special lessons for Lamanite Relief Societies are now ready for distribution. This new set of Lamanite lessons has been prepared so as to fit into any standard three-ring binder. The set is wrapped in cellophane and includes sheets of visual aids following each lesson. The cost for a set is $3 postpaid. They are to be ordered from the office of the General Board.

HOMEMAKING
Exclusive of the homemaking discussions that are prepared by the General Board, activities for the homemaking meeting are planned by the local Relief Societies with the General Board setting the purposes of the meeting and giving general guidelines. It is the rule of the stake and mission district board to suggest, display, and demonstrate suitable items which might be produced or demonstrations which appropriately might be conducted. This year's estimate of number of items produced is in excess of 114 million. This was over and above the countless recorded homemaking demonstrations and other helpful homemaking activities.

MUSIC
We are delighted to report the increasing interest and general improvement in the music program. We now have over 3,600 local Singing Mothers choruses, with 52,500 singers participating. Special concerts are being held with a high degree of success.
SONG CONTEST
Results of the Song Contest were excellent. There were 223 entries. Both the first and second award-winning numbers will be heard during this conference—the first award number in the General Session, and the second in this morning's session. These numbers will be published and Report and Official Instructions will be available for purchase at the music stores. We are indebted to our former board member, Sister Cleone Eccles, for the inspiration and the financial means which led to the establishment of the contest.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
It is with gratitude that we acknowledge the tireless and competent service of more than 7,000 sisters whose callings as Magazine representatives are so important to the organization and to the sisters as individuals. The present circulation is 285,000 (7,000 Spanish). In November 1957, the subscription price was set at $2. Through rigid editing and publishing economies, and by virtue of the labors of the sisters in obtaining subscriptions, we have been able to maintain the $2 subscription price for twelve years. It is with genuine regret that, regardless of our efforts to continue the $2 subscription price, it has become necessary to increase it to $2.50 for the twelve issues per year. This price change becomes effective January 1, and applies to all subscriptions, including renewals, which start with the January 1970 issue of the Magazine or any month thereafter. Subscriptions beginning with September, October, November, or December 1969 issues will be at the $2 price. Subscriptions for one year at a time only will be accepted. (There will be no change at this time in the subscription price of the Spanish edition.)

Presidents, we urge you fully to explain this action to ward and branch presidencies and enlist their support in making certain that the number of subscriptions does not decline. We suggest that occasionally the president take a few moments of time in the regular meeting to call attention to some special feature of the Magazine, thus creating interest in it and deepened appreciation for it.

Presidents, will you kindly request ward presidents to instruct their Magazine representatives not to send currency through the mail in payment for Magazine subscriptions. Payments are to be made by check or Post Office money order in the interest of safety. Some orders have been received with currency missing. We remind you that General Board regulations state that in sending currency, you do so at your own risk.

POETRY AND SHORT STORY CONTESTS
One of the original purposes of the Magazine was "to serve as an outlet for the literary aspirations of Latter-day Saint women." It has met this purpose well. Publication of the award-winning poems and short stories in the Poetry and Short Story Contests, respectively, has brought interest and enrichment to the publication. This year there were 469 entries in the Poetry Contest and eighty-six in the Short Story Contest. We call your attention to the excellence of these award-winning works, published in the April 1969 Magazine.

We are pleased to announce that by action of the General Board there will be an increase in the amount of cash award paid to the writers of the award-winning entries.

LAMANITE RELIEF SOCIETY
In attendance at this conference are a number of choice Lamanite Relief Society leaders, to whom we extend a special welcome. Relief Society must do its part with far greater insight, understanding and intelligent effort than heretofore. The influence of Relief Society can be a potent one in helping the Lamanite mother to lift the standards in her home and to make her home a center where the gospel is taught and lived—a place of order, attractiveness, and peace.

GARMENT DISTRIBUTION
The Lord continues to bless Relief Society in meeting its assignment in the Garment Distribution program. We acknowledge with appreciation the spirit and efficiency with which this program is being carried forward.
We request stakes in close proximity to one another which are conducting single stake operations to consider coming together as multiple stake operations. These are proving much more satisfactory to patrons and are a more efficient plan of distribution.

FUNDS AT REORGANIZATION
An outgoing president is advised, in turning over the records to her successor, to see that all outstanding financial obligations of the Society incurred during her administration are met. In those instances in which a reorganization is anticipated, outgoing presidents are advised not to proceed with any new plans or projects which involve unusual expenditures of Relief Society funds.

Important to the Church and to the Church itself.

CONCLUSION
May the Lord bless you with conThe work of Relief Society is one of service and love. It matters not whether we nurture in Sequoia soil or face the desert, God gives to him whose courage braves the storms the gift to beautify the spot assigned to him on earth.
Alda Larson Brown

WE HAVE SEEN HIS STAR
Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea... There came wise men from the east... Saying... We have seen his star... And are come to worship him. (Matthew 2:1-2.)

To the wise men of the east, whose search took them over mountains and deserts to the hills of Judaea, the star was a sign of the birth of Jesus, but they were looking also for a greater brightness, a more glorious illumination.

With the Savior's birth, the plan of salvation was given again to the earth "for it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell." We, too, in our time and place, have seen the star, but have we participated in its full radiance? To each and all of us there comes a spiritual search for an application in our own lives of the message of Christmas. Beset with many interests and urgent responsibilities, some of us who know the meaning of the star may have difficulty in realizing its enduring splendor. In a multiplicity of demands, we dwell among seemingly urgent details—how shall the home be decorated? We ask. How can we provide for all the names on the Christmas lists? Have we reciprocated all the greeting cards? All the pleasing elements of our observance have their place in providing joy and warmth and beauty—in uniting the family on a memorable occasion. And yet the transcendent meaning of Christmas is neither gain nor giving of material objects.

When the Savior was born, the world, having lost much of the gospel belief and observance, was veiled in spiritual darkness—a darkness greater than the shadows on the hills roundabout. The darkness was a lack of assurance of life beyond the time of earth and a knowledge of a previous habitation—a lack of direction and purpose for the pathway between birth and the next estate. The birth of the Savior signified the divine gift of a restoration and a promise of life everlasting through the mission of the Savior, who "ascended up on high... And gave gifts unto men." (Ephesians 4:8.)

Volume 56
November 1969
Number 11

THE GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford, President
Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer

822

The Way to achieve it.
A believing that the Savior's Instruction Orphan applied to each of us. He had little but he owned some desert hills Pine. E "Christmas Year" in the Wagon with the logs Which had � town and delivered them Mas he loaded his fallen and hauled them red the w ] Provide War Many miles to 00d to the Widows who's homes for their Childre night, sometimes beneath acl a White blizz ] n Ceived them ya drifting blizzarg. The ] and a fire, some oney cand Nd s a small fir tree., Ada J. J Zelma R. West Helen G. Lach Leanor J. Brown; Dedeking eba O. Al Luella W. Fi llen_N. Barnes

823

Subscription Price to Be Increased
It is with genuine regret we announce at this time that regardless of our efforts to continue The Relief Society Magazine at its present $2.00 subscription price, it now becomes necessary for us to increase it to $2.50 for the twelve issues per year. (There will be no change at this time in the subscription price of the Spanish edition.) This price change becomes effective January 1, 1970 and applies to all subscriptions including renewals which start with the January 1970 issue of the Magazine or any month thereafter. Subscriptions beginning in September, October, November, or December 1969, or renewals beginning in these months will be at the $2.00 price. Subscriptions for one year at a time only will be accepted.

Increases in the costs of labor, printing, paper, and postage force this step upon us. Presidents, we urge you fully to explain this action to ward and branch presidencies and to enlist their support in making certain that the number of subscriptions does not decline either for the sake of the organization or for the sake of the sisters who need the Magazine's instructions, guidance, and influence. We suggest that ward presidents take a few moments of time in the regular Relief Society meeting 'to call attention to some feature of the Magazine, thus creating interest in it and deepened appreciation for it.

THESE STONES, MY POEMS
I am as a rushing stream Flowing over these rough stones, my poems. From far places where I have been— From the rugged mountains of learning, From the desert of maturing insight, From the forest of deep appreciation, From the valleys of experience, I have gathered abrasive sand and silt, Carrying all along with me. Each time that I, so laden, Touch one of these my poems, Its roughest corners fall away, And it takes on an encouraging bit of polish. Possibly, if I continue long enough, Some of these will become smooth, round pebbles, Shining and beautiful— Such as children delight to find—and keep! Violate R. McAllister

# 824

Now Ramona W. Cannon
Mrs. Patricia Nixon accompanied her husband, the President, in August on his swift visits to eight countries: the Philippine Islands, Indonesia, India, Thailand, South Korea, South Vietnam, Romania, England. She was most enthusiastically received, and, in many cases, she discussed and visited welfare volunteer projects because of her husband's stress on national volunteer programs.

Ladybird and ex-President Lyndon B. Johnson celebrated the former president's birthday, August 29th, as luncheon guests of President and Mrs. Nixon at the Western White House in San Clemente, California. The two first families then flew 700 miles to Redwood National Park, where the President named and dedicated a lovely area "Ladybird Johnson Redwood Grove," honoring Mrs. Johnson for "stirring the American conscience" to preserve the beauty of the land for future generations. Some of the redwoods are 200 feet tall and 2,000 years old.

Mrs. Johnson worked diligently to have the 58,000 acres of timberland dedicated for conservation purposes.

Contributors to The Relief Society Magazine officiating and receiving literary awards at the annual Round-up of the League of Utah Writers in Salt Lake City, in September, included: Pearle M. Olsen, Mabel Harmer, Beulah Sadleir, Lael W. Hill, Betty W. Madsen, Christie Lund Coles, Dorothy J. Roberts, Claire W. Noall, Marilyn McMeen Miller, Hazel Loomis, Helen M. Neilson, Maxine Jennings, Ruth Rothe, Janice Dixon, Rosa Lee Lloyd, Gladys H. Burnham, Betty G. Ackerlind, Wilma Despain, Laverne Stallings, Dorothy Buchanan, Dora Flack, and Vesta P. Crawford.

Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India, stood to be the loser in the August elections, since her Congress Party had split and the Right Congress Party, known as The Syndicate, was very powerful. However, her candidate, V. V. Giri, won the presidency.

Helen Delich Bentley, forty-five, was nominated in August by President Nixon to be a member and chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission at $40,000 a year. She was maritime editor of the Baltimore Sun and has been a staff member of that paper since 1945. Mrs. Bentley and Virginia Mae Brown, who is chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission, are the highest-ranking women in the Government.

Mary Brown and Nellie Broncho produced, in cooperation with Gilbert Teton, a beautiful pageant, "The Legend of Redfish Lake," at the annual Shoshone-Bannock Indian Festival at the Fort Hall Reservation, Idaho. The entire pageant was written, produced, directed, and performed by Shoshone-Bannock Indians.

Tanya Waisman, of Finnish ancestry, and Sarah Harkness were prominent figures among the 6,000 American architects who convened in Chicago in August.

Waisman, who loves color, is against the new ready-made town, which allows ''no normal progression of growth''—no individuality. Both oppose the idea of the forty-acre park, mostly landscape, with a highrise apartment tower in the middle. They favor every man blocking out his own quarter acre, and having space for "children to run in and out." 

825 TROUBLE AND MORE TROUBLE

Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England
m
"Oh, Steve, it's perfect." Jean Roberts clasped her hands excitedly as her eyes took in every detail of the picturesque cottage. The weather-worn stone, the small latticed windows framed with climbing ivy, and the cowled chimney sitting slightly askew upon the low roof.
" Dad, Mum, can we explore?" "Let's go in. Quick." "I'll bet a witch once lived there." "Boys, simmer down, it's not going to disappear." Their father laughed at the excited faces in the back of the car. "We have the key," he continued, "and we can go and look at the cottage, but that dog stays put."
"That dog" breathed heavily and a long pink tongue reached out for Steve's ear. "No, Trub, you can't get out, you would only get into mischief." Steven spoke sternly.
The dog gave a resigned sigh as they stepped from the car, and laying his head on his paws, gazed with mournful eyes at the departing family.
Jean opened the gate, and the three older boys hustled through, nearly bowling each other over. Steve, following, carrying baby James, laughed. "There's plenty of garden. They will certainly enjoy living here if we decide to buy," he said. "My mind is nearly made up," replied Jean, picturing crisp white net behind the latticed panes.
"There may be dry rot, woodworm, and medieval plumbing," Steve warned her. The path to the front door was overgrown with weeds, and the once trim lawns were scattered with daisies and buttercups, while a few pansies grew harmoniously with the wild clover.
Steve approached the door with the key as the boys came bounding back. "Dad, there's a tree big enough to hold a swing," John, the eldest of the three, gasped, his eyes bright with anticipation. "We could have a pet rabbit, couldn't we?" asked Pete, the younger one, while Martin, whose physique belied his appetite, said, "And there're some apple trees and blackberry bushes. Oh, boy!" Jean and Steve laughed as he went on, "We might even be able to grow our own peas." "And you'd go nibbling them all," John poked him with a grubby finger.
"Come on, chaps, let's see what's inside."
Inside the low-ceilinged house, old oak beams ran the length of the downstairs rooms. These lovely old beams are thirsty for polish, Jean thought, and my brass ornaments will look most attractive. Chintz covers and drapes I have furnished and redecorated already! Reluctantly she brought her thoughts back to the present.
A large lounge led to an even larger stone-floored kitchen, and a narrow stairway reached to the upper floor. There they found three bedrooms, one being slightly larger than the other two. A small room under the eaves reached by a wall ladder completed the layout of the cottage.
"Well?" Steve asked inquiringly, "what do you think of it? Would you be happy here? It will mean making new friends Trouble and More Trouble and neighbours," he went on, "but that shouldn't be too difficult."
"A small town will be a big change from the city," Jean replied, "but I think the garden itself is well worth moving for. I know the boys will enjoy living here, and I'm sure Trub will like it, too," she added.
"Trub had been with them for nearly a year. He had followed one of the boys home, a longhaired, mournful-eyed dog of doubtful parentage, and after making the usual inquiries and finding no owner, the dog had become part of the family. The boys had wanted to name him Butch, but after the escapades of the first few weeks, with Steve repeating, 'That dog is nothing but trouble,' they decided to call him Trouble, shortened to Trub.
"Well that's that." Steve surveyed the ring of expectant faces as they all converged in the tiny hall. "I will inquire about a mortgage and, after seeing about a few alterations and modernization, we will move in as soon as we can. In a year or two we can maybe build on an extra couple of rooms."
"We could sleep on the grass in a tent," Pete volunteered hopefully, 'and Trub would guard us from the witch." "What about during the winter when there's snow up to the roof?" Martin asked.
"Oh, boys, you do exaggerate." Jean laughed. "Now, we will work it out so that we all have a decent roof over our heads. Come on, let's go back to the car and see what Trub is doing."
They filed out of the cottage, Jean locking the door behind them. "Oh, Mum, just look at Trub," John giggled as they approached the car. The dog had his wet nose pressed flat to the window, his tongue dripping against the glass.
"Just look at that window," groaned Steve. "He's healthy, that's why his nose is wet," Pete informed them knowingly. "My Primary teacher says so, and she knows everything."
"Well I wish he would be healthy somewhere else," his father answered, hustling the boys into the rear seat of the car. "Will one of you clean the window with this cloth?" he added, helping Jean and young James into the front seat ready for the return journey.
"I don't think that this house will ever be tidy again." Jean ruefully surveyed the general chaos as the removal men took their departure. "And whose bright idea was it to let the boys help?"
Steve straightened his back wearily and with a twinkle in his eyes he replied, "My dear, moving house is an adventure and they are making memories today."

By this time next year we shall all be looking back and saying 'Do you remember when the bottom dropped out of the toy box as Martin carried it upstairs and we found that 'all the old toys which we had thrown away had been rescued, and how Pete curled up and fell asleep in a drawer, and how John got stuck in a doorway trying to move a wardrobe?" "Okay. You've convinced me,' Jean laughed, "but I'm _ very glad you agreed to let Sister Garner take care of young James and the dog. I dread to think what could have happened with those two helping!"' 5 "They were just about to set to work when a resounding bang shook the house. "The boys!" they both spoke together as they hurried to investigate. Entering the largest bedroom, they found what seemed to be a heap of struggling arms and legs, as three red-faced, giggling boys emerged from the chaotic muddle of the bed. "What on earth are you doing now?" Jean inquired. "I thought the ceiling was coming down." "I put your bed together again,' John, the eldest of the boys, replied, looking at his parents. "And then we all jumped on it to test it and it collapsed," he ended lamely. "I should think it did collapse." His father looked ruefully at the melee. "Come on all together, let's get it built up again. I don't relish the thought of sleeping on the floor tonight." "When you're finished here will you come and help me set out the crockery, please, boys?" Jean asked. "There are two packing cases to empty before we can have any supper." "Sure thing, Mum," Martin replied, "and can I have some peanut butter sandwiches, please, to keep me going until suppertime? I'm starving." "That child must have an abyss for a stomach." Steve shook his head. "He ought to be like a plum dumpling, but he never gets any fatter. Off you go, boys. I'll see to this while you help your mother." Gradually the bright summer colors deepened to the mellow tints of autumn, and the family settled down in their new home. Trub had been wildly excited when introduced to his new home. He had run around inspecting every tree in sight, hurtling through the house like a miniature tornado, skidding on the polished floors. Finally he had settled in an untidy heap on the hearth rug, his exploration completed. The older boys had quickly made new friends, while Jean's bright disposition came to good use, and she was soon on friendly terms with the occupants of nearly every house on the road. One person, however, always answered her kindly greeting with a grunt and never smiled. An upright, elderly gentleman, the retired Colonel Watkins, lived further along the road, and seemed very brusque. Jean often wondered about him, living alone and so unfriendly. He didn't even have a smile for young James in his pram, until one day when Trub took a turn in the events. "Mum!" Martin came rushing into the kitchen. "Mum, I've been to see Colonel Watkins, and I think he's ill and he was angry." "You've been to see Colonel Watkins?" Jean was astounded. "Yes. You see Trub escaped," Martin began, "and I went looking for him and I went to the colonel's to ask him if I could look around his garden and he did look ill,' Martin ended breathlessly. "Well, why was he angry?" Jean inquired. "I hope you weren't rude?" "Oh, no,' Martin answered firmly, "he asked me why I wanted to look in his garden, and I answered and said very politely, 'I'm just looking for Trouble,' and he said that I was a naughty impur imp Se "Impertinent," Jean finished for him. "Yes. Impertinent little boy, and he told me to go home," Martin went on, "and then he began to cough and he looked real bad." "Oh, dear,' Jean sighed, not knowing whether to laugh or cry. "I will have to go and explain, and if the poor man is ill, I'll see if he needs any help." "T'll play with James while you go," offered Martin. "Thank you, dear." Jean hurried out and down the road 829 November 1969 to the home of Colonel Watkins. He answered her knock, looking just as ill as Martin had said, his military bearing gone and his blue eyes clouded. After making apologies and explanations on Martin's behalf, Jean went on, "I wondered if I could get you anything? My son said that you are ill." "No, thank you. I can manage," he answered gruffly. "Well maybe I could send you some lunch over with one of my boys?" Jean asked hesitantly, "or some hot lemon? You look as if you have caught flu." "Oh, you might as well come in," he said grudgingly, holding the door open for her, and followed her in to sink into a deep chair by the low fire. "Must apologize," he grunted. "My daily woman is ill. Tried to do a bit but had to give up. Flu, as you said." Jean took off her coat and began to tidy up, softened as she glanced at the old man. He seemed more human today, all the fire gone out of him. "I must go now," she roused him gently. "I'll send some broth over. Try to take some, it will make you feel better, and I'll call around later." Next morning John and Martin accompanied Jean to visit the colonel. As John cleaned out the old-fashioned hearth, Martin chopped sticks outside to light the fire. Jean tidied up and dusted while the old man watched. "T had a son," he said suddenly. Jean turned as John looked up. "Is he grown up now, Sir?" he asked. 830 her eyes ' "No," answered the colonel sadly, "he was killed during the last war. He was only twenty-two, and the shock made my wife so ill she died not long after. He was our only child." "Oh, my dear, I am sorry." Jean went and knelt by the chair, suddenly understanding the colonel's sternness and apparent dislike of children. He was nursing a broken heart. "What he must have suffered, living alone all these years," Jean told Steve that evening, "gradually being left all alone with his grief. I'm not surprised he became grim and hard." Within a few days all the family were visiting the colonel, including Trub, who, most of the time, liked to lie with just the tip of his nose upon the old man's slipper. The colonel was much better and seemed to enjoy watching the boys help tidy up. "T'm sorry Trub wandered into your garden and made a nuisance of himself." Martin said one morning, as the colonel was watching the tidy-up operation. "You know he isn't really a bad dog, Sir," Martin continued earnestly, "he only needs - understanding." "T'm sure that's all he needs," replied the old man, trying to keep a straight face. "You see he wasn't really our dog," Martin went on. "He just came one day and stayed.

He didn't have anyone to love him so we adopted him." The colonel laughed. "I'm sure you never could have bought such a handsome looking creature. He would have been far too expensive."

"Mum, I have an idea," John turned suddenly to his mother. "Why don't we adopt Colonel Watkins as our Grandpa, if he will let us? We have only one and he lives a long way from us, and the colonel is all alone."

They all looked at the old man inquiringly. Suddenly he had turned rather red. His cold had come back it appeared as he blew hard into his handkerchief.

"And you will be our very own Grandpa, and tell us stories?" Peter's voice was shrill with delight. "Oh, boy!"

Trub, hearing the excited chatter, came bounding into the room to investigate, skidded to a halt by the colonel's chair, and laid a large paw on his knee.

"It seems that even Trub agrees," laughed the old man with misty eyes. "Good old Trub, for without him, we might never have become friendly. With four mischievous boys and a delinquent dog, I'm certainly going to have my work cut out."

"Yes," he continued more seriously. "I would like to be your Grandpa and I'll never forget the honor you have paid me today. I only wish my dear wife was here beside me to have a second chance at happiness."

"That's settled, then," Jean said briskly, with a slight sniff. "Come on, chaps, there's work to be done and Grandpa's fire is burning low." They all laughed, and with a contented sigh Colonel Watkins settled further down into his chair with Trub stretched out at his feet.

831 WINGED RETURN

| sent her out to shake a rug
When she was six and three:
She watched a bird with wings of wind
And never quite came back to me.

One day, full-grown, she went away
With love strong for her nest.
Still, when the days and duties weigh,
She flies to me for rest.

Leora Larsen

@ Today is the most wonderful day of your life!
Today is the day that you can do marvelous things!
We cannot change what happened yesterday. We do not know what tomorrow will bring, but today is a gift to us from Heavenly Father! Let us make the most of this gift.
Today we can teach our children and make them happy.
Today we can be real neighbors and worthwhile friends.
Today we can study and learn to do new things.
We must stop regretting the things that happened yesterday. We cannot change any part of the day that is gone, yet, how many of us there are, who, like Lot's wife, turn to pillars of salt when we look back.
In our case the pillars of salt are salt tears, whether they are shed actually or whether we weep inwardly in our regret. All the tears in the world will not change the past, yet if we should spend the energy and the thought and the pain that we spend on vain regret in making the present all that we can make it, what a happy future ours would be!
Stop regretting.
If you are regretting lost opportunities of learning, start learning now. If you are mourning about something you did not accomplish, start working and planning something you can accomplish now.
Some of the greatest books have been written, some of the finest paintings painted, some of the most wonderful inventions worked out by people well along in years or seriously handicapped, or both.
Milton was past fifty and blind when he sat down to complete his world famous epic. Benjamin Franklin was past fifty when he started the study of science and philosophy.
Michelangelo said, "Yet I am learning," when he was past seventy. He finished the huge painting called the "Last Judgment" in the Sistine Chapel when he was sixty-six and was working on his plans for St. Peter's Church when he was a very old man. He died at eighty-nine.
Tennyson wrote his favorite poem, "Crossing the Bar," when he was eight-one.
We can always do something worthwhile, no matter what our age or condition.
If you are feeling sorry because you have hurt someone's feelings, apologize and forget it, and then start doing something that will make that person unusually happy.
There is the familiar story about the man who was branded with a cruel ST in his forehead. He was a sheep thief. He devoted the rest of his life to making restitution for his sin. Years later when someone asked what those letters on the forehead stood for, a man answered, "I don't know, but I think it must stand for saint, for he is surely a saint!"

If we have done some wrong in the past, we can do many good things if we "Look to this day."

833

Member,

@ The Christmas season is just around the corner, bringing with it excitement, happiness, memories, traditions, caring, sharing, loving, and gift giving.
What a lovely custom the giving of gifts can be, how beautiful the event it symbolizes, but are we somehow losing sight of its true significance?
Unfortunately for some people, Christmas with its gift giving has become a time of frustration, of mental, physical, and financial strain, rather than a joyous time of family fun, traditions, peace, and good will.
Gifts of themselves are not important; it is the desire to give that counts. Christmas should be a time to think of others, to draw close to friends and family, to be mindful of those less fortunate than we, to give of ourselves.

Are we as mothers making lasting lovely memories for our children, establishing traditions, by teaching them by precept and example the joy of giving of themselves?
My husband remembers with pleasure and a tear in his eye the thrill he felt as a young boy sharing gifts from his mother's lovely kitchen, carrying in his little red wagon bottled fruit, jams, jellies, fruitcake or homemade breads to the needy in his neighborhood.
Our children contend that the happiest Christmas they remember was the year we joined with my sister's family in preparing Christmas carols; then, following Church service on Christmas Eve, going to the homes of neighbors, family, friends, and some who were homebound, caroling our hearts out. Our children do not remember the gifts they received that year, but they do remember the joy of giving of themselves.

One mother's gifts to her family are beautiful hand-knit Christmas socks, every one with the name of a family member boldly knitted into its heading.
A priceless gift, a treasured tradition.
The mother made the first socks many years ago when her oldest children were tiny tots. Each year as her family has grown she has added another sock to the crochet yarn cord on which they hang Mothers Make Memories together atop the mantle.
Now they include the names of grandchildren, sons, and daughters-in-law.

The socks range from those used for twenty-five years to bright new ones, to be hung for the first time this year. This tradition has welded this family together. Whether a family member is serving in the mission field, in the armed forces, away at college, or just living too far from home to join the family at Christmas time, they always know that they are being remembered and missed, as their sock is lovingly placed on the family cord for the Christmas season.

Most every mother appreciates gifts which have been prepared or made especially for her and her family—a loaf of stollen bread for Christmas morning breakfast, a favorite dessert set in holly-decorated paper cups, a plate of choice cookies, a holiday salad, a popcorn cake, or special handmade gifts from family members or dear friends. There are so many lovely yet simple and inexpensive items which can be made for Christmas giving.

The little family of a young friend are sure that Christmas is near when the handmade Christmas pillow cases are found on their freshly made beds as they turn down their covers. Such fun for the children, yet so simple to make from a few yards of Christmas design yardage. Children love to be remembered. Since Christmas means so much to children why not try some of the following ideas? They cost little but the pleasure they give cannot be measured.

My daughter, living in the Susquehanna Stake, has made her 835 friends and the children in her neighborhood happy by giving "clip cookies" for holiday festivity. These are made with decorated cookies in the shape of Santas, Christmas trees, stars, or other shapes, wrapped in long strips of plastic wrap, tied individually with bows of ribbon or yarn. A pair of inexpensive blunt scissors is attached.

Another young mother of four covers the crooks of candy canes with a reindeer head cut from red and green felt. She keeps them on a table in her front hall ready to pass out to any small guest who may come to her home.

Have you tried making a cookie tree? They are such fun at Christmas time and for other holidays as well. Gingerbread men, decorated and tantalizing, draped from each limb, will appeal to any child. A one-inch dowel 30 inches in height is used as the trunk of the tree (a broom handle can serve very well, too). Most carpenters and many fathers have the equipment to drill the small holes for the dowels serving as branches. You will need five one-fourth inch dowels, ranging from 7 to 23 inches (7, 11, 15, 19, and 23). A five-inch block of wood can serve as its base. Glue parts securely. Sand lightly. Cover with red or green paint and your cookie tree is ready. You will use it again and again.

Let the youngsters in your home participate in all the exciting Christmas plans and activities. Begin lasting traditions, leave pleasant memories, let your children share the true Christmas spirit which comes so abundantly as they prepare made-for-you gifts which is truly the giving of oneself.

2 c. White sugar
74 c. White syrup
73 c. Water
2 tsp. Cream of tartar
4 tbsp. Vinegar
1 heaping tbsp. Butter
1 tsp. Vanilla
% tsp. Soda

2 gallons popped corn
1 c. Shortening
1 c. Sugar
1 c. Dark molasses
2 eggs
6 c. Sifted flour
1 tsp. Nutmeg
1 tsp. Baking soda
2 tsp. Baking powder
2 tsp. Ginger
2 tsp. Cloves
3 tsp. Cinnamon

POP CORN CAKES
Boil sugar, syrup, water, cream of tartar, and vinegar until mixture spins a thread. Add butter and vanilla. Now stir in the soda and while it is still foaming pour over popped corn. Pack firmly into a buttered angel food cake tin. Decorate immediately with small colored gum drops (omit black). When cool, cut with serrated knife.

Yield: 1 large cake.
Use extra popcorn to make 6 popcorn balls.

GINGERBREAD MEN
Cream shortening and sugar. Add molasses and beat until fluffy. Add eggs and beat thoroughly. Sift together remaining ingredients. Add to molasses mixture and mix well. Cover and chill from 1 to 1% hours. Roll out to % inch thickness. Cut out desired shape. Bake on lightly greased pan. Before baking press raisins into dough for eyes, nose, and buttons. Use bits of candied cherries for mouth. Bake in 350° oven for 10 to 12 minutes. Let cool and decorate with white butter frosting.

Part of frosting may be colored red for extra trimmings.
Yield: approximately 2 dozen.

837

- eruzzi, J did not know it then, but it was the let beginning of a fascinating interest. Just so in Madonna Paintings, emotions are conveyed through facial expressions and body language. I must have been on my way home from Relief Society Meeting a few months later, because as that same December issue in my arms as I passed through the checkout stand (the grocery world famous store), till remember the delight of the Clerk who saw it and exclaimed, "May I see that, please?" He gazed at it tenderly and then remarked, "I had that painting in our home when I was growing up. It's very dear to me."

I feigned delight to make her think so and hoped she would notice how embarrassed I did have scarcely even noticed the cover. When I returned home which sat down and took a good look 1956, and certainly at the picture, I not ready priority it received, that realized how that particular part could mean go much more than 1961. But I was determined to serve.

The art prints were featured on December issue covers, but other reproductions of this universally popular subject. I am both pleased and proud that of the fifteen reproductions I prize most, eleven are from the December covers of The Relief Society Magazine. Each has a distinctive personality that has enriched my life. There seems to be no end to the pleasure they provide.

To Feruzzi I am indebted for my attraction to this special field of art. I am especially fond of his choice of model for his painting. Of all the Madonnas I have seen, this is the one I find most convincing. Her angelic expression as she gazes upward is a prayer in itself and I am reminded of the scripture, "But Mary kept all of these things, and pondered them in her heart." (Luke 2:19.) Also, I love the way Feruzzi has positioned the child, sleeping against the mother's shoulder. This popular version was repeated in 1962 in color, and I doubt I shall ever grow tired of it.

A print in monochrome which has endeared itself to me is Murillo's "Mother and Child," which appeared in 1955. Bartolomé Esteban Murillo was a Spanish painter of the seventeenth century. He holds a kind of record in that three of his religious paintings have been featured on Magazine covers since I began observing.

I am partial to each one. "The Virgin and Child" which appeared in 1960 shows a mother of exquisite skin and fairness. "Adoration of the Shepherds" which was used in 1966 captures on canvas that thrilling emotion which tiny infants inspire. One has the feeling that the baby has just been bathed and is so soft and sweet! Of all the infants depicted, this is the one I wish most to pick up and hold. At the same time, there is an aura of holiness that keeps me at a distance. "The Rest on the Flight into Egypt," by Gerard David, the 1958 December cover was the first reproduction to appear in full color. And what an exciting combination of contrasts! I think the lithographer must have been very pleased with the results of this screening. I don't know how it compares with the original, but the reproduction is a masterpiece in its own right. Mary's dress is regal blue with a red sleeve and skirt just showing. Her head covering is a subtle shade of gray that looks purple in the shadows of the folds. She is holding a bunch of grapes for the Child Jesus. Fra Filippo Lippi, whose "Madonna and Child" was used in December 1959 is of interest to me because of the number of Madonna scenes in one version or another I have encountered by this gifted artist. He was the first in Italian art to picture the Madonna in the form of a young and attractive Florentine woman. The particular "Madonna and Child" used on the 1959 cover is part of the Samuel H. Kress Collection which hangs in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. For a long time I searched encyclopedias and art books to determine who had painted a particularly appealing "Madonna and Child" on a Christmas card I received which bore no inscription. One day as I was scanning back issues of The Relief Society Magazine to see which paintings had been used in the past, I discovered the very identity I was seeking. A painting by Dolci, "Virgin and Child" was a Magazine cover in 1961 and the similarities startled me—the same classic features and exquisite hands, the same peace and glow. I am certain that it is the same model on each. Dolci catches a mood of adoration on the Virgin's part that is unique. Another painting I would love to see in the original is the "Madonna and Child" by Crivelli, December cover for 1965. I have two copies of this print and each is very different from the other both in textural effect and shading. I have no idea which is closer to the original. Crivelli is supposed to have contrived a type of devotional picture which is never mistaken for the work of another. At the same time, his use of tempera medium—powdered colors tempered, or held in solution by the yolk of eggs has never been surpassed. This is a method which calls for a very precise touch and does not lend itself to easy corrections. When properly applied there results a brilliancy of color impossible to obtain in oil. With indescribable patience, Crivelli delicately stroked his surfaces into embossed patterns which resemble the vitreous effects of enamelware. Curiously enough, I have been to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, where the Crivelli is part of the Jules S. Bache Collection. Perhaps I have already seen the Crivelli! But this of course was before I began collecting Madonnas. How much better equipped I will be the next time having lived with my reproductions. Being able to recognize artists and paintings adds a special dimension to one's life.

"Vierge à la Grappe," by Pierre Mignard which arrived just this past December came as a kind of Christmas bonus because, for the first time, I was able to identify the picture without having to look inside for the title and artist. However, the pleasurable shock of recognition was only a fringe benefit. The greater joy was the realization that this copy was mine to keep, to contemplate, explore, and study. Great paintings to be enjoyed must be seen again and again. One need not be a scholar to become sensitive to paintings. He need only be willing to devote time, attention, and feelings. And for this, one needs frequent opportunities to see paintings. Ideally, we would all like to see or even own originals, but this is usually out of the question. "In default of originals," said Thomas Craven, editor of A Treasury of Modern Masterpieces, "there is but one consolation—the print—preferably the color print." He dreamed of a day when paintings would be as popular, and prints would circulate as freely as magazines. How pleased I think he would be to see a display of Relief Society Magazine December covers with reproductions which have circulated as part of the Magazine! In addition, these reproductions are potential missionary tools. Being familiar with and informed about these masterpieces may be just the conversation piece I will need someday as I attempt to make friends with a nonmember. Suppose I had been resourceful enough to give that grocery clerk my copy back in 1953? How nice it would be if I had made it a practice to keep in touch and share with her the Madonnas which followed.

Or why not a full year's subscription?

MORTAL SEEDS

Memories flow into my consciousness
Like wheat falling on the threshing-floor,
One on one, yet each in singleness
Containing life with power to restore
Vigor, strength, and beauty.

Once again I hear of life as from a silent tongue,
Lora Ann Gifford Christensen, Springdale, Utah, Zion Park Stake, has been sewing and making lovely articles of handwork since she was twelve years old. Much of the clothing she has sewed has been created through her own ingenuity. She makes patterns herself.

Memories, please, stay with me awhile.
Oh, diary of my heart, remember, speak,
Let me glean from memory's golden field
Mortal seeds, that bring eternal yield.

Margaret B. Shomaker

ART GALLERY

Art treasures are here along this quiet street as in the corridors of a great gallery. A still life "Old Man in the Sun," picture of serenity. A landscape "Autumn Gold" depicts a weeping birch dripping bright tears. Lovers hand in hand "Portrait of Young Love." Even I, framed in this moment of time, title "Walk Along a Country Lane."

Art treasures are here, painted in living colors, signed by the Master.

Dorothy R. Cox

Her most recent undertakings have been making miniature and regular sized hats for tourists. She has averaged making twenty quilts a year for more than twenty-five years. Her family of eleven children, thirty-six grandchildren, and twenty-eight great-grandchildren have received many items of clothing and quilts from her. She is a generous and faithful Relief Society member, and still is an active visiting teacher who is welcomed in all homes because of her lovely spirit and happy outlook on life.

Ina Wilson Hummell, St. George Stake, Utah, has filled the lives and homes of those close to her with many lovely handmade articles, ranging from exquisite quilts to delightful children's toys. She has a talent for painting, and makes the faces of dolls and other toys truly come to life. Sister Hummel is the mother of five children and there are nine grandchildren to add to her joy. All of them are appreciative of her talents, but more so of her wonderful spirit and the things she teaches them. She has served as a counselor in the district Relief Society in Missouri and Arkansas, and is serving as a faithful visiting teacher. Her greatest delight is to be living near a temple where she may join with her husband in doing temple work.

Roe 842 Chapter 6 SYNOPSIS: Several major changes have taken place in the Freeman family as a direct result of the parents, Kim and Mary Ann, bringing Kim's aged father to their home in Los Angeles to care for him after an accident which has broken his hip. Kim has promised his father that the lovely homestead in Mayville, Utah, will not be sold, as Kim's sisters wished to do in order to put their father in a rest home for the aged. Mary Ann has had to resign her teaching position, halving the family income. However, it has been a time of growth for them all. They hope Grandfather Freeman will be weaned away from his home in Utah.

Emily's letter to her father had a profound effect on him. After going to bed without dinner he pushed most of his breakfast aside. "Dad, you must eat more than that to keep up your strength. You can't exercise without nourishment." "I know, have to keep up my exercise or I won't be able to take care of Mary Ann. And I things when I get home, will sil."

Indeed you won't," said Mary Ann with a heartiness she did not feel. It was plain Father Freeman had not relinquished his hope of going back to Mayville and living alone, a rank impossibility. Yet he did little or no practicing in walking that day, and his mind was on home.

"They can't sell it out from under me in any way, can they?" By "they" he meant his daughters, Francine Grady and Emily Dodd. "Not a way in the world," assured Mary Ann. "Don't give 't another thought. Kim would not let them if there was. He promised you, remember, that it would never be sold in his lifetime or in yours."

But that night Kim broached the subject to Mary Ann himself. "Funny thing happened today. My boss asked about Dad's place in Mayville. He wants to buy it." "What in the world for?" asked Mary Ann, astonished. "I've talked quite a bit about it—not selling it, just describing it—how pretty it is, the stone house, the seclusion, the garden and the cow—just talk through the noon hour, we men telling about our boyhood. About a month ago he picked up interest. He nearly fell over when I told him how low the taxes were. Today he out and out asked to buy it."

Of course you told him it is not for sale," said Mary Ann, a little fear edging her heart—a fear that was not alone for her father-in-law.

"What does he want it for?" "To retire in. He's past retirement age, and I didn't think he needed to, owning his own business as he does, but he says he has enough to live modestly and is tired of working. Anyhow, he could turn the business over to his son. Mayville sounds good to him, and I guess it is my fault, the way I have talked it up."

As if to confirm the conversation there was a letter from Francine. "An odd thing is happening here. People from California are buying up every old place they can get to retire in. Jensens sold their place with their house on it for fifteen hundred dollars. Of course it needs fixing up, but these people are glad to get it. They say they can't afford to retire in California, the taxes are too high, and some of them just want to live in small towns. It might be a good chance, Dad, if you want to sell your place. Now, I'm not urging you, remember. I just thought I'd mention it."

"I am not selling the place!" said her father, agitated and almost angry. "Why do they keep talking about it?" Mary Ann noticed a fine tremor in his hands and the pulse that beat heavily in his throat, and her heart ached for him.

"Don't think Francine means anything," she said calmly, to calm him down. "You don't have to sell it. Kim won't let anything happen to it."

Pl dcmary had come in to hear the conversation and she flew to hug her grandfather. "That sweet place? Never! Mother! Dad! Everybody! The most wonderful thing has happened. Just wait until I show you." She unwrapped a parcel done up in wrapping paper and tissue that was crumpled from previous use. Several pieces of very tarnished silver issued from it.

"Where did you get that junk?" said Tommy, coming in. "Junk?" cried Rosemary. "That's sterling silver, Tommy Freeman."

"Well, where did you get it?" "From a loan shark." "You've got to be kidding!" said Tommy inelegantly. "I'm not, and I'm so excited. It happened this way. You know how I want sterling silver and how expensive it is. Well, I was passing this loan place down on Broadway and here was a sign in the window about sterling silver. I went in and it was fabulous. Everything, guns, guitars, jewelry, sewing machines—all jumbled in together. I asked about the silver and he showed it to me—some heavy Swedish stuff with a crude design, and I was disappointed. It was not a pattern I could use at all, and there were only eight place settings. Getting the other four would be practically impossible, so I was disappointed and about to go. Then I asked him if he had any more sterling and he said some, but not full sets of anything, and he took me upstairs. He had lots of odds and ends and I looked at them all. Then I saw this!"

It was a very ornate pattern built around a solid shaft, and so tarnished it was hard to appreciate it.

Rosemary had raced for the silver polish and was at work on one of the forks. They all watched with intense interest as the beauty of the piece came forth, the satin finish of the shaft, the ornate pattern jumping to bold relief by her polishing of the high parts. "You leave the tarnish in the low parts," explained Rosemary. "It adds richness." "But there are only three place settings and a few pieces," objected Mary Ann. "The serving spoons and the sugar shell and the butter server," said Rosemary. "But it is a good American company and a retired pattern. I can add to Heart Room for Home it indefinitely, and I got it for less than half price! I'm going to every loan place in town." "It is brand new," observed Mary Ann. "Some little bride registered for it, and when hard times came she had to pawn it and then couldn't redeem it." "TI 'den't' warit to think" of that," said Rosemary. "It was meant for me, and I'll have more of it. Now, Tommy, what's with you?" Mary Ann hadn't noticed until then how subdued Tommy seemed. "T met my girl and I know her name. It is Lisbeth King." "Classy!" pronounced Rosemary. "How did you meet her?" "She dropped a book leaving class and I picked it up for her. It was the first time she looked into my eyes. She said thank you—very warmly." "And then?" prompted Rosemary. "And then I made a dumb fool of myself. I said: 'Will you marry me?' " "You didn't! Any girl would think that terribly romantic. What did she say?" "She turned all iceberg. If looks could kill! She said: 'I beg your pardon!' like a duchess." "Did you expect her to gush? At least she is no easy pick-up." "It's worse than that. She's engaged. She has a diamond the size of a hen's egg." "Oh, Tommy! I'm sorry. Too bad for it to end that way!" It was a relief to Tommy's parents, listening in. Maybe next time Tommy would go at it a little more rationally, now that he had done a right-about 845 November 1969 face in his attitude toward marrying. "End? Who said anything about it ending? Just makes it tougher on me, that's all." Rosemary shrugged. "More power to you, brother." The let-down after the Christmas holidays was an ebb-time for them all. James and Carol moved to Hawaii, visiting them only once more to say good-bye. "What about my wedding?" said Rosemary. "I want you back for that." "We'll behere. We'll fly. Really, we're not much farther away than we were. We expect to see you as often." It didn't seem the same to Mary Ann and Kim, especially as Dick signed a contract to teach at Church College in Hawaii and he and Jennefer were going to move there as soon as school was out. "Not before Tommy's graduation and your wedding, though, Rosemary, dear." January and February were dismal with rain and Father Freeman complained that everything was damp all the time, even the towels and sheets, and it was not like him to complain, as he was normally very appreciative of everything and sought the good in all. "It may be cold in Utah, but it is dry and warm in the house. This cold may not be low in temperature, but it cuts to the bone." "You're getting thinner, Dad," said Mary Ann. "You're worrying too much, and you must eat more." He agreed, but ate less and less and his walking diminished. 846 His eyes had a faraway look and it was always mountainward. Kim and Mary Ann held many worried conversations. About him. They took him to the doctor they had first consulted on his arrival in Los Angeles, Dr. Judd. "Physically he is no worse than when I first saw him," said Dr. Judd. "It takes a year or more for the bone to heal and put on strength, no matter how you look at it. His mental attitude is dragging him down and can become serious if he won't eat well. You'll have to distract him, make him happy." The family turned handsprings to distract him to no avail. "T don't think I'll go," he said when Tommy and his father were getting ready for priesthood meeting, and later in the week, when it came their regular temple night, he told Kim and Mary Ann to go without him. "T'll be all right with Tommy here. I don't feel up to it." Rosemary haunted the loan shops without finding any more of her silver, so the edge of the first find was dulling. "They all say the same: they don't keep it when it becomes saleable, when the redemption time lapses. They sell it to some man who takes it off their hands. He picks up practically all the silver on the coast." "What does he do with it?" asked Mary Ann. "It must be for sale. Why don't you contact him?" "Nobody knows his address. They just say he comes a couple of times a week. I couldn't hope to catch him, but I did leave a note with one of the dealers. He said he would try and remember to give it to him." Each night there was a progress report about Tommy's pursuit of the elusive Lizbeth, which was no progress at all, unless you could count: "Today I looked at her and caught her looking at me." There was a new low on the last day of February. Kim was involved in an accident and the front end of the car was practically demolished. "It wasn't Dad's fault," said Tommy, who was with his father at the time. "Some jerk four cars up ahead decided suddenly to turn off without signalling and the rest of the cars telescoped." "I'm thankful you weren't hurt, or killed," said Mary Ann. "The insurance will surely take care of the car." Kim was shamefaced. "There is no insurance," he admitted. "I couldn't make the premium and it lapsed. Repairs on this job will run about three hundred dollars. The parts alone will be one fifty. I'll ask the boss if I can bring it into the garage and use his tools. I'm sure he'll let me." This was a real blow, because they were beginning to feel the pinch after Kim's pre-Christmas overtime ran out. "I can't make the house payment this month," said Kim. "The mortgage company hadn't ought to kick. We've never been late making our payment before." But the company did. "That company wouldn't budge," Kim said, nettled, when he reported. Their representative had pointed out that they could Heart Room for Home foreclose without notice if they lapsed even one payment, according to the contract. "You don't mean to say we have been living under that kind of insecurity all these years?" asked Mary Ann. "I'm afraid so," said Kim ruefully. "I'm glad I didn't know it before. You'd think a company would have some leeway for reliable people." But how long could they remain reliable?

Certainly not very long when their expenses continued to outrun their income. The handwriting was on the wall. Mary Ann knew it and so did Kim. "I hate to do it, but I guess I'd better borrow. No other way out." "Then you'd better borrow enough to see us through June," counseled Mary Ann. "If only I had taken my retirement in a lump sum, but I had an option to do that or take a life annuity, and that seemed the wisest thing to do. Fifty dollars a month for the rest of my life didn't seem too bad. It should start the first of March, but they said once I had made the option it couldn't be changed." "I thought Rosemary was going to finance her own wedding and that you were going to make her dress." "The material for Rosemary's dress alone will cost sixty dollars, and we can't leave the girl entirely in the lurch. We have a duty toward her, Kim, toward them both." Unfortunately, Father Freeman's door had been open and he heard the whole conversation. 847 November 1969 He was weeping impotent tears when Mary Ann went to tuck him in for the night. "It's all my fault," he said. "An old man ought to die when he gets this old, and be a bother to no one." "Kim!" called Mary Ann, concerned, and Kim came. It took their combined efforts to assure Father Freeman that they were not in immediate danger of eviction, and that they loved him above and beyond the mere thought of money, and that it was right for him to be with them. "How happy do you think we could be enjoying even wealth, if we knew you were unhappy in an old people's home?" "You knew all the time I couldn't go home in the spring, didn't you, Kim? Why didn't you tell me?" "We hoped we could make you so happy here that you wouldn't want to go, Dad, and I'm sorry it hasn't worked out that way." "Kim and I are committed until June. After that we'll take our vacation and take you home for a visit." "I didn't want it to be a visit," Kim's father said, but he was calmed down enough to go to sleep. Kim had no more than reached home the following Monday, which was the first day of March, than the doorbell rang. Kim's boss was on the doorstep. They admitted him wonderingly, but of course cordially. "I came to meet your father," he said, and Father Freeman looked up in surprise from his wheelchair, which he had reverted to using. "Mr. Shelton, I am most pleased to meet you," Father Freeman responded courteously. "My son has many fine things to say of you." "Good! Good!" said Mr. Shelton brusquely. "Did he tell you I want to buy your place in Utah? I believe in coming right to the point."  Father Freeman looked at him in bewilderment, and then at Kim. "Kim," he finally said, "is this your idea?" (To be continued)

ON DOORS CLOSING AND OPENING

A new door does not always open wide
Immediately when the familiar door clicks shut;
and so one stands lost, inside
the unfamiliar loneness till the pricks
of shutters on the retina adjust
and shadows form in new dimensions like or unlike what is gone.

The question: must
one hurdle forward, seek another dike
to satisfy this need that one be used,
or stand and wait, slowly gathering strength
until reason rises, unconfused
and in perspective; and we learn at length
that doors within the mind must open first
before the heart accepts a new sunburst.

Mabel Jones Gabbott

848

FROM THE FIELD Z

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department.

Relief Society Activities

Gooding Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presents "An Evening of Art," April 25, 1969
Barbara Durfee, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports: "Members of the stake board donned lovely long formals to help make our 'Evening of Art' a memorable occasion. The theme for the event was 'Mother Makes Her Home a Place of Heavenly Beauty.' We tried to include every phase of Relief Society in our presentations. Music included four lovely numbers by the Singing Mothers. A dramatization 'To Hearken and to Obey' was presented. Homemaking skills were represented in a fashion show narrated by Shirley Haslem, and in displays showing each room of the home: how to decorate it, or useful suggestions regarding its use. Cultural refinement was represented by an art display of original works by the sisters and a booklet of original poems was given as a favor. An original piano solo was presented by Jeanette Thornock. The Magazine and visiting teaching departments each had impressive displays." 849 November 1969

Mexico City North Stake Celebrates Anniversary of Relief Society
March 17, 1969
Sister Estrada, a ward president, cutting the Relief Society birthday cake; the gentleman standing behind her is Agricol Lozano, Stake President; to his left is the Stake Relief Society President Lucrecia Juarez de Suarez, and on his right are the ward Relief Society presidents. At the right, left to right, beginning with the third sister from the right: Adela Zapata de Mejia; Esperanza de Lara, Second Counselor in the stake Relief Society; Yolanda Juarez, Secretary-Treasurer.
Sister Suarez reports: "Our stake celebrated the birthday of Relief Society by remembering our pioneer sisters. As Sister Estrada cut the cake, she gave a brief narration about the pioneers. The dress she is wearing in the picture belonged to a great-aunt of her husband. The Singing Mothers performed and all the ward presidents were honored. The large cake was enjoyed by all."

Cascade Stake (Washington) Holds Annual Relief Society Day
May 19, 1969
Mabel M. Collins, President, Cascade Stake Relief Society, reports: "Three hundred sisters of the Cascade Stake enjoyed a program, luncheon, displays, and a sewing demonstration at our annual Relief Society day. The program honored the visiting teachers of the stake. The dramatization, 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox was presented.
A lovely floral arrangement made by Helen Barton, stake Secretary-Treasurer was presented to the ward with the highest percentage of visiting teaching throughout the year. Following the program, a luncheon was served. Beside her plate, each sister found a pattern for a 'Happy Coat' and a list of sewing hints. The fashion show was presented by women from the ward Relief Societies."

Marilyn Haymond, stake cultural refinement class leader, gave the narration to a background of soft music.

"Franco-Belgian Mission, Brussels-Liege District Presents 'Welcome to Spring'�1969 Helen G. Paramore, former supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: "A festive setting, delightful program, and an array of lovely handwork were the attractions at the 'Welcome to Spring' social held in the Brussels-Liege District in our mission.

"Five branches combined to make this evening successful. It was the first time that the sisters in this area have had an opportunity to participate in this type of activity, and it has proved to be a valuable tool for improving the quality and participation in Relief Society activities.

"The district Relief Society presidency consists of Antoinette Otte; Hortense Gobin; Marie Forsbach; Louise Coenen; Jean Marichal; Lucie Didier. "Sheila D. Brown is the new supervisor of the Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society."

850 November 1969 Boise Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presents 'The Excitement of Discovery,' May 12, 1969 Seated, left to right: Joanne Olsen; Wally Tuck; Vera Dike; Juliet Ward. Standing, left to right: Leslie Gilliland; Bruce Wood; Lynn Putnam; Helen Martin.

Lucille M. Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake presented the dramatization 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox, as part of a program themed 'The Excitement of Discovery,' based on a cultural refinement lesson with that title.

"The stake Relief Society presidents of all three stakes in Boise were honored, as well as the former presidents of Boise Stake. Singing Mothers from three wards performed and departmental displays were set up. Light refreshments were served. All agreed that it was a delightful evening."

Orem West Stake (Utah), Orem Twentieth Ward Presents 'Mothers and Daughters Day,' June 10, 1969 Left to right, front row: Martha Pyne, Erna Walker, Ann Spackman, Louise Trotter, Olive Vance. Back row, left to right: Marie Russon, Amme Ridge, Lillie Anderson, Corinne Gabbitas, Gwen Richins, Ruth Rohbock, Betty Rowley, Elma Nielson, Peggy Whitwood.

Florice H. Thomas, President, Orem West Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each Ward in our stake has enjoyed an occasion similar to this one this summer. Mothers and daughters, numbering 141, were honored at this social. Each sister received a lovely corsage.

"The program consisted of an original skit on modesty, 'Is Your Grass too Short?' written by Louise Rogerson. A professional cake decorating demonstration was presented by Bonnie Allred. All daughters over nine years old were given a cupcake to decorate. Two beginner's quilts were tied by the girls fourteen and older. There were ceramics to be painted.

"A delicious luncheon was served and a special program honoring the mothers and daughters was enjoyed by everyone."

Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present 'Prelude to Spring,' March 28, 1969 Front row, left to right: Ruth D. Pearson, chorister; Myra A. Jorgensen, organist.

Glenda C. Merrill, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our Singing Mothers presented an outstanding program with the theme, 'Prelude to Spring.'

"Each of the wards, under the direction of its own music department, presented numbers, with the combined chorus presenting two. There were also some lovely solo numbers.

"This was indeed a lovely and well-accepted program and we were very proud of our Singing Mothers."

Redondo Stake (California) Relief Society Presents Spring Festival, March 29, 1969 Picture: Gardena Second Ward Children's Chorus.

Virginia E. Kelson, President, Redondo Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our annual Spring Festival was a very successful event. A chorus of ninety Singing Mothers under the capable direction of Julia R. Wentz and accompanied by Lynne H. DeSpain rendered lovely music in keeping with the theme 'Melodies of Love.'

"A delightful skit portraying a couple celebrating their golden wedding anniversary reminiscing over each phase of their life together from courtship through family life to old age, was written by Linda Blazer and unfolded through dialogue and song, including an original song composed by Marco Holbrook, one of the chorus members, entitled 'The Voices of Love.'

"Special numbers were rendered by the stake triple trio, a trumpet soloist, and the individual ward Singing Mothers. One of the highlights of the evening was the Gardena Second Ward Children's Chorus. Directed by Sharron Bentley, this group originated as a result of entertaining at a bazaar, and have sung together for five years, thrilling the audiences.

"Over 500 attended this event, and we felt that the lighting, staging, sound, and costumes added a note of glamor and professionalism to help make it a memorable evening."

South Idaho Falls Stake Presents 'Spring Festival of Lovely Things,' April 18, 1969 Wilma W. Gardner, former president, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "An outstanding musical program featuring the Singing Mothers and other special numbers were appropriately woven into a lovely narration entitled 'Spring,' written by Barbara A. Knutson, social relations class leader.

"Following the program, the several hundred guests viewed the many lovely displays in the cultural hall. There were handwork, painting, antiques, and many other lovely articles on display. The theme for the displays was 'A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy Forever.' The Bake Shop and Homemade Candies and Ice Cream Shop were very popular.

Melba B. Yost is the new president of South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society.

Hyrum Stake (Utah) Conducts Successful Home Nursing Program Colleen P. Leatham, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society, reports: "We have been delighted with the home nursing program in our stake. It began in April of 1969 under the direction of former president Bernice B. Darley, her counselors, and the Red Cross executives, Cecilia White, Claire Sawyer, R.N., and Mary Clark, Red Cross Western Area Nursing Consultant.

"To date we have had 260 sisters and four men complete the course. The classes were taught by seventeen registered nurses, nurses' aids, and specially trained sisters from our stake. It is our plan that every sister who desires this training be able to take it. The cooperation from the wards has been gratifying, and the priesthood support from the stake presidency and bishoprics has helped to insure the success of our program."

854 November 1969 East Sharon Stake (Utah), Edgemont Third Ward Displays Quilts, May 14, 1969 Left to right: Beverly Carroll, quilting chairman, Edgemont Third Ward Relief Society; Daisy A. Tew, President; Montana Richards, Homemaking Counselor.

Sarah M. Grow, President, East Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our May leadership meeting, the Edgemont Third Ward displayed lovely quilts. More than 125 quilts were on display by thirty sisters. They featured the various stages of construction and ranged in styles from those of our pioneer sisters to the new and different quilts of today. Quilting books and patterns, as well as quilting stands, were sold during the day's activities."

856 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 101 One of Joseph Smith's Contributions Translation of The Book of Mormon Elder Roy W.

Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.)

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970  
Southern Hemisphere: July 1970

OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman, knowing that The Book of Mormon was translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith through the power of God, gains increased faith in Jesus Christ as her Savior.

INTRODUCTION
One of Joseph Smith's contributions to the salvation of men in this world was the bringing forth of "... The Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God." (D&C 135:3.) The Book of Mormon, translated from gold plates received from the resurrected Moroni, an ancient American prophet, is a condensed history of people from the old world who were divinely directed to America. The first of these peoples was the Jaredites from the Tower of Babel. (The Book of Ether.) Toward the end of their existence, a colony of Israelites, under the leadership of the prophet Lehi, came from Jerusalem about 600 B.C. In time the Israelites divided into two factions known as Nephites and Lamanites, the former being white and the latter becoming dark-skinned. Another group, known as Mulekites, came from Palestine about the time of the overthrow of the kingdom of Judah in 589 B.C. A merger of this people, with other inhabitants of the land occurred several centuries after Lehi's colony landed in what is now America. (Omni 12:22.) Prophets of God taught principles of salvation to The Book of Mormon people, warning them of temporal and spiritual destruction if they became unrighteous. The predictions of the prophets were literally fulfilled. The Jaredites destroyed themselves by civil war, and the Nephites were later swept off the earth by the Lamanites. North and South American Indian tribes of today are probably descendants of the Lamanites.

PURPOSES OF THE BOOK OF MORMON
Moroni recorded some purposes of The Book of Mormon as follows: (1) to show unto the house of Israel what the Lord has done for their fathers, (2) to inform latter-day Israel of the covenants of the Lord that they might not be cast off forever, and (3) "to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God" (Title page, Book of Mormon.) The Book of Mormon prophet Nephi saw in vision other ways in which this book of scripture would be of utmost value to people in the last days. First, it would constitute another witness with the Bible that God's purposes would be fulfilled in behalf of his covenanted people. (2 Ne. 29:8.) Second, it would establish the truth of the Bible. (1 Ne. 13:40.)

Class Discussion
If you were to select the most important purpose of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon, which one would it be?

THE BIBLE AND THE BOOK OF MORMON
Not only does The Book of Mormon witness to the truth of the Bible, but the Bible testifies to the truth of the Nephite record. This testimony came to many Bible prophets who were inspired to prophesy concerning The Book of Mormon. Ezekiel foresaw that the "stick of Judah" (Bible) would in the last days be joined with the "stick of Ephraim" or "Joseph" (Book of Mormon) when the gathering of Israel would take place. These two records of different continents would be one in bringing people to an acceptance of Jesus Christ as their Savior. (Ezek. 37:16-21.) Significant among the prophecies regarding The Book of Mormon is the one recorded in chapter 29 of Isaiah. A "book," or the writings of a people who should speak from the dust, would be "... Delivered to him that is not learned." (Joseph Smith.) The words of the book, however, would be taken "... To one that is learned...." (Prof. Charles Anthon), who would fulfill Isaiah's prophecy that he could not read a sealed book. (vs. 11-12.) The "book" would be in the world and then the Holy Land would "... Be turned into a fruitful field." (v. 17.) The Bible and The Book of Mormon testify of each other as God's people recorded scripture on the eastern and western continents.

Class Discussion
What does it mean to you that the Bible testifies of The Book of Mormon?

CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON
The Book of Mormon shows men the way to salvation in the following three ways: 1. It imparts a knowledge of the true gospel of Jesus Christ. 2. It proclaims the reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ and of the future life for all men. 3. It assists men to live the gospel plan by witnessing to them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, that the book is true.

THE BOOK IMPARTS KNOWLEDGE
The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the following evaluation of The Book of Mormon: "... I told the brethren [Twelve Apostles] that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 194.) The Three Witnesses to the truth of this book testified that it had been "... Translated by the gift and power of God...." and that "... We know of a surety that the work is true." (The Book of Mormon, The Testimony of Three Witnesses, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris.) The Lord revealed that The Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (D&C 20:9; 27:5.)

What is the gospel? It is the principles, doctrines, and ordinances revealed from God for the salvation of those who will accept them. The Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel because it is a record of God's dealings with a people who had the gospel and because it records what men must do to gain salvation. A brief summary of some fundamental Book of Mormon doctrines, found in the Doctrine and Covenants is as follows: (1) The existence, eternal nature, and creative power of God. (2) The creation of man in God's image and likeness. (3) Man should love, serve, and worship the only living and true God and no other being. (4) The fall of man came by transgression of God's commandments. (5) Because of the fall, Christ's sacrifice was made as foretold in scriptures. (6) Jesus, though tempted, was sinless. (7) Jesus was crucified, resurrected, and ascended into heaven. (8) Salvation in the kingdom of God is dependent upon acceptance of the gospel and endurance in faith to the end. (9) Salvation is for faithful believers who lived before as well as during and after the earthly ministry of Jesus. (10) The "... Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God, infinite and eternal, without end." (D&C 20:28.) (11) Justification and sanctification through the grace of Jesus Christ are just and true. (12) Man may fall from grace and depart from God. (D&C 20:17-34.)

CLARIFICATION OF GOSPEL TRUTHS
The Book of Mormon adds to our understanding of Bible teachings.

The following Beatitudes from Jesus' discourse to the Nephites compared with the rendition in the Bible are examples. First read the verses without the italicized words as given in the Bible and then the entire verse as it appears in The Book of Mormon.

859 November 1969

Yea, blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
(3 Ne. 12:3; c.f. Matt. 5:3.)

And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost.
(3 Ne. 12:6; c.f. Matt. 5:6.)

Class Discussion
Do you know of other clarifications of truths from The Book of Mormon?

PROPHECIES OF THE LAST DAYS

The condition of the apostate religious world is clearly depicted in prophecy, a condition which will eventually bring great destruction at the time of the second coming of Christ.
(2 Ne. 28.)

The role of the house of Israel in the last days as an instrument in bringing about God's purposes for man, and the gathering of the Jewish people to the Holy Land are other parts of these events.
(2 Ne. 30:2-10; 3 Ne. 20:29-36; 1 Ne. 22:1-12.)

THE REALITY OF THE FUTURE LIFE

Class Discussion
What is the principal message of The Book of Mormon for the people of today?
The title page of The Book of Mormon states that it is to convince every man that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God.
What does this mean?
Essentially, it means that Jesus Christ is divine, the literal Son of God, who has provided the means through his atonement that man may be saved.
It also provides the answer to the principal need of the world today—a faith in the reality of the future existence.
The Book of Mormon stands as a 860 witness of the divinity of Jesus Christ as the Being who made it possible for all people to be resurrected from the dead.

Moroni, the last historian-prophet of the Nephite nation, having died about 1500 years before, came to the Prophet Joseph Smith as a resurrected being.
Of him, the Prophet wrote:
Moroni, the person who deposited the plates, from whence the Book of Mormon was translated, in a hill in Manchester, Ontario County, New York, being dead and raised again therefrom, appeared unto me.
(Elders' Journal, Far West, Mo., July 1838.)

Nephite prophets upon the American continent were inspired to witness to the continued conscious existence of man.
The spirit world or the place where the departed dead live as conscious, living beings, prior to the resurrection, is described and attested to.

Alma testifies that at death the spirit enters the world of spirits where the righteous enter paradise and the wicked are in prison.
Happiness is the reward of those who have accepted the atonement of Christ, while those who chose evil works are in a state of sorrow because of their iniquity.
(Alma 40:11-14.)

The last testimony of the prophet Moroni was that at death his spirit would "... Rest in the paradise of God, until my spirit and body shall again reunite."
(Moroni 10:34.)

The resurrection of Jesus, as the first to receive this blessing on this earth, is related in The Book of Mormon.
His dramatic appearance to the Nephites begins with the people hearing a voice from heaven which pierced them to the center, causing their hearts to burn.
They heard these words:
Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him.
(3 Ne. 11:7.)

They saw a man descending out of heaven, clothed in a white robe, who said:
Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world.
And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning.
(3 Ne. 11:10-11.)

Thereafter, the multitude felt the prints of the nails in his hands and the wound in his side, witnessing the reality of his resurrection with flesh and bones.

Man lives as a spirit entity at death awaiting the resurrection of his body and a uniting with his spirit never to be divided again in death.
This message the world needs today.
Unbelief in the reality of life after death does not alter the truth.

Class Discussion
Discuss the ways in which The Book of Mormon is a testator of the reality of the future life.

A POWER FOR SALVATION

The greatest evidence of religious truth is the knowledge which comes through the Holy Ghost.
This power not only affects the mind but also the heart.
The process of testimony is the Spirit speaking to man's spirit.
The impression of the Spirit upon man's soul is so powerful that the knowledge continues as long as the person is worthy.

Lesson Department

To seal the validity of The Book of Mormon for those to whom this record would come, the prophet Moroni gave the following promise:
And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true;
and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ,
he will manifest the truth of it unto you by the power of the Holy Ghost.
And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things.
(Moroni 10:4-5.)

The fulfillment of this promise is known to thousands of members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

The Savior promised that if one would accept his doctrine, he would know of its truth.
(John 7:16-17.)

The Holy Ghost has operated in the lives of those who seek diligently as they strive to keep the commandments.

Class Discussion
Discuss The testimony of the truth from the Holy Ghost is more powerful in a person's life than a vision.

THE BOOK OF MORMON AND SALVATION

What place does the testimony of The Book of Mormon have in one's personal salvation?
The answer to this question is found both in the scriptures and in the lives of hundreds of thousands of people.
Basically, when one learns by the power of the Holy Ghost that the Book of Mormon is true,
he also receives the knowledge that Jesus Christ lives as an immortal and resurrected being.
(Moroni 10:7.)

861 November 1969

Class Discussion
In view of the contents of this lesson, why would you believe that The Book of Mormon contributes to the evaluation of Joseph Smith, namely, that he had done "more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it"?

IMPLEMENTATION

The Book of Mormon stands as a convincing witness that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God.

Not only do its teachings bear testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but they impress their divinity by the spirit which accompanies scripture. There is power in truth which the spiritually minded recognize. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 6, p. 273 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC\}.) The Book of Mormon is a powerful book. It convinces men of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ through its clarification of the doctrines and ordinances which save. Great truths that affect the intellect and the heart are found throughout its pages. The Book of Mormon is a witness for Jesus Christ as the literal Son of God who was the firstborn from the dead. Not only does it attest to his divinity and resurrection, but to the truth PRECIOUS JEWEL 862 that all men shall receive their bodies again never to be separated in death. Faith in the reality of this experience—conscious existence forever, eternally—is the present need of an unbelieving world. The Book of Mormon is in the world for this express purpose—a testifier. This divine record has stood the test of time and will continue to stand as a bulwark of strength for those who have learned from its pages eternal truth by which they guide their lives. Above all else, this book of scripture has instilled faith in God and in his Son Jesus Christ. The Holy Ghost has borne testimony of the truth of The Book of Mormon, making it one of the greatest of all books in influencing the lives of people. They have endured hardships, trials, and great difficulties because the Spirit has continued to motivate them through the truths of this ancient record. All men may know the truth for themselves. To know what the Lord requires of man and then to apply that knowledge from the scriptures is a rewarding experience for the faithful. Elder John A. Widtsoe expressed it this way: The degree of faith possessed by any man depends not upon the extent of his knowledge, but upon the certainty of his knowledge, which leads to the proper use of his knowledge.... (John A. Widtsoe, Joseph Smith, p. 163.) Life has many facets, like a fine-cut diamond, and in its heart the sparkling fire is love. —Vesta N. Fairbairn VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 5—Weak Things May Become Strong Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 OBJECTIVE: To understand that by overcoming our weaknesses we can become strong. Tall, slim, and beautiful at eighteen, she gazed discontentedly at her mother. "I don't have any special gift," she complained. "I have only weaknesses." Have you shared, with this teenager, an overwhelming sense of inadequacy? When you wanted to make a musical instrument sing, have you ever struck a wrong note? When you wanted to share a particularly radiant sunset, have you responded less than eloquently with, "It's beautiful," having no words to match your emotion? Have you wished that you were more able? In such moments of inadequacy it helps to remember, among others, Moroni, Moses, and Paul. Moroni fearing the mockery of the Gentiles "... Because of awkwardness of our [his] hands" (Ether 12:24) complained, "... When we write we behold our weakness, and stumble because of the placing of our words." (Ether 12:25.) The Lord answered him saying, "I give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is sufficient for all men that humble themselves before me; for if they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will I make weak things become strong unto them." (Ether 12:27.) As we read the later words of Moroni, we know the truth of God's promise, because Moroni expressed some of the greatest concepts given to man. The Apostle Paul whose magnificent gospel teachings make up the great bulk of the apostolic writings of the New Testament said: And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am [ strong. (II Cor. 12:7-10.) 863 November 1969 Moses said unto the Lord, "... I am not eloquent but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue. And the Lord said unto him.... I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say." (Exodus 4:10-12.) The great promise of the Lord is to all of us. We grow through struggle. If we humble ourselves and have faith, our weaknesses will help us to grow strong. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness 'Discussion 5—'She... Worketh Willingly With Her Hands.' (Prov. 31:13) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 OBJECTIVE: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of foods. INTRODUCTION The people of our Latter-day Saint communities are accustomed to the idea of home food storage. Ever since our great-grandparents entered these valleys of the mountains, we have been planting gardens, reaping rich harvests, and storing the grains, fruits, and vegetables which they have yielded, to supply us with food for the winter months. Few of our parents would have felt secure if they had not known that their shelves were well stocked with jars of home-canned fruits and vegetables and that their supply of sugar, flour, and other staples was complete. Many of us, together with our Church members in other parts of the world, are still cognizant of 864 the need for family preparedness and are able to look with pride on our shelves of delicious jams, jellies, pickles, and bottled fruits of every kind and our cupboards and pantries supplied with all the necessities for the year ahead. Some of us, on the other hand, have forsaken these traditions and have accustomed ourselves to the convenience of the corner grocery store and are living from week to week with little or no regard for the future. We need to remind ourselves that a supply of food in our homes may be much more valuable than money under emergency conditions when food might be difficult to obtain or in the event of misfortune such as accident or loss of health which could result in loss of employment. WHAT FOODS SHALL WE STORE? Requirements of people and storage conditions in different areas and countries are so varied that the preparation of a list of what to store would not be practical.

Any good plan for a year's food supply should be based on a good plan for a daily food supply. It is most desirable to store those foods which are normally used by the family. It is recommended that we eat the stored supplies and replace them as we use them on a rotation basis. The saying "store what you eat and eat what you store" is a wise and practical one. It is not wise to store a quantity of food that the family does not normally eat or that is not acceptable in the regular family food pattern.

DETERMINING OUR FOOD NEEDS

There are several factors which govern the needs of a family and determine the kinds and amounts of food to be stored. Because of this, our Church leaders have in their wisdom left the details of food storage to each individual family to work out for itself. Our needs, then, will vary according to our family's particular tastes, situation, and circumstances, as determined by (1) the climate in which we live; (2) the size of the family; (3) the ages of the family members; (4) the occupations and physical activities of the members; (5) the likes and dislikes of the family; and (6) any special diet problems within the family.

MEETING THE COST OF FOOD STORAGE

Probably the most significant reason why many of our people do not have a reserve of food supplies and other provisions is that they think they cannot afford it. It is true that many families are not in a position to purchase a year's supply in addition to their daily needs, but there are ways by which, with careful planning and systematic procedures, this can be accomplished.

1. By home canning and buying in season.
2. By over-purchasing. It is suggested that when we do our marketing we "over-purchase" at least ten percent on storable foods that the family ordinarily uses. By careful planning this practice will not upset the budget but can actually be absorbed as part of the weekly purchasing allotment. This additional supply should be designated as storage food and should be used in rotation as new stocks are purchased.

Are we willing to curb our appetites for luxury items and nonessentials long enough to build up our supply from what we save?

3. By taking advantage of food sales. If we watch the markets and take advantage of reliable food sales, we can buy food at reduced prices without sacrificing quality.

A WELL-BALANCED FOOD SUPPLY

A well-balanced diet should come first in any kind of food planning, since the health of the family members is influenced more by the food they eat than by any other factor. Any wise homemaker is aware of the nutritional requirements of a good basic food plan. But just as it is neither wise nor feasible to work out any over-all food storage plan, neither is it possible to suggest a nutritional plan that would satisfy every family's needs. In a general way, however, all of the suggestions that have been given could be modified and adapted to fill every family's nutritional needs.

The following classes of foods for storage will supply the basic nutritional needs.
1. Staples—Wheat, beans, rice, sugar or honey, salt, and vitamins.
2. Dehydrated foods—Eggs, milk, fruit, and vegetables. These augment the staples.
3. Canned foods—Fish, meats, nuts, juices, etc. (These require rotation if not used after a year's time).
4. Water. It is suggested that every family keep on hand a supply of water in addition to that stored in home tanks. Emptied fruit bottles should be filled with water and sterilized. Chlorinated water may be safely stored also.

CONCLUSION

The success of any food storage plan will depend, in large measure, upon our attitude toward it. When we, the mothers and homemakers, can see the wisdom of having a good food storage program, and the foresight and ingenuity to carry it through, there is no doubt that our families will respond enthusiastically and that its success will be assured.

SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life
Lesson 5—Be of Good Cheer Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, lessons 29, 36, and 45.)

Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1970
Southern Hemisphere: July 1970

OBJECTIVE:
To remind the Latter-day Saint woman that the gospel of Christ brings a message of gladness to her home.

INTRODUCTION

"Lift up your head and be of good cheer...." (3 Ne. 1:13.) These are words of the Lord spoken to Nephi, son of Nephi, in an hour of great need. It was a crucial, faith-testing time for those Nephites who had kept faith with the beliefs and traditions of their fathers, for there were many among them who began to say that the time had passed for the prophecies of Samuel to be fulfilled. Nephi, with head bowed in earnest prayer, cried mightily unto the Lord in behalf of the believers. He was in critical need of divine assurance, for there had been a day set apart whereon all who believed in the prophets would be destroyed unless the sign of the Savior's birth was given.

These words came in answer to his humble prayer for that assurance:

Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world that I will fulfill all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of my holy prophets. (3 Ne. 1:13.)

This scripture leads us into the general subject of this discussion. While there is no single lesson in the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study considering this theme specifically, there are many comments and statements in the lessons which are relevant and affirm the fact that we individually and the Church membership collectively have many blessings for which we should be grateful and which warrant our being of good cheer. Throughout the lesson these two questions will be uppermost in mind:

1. How may the words of the Lord "be of good cheer" apply to the Latter-day Saint woman in her home?
2. In a world beset with problems and sin, what should make the Latter-day Saint people, as a collective group, be of good cheer?

Class Question

How would you answer the foregoing two questions at this point in the class discussion?

PROPHECY FULFILLED

Nephi must have lifted his head toward heaven in indescribable joy, his faith rewarded in the knowledge that on the morrow, in the city of David as foretold by prophecy, the Christ child would be born. How great must have been the gratitude of all the believers when, at the going down of the sun, there was no darkness and when a new star appeared in the heavens! Approximately three decades later the risen Lord appeared in person to the more righteous of the Nephites.

Perhaps no scripture which we have is more spiritually impressive than that which records his brief ministry among them. The healing of the sick, blessing of little children, the calling of the twelve disciples with commission and authority to perform all necessary ordinances therewith—surely here was reason for optimism, for increased faith for the people collectively as well as individually.

FOR THE INDIVIDUAL: HERE AND NOW

Class Discussion Questions
1. What does being "of good cheer" mean to you? An international English dictionary defines "cheer" as that which gives comfort, gladness, encouragement, joy.
2. With this definition in mind, how important to family relationships is an atmosphere of gladness or good cheer within the home?
3. In your opinion who is most responsible for setting the tone of emotional atmosphere in the home? Discuss briefly.
4. What may a mother do to maintain an atmosphere of good cheer within the home? Name several things.
5. In what ways may the happy, positive attitude of one woman influence a neighborhood? A number of women were asked to name one specific thing or circumstance of a religious nature or otherwise which could inject a feeling of good cheer into an otherwise unhappy atmosphere. Their replies follow:

1. I suppose you might say that I am a fair-weather bird. Sunshine—just plain sunshine breaking through dark clouds can do more for my emotional attitude than almost anything.
2. I love people and I am always moved emotionally by the loyalty of friends. If I am discouraged or in an unhappy attitude of mind, the good wishes of a friend who has faith in me can lift me almost immediately into a happier mental climate.
3. The laughter of little children is a precious, contagious thing. It is to me the very essence of good cheer.
4. To observe a mother act with great courage although struggling against difficult obstacles fills me with admiration. But it also causes me to evaluate my own blessings. Invariably I am lifted from a state of apathy or self-pity to one of cheerful gratitude.
5. To be loved by someone is to me the great source of comfort and joy. That someone may be husband, child, parent, or a friend.
6. I believe that personal prayer has a greater influence upon my emotional attitude than anything else. Regardless of the situation or the depth of my discouragement, when I rise from my knees the world looks brighter.
7. To see or hear of one of our children performing in accord with the ideals and teachings of our home gives me a special lift of spirit.
8. Very simple things give me pleasure. Just watch me receiving a compliment or wearing a new dress!
9. To give of oneself by way of kindly service to others brings a special kind of personal satisfaction. This service always fills me with a sense of wellbeing and gladness.
10. To overcome a personal weakness and to be aware of a certain inner growth which results gives me an indescribable feeling of joy.

THE COLLECTIVE GROUP: HERE AND NOW

As members of the Church to which we belong we may rightly be of good cheer. In spite of problems and individual human errors, we may be happy and grateful because:

1. The Church operates through the delegated authority of the priesthood of God. Does any other church today have this?
2. We witness the miracle of change that the gospel brings into the lives of individuals.
3. We see the willingness of dedicated members of the Church to serve wherever and whenever called.
4. We know that the missionary program throughout the world is increasingly successful.
5. We observe an increased interest in genealogical research and temple work.
6. We see that material resources make possible the building of temples and churches throughout the world.

More may be added. Discuss briefly.

INTO A DARKNESS

President Clark, who made an intensive study of the Christian Church from its beginning years to the present, refers to the time after the passing of the apostles of Christ when bickerings, jealousies, strife, and contentions grew among the people. This dissension, growing in intensity, developed within a few generations into what we know as the Great Apostasy.

A relevant excerpt by a Professor of Church History, Free Church College, Glasgow, Scotland, is used by President Clark in lesson 29 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study. In the words of Dr. Islay Burns, we read:

It is the year 101 of the Christian era. The last of the apostles is just dead. The rich evening radiance which in his solitary ministry had for thirty years lingered on the earth when all his companions were gone, has at last passed away, and the dark night settles down again. The age of inspiration is over—That peerless century which began with the birth of Christ, and closed with the death of John—and the course of the ages descends once more to the ordinary level of common time.

(Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 29.)

OUT OF THAT DARKNESS

For the better part of two millenniums men groped about, spiritually stumbling one over the other, vainly seeking even a spark of spiritual light, until, on that beautiful spring morning, a century and a third ago [1954], a pillar of light above the brightness of the noonday sun gradually fell from the heavens till it enveloped a young boy in the woods praying mightily for spiritual light. As he looked up he saw two personages standing in the light above him, the Father and the Son: the morning of the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times had come, breaking the darkness of the long generations of spiritual night.

As in the creation light was to replace darkness, day was to follow night.

(The same reference.)

THE FOREGOING IMPORTANT HAPPENING IS INCLUDED IN THIS PARTICULAR LESSON BECAUSE OUT OF THAT DARKNESS CAME LIGHT FOR WHICH THE WHOLE EARTH HAS CAUSE AND ETERNALLY SHALL HAVE CAUSE TO BE GRATEFULLY GLAD.

BECAUSE OF OUR BELIEF

In various lessons of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark speaks of situations and principles which give him hope and encouragement—beliefs for which he is grateful. They should make glad the hearts of all who believe.

Speaking of the final judgment he states: I believe that in his justice and mercy he will give us the maximum reward for our acts, give us all that he can give; and in the reverse, I believe that he will impose upon us the minimum penalty which it is possible for him to impose. (Ibid., lesson 36.)

It is a glorious thing to me to think of the freedom which we may have from the power of the evil one if we but live righteously in Christ Jesus. (Ibid.)

He is reported to have said, and of course this in jest, that Mormons have six senses: the five the ordinary mortals have and a sixth that enables him to believe Mormonism. I am more grateful than I can express for that sixth sense. All down through the ages there have been great bodies of humanity who could not believe the gospel. We are blessed that we know that life is purposeful. [Not all peoples of the world believe this.] We are blessed that we know that before we came we had an existence. We are blessed to know that we came to this earth which was created for the purpose of giving us the experiences of mortality. We are blessed that we know if we observe and keep the commandments of the Lord, our salvation and exaltation is assured. That is part of the sixth sense which we have. We are blessed in that we believe in God, a Personage who has manifested himself in our day, in the great vision of all time.... We are blessed with that testimony, that the Son was in the image of the Father, and that we also are created in his image. That is part of our blessing. We are blessed that God not only spoke in ancient times but that he also speaks today and has spoken, speaking with all of the definiteness and the specifications that he spoke to Israel at Mount Sinai. He does not speak alone in parables as he taught some of the multitudes.... He speaks definitely, I repeat, that all can understand. We are blessed in the faith that we have, the living, active faith which not alone inspires us to live as we should but which gives us power and strength. Our people have defined faith as the moving cause of all action. Faith is not trust, 869 November 1969; faith is a living, and I think an intelligent, force through which God himself performs his great work. We are blessed that, along with that faith, we have the priesthood, the Holy Priesthood of God. We are blessed, I was going to say, beyond all, in our knowledge, our testimony, our witness that Jesus is the Christ. And what a responsibility that knowledge brings to us that he came to earth as a sacrifice to answer for the Fall of Adam. How that was brought about, the Lord has not revealed. I am not sure that if he revealed it we finite minds could understand it. We are blessed with a knowledge that just as all down through history men and women have gone astray, so we know that the Church set up by the Christ and by the Apostles who followed him was not long upon the earth. A few centuries and it had become corrupt. It became an apostate church. This is our witness; this is our testimony. That blessing is one of the blessings that goes with our belief in Mormonism. Surely, mankind never was in a more distressed and uncertain condition than today, the day in which we live. Shall we say that God has stopped his voice, has closed his ears to our prayers, that he no longer cares for or loves us? Rationally, the conclusion to that question that he has would be absurd. So in this day of ours, a little over a hundred years ago, God came, he and his Son, Jesus Christ, and opened up through the Prophet Joseph Smith this last Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. We Mormons are blessed with a testimony and a witness of that. We are also blessed with a testimony and a witness that not only did the powers and the authority come to Joseph but he passed them on down, and today President McKay, as prophet, seer, and revelator, stands for the Church as the mouthpiece of God, and when he speaks through the inspiration of the Lord, as he will when he speaks to the Church, he proclaims what the Lord would have us know today. (Ibid., Lesson 45.)

IN CONCLUSION

Sometimes we overlook the affirmative, gladsome aspect of the gospel in relation to our everyday lives. The gospel is one of optimism, of hope, of glad tidings, of eternal progress. A thoughtful consideration of its principles will reveal that there is a rewarding, promised blessing, whether so stated or not, in all divine commandments. These blessings are inherent in obedience to the law. Perhaps the greatest of these is embraced in the statement of the Father to Moses, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) Surely this, in essence, is saying to each individual of earth: "Lift up your head and be of good cheer" for the vexations of the flesh, the trials and anxieties of earth life are transitory, they are of brief duration, death is not the end of existence, immortality is assured and eternal life is attainable to all who will live the required commandments.... Men are, that they might have joy. (2 Ne. 2:25.)

For Home Doing Help yourself and your family to a home atmosphere of good cheer by reminding yourself and your family of the many blessings of the gospel and of the wonders of life.

A 870 CULTURAL REFINEMENT

Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family
Lesson 4—The Place of Entertainment
Dr. Bruce B. Clark
Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Four by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas

"'Any pleasure which keeps the heart from God will be fatal to the soul.' —Richard Fuller"

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1970
Southern Hemisphere: June 1970

OBJECTIVE; To show that there is a valid place for entertainment and pleasure in life but that these should always be in good taste and in accordance with Church standards.

MUSIC The Telephone, a "mini-opera" by Gian Carlo Menotti (1911- born) American (iItalian)

Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. 

The Webster New World Dictionary states that the word "entertain implies planned amusement or diversion, often with some intellectual appeal." For the past thousand years in the western world, many musical compositions have been written specifically to entertain. Among these especially composed to this end is the opera, introduced in the culturally and musically sophisticated courts of Italy at the turn of the seventeenth century. Certainly the little opera by Gian Carlo Menotti, The Telephone, is an excellent vehicle for providing a few minutes of entertainment to all who hear it. This little opera should appeal to those whose activities are being interrupted by the ringing of the telephone, usually for the most frivolous matters.

INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON

There is a long tradition among some churches, going back through centuries of medieval Christianity, which assumes that God is not pleased when people enjoy themselves with the pleasures of this world.

Under such a philosophy money is regarded as evil, love between men and women is thought of as tainted with sin, art and recreation are looked upon with suspicion. 871 November 1969 Through centuries of history some churches have banned dancing and drama as forbidden evils, some have legislated that their religious leaders must not marry, and some have prescribed heavy, drab clothing as the only dress suitable to express religious devotion. Philosophically a whole intellectual movement known as asceticism flourished for centuries advocating strict self-denial as a means of spiritual self-discipline. Severe "mortifications of the flesh" were practiced, apparently under the supposition that God is somehow pleased with human self-punishment. This is not, however, the position of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Church believes that God wants people to be happy and enjoy themselves, in this life as well as in the life to come. "Men are, that they might have joy" (2 Ne. 2:25) is one of the great principles expressed in The Book of Mormon. Money sometimes does promote evil but need not do so if used for good purposes. Love between men and women sanctified by marriage provides genuine happiness. Art and recreation when in good taste abundantly enrich life and are in harmony with the fulness of the gospel plan. The key words in the preceding sentence are "when in good taste." From the beginning The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has not only permitted but actually sponsored extensive programs in music, drama, dance, literature, and athletics. Always, however, emphasis has been upon encouraging refinement, wholesomeness, and good taste. 872 Discuss the term "good taste." What does it include? What are the limitations? Reading, as millions of readers know, provides an inexhaustible and wonderfully varied storehouse of entertainment. In addition to all of the aesthetic values of literature and all its rich insights into people, ideas, and problems we should never forget that one of its great and valid functions is to entertain. We live in a world of pressures and problems. How wonderful that we can draw upon literature for the relaxation and delight it provides in addition to its many other values! From Aristophanes in ancient Greek times to writers such as E. B. White, James Thurber, and Al Capp in our own century, every era has had its great humorists. Thousands of delightful stories, novels, poems, dramas, and essays are available to illustrate the rich entertainment literature can provide. In the five preceding years, and this year, too, we have studied "serious" literature concerned with problems, values, ideals, etc. Now in this one lesson we want to emphasize the power of literature to entertain. The lesson consists of the following four selections: (1) Stephen Vincent Benét's short story "The Devil and Daniel Webster," (2) Ring Lardner's short story "Haircut," (3) "Baker's Blue-Jay Yarn" as excerpted from A Tramp Abroad by Mark Twain, and (4) a discussion of and brief excerpts from the essays of Charles Lamb. Since each of the four selections is too long to print in this Magazine, they will need to be studied from the textbook. All four selections are also available in many libraries throughout the world if readers do not have access to the textbook. "THE DEVIL AND DANIEL WEBSTER" This, the longest of the four selections, is an excellent example of literature at its entertaining best—delightful, compelling, clever, yet also very wholesome, and rich with meaning. Cleverness of some kind can be found in almost every sentence, making the story great fun when read silently and even greater fun when read aloud. Why was the story written? First, to eulogize Daniel Webster, making him emerge out of the pages of history as a vivid folkhero of America—courageous, dynamic, idealistic, eloquent, and bigger-than-life in the Paul Bunyan tradition. Second, to glorify the American ideal of freedom and human dignity—the beautiful dream of America. Third, simply to delight the reader, to entertain as literature and literature alone can do. Some works of literature live primarily through their message. Some live primarily through their power to entertain. When we have important meaning combined with wonderful entertainment, as in this story, then we have a great story. Because "The Devil and Daniel Webster" illustrates so excellently this combination of delightful entertainment and wholesome meaning it has been chosen as the feature selection in this lesson on the place of entertainment in our lives. When discussing the Lesson Department story the class leader should emphasize both of these aspects. The beautiful section of seriousness near the end when Daniel Webster talks about ideals of freedom and about the dignity and glory of mankind is one of the finest passages Benét ever wrote. Note, for example, this paragraph describing Daniel Webster's speech to the jury in defense of Jabez Stone: He started off in a low voice, though you could hear every word. They say he could call on the harps of the blessed when he chose. And this was just as simple and easy as a man could talk. But he didn't start out by condemning or reviling. He was talking about the things that make a country a country and a man a man. And he began with the simple things that everybody's known and felt—the freshness of a fine morning when you're young, and the taste of food when you're hungry, and the new day that's every day when you're a child. He took them up and he turned them in his hands. They were good things for any man. But without freedom they sickened. And when he talked of those enslaved, and the sorrows of slavery, his voice got like a big bell. He talked of the early days of America and the men who had made those days. It wasn't a spreadeagle speech, but he made you see it. He admitted all the wrong that had ever been done. But he showed how, out of the wrong and the right, the suffering and the starvations, something new had come. And everybody had played a part in it, even the traitors. The next two paragraphs are also beautifully meaningful. Then the story returns for the last three pages to a lighter tone and one of the most interesting endings to be found in the literature of America. "HAIRCUT" This is included in this lesson for two reasons: first, simply because it is such an excellent story, and second, because it shows how fun can become evil if it is had at the expense of other people. Although the story is written very cleverly, providing amusement all the way through, most readers will realize that underneath the entertainment the author has a serious purpose: to show how twisted and cruel humor can be when it causes other people to suffer. "Haircut" is the story of a barber who talks in an uninterrupted stream of words all the time he is whacking off the hair of a stranger who has come to the barber shop.

The barber talks mostly of a man in the town named Jim Kendall who recently was killed in an hunting "accident." Although the barber repeatedly refers to Jim as a man with a great sense of humor, just bubbling over with the fun of playing practical jokes on other people, we gradually realize that Jim's sense of humor is terribly perverted. He laughs loudly at the embarrassment and suffering of other people, especially when he can cause the embarrassment and suffering himself—such things as sending anonymous postal cards to men asking them where their wives were when they were out of town the other day or sending a feebleminded boy to get a left-handed monkey wrench. The man is really twisted and cruel instead of funny in his sense of "humor." And the barber is hardly better. Although perhaps not quite so cruel as Jim, the barber apparently is even more stupid because he doesn't even comprehend all that is going on. In fact, one of the best things about the story "Haircut" as a work of art is that it is written so skillfully that the barber tells a story he doesn't understand in such a way that the reader fully understands. As a story "Haircut" is clever and entertaining, however, humor is never really humor if it must be had at the cost of ridicule or injury to someone else. As our children learn in Primary, "Fun is not fun unless it's fun for everyone." And in adult words, "Entertainment that is not uplifting can turn thoughtless indulgence into real degradation."

"BAKER'S BLUE-JAY YARN"

This delightful excerpt from Mark Twain's A Tramp Abroad is also included mostly as an illustration of the wholesome entertainment that literature can give. Mark Twain, one of our great masters of style and humor, describes animals that can talk. Perhaps space will permit just a couple of paragraphs as samples of his unique style and humor:

There's more to a blue-jay than any other creature. He has got more moods and more different kinds of feelings than other creatures; and, mind you, whatever a blue-jay feels, he can put into language. And no mere commonplace language, either, but rattling, out-and-out book-talk—just bristling with metaphor, too—just bristling! And as for command of language—why, you never see a blue-jay stuck for a word. No man ever did. They just boil out of him!

And another thing: I've noticed a good deal, and there's no bird, or cow, or anything that uses as good grammar as a blue-jay. You may say a cat uses good grammar. Well, a cat does—but you let a cat get excited, once; you let a cat get to pulling fur with another cat on a shed, nights, and you'll hear grammar that will give you the lockjaw. Ignorant people think it's the noise which fighting cats make that is so aggravating, but it ain't so; it's the sickening grammar they use.

Now I've never heard a jay use bad grammar but very seldom; and when they do, they are as ashamed as a human; they shut right down and leave. You may call a jay a bird. Well, so he is, in a measure—because he's got feathers on him, and don't belong to no church, perhaps—but otherwise he is just as much a human as you be.

And I'll tell you for why. A jay's gifts, and instincts, and feelings, and interests, cover the whole ground. A jay hasn't got any more principle than a Congressman. A jay will lie, a jay will steal, a jay will deceive, a jay will betray; and four times out of five, a jay will go back on his solemnest promise. The sacredness of an obligation is a thing which you can't cram into no blue-jay's head.

Now, on top of all this, there's another thing: a jay can outswear any gentleman in the mines. You think a cat can swear. Well, a cat can; but you give a blue-jay a subject that calls for his reserve powers, and where is your cat? Don't talk to me—I know too much about this thing.

And there's yet another thing; in the one little particular of scolding—just good, clean, out-and-out scolding—a blue-jay can lay over anything, human or divine. Yes, sir, a jay is everything that a man is. A jay can cry, a jay can laugh, a jay can feel shame, a jay can reason and plan and discuss, a jay likes gossip and scandal, a jay has got a sense of humor, a jay knows when he is an ass just as well as you do—maybe better. If a jay ain't human, he better take in his sign that's all.

CHARLES LAMB AND THE INFORMAL ESSAY

Although space does not permit the printing of a complete essay by Lamb it would be unfair to end this lesson on entertainment without making at least a few comments on the writer who is probably the most delightful essayist English letters has ever produced—Charles Lamb (1775-1834). For all who will take the time to discover Lamb with his inimitable style and ineffable charm, hours of leisurely, delightful reading are guaranteed. In spite of a good deal of tragedy in his personal life and of drudgery in his professional life, Lamb had a sense of humor that bubbled up in all that he said and wrote. As he plays up and down the whole scale of humor we feel his humanity, his genial warmth, the endless charm of his prose style, and the range of his keen, curious mind.

Although he has a great deal to say on a wonderful variety of subjects his chief aim is to entertain, not to instruct or persuade. And entertain he surely does, captivating readers with the magic charm of his matchless style in almost every paragraph that he wrote. Sometimes in his essays he is serious. For example, in "Dream Children" he lovingly talks about the children he yearns for but never had. In "Old China," one of the loveliest of his essays, he reminisces about his youth when possessions were scanty but joys were spontaneous and dreams were free. And in "Modern Gallantry" he regrets that men tend to be more gallant with young or wealthy women than with women who are homely or poor or old. Men should treat all women with the same gallantry, he feels—just because they are women and men are their protectors.

As a brief sample of Lamb's exquisite style, we print the opening lines of "A Chapter on Ears":

I have no ear. Mistake me not reader, nor imagine that I am by nature destitute of those exterior twin appendages, hanging ornaments, and (architecturally speaking) handsome volutes to the human capital.

Better my mother had never borne me. I am, I think, rather delicately than copiously provided with those conduits; and I feel no disposition to envy the mule for his plenty, or the mole for her exactness, in those ingenious labyrinthine inlets—those indispensable side-intelligencers...

When therefore I say that I have no ear, you will understand me to mean—for music.

CONCLUSION In the foregoing discussion and selections it is the objective of this lesson to point out that entertainment in the form of good, wholesome humor has a valid place in our lives. While the very word "humor" has meant different things to different centuries, it is never destructive or malicious. As Louis Untermeyer has written, "It does not fly to assault the mind, but laughs its way into the heart. Humor is healing, wholesome, recreative, and rejuvenating." (From "A 'Treasury of Laughter," selected and edited by Louis Untermeyer.)

ERRATUM In the Cultural Refinement Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom, July Relief Society Magazine, page 556, Woodrow Wilson is listed as the twenty-seventh President of the United States. Woodrow Wilson was the twenty-eighth President.

Happiness is found in total electric living
UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
Clezent Leeiley MUSIC COMPANY
'Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors''
We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies
Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos
Yes! We Ship All Over the World.

NEW ADDRESS:
65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
Phone: 364-6518

Instruments
876 TIPPY-TOE
When I was young and wondering, I thought the days were long,
For there was ample time to loiter. Time for play and time for song.
Later, days seemed even longer when I wished for them to pass.
I yearned to be eighteen, and spent some time before a looking glass.
Days turned into years quite slowly, then they started turning fast.
Soon I wanted to restrain them as they left me in their past.
Now the days are short as hours... rapid come and rapid go.
Weeks are briefer all the time, passing by on tippy-toe.

—Pearle M. Olsen

New For Vase
O><-A0=-DIN Sheet music for "PETER THE PINE TREE"
A charming, new Christmas story in song form Ideal for young performers
Mail RHODA W. BONHAM $1.00
974 Simpson Avenue to: Salt Lake City, Utah 84106

Learn a Career with a Future
Rose Elder Ada Mortensen We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment.
Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession.
Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved

Send now for our brochure
322 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201

THE REACHES The sea rolls over, rubbing a briny back on the shore.
Small bubbles burst with a sigh. Wind whirls through the treetops, and full of presence leaves chatter.
Thunder rips through a gather of clouds unleashing the rain.
Wherever silence opens, sound rushes in, welcome, and all held-back riches tumble forth.

—Bernice Ames

877 November 1969

STORY IBOOIU Gingerbread House It's fun! Now the whole family can participate in assembling and decorating their own Gingerbread House...
The same darling little house known and loved by millions, from the famous story of Hansel and Gretel.
Your Dunferd's Gingerbread House package contains: Walls, roof (made of genuine gingerbread) and instructions for easy assembly, plus decorating material. This year add a Dunford Gingerbread House to your home. On sale at leading department and food stores throughout Utah; or order direct from:
Dunford Bakeries Inc.
2148 South 9th East
Phone 486-7476
Salt Lake City, Utah 84106

Dunford BAKERS | THE HOUSE | THE WHOLE FAMILY BUILDS!

Plan Your Vacation with Us Annual Tours ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego Call or write for itineraries
James Travel Tours
2230 Scenic Drive
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
Phone: 466-8723

New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume.
Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service.

Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50
Yearly Index Included

Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed.
Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah:
Zone 1 - $.55 Zone 2 - $.55 Zone 3 - $.60 Zone 4 - $.75
Zone 5 - $.75 Zone 6 - $.85 Zone 7 - $.95 Zone 8 - $1.05

1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892

878 101 96 94 93 92 Diidkday Congratulations
Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday.

Mrs. Martha Jane Chappel Head Farmington, New Mexico
Mrs. Ruth Hopewell Orton 91 Hucknall, Nottinghamshire, England
Mrs. Mary Ann (Mayme) Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah
Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah
Mrs. Christine Petrar Petersen Kiesel Manti, Utah
Mrs. Evelyn Walters Koehler Menlo Park, California
Mrs. Martha Amanda Barron Norton Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Eda Picot Martin Anaheim, California
Mrs. Helene Jackstein Sahm Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Annie Matilda Appleyard Rothe Pleasant Grove, Utah
Mrs. Mary Francis Rodeback Smith Heber City, Utah
Mrs. Emily Peterson Whitehead Grace, Idaho
Mrs. Adeline Loreania Peterson Bone Garland, Utah
Mrs. Mary (May) Peterson Brown Mesa, Arizona
Mrs. Mary Maddock Evans Bow Island, Alberta; Canada
Mrs. Nannie Dickerson T. Hackworth St. Anthony, Idaho
Mrs. Mary Matilda Gill Poulter Idaho Falls, Idaho
'Mrs. Roberta Flake Clayton Mesa, Arizona
Mrs. Mary Hafen Leavitt St. George, Utah
Mrs. Fanny Wilhelmine E. Metalmann Bedford, Wyoming
Mrs. Etta Langstaff Miller Shelley, Idaho

80 Mrs. Annabelle Coon Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Josie O. Hontz Alleman Springville, Utah
Mrs. Mary Ann Faddies Farrell Coalville, Utah
Mrs. Emma Jane Robins Herbert Salina, Utah
Mrs. Esther Wilson Lewis Mesa, Arizona
Mrs. Florence Ellen Dunford Newton Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Mary Ann Hubbard White Idaho Falls, Idaho
Mrs. Mary Ann Billington Booth Provo, Utah
Mrs. Rozina Bramwell Rexburg, Idaho
Mrs. Catherine Hall Brenchley Wellsville, Utah
Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Chard Clark Ogden, Utah
Mrs. Trena Christina Fuller Gronning Delta, Utah
Mrs. Sylvia Abigail Beecher Hadfield Layton, Utah
Mrs. Ethelyn Dowdle Kingsford Hillsboro, Oregon
Mrs. Rose Grosjean Knutti Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Hattie Milligan Huntington Park, California
Mrs. Jeanette Morrell Ogden, Utah
Mrs. Emma Engle Powell Salem, Utah
Mrs. Mary Jane O'Brien Simmons Burley, Idaho
Mrs. Georgine Shiner Snow Provo, Utah
Mrs. Sarah Edna Palmer H. Teeples Salt Lake City, Utah
Mrs. Emma Burbidge Turnbow Kamas, Utah

November 1969

NEW BOOKCLUB | BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB featuring WITH NO MINIMUM PURCHASE FREE BOOKLET "AS A MAN THINKETH" 1. SPECIAL ON VOL. V OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Regular $3.25 Special $2.60
Our OF THE DEST ROOKS =}
|) imme Bil OUTOR THE BEST BROOKS o_o a NOP TUMNRRE HOOKS | \1\ _coerrepeanenennrscodl 2. Vols. 1-3 ea. $1.95
4. Art of Home
6.

Jesus the Christ (Vol. 4 Out of Print) Making Hoole $4.95 James Talmage $3.50

3. You & Your Child's  
5. Thee Wed  
7. Doc. & Cov. World Landeau $3.95 Rex Sidmore $2.95 Commentary $4.95

BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB
626 'H' Street Salt-Lake City, Utah 84103

880 DESERET BOOK COMPANY  
44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or  
777 South Main, Orange, California 92668

Please send me copies of  
PROPHECIES AND PROPHETIC PROMISES FROM THE DOCTRINE & COVENANTS  
Total Cost $  
enclose check [-] money order [ ] Charge established account [ ]

Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange.

Nov. R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah

Put the magic of Sugarplum Land in your meals!  
Suggests this simply delicious dessert for family raves: FRESH APPLE PIE TIME!

Slit top crust to allow steam to escape. Bake in hot (450°) oven for 15 minutes; decrease heat to 375° and continue baking another 30 minutes or until nicely browned.

For final 10 minutes of baking time, sprinkle pie generously with granulated sugar. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream or a slice of cheese for cheese lovers.

Peel, core, and slice apples. Mix with sugar, cinnamon, and tapioca and let mixture stand while preparing crust. Prepare crust for 9" two-crust pie. Fill bottom crust with fruit mixture; dot with 2 tablespoons butter. Cover with top shell. Flute edges to seal in juice and either prick or cover with foil where necessary.

Oven heat will seal bottom crust in first minutes of hot baking so juice cannot penetrate.

Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas.

U AND I SUGAR COMPANY  
Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.