Of Interest to Women
Lalene H. Hart
I have several household appliances which I enjoy using, but how can I keep the copper finishes bright without scouring?
There is no satisfactory short cut to keeping copper in good condition. The simplest thing to use is a metal polish, or an acid and salt. If the latter treatment is used the metal should be carefully rinsed with clean water and dried. An extra brightness may be obtained by then rubbing with rottenstone and oil. Never use a harsh abrasive for cleaning polished metals. If the copper parts of appliances are lacquered they may be kept in good condition by wiping with a cloth dipped in kerosene. Brass may be treated the same as copper.
To keep paint from drying after the can has been opened cover with a sheet of waxed paper and pour melted paraffin over it. The paint will keep indefinitely and the paper and wax are easily removed when desired.
Scrim curtains that get dingy and dirty looking, or borders that have faded, dye with a soap dye a little darker shade, or any shade that matches the color scheme of the room.
A small board such as a bread or cake board, covered with oilcloth laid on or near the stove while cooking, is a great convenience on which to lay small utensils such as spoons, knives, forks, etc. It is best to glue the oilcloth to the board.
Instead of buying jars or cans for storing groceries use the cylindrical cartons in which cereals are put up. Cover this with plain paper left from papering a room. Paste labels on, then varnish, being careful to press edges of paper so they will not curl. These receptacles are light, easily handled and readily cleaned.
I have better results when making cake icings if I use a little white karo syrup in place of cream of tartar or vinegar. It may be used in candies also?Mrs. G. A. S. Douglas, Arizona
People who use barley coffee in a percolator complain of it boiling over. This will not happen if a piece of butter the size of


a pea is added to the boiling water. Stir the grounds often in the cup at the top of the pot, as the grounds fill the hole. This causes it to run out from under the lid.?Mrs. E. P., Ogden, Utah.
To have lemon or cream pies that are perfectly shaped and are baked evenly, bake the crust on the outside of the pie plate upside-down.?Mrs. J. W. S., Ogden, Utah.
I have found when buying new pillows or washing the ticks of old ones, that a cover should be made to protect the tick from any substance that discolors or stains them. These covers can be made from ordinary pillow cases only place buttons at the open end to completely cover the pillow. No matter how clean the coverings and the rest of the bed may be if the pillow ticks underneath are soiled or unprotected it gives a feeling of uncleanliness. These covers can be washed as often as necessary for sanitation.?Mrs. M. R. M., Salt Lake City, Utah.
To clean the stove pipe and chimney flue of soot burn a piece of an old automobile tire about the size of an ordinary stick of wood used as fuel in the range. Open all draughts and you will be surprised at the cleanliness of the flue. This should not be done while cooking because the heat is too intense.?Mrs. E. B., St. George, Utah.