Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Honored
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon has been signally honored by the American Women's Association, a club of 5,000 business and professional women. A monster mass meeting was held by this organization on the evening of March 18, which was addressed by "distinguished speakers of national importance." The letter informing Mrs. Cannon that she had been selected from Utah, states that the purpose of the meeting was to honor the achievements of women in business and professions, and to elect to honorary membership in the Association a business or professional woman from each state in the union.
In communicating the desire of the organization to name her, we quote the following paragraph from the letter to Mrs. Cannon:
"May we have the honor of naming you on this occasion as the woman from Utah whose success and influence have been most far reaching? An acceptance on your part involves no financial obligations of any kind, now or at any other time. It will, however, make it possible for you to offer to the young business and professional women of your state who come to New York, contact with successful women here. It will also afford them the background of our new clubhouse. Nearly $2,000,000 of stock has been sold of the $3,000,000 necessary before we start to build."
The Magazine congratulates Mrs. Cannon on the honor that has come to her. Naturally we are glad that this honor has fallen to a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, and to a woman who has held so many places of responsibility during her life. We are happy to add to the record of her other achievements the fact that she is one of the outstanding mothers of the State of Utah. While this time recognition has come to her because of her achievements in the business and professional world, it is not long ago that she received two prizes, one for having the largest family of any woman in her ward, and a second for being the mother of twins. We are happy that national recognition has been accorded this outstanding mother.