Prohibition
It is likely that some concern is being felt by persons interested in prohibition because of the recent activities in Congress aimed at the modification of the Volstead Act. There is a widespread belief that women are particularly interested in prohibition. This belief is supported by such leadership as was given the cause by Frances Willard in early days, and by the activities of the Women's Christian Temperance Union at a later period.
To be sure, the recent polls conducted by a group of newspapers are not reassuring. It would seem from results that a goodly number of women neglected to go to the polls. We say neglected because we think it quite impossible that any great number of women have been won over by the arguments of the opponents of the cause.
While those opposed to the present law are producing statistics and arguments that are designed to show that it is a failure, we urge our readers not to grow faint-hearted, but to examine carefully the arguments and statistics presented by the proponents of the cause, and note the progress that has been made, discouraging as some features relating to enforcement appear to be.
One thing is very evident in relation to this matter and that is that we cannot rest on our oars, but must be active, continually, for the enforcement of the law. In 1920, we were in a convention where some persons pretended to believe that prohibition was a dead issue. At present it is showing marvelous vitality for a cause that was regarded as needing only passing attention.
While we like to feel that women all over the United States are interested in prohibition, and that much responsibility rests with them in relation to this matter, we feel that Latter-day Saint women should be especially interested, as they have been trained to keep the Word of Wisdom for a goodly number of years. This is the Mother's issue of the Magazine. Surely every mother is interested in protecting her sons and daughters from so destructive a thing as intoxicants.
We are including in this article a few paragraphs from the Dearborn Independent, which should give encouragement to persons who believe in prohibition.
PROHIBITION CAN BE ENFORCED
Ask the people of Schoharie County
"Travel where you may in Schoharie County, in New York state, you will not hear it contended even by the bitterest enemies of prohibition that the law cannot be enforced. These people give vent to their feelings in another way, namely, by cursing the law and the officers and citizens who enforce it. For the Volstead Act is enforced in that county, and let there be no mistake


about it, Schoharie county holds itself up as an example of the fact that the National Prohibition Law can be enforced as well as any other law?as well as the laws governing larceny, assault, or murder.
"The crusade to close up the places where intoxicating liquors were sold in this county began about a year ago, when Albert Baker, a district attorney; Preston Kennedy, a husky evangelist preacher; George Oliver, a deputy sheriff, accompanied by a Federal officer with a search warrant, entered one of the largest and most popular hotels in the county, took possession of the bar and liquors, arrested the owner and proprietor, urged and procured a speedy arraignment of him in the Federal court, which resulted in his plea of guilty and a fine, and the commencement of padlock proceedings against him, as a result of which he disposed of the hotel and left the state.
"Under the present ownership and management the bar and bar fixtures have been removed, and in their place are soda fountains and ice cream tables patronized by children and women. As a booze place the hotel is a thing of the past.
"The result of this raid and cleaning up was that dealers in illicit liquors began to sit up and take notice.
"Section 22 of the Volstead Act provides as follows:
"An action to enjoin any nuisance defined in this title may be brought in the name of the United States by the Attorney-General of the United States or by any United States Attorney or any prosecuting attorney of any state or any subdivision thereof or by the commissioner or his deputies or assistants. Such action shall be brought and tried as an action in equity and may be brought in any court having jurisdiction to hear and determine equity cases. If it is made to appear by affidavits or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or judge in vacation, that such nuisance exists, a temporary writ of injunction shall forthwith issue restraining the defendant from conducting or permitting the continuance of such nuisance until the conclusion of the trial.'
"Under this provision of the Volstead Act the District Attorney began a general crusade to make the county absolutely dry. He personally conducted raids and searches, aided at times by his son Richard, a senior in Harvard, during the vacation period, and by local and Federal officers, at times engaging in personal encounters, for the purpose of obtaining evidence upon which to base the injunction, or padlock action under the section quoted.
"At the county seat, Schoharie village, there had existed for a half-century on the main street, alongside the only bank in the village, directly across from the court-house, a saloon which has been wide open, not only during the days when the law permitted, but even on Sundays, long after the Volstead Act was passed.
EDITORIAL 241
"On a late Saturday evening last April this same preacher, the district attorney, his son, two live-wire young Federal officers, and two state troopers, entered the barroom of the saloon, took possession of it, searched the bar and the customers present, found intoxicating liquor not only in the bar but on the patrons, arrested the proprietor and his bartender, caused them to be prosecuted in the Federal court, and with the evidence brought an action in equity, and in less than two months had the building closed. It is now being used as an electrical store and shop."
The Dearborn Independent, March 27, 1926.