[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE AT OGDEN. | Author: Unknown]

WOMAN’S SUFFRAGE AT OGDEN.

	The monthly meeting of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association of Ogden convened at the County
Court House, July 1st 1889.
	Prest. E. Y. Standford called the assembly to 
order.	
	Prayer by the chaplain Mrs. Odell.
	The minutes of the previous meeting were read
and approved.
	Prof. L.D. Edwards rendered the solo, “Man
the Life Boat,” in excellent style.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was next introduced to the
assembly. The lady ably handled that important
subject, “Woman’s Rights.”
	At the close of her highly interesting lecture, a
hearty vote of thanks was tendered Mrs. Wells.
	Prof. Edwards favored the audience with an
instrumental solo, performed with his usual skill	
	Mr. Scott Anderson next delivered a short ad-
dress.
	Meeting adjourned for one month. A full at-
tendance at the next meeting is earnestly solicited
	The Suffrage Association held an interesting
meeting Friday afternoon, August 2, in the court-
house. Mrs. Hilliard delivered an interesting ad-
dress on woman’s work, her influence in the world
for good, and the result of her labors through these
organizations in suppressing intemperance and its
attendant evils. Five minute speeches were made
by Mrs. Pingree, Williams, Careswell, Miss Can-
field and others. These ladies esteemed it their
duty to enter their protest against the increase of
saloons, the establishment of gambling dens,
variety shows and houses of ill-fame, and by a
petition would remonstrate against these evils and
ask the City officials of Ogden to enforce the laws
to crush them out of existence.
	The Misses McGaw delighted the audience in
their rendition of a song and duet, when the meet-
ing adjourned for one month.
							Aggie Herrick.
					Assistant Sec’y.

	Mrs. Wells address was published in the
Woman’s Exponent of July 15.


[Column 1]
W. S. A. Meeting.
	The Utah W. S. A. held its regular meeting
in the Social Hall on Friday July 19, Vice
Pres. Mrs. Nellie R. Webber in the chair.  On
the platform at her side the Ch. of the Ex.
Com. Mrs Ann E. Groosbeck, The Secretary
Mrs. C. H. Horne and the Treasurer Miss
Margie Dwyer were also present, Miss V. Neb-
eker furnished music on the organ, and a
prayer was offered by the Chaplain Dr. E. S.
Barney.  Minutes of foumer meeting were
read by the Secretary and also the revised By
Laws were read and voted upon, names of new
members presented and some micellaneous busi-
ness transacted.  A letter was read by the

[Column 2]
Secretary from the President Mrs. Margaret
Caine tendering her resignation, which was
formally accepted and a motion was made and
seconded that Mrs. L. D. Alder be acting
President the remainder of the year.
	The Chairman then called upon Mrs. S. M.
Kimball who had just recently returned from
the East to address the audience.
	Mrs. Kimball made some telling remarks
on the suffrage question, and then took up
the subject of dress reform. She had visited
the rooms of Annie Jenness Miller in New
York, and had examined into the details of
the matter somewhat deeply, and her remarks
were interesting and the subject as she pre-
sented it worthy the careful attention and in-
vestigation of all concerned in the future
welfare and well-being of mankind.
		MRS. E. B. WELLS.
		ADDRESS TO U. W. S. A.
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen.—
Last night in pondering over the subject of an
address to this assembly which I had been re-
quested to make to-day, these words came
forcibly to my mind:

		I live for those who love me
		For those who know me true,
		For the heaven that smiles above me
		And the good that I can do.

	Otherwise in the midst of my multiplicity of
duties I should have given it up. If my ex-
perience or my views are of any benefit to those
less acquainted with the franchise, or who
have not had the same opportunities for ob-
taining information on these points, then I am
willing to do my best to help—hoping that I
may do some little grain of good.
	I do not, and never could understand why
sensible women with mature ideas should pro-
test against woman’s suffrage; the ballot for
women as well as men seems to me to be en-
tirely consistent with the principles of justice
and equity, and I cannot comprehend why
men need the franchise more than women;
those who believe that all men support and
protect all women, might say so, but every
woman that has kept her eyes open in this
world knows that this is not the case.
	There are to be sure honorable exceptions,
but it is not the general rule—think of it ye
who may! Women have quite as much at
stake in all matters pertaining to “life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness" as men, and
they belong to the people, that is in our country
it has been so declared. The preamble of the
constitution says, “We the people of the
United States in order to form a more perfect
union, establish justice, ensure domestic tran-
quility, provide for the common defense, pro-
mote the general welfare, and secure the bless-
ings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity,
do ordain and establish this constitution for
the United States of America.” Certainly
women were a part and included in this great
body politic. They desire justice and are the
ones who do the most to promote domestic
tranquility, and when it says “for ourselves
and our posterity,” who is more interested than
the mother? In the days when these words
were written there is not the least doubt that
the women did their full share of the work,
and helped carry the burdens. We who have
been pioneers in colonizing can appreciate
something of their duties and the cares that must
necessarily have fallen upon these early settlers
of America.
	Are men really so much more capable than
their mothers, or wives, or sisters? That is a
question still open to discussion, and many
learned men and women have argued it in print
under the title of “sex in brain". and as far as
co-education is concerned where young men
and young women have been trained in
the same pursuits and studies, and by the
same methods, the girls quite frequently

[Column 3]
carry off the honors; which was notably the
case recently in San Francisco—as you who
read the papers must know.
	Article I. of the amendment to the con-
stitution says: “The right of the people to
peacably assemble and petition for a redress
of grievances, etc.” That right is one that
I think has never been denied to women,
though quite often the redress sought has not
been obtained. In this women are recognized
as a part of the people. But as we often say
in regard to the scriptnres, so it is in politics.
Man means woman in certain places, but when
the divines and law-givers want it to mean
man alone—they so decide. And so they con-
tinue to deal out to women, as they feel in-
clined, a little here and a little there, or none
at all as the case may be, place and power in
public life.
	I know some advocates of woman suffrage
say, if men will not give us our just rights—
equal privileges,we will not accept a part; we
want the whole loaf and not crumbs, but the
principle a little at a time is certainly better
than none at all—and when any new revolu-
tion in affairs comes gradually the people are
better prepared to take hold of it. Here is a
pretty poetical illustration:

	Little by little the torrent said
	As it swept along its narrow bed,
		Chafing in wrath and pride,
	Little by little and day by day,
	And with every wave it bore away
	A grain of sand from the banks which lay
		Like granite walls on either side

Whereupon you will readily, see I an in favor
of taking what we can get, let it be ever so
grudgingly given. The great point to be
gained now, is to prepare women for the polit-
ical privileges that are bound to come, if they
do come slowly.
	We often say the mothers need it, and that
is true, there are I believe more arguments in
favor of mothers than any other class, though
I would not state it positively; but there are
women and I have instances one or two,
especially in my mind, who are not mothers,
who are and have been public benefactors, and
I think how much more they could have ac-
complished if they had been privileged with
the political and I might almost say social
rights of men. They have been deprived of
motherhood such as has been vouchsafed to
others, perhaps for the greater good they have
accomplished as mothers of peoples.
	There is much that might be said definitely
on this subject, but there is one other of vital
importance I would like to touch, and that is
the mother’s right to her child—it is said of
one woman that when she heard that in the
State of Rhode Island—the father could ap-
point a guardian for his child and deprive the
mother of all right to it if he so chose, she
said: “Why do not all the women of America
cry aloud against this terrible injustice to
mothers?” Many of the states have had their
laws more or less modified in this respect, since
women began agitating equal rights, but much
injustice in this regard still exists.
	Next on the programme was a song very
sweetly rendered by Miss E. Morehead.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT M. D..
Some reasons for women studying politics.
	“Politics is the science of government, that
part of ethics which has to do with the regu-
lation and government of a nation or state.
The preservation of its safety, peace and pros-
perity, the defense of its existence and rights
against foreign control or conquest, the aug-
mentation of its strength and resources, and
the protection of its citizens in their rights,
with the perservation and improvement of their


[Column 1]
﻿morals.” The potency and pith of every line
n the above quotation find full application in
he home circle, the miniature type of all or-
ganizations, where women preside conjointly
with their husbands or should do so. If
women can be educated in and have a voice in
the government of the city, county, state or
territory in which they reside they would be a
mighty factor in restraining the rise and
flourishing of the myriads of dens of temp-
tation which now bristle from every corner of
all great cities, alluring the youthful and
curious mind into paths which lead to lives
not only pernicious to the welfare, peace and
prosperity of the community, but add to the
burdens of the moral and law-abiding citizens,
by forcing them to contribute of their hard
earnings in taxes to support prisons and jails,
in which the lawless are herded in idleness
usually, because useless and dangerous if at
liberty. Women I believe would be swift to
use every power vested in them, that would
preserve their sons and daughters in the paths
of truth and honor, and establish them in lives
of usefulness and intelligence. Their watch
care and solicitude over their home circles
would stimulate them to extra diligence to get
time to cast their votes, or lift their voices for
honest men and women as officers and against
all measures which endangered the morals of
their families. Where is the science of govern-
ment more required and capable of eternal and
far reaching good than in the home circle where
the seeds of justice, morality and law abiding
instincts are planted in young hearts yet at
the mothers knee? There would be better
home government, parents recognizing and
respecting the rights of their children and the
children the authority and instruction of
parents and of each other. The study of the
code of equal rights will benefit every one
whether they ever become voters or not. The
study of politics is a means of development
and therefore it is important that women pur-
sue it, and get a good understanding of it in
all its phases and make obsolete the favorite
objection of some men to women in politics,
that she does not know enough. Victor
Hugo has said the 19th century is the century
of women. “Revolutions go not backward but
forward,” and those of progress are growing
more rapid continually and cutting a wider
swath in the field of musty traditions and
deep worn ruts of thought and habit that have
so long environed women within the narrowest
limits possible. The spirit of the century set
its seal in the foreheads of a few brave souls of
womanly form, whose visions and realizing
sense of equity and justicew as of such strength,
brilliance and fixedness of purpose as to sink
into as deep insignificance all contemptuous
epithets as “strong minded, soured old maid
dissappointed in love” etc. as the moon pales be-
fore the brightness of the noonday sun. The
pioneers of all innovations have been strong or
never would the walls of traditions and old
customs have been broken down and swept
away, and a smooth path beaten for the feet of
weaker ones to follow. When great ends are
to be achieved, a persistence and perseverance
of purpose without a shadow of turning is the
only means of gaining victory. What is this
spirit of the 19th century, that is inspiring
men as well as women with a determined spirit
of resistance. Which says we are all equally the
children of the God of this earth and He
created it for us all to enjoy. Is it not the in-
nate spirit of Justice. Every one born
in the United States whose parents are citizens,
is a citizen by right of birth, but a birth does
not constitute or make the person a voter. To
vote is a privilege and not a right which has
been clearly explained to us in a previous
session and is regulated by the legislature of
each state governed by certain specifications
defined in the constitution of the state or or-
[Column 2]
ganic law of the territory. In the original
thirteen states sex was not a bar to voting but
gradually each state inserted “male” as a
qualification of a voter until now Vermont is
the only state which has not this word in the
suffrage clause of its organic law; but it has
inserted it in its election laws. Monopolies
are rising hydra-headed all over the land and
making it almost impossible for the poor to
live. Many thousand women earn their own
living and many earn it for their families also
doing the same work as men with only half
the wages.  Many women are equally capable
of filling a number of lucrative offices which
now are only eligible to men, where their work
is not heavy and would seem in the fitness of
things more suitable to women than men.
Why not let capacity and ability be the test of
eligibility and not sex? Power is held in re-
spect and when women hold the ballot they
will command more deference then, in virtue
of that power than they do now through the
mere sentiment of chivalry. It is affirmed by
the great workers in suffrage that the greatest
opposition to the cause is the apathy and in-
difference of women themselves. With some
it is from physical exhaustion, because they
have too much to do domestically to have
scarcely an hour a day to read or think of any
thing outside of the four walls of their own
houses and also in the fact that woman’s work
in a family is never done. Yet if the subject
can be so presented to them as to cause a
realization of its benefits to them and others,
an interest will be created and some time will
be found and utilized in investigating the
subject which will result in positive good, that
is now spent less usefully in moments of neces-
sary relaxation. But there is a large class who
have both the leisure, education and ability,
who from sheer apathy and indifference lan-
guidly say they have all the rights they wish
and have no desire to have a voice in politics.
The worst besetting sin of the world is selfish-
ness and will be the very last to loosen its
fangs from the human soul as it passes the
“Gates ajar.” If this great army of fortunate
women would use a few of their leisure hours
in reflecting upon the sad and despairing lives
of thousands of their unfortunate sisterhood,
girls of the factory whose lives are days of toil
for a mere pittance, sewing women with wages
scarcely adequate to keep the wolf from the
door, the drunkards wives who not only have
poverty and toil to contend with, but unkind-
ness and even blows, and numberless other con-
ditions of women too numerous to mention now,
and could be brought to realize that it is in
their power and would be philanthropic and
benevolent to work for the amelioration of this
unchristian condition of affairs, the fear of
being called strong-minded and masculine
would vanish and every man’s wife would in-
sist on knowing why shackles should remain
upon her sex when even the negro is freed, and
why barriers and bans are planted in her path
of progress as a citizen, when she is fully en-
titled to and should be protected by the strong
arm of the law, with equal rights to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness with her
brother. It does not follow as a natural
sequence if women possess the full franchise
that she must or will be elected or accept every
office in the gift of the people. This can
safely be trusted to her sense of propriety and
the good judgment of the people. Let us as
an association seek diligently to inform our-
selves on all matters of government, trying
with the simpler forms as the Municipal, then
County, Territorial and State and the United
States. This does not imply, we should devote
our whole time exclusively to them to the
neglect of our home or business duties, but to
take hold of the subject systematically and at the
beginning and follow it up slowly but surely.
We can then understand better what are our
[Column 3]
rights, and the best manner of petitioning for
them. Much hard and earnest work has been
fruitless, and valuable time lost by basing the
arguments in favor of certain legislature on
debatable premises, for instance the 16th
amendment to the constitution of the U. S.
Those unfavorble to woman suffrage contend-
ing it would be unconstitutional and impossible
while those in favor and apparently with good
logic arguing it as proper and feasible.
	Assertions are not proof, and railing against
and berating masculinity in general and going
to the other extreme of lauding women far
above men is all a waste of time and force. In
a nutshell our duties as suffragists are to in-
form ourselves and instruct each other in  the
science of government, to interest all our
friends in the movement, to convert our fathers,
brothers and husbands to the fact that we can
understand and wield an intelligent power in
politics, and still preside wisely and gracefully
at home, and that until woman’s voice is equally
incorporated in the vox populi that it is not vox
Dei.
	On motion of Mrs. Dougall a vote of thanks
was tendered the ladies, who had so ably
assisted the programme committee. Adjourned
for three months.
		Cornelia H. Clayton. Secretary,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


