[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: FLORAL HINTS. | Author: Unknown]

		  ﻿FLORAL HINTS.

	Our friends who are interested in the de-
lightful pursuit of raising flowers, will find
pleasurable, and doubtless, profitable read-
ing in the selections we propose to offer
from time to time, under the above head.
We also respectfully solicit contributions
from home writers who are capable of giv-
ing information on this subject, suitable to
the practice of floriculture in Utah.
	Sweet-peas should be put into the ground
early, as they will bear the wind and weath-
er, Make a circle round a pole, or some ob-
ject to which they may cling as they rise;
put the peas into the earth an inch deep,
having previously soaked them well. Add
an outer circle every month, so that a con-
tinual bloom may appear. The circle first
sown will ripen and pod for seed in the cen-
tre, while the outer vines will continue

[Column 2]
flowering until late in autumn. When you
have gathered a sufficient number of ripe
pods, cut away all the pods which may
afterward form.
"Every Lady her own Flower Gardener."
	House plants ought to be gently stimulta-
ted once or twice a week. Rain water, so re-
freshing to summer flowers, always contains
ammonia, which also a bounds in all liquid
manures. Take an ounce of pulverized
ammonia, dissolved in one gallon of wa-
ter; it will make spring water even
more stimulating to young plants than rain
water. Keep the soil in the flower pots
loose.––"Field and Factory.
	If our readers knew how easily the White
Water Lily (Nymphia Odorate) could be
cultivated, we believe that very many of
them would be quite as proud of their lily
gardens as of any other portion of their
premises. The roots having been pro-
cured in the fall were kept damp during the
ensuing winter, in flower pots. In the
spring a tub was made by sawing a substan-
tial barrel into, and this, duly painted green,
was set on brick, put in the garden, and one-
third filled with mixture of garden soil,
sand and well rotted manure, The roots
were set in this mixture, water was added
in small quantities, and at intervals of a day
or two, and so gently as not to disturb the
earth, until the tub was filled. Very soon
the handsome round leaves, four or five
inches in diameter, made their appearance
and filled the tub. The loss of water by
evaporation was made good from time to
time, and ere long the blossoms appeared
and delighted every one with their beauty.
	When cold weather came the water was
allowed to dry off almost entirely, and when
it was thus nearly gone, the tub with its
contents, was placed in the cellar and water-
ed at long intervals through the winter. In
the spring the roots were separated, and
about half the increase returned to the same
tub, in a fresh mixture of earth, and they
are now brought out earlier than before,
about April 1st and blossom yet more pro-
fusely. The pure white flowers were as
perfect as the camelia, and delightfully fra-
grant, closing in the night and re-opening
in the morning as is the wont of Water
Lilies. The blossoms were about two inches
in diameter, not quite so large as some of
the specimens in the pond whence these
roots were first taken, but not less beautiful
nor less fragrant.—“Flower Garden.”


[Column 1]
