[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: WORLD’S FAIR NOTES. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

WORLD’S FAIR NOTES.

	THE administration building will have a
mosaic floor costing $5,000. 
	A COLLECTION of finely mounted birds
and animals will be shown in the Pennsyl-
vania building.
	IT is announced that the Virginia Expo-
sition board intends to reproduce at the
Fair, Mount Vernon, the famous home and
last resting place of George Washington.
if this is done a large and interesting col-
lection of Washington relics will be exhibit-
ed in the structure.
	THE Portuguese minister at Washington
has made application for space in the Wo-
man’s building at the World’s Fair for ex-
hibits from the women of Portugal.
	ACCOMMODATIONS for musical entertain-
ments at the World’s Fair have been decided
upon, and the construction of the neces-
sary buildings has been ordered. They in-
clude a recital hall, seating 500 people; a
music hall, with accommodation for 120
players, 300 singers, and an audience of
2,000; a festival ball for performances upon
the largest possible scale, with 200 players,
2,000 singers and an audience of 7,000. The
music hall will contain a fine concert organ,
and in festival hall will be placed an organ
for chorus support.
	Commissioner L. A. Thurston, of Hawaii,
has received word from Claus Spreckles
that the Hawaiian exhibit will be trans-
ported to San Francisco without charge.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer has decided to sup-
plement her work in inviting the nobility
of Europe to organize committees to help
the Board of Rady Managers by sending
similar invitations to influential women in
South America. These invitations will be
sent out by the state department at Wash-
ington. The letters sent to Europe resulted
in securing the co-operation of many of the
most prominent women abroad.
	A syndicate, representing men of influence
and money in both Austria and the United
States, is making arrangements to produce
in Chicago during the World’s Fair the
famed Passion Play exactly as it has been
given for centuries, at intervals of ten years,
by the people of Ober-Ammergau, Bavaria.
The syndicate is incorporated as “The Orig-
nal Ober-Ammergau Passion Play As-
sociation,” with capital stock of $800,000.
It is reported to be the intention to present
the Passion Play in Chicago with the same
cast and same costumes as were employed
at its presentation at Ober-Ammergau in
1890.


A GOOD word for women students comes
from Buchtel College, Akron Ohio, via Mrs.
Claypole, who is fortunate in having two
bright and beautiful daughters graduate
there this year.  The young women of the
graduating class take the prizes for the Law
Essay; subject, "Equitable Remedies, their
Development and Place in Our Jurisprud-
ence."  Miss Josephine E. Cheney, of Can-
al Winchester, takes first prize; Edith and
Agnes Claypo!e, of Akron, share the second.
The two young men who competed were
left far behind.  Of the essays that took
prizes an eminent lawyer said they would
have been creditable in the records of the Su-
preme Court.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

