[Vol31 | June 1944 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Friendship Between Nibley]
THE  REPUBLIC  OF  CZECHOSLOVAKIA  309 
taneously  as  he  did  so,  the  German  mans,  from  the  new  state.  Other 
army  entered  Prague.  Thus  perished  than  this  arrangement,  it  appears 
the  Repubhc  of  Czechoslovakia,  vie-  that  the  problem  might  be  ap- 
tim  of  one  of  the  most  ruthless  and  proached  and  appreciably  solved: 
brutal  outrages  in  all  history.  (i)  W  giving  more  autonomy  than 
Within  a  new  Czechoslovakia,  re-  heretofore  was  realized  to  all  mi- 
newed  consideration  must  be  given  nority  groups;  (2)  by  developing  a 
to  the  vexed  and  complicated  mi-  more  integrated  nationalism  through 
nority  problem  and  even  greater  a  well-planted  system  of  education; 
concessions  must  be  made.  It  may  and  (3)  by  effecting  a  greater  de- 
be  desirable  to  detach  Sudetenland,  centralization  of  public  administra- 
inhabited  almost  exclusively  by  Ger-  tion. 
» ♦ 
CONVOY 
Grace  A.  Coopei 
A  big  ship  slid  silently  from  its  moorings 
into  the  dark  water; 
One,  then  another,  smaller  vessel,  with  its  protection 
in  order 
Slipped  into  designated  place. 
A  thousand  men,  so  recently  boys,  stood  about  the  darkened 
deck. 
Feeling  the  strangeness  of  their  surroundings. 
They  had  come  from  varied  homes,  from  schools,  from  planned 
work; 
The  lives  of  many  had  been  convoyed 
Until  the  call  for  the  duration; 
Few  had  been  like  lone  ships,  sailing  the  deep  seas,  lonely 
but  unafraid; 
Some  were  going  on  a  high  adventure; 
Others,  resentful,  wanted  it  over  with. 
There  were  no  farewells  at  the  sailing- 
Only  the  universal  tears  from  the  great  heart  of  a  nation.

Sixty    LJears  KyLgo 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponents,  June  i,  and  15,  1884 
"The  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion,  and  the  Rights  of 
THE  Women  of  All  Nations" 
Editorial:  Temple  Dedication — ^The  Dedication  of  the  Logan  Temple,  which  took 
place  May  17,  1884,  was  one  of  the  most  remarkable  events  that  has  transpired  in  the 
history  of  the  Church  .  .  .  Services  commenced  at  half  past  ten  a.m.,  President  John 
Taylor  presiding.  On  his  right  hand  sat  his  First  Counselor,  George  Q.  Cannon,  and 
on  his  left  his  Second  Counselor,  Joseph  F.  Smith;  President  Wilford  Woodruff  and 
Apostle  Lorenzo  Snow,  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  also  occupied  seats  on  either  side 
of  the  First  Presidency  .  .  .  Never  since  the  time  when  we  witnessed  the  remarkable, 
one  might  say  marvelous  occurrences,  which  transpired  in  Nauvoo  at  the  time  when 
the  mantle  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  appeared  so  plainly  to  fall  upon  Brigham  Young, 
have  we  seen  any  manifestation  of  divine  acceptance  so  distinctly  clear  as  during  the 
dedication  services  in  the  Logan  Temple.  A  sensation  as  though  myriads  of  angels  were 
in  attendance  and  taking  cognizance  of  that  which  transpired  .  .  .  The  hymns  of  praise, 
the  solemn  prayer  offering  the  house  unto  the  Most  High,  the  words  of  the  servants 
of  God  who  officiated  on  that  memorable  occasion,  and  the  thrilling  Hosannas  of  the 
multitude,  must  be  vividly  impressed  upon  every  one  who  has  the  spiritual  and  emotional 
nature  largely  developed. 
*  «  «  * 
Editorial  Notes:  The  Exponent  of  this  issue  ushers  in  the  new  volume  and  so 
many  of  the  subscribers  are  behind  in  their  payments,  we  wish  to  remind  them,  that 
they  may  come  forward  and  pay  up,  as  everybody  knows  newspapers  are  not  published 
without  money.  Now  is  a  good  time  to  settle  up  all  delinquencies,  and  also  to  subscribe 
for  the  coming  year. 
*     4e     «     If 
Extract  from  Laie  Letter:  Laie,  Oahu,  Sandwich  Islands,  April  17,  1884.  Mrs.  S. 
M.  Kimball,  Secretary  of  the  general  organization  of  Relief  Society:  Dear  Sister,  I  im- 
prove the  first  opportunity  after  our  conference  to  send  you  a  condensed  report  of  the 
branches  of  Relief  Society  on  the  Sandwich  Islands.  Our  societies  are  scattered,  and  in 
some  localities  have  but  few  members.  Our  sisters  here  compare  favorably  wdth  those 
at  home  for  punctuality  in  attending  meetings  .  .  .  they  are  faithful  in  donating  and 
providing  for  the  sick  and  destitute  .  .  .  There  are  but  few  books  printed  in  the  native 
language,  the  Bible  is  the  principal  one;  this  the  natives  know  almost  by  heart,  they 
quote  Scripture  as  fast  as  they  can  talk.    I  have  introduced  sewing  into  the  society  .  .  . 
Sarah  L.  Partridge 
«  ♦  *  * 
Whitechapel  Branch,  London:  On  Wednesday,  March  19,  was  celebrated  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  Relief  Society  of  this  branch,  in  their  large  hall.  New  Road, 
Mile  End,  by  a  concert  or  entertainment.  The  bill  of  fare  provided  v^^as  of  a  most  varied 
and  liberal  character.  In  some  respects  this  was  a  model  concert,  all  songs  and  matter  of 
a  questionable  character,  unworthy  of  saints,  being  excluded  .  .  .  Elder  H.  Garner  pre- 
sided in  his  usual  genial  style.  Elders  Lund  and  Atkins  were  likewise  present.  Toward 
the  close  Elder  Leo  Clawson  gave  a  short  address,  in  which  he  stated  how  pleased  and 
gratified  he  was  with  the  manner  the  program  had  been  rendered  .  .  .  Many  of  the 
Saints  attending  came  from  great  distances,  and  there  was  a  fair  sprinkling  of  strangers 
present. — Alexander  R.  Clark,  Branch  Secretary. 
Page  310

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
TF  one   could   measure   love,   one  lyfOTHERING   the  world   more 
would  doubtless  find  registered  extensively  than  ever  before, 
high  on  the  scale,  the  love  inspired  the  American  Red  Cross  has  a  won- 
by  Sister  May  Booth  Talmage,  who  derful  record  of  accomplishments 
died  April  6,  at  the  age  of  seventy-  for  the  year  ending  March  i,  1944. 
five.  Her  spirit  was  rooted  and  In  our  fifty-six  war  centers  are  350 
nurtured  in  kindliness.  Countless  overseas  clubs  which  provide  recrea- 
are  the  neighbors,  friends,  relations,  tion— furnishing  pianos,  radios, 
home  helpers,  missionary  sons,  and  books,  stationery,  food,  etc.,  to  our 
Church  members  for  whom  she  did  forces.  Camp  and  hospital  work- 
thoughtful  and  helpful  deeds.  Al-  ers  have  aided  3,800,000  persons, 
though  in  poor  health,  she  had  been  Home  Service  workers  have  helped 
assisting  her  husband's  brother,  Al-  2,500,000  people  with  such  prob- 
bert  Talmage,  to  publish  a  maga-  lems  as  financial  assistance  to 
zine  for  the  blind.  She  was  soldiers'  families,  obtaining  emer- 
the  widow  of  Dr.  James  E.  Tal-  gency  leaves  of  absence,  and  locating 
mage,  noted  apostle,  writer,  ora-  negligent  soldiers  for  their  families, 
tor,  and  intellectual  leader  in  the  The  Red  Cross  has  collected 
Church.  They  had  eight  children.  2,500,000  pints  of  blood  for  plasma, 
While  her  husband  was  presiding  and  has  recruited  50,000  nurses  and 
for  three  years  over  the  European  trained  65,000  nurses'  aids.  It  has 
Mission,  she  freely  used  her  unusual  helped  119,000  sufferers  from  dis- 
talents  and  originality  in  her  part  aster  in  our  own  country.  With  the 
of  the  work.  Many  people  of  all  assistance  of  a  great  army  of  volun- 
ages,  both  there  and  in  America,  teers,  it  has  prepared  the  astounding 
will  feel  that  they  have  lost  a  close  number  of  925,000,000  surgical 
personal  friend.  A  member  of  the  dressings,  has  made  12,000,000  gar- 
General  Board  of  the  Young  Wom-  ments  for  war  relief,  and  has  packed 
en's  Mutual  Improvement  Associa-  5,300,000  prisoner-of-war  kits.  These 
tion  for  thirty-eight  years.  Sister  are  known  to  reach  the  prisoners  in 
Talmage  edited  the  Young  Wom-  all  countries,  with  the  possible  ex- 
an's  Journal    for    two    years.     She  ception  of  some  in  Japan. 
sought  truth  always,  and  loved  and  -  rrrrT?T^Tr\rT<Tr>  wr  u    i      r>  n«  ^ 
.   ^    r                "^  T.         .      1    ..1  ATTENDING  Wellesley  College 
strove  for  accuracy.  Possessing  both  A  ^^^  chandralekha  and  Nyantara 
wit  and  wisdom,  she  added  bright-  p^^^.^^  ^^^^^^  ^^  ^^^  f^^^^3  ^Nehru, 
ness  as  well  as  inspiration  to  any  ^^d  daughters  of  the  Ranjit  Pandits, 
gathering.       She     lived     well-nigh  Madame  Chiang   Kai-shek,    deeply 
faultlessly  the  precepts  of  the  Cos-  interested  in  the  future  of  India's
