[WomansExponent | Vol8 | 1879 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: PRIMARY JUBILEE. | Author: Unknown]

PRIMARY JUBILEE.

	On Saturday, June 14, 1879, a very de-
lightful, well-arranged jubilee was given
in the 16th Ward Assembly Rooms, by
the officers of the Primary Association, and
was made still more interesting by a pre-
sentation of a wreath, containing a lock of
hair from each of the children, very artisti-
cally arranged, and in the center a photo-
graph of their President, Sister Mary Jane
Thompson, the whole enclosed in a very
handsome frame; and as two little girls pre-
sented this to her, an older child read an
appropriate poetical address to Sister M. J.
The whole scene was carried out in a most
graceful and affectionate manner by the
children, which reflected great credit on
them, and especially on their teachers.
	The presentation and address were a cmo-
plete surprise, and had such an effect on
Sister Mary Jane, that had not tears arose
to her relief, it seemed that it would have
overpowered her. And many a hear[-] in
that assembly swelled with sweet emotion
at the touching scene, and many an eye
ran over with the glad surprise." After a
short time, Sister M. J. recovered and in a
few sweet words expressed her acknow-
ledgment of the delicate attention; which
was set on foot and carried out by Sister
Mathews and one or two other kind friends.
	It will be a scene long remembered, and
the songs and recitations had been carefully
selected, and the manners of the children
were graceful and even elegant. The whole
affair was altogether an exemplar "worthy
of imitation."				H. T. K.
	Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. -	-	Editor.
 Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00. per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
  Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Buisness hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
  Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
