AFRAID OF WOMAN’S COMPETITION.

	While conversing with a gentleman a
short time since,the subject of the Woman’s
Disabilities bill was introduced. He said
he was very glad it did not become a law
for said he there is no telling where the
women will stop if they do not get checked
up,they will be running for President next.
“If we give them an inch they take an ell,’
So then it is not woman’s incapacity nor

[Column 2]
the unfitness for the duties she might have
to perform which debars her from certain
offices, but, “they will come and take away
our place and nation.” After so many
hundred years have passed during which
almost the common rights of citizenship
have been denied her, some of our broth-
er men are afraid if we have many extra
privileges accorded us, we shall outstrip
them in the race, and thus step out of our
sphere instead of being better quallified for
it.
	No true woman will seek for, or accept a
right beyond what is right and proper.
Give her freedom to exercise the ability
God has given her,educate her on a broader
basis, and then let her have proper encour-
agement, and she will understand better
what her sphere is.
	Men are educated for hundreds of differ-
ent spheres, (and who defines them?) Said
the Duke of Rutland, “Woman should be
taught household duties and cookery.”
How can men expect to raise up an intelli-
gent posterity from mothers who are taught
only to administer to the physical needs of
their families? How can such women prove
intelligent companions and helpmeets to
their husbands? I well remember attending
a Lyceum in the winter of 1856,in a Ward
not far from Salt Lake City, the subject of
discussion was, this, “Is a woman to be
educated equally with man.” The decision
was given in the negative, the main argu-
ment being that as woman’s duties consisted
chiefly in attending to household affairs
and taking care of her family it was not
necessary to educate her as thouroughly as
man, his sphere of action being so much
more enlarged. Should any one deliver
himself of such a sentiment now, I think
he would be waited upon by a delegation of
ladles and enlightened upon the subject.
	“No telling where they will stop.” Just
so my brother, we do not intend to stop!
This is an age of progression, and with the
blessing of God we hope to go on hand in
hand with our fathers and sons helping
the weak, encouraging the strong, bringing
about reform here and there, toning down
some extremes, and correcting mistakes,
thus helping to bring about the Millenium.
We are proud to see that many of our breth-
ren understand woman’s motives in these
movements and appreciate her efforts in
helping to ennoble and exalt the sisters and
lead them into a higher channel that they 
may the better understand their high and
holy mission as mothers to the sons and 
daughters of God. And while some of our 
sisters who have talent and ability are en-
gaged in laboring for the common weal, and
are directing their efforts for the general
good of all womankimd, let each one in her
own home, be that home ever so humble,
try to make some reforms which will lead
to the one great end, even as many little
streams swell the broadest rivers. Hund-
reds of earnest, thinking women, whose
voices may not be “heard in the land,” are
yet, watching the progress of the woman's
cause, inhaling the spirit of it, and adding
their mite of influence to that of their sisters,
although that influence may not extend
further than the circle of their own little
neighborhood. How many in these humble
homes can date their looking up to a higher

[Column 3]
standard from the time of the organization
of Woman's Societeies, and the issuing of the 
“Woman's EXPONENT?”
	RUSTICIA
	Vernon,Febuary 22, 1880.


