"NOT DEAD, BUT SLEEPTH"

	Thanks, brave Ben Lomond, for that most
felicitous quotation, as well as for other
good things said in our behalf.
	We give notice of appeal against the
present decision of our Legislature, and
warn their Honorable Body that our Bill is
likely to need more killing at their hands
than "Ben Tasker" at the hands of "Ben
Lomond." We do not intend to remain
defeated. 
	I admit that the great question of equal
rights is a very serious one, but the deep-
est tragedy on the boards has sly dashes of
fun tucked away in corners, and I think
since we are sure to win the race at last, we
can afford to indulge in a few quiet smiles
over some of those "powerful weak" argu-
ments of our opponents, who really seem
rather scared. "Vidi" compares official
position to "a fine field" with "a good
fence" around it to keep out "cows, etc.,"
which might "destroy the products of the 
field."
	By "cows" he obviously refers to women;
ugh! and by "etc." I conclude he refers to
aliens, lunatics, felons and Indians not 
taxed. And now, what I'd like to fathom
is in what sense he holds the political are-
na to be a fine [-]eld. Does he mean that it 
is now so well tilled and in such perfect
thrift and order that any further attempts
in that direction would only injure it? If
so, then I must say that to a spectator it
don't look so, while officers from the Presi-
dent down to the postmaster and the mag-
istrate are accused of holdihg  their posi-
tions at the will of rings and wirepullers,
rather than at the will of the people; while
monopolies drain the lifeblood from the
bone and muscle of the nation; while dram-
shops and brothels spread death and de-
struction under protection of law; and while
want, weakness and even sex are treated
like crimes, and a different code of morals
laid down for men and women.
	But perhaps the gentleman, when speak-
ing of "products," merely refers to the
salaries, emolument and perquisites of of-
fice holding, and dreads lest women  might
want the salary as well as the office. This
is something tangible, something deserving
of careful consideration as a grave danger,
and is altogther worthy the feudal ages, the
Salic law, "Vidi" and Vici.
	Now, having climbed these two horns of
my dilemma, I find  there  is still  another
like  this:  Perhaps "Vidi" sees in some
well salaried public position "a fine field"
for the display of his talents; and you must
admit, dear reader, that this is a brilliant
idea. The parable of the fine field is "pow-
erful weak," but here is somethihg strong.
Speaking of woman's sphere being "within
the sacred precincts of home," he says:
"There she reigns supreme, and she ought
to." This exceedingly radical statement
must be divided into two heads, for greater
ease of decapitation:
	First—"There she reigns supreme." If
this were true, so that men and not women
were thus conquered  singly, I submit that
the aggregate of power would be in our
hands and we certainly could not petition
our subjects (and get refused) for terms of
equality. Moreover, since it really is
equality and not supremacy which we de-


[Column 1]

sire, no just and reasonable woman wishes
to reign supreme at home or elsewhere.
She wants an equal voice in family affairs,
and an equal ownership in children and 
purse. So far from this being the case, the 
man by law has always been the sole dicta-
tor and proprietor, not only of policy, chil-
dren and property, but of the woman her-
self included. Wonderful supremacy this!
so off goes the first head.
	Second—"And she ought to." Now, I 
protest thnt here is more granted—nay,
thrust upon us—than the strongest minded
woman, or the one of most "nerve," ever
dreamed of asking. Now, if we dared ac-
cept this oracle of "Vidi," what would be-
come of St. Paul's time-honored advice,
"Wives submit," &c., or what of those fear-
ful things lately quoted to us concerning
"women rule over them, and children are
their oppressors?" These things are brought
up by those who tear to allow any woman
to hold an office, lest she should thus sin
against conscience and Scripture by ruling
over people. Now, from a distance this
looks like a large-sized bubaboo, but calm
your fears, "mes enfants," and see how 
frail it is. No doubt you have all heard
delegates elect make their farewell address
to their constituents, and not one of them
ever failed to assure the sovereign people
that "I go, not your ruler, but your servant,
subject to your orders and bound to obey
your instructions." So you see that accord-
ing to men's own definition of such a posi-
tion, those who believe in woman's subser-
viency ought to be anxious to send her to
the Legislature. But off with this second
head, for in the ideal Society we will all
serve each other; and we deny that a wo-
man—or a man—ought to reign supreme at
home, or anywhere else. Let us all be free
and equal.
	And if those women who clamor for office
are the very ones we would not like to put 
there, it is equally true when applied to
men. Those who most faithfully and hon-
estly perform their private duties are they
who will be most likely to do public work
in tne same way. The office-hunter is a
drone.
	Now, let me assure the timid that there
is not the least occasion for all this alarm
lest women wish to do men's work and 
leave, their own undone. This is what they
want—liberty to do everything they please
in order that their natural occupations may
come to be esteemed at their actual worth;
and then woman may choose a peculiarly
feminine occupation without being obliged
to submit to the injury of working for noth-
ing, and the insult of being told at the same
time that she is supported, and that she is
rather ornamental than useful. This work-
ing twenty-four hours a day for board and
clothes is growing too monotonous, and we
feel like it is time to adjudge the rate of
wages according to the actual service per-
formed, instead of according to the sex of
the servant.
	Do you see, gentlemen? We don't want
your blacksmithing and borsebreaking,your
felon catching and fighting; we are free to
admit that these things are beyond our
powers. But we do want you to admit that
housekeeping and citizen rearing are beyond
your powers, and that between these two
extremes is ample scope for the exercise of
all the talents of both men and women so
that none need remain hidden in a napkin.
But to return to "Vidi." He says "one
woman who is content to train her children
for future usefulness, and instil into their
souls principles of virtue, purity, honor and
integrity, is worth more to the world at
large than a whole regiment of female

[Column 2]

office-holders, voters, polticians, or any-
thing else."
	Mr. Speaker: "I move to amend the gen-
tleman's resolution by striking out the word
"female," so that it may read "is worth
more to the world at large than a whole
regiment of officeholders, voters, politicians,
or anything else." Carried.
	We want to do our own peculiar work,
because we know its worth; but we are
tired of spoiling it by being obliged to sub-
contract and follow orders of those who
cannot know, and often do not care, how it
ought to be done, so that they can claim the
pay. We want the original contract, so
that we can be at liberty to pursue the best
methods, and we guarantee better work.
		L. L. D.
	St. George, Feb. 20, 1880.


