A CONTENTED WIFE.

	I wish my readers to understand that I
am not an office-seeker, but the very oppo-
site—am as happy a wife and mother as
generally falls to the lot of woman. I love
my home, and believe that I am acting in
my sphere, and a noble one, too; but is this
a proof that woman should have no other
aspirations, that she should always be satis-
fied with working at home, within a nut-
shell as it were, and not daring to look
higher than the roof of her own domicile?
No;  there is not a woman of any spirit that
could feel satisfied, much less a true Latter-
day Saint, whose mind has been expanded
by the light of the everlasting Gospel. We
know that Eve was first to partake of the
tree of knowledge, which the Bible declares
"made them as Gods;" and that Adam was
subject to the fall as well as she; and we
know that when God in His tender mercy
sees fit to take the curse from man he will
from woman. If the minds and intellects
of women have been blunted, so have those
of men in proportion. Thousands who
have had the talents have not had the op-
portunity to improve upon them. I confess
that before reading the various articles pub-
lished in our dailies upon woman's disabili-
ties, I had felt but little interest in the
matter; not that I was ignorant of the fact
that for generations women have been
looked upon by the majority of men just
as any other surplus article would be. The
supply exceeds the demand, and therefore
they have been treated with far less respect
and consideration than most men would like
to have shown to their beasts. The little
value put upon woman has had the effect of
lowering her in her own estimation for
generations past, and has been one great
cause of the degradation of so many thou-
sands. How many have been driven to
lives of shame by want and starvation star-
ing them in the face! And how many an
innocent, but thoughtless girl has been led
from virtue's path by wolves in sheep's
clothing, who promised always to love and
cherish her; but instead have deserted and
left her, friendless and alone, to the mercy
of a cold and unfeeling world, and after a
few useless struggles, she, finding her char-
acter forever ruined, sinks to rise no more;
while the fiends in human shape are allowed
to associate with the good and pure, moving
in the best society, and are considered fit
husbands for pure, innocent girls, and to
hold any office, from the President down!
I have not the time nor space, if I had the
disposition, to tell the different causes for
woman's fall; but I ask, in the name of con-
science and humanity, how sensible and
honorable men can be so blind, or wonder
that woman should at last rise with a fixed
determination to break the shackles that
have so long bound her, and become free,
and man's equal instead of his slave.
	Many years ago some good angel whis-
pered to me that there was a brighter day
dawning for woman. I could not tell how
it was coming, but from that time I have
felt perfectly satisfied that the Lord would
bring it about in His own due time and in
His own way. I had never thought of the
franchise being given to woman, much less
did I expect that they would petition for
the removal of woman's disabilities; the
very mention of such a thing would have
shocked me. But since reading and reflect-
ing upon the subject, and the condition of
the human family, my eyes have been
opened, and I see the hand of an offended
God reaching out to the assistance of His
patient and long suffering daughters, who
have endured enough under the rule of

[Column 2]

ungodly men. He has heard and taken
cognizance of the cries of the millions of
suffering women and children, and has
turned the tide which is increasing daily in
power and influence, and nothing this side
of heaven can stay its progress; and weak
man would do well to note it, and under-
stand that our Heavenly Father, when He
gave him power to rule, intended that he
should do it in righteousness instead of
which he has taken advantage of his privi-
leges, and God will hold him accountable
for it; and until man is willing to acknowl-
edge woman as his equal, and allows her to
stand by his side and have a voice in all
matters that concern the welfare of women
as well as men, he need not expect to be
prospered. And if I had not received a
testimony that God had set His hand for
the last time to accomplish His purposes, I
might fear that the work of regenerating
and redeeming the human family would
prove a failure. I certainly believe that it
will continue to make slow progress until
His servants and handmaidens are willing
to work together in harmony. We are
continually taught that we must become
one in all things, and many who preach this,
will in the next breath (figuratively speak-
ing) ridicule and sneer at the idea of wo-
man's aspiring to become his equal.
	One of the great objections raised to wo-
men holding office is that they would be
subjected to hearing rough and insulting
language, which would be very revolting
to any lady; but if courts have become such
low pits as they seem willing to admit,
would it not be worth the trial to give
ladies the opportunity of cleansing them?
I think that the presence of the refining
influence of women would soon purify the
atmosphere of a court house, or any other
place. I can testify that a great change has
been wrought at the polls since ladies re-
ceived the franchise, and there were many
at that time who predicted that we would
disgrace ourselves. The Prophet Joseph
said that the sisters were always first in all
good works, and we would advise every
brother who feels frightened at the thought
of their stepping out of their place, and
may be into his, to go into his closet and
shut the door, and ask the Lord to show
him "woman's sphere." They remind
me of the unbelieving world, who refuse to
investigate our principles and condemn us
without a hearing. I am confident that
God will have respect for His handmaids,
who have willingly bowed their necks to
the yoke, proving their integrity by their
works, their long-suffering and patience
through scenes such as are past the under-
standing of man. Her labors and sacrifices
for the exaltation of others as well as her-
self ought to be remembered and rewarded
with at least the confidence of brethren;
and I believe that when the proper time
comes the Lord will inspire their hearts
to do them justice. I feel to acknowledge
His hand in all things, and to unite my
faith with the honest in heart that He will
reveal His will to those whom we have
covenanted to sustain. I feel to honor them
and also those who have had the moral
courage and firmness to stand up in the face
of ridicule and defend the cause of the
sisters, whose names are now spoken evil
of, but will yet be honored, as are the wo-
men whose acts contributed greatly to the
success of the war of independence. We
have had plenty of examples in our own
eventful history to prove what women of
the right type are capable of doing; and
the men who are so egotistical as to believe
us all to be such dependent creatures, should 
read the lives of some of the "Women of

[Column 3]

Mormondom," who have learned by sad
experience to trust in God and not in man.
"Cursed is he who maketh flesh his arm,"
and those who have done this have been
overthrown. So let us all see that our faith
is not built upon a sandy foundation.
	Every mother who understands her mis-
sion will try to train up her children in the
way that they should go, that they may be-
come bright and shining lights; but do not,
in your anxiety to have them excel, forget
what you owe to yourself; for, if you aspire
to nothing above housework, and trying to
make home comfortable and inviting to the
inmates thereof, they are apt, in their up-
ward course to honor and fame, to look upon
you as the one intended by Providence to
serve them. Let mothers early impress
the truth upon the minds of their children,
and instead of encouraging their boys in
false notions, show them the inconsistencies
of one sex being superior to the other,
when both are born of the same mother.
God is an impartial Being, and created wo-
man for as noble a purpose as He did man;
and I am thankful that there are a few who
are honest and generous enough to acknowl-
edge it. Such men are deserving and will
always command the love and respect of
every good and noble woman.
		H. M. W.
	S. L. City, Feb. 23, 1880.


