CONVERSATION.
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
			(continued)
 I gather up the dropped threads of my last
writing, feeling I have a little more  to say
on the  subject.  I  do  not  mean to assert
that conversation should be  studied as  an
art.  It is not the most learned, either, that
excel in this most desirable  gift - for gift it
is - though like all others it requires culti-
vation.  It is tact, not talent, and a healthy,
bright and intelligent  mind,  that bestows
the material  out of which the agreeable
speaker is made. It is very desirable, be-
cause it is a medium of doing much good,
and conferring actual happiness.  It should
not be  reserved  entirely  for  company, or 
casual visitors, but should be the attendant
in the family circle, and around the home
fireside, as a means of drawing all together
and calling out the mind of each member
of that most delightful circle of parents,
brothers, sisters, friends!  By such an in-
terchange of thought, the vexations and 
petty cares of daily life may be dispersed,
and peace and cheerfulness take their place.
	It is an imperative  duty  to  make the
home evenings so  agreeable  that every
member feels drawn imperceptibly, as into 
a magnetic  circle, to spend his evenings
at home.  Husbands and sons should be
able to find those evenings at home the 
most agreeable place to them; many a hus-
band has relinquished  his "club," or some
other resort that he has been accustomed to
attend, when he has discovered that "there
is no place like home" - made so agreeable
[-]y the bright, kind spirits that assemble
there, waiting to make  a  delightful  even-
ing after the turmoil of the day; that in
the evening at least there shall be "white
moments" in which to bask, as in the sun-
shine of the soul.  The boys of the family
I would especially recommend to the con-
sideration  of  the  same  circle;  gather them
into that circle with love and gentleness,
and let some of the conversation be made
particularly agreeable to them- some nauti-
cal historical  fact, or some  grand military
exploit, where all were more or less heroes,
or some grand deed that exalted human
nature and made life glorious.  Tell them
of the living  characters who, as boys like
them, have entered life  many  of  them
without home or friends, but bravely they
fought their way stood  to  the "wheel" to
which, like many a "steersman," they have
had to be "lashed" to preserve them from
being  washed  overboard;  and  then show
the reward - how they conquered and be-
came  the magnates of the age they lived
in; and not only for an age, "but for all
time."  You will see the boys' eyes sparkle,
all the nobility in them will be roused; in
idea they are helping those men to fight
their battles.  They drink into the spirit of 
labor and heroism, and they carry this with
them as a seed sown in the mind, till it be-
comes  a  tree, under  whose  branches they
will in time take shelter, and find refuge
from the storms of life, like the heroes they
have contemplated and desired  to imitate.
	Girls also should certainly  not be forgot-
ten;  they also must have their grand living
prototypes set before them--women who
have made their mark in the world, "not
for an age, but for all time."  Here is an
ample  field for conversation.  Cheerfulness
and playfulness should  ever preside over
these home conversations; delightful teach-
ers  are  always  playful and attractive,
whether in the parlor  or  the  schoolroom.
Religion, morals and manners, when always
presented in gloomy robes and long faces,
repel and drive away the gay and buoyant
spirit of youth.  Wisdom is made fascinat-
ing when she  enunciates  her  words  in  a
sweet and pleasant voice and a manner that
shall win and attach her hearers.  How lov-
ingly we recall the voice and the words
gone that had this genial influence over
us!  and the longer we live and the more ex-
perience we have, the more we see and un-
derstand  the goodness of words and teach-
ings conveyed to us by such a medium. It
is not by long conversations that instruction
is necessarily  conveyed; a sentence aptly
spoken may convey a life-long lesson, if
spoken in  season and in the spirit of love
and kindness.
	In visiting the sick, it is a fine art to be
able to speak to them in a way and manner
that shall cheer and invigorate the dormant
faculties;  cheerfulness, and even playful-
ness, as the case may be, should ever be the 
tone of conversation in the sick room.
Some people seem  born  to visit  the sick; 
their very voice and manner as they enter
bring with them life, health and refresh-
ment.  They also have a serenity and even
a playfulness, that throws sunshine over
the shade, till the languid eyes will bright-
en, the closed lips  smile, the hand will
grasp as though it said "stay with me;" and 
as the visitor departs, the last words, with 
the lingering look, are "come again soon!"
We should never  carry gloomy news into
the sick room; our talk should be cheerful,
soothing, and playful even, that after we
have retired,  the  patient  will  recall  our
words and perhaps have a quiet laugh over
the thought of it; and all this is a help to
restoration.  I have in my mind's eye at
this moment a dear nurse who was indeed
a ministering spirit in the sick room: so 
calm, so gentle, moving about so noiselessly
in the soft slippers she had procured for the 
occasion, like a spirit of peace, and while
she quietly  arranged and  put the room in
order, her very movements were an enter-
tainment and amusement that soothed and
comforted the  watching and observant pa-
tient;  and while  attending  personally to 
her needs, would tell some little lively tale
that required no stretch  of the weak and 
enfeebled  brain  to  comprehend, but just
gave a change of ideas and broke the mo-
notony of the sick room, and for the time
being ministered to the  dormant  faculties
of  the  invalid.  Trifles do indeed make
the sum of human things.  Speech is a
mighty, God-like gift.  Oh! let us watch
our words more and more, that when we
do speak our words shall be remembered for
good and for edification, and  especially in
our every day life and in the circle of home.


