	R.S. REPORTS.

	SANTAQUIN	The Relief Society of this place held their
11th, Annual Meeting in the School House,
Nov 13th, 1879. After the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes and re-
ports, of Relief Society were read, also the
minutes and reports of the Young Ladies
M. I. A. and Primary Associations were
read at the same time, by each one’s Sec’y,
which was very satisfactory to all-present.
On the stand was our Pres. E. J. Stickney,
Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne and Zina
D. Young,from Salt Lake, also Sisters Agnes
Douglas and Council from Payson,and Bishop
George Halliday, and his Council. Sister
Douglas at the same time organized a Silk
Association. She being the President of
the Southern District of Utah Co, Pres.
Stickney, also chose two new Counselors one
having removed to Arizona the other re-
signing through ill health. The above
named brothers and sisters addressed the
meeting which was a very interesting one, a
good spirit prevailed and much good instruc-
tion was given, it was a meeting that will
long be remembered in Santaquin.
	Closed with the usual exercises. May
the Lord bless you in your labors in doing
good is the prayer of your Sister.
		ELIZABETH CARTER.
	PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.
	The PrimaryAssociation of Santaquin
held their first Annual meeting in the
school house Nov. 15, 1879. There was
present, the President and council of the
Relief Society. Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I
Horne and Z. D. Young of Salt Lake City.
Officers of the Goshen Relief Society and
Bishop Halliday and Counselors and Sec’y.
of the Primary, and quite a number of the
fathers and mothers of the children. The
children sang “Oh, we can’t stay away”
Prayer; singing, “A Welcome,” by 26 little
girls. Sister&nbsp;E. R. Snow addressed the
meeting for a short time, then proceeded to
reorganize the Association with the follow-
in gnamed officers. Miss Serena E. Halliday
President; Mrs. Mary A. Stickney and Mrs.
Rindenia Olson, Counselors; Mrs. Ann J.

[Column 2]
Stickney Sec’y. and Miss Sarah J. Smith
Assistant Secretary; and Master Joseph L.
Olson, Treasurer. Sister Snow asked some
questions which were promptly answered
by the little ones. She gave many good
instructions to all present. Sisters Horne
and Young and Bishop Halliday made brief
and appropriate remarks. The children
sang “I will not steal. Benediction.
	The children partook of a picnic dinner,
and the afternoon was spent in dancing,
singing and reciting by the children. The
exercises closed with short and interesting
remarks by Bishop Halliday Sisters Snow,
Horne and Young. The proceedings of the
whole day will never be forgotten by the
good people of Santaquin.
		Ann J. Stickney.

