		CEDAR CITY TRON CO.
	EDITOR EXPONENT: The following report
of the first Quarterly Stake Conference, of
the Relief Societies of the Parowan Stake
of Zion, which was held in the  Meeting
House at Parowan on Saturday and Sunday
Feb. 14 and 15th,1880. Convened at 10.30.
A. M. and was opened with the usual
exercises.
	Sister Ellen W. Lunt President and
Sister Mary Anne Lunt and Huldah A.
Mitchell Counselors, The Presidents of the 
several Relief Societies of the Stake were
president as also Pres. Wm. H. Dame and 
counselors Henry Lunt and Samuel Orton,
Bihops Bayliss, Wm. C. McGreger, J. E.
Dally and C. J. Arthur and others of the
Priesthood, were also present by invitation
of the sisters. Pres. Lunt stated the busi-
ness of the Conference, and that we had not 
come to give any special instruction but  to
mingle our voices and rejoice together.
The condition of the various ward Societies
were reported verbally by Presidents Emma
Smith, Sage T. Jones and Eliza Barton, of 
the Parowan, Cedar and Paragoonah Wards.
Verbal reports were also given of the Y. L.
M. I. Associations of the same place, by
Sisters Cedenia Smith, M. A. Lunt and
Mrs. Barton, all of which were represented
to be in favorable condition and good stand-
ing.
	After the opening of the afternoon session
the Secretary of the Stake read the Finan-
cial and Statistical reports of each Ward-
comprising Parowan Cedar Parogoonan
and Summit—which showed that the So-
cieities were in a flourishing condition, after
which Pres. Lunt said,in consequence of Bro.
Jesse N. Smith having been called to move
to Arizona, it became our duty to release

[Column 2]

Sister Emma Smith from the Presidency
of the Parowan Branch of the Relief Society,
also her counselors,one of whom had already
moved to Arizona, which was accordingly
done by the voice of the Conference, and a
vote of thanks given them for their past
labors. The Society was then reorganized
with Sister Augusta Mitchell, President;
and Sisters' Mary Stevens and Cornella
Mortenson Counselors.
	Very excellent remarks were made by
Sisters' A. M. Lunt H. Mitchell, Emma
Smith,Mary Wimmer,Sage T. Jones and M.
A. Untbank, upon our duties as Saints of the 
Most High, training of children and the
benefit derived through Primary Associa-
tions They also bore testimony to the
truth  of the principle of plural marriage
etc. Conference adjourned till Sunday 10,
A. M. when after the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, a Primary Association
was organized with one hundred and fifty-
nine members. Sister Mary Durham,
President and Sister Meta K. Rasmussen
and Ann Towler counselors.
	The names of Sister Eliza R. Snow as
President of all the Relief Societies, and 
the officers of the Parowan Stake Society
were put before the Conference and unani-
mously sustained as were also the officers of 
the various Ward Societies. The Sisters who
had been chosen to preside over the Relief
Society and Primary Association of Parowan
were then set apart. Appropriate remarks
were made during the Conference by Pres.
Dame, H. Lunt and Elder Wm. Marsden a 
general good feeling prevailed and the 
blessing of God attended us. Conference
was adjourned, at noon, till the 24th and
25th, of May, 1880, to be held at Cedar
City. It was adjourned thus early in con-
sequence of the sudden death of the little
daughter of our Secretary, who was taken
ill on Saturday evening with violent
spasms which continued until her strength
was exhausted and at 5 o'clock on  Sunday
morning her spiait returned to God who
gave it.
	"The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh
away and blessed be the name of the Load.
	The sad occurrence cast a gloom over the
feelings of the people who were full of
sympathy and kindness to the bereaved
ones.
	A Primary Association was organized in
this place Feb. 7, 1880, with Sister Mary
Stewart President and Sarah Chatterley and
Josephine C. Wood Counselors with 92
members. At a meeting 29 others were
enrolled making a total of 121. Donald C.
Stewart was appointed Secretary and
Charlotte A. Chatterly assistant secretaay,
Edward Jones Palner, Treasurer.
	Ever praying for your prosyerity and 
success in the noble work in which you are
engaged.
