CONCLUDED.
 Last winter the legislature of Massachu-
setts passed a bill allowing women to vote
on school questions--and already, thousands
of the best and most intelligent  women in
that state are  registering,  and  many have
already assisted at school elections.  In the
Mo. Legislature last session, several women,
of St. Louis, were sent as delegates  to  the
Assembly to present arguments in  favor of
amendments, giving the  right  of  suffrage
to women.  They were courteously received
and listened to.  Several gentlemen  spoke
in support of their arguments.  Among the
number,  Major  Merwin,  editor  of  the 
American Journal of Education and Rev.
Dr. Eliot, of St. Louis,  President  of the
Washington University.  Last winter Con-
gress recived  petitions for a 16th  Amend-
ment to the Constitution, giving the ballot
to women, signed by tens of  thousands of
honest and intelligent  women from every
state in the Union--and they  were not all
sour old maids  either--but most of them
loving, home-keeping mothers.
 For over four years the women of Wyom-
ing have voted, and the experiment seems
to be  attended with no startling  results.
Judge Kingman says, "That since the wo-
men  vote  in Wyoming that rowdyism
and drunkeness are banished from the polls,
and that the best classes of women take an
interest in the elections  without creating a
ripple in the home circle."  As a temper-
ance measure the same high authority con-
siders the ballot in woman's hand indispen-
sible.
The able minority report of Senators Hoar,
Mitchell and Cameron may be regarded as
a very marked indication  of the  progress
of our work.  There is no shutting  your 
eyes to the truth, that the thinking women
of America, from Abagail Adams, of nearly
a hundred years ago, down are not satisfied
with the old order of things, but insist that
the very spirit of our so called free institu-
tions, demands for our sex, perfect equality
without which is mockery to talk of a free
country, or a free people.
 Twenty years ago the enthusiastic Aboli-
tionist who predicted  the  emancipation of
the colored men on  this  continent, in less
than a decade, was considered insane and 
today many of you may think the  cause I
advocate equally hopeless, but I a mfirmly
convinced, that the dawn of the new cen-
tury will find the question settled and wo-
man clothed  with  the  full  powers,  and
privileges of citizenship.  You men of Holt
County, will soon have an opportunity to
place yourselves on record.  See to it  that
you come with clean hands, clear heads, and
pure motives to try our case, remember we
can really do nothing without  your assist-
ance and if you use the reason  God  has
given  you,  to  weigh  and  measure  our
claims, you must see that only one course is
open to you.  Mothers train your sons to
feel that their first vote will be but another
blow for your enfranchisment.  Teach your
daughters to struggle now, and forever for
the God given right, to life liberty and the
pursuit of happiness in her own way, bear-
ing in mind that we can  have no power to
protect ourselves  from  unjust  taxation, or
unequal laws, until we have our political
disabilities removed.  We can never realize
the full idea of a representative government,
while such  women  as  Maria Mitchell the
astornomer or Anna Dickenson the  orntor,
may be represented by a bundle  of  newly
arrived foreign  ignorance, or a drunken
negro outvotes  the queen of the  rostrum,
and so on down to the millions  of quiet
home loving women who want a voice at
least on the whiskey question.  That the
revolution we ask  for, will bring  some
changes no one can doubt, but knowing in
whom, and what they have believed  new
seas of agitation can have no perils for those
who sail  by the compass  of truth.  The
same law which holds oceans in its bed, and
planets in their courses will inspire  those
two mysterious sovereigns we call man and
woman to transact their gayest, and gravest
affairs with no jar or hurt, but mutual bene-
fit to each other and perpetual help to all
mankind.
The coming woman will be no masculine
femininity or the opposite, but with greater
physical vigor of finer tiber, she  will  bring
melting tenderness, mental force, and moral
rectitude such as our  country  vainly sighs
for elsewhere.
Then friends of the sterner sex, read and
ponder well, before you cast your vote on
this great question and give us a fair ver-
dict.  We are not trying to buy, or beg  or
steal your influence, but as you already pos-
sess  and  enjoy  the  highest privileges of
citizenship, we ask  you not  to  perpetuate
our subjection, through wilful ignorance.


[Column 1]
