ABOUT THE WOMEN IN WYOMING.

	Chief Justice Howe, of the Supreme Court of
Wyoming, in a  letter  to Mrs. Myra Bradwell,
of Chicago, says: “I had no agency in the en-
actment  of  the  law  in Wyoming conferring
legal equality on women.  I found it upon the
statute book  of the Territory, and in accord-
ance with its provision, several women were
legally drawn by the proper officers on the
grand and petit juries of Albany Co, and were
duly summoned  by the Sheriff without any
agency of mine.  On being apprised  of these
facts, I conceived it to be my [---] duty to
fairly enforce this law as I would any other;
and more than this, I resolved  at once that as
it had fallen to my lot to have the experiment
tried under  my administration, it should have
a fair trial, and I therefore assured  these wo-
men that they could serve or not as they chose;
that if they chose to serve, the court would
secure to them  the most respectful considera-
tion and deference, and protect them from in-
sult in word and gesture, and from everything
which might offend a modest and virtuous wo-
man in any of the walks  of life in which the
good and true women of our country have been
accustomed to move.
	“While I had never been an advocate for the
law I felt that thousands  of  good  men  and
women had been, and that they had a right to
see it fairly administered; and I was resolved
that it should not be sneered down, if I had to
employ the whole power of the court to pre-
vent it.  I felt  that even those who were op-
posed to the policy of admitting women to the
right of suffrage and to hold office would con-
demn me if I did not do this.  It was also
sufficient for me that my own judgment ap-
proved this course.
	“With such assurances these women chose
to serve, and were duly impaneled as jurors.
They are educated, cultivated Eastern ladies,
who are an honor to their sex.  They have
with true  womanly devotion left their  homes
of comfort in the  States, to share  the fortunes
of their husbands and brothers in the far West,
and to aid them in founding  a  new  State be-
yond the Missouri.
	“And now as to the results.  With all my
prejudices against the policy, I am under con-
scientious obligations to say that these women
acquitted themselves with such dignity, de-
corum, propriety  of conduct, and intelligence,
as to win the admiration of every fair-minded
citizen  of  Wyoming.  They  were  careful,
painstaking,  intelligent  and  conscientious.
They were firm and resolute for the right, as
established by the law and the te[--]imony.
Their  verd[-]cts we e right, and after three or
four criminal trials the lawyers engaged in de-
fending persons accused of crime began to avail
themselves  of the  right  of  peremptory  chal-
lenge to get rid of the women jurors, who were,
too much  in favor of  enforcing  the laws and
punishing  crime to suit the interests of their
clients. After the grand jury had been in ses-
sion two days, the dance-house keepers, gam-
blers and demi-monde fled out of the city in
dismay, to escape the indic ment of women
grand jurors.  In short, I have never,  in
twenty-five years of  constant  experience in
the courts of the country, seen  a more faithful,
intelligent, and resolutely  honest grand and
petit-jury than these.
	“The presence of  these  ladies  in court se-
cured the most perfect decorum and propriety
of conduct, and the gentlemen of the bar and
others vied with each other in their courteous
and respec ful demeanor towards the ladies and 
the court.  Nothing occurred to  offend the
most refined  lady (if she was a [-]ensible lady),


and the  universal  judgment  of every  intelli-
gent and fair-minded man  present was  and is
that the experiment was a success."
	Judge Kingman,  Associate  Justice  of the
Supreme Court of Wyoming writes from Lara-
mie City to R. D. Douglas, Esq.: “I am glad to
have the opportunity to refute the idle calumny
to which  you  refer.  Of  a  large  number of
cases tried in this Territory by women Justices
of the Peace, only two have been appealed, and
these two were both sustained by the Appeliate
Court, and judgment ordered  in  accordance
with the decision of the woman Justice.
	“And the truth [--] a where there were men and
women justices in the same town at the same
time, and where  parties  brought  their cases
before either at their own selection, the women
have had by far the greater number to try, and
have given the best satisfaction.  To be sure
we have not had a large  number  of  women
justices.  We have here, as everywhere e'se, a
set of drones who want to get their living with-
out  work, and they manage to crowd women
out of nearly every place  of profit and honor;
but whenever and wherever she has had a
chance to bring her talent or her influence into
fair comparison  with the men here in Wyo-
ming, she has invariably appeared to advant-
age, and all parties have been benefitted."
	Facts such as these speak for themselves and
need no comment.


