WOMAN.

	Siuce the abilities of woman have been
agttated  it has caused many reflections to
arise in my mind, and more especially since
I heard this question given for debate. "Is
it right for woman to vote?" I was struck
with astonishment. This privilege has been
granted us Latter day Saint women for fifty
years, or at least ever since the rise of the
Church, and for ten years we have had po-
litical suffrage. And now the question
arises, is it right? I conclude it came from
the unthinking part of society—those who
have never weighed the subject. The Scrip-
ture says, "the man is not without the wo-
man, or the woman without the man in the
Lord." And if created in the image of
God, how could she be companionable with-
out intelligence? Accordingly she must
possess this quality; or did our Father be-
queath this gift to His sons only? If so,
what kind of posterity will they raise? I
object to this idea, realizing that we are be-
loved by our Father equally to themselves;
unless they keep His commands better.
	Much might be said upon this subject,
but to illustrate the subject briefly, we will
refer to Josephine, the wife of Napoleon
Bonaparte. What did her intellect do for
him? Her motives were righteous, and
she was womanly in all her efforts to estab-
lish him in the hearts of his contrymen, by
pointing out worthy objects of charity in
their realm, which would have passed un-
noticed but for her. Bonaparte, through
her influence, established and endowed a
school for the education of those children
whose fathers lost their lives in his service.
Josephine herself purchased a mansion in
Malmaison, and had it elegantly fitted up
for Bonaparte on his return from Switzer-
land. Her constant anxiety for his happi-
ness may continually be seen, but I forbear.
Finally he decided that he must have an
heir to the throne; a divorce must be given.
After listening to the request, Josephine
remarked: "Napoleon, my Star is of a high
order as well as your own; when it is re-
moved your's will fade." We will briefly
state that he lived to realize this, and be-
came an exile on the island of St. Helena.
Yet her true womanly nature continued to
feel for his interest, and she would gladly
have shared his trials even in exile, and
wrote a letter to that effect. But if I mis-
take not, a rapid disease released her spirit
from earth, before an answer came. We
learn  from history that France was saved
by a woman at two different periods in its
history. The Maid of Orleans, Joan D'Arc,
when only seventeen years old had wisdom
given her to conquer the English troops,
and place the king upon his throne, after
he had been a refugee for three months.

[Column 2]

At different times she would express her
sentiments to people who could see the
cause as she did. But who would carry out
the plan? No one seemed willing to un-
dertake the task. When asked by the king
who would take lead in the engagement
and give orders, the reply came that she
would. He accordingly fitted her out, and
the result is recorded on history's pages.
We read that her parents were devotional
people, and taught her to reverence her
Maker; and when only a child, as she re-
tired for prayer she would frequently hear
delightful music in the air, and listen with
rapture and delight to the same. She
seemed filled with inspiration and love for
her country, with a strong desire to save it,
This she accomplished, by the help of Provi-
dence and the intelligence He gives to those
who have a pure love and intensity in a
worthy pursuit.
	Shall we forget the daughter of a Senator
of France, who would go to listen to the
speeches of the Senate? At this time Murat
was resolved upon revolutionizing France,
and had already beheaded some of her no-
bles. The soul of Charlotte Corday, a name
well known to fame, was fired at the bloody
deeds of that man. She several times
asked her father "is there no one who can
kill that man?" There seemed to be none.
She finally resolved to take the work in her
her own hands. She went to his house,
found him sick. Upon asking what should
be done with some individuals she named,
she received the reply, "They  shall die."
She then stabbed him. She remained mo-
tionless upon the spot, and when told she
should die, replied, "I expect that" She
was taken to the tower, and while on her
way there the cry came, "Take her to the
tower! take her to the tower!" She calmly
bowed her head, saying: "I am going
thither." She had previously written to
her father,asking his forgiveness for taking
this step without his consent. But this put
an end to the rebellion.
	I admit these were extreme cases. Yet
I am sure if WOMAN will give her attention
to worthy pursuits,and desire light from the
fountain, even from our Heavenly Father,
she will be qualified to fill noble positions
upon the earth, and be a blessing to society,
as well as her brother man. Let this be
our aim, and our Father in heaven will ac-
complish all that is necessary for us. This
is the faith of your sister in the Gospel,
		M. E. KIMBALL,
	Salt Lake City, March 5, 1880.


MRS. Belva  A.  Lockwood,  the  lawyer
who  was  admitted  to  practise before the
Supreme  Court  in  Washington  has  been
elected a member of the Central Republican
Committee of the District of Columbia.
	FRIDAY, March 5, Senator Thurman, re-
ported  back  to  the  Senate, from the Judi-
ciary Committee, the petition of the Ladies
Anti-Polygamy Society,  Salt  Lake  City,
which asked for  the  expulsion  of  the Hon.
George Q. Cannon.  The Committee asked
to be discharged from the further consider-
ation of the petition,  which  was granted
them.


