WHAT IS HAPPINESS?

	The pursuit of true happiness seems to be the 
most universal occupation of mankind, under-
lying every other.  In all countries, among all
classes, whether rich or poor, high  or low,
young or old, the same object  is  sought  to be
obtained, but by various  methods, namely  to
be happy.  Great blunders are made  and  im-
portant items overlooked in  striving to secure
the offective elements to produce the happiness
that will in some degree satisfy the human heart.
Men and women reach out and grasp  with
avidity  some  glittering  bauble  believing  its
possession  will bring the  partial happiness,
which is all they dare hope for, and disappoint-
ment points the sting and they turn again and 
wonder why they are not happy, and how others
succeeded where they signally failed.
 In their earnestness to find the true method of  
being happy they take no note of failures, but
still go on,  searching  for  the  true alchemy
which is to turn all it touches into gold, or tinge
with, "coleur de rose" all the common place
surroundings of life. 
	There is no royal road to fame is an old adage
which will apply with equal force to happiness,
so each one marks out his own individual path,
or follows in the beaten  track  where  some
whom fortune  seemed to  smile  upon  have
perchance  succeeded in winning a few fair
flowers or gems  of  value,  seemingly true re-
quisites of happiness.  But the capacity for en-
joyment differs  so  much  in different individ-
uals, and at the several periods of life,that there
can be no specific rules laid down; and the differ
ent organizations  and temperaments as  well
as the peculiarity, thoroughness and extent of
one's education creates distinctions that en[-]irely
overthrow any general  theory  for happiness.
Therefore no one person can really define  an-
other's happiness, or mark out  any particular
designation to pursue; but much  very  much,
depends  necessarily  upon  circumstances  and
disposition.
 The greatest of all hindrances to happiness
it seems to us lies in the fact  that one  cannot
enjoy isolated happiness.  It must be shared
and is consequently dependent  upon others.
Relatiaes and  friends  even  neighbors
are more or less involved; therefore  we are all
interdependent, our  happiness is so closely in-
terwoven  with that of others  that  unless  we
are clearly selfish, we cannot declare ourselves
wholly happy in the abstract. One's friends, com-
panions, and immediate family are all to be con-
sidered and self, is only on of the simple factors
in the sum total, which multiplied by all these
different needs and sources of happiness or un-
happiness,  keeps  on increasing  the swelling
numbers  of  elements  for happienss or  the
reverse,
 Reconsidering the subject we come to the 
conclusion  that  earthly  happiness is  only
momentary like gleams or flashes of sunlight,
and some people living in dark places, shut out
perhaps unconsciously the radiance of the sun-
shine,  which is a great purifier  and  invigorat-
or, and should penetrate  the  most remote re-
cesses of one's habitation.  So also is it wise to
economize such  rays  of happiness  as come
within one's grasp and though  they  are not 
exactly tangible yet  the  spiritual  sense can
comprehend the method of radiation and thus
cast a halo of happiness  that  will intensely
beautify the inner and even the outer life-
When darkness  enshrouds  the  mind,  Hope
the sweet angel will if  invited enter most fear-
lessly the darkest caverns of the soul  if only
one little ray  of  divine  light  shows  her  the 
footprints of her Sister  Faith,  even through a
narrow winding pathway, and pointing  with
the finger  of  inherent inspiration to  the  il-
limitable future, lift one unconsciously  above
the petty scenes and trials of to-day.
 Since mortals cannot  control  beyond  them
selves to insure happiness,  then in  what does
it consist,  or  what is understood as the fullest
happiness? The fulfillment of duty it  is often
said, but people query and hesitate in regard to 
life's highest duty.  Happiness  must  emanate
from the heart, all outward things are  but its
appendages, they cannot create it unless the 
germ is firmly  rooted within,  though they
may  minister to  it and promote  its  growth
strength and durability.
 The pursuit of happiness then  should  be the
calling into complete exercise and having under
control of a superior will, all the most exalted
faculties of the human soul.  Looking at it in
this light, the highest cultivation and exercise,
of the inner  graces, meekness, patience, long-
suffering, gentleness, kindness, goodness, faith,
cheerfulness,  temperance,  hope,  joy,  peace,
contentment, charity and love, with an un-
wavering trust in God would produce that hap-
piness which would lift one above all the ills of 
life, whatever the nature of their surroundings
might be,into an exalted atmosphere of purity
approaching that perfect state which is designa-
ted as  Paradise.


