WHO ARE NOT ENTITLED.
	Should women, because they are women,
really not be entitled to hold offices of trust
or profit, in States and Territories? In the
name of common sense, we ask, why?
	To be entitled  must in  reason mean to
be qualified to do the most  and best  good,
in that office for the public welfare.
	To say, that there are  no public offices of
trust and profit, that woman can fill as well
as man; is an assertion, which is not worthy
of being disproved.  We  will  merely say,
there is not a man, whose opinion a woman
should  care  anything about; but  what
knows better.
	It has been sown  broadcast, that the care
of “home” devolving  upon  woman,  dis-
qualifies her to hold offices  of  trust and pro-
fit.  But it is just for the sake of that Home,
that qualified  persons,  whether  men or
women, desire to be entitled to hold offices
of trust and profit.
	We maintain, that, to assert that women
on account of being women, should be unfit
to hold offices  of trust and  profit, is sheer
nonsense, and does  not  merit  to  be  met
with an argument.
	A thief,a liar, a  drunkard, a debauchee, a
profaner of the name of God, will wherever
put, be a traitor to the trust of an office in
the public service.  He may  be ever so in-
telligent a rascal, he is unfit, nevertheless.
	But, that women should, be non-entitled,
because they are women, is an outrage upon
reason, and a torture to sound sense.
	We do  not  consider  it  good  policy,  to
court public litigation in our  behalf.  And
we do not do it.  Plese don’t infringe upon
the "right” of our EXPONENT.  We do like,
	To give our say,
	In our own way,
And there will be no litigation, when  the
time comes,  this  little  deformity  in our
Statutes, will be set  right, and without lit-
igation, we venture to predict.
	We see that the seeming suddenness of
this question has had a queer effect on some
brains.  But, a little time for consideration,
on the sweeping  term of  the  language of
our Statute:  "Neither  shall  any person  be
entitled to hold any office of trust or profit,
in  the  territory  unless “he" is a “male”
(the ludicrousness of the language almost
nullifies  the  intended meaning of the sec-
tion) citizen of the United States, will settle
that question for the good of all.
	Truth will prevail.”
		H. M.
Gunnison Feb. 16th 1880.


