ARE WE TO HAVE A HOSPITAL.

	DEAR EXPONENT: Some three years ago, the 
necessity for a Public Hospital was discused
quite freely. About every one who gave even
a passing thought to the subject,acknowledged
that such an institution was much needed, and 
regretted that some one did not make a move
to have it established.
	Well, so far as I know, nothing but talk has
come of it yet. But accidents happen and
people get sick all the same. We seem as far
as ever from the de[-]ired object, the possession
of a good Public Hospital, built and supported
by the Territory, free to all who might be un-
fortunate enough to need help without the
means of paying for it Surely this  Territory
is rich enough to support one such institntion
and it really is a necessity, and demands ear-
nest thought and action.
	The benevolence of such an institution would
bring its own reward. The thorough training
of nurses and the preparing of surgeons and
doctors to skillfully deal with all cases that
might be submitted to their care, is an item
which alone is well worthy of the earnest at-
tention of the most intelligent among our
people. Skilled nurses are much needed every-
where, they are of priceless worth, and there
is no fear that there will ever be too many of 
them. But few mortals, comparatively speak-
ing,have the ability to become first class nurses.
	But shall we not have a free hospital, with
wise and just overseers, where some of those


who might be educated for good nurses can
have the privilege?
	We have no place where accidents can be
skillfully treated free of cost; and accidents
seem mostly to happen to the poor. But the
rich as well as the poor get sick, and need good
nurses, and very often great suffering and per-
haps death is the result of not being able to
secure the proper help, which a trusty nurse
might have given.
	It is a great pity that it seems to be no one's
place to make any move in this direction.
Doubtless our long talked of and much needed
Public Hospital would now be in running or-
der if there were "MONEY IN IT!" Alas! for the 
selfishness of human beings! Strange selfishness
indeed if out of all the taxes paid by the
inhabitatants of our Territory it cannot afford
to es[t]ablish one free institution for the benefit
of unfortunate sufferers.
	We are supposed to be—or we suppose our-
selves to be a benevolent people. Yet this most
beneficient object, the founding of a free Public
Hospital gets no farther than empty talk, while
humanity pleads piteously for the establish-
ment of just such an institution.
	If this subject must be longer "talked," I say,
let the women of Utah "talk it up" in real ear-
nest, and u[-]ge the the men to action upon it.
	The hospitals of England are her just pride,
they are founded on the most liberal plans and 
do an amount of good that cannot be over esti-
mate.
	Oh dear! when we are well, how little we
think of the sufferings of our fellow creatures!
Do let us have a free hospital somehow, before
long!
							MARY.
Grantsville.


