OBITUARIES.

	DIED: at North Ogden; Hot Spring District,
Feb. 14th, of Erysipelas, Julia A. beloved Wife
of Edward W. Wade,and daughter of Edmund,
and Sarah Ellis. Born at Melksham, Wilt-
shire, England, April 16[-]h 1857. Aged 22, years
9 months, and 28 days. 
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO THE MEMORY OF 
SISTER JULIA A. WADE.
	Whereas, Death has come into our midst and 
taken from us our Honored Sec'y Sister Julia
A. Wade one whom we all loved and re-
spected, as an obedient daughter, an affection-
ate sister a loving wife and mother, a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and an earnest supporter of 
the Relief Society. 
	Therefore, Be it resolved by the members of
this Society, that we tender to the bereave[-]
husband  and family our sincere sympathy
and condolence, and earnestly desire that God
will  comfort them in their affliction and
strengthen them to bear up under the loss 
they have sustained.
	Resolved: that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family. A copy put upon
the records of this society. And a copy sent to
the Woman's EXPONENT with a  request
for publication.
		MARY J. MAYCOCK,
		ELIZA P. RHEES,
		ELVIRA HICKENLOOPER. 
[Bracket to the right of the 3 listed names] Committe
In behalf of the Society.

	DIED: in Cedar City Iron County Jan. 27th,
1880. of Cancer, Mary Florence, daughter of
Henry, and Eliza McConnell; She was born in
Lehi City November 20[-]h, 1860, being 19 years
2 months, and 7 days old.
Deceased was a young lady of great promise,
lively and cheerful disposition, much beloved
by her youthful companions. Was treasurer
in the Y. L. M. I. A. and we realize that we
have lost a useful member, but our loss is her 
gain.
	During her sickness, she was very patient and 
died full of faith, and in the hope of a glorious,
resurrection. 	
		E.E.L. JONES, Sec'y.
			Y. L. M. I. A.
	Cedar City Utah Feb. 23, 1880. 

	DIED: in Ogden City Tuesday Feb. 10, 1880,
of diphtheria and scarlet fever Willard aged


two years and one month, the son of Joseph A.
and Josephine Richards West.  Willard was a 
bright, promising and  interesting  child in all
respects; and was the darling of the household.
A blow such as this seems for a time to crush
the light out of the hearts of those who have
entwined their affections so fondly round the 
cherished one, and the home is darkened and
sorrow keeps a constant vigil.  But the bruised
spirit gradually recovers, and the precious light
of the holy Gospel brings a heavenly peace and 
an invigorating  power  healing  the wounds
which death inflicts: and  the  loved  ones
departed are associated in the mind as a part of 
the beautiful past, and linked with that eternal
home in the future, which is sacred and dear to 
every Latter-day Saint.
 Your darling lives and will be  waiting to
welcome his parents and  beloved ones at the
gates of the holy city, on  that eternal  shore
where there is no more pain, nor grief, nor
parting forever.
		Within the eternal home he lives again,
		Freed from the tolls of earth its grief and pain,
		He roams Elysian fields on that fair shore
		Where pain and sorrow never enter more.


