	BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Conversation is a source of much happi-
ness, and a powerful engine for instruction
and general information; it might be the
opposite, but we will not take that view of
the matter, it is always more pleasing to
contemplate the good. It is not the mere
act of talking, neither is it the greatest
talkers, who are the most conversational. I
think when we meet in our social parties,
each one should endeavor to add their quota
to the entertainment of that party for the
time being; some persons are very lively
and witty, and this exercised with kindness
and prudence, so as not to hurt any one’s
feelings, is very agreeable, and gives life to
a party. It is said that wit is a dangerous
gift, but if the heart is right and the head
clear and strong and well informed, no
matter how keen and scintillating the shafts
are they will not wound, though it is true
	“That many a shaft at random sent,
	Finds mark the archer never meant.”
But every one will at once see the spirit of
the speaker, and will parry the shaft, should
one upbraid them, without it hurting in
the least. There is also a time to speak and
a time to be silent; good listeners are quite
as efficient and quite as desirable as good
speakers,and it is necessary that they should
be quite as intelligent as the speaker. If
there is no faculty among the audience to
receive the impressions of the speaker, it
will be like watering the desert with a wa-
tering-pot! I firmly believe that an intelli-
gent company brings forth the intelligent
speakers; inspiration is felt, and ignites
inspiration. We are surrounded by silent
forces; in small or in large companies they
are there, as also in the wide expanse by
which we are enveloped. Often a word
dropped,or a remark made, will give inspi-
ration to all present, and fertilize the men-
tal organism for the rest of the assemblage.
	There is an art in conversation, and good
manners also. The most fluent, or even
gifted speaker should not monopolize the
conversation, but become silent, that others

[Column 2]
may be heard; and, indeed, it is but rarely
we meet a person so gifted that they can
hold  the attention and interest a whole
company for any considerable length of
time.
	We can do nothing well unless we make
a business of it, and conversation is cer-
tainly important and beneficial enough to
be made something of a study; that we
may do good by such an accomplishment,
for such it certainly is when excelled in.
But to be a pleasing speaker, many little
attributes and attractions must be brought
into action. I would name first the voice.
Some voices alone charm and magnetize,
and others repel and disenchant, even
though pearls might fall through them. The
better a person speaks the more anxious
every one is to hear them; and yet how
often is it that we bend our ear and bring
every faculty to a focus, and quarter them
on the mechanism of that organ till our
head aches, and after all it is only by the
keenness of our comprehension that we can
catch a word here and a aentence there that
we can string the orient pearls that fall
through the lips of the speaker. This more
especially refers to public speakers, but is
often experienced in a room also.
	When a music master gives a singing
lesson to a young pupil, the first injunction
is “open your mouth;” and this applies
equally to speaking. It is not sufficient
the lips should open, but the teeth also;
the voice should emerge from the chest
and mouth, never, oh, never through the
nose! A nasal enunciation is fearful to a
finely educated ear, and is never heard in
highly educated people. The gestures
should also be attended to; some are very
pleasing, others offensive. A highly imagi-
native, animated person can scarcely help
some gesture; there ought not to be too
much, but some are very attractive, and
have a language in themselves that need
no oral demonstration. The expression of
the face in some people while speaking is
very attractive, in others the reverse.
	Some may think all these trifles, but true
it is that “Trifles make the sum of human
things.” Demosthenes, that Prince of Ora-
tors, thought nothing a trifle, or too small
to educate his voice, which in youth was
very defective and objectionable. He put
himself through a rigid course of training
that he might acquire the hight and depth
and volume of voice that should hereafter
make him the orator that should astound
and rivet the world!
	In conversation the voice needs training,
not for power, but for attraction, for win-
ning, for clearness and efficiency. Have
we not all heard a voice, or voices, which
no time can make us forget? And the
manners and the gestures accompanying
that voice? Yea, verily—we can shut our
eyes and listen, and though years may have
passed away, times and seasons and situa-
tions and associations may have changed,
yet—hush I we hear it ringing through the
chambers of the mind, the soul, the heart
and brain, aud all respond and give back
the voice of other days, in all its force and
in all its magical whisperings!
	Conversation! Yes, all this is connected
with that sweet interchange of thought, of
experience, of biographical depiction, that
some can give so thrillingly,so delightfully,
so winningly. that it remains with us like
the music of the sea shell, ever breathing
of the ocean “to the river of our thoughts.”
What a mighty gift is the gift of speech!
How sacred we ought to hold it! And oh,
what waste, what reckless, noisy, trifling
talk our days witness. Well and wisely

[Column 3]
may we daily, hourly pray, “Set a watch
upon my mouth, and keep the door of my
lips, that I incline not to evil.” And yet
how venial this may appear beside the aw-
fully profane, the bold, daring, reckless,
dreadful language of so large a portion of
the human family. Well may it be said
that “God is love,” but equally true it is
that His is no puerile, mistaken, misjudg-
ing, unjust love; but His attributes of jus-
tice and judgment have also to be satisfied.
But let us never forget that mercy also is
there, holding her palmbranch of peace and
mediation! And all, all will be needed for
a fallen, sinful, wicked, daring world. But
I have gone rather farther than I set out
for; well, “it is written,” and I will not
erase it—I am not writing for effect, but
for truth in all things, great and small. If
have permission I will perhaps continue
this subject at a future time, for though it
may be considered a small subject, I do not 
look at it in that light, nor will any one
when they have given it a little serious
consideration. Even the salutation of a
friend in passing, may be so unique, so re-
freshing, may strike a chord of the soul
that has long lain silent, that years may
pass, times may change, but that salutation.
that manner, with its genial influence and
the effect it had upon us is still remembered,
and still makes a green spot in memory.
There are never-to be-forgotten tones—some
sweet as the whisperings of love, others
“cruel as the grave.”
	In the few hints I have thrown out I
would wish to be understood as simply de-
siring to do good, to make society agreea-
ble, and at the same time edifying, making
conversation a medium for conferring hap-
piness and real enjoyment, and a delight-
ful interchange of thought and experience.
For want of facility in speaking appropri-
ately how many good ideas and much good
feeling are lost to our surroundings, and
lies buried in the bosom where it originat-
ed, and where it is often a burden, from the 
very consciousness of inability to make it
felt or understood. You, my sisters, that
feel this, throw off this incubus, open your
mouth, and words of truth will come and
edify even yourself.


THE Woman's  Suffrage  Journal,  Man-
chester.  The  English Woman’s Revew,
London. The  National  Citizen,  Syracuse,
New York, The Woman’s Journal  Boston,
in fact all the woman’s papers recently  have
been doubly interesting  on account of  the
great  and  intelligent  public  work  that is
being done by woman, to benefit society.
Large meetings and Conventions are being
held in  various  parts  of  England,  and
speeches made that  are  bound  to  educate
and convert the people  to a  new phase of
practical effort to lift humanity  to a higher
standard of excellence.


EARLY  MARRIAGES.--Of course young
people ought to marry early, and build  up
a  home  together.  The  idea  that  a  man
must  be  wealthy  before he weds  fills the
community with  fortune seeking bachelors
and unhappy spinsters; it endangers virtue,
destroys true economy and design, and the
beneficent intentions  of the  home.  It pro-
motes vice,  idleness,  inefficiency  and  im-
becility  amongst  females, who seem from
an unsympathetic  outset  henceforward to
expect to be taken up by fortune and pas-
sively sustained and without any concern
on their part.  It is thus that a man finds
it difficult to obtain a helpmeet.


