MORGAN CITY Feb. 9, 1880.
DEAR EDITOR
	I see in your last issue a report of a meet-
ing of the R. S. of Morgan Stake during
which, a vote was taken on what is termed
the Woman’s Bill, with this result: It only
carried a minority. “All the most intel-
ligent ladies voted for it?” Your reliable
informant says,“the majority did not under-
stand it." How very obtuse!
	The persons who make the assertion, or
it's equivalent i. e. that the intelligent por-
tion of this community is the minority (for
such is the inference) ought to give us their
names. I beg leave to refute the asser-
tion.
	The portion of the audience who did not
vote for the Bill, acted thus, from a sense
of truthfulness to themselves, and not from
ignorance. They thought that by helping
themselves to many offices, now held by
men, they would perchance be bartering
their womanly modesty and gentleness, for
an easier life or a little more money.
	The “intelligent” portion of a com-
munity, may be, a mixture of the bold and
self reliant,demonstrative and conceited,the
conservative, reserved, dignified, reflecting
and cautious. Each one perhaps, bright
and intelligent, but scarcely all balanced by
wisdom.
	While I strenuously hold, that woman
ought to have a voice in the election of
officers, who are to rule over, and make
laws for the women and children as well as
the men: I think that the ladies eligible to
offices are so few, not from want of capability
but on account of youth, or family duties,
that the risks and disadvantages, incurred
by the passing of such a Bill, are at par,
with the benefit to be derived therefrom.
	I entreat you, my dear sisters, let us not
have party spirits and contentions among
us, on this or any other subject; let us not
snap at one another because we cannot all
see alike. “Charity covers a multitude of
faults,” and is more according with the
Spirit of our Divine Master.
	Your Sister in the Gospel. C. E. F.


TOO MANY GIRLS.—“Them girls’ll be the
death of me,” sighed  Mr.  Plug  this  morn-
ing as he came up street.
	“Why I thought  they  were  very nice
girls,” said a sympathizing friend.
	“So they are nice enough, but there's too
many on’em, an’ they’re too attractive,”
said the  disconsolate  patriarch. “Them
three daughters of mine were enough in all
conscience, but now  my  niece  is  up  here
from Boston,  and  it  seems  as  if  the  old
scratch  had  got in’em. I don’t object to
young folks havin’ a  good time,  and girls
haviu’beaux and all that, but when it comes
to  havin sparkin’ going  on  all  over the
place, “damme it’s too bad,” said Mr, Plug,
unconsciously  quoting from. “Pinafore.”
“Last night Sue had a feller courtin’ her at
the front gate, and Julia had her chap  in
the parlor, and when  I got  ready to go  to
bed,  bless  me, if Andromache (that's  my
niece from Boston) didn’t have young Start
spooning her on the stairs.  She says that’s
Newport style.  Cuss  such  nonsense! I
couldn’t get up stairs to go to bed without
climbin' over them, so I thought I’d go cut
to the barn and sleep on the hay but durn
my pictur, if I didn’t fall  over Millly and
some young snoozer ’nuther settin’ in the
barn door.  This thing’s got to  stop before
the cpld weather,for I can’t afford wood and
karrysene for any such  nonsense when it’s
too cold for out-door  sparkin."


