THE DIGNITY OF SELF-CONTROL.

	Among the many endowments and qualities
regarded as traits of character, not one is more
estimable or more to be desired than the
power to govern one’s self under all circum-
stances.
	A person may be brilliant and gifted in many
ways, yet wanting in this characteristic to any
great degree,is always in danger of being made
to appear very small and insignificant by the
loss of temper in trivial affairs. While others,
far less talented, often seem greatly superior to
such a one, through simply possesing the
power of self-control.
	Happily, this virtue, like all others, if not
altogether natural to an individual, may be ac-
quired by careful cultivation. And the earlier
it is implanted in the heart of youth, the easier
will be the process of culture, and the more
satisfactory the results which follow.
	This is a subject upon which the parent's of
young children cannot bestow too much atten-
tion and care. Every true parent has a desire
to see its offspring grow and develop into
something truly good, noble and beautiful.
Among the Latter-day Saints, whether else-
where in the world or not, this desire is, I be-
lieve, paramount to all others.
	But let us remember here, that in general
instances, though there may be rare and strange
exceptions, ‘,Like produces like." Why then


should we desire or expect of our children
greater or better work than we can bring our-
selves to be capable of? Let us also bear in
mind that "All wiss government begins with
self-government," and never, never be guilty
of correcting a child in  anger.
	If we only begin and continue in the right
way ourselves, we may as easily make true
gentlemen and ladies, or true men and women,
of our sons and daughters, as by taking the
opposite course we help them to become  bores
and clogs in society, at home, or wherever
they happen to find themselves.
	A very young child may be taught self-res-
pect and self-command so far that in cheerfully
complying with the wishes  of  others.  it  will
manifest a love and sense of duty to a suprising
extent.  But this ple[-]si[-]g result can never be
obtained by driving with whips or threats un-
til through fear of punishment it will sullenly
yield obedience.  Neither will a few co[-]xing
words followed by a sha[-]p rebuke have any
tendency to lead a child into the straight path
of honor—honor for its parants, itself and for
all correct principals.
	The man who suffers himsell to be thrown
into passion, and allows his tongue to u[-]t[-]r
unreasonable and unseasonable words, gains
no respect, but deserved  contempt from  his
fellow-men.  And the parent  who  manifests
like weakneeses in the presence  of its child, is
only planting in the youthful  mind  seeds of
distrust, which are likely to ripen into disrespect
and disobedience.
	Firmness and gentleness, patience in teach-
ing and conistency in all requirements are
qualities necessary to be  exercised in directing
the youthful mind. And the proper exercise
of these faculties can only be sustained by strict
self-discipline,
	If we would be honored by our children, re-
spected by our neighbors and blest of our heav-
enly Father, though humble and child-like,
though wearing no other dignity, we  must
possess the dignity of self-control.
								LULA.


