	BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD
		E. W. Wells

	"Life is real-life is earnest" said the poet
which is all very true, and should be duly
appreciated, but nevertheless, we must
have a vien of humor to relieve the con-
stant strain of duties, cares and burdens
that necessarily cast a sombre shade over
life’s path-way, and were it not that some
happy incident, trivial in itself, yet ludi-
crous, occurs now and then, we might get
long-faced and sterotyped, in view of the
great responsibilities that attend our daily
lives.
	We want humor in all the departments
of life; deep thinkers,sober-staid counselors,
men and women of impassioned eloquence
and sound judgment are all good and essen-
tial to the well being of comunnities, but
after all, if wit, humor and the comic is
interspersed,then the seasoning is furnished
and the different varieties garnished,which
is quite as necessary to make things pala-
table as the more substantial.
	Who pray tell me does not like a good
joke, (at some one else’s expense?) Who
does not enjoy a sharp critticism well-timed?
And who indeed does not like to indulge now
and then in innocent mirth?
		A little nonsense now and then,
		Is relished by the best of men.”
	And woman too, I should have  added
had I written i[-], for women really do stand
in need of something to brighten their toil 
and monotony in the midst of  domestic
cares; and often,though perhaps I ought not
to tell it the call of a cheerful friend who
comes with gossip only, is hailed with joy
as a sort of temporary relief.
	I confess a weakness for funny people,those
who always have an answer ready on every
occasion,whatever the question may be, and
who possess the charming faculty of making
people laugh whether they will, or no.
Kind readers you may think there is very
little sound philosophy in this sort of thing,
but I assure you on my honor, as-well, as a
woman, that it is true philosophy and I
can, prove it too,that is to my satisfaction.
	I always had a sort of admiration  for
peoplewho could say very funny things; and
when I was a child, and everything about
the house was very prim and precise after
the old Puritanic style, where nothing
must be put out of place, I would hie me

[Column 2]
away to the fields to break the restraint,
and talk to myself in the grand, old woods,
where my merry childish tones were re-
echoed again and again, in richer melody,
and something seemed to whisper to me
ever so softly, from the tops of the  tall.
pine trees; Shall I tell you what it said?
Well,yes. Sometimes it said "be happy
while the sun shines and the birds carol;
and all nature is gay and smiling." And I
felt sure the daisies heard it too, for they
nodded back sweetly, and the proud lilies
blushed, redder than ever, and the babbling
tell-tale brook echoed it merrily, as it
danced gleefully along skipping laughingly
over the sparkling pebbles and shining sands
	I have often thought how nice it would 
be to have some of the Irish people with
their native wit and real genuine humor
scattered here and there just to brighten
things up generally.
	And now for a little philosophy; I might
tell you some anecdotes by way of illustra-
tion but will forbear this time and only give
a little experience of my own. When
we were traveling across the plains, jour-
neying to these "happy valleys" we had
with us a good old fashioned Welsh woman
whom we all designated “grandma” and
she kept us in almost perpetual good hu-
mor with her comical jokes and fun. No
matter how serious the obstacles were in
our way, she could always see the funny
side of everything, and many a time she
has made me laugh when I was about to
cry, thereby not only making things more
pleasant and easier to bear, but saving me
from many a nervous head ache. I often
remarked she was the life of the company, 
for she never seemed at a loss for a joke,
and possessed that peculiar tact which kept
her from ever giving any offence, however
close home her witticisms come.
	What a dry, prosy world this would be
without any of the freshness and vivacity 
of merry people; and one would always
rather laugh than  cry  if possible. It is
better to be goodnatured or gay than to pull
a long face and make one’s self and friends
miserable. There are troubles, trials and
difficulties enough without courting gloom,
and so we say “be happy” and try to make
others so, and cultivate the rare gift of 
giving pleasures to others innocently. 
	Writing sparkling, witty,brilliant articles
might be the means of diffusing happiness,
and a story that will make you laugh, and 
at the same time has a good moral is worth
much more than a sensational.  or lacka-
daisical one. Public speakers often make 
strong impressions by funny anecdotes
which engrave the ideas they wish to
convey upon the mind, and this recalls to
my recollection one funny little story, which 
being a woman I would like to tell. It is
the story of a peddler and a miller’s wife. 
“The, miller used to enforce upon his wife
the doctrine that men always know better 
what, was good for women, than women
could know for themselves: and so the poor
woman whenever the peddler came to the
door, took all the goods he urged upon her,
because she was only a woman, and he was
a man and knew best. The miller had to
pay the bill; unfortunately he did not see
that it was only the fulfillment of his own 
doctrine.”


