	IDAHO, JAN. 5, 1880.

	Woman’s Rights, or Woman’s Question,
is now assuming extensive proportions, and
should continue to expand until woman’s
power is felt in every department of life.
You cannot take up a paper but you find
the subject presented in its different phases.
occasionally you will find a man who has
independence and good judgment sufficient
to defend our position and advocate our
claims; while again you will find a class of
men who secretly admire a woman who has
intelligence and independence enough to
maintain and contend for her rights, but
fear we might peradventure try to usurp
their rights or that we were stepping just
a little out of our sphere, thus preventing
them from defending our position and
claims. There is still another class of men
who come out quite fierce, and rabid against
Woman’s Rights. This class have wonder-
ful imaginations, and picture in the most
glowing colors a home neglected, children
running around with unkempt hair, stock-
ings abbreviated, or as some would call it a
footless stocking without a leg, as the con-
sequences or results of a woman daring to
think, or allowing her mind to soar higher
than the roof of her own house. But this
is going to the extreme, as even men often
allow themselves to go.
	Now, the first class mentioned we appre-
ciate, owing to the scarcity of such. To
the second class of men we would say, be
bold, come to the front, as it is not our in-
tention to try to eclipse, or to usurp your
rights, but simply to hold and claim our
own. The third class of men we would
disabuse of some of their erroneous views,
by letting them know that we do not pur-
pose to enter into any subject, or enterprise,
to the disregard of home comfort, or to the
discomfort of husbands and children.
	We claim that woman can exercise her


intellectual faculties, and  that  to the mate-
rial benefit of her  offspring,  without  being
stigmatized  as  strong-minded.  It would
be a poor  specimen  of a  man  who would
prefer a weak-minded woman, if permitted
the term, which is only  opposite  to the
other. We should be  allowed to  express
our opinions, and have a perfect right to
those opinions, providing we bring argu-
ment to bear in support of them.  All this
can be  done and  still make home the most
attractive place to our husbands.  We would
repeat that we  don't wish, I say  we, for I
know it would meet with a hearty response
in the hearts of all the ladies present, to
put the rights of the sterner sex in the
shade, but simply to claim that woman was
created for a nobler purpose than devoting
all her time to common drudgery; and all
the compensation for this  is  our  husband's
protection.  Now, we do not wish to scorn
their protection, in fact, we would hardly
like to confess  how highly we prize  it; all
we wish is to claim it from an intelligent
standpoint.  True, they are all willing to
concede to us the right to marry, and some-
times I am tempted to think that they are
prompted  to  that  from  selfish  motives,
namely, self-comfort.  Perhaps they would
like to argue that point.
	The ladies of Utah have sent in a petition
to  the Legislative Body  now  assembled,
praying the passage of a bill, or some enact-
ment, that will remove the obstacle now in
the way of woman holding office.  Now,
that we hold as one of woman's rights, pro-
videing she is as well qualified, and has as
large a brain as her contestant for that office,
and the same compensation I consider her
right for the performance of that trust.
	The unmarried  ladies  and  widows of
Idaho Territory  are  allowed  to  vote  for
School Trustees, or anything  pertaining to
school interests, and we hope that the full
right of suffrage  will be  ours at no distant
day.					L. M. Hart.


