WOMAN'S RIGHTS AND MISSION.

	Woman's rights and mission have been
the THEME for many years.  Various have
been  the  opinions  of  the  sexes;  and  to a
great extent the advocates on both sides are
all extremists.  There has been a continual
warfare  as  to  what position women should
hol[-] on  this  planet  of  darkness;  even on
her social  rights,  the  relation she holds  to
her husband, her children, and to the world
at large.
 Some give their  opinions that woman's
position  is  equal  to  that of man in every
sense  of  the word;  others, that she is only
a  beautiful  piece  of  machinery,  made  to
order.  Turned  by  the  wheels  of nature,
her movements  are  mechanical; she eats,
drinks, sleeps, and  performs her daily rou-
tine of labor (that labor which  has been  set
apart for her by the lords of creation), hav-
ing, seemingly, no object  in view but  that
which supplies their physical wants, and  no 
duty to perform except that which grows
out of the animal instincts and no special
destiny to fulfill.
	The ideas  of  the  mass  in  regard to wo-
man's rights and mission, and also her mo-
tives, are erroneous.  The woman who takes
a stand  for  her rights is pictured by  some
as a tall, gaunt being, clad  in  nondescript
garments, with book under her arm, taking
rapid  strides  through streets and lanes, on
her way to some public  office, or lecture-
room, turning neither to the right nor left,
for fear she should meet that  monster, man.
Possibly some may answer this description,
but they are the few.
 Women generally are true to their natures,
but their motives  are  seldom  understood.
Pass by the appearance, and look at the 
hearts, the acts, of  these noble women, and 
you  will  see  their  motives  are pure, and
they work  for  the  exaltation, and not the
degradation, of  their  species.  Their aims
are  high,  their lives are useful, effective
and virtuous.  In them we see life, energy
and purpose, and we are forced to admire a
fully developed soul, even if  that soul be a
woman. The deeds of these noble women
will float around them, like the glory of the 
departing  day, or  the  gentle  breeze of an
evening's summer wind.
 Again, the  old  maid  is  laughed  at, and 
jeered at, because she is considered to have
no rights, or mission; she is  treated with
contempt  by those who are styled woman's
natural protectors.
 Woman was given  to man, by the Maker
of the universe, to be a helpmeet and bless-
ing,  that he, with her, might attain to that
exaltation which  rightly  belongs to  those
who faithfully  fulfill  the  object  of  their 
creation.
 Man, when true  to  his  nature, is noble
and  brave; the  woman, gentle  and pure;
and both  combined form  a  perfect whole.
Women naturally seem  to  more  fully un-
derstand the  object  of  their creation than
men; no matter what any one may say to
the contrary, there are but few women who
would not  gladly fulfill their mission, and 
have their womanly rights, if the opportu-
nity were given them;  but  man-made sys-
tems have changed the whole tenor of their 
lives, and many naturally pure and virtuous
beings  accept  degraded  positions,  forced
upon them  through circumstances by those
who claim to be their natural protectors and
guides.
 The berated  Mormon (I will not say de-
spised, for he is only envied) is able to com-
prehend and and accord to women, in a larger
and truer sense, their  rights, and open the
way for them  to  fulfill their mission upon
the earth,  which is the position of an intel-
ligent, capable, helpful wife and mother.
 Woman from the cradle is instinctively a
mother;  with  the  girl  the  dolls  take  the
place of  the  babe, and she dresses, pets, or
scolds it just as earnestly as the real mother.
The intelligent  woman  makes her home
pleasant and happy, if she is permitted the
precious  boon  of  a true home, to  her hus-
band,  children  and  friends.  She spends
the greater  portion  of her time wisely, in
home duties, administering  to the wants of 
her family, singing the sweet lullaby, teach-
ing her children the ways of life and salva-
tion;  giving a cheering word  of  counsel or
a helping  hand  to her  neighbors;  her lei-
sure moments are spent in instructive read-
ing, in  writing  some pleasing  article (if a
Mormon, for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT), and
in doing anything  that tends to the im-
provement  of the  mind and the  exaltation
of the soul.
 Come with  me, and I will show  you a
woman that fully understands  and  appre-
ciates her rights  and  mission.  It is but a
few steps.  See  that  pretty cottage  partly
concealed  with  roses,  honeysuckle  and
sweetbriar; note  the  nice  graveled  walk
leading  to  the  house, the tastily arranged
beds  of  flowers, the very air  is filled with
the perfume of the sweet-scented  beauties
of nature;  list  to  the  merry  choristers, as
they flit from  tree  to  tree;  how  homelike
and beautiful everything appears.
 It is evening, and  this room seems to be
the pleasant room  of  the  house;  let  us take
a  peep at its contents.  In front of the win-
dow stands a small  table;  on  it  are  books,
pens, ink and paper.  What have we here
a blue stocking?  Oh, no;  only  a  woman
who  understands  her  rights and mission.
See!  she has been writing;  let us read what
she says:  "In reading the papers, I am as-
tonished at  the  pros  and  cons  of  the  free
and  liberal  citizens  of  Utah.  Can  it be
possible that  a  Latter day Saint  of  either
sex objects to the rights  of  women, as de-
fined in the recent petition to the Legisla-
tive  Assembly  of  the  Territory  of  Utah?
Are there sisters in Utah who are so igno-
rant, and so  far  behind  the  spirit  of the
times, as not to appreciate  or understand 
their rights  as free women?  Do they not
want the  privilege  of  the  franchise,  or
more, the right  and might to  choose those
who are capable to hold office of  either sex?
Do some of our brethren  think we  intend
to monopolize  this  little  world, and leave
them out  in the cold?  "Be  of  good cheer,
O ye  of  little  faith," such is not  our  in-
tent."  Here the subject is hastily left.
 Let us  continue  our  investigation. In
the centre of  the room stands a table, spread
with snowy cloth and shining  dishes; not
costly viands  meet  the  eye,  but  simple,
healthy  food.  Nice  white bread, sweet,


home-made butter, honey, culled from the
sweets of flowers, pure, sparkling water,
and milk for the babes. The arm-chair is
drawn to the cheerful fire, with a cosy look
of invitation for some loved one; note the 
expectant look of that neatly dressed moth-
er, the prattle of the little oues asking when
father will come. What a spirit of peace
and purity pervades the whole!
	Hark! a heavy tread is heard on the 
graveled walk, a hand is laid on the door,
it opens, and the little ones are caught to
father's breast. See th[-] tear in the moth-
er's eye, the happy smile on her face, and 
tell me if this is not a true picture of a wo-
man who has the rights most congenial, and 
who fully understands her mission.
		M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.
	Kanab, Feb. 24, 1880.


