OF THE SOCIETY.

 The courtesy of Christ, divinely true,
Render'd to all the honor justly due;
That all meant woman too-we comprehend
That Jesus was, and is a woman's friend;
From His rebuke so brave, so wise, so true,
Her vile traducers silently withdrew;
Nor was He willing that a woman should 
Be frown'd upon, for "doing what she could."

In these the latter-days there is reserved,
Honor for woman, and 'tis well deserved,
For women labor for most worthy ends,
Amid the sneers of foes, and so call'd friends,
Upheld by conscience; (their reward's ahead-
Right is their aim, no matter what is said:
And they are mere determined, not deterr'd
Where men would sink, without a cheering word.

To help the weary, and revive the faint,
Is worthy of the woman and the Saint,
"It is religion, pure and undefiled:
To bless the widow and the orphan child,"
To clothe the naked, succor the distress'd:
And comfort all by circumstance opprest;
To lead the young in wisdom's pleasant way,
To turn them back who from the right may stray.
Freedom and ease to daily sacrifice,
That others may a blessing realize
Think you though praise may be by man deferr'd,
That no reward will be by heaven conferr'd?
God sees such laborers, owns their work divine,
And brighter than the stars their crowns shall shine.

But woman should acknowledge woman's worth;
Should give her sisters credit here on earth;
And all who labor for  public weal
Should be approv'd, lest they discouraged feel;
Or man or woman who devote their days
To doing good shall have their meed of praise,
And hence we meet this afternoon to pay--
A tribute of respect (in woman's way)
To one so well and favorably known,
'Tis hardly needed that her worth we own,
And yet in justice 'tis but right we should
Make some expression of our gratitude.

Dauntless, yet diffident, unmoved by scorn,
A constant helper-such is Sister Horne.
Her works will praise her, not alone in time,
Eternity will show results sublime.
A faithful mother in a twofold sense,
Broad as her aims, shall be her recompense;
And God we know will fittingly repay,
One who has never falter'd by the way.

Meantime dear president, dear sister too,
We deem it proper to present to you
*This token of esteem, that you may feel
Your sisters do appreciate your zeal:
Though small the demonstration that we make,
Accept it kindly for affection's sake.

You wish from public duties to retire,
We meet with cordial protest- our desire
Is, that your presence and experience too
May yet assist us in our labors true:
And to this end, your friends and sisters pray
That God will give you strength for many a day.
EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S.L. City, Feb. 4th, 1880.
*A gold watch and chain.


[Column 1]
