LEGISLATIVE PROCEEDINGS.

 The Legislature has adjourned, the forty
days of continuous labor for the public weal
are over and  the country  members have
returned to their homes and local duties.
It has been a very interesting session, new
members have brought into the house a
freshness and intense interest that always
accompanies new duties, while wise and
able men who have sat year alter year, give
dignity and weight to the entire proceed-
ings.  Altogether they have accomplished
a large amount  of  legislative  work  which
will no doubt add much to the welfare, hap-
piness aud prosperity  of  the people  of the
Territory.
	Alter some discussion and  opposition the
House passed  the  bill  H. F. No. 1, “To re-
move the political disabilities of the women
of Utah.” It was taken from the table on
motion of Hon. W. B. Preston and read the
second time by sections: on motion of Hon.
J. B. Murdock it was read the third time
by its title and on motion of Hon. A. Mc-
Kinnon, passed.
	On motion of Hon. Joel Grover the  ayes
and noes were called and counted.
	Ayes: Messrs,  Fisher,  Francis, Gardner,
Horne, Jaques,  Johnson,  Lyman,  McKin-
non,  Murdock, Penrose, Peterson, Preston,
Snow, Thompson and the Speaker.
	Noes. Dusonberry, Farr, Grover,  Hatch,
Pack, Peery, Sharp and Smith.  The votes
stood 15 to 8, three members, Messrs. Car-
rington, Winn and Snell, declined voting
at all.  The ladies  should  remember  that
the Hon. Orson Pratt asked the privilege of
the House to vote upon the Woman’s Bill.
	The till passed the Council without a neg-
ative vote and in order that their names be
remembered as associated with this subject
we publish them that it may be recorded
to their honor  that they were anxious to
remove every bar in the way of woman’s
advancement to political equality, with her
brother men.	
	Messrs. Smoot, Smith,Wells, E. Snow, Caino,
Barton, Fotheringham,  Thurber,  Teasdale,
Cluff,  Harrington, Merrill.
	The bill was sent to His Excellency, the
Governer, who treated  it  with  silent  con-
tempt, as he did a similar bill two years
ago.  If the ladies did not possess an abund-
ant proportion of the true elements of
Christian charity they would certainly con-
sign His Excellency to oblivion.  As it is
they owe him no thanks  for favors, de-
nied.


A GOOD EXAMPLE:—Iowa has seven lady
Superintendents of schools

	THE Duchess of  Marlborough  in a  letter
to the LordMayor,of London acknowledging
2, 000, says if the charity  of  the  public
continues no person in Ireland need be al-
lowed to die for lack  of food  but  the  com-
mittee must spend over 40, 000, per week
for six weeks more.


