IN MEMORIAM.

 With  feeling  of sadness  we  record the  de-
parture of another loved one.  After suffering
for several years from disease of the heart, So-
phia  Wickens  Freeze,  wife  of J. P. Freeze of
the 11th Ward, passed from earth to  that blest
abode  of rest  and  peace,  on  Friday,  Dec. 19,
1879.  She was born May 1, 1852, and like the
month that gave her birth, she ever shed a
halo of light and love o’er all around.
	She was one of those rare creatures of earth
whose character  was  stamped with  pure wo-
manliness, yet power to grace any avocation of
life.  Though  young  in  years, her devotion
and f[-]ithfu[-]ness  as a mother could not be  ex-
celled.  She was also Counselor in the M. I  A.
of the 11th  Ward, and energetic in all her du-
ties as a  Saint of God.  She leaves one child
and numerous relatives and friends  to  mourn
her early loss.
	"We live in deeds, not years;
	In thoughts, not breaths;
	In feeling, not in figures on a dial.
	He lives most who thinks most,
	Feels the noblest, acts the best.”

	Sophia, queen of song and love.
	Oh, gentle as the springtime dove,
	Pure and chaste in every thought;
	Heavenly light thy soul had taught,
	Inspiring thee to love the right, 
	And to thy friends impart delight.
						I. V. H. 

	We, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Goshen, Utah County, U. T, respectfully sub-
scribe,this memorial to our departed sister,Clara
Fanny  S. Dall, daughter of the late Henry
David and Fanny S. Dali, of this  place;  she
died, from  the effects of diphtheria,  Jan. 20,
1880, Clara was born in Salt Lake City,
Aug. 6, 1865,died aged 14 years, 5 months and
14 days.
	In memory of our much esteemed and be-
loved sister and co worker, who has, by Divine
Providece, been  removed  by  the  hand of
death; she being a member of the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Goshen.
	Be it resolved  that we, the members of the
Association, deeply mourn her loss, and sym-
pathize  with  the bereaved; mother, relatives
and friends in the loss of so good and esteemed
a friend.
	Resolved, that we tender our heart felt sym
pathy for  the  loss  of  so kind  and amiable a
companion and affectionate daughter.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions, be
transmitted to the mother of the deceased, and
that they be recorded  in  our  general  record,
and also furnished for  publication in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT.
	Goodby, dear Clara, we miss thy face,
	Thy loving smile and gentle grace;
	Gone to thy Father on that happy shore,
	Where pain and sorrow thou wilt share no more.
		RACHEL EDWARDS,
		LUCY TAYLOR. 			Committee.
