ANOTHER WOMAN’S OPINION.

	Partly to oblige a dear friend  and  partly
from the lively  interest I feel in  our  com-
mon cause, I venture  to  address you  on a
subject of vital interest  to  us all,  viz.  The
action of the Territorial  Legislature  in re-
lation to  the Bill  concerning  the  Political
Disabilities of women.
	To begin  with  the  phrase  has  a  very
unpleasant  sound  to  my  ears.  Why not
the political disabilities  of men as  well, or
rather, the political disabilites of citizens of
both sexes, when ignorance, vice, or mental
incapacity render it subversive, of the pub-
lic weal to allow such persons to receive
offices of public trust.  But why this invi-
dious distinction as regards sex.  Is not the
average woman morally and mentally equal
to the average man?
	Does it follow  from the mere  fact  of  a
public officer's being awoman citizen and in
every way fitted for the duties of her office,
except of course the grave offence of being a
woman, that she will any the less faithfully
and  conscientiously  perform those  duties
from the mere accident of sex, or is she any
more liable  to perjure herself and abscond
with the public funds  which  may  be  en-
trusted to  her  keeping,  than  her  brother
man under the same circumstances.  I hope
and trust  that our wise  law-makers  will
cease to allow such  a libel on their  wives,
mothers and daughters to exist  except as a 
relic of the superstition of a past age.  And
here another important phase of  this vexed
question presents itself.
	Granted for argument's sake that woman
is eligble to public office does it not natural-
ly follow that if she performs the same work
as her predecessor and performs it as well
should she receive the same remunreation?
It is sometimes  argued  that men should 
receive more  wages  than  women  on the
ground they  have families  to  support
either present or  prospective, in my hum-
ble opinion this is a distinction  without a
difference,  for  in  my  experience  I have
never known a single instance where a true
wife and mother has used her personal earn-
ings (when she is so  fortunate as  to have
any) for self aggrandizement,  the  result is
always apparent in some added  home com-
fort, something for the little ones thus light-
ening her husbands burdens, or in a gift to
the poor and needy.  Such being the case
should she not have the self-respect and satis-
faction of knowning that her time and brains
are as valuable as her hubsand's, when per-
forming the same duties.  And here arises
another difficulty.
	Many of our opponents seem to think if
the Woman's Bill eventually becomes a law
that all women, regardless of home  duties
or qualifications for office will  speedily de-
generate into that most  contemptible  class
of God's creatures office seekers.
	Now, from my knowledge of our virtues
and their aims and  purposes a  greater fal-
lacy  does  not  exist.  Certainly  not  one
woman in a hundred can leave her home to
preform the duties pertaining to any public
office probably a less  proportion  have any
inclination in that direction, but we wish to
feel that we have the right to hold positions
of public trust, where we are mentally and
morally capable and when we represent the
will of a  majority  of  our  fellow citizens.
	In short we have grown  tired, as  Mrs.
Stanton, pertinently remarks of  being classed
with idiots, lunatics  and criminals. It  is
true we have the  right  of sufferage but is
that all, this shadow without  the  substance,
that our brethren can afford  to  give us,  the
women of Utah, co-workers  with  them  in
the  redemption  of Zion, and  the  upbuilding
of the kingdom of the Latter days.  Never-
theless we  feel and believe  that  our cause
will eventually prevail and in  that  day  we
shall be proud to remember and do honor to
our gallant defenders.
	Although our political fate is still trembl-
ing  in  the  balance,  yet  we  hope  against
hope that our Legislators will be the  pion-
eers in this great reform, as well as in many
other  great  and  good  works beretofore.
But if  the golden opportunity is allowed  to
pass now two years hence may be too late to
confer upon them the proud  distinction  of
being first to bestow political freedom  upon
any portion of the female  citizens  of this
great Republic.  However liberty is  worth
waiting for and we bide our  time  trusting
to an overruling Providence for the result.
				EQUAL RIGHTS.
Manti Feb. 15, 1880.


