PIPSEY PAPERS.—NO. 11.

	A good book is to the mind what whole-
some food is to the body, it strengthens life
and gives food for reflection.  This may
not be "original" but it is true.  Starving
the mind dwarfs the  intelligence  and nar-
rows the  capacity  for  enjoyment.  The
heart grows selfish  and the burdens of life
accumulate, not, perhaps, in numbers, but
in weight.  The mind is less elastic and
takes more note of trifles, easier vexed and
annoyed. I often  hear  ladies say,  they
cannot  take  periodicals  for  they  have
no  time  to  read.  That is  wrong.  They
have no right to starve  themselves in such
a way.  How  can  they  do  their  duty as
wives and mothers if they encase them-
selves in a shell  of ignorance?  They may
pass their lives in labor and care, their
children may be the cleanest,  and their
homes the neatest, or they may pass it in
crimping their hair and ruflling their dress-
es, what matters it?  These  things  please
the eye, but they pass away, and what re-
mains?
	They fill the measure  of  their lives in  a
degree, and pass off, and who shall rise up
to call them blessed?  True, they have toiled
and  drudged,  they  have  given  of their
strength to the uplifting of  their burdens,
but have they given of their capacity, if
they have failed to cultivate their intel-
ligence?
	How shall they learn of the beautiful
things of life if they know nothing beyond
the gossip of the neighborhood: and, know-
ing so little, how shall they impart wisdom
to their children, or train them for the
higher purposes of life? “How,” says one,
“shall a woman with little  children in  her
arms, and the duties of  life  pressing upon
her, find time to read?” She may not read
lengthy or monotonous works in a compre-
hensive manner,for when the body is weary
the mind is weak, and cannot concentrate
its powers to understand scientific treatises,
or works of magnitude.  She cannot be
benefitted by that which requires profound
thought or deep study.  But that is no rea-
son why a woman should not read.  There
is plenty of reading which is bright and at-
tractive.  Short paragraphs or pleasant pic-
tures of life that may call the attention, and
leave pleasant  impressions on the mind.
Such reading  rests the nerves and invigor-
ates the body.  Some classes  of light  lit-
erature are demoralizing in their  influence
over the  imagination.  They  vitiate the
taste and corrupt the minds of young people.
	There are, however, articles  from  the
pens of our best writers that, although ficti-
tous are true to life; “that point a moral,”
and are in their nature instructive and in-
teresting.  I am not  arguing in favor  of
light reading,  only  suggesting  that  some
classes  of  light  reading  are  beneficial.
While we should not spend our lives simply
in amusement, we should not ignore amuse-
ment entirely.
	How often when we sit down to rest, the
mind is kept  from  repose by reflecting on
annoyances that are past or the duties of the
future: while if we take up some little
reading that is restful and instructive to
attract our attention, be it prose or poetry,
truth or fiction, it gives repose to the mind,
and implants in our hearts a  higher  stand-
ard of life, and an ambition to reach out for
that which is beautifying and  ennobling:
and we arise to our labors rested and refresh-
ed, with food for pleasant  thoughts.  Our
tasks seem lighter and the world looks fair-
er, and everything  partakes of the  bright-
ness and elasticity of our hearts.
	There are those no doubt, having plenty
of time for instructive  reading, who spend
it foolishly.  Who fritter away the precious
moments of life which are given them for a
better purpose, in pampering  pride and
frivolity. Their labors  are  unsatisfactory,
and when age shall come  upon  them  they
will have no store of knowledge to comfort
their  declining  years.  Reading  alone
should not engross  our  time;  there are
many things in practical life that demand
our attention; many  things necessary to
study  in  the  laws  of  progression.  We
should try to keep up with the times in
which we live that we may be interesting
and instructive companions to our young
people.  In that way we can  best  get  an
influence over their minds to guard  them
from the follies and  temptations that sur-
round them.
	A mother has no right  to  consider her
duties done when  her  children can attend
to their personal wants.  She must cultivate
her mind that she may be enabled  to  lead
them on lest they,in their “higher educa-
tion,” go out of her depth and elude  her
grasp.
 To do this is necessary to mingle  some-
what in society; that she may know what
kind of company her children are keeping,
and how to regulate  their  manners and
habits. She should take pains  to have her
mind well informed that she may be able to
instruct and entertain them.  It will give
them a higher estimate of their parents in a
social point of view, and lead them to more
harmonious relations in life.
	A woman should never indulge in what
is commonly called "Novel reading," that
is, the course of reading which swallows
up everything in its eager grasp for excite-
ment, to the detriment of all the higher
duties of life: that causes a woman to sit
down in the “ashes” with her breakfast
dishes on the table, to read some thrilling
adventure  until the clock admonishes her
that it is time to prepare dinner.  She must
finish just one more thrilling episode, and
at last lays down her book,with head aching
and nerves all in disorder, to look around
at her more disordered house: manages to
get on the table an  unappetizing, unsatis-
factory dinner by the time her husband
comes from his work,and, perhaps, to avoid
fault-finding or ill  nature in him  excuses
herself on the plea of headache.  Such read-
ing is demoralizing, and far worse than
none.
	Let us, then, avoid extremes and take a
medium course. Work a little  faster, per-
haps, to gain  time  to  learn  the  current
events of the  day, or  watch  the  rise  and
progress of nations, and learn what is going
on in  the  great  world  around us.  Sub-
scribe for a few choice periodicals, if our
means will admit of it.  Buy a  few  good
books and read them.
	Sketches of history,  Biography, Travels
and other standard  works, not forgetting
the Bible and  Church  works  should fill a
corner of every home, and be most carefully
studied.
							MARY.


