THE WEIGHT OF BRAIN.

	I have recently read several highly interest-
ing articles  relative  to  the  inferiority  of wo-
man's brain.  The writers base their claim on
the lesser weight of the female brain.  A man
is eminently superior  to a woman  because his
brain weighs more, and they cite  many  in-
stances  to  prove the  theory:  And in face of
all this convincing  proof  presented  to  me, I
cannot believe it.  Women are just learning
how much  they may know, and are proving
every day that they are man's equal in intel-
lect if not in strength.  Woman in the past
has not been allowed the privilege to develop
her faculties, but she is now thrusting the bar-
rier aside that has so long checked her intellec-
tual growth, and now stands the peer of man.
The ninteenth century should boast  of the
intellect of woman.  We find her actively en-
gaged in  nearly all the pursuits to which man
is eligible.  I think it is not the weight of the
brain which decides the superiority of the sex,
but the cultivation of it.  Who will deny that
George Eliot  is  an equal and an  able  writer
and  clear  thinker with man?  And Rosa Bon-
heur as  an  artist, Anna Dickenson a lecturer,
Elizabeth  Cady  Stanton  a  woman  who has


achieved an enviable reputation as an espouser
of woman’s rights.  These are only a few, but
they are a positive proof  of  what has been done
and what can be  done.  I  do  not  claim  any
superiority  of the  female  sex, but I feel  con-
vinced, an[-] would that I could convince others,
that  they  are  the equals  of  men.  Accord
them  the  same  privileges, and  we will have
convincing proof.
	Man is born of woman, and receives his in-
tellect from her, and in most cases the mother
trains the boy, and in  almost all instances the
man  will  and  does  acknowledge that  it  was
through his mother’s guiding hand he is what
he is.
	If women follow precisely in the same paths
that men pursue, they will  achieve the  same
success;  but if they are to be subjected to the
little torments which beset the lives of most
women, then the result will be  different.  A
man attends  strictly  to  whatever his mind
choo[-]es,and if a woman should try to, it would
prove an utter impossibility, for if she is mar-
ried, her time is  engrossed with other things,
unless she is financially situated, so that she is
not inconvenienced on that score.  Yet how
many women  can I  name  who  have  reared
families and cultivated the intellect, until they
shine forth as brilliant stars; and we are proud
to know that under the most distressing cir-
cumstances  they  have  proved that they are
man’s equal.  It seems to me that only bigoted 
people will believe in woman’s inferiority.  If
we still continue to advance the next fifty
years as we have in the past, we shall detract
more of their lustre and prove that it is not
quantity but quality which is required.
