[COLUMN 1]
			WORK AND WAIT.
	The question frequently asked us during the
last few days has been, “What are you going
to do now the Governor has refused to sign the
'Woman's Bill.'" It reminds us of a song re-
cently sent by a good sister  for  publication,
which begins and ends with,
		“What are you going to do, sister,
		 Say, what are you going to do?"
We are going to do just as we did before, only
better if we can, for we have had another new
experience  to  add  to  the  long list of the ex-
periences  of years.  We are going to labor in
the interests of humanity,  in  the  education
and elevation of women  and children;  we are
going to help promo e the interests  of Zion
with all  the  energy and ability we possess, in
all humility, trusting in God for the result of
our labors.  These are some of the things the
sisters unitedly feel  to  do, praying earnestly
that Zion may “become a great city, the won-
der of all people."
		To be resigned when ills betide,
		Patient when favors are denied,
		And pleased with farors given;
		Dear Chloe, this is wisdom’s part,
		This is that incense of the heart,
		Whose fragrance smells to heaven."
	These are eloquent words from  an old fash-
ioned poem, deeply engraven  upon  our  heart
in  years gone by when we practised it as a
lesson, seeking  to  make  it a pattern, a motto
in the midst of trials.
	Women have been designated  the reserve
forces of humanity, and when the right time
comes they will advance to the rescue. There
are many  lessons yet to be learned by women,
and they have need of prayerful thought and
careful study that  they  may act  wisely their
noble part in the great drama of life, and that
all may be done in perfect harmony with the
spirit and genius of the holy priesthood.
	But one says, “Have not women work enough
to do pertaining to their  household to  occupy
all their time to the exclusion of everything
else.” Will you tell us who finds time to visit
the homes of the poor, who feeds the hungry,
clothes the destitute, administers to the needy,
comforts  the  bowed  down,  encourages the
doubting, reproves in humility and love the
erring? Does the world need such tireless
workers, whose pleasant duty it is  to  labor for
the good of others, forgetful of self?  Do such
women deserve any consideration at the hands
of men, their brothers?  They have their spe-
cial needs and burdens, they often walk in
rough places, they stand sometimes  on the
brink of the river of death, that they may
bear the souls of men and women; often they
walk alone, through fierce  storms which beat
[COLUMN 2]
heavily upon them and seem to threaten them
with the destruction of all their cherished, life-
long hopes.  From what source do they gather
courage to  struggle on?  From Him who sees
not as man sees.  If women have talents, abil-
ity and energy to labor for the public good,
they can assuredly work more effectually when
there  are  no  invidious  distinctions  against
them; and the right of entire freedom and an
open path will lend new vigor  to their  every
impulse.  Women  who  have  had  great ex-
periences, whose maternal labors are over, who
are willing to sacrifice ease and comfort that
they may serve  others by doing a public good,
by working in some common cause for the gen-
eral welfare of all, such women are blessings to
the world at large; and for all such there is
work to do in the great busy, bustling world.
Yes, there is need of women workers in public
as well as private life.  The peculiar  charac-
teristics  possessed  by  woman  of quickness of 
observation, facility for adaptation and intui-
tion amounting almost to revelation, her in-
nate purity of character, and the spiritual en-
dowments which seem rooted in her very na-
ture, will all tell strongly on the side  of right
and justice.
	There have been too few laborers in the past;
now, if some of the reserve  forces  can  be
brought  into  action, the world  may advance
still more rapidly.  Woman has, by her indif-
ference and inactivity, clogged the wheels of
progress; in the awakening from her dormant
condition, the  workers  will be doubled, and a
new inspiration will be given by the admission
of a new element, and the burdens  of  life will
grow lighter  when  all  work  together on  a
broader p[-]atform for human progress.  Then
let woman work and wait, with a brave heart
and willing  hands, doing the duty that lies
nearest, however humble it may be, and “let
her own works praise her."
E. B. Wells


