MAN QUESTION.

	I presume that ere this you are over run
with woman's writings on the above ques-
tion. If not, I should like to see a few of
my thoughts and ideas on the subject in 
print for the perusal of those who are inter-
rested in the same. I am living in the 
country and do not know who all our op-
posers are; but I have been led to exclaim:
"Surely they are not all Mormons, who
thus seek to bring into ridicule the ladies
names who petitioned the Legislature for 
some  enactment removing woman's
political disabilities. Ladies who command
so much respect, and whose names are so

[Column 2]

illustratious among this People." These
ladies have been called upon to stand in the 
pulpit, before learned, gifted and experienced
men, of this community; and they have,
with womanly grace, queenly dignity, and 
earnest zeal, which  woman always feels for 
the welfare of her fellow beings, sought to
enlighten, to elevate, in short, to persuade
this people to live lives of purity, and to
prepare themselves to dwell in the Celestial
Kingdom of God. Their words have pen-
etrated the hearts of their hearers, making 
impressions that cannot be effaced.
	Can they fear that,if woman were granted
equal political rights with man, she would
lose her reason and judgment,and that all the 
people would become insane and try to rush
women into office for which they are unfit-
ted, both by circumstances and nature?
	What woman with common sense, to say
nothing of the tender ties of motherhood,
could leave her family of small children to
run in the street,or (dreadful picture) leave
them for their loving father's to wash,
dress, nurse and care for; or expect Papa to
smoothe their own bed, or soothe  her
business head-aching brow? Tender atten-
tions which, of course, she never needs in
the daily drudgery of domestic life.
	They say "if woman is to improve society
she must do so at  her own fire-side, by
instructing the children." This she has
been trying to do ever since the foundation
of the world; and yet her sons will go, from
her side, out into the world and partake
more or less of the evils of public life.
They will drink, gamble, swear,electioneer,
and sometimes shed innocent blood over
the man they wish to put into office.
	But woman must look quietly on nor can
she wish to interfere without being consid-
ered out of hor sphere. If a man has one
jot of gentlemanly dignity in his composi-
tion, the presence of ladies will do more
towards restraining these evils than even
law itself. All women have not the con-
stant  care of children; and many could, I
believe, fill some public offices with honor
to themselves and benefit to the community
wherein they reside.
	Most men hate a  strong-minded, or wo-
man's rights woman. If the world does not 
need strong-minded women,I don't believe
it does strong-minded men. If we were
the senseless dolls some men seem to think
us, how could we bring into existence and
rear our intelligent sons?
	Man need not fear that woman will ever
try to usurp his place in public life.
	The man  who is affectionate, and kind
will ever command the respectful love and
admiration of the weaker and more depen-
dent sex; and the woman who has such  a
husband will look to him, not with the
cringing fear of a love for a tyrannical
master, but with the proud confiding love
of her nature.
	Woman will never be satisfied until she
is acknowledged as the equal and counselor
of man.
