EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The suffrage leaflets issued by the S. L. Co.
W. S. Association may be obtained free by ad-
dressing this office, if sufficient stamps are sent
for postage. The leaflet contains the article from
D. P. Fett of Provo, "A Man's Advice About
Woman Suffrage," and the able reply by Sarah M.
Kimball.
	On account of unavoidable circumstances one
incident being the long illness of one of the girl
typo's there will not be a paper for January 15,
except one issued Febuary 1, which is dated on
its title page Jan. 15, and Feb. 1. Compensation
will be made each subscriber however in another
way, so they need have no fear of loss.
	The "Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book" pub
lished by the Ter. Association is for sale at this
office, 10. cts. per copy and we would be very glad
to dispose of them to the local associations or to
individuals. They ought to be used in the suf-
frage meetings having been prepared and printed
for that purpose, as many were at a loss for songs
suitable for these occasions. Nearly all the songs
are by home writers and the tunes are those in
common use, so that they can be available to all,
please send orders and they will be promptly
filled if accompanied with money, as the books
have been on hand more than a year and very
few have been sold, not half enough to pay for
the printing.
	The book of the proceedings at the National
Council in Washington last winter entitled
"National Council of Women 1891," is for sale at
this office, and we should be very glad to have
it circulated among the women interested in
organized work, whether benevolent, social, or
political or in any way progressive. The book
contains speeches and papers from some of the
most eminent women of the country, on many
topics of advanced thought. It is a work that can
be read, reread, studied and discussed and cannot
fail but make an impression for good, the price is
one dollar only and the book contains 372 pages
and is well bound and has photogravures of
the two boards of officers, five of each, the one
elected in 1888 the other in 1891—when sending
for book please enclose twenty cts., postage.
You will get much more than the worth of your
money.
	Special meetings are being held in the several
wards in this City for the purpose of awakening


an interest in and agitating the questions of Citi-
zenship and Suffrage. Women interested in this
movement for political and educational advance-
ment in the respective wards have presided at
such meetings and arranged programmes for the
occasion. The first meeting was held in the
Eleventh Ward on Friday Jan. 15. Mary A.
Freeze Chairman, Lizzie L. Felt, Sec., and the
other members of the Committee were Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp, Sarah White and Jeannette Morris.
After singing from the Suffrage Song Book, prayer
was offered and Dr. Elvira S. Barney read Zerelda
G. Wallace's Suffrage leaflet, speeches by E. B.
Wells and Lillie T. Freeze. The next meeting was
on Tuesday Jan. 19, in the 17th Ward at the resi-
dence of W. J. Beattie, Phebe Y. Beattie Chair-
man and Ella Dallas Secretary. Dr. Barney read
Henry Ward Beecher's suffrage leaflet and
Apostle John Henry Smith made an eloquent ad-
dress on political questions generally touching
upon the local situation and the woman ques-
tion. Pres. Sarah M. Kimball followed with logi-
cal reasonings and E. B. Wells spoke briefly. In
the third Ward Thursday Jan. 21, a meeting was
held at which Della W. Eardley presided and
Miss Irvine was chosen Secretary. Hon.
C. W. Penrose was expected but could not go
and sent a paper instead which was read by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp, speeches were made by Emily
S. Richards, and Dr. Elvira S. Barney. In the
tenth Ward Friday afternoon a meeting was held
where the speakers were Dr. Elvira S. Barney,
Elizabeth Mc'Farlane, Elizabeth Price, M.
Isabella Horne, Phebe C. Young, Mary A.
Freeze, Margaret M. Caine, and Hon. C. W.
Penrose.


