S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	The regular monthly meeeting of the Salt
Lake W. S. A. was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Rooms, Jan. 19th 1892 Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair. Opened by
singing from the Suffrage Song Book "O come
come away" Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
Minutes of the last meeting read and approved.
Roll called. after which several new members
were voted in and the programme was carried-
out as follows. Speech by C. C. R. Wells
subject, What do we gain by meeting together
as an association. Reading by Dr. E. S.
Barney "The Woman's Manual of Parlia-
mentary Law" also sketches from "The
Woman's Club Book." Elizabeth Price gave
some items on the Constitution and mentioned
that the association contemplated having a
sociable some time in the "near future" the
time and place to be anounced later on. Vice
Pres. Caroline E. Dye made a brief speech.
Vice Pres. Phebe C. Young said some ladies
paid their membership fee, had their names
enrolled and seemed to think their duty done,
which was well so far as it went, but of
course they could not expect to be educated on
the suffrage question without attending the
association aud taking a part in it. Pres.
Howard expressed her pleasure at the way in
which the exercises had been rendered, and
the interest which was manifested by the ladies
in the cause in which we are laboring, and
begged earnestly of the ladies to pray for the
members of the U. S. Congress, and our Utah
Legislature that they might have wisdom to
guide them in their labors.
	Adella Eardley advocated strict order in
conducting meetings, economy of time, short
speeches, variety of speakers and giving all
the members an opportunity of exerciseing
their ability in the management of the associa-
tion. Elizabeth McFarlane said she liked
extremists!. The Lord had said once of Israel,
He would that they were either hot or cold,
liked a person with a hobby, and loved to have
them ride it. Several meetings were
announced for the present and coming week,
after which the meeting was adjourned until
the third Tuesday in Feb. same hour and
place.
