THE RELIEF SOCIETY JUBILEE.

	On the 17th of March of this year there will be
a grand Jubilee of the Relief Society held in all
countries where there has been a branch of this

[Column 2]

organization raised up. The programme has not
yet been prepared for the celebration here in the
centre Stake of Zion but will be in good time.
Meantime a Letter of Greeting has been prepared
by the General Presidency of the Relief Society,
and also a few special instructions that there may
be union and a similarity in the services rendered
throughout the world. This seems to be in keep-
ing with the spirit of such a momentous occasion.
	The length and breadth and vast extent of the
work, spiritual and temporal that has been done
during the half century that is past since the first
complete organization, of woman in the West of
which we have any knowledge,which was effected
in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, cannot be
estimated by any method within the reach of our
finite comprehension. To be sure records have
been kept in branches and in Stakes and also a
general record of such items as were considered
sufficiently important.
	But the best things are seldom set down in the
books anywhere, nor indeed can they be, and yet
we have the assurance of our Savior that our
Father in heaven takes note of all these little
things that seem so small even to us who live
upon the earth.
	Thousands have been comforted, encouraged,
fed with the bread of life and ministered unto by
the sisters of the Relief Society, that would prob-
ably not have been thus blessed had it not been
for this perfected organization, that has taught its
members to search out not only the needy and
distressed bodily, but the sorrowing, the erring,
the doubting, and the tempted ones who need the
uplifting hand of kindness and of tender solici-
tude.
	See that ye love one another were the words of
the Great Master in his teachings to the people,
and those who profess to be his disciples, his fol-
lowers should put his precepts into practise in
their lives. Those we love we desire to honor, to
show favor to, kindness, courtesy and attention.
When men and women do more of this, when
they study to imitate the example of Him, who
was without sin, blameless, then they will com-
prehend in a higher and better sense the charity
that Paul spoke of, the charity "that thinketh no
ill," the charity "that never faileth."
	These are some of the simple first lessons to be
learned by the sisters who have united themselves
together to go on to perfection.
	Just how the Jubilee will be kept in all lands, is
not yet known. In places afar off the character of
the entertainments will have to be determined by
those who know better than the officers here can
possibly know, what will be most suitable to their
feelings and most appropriate to their circum-
stances.
	One fact is pretty well established and that is
that the Relief Society has become a power and
wields a wonderful influence wherever its
branches are spread abroad. It is not only
National but International and has become con-
nected to both these great Federations that have
held their Councils at the Capitol of the United
States. In every town and hamlet where a branch
of the Church is raised up, a good proportion of
its members are women, and very soon they are
organized into a Relief Society and become part
and portion of the parent society and assimilate
with it. The spirit of this Society extends to the
most remote branch even upon the far off islauds
of the sea, and there we find the sisters though
unknowing of the methods pursued here in Zion,
doing similar works of charity, benevolence and
kindness. The Jubilee to be celebrated this year
will crystalize the works and efforts of the women
of Zion into something of greater magnitude and
more extensive proportions than the Society has
hitherto assumed.
	The teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith to
the Society in its infancy, should be engraven
upon the minds of the sisters for their encourage-

[Column 3]

ment in that higher development of character
that, they are desirous of reaching.
	It is perhaps not generally known that Pres.
Joseph Smith at that early time donated to the
Society a lot on which to build homes for the
homeless, and also to furnish work to those who
were able to work and were out of employment,
he proposed deeding it to the Treasurer and
her successors in office,for the use of the Society.
Pres. Brigham Young when he reorganized the
Society here in these valleys authorized Sister
Eliza R. Snow and those associated with her to
carry out the original designs as set forth by the
Prophet Joseph and as recorded in the Books of
the secretary that were in Sister Eliza's posses-
sion. This has been the endeavor of those who
have presided all along from that time until the
present.
	And now at the close of the half century of
labor and effort for improvement on the part of
the noble women who have enrolled themselves
as active members of this organization how can
they prove their integrity to the cause,their grati-
tude to God, better than to celebrate in some way
that shall be most general and productive of the
greatest good to all concerned, this day of days,
this woman's Jubilee?


