WEBER COUNTY W. S. A. 

	The Woman Suffrage Association of Weber
Co., held their regular monthly meeting in the
Fifth Ward Institute, Ogden City, Nov. 9,
1891. After the usual opening exercises Pres.
E. Y. Stanford addressed the association on
the benefits to be derived from the enfranchise-
ment of women. Read an extract from an ad-
dress delivered by Clara B. Colby, showing
what good had been accomplished by suffrage
in Wyoming.
	Mary Ann Wallace of North Ogden then
delivered the following address on Woman
Suffrage:
	“One of the greatest clouds in the intel-
lectual heavens of today is the question the
right of woman to vote on any and all of the
political issues of our times. The men of our
day are fond of pointing to the grand results
of increasing intelligence among the nations of
the earth. Are these nations composed of men
only? Are the general labors which contribute
to the support of the human race performed by
men alone? Do men make our homes the pure
and hallowed retreats which refresh and re-
new the soul? What is there in the nature of
man which makes him the superior of the wo-
man? Has man any higher source to which
he can trace his origin and existence? He
has drawn the essence of his life from woman
ho owes to woman his form, his intellect, his
brain, bone, and sinew, without her he never
could have seen the light of day, his ideas
have grown into shape under her motherly
care, and man, proud man is today in all his
strength of mind, body and intellect only
what woman has made him. There cannot
be any separate existence for man. God in
the dawn of Creation when he brought man
upon the earth stated this great truth “it is
not well for the man to be alone,”—but when
woman was brought upon the scene and they
were pronounced one then the Architect
finished His work and proclaimed it “very
good.” Let us look at the face of history and
we will find in its lessons the confirmation, of
these principles. Eve stood with Adam; she
being the mother of all living. Abraham and
his lovely Sarah are not separated by the his-
torian. Moses the great lawgiver was the
brother of the generous and great Miriam who
watched his little Ark upon the River Nile,
and the loving heart of a woman, Pharaoh’s
daughter, saved to the world this child to bless
mankind after her cruel father had condemned
him to the watery grave.
	The mother of Samuel the great Prophet
and Kingmaker in Israel; made a covenant
with God which changed her condition and
gave to Israel one of the greatest men known


in history. Jesus the Son of God was the
friend, companion and champion of women
and history tells us that woman was last at his
cross and first at his opening grave; woman
carried from the lips of Jesus the news of his
resurrection.
	Why then should woman be held back from
the Ballot Box, she stands the peer of man
in every other place."
	Short, but interesting speeches were then
made by Jane S. Richards, and Joseph Stan-
ford, Esq.
	After singing by the choir the meeting ad-
journed for one month.
