IN MEMORIAM.

"Of all the thoughts of God that are
Born inward unto souls afar
	Along the Psalmist's music deep, 
Now tell me if that any is,
For gifts or grace surpassing this—
	'He giveth His beloved sleep.' "

	Death often steals away from those who love
them the dearest and the best, the purest spirits,
the fairest flowers of earth, those that gladden
and cheer the home, and whose faces are ever
light with peace and joy. "Death loves a shining
mark," has been written and so it has been in the
sudden departure of the two young women who
died so closely to each other, daughters of the
late President Brigham Young.
	It was a terrible shock to the community when
it was announced that Mrs. Talula Young Wood
only a few months married, was dead, and when
on the following morning it was known that the
spirit of her sister Mrs. Fanny Young Thatcher
had also taken its flight from earth, to those who
loved them most, the blow seemed heavier than
ever. Both were talented and accomplished, and
very generally beloved.
	Fanny the eldest was the daughter of Lucy
Decker and Brigham Young and was born in
pioneer times, January 25, 1849, she died Jan. 21,
1892, nearly 43 years of age; she leaves a married
daughter and two boys and one grandson. Lovely
and tender as a mother, a devoted and affectionate
wife, constant and true in friendship, and faithful
in all the relations of life, and in all the duties
and privileges of a Latter-day Saint; tenderly
loved, and ardently admired for her womanly at-
tributes and graces, of which she seemed not to
lack one; she possessed rare talent in music and
had composed some beautiful pieces when quite
young, but her eyes failing her, she was compelled
to forego this pleasure; her very soul was sym-
pathetically musical and she has gone now to

		"Join, the choir invisible,
	Of those immortal dead who live again.

	When the Central Board of the Young Ladies

[Column 2]

Association was organized June 18, 1880, Mrs.
Thatcher was chosen Treasurer and filled the
office up to the time of her demise. She has
filled the position of President of the Primary in
the 18th, Ward, also President of the Young
Ladies' Association of the Ward, which place she
occupied when called away. Her loss will be
deeply felt in the Ward for she was always ready
to give good gifts as well as sympathy and com-
fort. She had been in delicate health and in fact
suffered a great deal during the past few years,
though she never lost courage, and her faith in
the administration of the ordinances of the priest-
hood was firm to the last. Dear Fanny, sweet and
lovely in her earth life, has gone, we mourn for
the loss of her society here, but she rejoices with
her loved ones there, and we know that "All is
well." May our Heavenly Father comfort the
bereaved ones, the children especially who have
been called to part with an angelic mother, and
may they emulate her noble and wise example,
her patience, and fortitude of character, her self-
sacrifice and deuotion to the principles of the
Gospel.

	"So—by small slow footsteps,
		By the daily cross,
	By the hearts unspoken yearning,
		By its grief and loss;
	So He brings them home to rest
	With the victors crowned and blest!

	So!—by scattered ruins,
		By sweet links unbound,
	By fair blossoms all unheeded,
		Trampled on the ground;
	So He brings them home to Him,
		Where no cloud their joy can dim.

	Talula the younger was the daughter of Clara
Decker and Brigham Young and was born
on the 4th of March 1861, the day Abraham
Lincoln was inaugurated, and died Jan. 20, 1892
aged 30 years, ten months and sixteen days.
Talula was always a delicate child, while at
school she progressed rapidly and inclined to a
classical education but her health would not per-
mit of constant study. She loved art and gave
her attention to cultivation in painting, she had a
truly poetic temperament and appreciated the
highest and best in all that tended to advancement
in this direction and encouraged and aided her
young friends in these lofty pursuits. Her taste
was exquisite, her love of the beautiful, her idea
of harmony in coloring and other matters was
very fine. She was one of those dainty creatures
that we rarely find like a rare flower or a precious
gem. Her constancy to her friends under all cir-
cumstances was one of the strongest attributes
of character. She had a noble magnanimous soul
was true as steel in friendship, if she had once
trusted she could be relied upon though all the
world frowned, she had the confidence of those
with whom she was associated, and they knew
she would never betray it.
	But she has gone beyond recall, and we who
remain know that "Our Father doeth all things
well."

	"If we could push ajar the gates of life,
		And stand within and all God's working see,
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
		And for each mystery could find a key."

	"And if through patient toil, we reach the land
		Where, tired feet with sandals loosed may rest.
	Where we shall clearly know and understand,
		I think that we will say 'God knew the best."


[Column 1]

