IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				VIII.
	When Lady Anna rushed out of the house
that inauspicious morning that her lover had
called, she heeded not the teachings and advice
of her more self contained cousin, she thought
not of the consequence of her rash act—she
only knew, she only felt that her unbounded
love for him must have expression, and in the
open air she realized a feeling of relief; she
waited until the sound of the horse’s footsteps
were heard and then with all the impassioned
ardor of an unsophisticated child who trusted
implicitly in one beloved almost to adoration,
she stood until she felt the horse’s breath; the
young man was so absorbed, so gloomy and
disappointed that he had not observed her
though she was standing there that he might be


[column 1]
﻿sure to see her. In a moment he had dis-
mounted and before he was aware of it even,he
had caught her in his arms, and pressed her
warm lips to his in a long and passionate kiss.
He came to his senses momentarily and felt
that he was guilty of a flagrant error, but the
girl clung to him and begged him to remember
that she loved him only and always, ever and
for ever, and the hoarse wind echoed her words
upon the breeze,and they came ringing back in
broken numbers,—ever, forever.
	What Maitland Walton’s feelings were at
this unexpected declaration of love from Lady
Anna he could scarcely define to himself. He
knew that he loved her truly notwithstanding
her cousin Jane’s suspicions and her father’s
obstinacy, but now a new objection had arisen,
one that he had never suspected in the positive
enmity of the two families. Both were proud
and unrelenting; assuredly young Walton had
food for thought.
	Lady Anna would probably have fled with
him on that morning had he been as unprin-
cipled as many young men of his age and
class, but he checked his ardor and roused 
himself to a sense of his honor and resolved
that no sin should rest upon him in this matter
that he would win her honorably before all
the world, would conquer every obstacle in
the path to their future happiness, or leave
England forever. He could not remain under
the trees to have any conversation or explain
anything to her in fact all was vague in his
own mind, he made no formal promises or pro-
testations, but she knew instictively as every
woman knows, that his love was not the senti-
ment of an idle hour, a summer pastime.
When he had gone, for he flew as on the wings
of the wind from the temptation that haunted
him, his sweetheart gazed lovingly after him
then fell upon her knees and prayed to die
rather than live without him; little she knew
of prayer, yet as we all when we are utterly
desolate seek the Lord knowing little enough
of His divine character, yet earnestly asking
help from the only Source that is able to give.
Poor girl, she had not been taught faith nor
any of the great and grand principles that are
the rock and refuge of the human soul in times
of trial and of perplexity. Alas! how many
such in the wide world go down for lack of the
simple knowledge of God, that would give
them the true sublimity of courage in the hour
of need.
	But perchance in this case as in some others
her good angel stood by to deliver her in the
hour of peril. She rose hesitatingly and care-
fully retraced her way to the house, and up to
her own room; there her maid found her later
in the day, with wet feet, and damp garments;
but a heavy sleep had come over her after a
violent fit of weeping, and her cousin being
summoned had her undressed and put to bed.
Sir Edward was so upset by the interview
with young Walton that Miss Conway did not
venture to tell him of his daughter’s condi-
tion, but went on with the work of packing for
the anticipated journey; her thoughts busily
occupied with the events transpiring around
her, and what was likely to follow. After
Lady Anna’s adventure she seemed still more
melancholy, she took no interest in what was
going on, and left all home matters to her
cousin, who seemed old beyond her years, and
her decision was the ultimatim on all doubtful
questions. 
	Sir Edward went about more like one in a
dream, than a man in his sober senses after the
visit of Lady Walton. It had left a decided
impression upon him; he was more mellow in
his feelings, but seemingly fearful that any one
should observe it even his own niece or child.
Dr. Bland noticed it and spoke to Miss Con-
way upon the subject, he was being more and
more interested in this peculiarly attractive
and strong-minded young woman every day.
[column 2]
In fact he was beginning to comprehend his
own feelings, and analyze them somewhat in
the solitude of his laboratory, and wonder
what was to be the outcome of indications he
observed in his relations with the lady, who
had made his visits at the Castle of so much
more frequent occurrence. He had never be-
lieved it possible for him to be in love with
any object except his profession; it had been
first and foremost ever since he entered upon
his practice and in his career as a Dr. he
had seen and in fact been brought in close
contact with many beautiful and fascinating
women.
	The evening that the preparations for the
journey were completed and they had decided
to go up to London in the early morning Dr.
Bland made his final call to say Good Bye
and caution Sir Edward in regard to his
health; he had communed with his own heart
had made up his mind to let Miss Conway go
away without declaring himself, and yet he
reproached himself somewhat for being
cowardly, “she will never know and it will be
better so,” he said over and over when alone,
and then he would involuntarily exclaim ‘‘but
she is sacrificing herself to the caprice of this
old uncle who has no regard for her more than
to make his life less burdensome.”
	Opportunities sometimes do for us what we
lack courage to do for ourselves,and so it came
about with the genial kind hearted Doctor.
Miss Conway not suspecting the Dr.’s feel-
ings and not knowing his decision in regard
to herself asked him to step into the drawing
room that she might consult him on a private
matter. Sir Edward was in his own room and
Anna engaged in entertaining him. Alone
with Miss Conway the Dr. was not half as self-
possessed as the young woman, he fidgeted
while she explained that she was about to ask
his advice upon a very delicate matter, and
one that he must keep a profound secret. His
heart seemed twice its usual size, he felt faint
and weak, and begged her pardon without
knowing what he said for being so dull and
promised all and more than she wished. Her
cautious way of stating the difficulties that
had lately arisen, to hinder the intimacy be-
tween her cousin and Mr. Walton revealed
her true character more clearly than ever to
the good man, and when she had finished he
said, “what a fine diplomat you would make
Jane,” at the same moment taking her hand
in his, she drew herself up to her full height
which was not very great, quickly withdrew
her hand from the warm clasp, and turning
her eyes full of indignation upon him was
about to walk proudly away, but all at once
his manliness came to his relief from embar-
rassment, and he conquered by the force of
will-power, that in the best and greatest men
is intuitively recognized even in the most
heroic women; he succeeded in getting Miss
Conway to listen, and urged on by the per-
sonality of her charming presence, he became
as eloquent as any young lover. The quiet
young girl who had made up her mind be-
forehand to a life of single-blessedness, fancy-
ing herself unlovely, and almost without
friends, was completely taken by surprise; for
the first time in her life perhaps she was
totally at a loss to know what reply to make
to such vehement utterances, and stood
like one petrified. “I will not urge my suit
farther at the present moment, but leave you
to decide my destiny after serious reflection,
while absent in person; and without giving
her the least advice on the subject under
consideration previous to his informal
announcement of his own cause, he bade her
a most affectionate farewell and rushed pell mell
out of the house leaving the young lady quite
as astonished as he was himself at his moment-
ary audicity. Jane Conway began to think
the world was turning upside down, coming
[column 3]
from the quiet of her former home into the
midst of the rush and excitement that had
lately taken place in the old ruin of a castle,
that in outward appearance was almost un-
inhabitable; the girl could not sleep, so
strange did it seem that any one should love
her, she almost forgot her cousin’s troubles in
contemplation of her own feelings.
	Morning came at last and after a hasty
breakfast and many admonitions to the old
housekeeper and the steward the lumbering
old coach drove out of the immense gateway
into the open country road. Lady Anna
was silent and thoughtful, traces of tears were
on her fair cheek and Jane was not as attentive
to her uncle’s comfort as usual. Sir Edwrrd
growled at his valet,and was disagreeable with
the girls, but they took no notice until he
broke out all of a sudden in his usual style
more emphatic than elegant—‘ Jane one would
think you were breaking your heart at leaving
the old tumbled down place, by George your
not muah company for a gouty old fellow like
me who needs bracing up, I’m sick of
sentimentality and dont care ever to see the
old place again, I’ll live abroad after this, and
see that my girl steers clear of that young
jack-a napes, and Jane what has come over
you, has Dr. Bland proposed? any one can
see he’s heod over ears in love, you refused
him undoubtedly and he chuckled to himself
I knew he’d make himself ridiculous. If he
knew when he was well off he’d let women
alone, besides I want you to look after me and
your unruly cousin here.” No oue interrupting
or answering him made him savage. Jane’s
cheeks were blazing she would’nt trust herself
to reply and after venting his spleen a few
minutes longer he settled back in the carriage
and fell fast asleep.

