HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.

	The 17th of March,1842,was an eventful day
for Latter-day Saint women. Fifty years has
passed 6ince then those years of time were not
ours, they were lent us.
	Now as we have borrowed, should we not re-
turn with usury?
	At least our labors should speak for us in
praise,—that we obey, if we love Him, whose
blood was spilt—His life for us so kindly
given.
	Not only obedience, but humility, was the
great lesson He taught. "Except ye be con-
verted, and become as little children ye shall
not enter into the kingdom of heaven."

[Column 2]

	There was no stereotyped aristocracy of Him
left on record.
	Some have lived many times Fifty Years,
others only so many minutes. This may seem
strange to some, but not strange to the Master.
He gives, and he takes.
	We and all we have is His, if Him we
serve.
	Fifty years .ago a journey was marked out
by a master hand,i he line was straight, but
the road had many curves,to obscure our vision
from hills, and bluffs beyond and lofty peaks
and vales below. With childish eyes we drew
no bounds of distance, and willingly continued
to fill the programme, and complete the
journey.
	In Fifty Years if we have climbed above
the cliffs, we have obtained a magnified vision
by which to scan more closely the lives of wo-
man, and man) and moie safely tread.
	Time now so precious—that we might build
well we must not recount all the labors or
moments of the past, and our own time be
wasted in backward idle gaze, for if to time
lent us, principal with interest is to becom-
puted, we can only reckon and add our future
gain, to our present status.
	What of Fifty years? It is behind us, we
must look before us, some may yet reach it,
but many are past it and with speed are rush-
ing on with all our force and might and if at
twilight only we begin to do the labors of the
day, we are too soon lost in the darkness.
	There is but little time left to complete the
work that God gave us to do, unto the time of
His coining. He said "I'll cut my work short
in righteousness or else no flesh would be,
saved."
	He has given us eyes to see it and hearts
to feel it, for which I praise his high and holy
name.
	What of the next One Hundred Years? (I
will here give a portion of an article which I
wrote on an occasion that called it forth on the
8th of Aug. 1889, refering to one hundred years
hence.) We may believe that,—houses will
then be built as by magic. The works of
man, and the wasting of his muscular force,
will be relieved by electricity, steam power
and other devices. Foreign friends, in almost
a moment, will become our next door neigh-
bors. Our crops in the field will hurry their
growth and maturity by scientific methods un-
til the scriptures will be fulfilled that say,
"The plowman shall overtake the reaper."
The birds of the air will sing the melodies of
the harpist. Our horses will talk to us as with
well written language. The waves of the seas
will dance and be quieted, at the command of
the scientist. The polar seas will be warmed
and yield to the rays of the summer's sun.
The lessons that now seem so hard to the
child, to cope with, will be as simple as the
alphabet is to the sire, for as knowledge ex-
tends, the power of perception will be quick-
ened with the advance of time, and on the
nearing of God's predictions, so will His
power be made manifest, to not only move
upon the scientist to unravel and explain
what appears as mysteries and hidden powers
but He himself, the Great Master of science,
who holds the keys will turn them for man-
kind, in the day of His power and thus solve
the now great problems.
	Let us then leave our neighbor's weak points
to strengthen our own.
	Guyot says "that plants have three periods
of growth. The slowest and longest is that of
the root the next fastest is that of the stem
and last and quickest is that of the blossom
and fruit.
	Henry Ward Beecher in refering to this
says, "I have been wont to think that the
world grew by the root till the advent of
Christ that from the advent of Christ to our
day, it has been growing by the stem and that

[Column 3]

in the period in which we stand it is growing
by the blossom and fruit. Changes that
formerly required a hundred years for ac-
complishment, now require scarcely a score—
things rush to their accoomplishment. And I
make this plea in behalf of woman, not without
hope that I may see, in my day, an improve-
raent in her condition."
	Some movement, it is anticipated, will be
made to celebrate the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the organization of woman in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which will
occur on the 17th of March 1892.
		DR. ELVIRA S. BARNEY.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 11, 1892.


