WOMAN BEFORE THE LAW.

	Advocates of equal rights have many annoy-
ing things to contend with, many exasperating
arguments to meet, many disagreeable people
to answer, and these are all embodied in the
woman who "has all the rights she  wants."
There is some excuse for the opposition of
men who are unwilling to share their long-ex-
ercised power. Some allowance must be made
for those men who are conscientious in th be-
lief that the lines will be made harder instead
of easier for women when they possess political
equality, and who oppose it for these kindly,
although misguided, reasons. But patience
reaches its limit when it encounters a woman
who would deny all other women the suffrage
because "she has all the rights she wants."
There is only one person more narrow, selfish
and ungenerous, and that is the woman who
signs a "remonstrance" against granting the
ballot. A few women have done this, an in-
finitesimal number compared to those who have
signed petitions asking for the privilege of
voting, and their posterity will blush to read
their names. The woman of a few generations
hence will be utterly at a loss to understand
the spirit that would inspire one of her sex to
ask that freedom and independence might not
be conferred upon her.
	But let us consider for a moment the con-
dition of these women who "have all the rights
they want." We will glance at the events of
one week, that chanced to get into the daily
print, only a small part of what is happening
in this respect all the time. We find Miss
Irene W. Coit passing with honors the severe
examination for entrance to Yale College and
refused admission because she is a woman.
We see a number of Methodist Assemblies
of ministers voting against permitting women
to sit as delegates in the General Conference
simply because they are women. We read of
the Presbyterian Conference of Alabama vot-
ing that women shall not be permitted to speak
in public. In the city of Toledo a street must
be cared for by two commissioners who own
property on the street. Upon one it was found
that every property owner on the street was
a woman but one. Therefore, instead of ap-
pointing this man and one woman, they
selected a man from another street for the
other commissioner. In New Hampshire a
drunken Canadian farmer stole their child
from his wife and gave it to his parents in
Canada. The mother, protected by a detective
secured the child, which she found Covered
with dirt and rags. The father carried the
matter into court and, sustained by the law, a
constable took the child away from its mother
and returned it to the husband's parents in
Canada.
	In Iowa a man and wife lived together eight
years and had two children, but whether they
were married or not, nobody knew. Finally
the man deserted her and left her to provide
for the children by her own labor, which she did.
One night he stole the children. The law de-
cided that, if she was a wifethe husband


should have the children, if she was a mistress,
she might have them. A fine distinction and
encouraging to matrimony! The man swore
that they were married, and the judge gave
him the children. Down in Kentucky a poor
woman worked three months with her needle
to buy a cow in order that she might have the
milk to raise her three little children. Her
husband “traded the cow for a gun, filled up
with whisky, and started on the war-path.”
The woman was helpless because in that State
the wife’s earnings belong to the husband.
These are mere straws, drift upon the current.
Similar cases are occurring every week out of
the fifty-two year after year. And yet well-
protected, happily-situated women, having no
thought for their less fortunate sisters will lean
back in calm complacency and say, “I have
all the rights I want and 1 am not willing that
the burdens should be lifted from the shoulders
Of other women.”
Do they know what are the laws regarding
Women in their own State? There are only
three or four States in the Union where a
mother has the right to her child. In the
oth rs, either the child belongs absolutely to
the father where he has not forfeited his right,
or where both are proved to be equally capable
of taking care of it, the law gives it . to the
father.In New York the father "may-will his
children away from the mother and at .his
death they will be taken from her and dis:
posed of'as directed. He may will away an
unborn child and at its birth it will be taken
from the mother’s arms. In every State in
the Union the joint earnings of the two belong
absolutely to the husband. In many States
the wife’s property, real and personal, becomes
the possession of the husband at marriage. In
others, if the wife dies without children the
husband takes all the property if he dies the
wife gets but one-third, and in some .instances
only ,a life interest in this. In a number.of
States if the woman earns furniture, clothes
arid food by her own labor, the husband may
sell them and pocket the money. If the wife
breaks an arm or leg she cannot iue for
damages, but the husband sues the cause of the
jnjury for the loss ofher services, and the
money belongs to him. In more than half
of the States little children, from seven to
twelve years of age, may consent to their own
ruin, aUd the mothers are powerless because
the law sanctions it.
in forty-three States women are forced to
pay the full amount of their taxes and are per-
mitted no representation, not even the privi-
lege of voting for the assessor. They-are
compelled to obey laws they have no voice in
making and, when accused of crime, they are
refused trial by a jury of their peers. Space
is too brief to mention all the inequalities of
the law. It is true there have been many
mprovements since the day when the old
commonlaw of England everywhere pre-
vailed, which gave a man the same ownership
of his wife as he had of his horse or cow, but
these changes have represented the labor of
years. It will also be found that almost with-
out exception, the champions who secured the
repeal of the obnoxious laws were pronounced
Woman-suffragists, and they will testify that
the difficulty has been infinitely greater be-
cause’they were working for a disfranchised
class. Our law makers represent their con- stituents, the ones who placed them in power.
They have an eye single to the interests of
those who posse33 the influence of the ballot.
They are not legislating for Chinese or Indians
or idiots or women. Women have the right of
petition, but legislators scorn a petition .which
3 not signed by voters. Massachusetts wo-
men petitioned twelve years for the right to
own the clothes upon tfieir backs. While the
natural progress of public sentiment may, in
the next fifty years, be sufficient tp striko.out
most of these unjust laws, is it necessary to
await the slow process of half a century? Can
any one doubt that if women were enfranchised
it would be one-fourth that time until there
would be an absolute equality of the laws?
it will be observed that in considering this
question only the equity has been noticed.
The social side, the effect of woman’s ballot
upon education,-temperance, morality, and
kindred matters, has b?en entirely omitted,
becnji3e there may be a variety of .opinions
upon these subjects but it does not seem pos-
sible that there can be a difference of senti-
ment upon the point that, in matters of justice
all should have the same privilege and the
laws should bear upon all alike. We ask our
readers of both sexes to' lay aside prejudice
and consider this subject from the standpoint
ef reason, logic and broad humanity,' and ,
answer the question whether a government can
be truly republican, which makes these insid-
ous distinctions.
Locomotive Firemen’s Magazine.


