RIGHTS OF WIVES AND HUSBANDS.

	In these times when so much is being said
about woman and her rights I suppose we may
all have the privilege of expressing our opinion;
no matter how much we may differ with each
other. I do not profess to be up to the times on
this question, so perhaps my ideas will not
weigh much. I do not remember a time in my
life when I did not feel that women were the
equal of their brothers but have always been
willing to accord them the leadership (if they
were worthy men) and believe the Lord so de-
signed it when He created Adam first, and
there is another thing I often think about,
why are we required to promise to obey our
husbands in the marriage ceremony? if he is
not our head, or do we expect sometime in the
future to strike that little word out.
	Now do not smile and think I am an old
fogy as I assure you I am quite willing to be
the neck. But while I am willing he should be
the head it does not follow that I am his in-
ferior. Nevertheless let us each work in our
proper sphere for I certainly think there are
many things that women are not adapted for,
just as I think there are many vocations in
life where men would be entirely out of place.
	As to women being educated in all the arts
and sciences, and being informed on all the
topics of the day, or being Lawyers, Doctors,
Teachers, Editors, Clerks, etc., if they so de-
sire it I certainly think it their right and
privilege, and believe that intelligent thinking
mothers will be repaid with intelligent sons
and daughters, and am convinced that educa-
tion of women will bring about refinement in
men. Women are accused of being weak.

[column 2]
Wherein are they weak? I will tell you
where, in their loves and sympathies, for in-
stance how many faults a woman will overlook
in her lover, and grave ones too, even if she
knows they are serious and has made up her
mind not to tolerate them; a few promises, a
few soft words, and with a few exceptions she
will be won over and conclude that after all
he means to be good, and he will very likely
grow better as he grows older.
	That is where our weak point lies, and the
sooner we overcome that one the better it will
be for us, for while I think we should love, we
should let wisdom lead the way and guide us
and not marry thinking to reform our hus-
bands afterwards; let woman demand that her
husband be endowed with every virtue that
she is expected to possess. There are few
men, no matter how degraded they may be
but think their wives should be the embodi-
ment of purity, and very few would marry a
woman that would smoke or chew tobacco or
use intoxicants to excess; they would laugh at
the very idea; and yet although these were the
least of their vices they think it allright because
they call themselves men, to ask the hand of
the purest woman in the land in marriage.
Custom has caused us to think that degrad-
ing actions in women are trifles in men; this
is all wrong; it is just as bad for a man to sin,
as for a woman and we should let all men
know that women so understand it.
	Many of us have thought we must always
have a watchful eye over our daughters, but
our sons could go almost anywhere and take
care of themselves But I say while we guard
our daughters, as the apple of our eye, let us
also watch over our sons; and teach them that
God requires of them the same purity of mind,
and body that He does of their sisters, let
them understand that society expects it, that
women demand it, and then, and not till then
should they call themselves the lords of crea-
tion. It is unreasonable for a smart intelligent
woman to take an inferior feeble-minded,
whiskey-soaked, tobacco smoked man, for a
husband and look up to him as her head and
dictator, but when he fills the requirements I
have mentioned and is endowed with all the
attributes God designed he should have, there
will be few contentions about our proper place
for such a man will be quite willing to give us
every right, and what true woman will not do
any good thing to please such a husband.
						  R. M. F.


