BIRTHDAY OF A VETERAN.

	On Sunday Jan. 17, 1892 Patriarch Jos.
Horne attained the ripe age of four score
years. On Monday his family and friends
assembled by invitation to honor him and
celebrate the anniversary of his birth. The
children and grandchildren and friends that
were gathered on this happy occasion were
about as many as the number of his years.
The party was given at the residence of his
daughter and son in law Bro. and Sister
H. C. James. Pres. W. Woodruff with whom
Bro. Horne had long been associated was
present, also Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, and Pres.
Angus M. Cannon and Pres. Jos. E. Taylor,
Bishop O. F. Whitney and Bishop Geo. H.
Taylor, Bro. David James also Sister Zina D


H, Young, S. M. Kimball, B. W. Smith
Emma Woodruff, Sarah Jane Cannon,
Elizabeth Howard, E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor,
Amanda M. Cannon, Lissa Taylor, Zine
Whitney, Lydia James and other friends-
	A programme had been arranged consisting
of a variety of pleasing exercises, and opening
with an address from one of the older sons.
There was some instrumental music and a song
by Cornelia Horne Clayton which was very
appropriate,rendered in a sweet voice and with
fine expression, "Dear heart I’m growing old,"
also a recitation by the baby of the family,
the youngest daughter, toasts and speeches by
members of the family all expressing love and
reverence were given, after which Pres.
Woodruff occupied a short time in interesting
reminiscences of days when Bro. Horne and
himself were young,and the great improvements
and inventions since that time; and related
some experiences. Pres Cannon and brethren
and sisters who followed him all spoke of their
friendship and esteem for Bro. Horne and
family and wished him continued blessings of
prosperity, health aad happiness.
	It was a most delightful evening, and a
sweet spirit and influence seemed shed abroad
and filled every heart. Bro. Horne responded
to the remarks made in a very happy manner,
alluded to earlier experiences and his gratitude
in receiving the Gospel in his early manhood.
Sister M. I. Horne his wife, (their marriage
dates back 55 years and more,) directed her
remarks principally to the young members of
the family, who know little of the trials and
privations their parents have endured now
when surrounded with so many comforts and
luxuries. Sister Horne related a few incidents
in her past life, that were very telling, and
calculated to make a lasting impression upon
the young people. Bro. and Sister Horne are
a fine looking aged couple and their family
though large is a very exemplary one. The
eldest son, who also has quite a large family,
resides in Arizona and was not present at the
birthday gathering; one daughter Mrs. Nora
Horne Spencer came from Idaho to participate
in the family festivities.
	A most delicious repast including ice cream
and other delicacies as well, was served by the
daughters and grand daughters of the aged
and venerable patriarch. Such gatherings
and family reunions are pleasant and pro-
ductive of unity and kindly feeling, promote
affection and engender those tender sentiments
that bind together those whose lives as they
grow older, sometimes drift wider apart. A
long and useful life is deserving of honor and
the example of such men as Bro. Jos. Horne is
worthy of imitation


