BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	The columns of the EXPONENT have been used
to investigate the merit of these three words

[Column 2]

which are happily associated together, and I
would be permitted to add my mite to the many
good things already written of their characteristic
virtues which relate to human life and action.
	Faith is treated of, as being the gift of God to
man. True!—and as true, it was the gift of God,
to the spirit of men before man was.
	Faith, Hope and Charity, constitute the ele-
ment of all spiritual intelligences in glorified
worlds. They are to the creations of God in the
spirit world of life, as earth, air and water are to
the human life in this world. They were before
the world and will remain after the world in its
temporal condition shall have passed away. As
it is written—"faith, hope and charity, these three
abide." They are eternal principles.
	These being the virtues and inherent qualities
of the Father, they are transmitted to his children
in the spiritual creation; the likeness of which we
have in the father here, transmitting the virtues
and powers of his own nature to his children after
him.
	Evidence of this fact we have in little children
before their spirits become contaminated with
evil influences that engender doubt and distrust.
They have the most implicit faith in every word
that father and mother speaks to them. They
have no doubts nor fears of the truth of all that
mother can say to kindle their hopes of joy and
pleasure. It is the labor of life, of a mother's
love, to develop what is already implanted in the
spirit by its spiritual creation. Were the germs
not there; they would never be made to grow and'
develop in man, as we understand they are de-
veloped in and constitute the character of our
heavenly Father. The child of innocence, en-
dowed with these heavenly virtues, is a precious
charge with grave responsibilities, committed to
mother's care.
	The life of the child is to be guarded so long
as possible from every false thing whether of
word or act, that create distrust or doubt in the
certainty and truth of humanity, and thereby
weakens the faith that should never be checked in
its growing strength to a full complete develop-
ment in the soul.
	God has imparted the principle of faith as the
foundation for moral action. The mind must have
its moral judgment, its laws of right and wrong
for the development of the spiritual.
	Faith stimulated and brought into lively action
demands works as evidence of its living power,
and these works are always accompanied by hope
of realizing the intent of the act, and thus we find
that faith and hope are virtues always found in
harmony with each other,and are as closely allied
as cause and effect; inseparable in their relation.
These in their operations under the influence of
charity, prompted by the love of God, develop
the character of God in man, and make him like
his Maker. Hope is a rare virtue in the soul's
spiritual development. The soul in which reason
is developed by correct teaching hopes for the
right never for the wrong; for the good and not
the evil; for happiness, never for misery; always
hopes for the reward of virtue, never for vice; is
a power of strength to that endurance so often
necessary to obtain the victory over that which
threatens to destroy, if possible the faith we have
so fondly and justly cherished.
	It is the defender of that faith, the weapon of
our defence against every assailant that would
seek its destruction. The more faith and hope
are cherished, the stronger they become, an
evidence of their virtue and undying merit. With-
out the possession and exercise of them we can-
not please God, the source from whence they are
derived; with them we may be his children, and
inherit the love of God which is charity, the
greatest of the three.
	Charity in this connection—that charity that
never faileth, can only be considered as being the
love of God. "God is love." On this is suspended


all of divine goodness, mercy and favor—all of
truth, justice and judgment. It is the holiest of
all that is holy. It is the prompter of all His
works the very foundation of His tlirone and
constitutes the divinity of His being and' char-
acter.
	For this reason we may safely trust Him, for
love worketh no ill. Like one of old we may say
"though he slay me yet will I trust Him."
Though he may afflict, it is but to purify though
he may chasten, it is to refine, and should he ad-
minister judgment, it is but to redeem and all
these administrations are virtues for man to
pattern after. In this love there is no lurking hate
-to bias the infliction of penalties not justly de-
manded by the law that has been violated. All
men are creatures of his mercy, partakers of His
kindness. His love is not quenched by our in-
difference to it. All these are lessons for us to
emulate, they fill our souls with gratitude to Him
as our Father, and teach us that by loving our
fellow creatures we love what he loves, and as
He is worthy of our gratitude, so may we be-
come worthy and receive the gratitude of others,
by any and all of the administration that love can
devise and acts of kindness demonstrate.
	Faith and Hope reach out for that day when
charity, the love of God, shall prevail over all the
earth, when every thought, word or deed of man
towards his fellow man shall be influenced by its
power, to the bringing in of everlasting righteous-
ness, universal peace, and the fulness of God's
glory be the light of that Millennial day, that
shall bring rest and peace to every child suscep-
tible of these virtues, which constitute the ele-
ment of our immortality, the spiritual strength of
an endless life.


