STAKE.

	On October the 29th, Scipio received a very
pleasant surprise, Apostle F. D. and Sister
Jane S. Richards arriving on that evening on a
visit to our settlement, and putting up at the
residence of their neice, Sister Emily L.
Thompson.
	In the evening we called upon them and in-
vited Sister Richards to visit all the branches
of the Relief Society of this Stake but telling
her that there was a considerable distance be-
tween some of the settlements, but if it was
not asking too much of her, we would be very
pleased to have her accompany us on a visit
to them all. Sister Richards very willingly
accepted our invitation and Brother Richards
kindly going with us.
	On the morning of the 30th, Sister Emily
L. Thompson ( president of the Relief Society
of this place) notified the people that a meet-
ing of the Relief Society would be held at
1 o'clock p. m., at which Brother and Sister
Richards would address the Saints. At the
time appointed we met together and received
very valuable and encouraging instructions.
At the close of the meeting at 4 p. m., car-
riages were ready to convey us to Holden. The
party consisting of Brother and Sister
Richards, Emily L. Thompson, Bishop Thomas
Yates and ourselves. We arrived in Holden
in time to partake of hasty refreshments at
Bishop Stevenson's and repair at once to their
beautiful meeting house where we found a
good attendance of brethren and sisters al-
ready assembled. We listened to most ex-
cellent instructions from Brother and Sister
Richards also short speeches from other
brethren and sisters.We all felt greatly
blessed and encouraged.
	Saturday morning, Oct. 31st we proceeded
to Fillmore, ten miles further south. Had a
pleasant drive as the air was fresh and bracing
and the day fine. Many of the brethren were
in from most of the wards of the Stake to at
tend Priesthood meeting, which convened at
10 o'clock a. m. There were two meetings of
the Priesthood which Apostle Richards at-
tended. There was no meeting of the Relief
Society on that day on account of the sisters
not being notified in time. On Sunday, Nov.
lst, attended Sabbath meeting in Fillmore in
the afternoon and in the evening a meeting of
the Relief Society. There was a good attend-
ance of brethren and sisters who paid marked
attention to the encouraging words of counsel
from Sister Richard also the kind, fatherly
discourse of Apostle Richards, who spoke in
high terms of the Relief Society and other or-
ganizations of women.
	On Monday Nov. 2, had an appointment for
meeting at Kanosh, fifteen miles south of Fill-
more, at 10 o'clock a. m., and another at
Meadow, eight miles south of Fillmore at
2 o'clock p. m. We left Fillmore shortly after
8 o'clock a, m.. Stake President Ira M.
Hinckley and Counselors Daniel Thompson and
David R. Stevens accompanying us, and


furnishing conveyances to take us on. We
arrived at Kanosh at the time appointed hut
found funeral services being conducted over
the remains of a little boy Willie George who
had been burned to death. Brother Richards
made very comforting and consoling remarks
at the services.
	On account of the funeral we could not hold
Relief Society meeting. Part of the company
took dinner at Bishop Watkins and the balance
at Sister Adelia Kimball's, president of Relief
Society of Kanosh.
	We then started for Meadow, arrived at
2 o'clock p. m. There was a good attendance
of the people of that place also several wagon
loads of brethren and sisters from Kanosh and
one load from Fillmore. The house was
crowded and we held a three hours meeting,
and the spirit of God was poured out abund-
antly upon speakers and hearers. The speakers
were principally Brother and Sister Richards
and the Stake Presidency.
	At 5 o'clock p. m. left Meadow for Fill-
more. The Young Ladies,of this place had
called a special meeting for that evening. As
soon as we arrived some of them waited on
Sister Richards and other sisters of the party,
and invited them to come and talk to them.
A room in the State House was well filled
with ladies, principally yonng ladies. Sister
Richards and other sisters talked very plaiuly
to the girls and we think they will not soon
forget it. All paid marked attention and we
had an excellent meeting.
	Tuesday morning the parties above men-
tioned including the Stake Presidency, started
for Deseret, thirty miles northwest. We halted
about half way at a spring and partook of a
nice lunch. The weather was very pleasant
but the roads rather rough.
	The next mofning at 10 a. m., the three
wards Deseret, Hinckley, and Oasis met in the
school house at Deseret where we listened to
intensely interesting iustructions from Brother
and Sister Richards and others. Met again at
2 p.m., held a three hours meeting and had a
very full house. All seemed well repaid for
coming and thankful to all who had visitedthem.  
	Left next morning for Oak City. Held meet-
ing at 3 p. m. Some of the brethren and
sisters wished, another meeting there, but
Sister Richards was much fatigned from travel-
ing so far over rough, dusty roads so they had
to dispense with it.
	Friday we left Oak City for Leamington.
Held meeting at 3 p. m, and again received
excellent instructions from all.
	We were received everywhere very kindly
the brethren and sisters doing everything in
their power for our comfort. We all felt
thankful for this and most grateful to Brother
and Sister Richards for their counsel and en-
couragement. Their visit to this Stake will
long be remembered by the saints, and will
certainly result in a great amount of good.
We pray that their long and useful lives may
be lengthened, until they have accomplished
all the good their hearts desire.
	At 3 o'clock a. m. Nov. 7, Brother and
Sister Richards left Leamington by train for
their home in the north and later in the morn-
ing the rest of our company separated for
their homes, which we all reached in safety,
well pleased with our trip and thanking God
that his care had been over us, and for the
kindness of our brethren and sisters.
			ELIZABTH F. YATES,
