(To be Continued)
Elizabeth Snow Ivins (Address delivered at Mrs. Ivins' funeral, March 25, 1936) By Amy Brown Lyman
I feel greatly honored in being asked to say a few words on this occasion: First, because I regard Elizabeth Snow Ivins as one of the finest and highest types of women our Church and State has produced; And secondly, because she was one of my dearest friends. She has come to me in my hours of sorrow and discouragement, and because of her fine intelligence and understanding heart has comforted me as few could do. Her love and friendship are among the sweetest gifts of my life. Someone has said: "It takes a great soul to be a true friend,?a large, steadfast, and loving spirit. There was no wavering in the friendship of this noble woman. She was dependable, loyal, tender and true; and once a friend a friend always. No one could come between her and a friend. No one could influence her against a friend. She was never changeable. Fortunate were those who tasted of this rare friendship. Daughter of that great pioneer leader and missionary, Erastus Snow, whose duties kept him from home much of the time, Elizabeth Snow as a young woman was a tower of strength to her busy, hardworking pioneer mother. Their hospitable home in St. George, which was full of children and which was a center of culture and refinement, was a gathering place for the people of the community and was an open house to travelers and friends. Many of the leading men and women of the State were entertained and made welcome there. Wife of another outstanding pioneer leader and statesman, President Anthony W. Ivins, who was also claimed by the public, it was necessary for Sister Ivins to assume the major responsibility of their home?the care of the family and the training of the children. As the home of a Stake President, this was also an open house and social center. In Old Mexico all of the General Authorities and many of the Auxiliary workers of the Church have been entertained and made comfortable by Sister Ivins. And whether in St. George, Mexico, or Salt Lake City the Ivins' home has been a fine Christian home, an ideal L.D.S. Home. It has been a beautiful, well kept, well organized, wholesome home, filled with books and magazines; a home where all sorts of subjects were discussed from ancient history and religion to modern art and current social problems. And in all of this discussion Sister Ivins took an active part. A visit to the Ivins' home always meant interesting, profitable and stimulating conversation. Into this family, 9 children were born, 8 of whom survive, 5 girls and 3 boys, all of whom are here today. They are all college bred, super-fine characters and upstanding citizens of the highest order. What a gift to the world! During her long life it has been no trial for Sister Ivins to make personal sacrifices for her loved ones. It has been no task for her to minister to their daily needs, nurse them in times of illness and help to lighten their burdens. She suffered when they suffered, and rejoiced in their joys. She was an ideal wife and helpmate, devoted and loyal to her husband and his interests; and their great success in life was due in no small measure to her faith, ability, devotion, and industry. She worked shoulder to shoulder with him, and her practical wisdom and vision were a great asset in the partnership. She was frugal, thrifty, ingenious and resourceful. So I would say that although Mrs. Ivins in her earlier years was actively interested in promoting civic affairs and active in Church work, especially in the R.S. And Y.W.M.I.A. In both of which organizations she served as President, her greatest contribution to the world was as wife, homemaker and mother. Sister Ivins was a woman of great poise. She was beautiful, charming and lovable and had a most attractive personality, and with all she was so honest and straightforward and free from pretense. She was lovely in disposition and even in temperament. Her discriminating husband was always enamored of her. From the early age of 9 to the time of his passing she was his ideal. They were real lovers. It was my privilege to spend 6 weeks in travel with them, and I never saw a more loving, congenial and unselfish couple. It is a real joy today to know that they are now reunited, and for eternity. Even her children could not wish her back. As I have frequently visited her the last year and have asked what I could do for her, she has always said, "The thing I want most of all you cannot give to me." There is only one thing that could satisfy my yearning heart." I firmly believe that if Anthony W. Ivins were here today, she would be here. After his death she seemed to fade away. Sister Ivins was a great reader. She had a fine intellect, a characteristic of all the Snows I have ever known, and I went to school with a number of them, all of whom seemed to know everything about everything. She had rare executive ability and would have been successful in any field of activity. Sister Ivins was a greatly beloved and valued member of the Friendship Circle, a group of congenial women, which meets monthly for social and cultural purposes, and it will never seem the same without her. On the base of Utah's Seagull Monument, portrayed in a group of pioneer figures, is the pioneer woman. She stands beside the man (who with drooping head and relaxed muscles) is obviously disheartened. The children are listless and weary; but the woman with head up and muscles tense shows courage and determination and seems to be the inspiration of the group. This woman is typical of Elizabeth Snow Ivins and all of those other western pioneer women who faced life and who arm in arm with their men helped to blaze the trails in the great American desert and to found an empire in the west. Now as to the future. As to immortality. Some say, prove immortality. Our answer would be prove truth, prove love. Immortality is its own proof, as truth is its own vindication. There is a spirit in man and the inspiration of God giveth it understanding. It is our faith and our knowledge, based upon the great example of the Savior, that we shall be resurrected. And in this hope of immortality is the apex of the glory of the earth life.