TO MOTHER By Samuel G. Clawson
The earth, I often think would be a drear, Drab place despite its varying season's flowers In spring, the autumn leaves, and at the year's End, snow to blanket tiresome hours Of winter?were it not that God had seen The need of overtones?those gay perennials Which last the whole year through and lean Upon the air with fragrance spilling vials Of perfume into empty spots where blowing Spring seeds take no root, and summer's shower Drenches the dainty bud beyond all growing. Ah then, we're thankful for the lasting flower! And you, the gay perennial, bless the year, Blooming eternally, our Mother dear.
Relief Society Conference OFFICERS' MEETING April 2 and 3, 1936 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held its Annual Conference April 2 and 3, 1936, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge. There were nine sessions in all, including the Officers' Meeting; four departments?Social Welfare, Work and Business, Choristers and Organists, and Magazine Agents; the Reception for General, Mission and Stake Officers; the Presidents' Breakfast, and two General Sessions. The attendance at all sessions was most gratifying, including delegates from 114 Stakes and 10 Missions. The attendance at the Officers' Meeting was as follows: Mission Presidents 10; Mission Officers 2; Stake Presidents 87; Counselors 121; Secretary-Treasurers 61; Board Members 393; making a total attendance of 674. The music of the entire conference was especially fine. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the able direction of Charlotte O. Sackett, were at their best. They were assisted by Professor Frank W. Asper at the organ; Alta B. Cassity and Helen Croft Jensen at the piano; Professor William M. Hardiman with the violin. Soloists were: Eleanor Thomas, Margaret Hewlett, and Bessie Morley. The reception for Stake and Mission Officers held at the Hotel Utah on Thursday evening was arranged by Emma A. Empey, Chairman. It was most beautiful in every detail, and gave the opportunity for Relief Society sisters from far and wide to meet in delightful social contact. The General Presidency and Board were greatly touched by the beautiful flowers from the Hillcrest Ward and Bonneville Stake. A most unique and interesting addition to the conference was the exhibit of handwork done by the General Officers of Relief Society and the General Authorities' wives, both past and present. This delightful feature was a part of the Work and Business Department, with Jennie B. Knight, chairman, and showed the thrift, frugality and artistry of the sisters. The articles exhibited displayed handwork dating from pioneer times to the present, and were a credit to any group of women at any time or place. In addition to this there was a fine demonstration of made-over articles, conducted by Bessie E. Gourley, of Utah Stake; rug making by Elnore R. Morris, of Highland Stake; and bookbinding by Bertha B. Asper of Salt Lake Stake?just a few of the things possible in Work and Business Meetings.
STAKE OFFICERS' MEETING OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT Ida Peterson Beal, Chairman
The theme for this Department was: "The Union Meeting?What it can do for Choristers and Organists." From far and near Choristers and Organists had gathered to obtain instructions that would make them more efficient in their labors. From their enthusiasm, and the many questions asked, it was evident that they realize their responsibility in placing music on the same high plane as that of the wonderful work developed by the class leaders of our educational program. Definite and helpful instructions were given by Ida Peterson Beal, Elise B. Alder and Alta B. Cassity. Charlotte O. Sackett used the major portion of the time in giving valuable and constructive suggestions on the problems pertaining to group singing, breathing, tone quality, rhythm, etc. The songs selected for the year's activity are the following: "The Morning Breaks," Evan Stephens; "Zion Stands With Hills Surrounded;" "A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief;" "On the Bend of the River," (Words, Ruth May Fox; Music, Frances W. Champ); Trios: "In the Time of Roses"?Old German Melody; "The Old Refrain," Fritz Kreisler.
WHAT THE UNION MEETING CAN DO FOR THE ORGANIST Janet M. Thompson, Member of General Board
The Union Meeting is essentially a preparation meeting. It serves as a point of contact for definite instruction and help. It functions as a guiding and directing force. It permits of discussion of uniform as well as special problems. The Music Section affords opportunity to improve our work?to develop yearly, monthly and weekly objectives. This department can?Inspire, encourage and help organists to secure practical knowledge and skill. Keep them informed as to the needs, the strength and weakness of music in Stake. Seek suggestions from Ward organists in order to unify work. Challenge the interest of the class. Renew enthusiasm, build for more efficient service and constantly stimulate in order to avoid indifference. A wise musician will study the life story of the composer. A well-planned music department will develop the spiritual and educational background of all music used. If possible organists should have ten minutes at each Union Meeting for discussion of their problems. Probably one of the common problems is the preliminary music. It has much to do with the spirit of the meeting?it should prepare us for thought and reflection?stir devotion and transmit a spiritual message to the congregation. The organist brings the first message of the day with preliminary voluntary. Does it create the proper atmosphere for the meeting?does it add dignity to the occasion? How carefully have we planned the first message? They should consider what to play and how to play it. Choice of music has a great deal to do with the success of the meeting. It involves three requirements?it must suit the congregation, suit ourselves, and must be fitting to the occasion. The playing of music should be a positive element?the congregation is receptive and ready to be influenced. John Ruskin said, "Technique is only skill, art is mystery and spiritual power. The performer's task is to bring out the special quality of beauty that lies in music."
PRESIDENTS' BREAKFAST President Louise Y. Robison, Presiding
This very important gathering of the Relief Society was held in the Recreation Room of the Lion House, Friday morning, April 3, 1936. The tables were bright with Spring flowers in the gold and blue tints. The menu was delicious, and the entertainment of a most unusual character. Selections from the operetta "One Eternal Round," written by Gertrude O. Keeler and Nell S. Hatch, of Juarez Stake Relief Society, were directed by Mrs. R. A. Brower of Wells Stake. The occasion was delightful in every respect, and memorable from the resolution which was proposed by Jennie B. Knight and passed unanimously.
RECRUITING OUR RANKS Jennie B. Knight, Member of the General Board
Dear Presidents: The members of the General Board are deeply impressed with what you and your groups have accomplished, and like you, they are vitally interested in the future responsibilities of this very important organization. You select women, are pace-setters, and upon you depends the success of our unparalleled program for the betterment of the family which is still the most important agency of civilization. There is some indifference to our cause among the women of the Church, and time's relentless stream is bearing many of those we love away, and as always, there is need of recruiting our ranks in order that the work may go steadily on. We encourage you in the methods you have adopted in increasing your membership and wish now to call your special attention to a rich source from which to recruit new members?namely, our daughters. To this end it is proposed that we inaugurate a Daughters' Day in all the Relief Societies of the Church. The event has two purposes: first, to magnify the blessing of Motherhood; second, to have daughters, who are not members of the Society, give the program, as a means of interesting them in the activities of the Society so that later they will be anxious to join our ranks. It is desired that you do not change the programs for this event, but that those outlined in the Magazine be used. After the regular business of the day, the entire program, including special music or other features, should be given by the daughters as "guest artists." It is proposed that the day to be set apart as Daughters' Day should be the anniversary of the birth of the General Relief Society President who has given the most daughters to the world. Upon investigation we find this falls upon the anniversary of the birth of Clarissa Smith Williams, the sixth General President, who was the mother of eight daughters. The day is April 21st. It would be a gracious thing if some of the members, the visiting teachers, or neighbors, would occasionally volunteer to care for the little children so that daughters may attend and participate in the activities of the organization. After favorable comment by the Stake Presidents, it was voted unanimously to adopt this plan.
FIRST GENERAL SESSION
WHAT RELIEF SOCIETY MEANS TO THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Radie O. Hyde, Pres. Ensign Stake Relief Society
First, may I ask this question, "What does the Relief Society mean to its members?" It means service in its noblest sense; service to God's children, therefore service to God. And through that service rich opportunity for development of self. "I was an hungered and ye gave me meat; I was thirsty and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger and ye took me in, naked and ye clothed me; I was sick and ye visited me; I was in prison and ye came unto me." Thus spoke our Savior in ancient times, but in our time, that same cry of gratitude and thanksgiving has sprung from the throats of thousands of our people and too, the strangers within our gates, who have been fed and clothed and released from prisons of doubt and despair by a great band of Relief Society women engaged in Christ-like service In the early days of the Church when the people were so persecuted, when sickness was rampant with no adequate facilities for combating it, when immigrants were arriving almost daily who must be fed and housed until they could provide homes of their own, the women of the organization had little time for anything but welfare work; however here was a wonderful opportunity for service and because they gave it, and gave it willingly, they came to love it. No night was too long to sit by the bed side of a sick friend or neighbor and minister to his needs and no disease was so dangerous but these same women willingly performed those last loving services of washing and preparing for burial their dead. The educational field has not been neglected. In those first early days even when the women met and planned their welfare work, they discussed current topics of interest and did much to promote faith in each other through testimony bearing; however in reading of the growth and development of the Relief Society we find that many constructive and educational movements, each of particular interest to the women of their time, were undertaken, some of which were national and international in scope. Various other activities too numerous to mention, called for service of a high order. With the introduction of a definite educational program in 1914 new fields of opportunity were opened to our women, until today we might say, that in extent it reaches into the past with an interest in those who made possible the organization, covers the present with an interest in the living, and extends into the future with an interest in the unborn. And now we might ask, What does this constant giving in the interest of others mean to the women of our organization in terms of self? It means spiritual and intellectual development that cannot be measured. And why, we may ask this development? "Give and ye shall receive," that is the law of growth and development, of happiness, and love. Charles H. Spurgeon, the London preacher, graphically illustrates this perfect law of compensation in these words, "If we view the human body we shall find that the heart does not receive the blood to store it up, but while it pumps it into one valve it sends it forth to another. The blood is always circulating, never stagnant. So it is with all the secretions of the body. If the cells should begin to store their secretions that store would soon become the cause of disease and the organ would soon lose its power to function at all. The whole of the human system lives by giving. Let us learn then from this analogy of nature, the lesson, that to get we must give; that to accumulate we must scatter, that to make ourselves happy we must make others happy; and that to get good and become spiritually vigorous, we must do good and seek the spiritual good of others." Perhaps the first great virtue that this gratuitous service engenders in the hearts of our women is charity; not alone the charity of alms giving, but that greater charity written of so beautifully by Paul; the charity that embraces kindness, patience, humility, forgiveness?all the graces in a lesser degree perhaps, which characterized the greatest Servant of all, Jesus Christ. Affiliation with the Relief Society develops some of the finest social contacts one could ask for, without which many humble modest souls would have little or no social life. Especially is this true of the work department which also offers wonderful opportunities for the development of creative thinking and planning. Service in the Relief Society develops responsibility, and responsibility develops undreamed of powers. The educational department offers rich opportunity for intellectual development; opportunity not only for acquiring knowledge but of even more importance, opportunity for self expression, initiative, and leadership, thus helping our women to discover in themselves gifts and talents of which they were wholly unaware. Spiritual development is a natural outgrowth of service in the Relief Society. Woven into the very fabric of the whole organization like a golden thread woven in a beautiful carpet, giving it color and warmth and life, is this wondrous, intangible thing we call spirituality; the thing that sets it apart from all other women's organizations. It is this spiritual development of the women that has taught them the joy of sacrifice, given them courage to combat opposition, and the strength to meet adversity. Indeed we might say that spirituality is to the Relief Society what the late B. H. Roberts says Revelation is to the Church, "The source of her strength, the secret of her power, the means of her growth." Jesus Christ it was who dignified service, devoting his life to teaching and blessing doubting, suffering humanity, but through that service he developed a personality so effective that even today, centuries after his death, he is being increasingly accepted. It may not be within the power of our women to serve and develop through that service as did Jesus Christ, but it is within their power to so serve that when the time comes for them to meet their Maker, he may say to them, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren ye have done it unto me," "Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." What the Relief Society means to its members in terms of service, and through that service development of self, it may mean to each woman in the Church if she so chooses, and my humble prayer is that more and more, the women of the Church will come to a fuller understanding of, and a greater appreciation for, the worth-whileness of the Relief Society Organization.
OUR HERITAGE Lotta Paul Baxter, Member General Board
Over 55 years ago a little girl watched with mingled admiration and wonder, a woman hurry through her household tasks in order to have time to go out and do something for the sick and the needy. Just what that work consisted of was also mystifying. That it had a great appeal was self-evident, and seemed to bring satisfaction and comfort to the woman. The little girl resolved that when she grew to womanhood, she too would do that kind of work. I was that little girl, and the happy, resourceful Relief Society worker was my mother. We were not different from scores of other mothers and daughters. We represented a type?a type that is legion throughout the Church. But is this desire of daughters to follow in the footsteps of their mothers increasing or diminishing? Have our big interests in life been of great enough importance to inspire our daughters eagerly to follow us? This Relief Society work is an heritage given to us by such women as these: Emma Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Louise Y. Robison, and our own mothers and grandmothers. Are we willing to let this heritage slip from our hands that it may be given to another people? Are we holding high the torch of enthusiasm that illuminates this work? Do we help our daughters to leave their children on Relief Society day? Let us make Tuesday a mothers' and daughters' day the year round and bind closer this sacred tie of relationship. Youth and age should mingle together?youth to be inspired by the achievements and experiences of age, maturity and age to seek the youth in order to partake of youthful vision, hope and enthusiasm. Are clubs and other interests encroaching upon our field of activity? With no thought of depreciating the worth of these other organizations which women are interested in, and rightly so, we still maintain that we have a program of such varied interests that the needs and desires of all women can find expression herein. Our Work and Business day can be made one of the busiest, happiest and most productive days in the month. Our Singing Mothers chorus offers opportunities not readily found in the average organization. Our Theology and Testimony, Literature, Social Service, and Teachers' Topic lessons offer the members an avenue of inspiration to better and more profound reading and research than is found in other courses of study. I wish to pay my tribute of appreciation to the ward workers, who are constantly searching out the women who seem to have been forgotten and bringing them into the fold. Let us be just as diligent in seeing that our daughters are enthusiastic, happy Relief Society workers. A few thoughts for the coming summer: More enthusiasm for the possibilities of Relief Society; Magnify the value of youth and age learning and working together; Make Tuesday a mothers' and daughters' day during the entire year; Recognize Relief Society as an heritage in its fullest sense.
FORWARD Mary C. Kimball
Objectives shape the destiny of individuals, organizations and causes. The objectives of the Relief Society were set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith and its first president, Emma Smith. These objectives are as wide as humanity, as far-reaching as the needs of God's children. They embrace the intellectual and the spiritual. They foster love of God and love of fellow men. Who with such goals marked out could fail to reach the heights? Since the organization there has been a forward march in an effort to realize the objectives thus set forth. The organization more nearly approaches its standards today than ever before. As we look back we realize that the history of the organization is glorious, and that it has ever pressed forward. The obligation today is to build on the splendid foundation laid by those who have labored in the past, so that the super structure shall be as fine as the foundation merits. If we would go forward, we must not get into ruts. If we would meet the needs of the present and the future, we must not think because something was good yesterday that it necessarily is the best thing for today. We must learn to face things squarely, think them through clearly, and thus meet every problem as it arises in the best possible way. We must not think because the Government has done so much for its people that the service angle of Relief Society is a thing of the past. There are still children who need clothing; there are still mothers who need to be trained in sewing and household arts; there are still those who need bread, and perhaps more than ever before there are many who need spiritual uplift. While the great educational program in the past has served more people than have been reached by looking after their physical needs, the call for all officers and members today is to go out into their wards and bring in those who are not being benefited by this great organization. There are thousands of women in the Church who need an outlet for their talents and ability, for their handicraft and mental and spiritual gifts which this organization affords. While thousands of women have learned to think intelligently on their feet and to express themselves clearly and have learned to appreciate the Gospel more thoroughly, to drink in the beauties of literature, to know how complex are the social problems of life, there are many who have not yet been reached. They should be brought in and be made vitally interested and active. There are many who are attending our organizations who are timid and backward and who need to be brought forward and to find joy in participating in the class work. A big percentage should take part in the lesson work. Teaching should be more effective that the things taught may be put into life. More religion should be brought to people who are spiritually starved. Every Relief Society officer and member should resolve to: speak more kindly, pray oftener, carry love and optimism, keep closer contact with the divine. The Relief Society women, because of their great organization and the unity with which they press forward, have greater power than any other women in the world to preserve, cherish and promote civilization, to increase spirituality, to uplift the community and to press forward purposefully. So forward this great organization marches, learning each week more about life, about its ideals and its problems, doing the needed things, knowing that for "web begun God sends the thread," having ever a sense of eternity which makes for deep thinking and noble living.
RELIEF SOCIETY AWAKE TO CIVIC RESPONSIBILITIES Hazel H. Greenwood
Today when woman is entering successfully into various fields of labor in the professions and the business world, it is necessary for her to acquaint herself with the underlying principles of government and to actively engage in movements that will safeguard and build up the community and the home. The world has made greater progress in the last one hundred years than in any similar length of time in all history. But there is no material progress in that time greater than the progress woman herself has made. This has been due to the position she herself has earned. She is equipped to take a prominent place in public and civic affairs as well as in her home, by her education and training. Woman's greatest province is the home. There her interest centers. To do her part well, she must understand the forces that tend to strengthen the home as well as those seeking to undermine it. She must understand the influences surrounding her family both for good and for evil. It has been said, "The destiny and greatness of America lies around the hearthside." The mother must reach outside the home and study conditions in order to maintain freedom and security within. Voting is one of the privileges of citizenship. The Constitution of Utah granted to women the full right of suffrage. Under the 19th Amendment to the Federal Constitution ratified in 1920 this right was granted to all citizens of the United States regardless of sex. To vote should be regarded by all women as a duty. As long as people who know what is right fail to vote we shall have many things as they should not be. With the changes that have come in economic conditions and the status of women, we have more time for social service of which we are becoming conscious, thus enlarging the mother office, to world ministry. If our Relief Society women throughout the world could fully realize their responsibility, they could be an indomitable force in rehabilitation and raising the standards in all communities. Women of our Church have good conscientious leaders and through their direction the Relief Society will find opportunities to expand their work and to study not only benevolent and religious activity but the manifold duties of every-day life. No other church devotes so much time in training for leadership as ours. No other church emphasizes home making as does our Church. Let us see that we are prepared for this leadership. Our women must rise above prejudice and fault-finding. Find out the facts and base judgments on them. Study local needs and situations and create a sentiment for better conditions. Inform yourselves on the processes of Government. How best to serve our community through our home and our Church is the problem of today. To do this in the best way is to actively take part in the affairs of government by using our franchise, to take part in the social service in our communities through its organizations and educational facilities and to train ourselves to assume leadership.
ALCOHOL EDUCATION Judge Oscar W. McConkie