There is a Japanese proverb which says: "First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man." Lady Astor said: "When I have a good time, I want to know about it." It has been said that the prerequisites of temporal salvation depend upon health, energy and economy. It is not my purpose, this afternoon, to refer to any of those elements classified as spiritual. It is my purpose to confine my remarks to economic, physical and social problems related to the use of alcohol. When championing the American cause in Parliament, Edmund Burke said: "I know not how to frame an indictment against the whole people." If I were called upon to frame an indictment against alcohol it could scarcely be complete without these forty-four counts: It damages the nerves. It acts as a narcotic. It weakens the heart. It lowers resistance. It hinders immunity. It increases the mortality of Typhoid Fever. It lessens nerve sensibility. It lowers blood pressure. It is highly irritative. It hinders digestion. It puts a yoke upon the mental powers, and dulls them. It limits the exercise of faculties so that one cannot judge so wisely, and cannot will so forcefully, nor can he think so clearly. It impairs the physical strength, so that one cannot run so fast, nor jump so high, nor pitch a ball so well. It destroys personal liberty. It irritates the skin. It creates abdominal inflammation. It wastes energy. It creates irritability. It advances weariness. It lessens the sense of shame. It destroys the feeling of family and civic responsibility. It increases arterial pressure and the pulse rate. It affects the heart injuriously. It is detrimental to the whole human economy. It impairs the judgment. It destroys self-control. It detracts from the initiative. It causes more deaths than any other poison. It makes for Tuberculosis. It is responsible for from 75% to 90% of venereal infection. It is the sole cause of alcoholism. It is indirectly responsible for 20% of divorces, for 25% of insanity, for 37% of poverty, for 47% of the misery of childhood, for 50% of crime. It dulls all the senses. It causes inaccuracy of mind, nerve and muscle. It disturbs the body thermostat. It over-works the saliva glands; an alcoholic bath of the mouth increases the flow of saliva. It reverses stomach action. It interferes with the function of the liver, with the function of the bowels, with the function of the kidneys. It increases the flow of the juices in the stomach. It causes the walls of the blood vessels to relax and to enlarge, as is evidenced by the red nose of one given to the use of alcoholic liquor. It slows down the activity of the white corpuscles and impairs their activity. It steals oxygen from the red corpuscles. It interferes with the delivery and collection system of the blood. It is habit forming, so promises continued physical and mental decay. It has long been demonstrated among industrialists that intoxicating liquor brings about a scarcity of men at the top, and increases the great number of men who are qualified only for services at the bottom.