			SOCIETY.

	[Report of the Relief Society Conference
of the Hawaiian Islands held at Laii Oahu,
April 8th, 1893.]
	As usual on such occasions, the native
sisters assembled at "Lanahuli" arrayed
in white and each wearing a society badge,
bearing the inscription "Ka Heii Manawale,"
Through the energetic efforts of our good
Marshal of the day, "Pono," the procession
was soon formed into line, and at ten
o'clock promptly was marching to the
enlivening strains of music discoursed by
our Laii Martial Band. Upon arriving at
the meeting house, all were comfortably
seated in their proper places by three of our
young native sisters who acted as ushers,
and who deserve great credit for the success 
with which they carried out their part of
the programme, viz., dispensing water to the
thirsty, arousing those who were inclined
to sleep, keeping order among the little
folks, etc.
	The house was profusely and beautifully
decorated with ferns and flowers; at the
back of the stand hung large pictures of 
Brigham Young and of the First Presidency,
draped with festoons of red and white cloth
and ferns. At each side of the stand, over
the entrance ways were to be seen pictures
of the Salt Lake Temple, one representing
the Temple in its early course of erection,
the other showing the beautiful edifice since
its completion. The walls of the Taber-
nacle, on either side, were ornamented
with banners of various kinds inscribed
with some of the noble sentiments uttered
by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Our Presi-
dent, Sister Libbie Noall, called the Con-
ference to order and after the usual opening
exercises, reports were read by the Sec'y,
Sister Kekuewa Nakuaau, showing a mem-
bership of 692; number of meetings held
during the half year 429.
Balance in treasury at date of last report, $367.75
Money donated during this term...174.44
			DISBURSEMENTS.
Donation to the poor	. . . . . . .	53.50
"	"	"	Temple	. . . . .	93.45
"	"	"	Missionary fund . . 17.05
Tithing						10.70
Miscellaneous donations		63.60
Balance in treasury				304.49
	The remainder of the two sessions of our
Conference was devoted to the "Eleles," or
representatives of the different branches
from the several Islands, numbering about
thirty-one, who gave in their reports as to
the condition of their various societies,
which reports proved to be the most com-
plete and satisfactory that have been com-
plete and satisfactory that have been pre-
sented before the Conference for several 
years; every society upon the Islands, with
but two or three exceptions, were repre-
sented, and all reported as being in a fairly
prosperous condition, this speaks well for
the integrity, faithfulness and liberality of
the sisters, when we take into consider-
ation that the majority of the Saints are
very poor, having but limited means where-
with to meet the demands made upon them.
The reports of the "Eleles" were inter-
spersed with words of instruction from the
white sisters, also songs, solos, duets, etc.,
which added life and spirit to our meetings.
	The presiding authorities of the Relief
Societies in all the world were unanimously
sustained by the Conference, after which
the following local officers were sustained
for the ensuing six months:
	Prest. of the Relief Societies of the 
Hawaiian Isles, Libbie Noall; Counselors,

[column 2]
Jennie Harding, Nellie Grace, Maggie
Davis, May Duffin, Annie Thurber, Katie
Hottendoof and Lizzie Brown.
	Of the native sisters, Kekuewa Nakauau
and Kahuhu; aids, Kalua Palaoa and
Niaulani. Rec. Sec'y—Kekuewa Nakuaau
with Luka Kauhine as her assistant. Cor.
Sec'y. Nellie Grace; treasurer, Matthew
Noall. Sister Noall spoke at some length,
giving the sisters timely words of counsel
and instruction pertaining to their duties,
also read a letter from the first presidency
of the Relief Societies, touching upon the
duties of the different officers of the society,
this letter was explained in full to the un-
derstanding of all present. President Noall
followed, addressing the Saints in his
usual lively and spirited manner, encourag-
ing them in their labors, after which he
spoke upon the necessity of organizing a 
Primary Association and the benefit that
would result from such an organization;
this subject had been previously agitated
and discussed by the sisters and all were of
one heart and one mind in desiring to take
upon themselves this new labor in behalf
of the native children of the Laie branch.
	The following names were submitted to the
Conference and sustained as officers of the 
Association: Libbie Noall Prest., Maggie
Davis and Lizzie Brown, Ioane I., Sec'y,
Elena Ass't Sec, Musical Director, Nellie
Grace, Treas. Katie Hottendorf.
	A social reunion and dance at the school
house in the evening, proved a happy
sequel to the day's proceedings and was
thoroughly enjoyed by all.
	A special officer's meeting was called by
our President, for the benefit of the visiting
sisters, wherin they might counsel with the
missionary sisters upon subjects pertaining
to the welfare of their societies, which
would not be advisable to discuss in a pub-
lic meeting.
	They left their "aloha mii" with us, and
took ours with them to be distributed
among the Saints of their respective dis-
tricts; and thus they parted from us, feeling
amply repaid for coming to conference, and
filled with the good things they had heard,
so the good work is rolling on in this part
of the world and the missionaries take
pleasure and satisfaction in proclaiming glad
tidings of joy and salvation to this branch
of the house of Israel, and they feel proud
of the honor bestowed upon them in being
counted worthy to assist in pruning the
vineyard of the Lord for the last time.
				MRS. NELLIE GRACE,
	Cor. Sec. Relief Society of the Hawaiian
Islands. Laie, April 20th, 1893.


[column 1]
KING JAMES OF ENGLAND.
	JAMES the first of England and sixth of
Scotland was the only son of Mary Queen
of Scotts and Henry Lord Darnley, was
born in Edinburgh, June 19, 1566; at the
death of Queen Ellzabeth he succeeded to
the throne of England. Scotland had been
a separate kingdom since the time of Robert
Bruce but now became united with England
in a gratifying manner, having given in-
stead of receiving a king. A few weeks be-
fore the death of Queen Elizabeth, a con-
quest commenced four hundred years be-
fore, by Strongbow; was completed by
Mountjoy, and scarcely had James the first
mounted the English throne than the last
O’Donnell and O’Neil, who held the rank
of independent princes of Ireland, kissed
his hand at White Hall, thus uniting

[column 2]
England, Scotland and Ireland, it would be
supposed the united kingdoms would be
very powerful; both nations were intelli-
gent, courageous and in mental cultivation
the Scotch equaled any other country in
their religious fervor, they were Protestant
while Ireland still remained true to the old
religion. Ireland was treated as a province
won by the sword and Scotland did not
escape,in many ways being treated as a sub-
ject province, but we find the condition quite
the reverse it seemed to be no more importance
than the little kingdom of Scotland had
done. Macaulay think at this critical time
it really was fortunate that James was not
a great leader, for it was a time when
England should be absolute or parliament
control the executive administrations; being
weak minded and good natured. He
further says it was at this time those
strange theories which Tilmer afterwards
formed into a system and which became the
badge of the most violent class of Tories
and high churchmen first emerged into
notice. It was gravely maintained that
the Supreme Being regarded hereditary
monarchy as opposed to other forms of
government with peculiar favour, that the
rule of succession in order of primogeniture
was a divine institution anterior to the
Christians and even to the Mosaic dispen-
sation, that no hnman power, not even that
of the whole legislature, no length of
adverse possession, though it extended to
ten centuries, no power could deprive a
legitimate prince of his rights, that the
authority of such a prince was necessarily
despotic, that the laws by which in England
and in other countries the prerogative was
limited were to be regarded merely as con-
cessions, which the sovereign had freely
made, and might at his pleasure resume,
and that any treaty which a king might
conclude with his people was merely a
declaration of his present intentions and
not a contract of which the preformance
could be demanded.
	James was very secure under this act.
He boasted of his kingcraft and irritated
his parliament by telling them they held
their privileges only during his pleasure
and had no more right to question him
what he should lawfully do than to question
Deity in the same moment. He maintained
the same policy as regards religious belief,
the authority of the Church of England; per-
secuted the Roman Catholics, which severties
caused the gun powder plot, and from the
quickness with which he grasped and acted
on this occasion it is supposed he had
knowledge of it previous to the official
notice. The project was on the fifth of
November, 1605, to overthrow the govern-
ment by placing explosives under the house
of parliament when it was in session, after-
ward warning all who were Roman Catholics
not to be present,to ignite it and blow them
into eternity, it was the warning of these
Catholics which gave the clue to the pro-
ject in time to prevent it. Guy Fawkes,
although only an accomplice, not the origi-
nator, has been a name detested by all
England.
	James married in 1589 Princess Anne,
daughter of Frederic the II. of Denmark.
During a visit to Scotland in 1619 his eldest
son Henry, Prince of Wales,died. He was de-
sirous of effecting a marriage between his son
Charles, now Prince of Wales, and a Span-
ish Princess and it was while negotiation
for this marriage that insults were received
which resulted in war.
	James' claims to supremacy in religious


as well as civil government led to severe per-
secutions; he confiscated the property of
the Roman Catholic and he manifested his
dislike in many other ways.
	The Puritans or dissenters from the
Church of England were also severely per-
secuted on account of the simplicity of
their faith, and claims of the New Testa-
ment as religious authority caused his per-
secution to extend to this class, fearing they
in their earnestness might have an influence,
which would rob him of his supremacy.
Some fled to Holland, and during these per-
secutions in 1620 the Pilgrims left
England for America.
	Shortly after or about this critical time King
James died, and Charles the First ascended
the throne. He was by nature stronger
than his father, but possessed the same
political views. By the same religious in-
fluence surrounding him, he was made to
believe he could not divest himself of his
despotic authority, and when necessity re-
quired his acting as judge could break any
contract he might make.
	The House of Commons was composed of
able statesmen, who were determined to
conform to parliament, or to govern with-
out law.
	The king dissolved parliment and levied
taxes without legal right. Another parli-
ment was called and dissolved, and still
another, with stronger opposition than
ever. One of the fundamental laws of
England was that the king could not im-
pose taxes without the consent of parlia-
ment; administration was bound to be con-
ducted by law. The king was forced to
call parliament, and on the third of Novem-
ber, 1640, this memorable body began its
sittings. Both houses were firm in their
opposition to his dispotism. He was obliged
to consent to many things against his con-
viction. Seeking to make peace with the
Scots and gain their favor, he visited Scot-
land; while there a massacre against Pro-
testants took place in Ireland, and it seemed
that all hope of peace was destroyed.
	On returning to England he found
Parliament more exacting than ever to-
wards him, but a spirit of greater liberty
towards the people seemed to predominate,
though there still existed the belief in
hereditary monarchy and dissensions arose
in the House of Commons. To weaken
the Royalists would be to obtain possession
of the king. Cromwell seemed to under-
stand the situation. It was desired to
terminate the contest between the crown and
parliament and give the supreme control
over to the executive administration.
	Many Royalists through their love of
monarchial government, were attached to
hereditary monarchy; they took sides with
King Charles, though they were not in
sympathy with his conduct and condemned
and lacked confidence in his policy, yet they
venerated the kingly office.
		[To be Continued.]


