BEAVER CITY, U. T.,May 15th, 1893.

	DIED Wednesday, April 26th, 1893. in the 16th
Ward, Salt Lake City, Sarah Luck Cumberland, 
in the sixty-fifth year of her age. She was born
February 24th, 1829, in England. Was married to 
Francis Luck, Feb. 29th, 1849, by whom she had
one son who died in infancy.
	She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in her youth and was diligent in The
performance of every good work, such as dis-
ributing tracts, visiting the sick and relieving
heir wants, as far as it was in her power. She
was always willing to divide her last morsel with
tthe needy, she was ready to obey the counsel of 
those whom God had appointed to lead His
people.
	She emigrated to Utah in a company of Saints


September, 1857, that was led by Homer Duncan
and some other Elders.
	I will here relate a circumstance which occured
while on her journey to Zion. They were met
by a company of apostates on the way back to
their old home, some of whom she had been
acquainted with in England, when they were in
the Church. They told Sister Sarah she would
be sorry before winter was over if she did not
turn and go back with them, telling her what she
might expect if she went on, but Sister Sarah had
found the pearl of great price and did not feel
to barter away her present and eternal happiness
for what she had already proved could never
satisfy a candidate for eternal life, in the presence
of Him who had gone to prepare a place for all
the faithful in Christ Jesus, so she determined to
hold on to the rod of iron with all the weak-
nesses of human nature to contend with.
	She was married to Henry Cumberland Jan. 20,
1868, she has been diligent in working  for the
Relief Society; filling the office of assistant
secretary for many years and has filled the office
of secretary four years, during which time she
was always prompt, precise and truly faithful in
the performance of every duty pertaining to her
calling. 
	We shall miss her much but now she‘s gone
we’ll not recall her to a suffering world like this.
				DIANA REED, President.
     				MERCY R. THOMPSON, Treasurer.


