	﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MAY—The month of flowers, the month
of beauty. The hill sides are sweet with
the purple sweetwilliams and wild peas
and the fragrance of the fruit tree blossoms
greets one from the garden. Even now, in
this backward spring, the pretty peach
blossom and the fragrant plum and pear
beautify our gardens and nature is smiling
through the storm. Not only does the
beauty of the month of May touch the
heart but the thoughts that this month
bring to us of the loved dead; for always
when the flowers bloom do we long to
gather them and lay them on the graves,
’tis such a little thing to do for our dear
ones, only to take a few blossoms to their
resting place, but it is a tender remembrance
and that one day in all the long year should
be given to the dead is most fitting. True,
every day, the thoughts of the mourner are
with the loved and lost and many a pil-
grimage does she make to the sacred grave,
but Decoration Day is a day for all and the
heart’s sorrow is softened by the mingling
of other sorrows. Then the city of the
dead is a mass of color and as one views it
carpeted with roses and lilies and sweet
blossoms I am sure animosity and ill-feeling
are unknown and good will and affection
for our fellow men prevails throughout the
land. This beautiful day each year brings
us nearer heaven and heaven nearer us.
	Mme. Isabella Bogelot of France has
recently arrived in this country. She
comes to attend the Woman’s Congress at
Chicago as a delegate from the society of
the Liberated Prisoners of St. Lagare of
which society she is the Directress-general.
The notices of the arrival of this dis-
tinguished woman and the extensive descrip-
tions of her personal charms and her won-
derful work in the different eastern papers
proves her greatness as a public benefactor.
Mme. Bogelot began her public career in
1876 and in 1888 was elected Directress-
general. Since that time she has repre-
sented the society at several times abroad—
at the Roman Congress in 1885, at
Louisanna in 1887 and at the Council at
Washington in 1888. What of her charms
and her work? Her charms are her great
human sympathy and her kindly ministra-
tion especially for unfortunate women, and
her work is her continued labor for the
cause of her society. In her own words she
says, ‘‘Why I give my whole time to it,

[Column 2]
every day from morning until night and I
have been doing it for the last eighteen
years. She took a course in clinics so that
if cases of surgery or medicine should be
necessary while engaged in her philanthrop-
ic duties she would be found competent.
	No woman even in the lowest prison cell
is too degraded or too low for her kindly
ministrations; and she opens her arms and
her heart to the unfortunate and strives to
lift them to a brighter, nobler life with her
magnetic influence and deep spmpathy and
her own beautiful life. She has brought
hundreds of fallen women from their low
positions and taught them so that their
lives were no more dishonored that they no
more contemplated self destruction but
tried to live honestly and uprightly.
	The past winter in this city such a work
as Mme. Bogelots was begun. It is called
“The Rescue,’’and is a home for fallen wo-
men who wish to reform or for unfortunate
girls who have been led astray and desire
to retrace their steps and lead virtuous
lives. It is not a home for them to idle
away their time in useless repining nor is
it a reform school with iron bars and prison
rules but a real true home, where work is
provided both for the mind and the hands
and a moral atmosphere pervades. These
noble souls who saw the field for such a
society and felt to sacrifice their time to the
work of it must have the same instincts
and human love which has actuated Mme.
Bogelots and her associates. May their
success be such that the difficulties of the
work will not be heeded. It is sad to
realize that Salt Lake City should require
such a society. Not many years since the
sight of a drunken woman onthe streets
was unknown and at first if at rare
instances such a sight were seen it struck
the beholder with horror, but with the
opening of mines, the increase of railroads,
the advance of the city towards a metropoli-
tan plane, crime has also increased and with
it of course the necessity for such a society.
May the brave women who have organized
it find among themselves such a leader as
Mme. Bogelots, for then their work will
certainly become successful and their names
be ever great for the good that they have
done.
	THE young women are beating the young
men in McGill College, up in Montreal, too.
Although only eleven women are taking the
degree of B. A. out of a graduating class of
thirty-nine, yet out of eleven graduating in
honors six are women, and out of five
medallists three are women, showing that
in taking honors the women have, in propor-
tion to their number, done three times as well
as the men.


