THE FLOWER GARDEN.
          
	THE blue heavens seem to smile upon a
dark and fretted land, and as the rays of
sparkling sunshine are thrown across the
surface, that land becomes brighter and
reflects the smile. The soft breezes of
spring note the meeting and wave congratu-
lations, and with the wind and the sunshine
the coldness leaves the soil and the earth is
ready for the tiller’s hand. We venture
from the sheltering house and gaze on the
surrounding landscape. ‘Tis but a thought
quickly executed to gather all signs of
debris and litter together and cart them
away. A huge bonfire made of the dry
weeds, the bits of paper, and other rubbish
around the yard is a delight to the children
and a speedy and happy way of getting rid
of it. The yard once cleaned, then the soil

[Column 2]
needs turning over, that the sun may re-
move the dense dampness, then a breaking
of the hard lumps and leveling the soil and
it lies ready for the seed. There are hun-
dreds of beautiful ways to arrange the
yard,and landscape gardening is become an
art. As a pastime there is nothing
pleasanter than the care of a flower garden.
Children so enjoy helping and if to them a
spot of the yard is given for them to plant
and weed and water not only are they pass-
ing the hours pleasantly but are at the
same time taking practice lessons in botany
and horticulture and assisting in beautify-
ing the home surroundings.
	Some talk about the old fashioned flowers.
is such a thing possible, does nature have
fashions? If so, give us those dear old
fashioned things and we will arrange them
for a background to this flower garden of
ours, for what garden path is complete with-
out the tall hardy hollyhock to brighten the
way and amuse the children with their
big fanciful flowers, and then the old
fashioned flowers are mostly annuals and
once in the ground require very little care.
As to trying to describe a flower garden, so
many sweet visions of these pretty spots
present themselves before me, and I should
like the time and space to describe severally
the dear old gardens I have seen, but alas!
there are so many. What home is com-
plete without its little garden and yet may
I be forgiven if I try to describe one I
know so well for it will be a guide perhaps
to us all. It lies in the pretty and thriving
town of Ogden, and a dear oid lady who
has worked many years at the loom and at
other hard labor, uutil her hands were hard
and rough, her body weak and tired, now
in her prosperous days enjoys beyond all
things else the care of her flower garden
and such a spot it is. She will take you
through her yard and point with such
pride to the arrangement and selection of
these pretty things. On either side of the
gate rises to greet you a tall and queenly
rose and along the path lies a border of
sweet alysum, candy tuft and the blue
lobelia, near the door on either side are
large round beds of geraniums,ever a favor-
ite flower especially for bright and showy
coloring, and we are told if one wishes to
have flowers all the year round to leave the
old plants in the ground and only slip them
for the winter the young slip will grow
sufficiently during the winter to supply
the next years beds, and thus one always
has healthy and flowering geraniums.
	Along the outer border are tall graceful
dahlias,and a deep and brilliant back ground
they make to the beds and clusters of
delicate daises, petunias, asters, marigolds,
larkspurs, mignonette, nasturtiums and
the sweet scented stocks and wall flowers
and the universal favorite the hearts-ease
or pansy. We touch a beautiful little pink
blossom and ask what it may be, “That is
an English primrose from my brother’s
garden,” and this sparkling white flower
pray what is that: “Oh! that is the evening
star, it opens its pretty face to the starlight
but the golden sun is too dazzling for its
dainty bloom: so you see I have flowers day
and night, summer and winter. In early
morning when I open the window to air
my rooms these beautiful morning glories
greet me’ and at night when I take a fare-
well look at my garden these little stars
seem to say good night, we will watch the
flowers until you come again." "A very pret-
ty garden” one might say, “but we haven’t

[Column 3]
a brother in England to send us primroses
nor are we near enough to a florists to get
the cuttings and roots of these pretty things
you describe. Perhaps not, but let me tell
you, just begin a garden if you have but a
single plant to put therein and when the
soil is ready look about you for something
to plant; in a meadow near by hidden
among the grasses are wild violets, true they
are not fragrant but their deep green leaves
and purple flowers are just as pretty, if not
so sweet, as the tame one and then perhaps
cultivation will produce the lacking quality.
I mean to try it, for my little girls have
planted them along the north side of the
house and this morning I counted seven
blossoms on one root and, strange to say,
those flowers were almost as blue as forget-
menots although the others were purple.
Do your boys or your neighbor’s boys go
into the canyons for wood? If so, have
them bring down a few young pines and
plant them in groups here and there in
your yard.
	The foliage is evergreen and if not so
fine as the Arba vitae, it or other imported
shrub is certainly a noble looking tree; and
while felling the wood get them to dig up
a few of those lovely columbines, no
gardener ever raised a lovelier flower than
this and it can easily be found in our
mountains, so also can long feathery ferns
but of course one must have a moist, shady
place for them. Now when the few wild
things are started see how quickly your
neighbors and friends will help you “Why
are you going to have a flower garden, let me
give you a few roots, I want to clear out my
beds and I have some seeds as well that
you may have.” I know some one will
say this to you for I myself started a
garden this summer and the little girls
brought home seeds from school that other
little girls had given them and I only
bought one lilac bush and now in less than
a month I have a long row of lilacs all
along the north front, nine bushes I believe;
and violet and pink roots, in plenty and I
never asked for a single one, but in a few
years I expect to help some one else from
these pretty plants for I love to see gardens
every where.
	There is a time of day when too early to
light the lamp and too late to work indoors
without it; one naturally seeks the garden.
It is that sweet dreamy twilight hour, and
that is the time of all others the garden
wants you most. The sun has left the
garden heated and thirsty and now in the
cool early evening an hour’s work in the
garden is a great delight. FLORA.


The fact  that an   English  duchess  has
been  sent  to   a  common  prison   for  six
months for contempt  of court,   has led  to
many  comments  of  approval  that justice
was no   respecter  of persons  in   England.
But it is, all  the  same,  when the  offender
is of  the  other  sex.   While  the   Duchess
goes to prison for  a technical  offense Lord
Hastings, a dissipated rake,  and unworthy
of his great name, is fined a paltry  £50 for
the most despicable outrage upon a serving
maid which would  certainly  have sent   an
ordinary person to prison.
	MRS. ISABELLA BIRD BISHOP, the well-
known  traveler     and   writer   of books of
travel,   is the   first  woman  to deliver an  ad-
dress  before the British House of Commons.
She   was summoned   there to tell   what she
had   seen   of   the    Christians   in   Turkish
Koordistan.


