WOMEN AS PHYSICIANS.

WRITTEN for the U. W. P. C. June 27,1893
	This is a subject I feel incompetent to do
justice to as we find the pens of many of
our great writers busy extolling the women
physicians of today for the proficiency in
the science and art of medicine to which
she has attained. Nor can there be enough
said or written on this subject until it be-
comes acknowledged to be as necessary for
every girl and woman to be carefully trained
in the medical science, as it is for her to
learn to read and write. Woman is the
heaven-appointed guardian of infancy and
youth, and to her belongs the careful train-
ing in all that tends to elevate man
physically, as well as mentally and morally.


There is a mother aptness in woman that
naturally adapts itself to the conditions of
the sick room, especially do we see this in
women of experience.
	Health is the greatest earthly boon that
can be given to man, and the science that
teaches how to preserve and restore it
should be taught to those who mature,
bring forth, and nurture mankind in its
infancy. Anciently the care of women
was in the hands of women. We read
that midwifery was entirely in their hands
both among the Egyptians and the Heb-
rews. We have all read, no doubt, in
Exodus how the Hebrew midwives out-
witted the king of Egypt, when he de-
manded that they should kill all the male
children, "But the midwives feared the
Lord." They cared nothing whatever for
the great king of Egypt. "Therefore God
dealt with the midwives, and the people
multiplied and waxed very mighty."
There is no reason to suppose that those
women did not understand the science and
art they were practicing, for we find even
to this late day, carried out amongst that
people, physological principles and hygenic
laws, that have long since past into tenets,
or traditions of their faith; but to which
modern physiologists attribute the vitality
and hardihood of the race and especially
the health of their women.
	The Greeks and Romans conferred this
branch of medicine to women. Pharnarete,
the mother of Socrates, was a midwife, and
Plato explains the functions and mentions
the duties undertaken by those women."
The works of Arsino and Cleopatra give
accounts of the women of those days being
well versed in the doctrines and practice of
medicine and then understood. We are told
there was early a law passed in Athens
prohibiting women practicing physics in
any of its branches. Modern writers have
considered this a proof that the science
did not prosper in their hands. But may
we not judge men that then, as now,
had a desire to occupy alone, all the
lucrative and important positions that
should have been occupied by both sexes.
It is well understood that during the dark
ages women were held as very little better
than slaves, and poor advancement was
made in this science as well as all others.
We need not be surprised that the ideas and
barbarous blunders of one man, although
he is considered the father of medicine, was
carried out in practice in Europe for nearly
two thousand years after his death, when
we consider that woman, with her quick
perceptions of error, was excluded from the
study. We have no further account of
women accomplishing anything in any of
the branches of medicine until Mesdames
Lachapell and Bavin, French accouchers of
great eminence, who were born in the
seventeenth century and who were not
afraid to depart from the errors practiced
and taught by their masters and "To
whose high position and scientific research
is attributed the starting point of a new era
for obstetrics in France." America has
taken the lead in educating her women as
physicians, so women have flocked here
from many other lands to receive the bless
ings and honors conferred upon them in the
medical institutes that are established
here. Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell was the
first woman in this country to obtain the
degree of M. D. She commenced her
studies in 1843. After struggling and study-
ing under different professors, and giving
careful attention to hospital work she was


[Column 1]
admitted to a full course of lectures at the
Geneve College, N.Y., where she graduated
in 1849 and afterward rose to great
leminence in her profession. In connection
with her sister, Dr. Emily Blackwell, she was
at the head of a hospital and medical col-
lege for women in N. Y. City.” These wo-
men are considered the pioneers. In 1844.
the subject of women as physicians began
to engage the attention of some of our scien-
tific men.
	“In 1848 Samuel Gregory opened a medi-
cal school for women and over fifty thousand
dollars was bequeathed to it from different
sources. From that school was graduated
many who attained to great proficiency.
The Large Eclectic College of Ohio was
one of the first to welcome women as
students. In 1850 the Rochester Eclectic
school opened its doors to women. In 1853
the Pennsylvania University was started in
Philadelpha with separate departments of
instruction for men and for women. Since
the doors of the medical colleges have been
thrown open to women, thousands have
graduated with honors and rose to great
proficiency in the practice of medicine, and
many have shown superior ability, as
principals, deans, and professors of the
various branches of medicine in the medi-
cal colleges all over our land. Many of
these experienced women physicians have
spent years abroad searching out the kernels
of experience, to bring home and enrich
this country already abundant in scientific
research.
	Dr. Clemence J. Lozier was one who
early studied medicine. She commenced her
studies in 1849, after several institutes had
refused her admission because she was a
woman. She graduated at the Syracuse
Eclectic College in 1853, and by her untir-
ing efforts a woman’s medical college was
established in New York City in 1863.
She visited Europe, where every courtesy
was show her for the inspection of hospitals.
Dr. Annie Bromall, a graduate of the Wo-
man’s Medical College of Philadelphia,
attained to great proficency as a practitioner
and as a lecturess. She spent years abroad
visiting hospitals in Paris, Vienna and
London. Mary C. Putman, who graduated
in 1864,and afterward studied in Paris, was
the first woman admitted to visit the school
of medicine in that city. Dr. Sarah
Hackett Steavenson was the first woman
admitted to the American Medical As-
sociation. This occured in June, 1876. The
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin of June 2nd,
said, “the doctors have combined mil-
lennial and centennial glories. The largest
assemblage of the medical profession yes-
terday honored itself by bursting the bands
of ancient prejudices and admitted a wo-
man to its membership by a vote that
proved that the long waged battle is won
and that henceforth professional qualifica-
tions and not sex is to be the best of stand-
ing in the medical world.
	Dr. Emily Horton Cleveland,of Philadel-
phia, who was eminently superior as
practitioner and lecturer, is often mentioned
in relation to her great domestic qualifi-
cations as wife and mother. Dr. S. H.
Stevenson very appropriately has said, .
“one can spend a lifetime in scientific work
without being known outside of her im-
mediate circle. If the vitality which a
surgeon uses in carrying out a single
operation, or that a physician expends in
carrying through a single case, or a
physiologist consumes in a single lecture,

[Column 2]
if the same amount of energy was coined
into letters and published as literature, the
author’s name would be heralded abroad by
every tongue. We are indebted to some of
America’s greatest women for much that
has been written on these interesting facts;
and there are still volumes to be written.
Women as physicians are seeking to dis-
seminate knowledge among the masses,
to establish a better condition of physical
culture, to bring about reform in dress
thereby getting at the cause and prevention
of diseases among their own sex that need
not exist.
	Utah has made a start in this direction,
she has her pioneer women physicians,
who have made great efforts to establish
schools of obstetrics that we might have
plenty of scientific and practical midwives;
but the demand for such help is very very
much greater than the supply. Our towns
are rapidly growing in population and those
settlements, which a few years ago would
have to go many miles for a doctor in case
of emergency now support one, two or
more doctors. There should be a thorough
woman physician in all such places. We
require very many young women to take
up the study of obstetrics who can give
plenty of time to become thorough masters
of the science and art of this study. It is
a department of medicine that is of very
great importance and especially should it
be so to us. To excel in this special branch
is considered to have reached the euclid
of the profession. We find men with us
taking the places that should be occupied
by women, as the care of women and
children should be in the hands of women.
There, is no wonder that there is such a
cry against women as physicians in Utah.
The men know if this department of medi-
cine was occupied by women, many of
them would have to turn to other pursuits
or seek other climes for a livelihood, which
would no doubt be a good thing for Utah.
For, while we realize that we have many
men who are fine physicians and gentlemen,
we have many whose characters would not
bear inspection and are not fit creatures to
wait on the fair daughters of Zion. An-
other reason that women should be
physicians—women will combine their
knowledge with faith. Women have
always had great faith, it is natural for her
to lean on a Superior Being, and shall we
become so professional that we depart from
our old time blessing? “The prayer of
faith shall heal the sick.” A glowing
tribute could be paid to the women of
faith who worked with the sick in early
days before physicians came to Utah. I
am not afraid to say that the mortality in
the same number of cases and conditions
is not nearly so great with our women
physicians as with men physicians, because
of their faith.
	Often in the very face of death, when no
earthly power could aid, in the midnight
hour, in the anguish of her soul, she would
cry to the Great Physician of all, “O Father
if it is not against Thy decree, give, O give
back the life that she might live to rear her
children and teach them to tread the paths
that lead to thee, ” and she has been re-
warded, a miracle has been wrought and
many lives restored, and God has answered
her, “Go,my daughter, with thy faith I am
well pleased keep in thy good work what
e’er thou [---] eth for mine afflicted shall be
granted for my angels they are with thee
and I will not refuse. Struggle on in thy

[Column 3]
great calling, no mission is there greater
than to help my precious daughters to
bring forth the souls of men and no case
shalt thou have that thou canst not deliver,
for I will bless thee with great skill, and
remember if thou canst not then I will."
Such are the blessings that the daughters
of Zion will receive that will prepare
themselves for the work.
