antism. The Church of England is Pro-
testant as sympathizing with the protest
made in Germany, and Catholic as claim-
ing to be a portion of the universal apos-
tolic church of Christ. In the 16th century
its vassalage to Rome was broken off, and
since then the Roman church has main-
tained a hostile attitude towards it. The
Church of England has always had a
national character. Henry VIII., as every
student of history knows, was not much in-
fluenced by love of truth and purity in
what he did towards setting England free
from papal tyranny and superstition. He
had his own ends to serve, and looked
out for that in every step which he took.
If he did no good to Protestantism, if he
were a tyrant and a beastly tyrant too, he
certainly crushed under his heel the insolent
pretensions of the pope to rule over and
draw revenue from England, and in so
far at least, was an instrument in the hands
of God for beginning the good work in
England. During his reign the punish-
ment of death was decreed against all who
refused to acknowledge the doctrine of
transubstantiation. Edward VI. died
young, and unhappily before much could
be done for reformation. Mary succeeded
him, and very soon gave the English people
a bitter draught of that cup which Rome
has always made her victims quaff when
she has had them entirely under her con-
trol. It is said that more people were ex-
ecuted during her reign than in all the
reigns before or since. Elizabeth came to
the throne with a large share of her father’s
imperiousness, and with energy and ability
probably unsurpassed by any monarch that
has ever, as yet, guided the destines of
England. She was fond of show and dis-
play in religious things, and was determined
that the established church should have

[Column 2]
all the advantage and dignity which these
could afford. She was conscientiously op-
posed to popery, and equally indisposed to
the bold, stern simplicity of the Puritanical
worship. She had no liking for those who
opposed her views, and held a tight hand,
during all her reign, over the heads of those
who pleaded further reformation and larger
liberty than the Church of England had
ever been willing to allow.
	Under James and Charles we still find
the same difference of opinion, and the
several opposing sects that had parted off
from the parent church in opposite direc-
tions, each contending for what they con-
sideredtheir rights. The Puritans had no
more notion of toleration than any other
party; its object, like that of every other
party of those times, was not the mere
toleration, but the exclusive establishment
of its own system. But every change,
every debate, helped to bring about religious
toleration in the end, and as the Puritan
movement was largely a movement against
arbitrary authority, it was necessarily a
movement in favor of freedom. The Puri-
tans planted themselves upon the open,
naked Bible, as the only safe chart and
guide in religious and civil duties and
obligations, and scouted at all tradition,
without exception, as certainly the rem-
nants of popery and superstition. The
Church of England adherents, while, they
freely and fully declared that the Holy
Scripture contains all things necessary to
salvation, yet claimed that deference was
due to the testimony and practice of the
primitive church, and were willing to
yield respect to what they deemed primi-
tive tradition and the unanimous consent of
the fathers and doctors of the first ages.
They counted ceremonies such as were re-
tained in the Church as useful and edifying,
and calculated to help forward the cause of
truth and godliness. The Puritans com-
plained of all ceremonies as marring the
simplicity and purity of the Gospel. They
also denied the need of ordination by a
bishop in order to preach the gospel and
administer the sacraments, while the other
party refused them and have always refused
to allow any one to officiate in the Church
of England, unless he first receive order by
the laying on of a bishop’s hands. Some
very interesting productions written during
these controversies, may be found by those
who have the inclination to read them in
Milton’s L’Allegro, Il Penseron and Comus.
	Under James I. the Puritans asked to be
allowed, while remaining as ministers in
the church to omit certain ceremonies
to which they objected, but this
he would not agree to.
	The persecution now became so severe
that the Puritans could no longer endure it,
and a company of them fled to Holland,
where they could enjoy religious freedom.
They remained there, many others of their
faith continually joining them, during
twelve years. Their pastor, John Robin-
son, was a very worthy and honorable man,
and gave them such good care and instruc-
tion that they lived there in harmony and
peace for all those years. But they were


﻿loyal to England at heart, and disliked
the thought of having their posterity
merged into the Dutch nation. They were
ill at ease, and their thoughts turned to-
wards the New World, both on account of
their religion, and also on account of their
temporal advancement.
	About the 22nd of July, 1620, all who
were considered strong enough to endure
the hardships of pioneers, embarked on
board a small vessel, the Speedwell that had
been purchased in Holland, preparatory for
their long journey. The parting was very
affecting, their good pastor kneeling in their
midst, giving them his parting blessing,
and commending them to the care of God.
With many sad farewells and earnest hand-
claspings, they started on their remarkable
voyage. At Southampton, England, they
were joined by a larger vessel, the historic
Mayflower. The two vessels started,
but the Speedwell was found to be unsea-
worthy, and after putting back twice for
repairs, the Speedwell was finally abandon
ed, and all who could be accomodated
crowded into the Mayflower, and on Sep-
tember 6th, were finally launched on their
way. Their being obliged to leave part of
their number behind, here caused another
distressing scene of farewells. The voyage
was disagreeable and perilous in the ex-
treme. They encountered the equinoctial
gales, and for days were tossed about in an
almost disabled condition. To add to their
distress one of their number died and had
to be buried at sea.
	It was not until the 9th of November
that they came in sight of land. They
attempted to land in several places, but
were in danger of being swamped, and
after waiting for some time, finally found
their way into Cape Cod Harbor. The
Pilgrims were men of prayer, and asked
the Divine guidance and blessing on all
they did. On Saturday, November 11th,
religious services were held on board the
Mayflower, returning thanks to God for
His goodness to them, and imploring His
aid in the future. As there were some
signs of insubordination on board, it was
deemed advisable to enter into a voluntary
compact for self government. John Carver
was chosen governor for one year, and
Miles Standish captain, and the whole
number of men, who with their wives and
children amounted to one hundred and one
souls’ affixed their signatures to the follow-
ing document:
	“In the name of God. Amen. We
whose names are under-written, the loyal
subjects of our dread Sovereign Lord, King
James, by the grace of God, of Great
Britain, France and Ireland, King, defender
of the faith, etc.
	Having undertaken for the glory of God
and the advancement of the Christian faith
and the honor of our king and country, a
voyage to plant the first colony in the
northern parts of Virginia, do by these
presents solemnly and mutually, in the
presence of God and one another, covenant
and combine ourselves together into a civil
body-politic, for our better order and
preservation, and furtherance of the ends
aforesaid, and by virtue hereof to enact,
constitute and frame such first and equal
laws, ordinances, acts, constitutions and
offices, from time to time as shall be
thought most meet and convenient for the
general good of the colony; unto which we
promise all due submission and obedience.
	In virtue whereof we have here-under

[Column 2]
subscribed our names. Cape Cod, 11th
November, 1620.
	In the reign of our sovereign Lord, King
James of England, France and Ireland 18,
and of Scotland 54.”
	This, document was the germ of our free
and popular self-government, the benefits
of which cannot be too fully appreciated
even down to the present time.
			[To be Continued.]


