SILK CULTURE IN UTAH.

	THE silk industry was fairly started in
Utah as early as the year 1867.
	Mrs. Dunyon, a resident of Draper, went
to President Brigham Young and stated
that her father understood the raising of
silk and that she believed that it would
prove a profitable industry here as the
climate, etc., was everything to be desired
for the successful raising of the silkworm.
President Young had previously sent for
the seeds of the black and white mulberry
trees to France which he planted on one
of his farms called Forest Farm. He also
sent East for some silkworm eggs. Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, who was for years
President of the silk association in Utah
taking charge of the same and that year
raising two hundred pounds of cocoons and
thirty-six ounces of eggs for another year.
	For several years the silk business proved
almost a failure and in 1872 it was taken
up by Mrs. Dunyon and myself, we meet-
ing with extraordinary success; we raised
about seven hundred pounds of cocoons
that year.
	I also learned to double and twist the
silk on a wool spinning wheel.
	The silk proved of first-class quality and
learned to raise silk in its crude state,
thouroughly understanding the different
processes from taking care of the eggs up
to preparing the raw silk for weaving, and
this in face of the fact that we had no
machinery of any kind. Mrs. Robertson
taught us how to double and twist and
spin the silk.
	As regards the feeding and raising of
silkworms the process is one in which
great care and attention is required.
	The moths or millers are placed upon
sheets of paper to lay their eggs, one mil-
ler will lay five hundred eggs or more.
	The eggs are left on the sheets
of paper and placed in a perforated box
until spring when the mulberry leaves be-
gin to grow ready for feed. The eggs have
to be kept warm until they are hatched,
when hatched they are about the size of a
point of a pin and being black they can just
be seen.
	You could then take what worms that
you could place comfortably on your hand
and they (placed on hurdles) when fully
grown would fill a room sixteen by sixteen
feet and eleven feet high.
	From the time the worms are hatched
until they are ready to spin is about five
weeks.
	They molt every five days and they are
changed every five days from one hurdle
to another, one half of the quantity being
placed on the hurdles as they increase in
size.
	When first fed the mulberry leaves are
broken up in small pieces and fed to
them, but as they increase in size whole
leaves and then branches are given, and the
last two weeks the worms have to be fed
day and night.

[column 2]
	When they have eaten and are ready to spin
they begin to hunt a place by throwing their
head around as though they were trying to
catch at something. Then we prepare
frames of lath, far enough apart for the
worms to crawl into, a double set of lath,
as it were, the worms seem to like the
roughness of the lath. They attach their
webb, something like a spider’s webb. only
thicker to form their cocoons in, that is,
they hang themselves in the wall and build
all around, compressing themselves into
one quarter of their natural size, spinning
from the inside, until they are increased;
they then change, it takes from three to
four days to make a cocoon and then they
lay dormant about five days after the
cocoon is finished. You have to pick out
the largest cocoons for those that you want
to produce eggs, and in about five days they
come out as millers which mating produce
eggs for the next year. Those of the
cocoons that we wish to produce silk, we
put in the sun or an oven to kill the
chrysalis. Those that the millers come
out of are called perforated cocoons and the
thread being broken they cannot be used
for the finest silk but for an inferior grade.
	Now the cocoons in which the chrysalis
has been killed are ready for spinning, we
would take a dozen or twenty-five cocoons
according to the size of the thread we need
and putting the cocoons into boiling water
take a small cluster of broom straws and
beat the cocoons until you catch up the
threads and then hang the threads up on
a hook or a wire and run upon to the rest
ready for twisting.
	It was very difficult to feed them at
Forest Farm,as the mulberry trees were too
high.
	The mulberry trees should be raised in
brush and planted in rows and each row
should be cut every other year.
