		  CAMILLA C. COBB.

       On the death of her darling Gracie.

“No more! a harp-string’s deep and breaking tone,
   A last low summer breeze, a far-off swell,
A dying echo of rich music gone,
   Breathe through those words— those murmurs
      of farewell:
					No more!”

    IT is so hard   to   part from  the  darling
over whom you have   watched  with tender
love  and  solicitude;   so  hard  to  see  the
warm breath of  life freeze  on  the pale lips,
and the loving eyes close to  open  no more
in this life!
    Yet sister—friend,   dear   little  faithful
mother,   think   of her   in   the realms  of
glory, basking  in  the smile  of Him  who 
said, “Let the little ones come unto me for
of such is the kingdom of  heaven.”
    Let all the thoughts of   your darlings be
of the great happiness they now enjoy, in
their heavenly home;  how they  anxiously
await your coming, how  they  watch  over
you and love you more and more.
    May  the  words  of your   Gracie always
comfort you, “God loves  us beyond;" and 
may  her dear hands  hold  the golden  cord
that shall draw you to her.
    May her love be the beacon that will light
you through  the rest  of your   journey   in
life.
    Your   many,   many  friends  feel   deep
sympathy for you, dear  Camilla, and  fain
would help  you in  this dark hour.    Yet
with confidence we leave you in the hands
of a loving Father   “Who doeth  all  things
well.”
    May  His love   support  you  and  may
sweet strains of   celestial music   fall   on
your tried spirit,  like  the low  murmur  of
many waters in the ear, lulling  and sooth-
ing you to a sense of peace and rest, that
the world cannot give or take away.    Then 
in the end you will feel to say,

“Through long, long years to seek, to strive to
	yearn
   For human love—and never quench that thirst,
To pour the soul out, wi nning no return, 
   O’er fragile idols, by  delusion nursed—
				No more!

“On things that fail  us, reed  by reed, to  lean, 
   To mourn the changed, the far away, the dead;
To send our troubled spirits through the unseen,
   Intensely questioning for treasure fled—
				No more!

Words of triumphant music—bear us on  
   The weight of life, the chain, the  ungenial air;
Their deathless meaning,  when  our  tasks  are
	done
   To learn in joy;—to struggle, to despair 
			No more!

Words of despair! yet earth’s all earths—the woe
   Their passion breathes—the desolately deep!
That sound in heaven—oh! image then the flow
   Of gladness in its tunes—to  part, to weep—
				No more!"
			Lovingly,
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
