WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Is it not about time that joking at the ex-
pense of public women should be stopped?
You can hardly take up a daily paper
throughout the land but you will find a
coarse fling at some earnest reformer, the
single woman of unavowed age, or the
mother-in law. Her age is a pebble in the
hand of every underwitted reporter to
fling at her. Her zeal is but the jeer of
triflers, whose influence in the world, com-
pared to hers, is less than the breath of a
broken bellows. Her individuality is mere
crankism in the estimation of striplings,
who, if they should live until Time him-
self grew gray, would never know one-
hundredth part as much as she did before
she learned the alphabet. Men who never
in this world, nor in the far-away possi-
bilities of the next, can hope to sprout a
soul, bandy jests at her expense; stale
witticisms are flung at her airily as old
boots are thrown at vagrant cats. Is there
nothing left for man’s veneration? Has it
come to pass that even the divine love of
motherhood, with all its tender patience
and jealous care, is without honor among
men? Our grandmothers tell us, as one re-
calls the legends of a forgotten past, that
there was a time when children were taught
to be reverent; when young men were
chivalrous and old men courtly, yielding a
beautiful deference to woman, as her right,
and to motherhood as to the coronation that
made a mother queen of heaven! Did you
ever stop to think, when you joined in the
laugh that followed some coarse minstrel
joke at a mother-in-law’s expense, of all
that is involved in that term? A mother
has received from heaven, heavens’
choicest gift—a precious child. She has
brooded over every moment of its infant
life; she has stood next to God in its help-
lessness; she has nursed it through terrible
illness; she has guided and controlled,
prayed away temptation and interposed her
own bosom between the shafts of sorrow
and its tender heart. The child has grown
to womanhood, dear as her own soul, as
necessary to her being as sunshine is to the
gaunt old earth—when lo! up steps a dap-
per youth and beckons her girl away.
Where love leads young feet will follow,
and the mother’s heart is bereft of its
treasure, given over to the care of a
stranger. I declare, when I think of it
I wonder there is a sane mother-in-law in
the world.


