SPRING HINTS.

	IN the spring when nature puts on her
fresh and bright apparel, one longs also for
a change and as the warm days approach
we begin to plan lighter and fresher adorn-
ment both for the home and person.
	For wearing apparel there are so many
inexpensive materials in tweeds and serges,
in light colors, soft gray sand browns, tans,
and if one prefers, dark blues, that make
stylish and pretty gowns, but there is noth-
ing fresher or prettier than the ginghams,
and this year the patterns are especially
pretty in such bright contrasting colors in
plaids or stripes and best of all they wash
so clearly and nicely and are so cheap that
one can easily afford to be well dressed.
	Emptying out the wardrobes and folding
and laying aside the winter clothing and
wraps, to make room for the new lighter
clothes is rather a tiresome piece of work,
but if well done one fully appreciates it in
the fall, for it is such a comfort to take out
the warm clothing and find it all ready for
use, no mending, no buttons to sew on, and
best of all no moth-eaten places.  When
one is ready to lay aside the winter clothes
they should be properly mended and clean-
ly brushed and hung for a few hours in the
sun to make sure no moth is laid away 
with them, then carefully folded or rolled
and placed in a close box.  If one chooses a
little camphor or tobacco sprinkled among
them is good, but you will find black pep-
per will keep the moths out just as well,
still if the box is well made and a tight-
fitting lid there is not much danger from
moths.  If you have no chest for the clothes
a seamless sack will serve the purpose just
as well, and if you prefer, wrap in news-
paper first.
	Kerosene is taking quite a place in the
house work, but of course one must take
great care in the use of it.  Servant girls
are likely to misuse it, as an exchange said
lately, "five hundred things are made of
kerosene, including angels."  First of all
don't let the girl light the fire with it.
	A spoonful of it mixed with soap into a
soft soap and turned into the boiler will
make a soft suds for washing that cannot
be improved upon.  To clean the bath tub,
the sink and the zinc under the stoves it is
a great help and it adds a luster to the
tiles and hearth if used with the soap when
washing them.
	Just now when there is so much sickness
around, perhaps the readers of the
EXPONENT would like to know how to

[Column 2]
fumigate a room thoroughly and easily, and
I can give you a perfect and a proven
recipe.
	Close all the air holes, even the stove draft,
and throw all the bedding and clothes of
the room loosely on chairs or other furniture,
take a pound of sulphur and break it in
two or three pieces, place it in a tin plate
and place the plate on the bricks or in a pan of
water so there will be no danger of fire,
pour alcohol over the sulphur and light it,
light the one farthest from the door first
and move quickly so as not to inhale any of
the fumes, close the door tightly and leave 
the sulphur to burn.  It will be some hours
before the room can be opened and it is best
f possible to leave it a day and night, then
the following morning raise the windows
and let the air and sunshine in.  No gem
or bacilli can possibly live through that and
if this is carefully followed your room is
ready for cleaning and occupying again.


[Column 1]
