[Vol32 | July 1945 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Suggestions and]

LESSON DEPARTMENT Suggestions and Instructions on the Educational program COURSES for the coming educational year 1945-46, October through May, are as follows: Theology ? Church History (Continued). Visiting Teachers' Messages ?
Sources of Strength: Charity. Literature ? The Bible in Our Literature. Social Science ? Modern Applications of Moral Principles (Continued). Again, as was the case for the educational year 1944-45, there are no special lessons outlined for use by the missions, since it is felt that all the lessons are suitable for use in the missions either as they are written or with slight adaptations. Moreover, according to present Church procedure in regard to lesson material taught by any auxiliary, all lessons to be taught must be approved by the Church Publications Committee through the General Board. This, therefore, renders it improper for missions or stakes to substitute lessons of their own choosing in place of the theology, visiting teachers' messages, literature or social science lessons which appear in The Relief Society Magazine and have been approved. The Goal of Relief Society Teaching Depending upon the skill of the teacher, many and varied methods of conducting a class period may be followed. All Relief Society teachers are not equally trained in teaching and many fine teachers have not had professional training. The best teachers, however, are always eager to improve their methods and make more effective their teaching. It is of paramount importance, however highly skilled a teacher may be, that she teach in the spirit of the gospel and give prayerful and conscientious study to her lessons. In addition, however, to the preparation of the lesson by a teacher, she should present it in such a way as to awaken in the members of her class a wish to study and gain knowledge for themselves.
This desired end may be obtained by a variety of methods?by class participation either by an informal discussion, questions and answers, or by a more formal presentation such as a round table, panel discussion, etc., or by home study on the part of individual members.
Whatever the means employed by the class leader, the result will be good teaching if both she and the Relief Society class members add to and increase their knowledge and strengthen their testimonies. Page 
 ?JULY 1945
The lessons in the Social Science course for 1945-1946 "Modern Applications of Moral Principles" are to be taught in the light of revealed truth, as these principles have been set forth in gospel teachings. Special attention should therefore be given to the use of the references to Church literature found at the end of each lesson. In all Relief Society lessons the material taught must conform strictly to Church doctrine and belief. It is a great responsibility to undertake to teach a group of fellow Relief Society women. It is also a great privilege. From the hours of intensive study spent in preparation for each Relief Society lesson by a class leader come intellectual growth and a greater understanding of the gospel. May each class leader in the coming season do her utmost to impart knowledge to her class members and also awaken in them a desire to study and learn for themselves so that the testimonies of all Relief Society members may be strengthened. While lesson titles and lesson anus for each of the courses of study for the ensuing year are given in the previews, these are subject to change. Correspondence on Lessons Ward class leaders who desire help on any matter pertaining to a lesson should consult their stake leaders. Stake leaders desiring information may address such correspondence to  1, Utah. It is not desirable to address communications either to the authors of the lessons or to any other Church office. Textbooks and Special References Textbooks should be supplied for the use of the respective class leaders from the funds of the Society. On the completion of the course the books should be returned to the Society for inclusion in the Relief Society library. If the special references are Church books, it may be desirable to purchase one or two for present and future availability. However, if the books do not hold lasting interest, it will be better to use library copies rather than to purchase books which will have only slight use. Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not partake of his goodness? Behold I say unto you, Nay; but all men are privileged the one like unto the other, and none are forbidden (II Nephi 26:28).