[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V41_03_00_Misc]
The Relief Soctety—A World-Wide Sisterhood Phyllis Hodgson Holbrook In every far-flung border land Where women work and pray And strive to solve the problems of A troubled world today, A new and everlasting hope Is borne to each who heeds; A wondrous plan. Transcends all time And solves our human needs; And then the hand of sisterhood Extends through time and space To carry love and help and faith Within its wide embrace. A universal sisterhood, Divinely shaped and planned, Installed on earth to function, by A mighty Prophet's hand; To glorify the dignity By labor and by worth Of womanhood and motherhood, And woman's place on earth. For, though she only shares the grace The Priesthood's gifts afford, A woman was the first to see The resurrected Lord! As brooklets spread the river's breadth, As rivers join the sea, So every land contributes to The great Society. The Cover: "The Singing Sands of Alamosa, Colorado, at the base of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains ' Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Pussywillows and Plum Blossoms Photograph by Don Knight Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Far I wish I could convey to each of you how much the Magazine means to our small group here. We are all growing from the messages and inspiration we receive when reading of our sisters in the Church and their activities. —Mayona Grinder Kindley Air Force Base Bermuda It is wonderful that you are making it possible for us to have the privilege of finding the names of our loved ones in The Relief Society Magazine. In looking through the birthday section of the Woman's Sphere department, I became so thrilled to see the name of a woman who was my nearest neighbor when we were children together. Now, I am wondering if she would get the same thrill as I did when she sees my name there. How lovely the contents of the December Magazine. —Mrs. Clara T. Samuels 449

West Broadmoor San Leandro, California What wonderful things I found in the October 1953 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. 'Portraits of the Signers of the Constitution of the United States" is one of the most interesting and educational articles I have read in a long time. I also enjoyed "The Boyhood of President McKay." All of the poems and stories were interesting, but I especially liked "Grandpa As a Magician" by Mable Law Atkinson. Sister Atkinson is a gifted, versatile writer. I always enjoy everything she writes. —Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah Please extend my congratulations to Lizabeth Wall Madsen for having written the beautiful lines ("Wings Over the West") which won the first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. There is not a line of Mrs. Madsen's poem that lacks poetic essence in my estimation. —Grace I. Frost Provo, Utah Page 148

May I say a few words concerning the joy and inspiration The Relief Society Magazine brings to all Latter-day Saint women who live in the mission fields— particularly those, who, like myself, find themselves living in places where organized Relief Societies do not exist. A note of thanks for the small, newly organized Sunday School we have here. —DMildred Garrett Enos Chillicothe, Ohio The Magazine continues to be excellent in every way. I have most thoroughly enjoyed Mrs. Morrell's articles on the life of President McKay (September, October, November, and December 1953). —DMabel Jones Gabbott Bountiful, Utah We think The Relief Society Magaziuc is the best magazine anywhere, and it ls getting better all the time. —Mrs. Margaret A. Anderson —and Mrs. Ione J. Anderson Richmond, Utah On the eve of our lesson tomorrow on David Copperfield, 1 am brimming with anticipation to hear Sister Mabel Preston give it, and I trust no member misses it, for Briant S. Jacobs has portrayed it as Dickens would smile his approval. When I had read the usual amount of the lessons, and turned the page and saw two full pages more, I said, "What a feast!" And I have really laughed and _ heartily approved every word. I trust no Relief Society woman fails to read it herself. 1 had forgotten much I had read years ago. I wish we could love the good qualities im people, all people, and not rebuke them for failures. Thanks, thanks, Brother Jacobs for making every line pregnant with needful truths. Certainly this lesson "talked itself alive." I wish it were in pamphlet form as I would like to pass it on to many as a gift to egg them on to a great writer. —Laura R. Merrill Logan, Utah

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Vol. 41 MARCH 1954 NO. 3

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40