[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Pickering]
Powell "What It Takes," by Kay Islaub "Second Best," by Blanche Sutherland "The Part-Time Heart," by Hannah Smith Notes TO THE FIELD Organizations and 'Reorganizations of Stake and MMlisston Relief Societies for 1953 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Butte Calgary Cannon Dallas Houston Klamath Layton North Pocatello North Tooele Salmon River Missions Brazilian Chinese East Central States East German French Great Lakes Japanese Mexican Spanish-American Tahiti Texas-Louisiana West Central States West German Page 172 Formerly Part of West Central States Mission Lethbridge and East Lethbridge Stakes Pioneer Stake 'Texas-Louisiana Mission Texas-Louisiana Mission Northern California Mission North Davis Stake Pocatello Stake Tooele Stake Lost River Stake Appointed President Date Appointed Gretta L. Karren Freda Kenney Mabel H. Miller Allene Bremer Sadie Ollorton Clark Mae Belle Nielson Oma E. Wilcox Bertha M. Pieper Leona P. Boyce Elizabeth G. Hoggan REORGANIZATIONS Released President Mary P. Howells Hazel M. Robertson Edna H. Matheson Lena W. Glaus Beth C. Woolf Ella C. Burton Ethel L. Mauss Kate B. Mecham Ivie Huish Jones Vilate B. Pearce Leone R. Bowring Reta F. Broadbent Luella W. Cannon Appointed President June 28, 1953 November 15, 1953 March 1, 1953 October 18, 1953 October 11, 1953. March 22, 1953 January 25, 1953 June 21, 1953 March 29, 1953 October 18, 1953 Date Appointed Lorene M. Sorensen Mission Closed, Transferred to San Francisco Stake Adriana M. Zappey Mary Ethel E. Gregory Rachael L. Lee Florence H. Richards Hazel M. Robertson Jennie S. R. Bowman Effie Nina N. Bowman Frankie G. Orton Phyllis D. Smith Marteal W. Hendricks Bernice O. Dyer October 6, 1953 December 31, 1952 October 8, 1953 October 20, 1953 June 27, 1953 June 11, 1953 September 10, 1953 June 18, 1953 December 4, 1953 February 6, 1953 November 20, 1953 November 19, 1953 October 29, 1953 NOTES TO THE FIELD Stakes Beaver Bonneville Cassia Cedar Chicago East Lethbridge Emigration Franklin Gooding Humboldt Hyrum Idaho Falls Kanab Layton Lethbridge Liberty Long Beach Mill Creek Monument Park North Carbon North Davis North Weber Parowan Pioneer Reno Snowflake South Idaho Falls South Sanpete Tooele Union Uvada Wasatch West Utah Yellowstone Young Zion Park Released President Phylis S. Warr Elna P. Haymond Ruth P. Holt Afton P. Parry Edith Y. Harris Fern R. Laycock Winniefred S. Manwaring Ined N. Fryer Geraldine Terry Rose Burner Mildred O. Norman Mabel J. Hansen Vera Deane Blackburn Oma E. Wilcox Amelia P. Johansen LaNola C. Driggs Nina L. Riley Florence N. Singleton Minnie E. Anderson Annie Parker Oma E. Wilcox Vera H. Sorensen Edna S. Hatch Vera Y. Allen Lena Oxborrow Ida S. Hendrickson Edna J. Kindred Leona F. Wintch Leona P. Boyce Nan A. Lindsay Mary A. Hansen Violet D. Olpin Rose Goates Elva O. Swensen Ida L. Allen Hilda Bringhurst Appointed President 173 Date Appointed Bernice Thompson Mary R. Young Rowena J. Warr Claire B. Jones Elizabeth Evans Kaiser (Disorganized ) Lucile G. Williams Matilda B. Gilbert JennaVee Hall Aliene N. Bloxham Rhoda Thorpe Nannah C. Stokes Elsie J. Brinkerhoff Faun L. Reynolds Fern R. Laycock Verna A. Hunter Lenore G. Merrill Mary M. Wright Reba O. Carling LaPreal Richards Lavora S. Wood Amanda B. Hancock Bertrude S. Mitchell Julia N. Barg Veda F. Moss Jessie S. Baldwin Ione J. Simpson Zella C. Christensen Rose L. Moscon Mal B. Oveson Martha H. Bleak Ruth Mae Witt Loleta W. Dixon Ida M. Swensen Helen M. Stock Margie D. Barber Nocturne Grace Barker Wilson A sudden silence always falls with dark Upon the desert where the daytime wind — Blows noisily through sagebrush and mesquite In a strange dissonance of music, stark. And urgent. Night comes down, soft-moccasined, And makes a muted harmony complete. April 19, 1953 July 6, 1953 September 6, 1953 May 10, 1953 September 6, 1953 November 15, 1953 May 3, 1953 August 16, 1953 September 20, 1953 July 19, 1953 August 9, 1953 August 16, 1953 February 22, 1953 August 9, 1953 November 15, 1953 May 10, 1953 May 3, 1953 April 12, 1953 August 8, 1953 August 30, 1953 January 25, 1953 February 23, 1953 May 3, 1953 March 1, 1953 August 17, 1953 March 15, 1953 May 17, 1953 July 12, 1953 March 29, 1953 July 26, 1953 July 2, 1953 February 22, 1953 May 31, 1953 June 28, 1953 July 12, 1953 January 11, 1953 Don Knight MAROON LAKE, NEAR ASPEN, COLORADO ie Sunrise on Cliff Mlountain Gertrude T. Kovan Between two mighty mountains An ancient cliff towers high. Its dim peaks and sharp edges, Reach far into the sky. When night comes, first ascending Long valleys far below, Sometimes the light still lingers, A faint, rose-colored glow. But oh! To watch Cliff Mountain In the bleak and early dawn As the first, faint tints of sunrise Break through mists of darkness gone! I watch this magic stirring Across each crevassed peak, And I know that higher than Cliff Mountain Are the answers that I seek. Page 174 Heritage Mildred Garrett Enos 66 AIL, Mommie." Kathie's NY school record again, Mommie?" blond braids gleamed as she asked. "The one Where the She laid the Packet of teacher has school?" mail on the table. "Again? Oh, dear, Kathie!" And ooking down, Beth Saw a yelthen she reconsidered, "A]] tight, low envelope Protruding from unlove, al] the Way through two throat was dry. Mind. Qj] paintings and Piles of _ At first disbelief, then relief and silver. She looked at the worn Joy filled her being. Wooden paddle that had been in _ "Kathie!" she swept her daughter hey Own family for years. And some tle dance, knocking the butter padlow butter vigorously, g thoughtful dle to the floor. And then, because €XPression on her face, the words were joyful to her tongue, Later, with Kathie out to Play and She repeated, "Margaret Marie is the baby down for a nap, Beth that Only grandmas and grandpas the middle of the floor. WeTe€ Occasions of such Joy. Family heirlooms! She began to Beth kissed her again, laughing. — sort them. A quilt that it was ry. 0, pet, she isn't anyone's grandmoreq had been Grandmother Wilma." And then she sobered. "She's son's pride and Joy. The only pretjust about the most wonderfy] ty thing in her bare little home. Friend I've ever had. She lives in Beth sighed. It was certainly worn a Country called England Way across to tatters Now, as were the yellowed the ocean in a great wonderful baby clothes. There was a frail house just filled with oil paintings book of poems, a cracked, white and piles of silyer that have been crockery tureen. Truly, the west. Kathie brightened. School was a Great-Grandmother Curtis' voice warm subject to her. "Can J Play came back to her.. 176 "And there I was with my mothers china that I had managed to bring all the way across the ocean with me. And Fred said it was either the china, or the box of seeds and cuttings couldn't go West, so I gave the china to a neighbor that had been right kind to us. She gave me a side of bacon and a bag of white pea seed for it." Side bacon and white pea seed! Beth felt like crying as she dumped the stuff back into the trunk. HE had devised a plan of sorts by the time Kirby came home for lunch, and so intent was she on it that she missed her usual pleasure in his comforting masculine presence. "Margaret Marie is coming for a visit, Kirby," she told him as he kissed her. His eyes lighted with pleasure. "No! When?" "Day after tomorrow." "How did she manage?" he asked with interest. "Fixchange teacher," Beth replied. "She's simply thrilled. Says she can visit five days before she'll have to assume her duties." "That's fine," Kirby said. "Give you girls time to catch up on the six years since you were an exchange student in England." He grinned. "After all, since then you've acquired a husband, a fiveyear-old daughter, a son with a defnite will of his own, and a rundown, poorly stocked ranch, with a view!" They both glanced toward the west wall of the dining room. Through the wide expanse of the newly installed window, the two peaks of Twin Knolls Mountain rose in silent majesty in the distance. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 But somehow it didn't look quite as wonderful to Beth as it had just yesterday. Instead, she noted with dissatisfaction the old - fashioned round dining table set for lunch with the plain white plates and the dime-store silver. Only it wasn't silver. Not even the plated kind. Just plain, stainless steel. A picture of the dining room in Margaret Marie's house rose in her mind. Wide-beamed ceiling, polished sideboard, gleaming silver. She took a deep breath for courage and asked urgently, "Kirby, remember the sterling pattern we selected the week of our honeymoon?" "Sure do," he replied. He lifted a lid on the pot. "What's for lunch?" Beth swallowed with difficulty. She had a wild urge to dump the pot, bottom up, over his head. "Do you suppose," she asked in an even voice, "we could afford to start us a set now?" At the look on his face she added rapidly, "Just the most basic pieces, Kirby, knives and forks and spoons!" He sensed the urgency in her voice and looked at her sharply. "Beth," he said gently as he slipped an arm around her waist. She felt his regret even before he finished. "The big window and the drapes just about did it for us till we harvest again next year." Something in her heart refused defeat. "Are we always that broke?"' she asked in bitter rebellion, and hated herself for the hurt in his eyes. "Yes," he answered briefly. BETH swallowed again. "There are other ways," she said desperately, "monthly payments are available on items of that sort!" HERITAGE "We're just getting started, Beth," he replied quietly. "There are so many things. The children to provide for, stock to feed, payments on the truck." She turned away in defeat. But the hurt and the desire stayed with her all afternoon, and the next day. As she moved about her self imposed tasks, she kept seeing the house through Margaret's eyes as she waxed and polished and_ baked. And, added to that, was the burden of her coolness to Kirby. He offered to drive her to the train two hours early next day. "Give you time to shop for any extras you might need in the way of food," he said. Beth was grateful but unappeased. He's trying to make it up to me, She thought sadly, but he just doesn't understand! In front of the grocery he opened the door for her. "I'll ride the children while you shop," he said, "pick you up in plenty of time." "All right, Kirby," she said. Next door to the grocery was a jewelry store. In spite of herself, Beth's eyes turned to the window as she passed. A display of silver, shiningly beautiful, met her gaze. It won't hurt just to look, she told herself desperately, and a moment later she stood before the long glass case. "Isn't it beautiful?" the woman clerk asked, smiling at her. "Yes," Beth replied. She wet her lips. "Could I see that pattern please?" The clerk laid it before her. The knives and forks, the iced beverage spoons, the salad forks, and serving pieces. A dazzling assortment. 177 Beth looked at the pieces hungtily, like a child with her nose to a window, she thought. "It's so easy to own," the clerk encouraged, "nine or ten dollars a month is all." Beth hesitated. "I'm not sure my husband would approve," she stammered. "Some women even manage out of their grocery allowance," the woman said, watching her. Beth looked at the pieces again. Nine or ten dollars a month, she thought. Could I manage it? And then she went cold with horror. What am I considering? She thought frantically. She dropped the piece she was holding. "My husband and I have to approve these things together,' she said firmly, and, turning, she fled. HE house has never looked so sad and neglected, Beth thought as they reached home. Odd that she had been able to see so many possibilities in the place when she and Kirby had first looked at it. The first flush of young love, she thought, with the back of her mind as she took Margaret Marie's wraps. "Kirby will bring your bags," she said, "and you can clean up. In the meantime I'll fix us a tray. I know you must be starved!" "Oh, Mommie!" Kathie cried, "I want Margaret Marie to listen to my school record!" "Later, Kathie," Beth said, and escaped to the kitchen. She did a beautiful job with the tray. Embroidered napkins, hot buns, and a pat of butter, whiteclover honey, and slices of cheese, a large bowl of fruit. At least the food is bountiful, she thought. 178 Vaguely she heard the record player start playing Kathie's school record. She picked up the finished tray and started for the dining room. At the door she stopped. Margaret Marie was standing in front of the new window looking outward. The valley stretched away westward in a panorama of contrast. Harvested fields, a grazing flock of sheep, rolling orchard slopes, and the tall spire of the ward church reaching upward toward the infinite. And the whole overshadowed by the towering mountain peaks. In the background Kathie's record reached the second half: "And now, children," said the recorded voice, "we will all stand and sing." And the childish voices began the song that is the special property of every country-loving American. "... Oh, beautiful for spacious RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 skies, for amber waves of grain, for purple mountain majesties above the fruited plain." And there it was before Beth's stinging eyes, the heritage her people had left her! She bowed her head. "Forgive me," she whispered, "forgive me! I forgot that a heritage isn't always inside the house!" The door opened and Kirby came in. Across the room his eyes met Beth's. She looked back until the look became one of their very special ones. And her heart relaxed. There would never have to be further words, or explanations. She moved forward again as the song ended, and Margaret Marie turned from the window, her own eyes filled with tears. "My dear, my dear!" she said. And reaching out she took the heavily laden tray from Beth's proud hands. 'Sor (Which the Sirst Was lade: Christie Lund Coles The fruit-fair flesh nature had clothed her in, Delicate as glass, supple to the touch, Has wrinkled with the years, grown parchment thin, And withered as an apple dried too much. Her step so laughter-quick, her hand so firm, Are slowed and weakened by the rushing tide Of years that moved and passed, serving their term " Leaving her with the age her heart denied, And her eyes, too, that kept light from flame Of what she was once, beautiful and young. Though now, more than before, they speak a part Of her too long, too thoughtlessly unsung. Now, when vanity and youth's mask are gone, We see her spirit's proud, clear echelon. Velma Mackay Pau] OME NE " Said that tp Wooden Pegs. They ult huge metican quilt can be CUutdoor oven, Or baking ang in ~ their ingt Ame mean lif,: t ia; fireplaces tone and mud ee ation * — ae They built heir agons and f e —" € Sleds 4nd made ¢ r harnesses from ligioush. — me " Socially, ye. The leat animals, They not Before ar tis des Fis found $™Y made crying ns iy its place = § = they use "verything they made, Itse]f Was a n Cessity Necessity ia "re hh + were "stablished alway has } the m her of me © men clear d the farm lands of vention. OF centuries he Cople sme d lanier nd "the Of the Cold co Ntries of Siberia, na Pranted their "TOPs. Manc ita, Nig thern bet, and The men d 6 'rom their ala Other lands 0 Similar Climate Wore 'and clay and Padded Clothir § for Warmth Wool from the anima] ween layers Into Clothing n this primitive All thj quilting, developed IS—and families too!