[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Chloe | Author: Designs]
[Chloe Call Laker Makes Her Own Quilt Designs]
Chloe  Call  Later,  Rigby,  Idaho,  who  recently  celebrated  her  sixty-fourth  birthday, 
has  designed  many  silk  quilts  and  other  articles  of  exquisite  handwork.  She  is  an 
artist  in  free-hand  design,  and  no  two  of  her  quilts  are  alike.  Her  patterns  range  from 
lovable  bunnies  to  a  "proposal  under  a  weeping  willow  tree."  This  love  of  artistic 
expression  began  when  Mrs.  Later  was  a  girl  in  Primary,  when  she  pieced  blocks  to 
make  a  quilt  top  and  presented  the  finished  article  to  a  needy  family  in  the  ward.  Her 
first  baby  quilt,  or  carriage  robe,  was  made  in  1928  for  her  first  grandchild.  Since  that 
date  she  has  designed  and  made  over  two  hundred  silk  quilts.  She  has  also  assisted  in 
making  hundreds  of  quilts  in  Relief  Society  and  has  directed  the  making  of  many 
other  quilts.  A  soft,  golden  silk  quilt  is  now  being  completed  by  Mrs.  Later  in  an- 
ticipation of  the  graduation  of  one  of  her  granddaughters.  Each  of  her  children,  and 
every  married  grandchild  has,  to  this  date,  received  one  of  her  lovely  silk  quilts.  Mrs. 
Later's  talents  and  industry  also  extend  to  many  other  types  of  handwork,  including 
crocheting,  embroidery,  and  the  making  of  exquisite  bags  and  greeting  cards. 
Mrs.  Later  has  served  in  all  of  the  Church  auxiliary  organizations,  except  the 
Sunday  School.  Her  Relief  Society  activities  have  been  extensive,  including  eight 
years  as  work  director  for  Rigby  Stake  Relief  Society,  five  years  as  president  in  Bremer- 
ton, Washington,  ten  years  as  a  member  of  the  sewing  committee  in  Rigby  Second 
Ward,  and  thirty-six  years  as  a  visiting  teacher.  Mrs.  Later  is  mother  to  nine  chil- 
dren, grandmother  to  eighteen,  and  great-grandmother  to  two.  She  also  does  gen- 
ealogy work  and  sings  in  the  ward  and  stake  choirs. 
e ommunication 
Dora  Toone  Brough 
Prayer  is  a  key  God  gave  to  us 
Whereby  we  might  commune  with  him; 
To  seek  for  wisdom,  peace,  and  truth. 
And  keep  faith's  light  from  growing  dim. 
Page   192

Willard  Luce 
Jt   (bunnen    Viyindow   (garden 
Ceiia  Luce 
jV/fORE  and  more  new  homes  are  being  built  with  basement  rumpus  or  recreation 
-^  ■*■  rooms.  But,  unless  the  house  is  built  into  the  hillside,  the  basement  windows 
are  usually  tiny  and  in  the  basement  wall,  with  the  natural  lighting  having  all  the 
charm  of  a  first-class  dungeon.  If  the  house  is  built  to  provide  for  large  basement 
windows,  it  looks  like  a  house  on  stilts.