[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: [Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Unknown | Title: V41_03_00_CONTENTS]]
ly the  contents  of  the  December  Maga- 
zine. 
— Mrs.  Clara  T.  Samuels 
449  West  Broadmoor 
San  Leandro,  California 
What  wonderful  things  I  found  in  the 
October  1953  issue  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  "Portraits  of  the  Signers  of  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States"  is  one 
of  the  most  interesting  and  educational 
articles  I  have  read  in  a  long  time.  I  also 
enjoyed  "The  Boyhood  of  President 
McKay."  All  of  the  poems  and  stories 
were  interesting,  but  I  especially  liked 
"Grandpa  As  a  Magician"  by  Mable  Law 
Atkinson,  Sister  Atkinson  is  a  gifted,  ver- 
satile writer.  I  always  enjoy  everything 
she  writes. 
— Sylvia  Probst  Young 
Midvale,  Utah 
Please  extend  my  congratulations  to 
Lizabeth  Wall  Madsen  for  having  written 
the  beautiful  lines  ("Wings  Over  the 
West")  which  won  the  first  prize  in  the 
Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest.  There  is 
not  a  line  of  Mrs.  Madsen's  poem  that 
lacks  poetic  essence  in  my  estimation. 
— Grace  I.  Frost 
Provo,  Utah 
May  I  say  a  few  words  concerning  the 
joy  and  inspiration  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  brings  to  all  Latter-day  Saint 
women  who  live  in  the  mission  fields — 
particularly  those,  who,  like  myself,  find 
themselves  living  in  places  where  organ- 
ized Relief  Societies  do  not  exist.  A  note 
of  thanks  for  the  small,  newly  organized 
Sunday  School  we  have  here. 
— Mildred  Garrett  Enos 
Chillicothe,  Ohio 
The  Magazine  continues  to  be  excellent 
in  every  way.  I  have  most  thoroughly  en- 
joyed Mrs.  Morrell's  articles  on  the  life  of 
President  McKay  (September,  October, 
November,  and  December  1953). 
— Mabel  Jones  Gabbott 
Bountiful,  Utah 
We  think  The  Relief  Society  Magn/jnc 
is  the  best  magazine  anywhere,  and  it  is 
getting  better  all  the  time. 
— Mrs.  Margaret  A.  Anderson 
— and  Mrs.  lone  J.  Anderson 
Richmond,  Utah 
On  the  eve  of  our  lesson  tomorrow  on 
David  CoppeiReld,  I  am  brimming  with 
anticipation  to  hear  Sister  Mabel  Preston 
give  it,  and  I  trust  no  member  misses  it. 
for  Briant  S.  Jacobs  has  portrayed  it  as 
Dickens  would  smile  his  approval.  When 
I  had  read  the  usual  amount  of  the  les- 
sons, and  turned  the  page  and  saw  two 
full  pages  more,  I  said,  "What  a  feast!" 
And  I  have  really  laughed  and  heartily 
approved  every  word.  I  trust  no  Relief 
Society  woman  fails  to  read  it  herself.  I 
had  forgotten  much  I  had  read  years  ago. 
I  wish  we  could  love  the  good  qualities  in 
people,  all  people,  and  not  rebuke  them 
for  failures.  Thanks,  thanks.  Brother 
Jacobs  for  making  every  line  pregnant  with 
needful  truths.  Certainly  this  lesson 
"talked  itself  alive."  I  wish  it  were  in 
pamphlet  form  as  I  would  like  to  pass  it 
on  to  many  as  a  gift  to  egg  them  on  to 
a  great  writer. 
— Laura  R.  Merrill 
Logan.  Utah 
Page  148