[Vol41 | March 1954 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Enos]
[A Golden Thread by Mildred Garrett Enos]

Viburnum burkPage 159 SHRUBS FOR YOUR GARDEN woodi can't wait for the leaves to show up, but puts out a dazzling beautiful waxy flower that wafts its fragrance over the newly awakened garden. Then the forsythias — several varieties, come along, bowing their wands of yellow bloom to all. Cydonia japonica, with its brilliant orange to red blooms, seems to be the signal for all the spring flowering shrubs to put on their show, for then the real display in shrubdom begins. Spireas, Viburnum carlesi, Viburnum tomentosum, and other viburnums, flowering almonds, Prunus triloba, honeysuckle, weigelas, burst into an extravagant display. Then come the lilacs. What miracles of beauty, of color, of fragrance are these! The old common lavender and white, the elegant new French varieties, or those Persian beauties with their soft plumes of lavender flowers—all are an asset in the shrub border. Then a lull comes, and the exquisite beauty of the mock orange enhances the scene—it seems to have waited purposely till now to show its perfect beauty. As a lower-growing companion, its white flowers covering every stem, we see Deutzia gracilis—perfect for the front of the border. Hypericum — St.-John's-wort, a low-growing shrub, is an excellent ground cover, is welcome in every garden, for it blooms from early summer until hard frost. With the summer, Spirea Anthony Waterer, Potentilla fruiticosa, the altheas, Vitex agnuscastus, CaryOpposite Page: privacy into a small garden or to divide the garden into rooms. Frame the home or to frame a lovely view. Photograph, courtesy the Deseret News Courtesy the Deseret News FORSYTHIA (SPRING GLORY) Gives an excellent display every spring (yellow flowers). Opteris incana, the hydrangeas, the faithful smoke tree, and tamarix, will bring another riot of color. PALL and its accompanying frosts make us conscious of those shrubs which hold their leaves a bit longer than does the average shrub, and conscious, too, of colorful leaves. The privets can be depended on to hold their leaves well into the bitter cold weather. Cotoneaster, most of the varieties of euonymus, beauty bush, viburnums, snowberry, and pyracantha will hold their leaves well, some of them until December. Now come colorful berries and foliage—these are extra beauty dividends and gardeners accept them with gratitude. Euonymus altaus compactus has foliage of an unbeDeciduous shrubs, evergreens, and other trees used to bring Trees may be used to 162 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 Courtesy the Deseret News HARMONIOUS ARRANGEMENT OF SHRUBS Juniper at the entrance; trimmed snowberry bushes; pyracantha bushes at the corner, giving height where it is needed. Lievable brilliance. It is of a comwonder what to use for winter color. Pact growth and will grow in semiWe can depend on dogwood, the shade. Red-twigged and the yellow twigged varieties, to bring life and color to the sleeping garden. 'There are some willows that have a yellow bark and will add color to the winter lJandscape. Kerria japonica shows stems of bright green — the forsythias Berried shrubs — they are an open invitation to the birds to stay with us a bit longer — promise luscious feasts for a long time. Snowberry, pyracanthas, honeysuckles, cotoneasters, Berberis euonymus, maho-;:., show stems of a deep brownish purnias, and some of the viburnums will ple produce a crop of berries. For ease of upkeep, for sheer Now it is winter, and we have _ beauty, and little cost, nothing can almost completed our cycle, and we — surpass a garden of shrubs. Their Pictures Mary C. Martineau yea., ae nia didn't have "Nonsense," said Virgina. O be sure Virgi soft brown eyes with a mourn 7., ful expression in them, neither How do you like the frame, Madam? Asked the canvasser humbdid she have brown hair parted dea D5:; Wy. "Great care was used in the nally brou ht it after sh y b © we he went on, 4S if divulging soft rosy © lips, and het dress—oh, 1 was a gold piece: She handed the money masterpiece! Jt was just perfec to the canvasset, who packed away mahogany D cashmere with from the picture and from the doot reverses turned back, revealing 4 ima mos polite manner. Hurrie y; deepet brown put exquisitely matchhe got into fis buggy, which con nough enlarged pictures or ing satin front, which was gathered tained & i satin © hoker" the whole countryside, the picture; § e d Jeased, but sn& said, "Why didn't whose little boy the artist ake my hat almost 10 the rivet; ¢ pictur of Mrs. De lack and glossy; and why aret t my pert's mother sitting On 4 straight eyes just 4 rk and not se docile? Chat The pictured ady had 4 [ve a good notion not to take i most somber face, double chin, at all." and a striped dress. He also had 4 The canvasset bent his head sadpicture of Grandpa ly and said in a most contrite man Civil Wat uniform, when he was ner, Its hard to te ember every' young, and he ai a picture a [ thought Marthy Jenkins oldest daughter, \ of you eth have imagine that graph, must nav" - a the en and so On. He was n 4 hurry to et them all delivered, realizing how d [am sure lucky he was to have the ten dollars ocket, but he would our beauty be luckier '¢ the other patrons s them look that way to would accept theirs and pay UP: Page 163 164 FTER he was gone, Virginia turned to her boys, who had said nothing, and asked, "What do you think of it?" The youngest one said, "It's awful pretty, Ma, and almost like you,' but the oldest one said, "I think your photograph is the prettiest, Ma. Did you get your photograph back?" Virginia thought he was right in some ways, but the photograph was only black and white, and her picture on it was only one of a family group, and she thought it quite marvelous that it had been singled out as promised and made into a large, colored picture all framed and ready to hang on the wall. She said, "Yes, Son, here is the photograph. He gave it back just as he promised, and, while the picture isn't all it should be, yet I promised to take it, so we'll hang it up and make the best of it." Virginia liked to look at her picture. The hair was so smooth, just the way she always combed hers in the morning, but never had a chance to look at again all day, except as she happened to glance in the mirror above the wash-bench as She washed and combed the children's hair for dinner. As she looked at the picture again, she liked, too, the looks of the soulful brown eyes and wished she knew the secret that lay behind them, for her own eyes laughed when she was happy, and they snapped when she was angry. Why couldn't her eyes be always sweet and appealing like the ones in the picture, though of course not so dull looking. When John came in to supper, the picture was the first thing that caught his eye. He stopped short RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 in the doorway. "Well, by the continental," he said, taking his old white felt hat off and rubbing his hand through his hair, "where in thunder did that come from?" "Don't you like it, John?" asked Virginia. "It doesn't look a confounded thing like you, Virginia. I think you got bit that time." Then, noticing the snap in her eyes, for she never could stand to have anyone think that she was green enough to get bit, he said, with his own eyes twinkling, "Now, you know your eyes have some life and sparkle in them, but the eyes in that picture look like a dying calf's." Now Virginia was smiling and so were her eyes. John came forward, hung his hat on a nail behind the door, poured some water from the bucket on the washstand into the tin washbasin and proceeded to wash his face and hands before taking his place at the table with his family. Supper began in the usual manner by his asking the blessing, and, afterwards, Virginia glanced up for just an instant at the sad brown eyes in the picture, smiling to herself and wo