[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | October | Issue: 3 | Title: A UNIQUE GATHERING. | Author: Unknown]

A UNIQUE GATHERING.
	Mrs. Andrew J. Stewart, Jr., entertained
in honor of her mother, Mrs. Jane Riggs,’
80th birthday fifteen of Provo’s leading
society ladies of forty years ago. They all
crossed the plains with ox teams, have been
acquainted and all lived here 40 years. All
are widows except two; their combined ages
1129 years. The ladies present were: Mrs.
Jane Riggs, aged 89; Mrs. Eggertsen, aged
83; Mrs. Emmeline Miller. aged 81; Mrs.
Marinda Glazier, aged 78; Mrs. Marilla Dan-
iels, aged 78; Mrs, Lucinda Southworth,
aged 77; Mrs. Electa Bullock, aged 74, Mrs.
Flora Maiben, aged 78; Mrs. Sarah L. Turn-
er, aged 73; Mrs. Anna Peay, aged 71; Mrs.
Martha Bullock, aged 70; Mrs. Emma Bul-
lock, aged 68; Mrs. Anna Nelson, aged 68
Mrs. Martha A. Harris. aged 67. A delicious
luncheon was served. Mrs. Electa Bullock
read several birthday poems in her usual
beautiful way. and Mrs. Hannah Clark sang
“The Two Martyrs,” which was greatly
appreciated.					E. W. B.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		GRANITE STAKE.
	Granite Stake Relief Society conference
convened at the Stake Tabernacle, Septem-
ber 15, 1908, at 10 a. m., President Emma
S. Woodruff presiding.
	Sisters Rebecca Nibley and Minnie H.
James of the General Board were present.
Reports from a number of local presidents
showed an inerease of enthusiasm in all
branches of R. S. work.
	Sisters Nibley and James then addressed
the conference on various subjects and ad-
monished the sisters to continue faithful
to the Relief Society and the great work of
the Lord.
	The afternoon session was devoted to the
life of “Daniel H. Wells” and the program
was rendered by members of his family.

[Column 2]
	Biographical sketch of his life was read
by Elder Joseph S. Wells.
	Poems relating to incidents in his life were
read by Victor P. Wells, Annette Wells
Culmer, and Annie Wells Cannon. Piano
solo by Sister Grace Grant. Reminiscences
were given by Sisters Lydia A., Hannah C.
and Emmeline B. Wells, of the great and
noble life of him who was ever true to his
country, his conscience, his brethren, his
religion and his God.
	The musical exercises were especially
good and the Stake Relief Society choir did
some good work.
	A banquet was held between meetings,
and a good time was enjoyed by all who
were present.
			LUCY M. GEREN,
				Assistant Secretary.
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Nebo Stake held at Santaquin, Utah, March
20, 1908. Conference convened at 10 a. m.,
Eliza J. Dixon presiding.
	After opening exercises, Sister Teitjen,
president of Santaquin ward made a few
opening remarks and reported her ward. Sis-
ter Cappel, one of the stake board gave
some good instruction and encouragement
to the Relief Society sisters.
	Sister Forcey, president of Mammoth
ward, reported all in good condition. Sis-
ter Price reported Goshen ward. Sister
Brown reported Eureka ward. Sister Moore,
president of Spring Lake, reported that ward.
	The choir sang “Peace, be still.”
	Sister Brown of the stake board spoke of
the training of our children to have pure
thoughts and pure acts, “We should al-
ways tell our children the truth, and never
tell them anything we don’t mean. All the
women in the Church, should belong to the
Relief Society or the Y. L. M. I. A., and
should teach their children to pray when
they are very young. Spoke of the feeling
among our people; said the mission of
motherhood on earth, is to multiply and
replenish the earth; also spoke on the
power of prayer and related some instances
in the Book of Mormon on that subject,
Sister Evans of the stake board gave an ex-
ercise from the little book entitled “A
Swarm of Bees,” and some very beautiful
thoughts were brought out.
	Afternoon session, President Eliza J. Dix-
on presiding.
	After singing and prayer, Sister Town-
send read a notice from the general board
concerning the nurses’ class under the
auspices of the Relief Society. Song by
Leona Boyle, entitled, “My heart’s tonight
in Tennessee.” Sister Mary P. Harding
gave an exercise on parents’ class work,
subject “Physical punishment of children.”
	Sister Cappel spoke on the spiritual du-
ities of parents to their children, also on the
word of wisdom, and the necessity of our
keeping it as a people and the blessings that
are promised by so doing.
	Quartette by members of choir entitled
“Drifting with the tide.”
	Sister Hawkins spoke on the labor of the
Relief Society and the necessity of our
young people being trained in the Gospel.
Bishop Holiday made some very timely re-
marks. Sister Dixon spoke on our duties
in the Church. Brother Roberts testified of
the Spirit of the Lord being with us on this
occasion, also of the necessity of nurses.
	Closed by singing, and benediction by
President Lemon.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor Sec.


