Vol. II JULY, 1915 No. 7 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Summer Health Number ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY CHARLTON'S Exclusive and correct styles in at reasonable Prices Women's Wear. Suits in Newest Cloth and Silk Materials, Latest GOODWIN CORSETS Modes in Gowns and Blouses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent. on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction Two Books that Every L. D. S. Family Should Have The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25 postpaid. Family Record of Temple Work The Thomas for the Dead. $1.25 and upward. Write for Sample Pages, Free Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Deseret News Book Store PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assistant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A. SALT LAKE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS — July 1915

Pore Old Dad — Unknown 299
Augusta Joyce Crocheron — Emmeline B. Wells 301
Research 303
Her Vacation — Sophy Valentine 304
"The Bridegroom Cometh" — L. Lula Greene Richards 311
Home Department — Janette A. Hyde 312
Nursing in the Relief Society 316
Clothing for Women 320
Current Topics — James H. Anderson 322
In the Kitchen Laboratory — Hazel L. Dunford 325
Good Health — Maud Baggarley 327
The Prince of Ur 329
Homespun 329
Editorial: Destruction Upon the Waters 336
Guide Lessons 338

ADVERTISERS’ DIRECTORY

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah
AMERICAN THEATER
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City
CUTLER'S, 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main & 260 State St., Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
MARIAN BANKS, Millinery
CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 242 South Main, Salt Lake City
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main St., Salt Lake City
MUTUAL CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake City
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
PORTER-WALTON CO., Seedmen, Nurserymen & Florists, Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City
S. M. TAYLOR & CO., Undertakers, 251–259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City
THOMAS, Photographer
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City
 PORE OLD DAD. Unknown. Ye kin scarce pick up a paper, And its poets' corners greet, 'Cept ye'll see er pirty poem 'Bout the Mother, saintly sweet. But you'll have a time a searchin', Eyes will be achin' bad Ere you'll ever find a poem At this time, for pore old Dad. No, it isn't willful in 'em, Them that write of Mother dear; That there's never notice taken Of her old man sittin' near. No, it's never meant to slight him, But it looks a little sad, All the bouquets made for Mother, Not a bloom for pore old Dad. True, our Mother watched above us 'Till her dear old eyes would ache; But old Dad he humped to feed us 'Till his back would nearly break. Mother crooned above the cradle, Gave devotion, all she had; Still there wasn't any circus, At this time for pore old Dad. Now don't take one line from Mother, When you write the Soul's Sweet Song But if there's a word for Father, Now and then, it won't be wrong. Poor old soul, he's bent and wrinkled, And I know 'twould make him glad — If, while your praisin' Mother, Something's said of pore old Dad. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. JULY, 1915. No. 7. Augusta Joyce Crocheron. (A Tribute.) By Emmeline B. Wells. With many sighs and fond memories, I turn back the pages, one by one, of my beloved volumes of the Exponent, and over and over again I read therein the name of the dear departed friend — Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Poems, essays, sketches, minutes, reports, all telling of her versatility as a writer, and at the same time telling something too, of her striking yet tender personality. Like all really interesting women, Mrs. Crocheron had a history. While her life's narrative might seem one long series of sorrows, disappointments and adventure, still she was not always in the shadows, and when the sunshine penetrated the clouds around her, then her soul pealed forth in song and praise. Mrs. Crocheron's great grandmother, on the maternal side, was an Indian princess, the daughter of a Penobscot chief, and her grandfather in the same line was a sea captain. Such progenitors would naturally bequeath as a heritage something of their genius as well as characteristics, and those who best knew Mrs. Crocheron might thus easily account for her love of nature, romance and color, her rather restless disposition, her great desire for attainment and her deep melancholy when dreams could not be realized. She was deeply blessed with an abiding faith which helped her over many stony places in life's path, while her unfailing friendship was a gift to be forever cherished. Mrs. Crocheron was born in Boston in 1844. A year so memorable to the Latter-day Saints, because it marks the martyrdom of their Prophet and Patriarch. When she was scarcely six months old her parents with sixteen other families started on that long but remarkable journey from Boston to California, around Cape Horn, on the good ship Brooklyn. Many times it seemed as though the ship could not withstand the elements, and would 302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. surely founder, but the Saints aboard never despaired and their great faith gave confidence and assurance to the captain and the crew. The journey was completed at the end of six months, and the weary pilgrims again set foot on land. These New England Saints were repeating history, having left the shores of Plymouth, where their ancestors had sought and found a refuge for religious liberty, and these landed on the other side of the continent for the same purpose — to worship God as their conscience dictated. California was then Mexican territory and the war with Mexico was at its height. It naturally follows that the settlers saw and encountered some of the dangers and adventures war brings. Besides, there were the hardships and struggles of pioneer life, all testing to the utmost the fortitude, endurance, courage and faith of men and women, and these adventurous souls like other Latter-day Saints were not found wanting. In those days California was not the beautiful garden state that she is today, but rugged, barren and dreary, where the endless vista of the sea and the splashing of its waves but enhanced the loneliness. For twenty years the Joyce family remained in California, detained because of family affairs, but during that time the mother and daughters performed splendid service for the Church, and their beautiful home in San Bernardino was the symbol of hospitality, to "Mormon" missionaries and their friends. Later when the family moved to Utah they were warmly greeted by many friends who remembered their generosity and kindness in the early California days. Mrs. Crocheron's mother possessed a very strong personality and was a woman of some gifts of accomplishment and education. It naturally follows that as far as possible she would bestow the same talents upon her daughter^. Considering the circumstances of pioneer life, the advantages she gave her family were quite remarkable. Mrs. Crocheron's three books which she published under some difficulties will always be valuable and useful to the Latter-day Saint women. This is especially true of the volume entitled, "Representative Women of Deseret," a book of short biographies of some of our most distinguished "Mormon" women, written almost entirely under the direction of the women themselves. This fact renders the book a useful work of reference. "Wild Flowers of Deseret" is a collection of her poems, but having been published long ago does not contain nearly all that she has written nor by any means her best. The third book, "The Children's Book." shows the love of her mother heart and her desire to please the little ones of whom she was especially fond. Mrs. Crocheron had nearly completed a work for which, as a literary attainment, she had great hopes. It was the story of the "Book of Mormon" told in verse, and she had a great desire to RESEARCH. 303 live to complete this work. That her death prevented this attainment, is only one of the many disappointments she met with marvelous courage. It was said by one of Sister Crocheron's friends, "Augusta Crocheron seemed to me to always have the wrong setting, so refined, so gentle, so desirous of everything beautiful, and yet denied them all." It might appear this way to many who knew and loved her, and yet she was a woman who had such a depth of feeling that she found happiness and wealth, where others could not comprehend. Her love for flowers was almost a passion, and wherever she lived her dooryard was resplendent in color. She found perhaps her greatest pleasure in reading, and books were not denied her. In the perusal of their pages she forgot her woes, and spent many happy hours. She loved nature and enjoyed solitude, for there she found the inspiration which called forth the songs of her heart in poetic verse. It seems to me that I have always known and always held dear, Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Perhaps our spirits knew each other before this dispensation. Hers was a spirit finely tempered and tuned for the artistic and poetic things of life. It is some comfort to believe that the severe refining she received in life's furnace, Kingdom. better prepared her for a glorious setting in our Father's RESEARCH. "What constitutes 'Society'?" inquired the Man from Mars; "Is it a gathering of wealth and intellectual stars?" "Ho, ho!" replied the rustic youth who wore a grin serene, "Society's our Mayday dance upon the village green." "Not so," the housemaid gayly said. "That isn't it at all. To find society you should attend the coachmen's ball." The serious woman said, "If for society you search You'll find the very best there is coming to my church." The studious one remarked, "The very highest social force You may discover if you will attend our lecture course." And some said that society was made for games of chance. And others mentioned art and brains and beauty and the dance. The Man from Mars looked puzzled and remarked, "It seems to me Society is all mankind, including even me; And each of us looks just beyond his own familiar sphere; The impulse is what made me leave my home and come down here. Society's a picture which we fill wiith fa\s and elves And, when we meet them, find that they are persons like ourselves." Her Vocation. By Sophy Valentine. Helen Andrews had unexpectedly fallen heir to a small fortune. She was no longer young, having passed her forty-fifth birthday, and the buoyancy of youth had gone. It was with rather a wistful expression she sat that first evening, after the news of her good fortune had reached her, contemplating her altered prospects. Having been cashier for years in a modest establishment, with a small salary, and accustomed to nipping her every desire in the early budding, she could hardly now adjust herself to this new position of affluence. "What the first withover. shall I do was astonishment all the money?" she wondered, after "Oh, if it had only come twenty years ago, when I might have enjoyed it to the fullest extent; when my whole being hungered for something worth while; for love, for light, for beautiful things; when I was ambitious; when it might have helped me to fulfil my life's greatest desires. Now it's too late to do much, if any, good. All I need now, I guess, is a shroud and a decent burial place, but as I have already insured for three hundred dollars, I could get that without this money." She heaved a deep sigh. "Ah, if it had only come twenty years ago. It might have helped me get the education I hungered for, the place in society I craved, with all my heart — it might even have helped me get a husband; who knows? There are men like that, pretty good men, too, as men go. I might now have been a happy wife and mother, instead of a sour old maid. But pshaw, come to think of it, I might have had a husband without the money. There was one, two — yes, there were three that I could have married, had T wanted to. There was Clarence, for instance, very handsome, but such a miserable good-for-nothing, as very handsome men are so often apt to be. Then there was Paul: good, honest Paul, but so woefully uneducated; almost ignorant. No, I never could have endured that. Then, of course, there was the widower with four children, he was both good-looking, and somewhat educated; but there were the children, I was afraid of them. Afraid I couldn't do justice to them. Was that really the reason? That's what T told him. but — yes, T think it was really selfishness, it was too much trouble. Dear me, T might have done worse. I might have earned the blessing of these children's gratitude." She sighed again. "No, it's useless to mourn over lost opportunities: the question HER VACATION. 305 is, what shall I do with this money? Perhaps I would better give it to poor, struggling cousin Ralph, but no, he said, only the other day, that money would make him miserable, and I guess it would, it has made me. I might give it to some charitable institution build a modest home for old friendless maids? No, I won't do that; if the. silly things, like myself, have neglected to make for themselves friends, they deserve to be friendless. And as for being lonely, I think most of us have had one chance, only we neglected to sieze it. So I think, after all, that we deserve our fate; and, after all, it is still bearable. And I really know of a number of old maids who are a blessing in the community. Am I one of them?" With a guilty shake of the head, she sat musing again a while. Then she suddenly arose. "No, I will not give it away. I'll enjoy it, enjoy it to the fullest extent, myself. That's why it was sent to me. Perhaps God sends me this in answer to all my prayers in my younger days, when I wanted to find a vocation, when I longed to become something in the world. He has seen my patient toiling, weary plodding, and this is my reward. All the things I wanted in my youth I can have now. I can travel, and I will. I can have beautiful clothes, and I will." She walked over to the mirror and surveyed herself. 'T can still be beautiful if I have the price, and I have, and so I will be beautiful." She shook out her long, dark hair, already streaked with grey; looked at the tell-tale crows-feet about the eyes, the still worse lines about the neck, and the downward tendencies of the corners of the mouth. "Ah, I can darken this hair easily; diligent massage will help the wrinkles and the mouth — well I can smile now, plenty of smiling will bring those drooping corners up again, and I can afford to smile now, to be sure, and smile I will and be handsome, for you can't enjoy life unless you're handsome; young and handsome, of course. And I can still fool people as to my age, if I can't fool Father Time. Oh, I’m glad it isn't too late yet, glad, glad! Look, Fm already five years younger, what will I be when I’ve smiled constantly a year or so and adorned myself becomingly?" Helen went to bed feeling very differently to what she had felt for many years, fully determined to be happy ever after, never suspecting that selfish people are never happy. She went to sleep with a vision of the wonderful things she would have. She could have flowers now, they had always been her delight plenty of flowers, ah, every conceivable kind. In fact, she would go to a land of flowers and just live with flowers and beautiful things and congenial people. Accordingly she went. And when she had feasted her eyes 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and her hungry heart till she was satisfied, on the gorgeous flowers, wonderful shrubbery and stately palms of California for six months, she came back to her native city, weary and sadder than she had ever been in the days of her poverty. There was no one to meet her when she returned, for no one had known that she was absent, save an old maiden aunt, who was cross and hard to please. They two were the only near relatives left of their family. Helen stood by her mirror once more, the evening of her home-coming and smiled bitterly at the image which met her gaze. "Poor, foolish girl, you thought you could beguile yourself and others into thinking you young once more; but you counted without your wrinkled old face and your wrinkled old soul. And so you have come back a wiser, if not a very much better, woman than you went away. No, the fortune came too late. "And now, the best and only thing is to find my vocation, if that isn't too late, also, and try to find, at least contentment, for there is no real happiness in this world, after all. "If Aunt Maria wasn't so miserable and disagreeable, I might take her to my heart and nurse her in her old age, but the only pleasant thing about her is her love of flowers. No, I couldn't endure it, that's out of the question, though she hinted pretty broadly about her loneliness, when she heard I had the money. But, of course, I can make her some small monthly allowance, and that I will. "I wonder what one's vocation might really be? In my youth, I used to love to tell stories to children, and I even dreamed once that I might become a story writer, but that's out of the question now. I think I shall go into the flower business, and see what I can do at that. Flowers at least are grateful for a little care; they are like children. And since I have no children, I shall bestow all the pent-up mother love in my withered old breast on flowers — that sounds well, something like old times, when I used to delight in turning pretty phrases: Shows that there is still a spark of the old fire left; it might be kindled into a nice little flame yet. Well, we shall see what tomorrow brings." She was in the habit of saying her prayers, but tonight she went to bed without doing so. She felt a cetrain vague resentment towards Providence for having sent her this fortune so late in life. She felt that she was not grateful, so would not make a pretense at it, so she told herself. What good was money anyway, or life, for that matter? Hers had been so lonely, so empty. The still, little voice that whispered ever so faintly the reason why her life was lonely was unheeded. As for the money, she had been happier without it; more content in her work. "How foolish they are who long for money," she thought HER VACATION. 307 with a tinge of contempt, "they don't know how little it amounts to after they get it. No, it had come too late, at least for her." The next afternoon found her down town at a florist's, looking about and asking different questions as ^;o retail prices of certain plants of which she had already found out the wholesale prices in California, and as she could not well go without buying something, she filled her hands with a generous bouquet of spring flowers, fragrant and beautiful. She decided to take them to her aunt and gladden her old heart. But the old lady had taken an afternoon off and Helen stood on her aunt's doorstep, disappointed and tired, for she had walked all the way in order to enjoy the fresh, green lawns and the budding flowers. She felt cross and irritated. Why on earth couldn't the old lady have stayed at home today of all days? She was always complaining that no one ever came to see her and that she never went to see anybody. Helen slammed the gate, as she went out and stood gazing about her with anything but a pleasant expression, which made her look five years older, had she but known it. She decided to take the car on the next corner, and on the way she passed the magnificent new L. D. S. hospital. She looked at its grey massive walls and thought of the many sufferers it contained, some perhaps anxiously waiting for death and others fervently praying for life. Yes, that was certainly one thing she had forgotten last night — her splendid health. That was worth being grateful for. Now, if she had known someone inside those walls she might have gone in and perhaps made someone glad with these flowers. Suppose she should go anyway? Slowly she retraced her steps back to the entrance. She ascended the broad stone steps and stood hesitatingly in the vestibule. Others were going in all the time, so it must be visiting time. A man in uniform came forward and asked whom she had come to see. Why, she wanted to see an old lady, but had forgotten her name. Did she know on what division she was, or what her trouble was? No, she did not. How long had she been there? Helen could not say exactly how long. The man shook his head and Helen felt rather foolish, and wished she had not come. Just then, one of the nurses, who had been seeing a visitor to the door, turned and came forward. She had evidently heard the conversation, for she asked in a kindly manner if she could be of any assistance. 'T wonder if it isn't old Mrs. Brown, she is a T. B. patient," to the man. Then to Helen: "She is on the fifth floor, but if you'll follow me, I will take you to her. Has she been there a long time?" Helen was sure she had been there quite 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. a longtime, though she did not know how they counted time in the hospital. "She will he glad to see you," continued the nurse; "she has so few friends seemingly. I think her relatives live in the country at quite a distance." Helen thought so, too. She was now certain, she said, that that was the lady she wanted. She followed the nurse up the broad stairways, through the seeming airy corridors, where patients in the convalescent stage reclined in easy chairs in more or less elaborate kimonos and coquettish caps. They were chatting cheerfully, happily. No doubt life looked brighter, more beautiful to them than ever before, now that they might take up its burdens again with the prospects of better health. The nurse had a smile and a kindly word for each, and Helen was wondering whether she had not missed her vocation by not becoming a nurse, as she saw the responsive smiles on all sides. Still they kept on climbing. Now they were on the fifth floor and she followed her white-dressed guide past the different rooms, where scores of patients were lying on their snowy beds, some with hopeful faces, talking to visiting friends, others in utter abandon of suffering with contorted features. Something swelled in Helen's throat, and her eyes grew dim. She took out her handkerchief and just then she brushed by a woman with a tear-stained face, who had just taken leave of someone in an invalid chair. Helen wiped away a tear and, looking up, she saw a little boy, — perhaps ten or twelve years old — with head bandaged and minus his right arm and leg. He had such a pathetic little smile on his thin, pale face, as he watched the retreating figure, evidently his mother. The brave little smile told how hard he tried to show mother that he wanted to bear his misfortune like a man, and the twitching corners of the mouth told how hard it was. Helen took out a handful of flowers and laid them in his lap, as she hurried past him. Then the nurse opened a door and ushered her into a cozy little room, where an old lady was bending herself double, trying to read a book she had great difficulty in keeping on her knees, and it fell to the floor with a crash, as the visitor entered and the wondering old eyes looked up, as she slowly tried to straighten up from her bent position. Helen held out her hand and told the patient she had come to see her and had brought her some flowers. Then Helen thanked the nurse and told her that this was the lady she wanted. The patient was very much surprised and pleased, but said she couldn't remember her and wanted to know if she had just come from the fields, there was such a lovely smell of flowers about her. Helen showed her the flowers again, and told her how she had come there. Then she picked up the book, which proved to be the Bible, and offered to read to her. The old lady was overjoyed, and Helen read and HER VACATION. 309 afterwards talked to her: told her of the beautiful country she had just visited, where there are always flowers in bloom and never any winter. The old lady listened with a child-like expression of wonder and urged her to tell on. "God must have sent you, dear sister," she said, "for I told him today how poor and lonely I was, and that everybody seemed to have forgotten me. Oh, it's so lonely, sister," and the poor old face dropped down to the handkerchief in her hands which she had not lifted from her knees. Helen took the trembling hands and promised that she would not feel so lonely again, for she would come often, and visit her. Arranging the flowers in two glasses and placing them where the patient could see them all the time, Helen took leave, followed by the old lady's tearful gratitude and blessings. As she passed the room outside in which the little boy had sat, Helen peeped in, yes, there he was; the back of his chair had been lowered and he was reclining at full length, her flowers still in his hand. She entered and advanced to the boy and asked with all the sympathy her heart felt for him, how he was. "Better," he said wearily, as if he was tired of being asked. She stood a moment helplessly and looked at him. "You like story-books?" seeing several about him. "Sure, I do!" Then with a sudden thought, 'can't you tell me a story?" "Indeed, I can, and will. It is too late, today, but I will come tomorrow at three o'clock sharp and bring you a picture-book and then I'll tell you stories." The boy's face shone. "Sure, now?" "Sure!" The other patients had become interested. Helen must say a word or two to them, and in her heart she resolved that they should all have flowers on the morrow. Then she patted the boy's hand; his face resumed its weary look. Poor little fellow. To have to go through life with only half a body. Oh, the pity, the sadness of it. when he should come to realize what that would mean. Helen left the hospital treading on air, she smiled on everybody, and they were genuine, heartfelt smiles. As she turned to catch the car, it seemed to her as if she, too, had left some disagreeable complaint in the hospital; and that life hereafter would look better and brighter to her. "I have found my vocation, I have found my vocation," was the song within her, as the car rumbled on. She had to hum a tune, quite low, something she had not done for years. When she reached home, she threw off her wraps, and just sat down and cried, cried for very joy. Could anyone have imagined that there was so much joy in doing a little good. Afterwards she brought out her account book and went over 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. it item my item. She frowned at the sums she had spent in her foolish pleasure-hunt. She would give up the idea of a store, now, but she would have a flower garden and Aunt Maria should help her raise flowers. Yes, she would take her old aunt to live with her and they two would go about distributing flowers: her aunt should share in the pleasure as well as the toil. It was a different Helen Andrews who went to bed that night to the one who had gotten up that morning. She lay till long after the midnight hour had struck, planning how best to arrange her life so as to make the most of what might be left to her. And that boy — ah, she must tell him what a splendid man he could still make of himself in spite of his misfortune, and she must never lose sight of him. Oh, what a blessing that little fortune would be after all! For with it she could bless and serve others — and that, after all, is the only true and lasting happiness. "Thanks, dear Lord, it came just in time. Just in time!" she whispered sleepily. And the Angel of Peace spread his wings over the sleeper. EMPLOYMENT BUREAU AT PRESIDING BISHOP'S OFFICE. Mothers, daughters, or granddaughters should know of the Bureau of Employment which has been established in this city, in the office of the Presiding Bishopric. Elder Frank Penrose meets every train of emigrants, and locates all of them in temporary quarters on their arrival in Utah. He also finds work for men, women, and girls, who apply to him, as well as supplying help to those who require his services. We suggest to all of our Relief Society members that they do net allow their young daughters to come to the city for employment without bringing a letter to the Presiding Bishop's Office, signed by the mother or guardian of the girl who wishes to obtain work, giving the home address of the person wanting work. Instruct your girls to go at once to the Presiding Bishop's Office, and register, Elder Penrose will then look after further details. No charge is made for this help. "The Bridegroom Cometh." By L. Lula Greene Richards. Zion, Thou Bride Elect: Hasten thy purification; Make ready for thy Bridegroom's entrance. Turn not thine eyes on empty vanities, Let them not feast on treasures perishable; But with a steadfast earnestness be fixed Upon the riches of eternity; Let them be cleansed and strengthened to behold The majesty and glory of the Lord. Make clean thy lips from idle, evil speech. Thy tongue from uttering words of foolishness. Incline thine ear to listen and receive Each message heralding the near approach. Freed from all selfishness and vain desires, Thy heart with richness then shall overflow; So shall thy soul be filled with living light, Leaving no room for chilling unbelief. Wear not the worldly, ill-becoming dress, But clothe in beauty, suited to thy state, The garment chaste and plain to cover thee, And peerless, spotless robe of righteousness. From royal jewel-case, gift of thy Prince, Adorn thy neck with gems of faith and hope; Bracelets of honor clasp upon thine arms; Thy girdle be of virtue, strength and love; Sandals of speed, and courage on thy feet; Thy hand the sceptre hold of power and peace; Stand thou erect while over all is draped Thy lovely mantle of pure charity. In reverence bow thy fair and queenly head. While on thy modest, smiling brow is set. By Him who cometh, thy bright crown of truth. When thou art ready, Zion, He will come Who unmistakably declareth — "Lo, I come quickly. I am the Lord! Amen." Home Department. . By Janette J. Hyde. In presenting the articles which will appear in the Home Department of our magazine, we have more especially in mind the many women of our Society who have not the opportunity of consulting professional architects and builders. We hope to cover, eventually, every practical phase of home building, and home-making. Not only shall we present plans for new buildings, but we will also take up new and inexpensive contrivances and improvements, which will be found suitable and feasible to introduce into any of our Relief Society halls or dwelling houses, already builded. In all of these, we will consider the very best methods and materials to be used in their preparation. We have secured the assistance of Architect Don C. Young, Jr., feeling that our sisters and patrons are entitled to the very best professional advice we can secure. "Gardening," which was one of our home departments, has been so successful, that we are more determined than ever to continue along the lines of this work. We have received most flattering reports from almost every stake in Zion, with regard to the success of our Home Garden Lessons. So much were they enthused and so hard have they worked, that thousands of flowers were raised, both for selling and free distribution among the people. Some of our sisters of Canada have gone quite extensively into the raising of flowers. They feel deeply the inspiration of the new Temple, and what that brings to them all. and they realize the importance of associating their beautifying gardening work with the grounds surrounding that sacred edifice. To this end they have established hot-beds, and will make a bower of loveliness, in time, about the Temple. Several calls have come recently to the General Board for plans for new Relief Society halls. In the two plans we present here, the architect has endeavored to combine simplicity of purpose. economy in expenditure, and suitability to all requirements. SCHEME NO. 1. Scheme No. 1 is worked out with the homelike feeling that is found only in the modern bungalow. The style of the building is strictly modern and up-to-date, and is well suited for a broad lot, or a narrow piece of ground, and would fit well on a corner lot. The artistic groupings of the windows, together with the attached flower-boxes, renders the design very attractive and inviting. Materials. The main walls may be constructed of wood covered with selected shingles, or the shingles may be replaced with HOME DEPARTMENT. 313 metal lath and cement plaster having a pebble-dash finish. However, it is recommended that the walls be of brick laid up with a large open joint, giving a rustic appearance to the building. The base is of cement concrete, having a rough and uniform finish which should be done in the forms. The front steps are also to be constructed in cement. The roof is of simple construction suitable to any locality, the weathering to be of wooden shingles, which may be painted a moss-green to add to the color scheme. Interior. The general arrangement of the inside is well studied out, having two entrances, one in front and another at the rear which opens into the kitchen or serving room. The main entrance leads into a reception hall where coats, hats, overshoes, etc., may be removed before entering the main building. At the rear of the entrance hall, may be found ample toilet accommodations. The main work room is 30x16 feet, and is entered directly from the entrance hall through a large double door. This room is well lighted on three sides, having a large old-fashioned fireplace on the further side from the entrance, all of which tends to make the room a very cheerful one. The finish of doors and windows is of plain design, done with natural wood finish. The plaster of walls to be done in a rough sand finish, while the ceiling may have a white hard finish. The floors may be of Oregon fir, flooded with oil and well varnished. At the rear of the main work room there is provided a well equipped buffet kitchen and a good-sized store room provided with ample shelving. The store room can be entered either from the work room or from the kitchen, and will be found very convenient for storing sewing machines and other working paraphernalia. In the kitchen is located a cooler which would take the place of a refrigerator in winter. The building can be provided with a cellar under the rear in which a heating plant could be installed, if so desired. Cost. This scheme. No. 1, is designed to meet the requirements of the smaller towns and villages. Its cubical contents is about 17,000, which would make the cost, for its erection under the most favorable circumstances, from fifteen to seventeen hundred dollars. SCHEME NO. 2. This scheme does not have the homelike appearance that is found in scheme No. 1. It is somewhat larger than scheme No. 1, and has more of an ecclesiastical feeling. The style employed in this scheme is after the colonial order of architecture. Material. The main walls may be constructed either of red brick laid up in a large open joint, or it may be done in stucco on brick or wood with metal lath. The foundation is to be of cement concrete, with a rough, even finish for that part above the ground. The roof in this scheme is also of simple construction with the weathering of wooden shingles, as in the other scheme. The front steps are also of cement. The main entrance is very large and inviting, being placed in the center of the front facade and leads directly through the main hall into the work room. At the right is to be found the secretary's office, while a cloak room occupies the same part of the front of the building at the left. Here also is found ample toilet accommodation. The toilet room is well ventilated with a separate flue, running to the roof. The main work room has a special treatment in the ceiling which is slightly vaulted and springs from stucco moulded cornices on each side of the room. The room is well lighted with properly proportioned windows, trimmed with a plain red gum architrave, finished in Circassian walnut which gives to the room a feeling of welcome and good cheer. As in the other scheme, there is provided a buffet kitchen and store room at the rear of the building. The arrangement of these two rooms is similar to the ones already described. The heating plant, if desired, would be located in the basement, which is under the kitchen and store room. The cubical contents of this scheme is 34.500 feet; and, under the most favorable circumstances, would therefore cost from thirty-five hundred to four thousand dollars. The General Board have decided to organize a Home Committee to carry on the work here suggested, and to take up classes in Home Science, Home Art and Rural Improvement. The Committee will have the endorsement and assistance of Dr. John A. Widtsoe, head of the A. C. U., and his corps of trained experts in the Extension work of that school. Any inquiries or questions concerning home-making and homebuilding can be addressed to Home Department, and we will be pleased to answer. Nursing in the Relief Society. The systematic and properly regulated methods now used in our Relief Society Nurse School is but the outgrowth of the heavenly ministrations inaugurated by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and carried forward in Nauvoo under the charge of his kindly and big-hearted wife, Emma Hale Smith, who was the first president of this Society. She was assisted in this work by such noble and lofty women as Mary Fielding Smith, and Mercy R. Thompson, Eliza R. Snow Smith, Mother Whitney, Marinda and Mary Ann Hyde, Elvira Cowles and Sarah M. Kimball. The Prophet Joseph Smith laid his hands on these womens' heads and set them apart to go about among the sick and minister to their wants. Directly after the saints reached these valleys, the need of trained women nurses was felt. And the quick sympathy of Doctor and President Willard Richards moved him to establish a "Council of Health," in 1849, in his own home, near where the Deseret News Building now stands. Think of it. you moderns, a "Council of Health!" He taught a class of young women in his own small home, such famous women as Zina D. Young, Prescinda H. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, and Susannah Liptrot Richards, wife of the doctor, belonging to this pioneer nurse class. Mrs. Richards was a graduate nurse from England, and taught the class when the doctor could not be present. Our own beloved President, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, carried her baby Isabel in her arms to attend this class, and "Aunt Em" is perhaps the only surviving member of the original Nurse School in this Church. The work going forward now, therefore, is but a modern development of those early efforts. "There were giants in those days." Sister Zina D. Young gave nurse class lectures in the old Exponent office, during the year, 1875, and following years. Our skeleton now used in our Relief Society Nurse Class was purchased by the Relief Society in that early day, and "Aunt Em" laughingly recalls how people stared and wondered how she could stay nights with the gruesome thing in the office. Most of our readers are familiar with the fact that semi-professional training of nurses for Relief Society purposes was undertaken about fifteen years ago. Dr. Romania B. Penrose was the first graduated "Mormon" physician, she having studied in the Woman's College of Physicians and Surgeons, in Philadelphia. She graduated in 1877, and immediately on her return to Utah, she opened a class in obstetrics and nursing, and taught one each year thereafter. The Deseret Hospital, which was the pioneer Utah NURSING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 317 hospital, was opened on 5th East, in 1882. In 1887, Dr. Penrose was made resident physician of the hospital, where she continued until 1893. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, who graduated later than Dr. Penrose, both came home, and established private classes for obstetrics and nursing, on their return to Utah. In 1900, the Relief Society Nurse School was organized and since that date, women have been given a season's class work in the fundamentals of nursing. The Deseret Hospital has graduated professional nurses since their opening, in 1905, and such nurses take a three years' course in that magnificent institution on the hillside. This, of course, prepares them to meet all of the complications and emergencies of their professional careers; while our Relief Society nurses are trained rather for the simpler cases of home nursing, and district visiting, which, after all, are the more important because they are the more frequent. The nurses thus technically prepared are perhaps more skillful, and the work is now more systematically engaged in than in our Pioneer days, yet with no more loving care nor generous solicitude. Perhaps not as much faith is manifested today, as was manifested by the devoted women who gave their services in our pioneer communities, because they were needed and worked with little training, no money, and no thought of reward. In the last fifteen years, the Relief Society Nurse School has had three teachers — Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, who opened the class work; Dr. Romania B. Penrose, and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp who taught one year in the school, in 1907, graduating thirty-three well equipped nurses, all of whom passed the State Board of Examination and most, if not all, of whom are in the field today doing good work. The following article by Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings, and the note which follows, were furnished at the request of the editor of the Magazine: The Relief Society School of 1915. By Priscilla P. Jennings. The Relief Society Nurses have just completed their course for 1915. It has been a very successful class. Dr. M. C. Roberts — their instructor — has spared no pains in training them in the essentials for a nurse, and has given them many advantages by having efficient doctors lecture to them. She has put them in a way to make good use of their knowledge, and to make fine, noble women of themselves. What we expect of our Relief Society nurses is that they will be honorable in keeping their appointments, always responding NURSING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 319 to the call of suffering humanity. They have been set apart by the brethren holding the Priesthood, and they now go forth to do their part with the Spirit of the Lord resting over them. We shall hope for them to go to the sick in all humility, and with a prayer in their hearts, that the Lord will bless them with his Spirit, that they may be a great success in taking care of the sick. We expect them to be a comfort to the family of the afflicted. They are many times called to the houses of the poor, and it is more blessed to minister to those that have not the means to help themselves, than to wait upon the rich, and the well favored. In doing good to others, we receive a greater blessing for ourselves. Therefore, the dear nurses must be always ready to help those who need them. There will be many things to endure, but when we are walking in the path that Jesus walked, we will always have his Spirit with us. We expect our nurses to attain the highest standard through their love and charity for others. We are very proud of our nurses; and as they are in such demand, we would advise many more of our young girls to take up the work. If a woman does not need the profession for support, it will always be a great benefit to her in her own family. Let the Relief Society nurse be the very best woman and saint in our whole community. REASONS FOR A RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL. As given By Dr. M. C. Roberts. 1st: That the most distant, rural, community as well as those living in cities, may receive skillful nursing. The students sent by the Relief Society are charged a nominal fee, in consideration of which, they sign a contract to do a certain amount of charity nursing; and for a specified length of time, they nurse for wages, as designated by the president of the ward Relief Society. 2nd: Women who have to support themselves — and others — and can not take a three years' course at a hospital, may obtain a lucrative profession in this way. 3rd: We consider this course in nursing a most essential part of every woman's education, that she may understand herself physically, and the laws of hygiene and sanitation — preparing herself for the great work of wifehood and motherhood. Students have come from Arizona, Colorado, Canada, Idaho, Mexico, Nevada, Utah and Wyoming. There have been three hundred and twenty Relief Society nurse graduates in the eight classes taught by Dr. Roberts, besides the private pupils that she has taught in obstetrics and nursing. Clothing for Women. PROPER DRESS FOR NURSES. It may be that some unthoughtful persons who see a nurse in her starched dress, apron, and cap, walking about a sick room, or, perchance, taking a little stroll in the neighborhood for a breath of fresh air, obtain the impression that this regulation costume is simply an affectation. Now, this is not so. There is a very good reason why the nurses should, and usually do, wear the uniform prescribed for them in all modern hospitals, and used by professional nurses in homes as well as in institutions. The reason for this costume is simple — it is purely a matter of hygienic protection to both patient and nurse, as well as to the other inmates of the hospital. The clean-looking blue or white dress is starched, not alone for looks, but also because bacteria find no lodgment in such wearing apparel. In the first place, it is uniform, that is, the pattern of the dress, apron, and cap are pretty much alike in every institution or hospital, with such modifications as individual taste may indicate. This uniformity is dictated by good sense and economy. It is working along the line of least resistance in dress. Second, the colors are white or blue, because both these shades are restful and attractive to the eye of sick people, and because they easily show the least accretion of soil or uncleanliness; and uncleanliness, you know, is both unsanitary and unhealthful. The material for the nurse's dress is cotton or linen, because it washes easily, launders nicely, is cool in the warm temperature of most sick rooms, and it has the added recommendation of being cheap and easily obtained in quantities. Nurses usually change their uniforms three times a week. The form of the dress, apron, and cap, follow graceful lines — the simplest of fashions, the skirt being short, the apron made with a bib, while the sleeve finishes with a cuff that can easily be rolled back, and the apron has a comfortable pocket. The cap is worn, not so much for ornament, — although it is an exceedingly chic addition to the trim little costume, — but its presence is required to prevent the nurses from filling their hair with diseased microbes from patients' breaths and bodies — such, at least, was the original idea in nurses' caps. We suggest an adaptation of this costume for the mother or sister who is nursing her beloved sick in her own home, and thus secure as near an approach to the ideal regulation nurses' custom as she may. Genealogy. The great International Congress on Genealogy, to be held the last week in July in San Francisco, is arousing deep interest in this intermountain region. Especially is this true of the Utah Genealogical program, which is to be held on July 27, during that week. We are pleased to say that the Genealogical Society of Utah has named twenty-five delegates from that Society, headed by President Joseph F. Smith, President Anthon H. Lund, President Chas. W. Penrose, President Francis Marion Lyman, Bishop C. W. Nibley, and twenty other well-known delegates. The Relief Society Extension Work which has excited interest, not only in this country, but in Europe, and which was the subject of a paragraph in a German antiquarian magazine of recent date, will be represented on the program of the Utah Society. We are happy to say that President Emmeline B. Wells, who was one of those who were baptized in the Mississippi River by the Prophet Joseph Smith, when the principle of salvation for the dead was introduced, will be at the head of the Relief Society delegation. So deep is the interest felt by the presiding authorities of the Church and of this Society that each member of the General Board of the Relief Society has been appointed a delegate to this great convention; and most of them will accompany President E. B. Wells and the other delegates from the Relief Society in the special train, which will be provided for this great party. The names of the Stake and Ward Relief Society delegates should be sent in to this office from the various stakes not later than the last week in June, as the Genealogical Society of Utah intend publishing the program, which will be used in the convention, and the delegates' names will be printed in this program. We wish to say to all of our friends, that visitors may enter this party at any time, even within the last three days; but if they wish to become delegates, which means they will have a seat in the convention, and have a vote, their names should be sent as soon as possible, so that they can be published in the program which is to be prepared by the Genealogical Society of Utah. We congratulate all who may take this trip, as it will be historic in every sense of the word. Sample pages of the L. D. S. Family and Individual record can be furnished at 45c a hundred, or $3.35 a thousand, not including postage. Other blanks, 10c a dozen. Current Topics. James H. Anderson. "Clean-up day" in Utah has had a really remarkable effect in most of the cities, by giving them a tidier appearance. Whatever may be the next great development of the European war, the dismemberment of Turkey now seems to be a settled fact. Eleven thousand women have been enrolled on the police force in the larger cities of Italy, to keep peace at home while the men make war abroad. Tranquility in the Far East has been assured through China yielding to the demands of Japan. The latter has the most and the biggest guns and the best trained soldiery. The University of Utah dispute seems to have settled down to the point where the law which requires the board of regents to control the institution is being given real effect. The Mexican people continue to starve or butcher each other. After two years, the difficulties in our sister republic seem to be no nearer an amicable settlement. California has been known as "the beet sugar State," but Utah is running her a close second. Two new sugar factories will be built in Utah this year, one in Salt Lake and another in Davis county, while California loses at least one such factory. One class of leading citizens declares that the United States navy is equal to all prospective emergencies, while another class insists that the contrary is the fact; but neither has such confidence in our naval strength as to seek an actual demonstration of which is right. Dr. Bernhard Dernberg, former German colonial secretary, and erstwhile unofficial spokesman for Germany in the United States, has found it advisable to depart from America, because of his objectionable utterances on international affairs. Even a parrot can get into trouble by talking too much. Now Portugal has had a touch of war, albeit this was of an internal character. A few of the smaller nations of Europe only CURRENT TOPICS. 323 are not involved in war, yet even these are "holding the clothes" of the combatants by caring for the rights of belligerents in the warring nations, and suffering themselves actual injury by the conflict. At the Mohonk conference on international arbitration, President Hibben of Princeton University startled the ultra-peace advocates by demanding an armed preparation "against war," if not "for war." At this point the conference failed to apply its own theory of arbitration to get its differing elements to an amicable agreement. Ex-President Taft sounds a word of warning to the American people in calling attention to the extreme attitude assumed by some leaders of the American Federation of Labor. The ex-president says those leaders seek to make of themselves a privileged class, and often exercise a power that has become oppressive and detrimental to the public weal and good of society. Three great volcanoes were in active eruption in the United States during the month of May — Lassen Peak in California and Iliamna and an unidentified mountain in Alaska. In the case of Lassen Peak, ashes were carried a distance of over 200 miles. It is a comfort to know that neither of these disturbers of earth and air are within easy reach of thickly populated districts. While the work is going on quietly, a notably beneficial advancement in the care of the sick and suffering among people in this part of the world is being made by the training of so many intelligent women as Relief Society nurses, ever ready to hear the call of the distressed and to give needed relief both by deed and faith. America's Liberty Bell is to be in Salt Lake City on July 11, en route to the exposition at San Francisco. Of the many thousands who will flock to view the historic relic, not a few will be impressed with the virtue in a thought expressed by the poet, that while the "old bell now is silent, and hushed its iron tongue, the music it awakened still lives, forever young." A commission in Salt Lake county, Utah, has discovered that fully eighty per cent of the school children there have defective teeth. Here is a good opportunity for dental science to relieve a world of suffering, not only in toothache among the tots, but in stomach troubles which result from the defective condition complained of. Meanwhile, "candy intoxication" will give continuous 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. trouble. When Col. James R. Mann, Republican leader in the Congressional House of Representatives, and in a position necessarily opposed to any party measure of the present national administration, was invited to offer a criticism of President Wilson's neutrality policy in the present European crisis, he silenced the would-be agitators by the laconic reply that there were "too many nations at war already." This is the view of the most capable American statesmen, regardless of party affiliations. In the libel suit between two of New York's great men, Theodore Roosevelt and William H. Barnes, the former says trial by jury is a success, because the verdict was in his favor; while his opponent is not so certain about it. Be that as it may, even the verdict of "twelve men good and true" in New York does not settle the question in the minds of the friends of the contestants; these differ as widely as before. Lord Kitchener is severely criticized by some of the newspapers in England, for his conduct of the British campaign in the present war. There is nothing new in editors assuming to know more about militant matters — with their tongues, or pencils — than do trained soldiers. Neither Lincoln nor Grant were strangers to this fact; and in Kitchener's own experience he has been most severely criticized when on the verge of his greatest success. William Marconi, the inventor, says he has discovered a method by which persons can look through a solid wall and observe what is going on on the other side, but he will not give it out for fear of the evil purposes to which the method may be put. The use of such a discovery might be discomforting to a great many people, but the Good Book says there "is nothing secret that shall not be made known," and if Marconi does not tell, then someone else will, since human curiosity and energy do not permit such a discovery to remain unexploited. A notable event of the past month in the European war was the sinking of the great ocean liner Lusitania by a German submarine, off the coast of Ireland, the lives of over eleven hundred non-combatants — men, women and children — being lost. Nearly one hundred Americans met death by the sinking of the ship, and the United States government made a vigorous protest to Germany against such methods in warfare. Little Holland, too, almost under the German heel, made emphatic objection to this act by the Teutons, there being a number of citizens of that nation among those who were lost. The world waits breathlessly for the political outcome of this tragic incident. In the Kitchen Laboratory. Mrs. Hazel I. L. Dunford. FOOD FOR THE SICK. The feeding of well persons is a question of great moment, but when it comes to preparing food for those who are ill, the subject is of relatively supreme importance. The appetite of a well individual is usually a safe guide, but in case of disease, it is usually so perverted as to be of no practical use. And if these longings are followed, the result is generally a disappointment; for, as a rule, when one is ill "all things have the same taste," as we have often heard patients say. Never consult a sick person as to what he shall have to eat, or even discuss his diet within hearing distance. The physician in attendance, usually prescribes for the patient, and he should know the required need of the one in his charge. In many diseases, food plays a very important part toward recovery. The quantity and kind vary, according to the nature of the disease. In some cases, it is absolutely necessary to withhold food for days— the object being to starve the germs that cause the disease. In chronic cases, the food supply should be studied carefully, and the strength of the patient kept up. As a rule, in such a case, one has the advice of a physician to follow. Always avoid giving food that will overtax the individual. Food must be assimilated to be of any use. A common mistake made is to overfeed — especially during convalescence — and the result is too often a relapse. In preparing food for the sick, there are a few essential things that should be kept in mind: Cleanliness of every article is absolutely necessary. Appeal to the sense of sight as much as possible; appeal to the sense of taste; consider the digestibility of the food given, and remember economy. Many times a sick person in the house calls for all sorts of extravagances. This is not necessary. As was pointed out in a previous article, foods purchased out of season are of inferior quality, due to the shipping, packing, etc. The high price paid in no way renders these foods more easily digested. If food is well cooked and artistically served — no matter how cheap — it will be acceptable by those who are sick. 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. RECIPES. Eggnog. Break one egg into a bowl, add 1/4 teaspoon salt and 2 teaspoons of sugar; beat until very light. Add 1 cup good milk, and a little nutmeg; serve immediately. Foamy Omelet. Separate the yolks from the whites of two eggs. To the yolks add 1/4 teaspoon salt, a dash of pepper. Beat with Dover egg-beater until light; add 2 tablespoons of milk. Beat the whites until fairly stiff, and fold them into the yolks. Pour the mixture into a hot buttered omelet pan; cook for about five minutes, then put into the oven for one minute to cook the upper surface. Cut nearly through, and lay one-half over the other. Serve immediately. Egg Cream. Separate yolks of two eggs from the whites. Add two tablespoons sugar to yolks. Beat until well mixed; add juice and grated rind of half lemon. Place in a dish over hot water, and cook until the mixture begins to thicken. Add beaten whites of eggs and stir two minutes. Serve cold. Beef Tea. Cut in one-half inch pieces one-half of a round steak; cover it with cold water and add one-half teaspoon salt. Let stand for three hours. Strain, and then put in a fruit jar — or glass preferably— and heat slowly in warm water until it just loses its red color. Serve in a hot bowl or glass. Prune Whip. 1/2 lb. dried prunes, soaked over night. Boil until tender in water in which they have been soaked. Strain through colander. Add to this 2 tb. lemon juice, 1/2 cup sugar, and boil five minutes, making a puree. Let cool, and fold in the whites of 3 to 5 eggs. Bake in a slow oven. Serve with a boiled custard, made of yolks of the eggs used, 4 tb. sugar, 1 1/2 pints of milk, or more if desired. A little pinch of salt and a few drops of vanilla. ODE TO THE TABERNACLE ORGAN By Minerva P. Shaw. Thy echo moves our hearts to tears; Our bosoms swell; and yet, 'Tis not from vanished hopes or fears, Remorse, nor vain regrets; But tears refreshing seem to come, Like dewdrops to the flowers; To purify the human soul, And calm this world of ours. OGDEN, JUNE 1, 1915. Good Health. By Mated Baggarley. WATER. No thirsty mortal will dispute the fact that water — pure and cold — is the nectar of the gods. It is, and ever will be, Nature's sovereign remedy for sundry ills that flesh is heir to. Like every other great and good thing the Lord has given to man, it can be had without money and without price. As Lowell says: "There is no price set on the lavish summer And spring may be had by the poorest comer — " Thus it is with water, and with air! And yet we daily jostle — in Life's crowded thoroughfare — those who are in dire need of either an internal or external bath; persons whose systems are clogged and whose senses are sluggish, all for the lack of that which may be had even easier than Aladdin obtained what he desired. They do not even need to rub a lamp! One in health requires water, not only to quench thirst, but to flush every part of the body. He needs it in the form of warm baths to cleanse the covering of the sub-tissues, the skin, and to keep the pores open. If young people who are troubled with pimples, would only take a cold bath every morning— shower, sponge or plunge — those unsightly blemishes would quickly disappear. They are nature's cry for a cup of cold water. Yet many boys and girls in despair, will diet strictly (which makes matters worse), or will even pay for x-ray treatments, (which are expensive, dangerous and useless), when all they need is a liberal diet, — consisting mainly of graham, cornmeal, whole-wheat or rye bread, milk, butter, fruit, and an abundance of green vegetables, and anything else they desire, in moderation, and well chewed — a warm bath, with plenty of soap, once a week, and the application of cold water internally and externally. If, in addition, they sleep in the open air and use brain and muscles freely, the result will certainly be beneficial not only to them but to the race. A tepid sponge bath will soothe a feverish child; and a free use of cold water, in the hands of one who understands, will allay a raging fever that strikes at the very citadel of life itself! Nothing in the world will relieve a baby, screaming with 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. colic, as quickly as an intelligent use of water. When an attack threatens, give the very young baby a hot foot bath; the older infant, a hot sitz bath, until it is thoroughly warmed. Test the water with your elbow to prevent burning, and keep adding warm water. Then dry quickly, and put on its clothing which has been warmed by the fire; give a couple of teaspoonfuls of hot water, containing a pinch of salt (common table salt), apply a thick cloth wet with alcohol over the abdomen; and, finally, give a small injection of warm water, and you will save yourself work and worry, for the babe will sleep for hours without stirring. For croup, wring a cloth out of cold water and wrap it around the patient's throat, and cover it with a dry one; give frequent doses of warm, consecrated oil or glycerine, and the child will soon cease to cough. A warm bath is good for nervousness or sleeplessness; a cold one is a bracing tonic that beats tea, coffee, and drugs a mile. Dr. Woods Hutchinson suggests that most people are underfed. He might have added that nine out of ten were perishing for water! Water treatment has become a science, and is dignified by the cognomen of hydropathy. A full statement of its curative value would fill a volume. To show appreciation of a gift we must use it. Then let us prove our gratitude to the Eternal Father, for water, by using it to "Make the house where Gods may dwell, Beautiful, entire, and clean." The General Board are delighted to welcome home Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon who has been spending the winter in the far-off Islands of the Pacific — Hawaii. Sister Cannon has not been idle while she was away from Headquarters, but has met with the Relief Society in Honolulu, and has done a great deal of good, both amongst the sisters there, and with the elders. The Presidency of that mission felt very grateful for the splendid assistance rendered by Sister Cannon; and we also rejoice in the good work she has done. Welcome home. A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. Two hours before sunset a filthy burial cart was just issuing from the great gateway of Ur on the southeast side of the city. It was the crude and rough cart which was used to carry out the pauper dead of the city to the sepulchers lying in the sides of the low, hilly hummocks back of the river. The great mounds which had opened their cave-like mouths for many generations to swallow the dead of Ur were grim and loathsome in the lower portions of these hills. Along the upper edges there were many carved and beautiful sarcophagi, while here and there along the face of the cliffs hung palms, or acacias with trading verdure. At the upper portions of the tombs and burial caves, there were carved images of many gods known to Assyria, rising on pedestals under the palms or squatting on low bases, and flower-bedecked. But to the far end of all this grandeur there slept in simplicity the less favored ones of the city's dead, while at its extreme south edge there was a huge yawning cave into which the promiscuous corpses were flung without much ceremony and over them was thrown quick dissolvents to prevent possible infection. Out of the city's gateway, therefore, the death-cart lumbered with creaking wheels and dust-rising slowness. The peasant driver crept along beside the cart clucking to his jaded ass and himself springing forward occasionally to avoid the lash of his master who chatted idly with the passers by or rode up from time to time to accelerate the cart-driver's speed. As the dreary death-march proceeded thus rudely, three female forms, clad in dark abayas. but with the unveiled faces of the Accadians, ran hastily out of the city gate and peered anxiously down the crowded roadway for something not seen, in the press of other vehicles and travelers. They ran this way and that on the road, always making for the road which led to the sepulchers of the dead. Finally, with a cry the taller one, a grave and handsome girl of twenty, with close-crinkled hair of ebony hue, and wide but scarlet lips, set in a face of simple black homely charm, cried loudly, "See sisters, there it is. Hasten, we will be too late." The two ran after her with fleet steps, and catching up with the death-cart, the elder maiden spoke hurriedly to the loutish driver. 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Wait! Wait, I beg of you. Is not this the body of the poor slave Zarah who was done to death today in the slave-market?" "Huh?" asked the lout stupidly. The girl repeated her question. But the slave would not deign to attempt to fathom in what matter so singular a question about an unknown dead slave could be asked. How was he to know she had come by her death? Life was cheap beside the river Euphrates. He chucked loudly to his sleepy beast and started to rumble on, the corpse bounding to and fro as he rode roughly away. "O, stop," cried the girl. "See, here is money." That was a form of salutation easily understood by every menial since the world began. Out shot the filthy hand, and into it dropped a small Assyrian coin. The cart was halted, the bit of cloth thrown over the dead was pulled away, and at once, as the sisters crowded around the bier, each whispered solemnly to the other: "It is Zarah!" While they stood thus weeping beside the cart, the officer came up swearing in guttural Assyrian. But as he saw the three black maidens bowed over the cart, he too stopped and stared. "O, sir," said the elder girl, "this was the sister of my mother. She was once a free woman, but was sold by a Prince's son to a merchant of Ninevah. We had just learned of her return to this city when the news of her violent death also reached us. Our father is Azzi-jaami — the idol-maker in the house of the prince of Ur, Patriarch Terah. Release this poor corpse, and let us give you money for a decent burial." The officer, himself none too intelligent, sat upon his horse, stupidly annoyed, thus to be interrupted in his official duties. A bit of human carrion, more or less, mattered little to him, but the interruption of his regular official duties was so unusual that he was quite at a loss how to proceed. Without replying, he rode back towards the city a few paces and, as his eye caught the figure of two well-known foreign merchants, he called out. "Javanu! here, this way. See, here are three wenches who say they are from the Palace of Terah, and they are asking for decent burial for this dirty slave, just dead in the market-place. What say you?" The man appealed to came trotting up, wide-eyed with curiosity, and the moment his eyes were clapped upon the three maidens, he shouted, "Daughters of Azzi-jaami. what luck to meet you here in the very outskirts of Ur — " "What ho, merchant," cried the officer angrily, "I have no time to listen to your wide-mouthed greetings to these daughters A PRINCE OF UR. . 331 of the house of Terah. Answer me my question, if you can. Are they what they claim to be?" "Who but a stupid clown of a guard would fail to recognize the pillars of polished ebony which grace the courts of my great friend Terah's dwelling? These are surely free-born daughters of the tribe of Terah." "But for the money," cried the officer rudely, "what money have you? Quick, for the people press about, and the carrion must be thrown under ground speedily or it will cause disease." The girls each emptied her small store of ready coins into the hands of the rapacious officer, but he still grumbled and cursed, under his breath, for the two merchant travelers had passed on down the road. The officer was about to order the cart to move onward when a tall form pushed through the crowd now gathered around the funeral procession, and Abram, with a little black child trotting at his heels, walked quickly up to the group beside the cart. The populace fell away in silent respect as the prince approached the cart, and even the officer touched his helmet and sprang from his horse to stand as the prince passed him. "What is it, daughters of Azzi-jaami? Why do you linger here?" "See, my lord," and they drew the covering from the bloated face of the murdered slave girl. "Ah," and Abram groaned as he saw the face. "Who is this?" They told him. Without more words, he told the driver of the cart to turn towards the upper end of the hills. He put money into the hands of the officer and sent him forward to purchase needed funeral supplies. He turned to the girls, and asked them sternly, "How has this thing come about? Can it be possible that this is the poor slave Mardan slew this day?" "It is the lord Mardan who hath wrought this wickedness," said Argob, the second daughter. "He was soon weary of the sister of our mother, and sold her into slavery to a merchant of Ninevah. It is only today that she returns, and behold!" "Thou hast much to do, Prince Abram," said the officer who had lingered near, "to answer for the crimes committed under thy father's roof-tree. Mardan hath more arms than the Goddess Mylitta and hath wasted more women than the God Merodach." "Doth thy father know that you are thus abroad in the streets of the city?" asked Abram, who knew the close guardianship put upon these comely maidens by their jealous father. "Nay, we have been led by the sorrow of our hearts rather than the wisdom of our heads." Abram said no more. But he walked slowly onward to the far northern slopes of this long sepulchral hill, and before fol332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. lowing him, the three maidens stooped to the road and throwing sand upon their heads, they cowered in the folds of their abayas, and followed Abram with the black baby at his heels, all three of them walking along with swaying bodies and uttering the shrill minor wailing cries for the dead. The baby put up his arms for Abram to carry him, for the quivering notes of that minor wail now shrilled along a high nasal key or muttered in half-vocalized words, then dropping to a low tone, still in weird minor sounds, — chilled the baby's very soul, while it echoed down the crowded roadways and all the passersby made way silently and respectfully for the queerly assorted mourning party. The officer dropped away from them as they walked onward, but Abram led the strange procession with unchanged brows. It was fully an hour later when they reached one of the many little embalming shops close beside the better class of sepulchers, and here Abram ordered the body cleansed and prepared for speedy burial; while outside, the three sisters sat upon the hot pavements and wailed in true oriental fashion for their deceased relative. The baby was their own half-brother, but he would not venture near them while they were pouring forth their minor chants and wild wailing cries, for he was frightened; so he kept close beside his master's heels, secure in that great protection which all helpless, hopeless things felt when Prince Abram was near. At length the body was ready. A dozen hired wailers had joined the girls upon the sands, and the procession made its slow, and now respectable way up to a fairly decent cave or sepulcher — the wailers howling dismally —wherein were chambers divided into receptacles for the respectable moneyed class of the city's dead. And here the poor dead slave was placed, on a long ledge or shelf, laid upon her rig-ht side, and Adah, the eldest daughter was careful to place a large copper bowl of dates beside the body, and over its rim she drew the hand of the dead woman as if about to eat of the fruit in the bowl. With a last look of reverential farewell, the party left the sepulchre, and the mouth of the cave was sealed for a season. The three black maidens were very sad and silent as they emerged from the place of the dead. Abram asked them if they would let him send them in to the city on the backs of hired asses; but all three refused. Each was very glad thus to be released from their recent sad occupation — and all three were filled with a secret relief thus to be outside of their cramped and guarded quarters. Brought but recently to the palace of Terah from the vine-clad hills of the Accadian mountains, the girls were somewhat weary of the semi-concealment insisted upon by their strict father, and all were glad to wander slowly homeward in the cooling dusk of the evening. Therefore, Abram left them to stroll A PRINCE OF UR. 333 quietly along as they would to the palace walls; for he was well aware that the Assyrian customs were widely lenient in matter of freedom for women in civil and domestic life, although his own father and the master-workman, Azzi-jaami, were still fain to cling to the older customs of the patriarchal forefathers, which gave the women of the household far less freedom. Abram's mind was racked with the distressing scenes he had just witnessed, the murder, the burial, and the utter lack of human sympathy which he saw everywhere about him, for both life and for death. To Abram's keenly philosophical mind this frivolity of purpose, this cheap and illusory measure of life's deepest problems, was one of the most painful forecasts for the future of his beloved and beautiful native land. He walked rapidly away from the fretted environs of the city, and on along down the groves of acacia and palms, with the fullbearing date-trees on every side, until he reached the river banks. It was in the latter part of the month of May, and the scene upon which his eyes rested would have delighted a far less poetic and artistic soul than was that of the prince of Ur. The great river Euphrates was at its flood. But instead of allowing its heavy waters to cover the surrounding lands with unchecked wasting destruction, huge channels, canals and river dyke vah  to  s flowed through their sluices in regular and appointed fashion. Many of the canals had been made possible by the skillful advice of Abram's forefathers and the latest and greatest canal of them all was that which parted his father's mammoth plantation into a thousand fertile sections. Thus were the quickening channels of moisture led to the roots of every tree and plant, for not many weeks hence, the seeds thus moistened would spring forth into fully matured wheatheads, and the fields of grain would smile across the face of the landscape for miles inland from the shores of this life-giving river. Nothing could exceed the beauty and luxury of this riverside and its now verdant borders. Bee-eaters, kingfishers, herons, pigeons, hawks, and other birds, in all their bright and varied plumage, flew about the tree tops, uttering their several cries; and none seemed to notice the presence of this lonely wanderer along the river-banks. The great city and its noise and glamor were far away. Here was the quiet peace of the tropical evening. The groves of date-palms among which he wandered would soon show their clusters of gold and amber under the glowing green of dusky leaves. Abram raised his eye as he thought of the luxury with which he was surrounded. Here was his country's rarest product— the luxurious date-palm — and he himself stood in the midst of his father's magnificent groves which were famed from Nine vah Babylon. amber fruit-clusters were his father's These the gold to mines. For beside food which they furnished to his father's households, they served as noble merchandise to the neigh334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Boring nations; from tree trunk to leaf; the very kernels, when broken up were fed to his father's goats. An incision in the stems yielded a drink which took the place of wine to very many of the Chaldeans. The crowns which grew from the tops of the trees were boiled for food, as well as the inner fiber and piths. Mats and baskets were made from the leaves, while the stems furnished the pillars, roofing and furniture of many palaces; exquisite pieces of furniture were sent, when so fashioned, as far as Babylon, because of their artistic workmanship. The whole landscape about him was amazingly fertile and all was highly cultivated. Shady with palms and acacias, it was also rich in pomegranates, and golden with the finest wheat-fields. Millet and sesame grew to a fabulous height, and all kinds of grain plants produced two and even three hundred fold. Such was the enchanted land from which Abram feared in his inmost soul he must shortly flee, and set out as a wanderer and a pilgrim. Wearied by his long walk, Abram drew near one of the numerous boat-houses on the plantation. The servants in charge sprang intsantly forward as soon as Abram's form emerged from the forest path. "What is thy pleasure, O my lord?" asked one as he bowed low before the prince. Abram had been carrying the sleeping babe in his powerful, young, arms, but now, he placed his charge in the arms of the servant and bade him prepare a boat for a short row down the river. The breeze coming up from the gulf would fan his brows and the ride would quiet his thoughts. The servants filled the boat with richly embroidered cushions, and into these Abram laid the baby with great care. He leaned back in the bow of the slight vessel and just as they were about to >tart, another boat shot into view around the bend of the river. .\n elegant boat richly garnished was that with pale purple cushions, and red silken sails gleamed in the dusk of the evening's glow. On the low couch-like seat within, fanned by two nude female slaves and leaning in patrician ennui "upon the opalescent colorings of his downy nest, lay the bloated and yet elegantly formed head and face of the Prince Mardan. "What ho, Abram," cried he, his voice dulcet sweet with indolent pleasure, "it is mine own evening airing time that I am taking. Step, I pray thee, into mine own boat, and let my slaves row thee and me together, I would fain have converse with thee." Abram, always quick to accord forgiveness when it was asked or implied, looked gravely, yet with not unkind eyes, into the smooth face and the bold eyes of his distant kinsman. But he answered firmly. "Nay, Mardan. Thy luxurious appointments do not accord with my more simple tastes. Let our boats slip along side by side. A PRINCE Of UR. 335 Or come beside me here. Then, if thou hast aught to say to me, it can well be communicated. Mardan, courtier that he was, instantly sprang from his own boat, and with graceful gestures, he alighted deftly on his cousin's boat, while he offered also his own slave to fan the sleeping brows of the black baby resting on Abram's more meager cushions. As the boat shot swiftly but quietly into the midwaters of the river, propelled by the skillful oarmen on the sides, Mardan looked up casually into the face of his companion sitting upright among the cushions. Abram never lolled. "Abram," he said, 'T have been wanting to see you all this day. You know that thy father Terah has given much of the conduct of his affairs into my hands, while he is out with my father Nimrod's armies. I have sought to branch out in every direction to improve his properties. You know how I have traveled from Ninevah to Babylon to secure the richest merchandise, the rarest stuffs, and constantly to negotiate sale for our profit." Abram was quite aware also of the imminent danger involved to his father's property by reason of some of the wild speculations of this same princelet, but he was not given to much speech. So he merely sat a little straighter on the cushioned seat as if to listen with all seriousness to what Mardan might have to say. "You will recall that my own father Nimrod and I were on the very point of negotiating a sale of this very plantation with thy father, which would bring thy grandfather Terah many chests of golden treasures." "I have often wondered what possible use there would be in such a sale, Mardan," replied Abram gravely. "Where could we go to better ourselves? And what is the use of gold and silver, when there are no homes, no plantations, no fields or farms? I have also wondered why both my kinsman Harran and grandfather Terah could contemplate such a sacrifice." Mardan's brows flushed in the fading sunlight. "Why, Abram, how foolishly you talk. What can you, a philosopher, an astronomer, an irrigationist, a poet, a student know of money transactions? Leave such things to other and more worldly-wise heads." Mardan turned away as if looking over the vast spires and towers of the city behind them in soft contemplation. "No, "-he resumed, "I have found that thy father Terah will refuse to complete that sale. But when it was in contemplation, there were bills of sale made out in my favor, and on these bills usury was chargeable to the amount of several measures of gold. I have still those usury tables in my possession. And in thinking the matter over, it has seemed nothing but right that I should divide up my father's, my own and your portion into thirds, you receiving one-third, my father one-third, and myself one-third." (to be continued.) EDITORIAL Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Misi Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Misi Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla V. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janbtti A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman > Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, UtahVol. II. JULY, 1915. No. 7. DESTRUCTION UPON THE WATERS The In a revelation, given to the Prophet Joseph Prophecy. Smith, August 12, 1831, and found in Section 61 in the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord pronounces this solemn prophecy: "Behold, I, the Lord, in the beginning blessed the waters, but in the last days, by the mouth of by servant, John, I cursed the waters; "Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters. "And it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to the land of Zion upon the waters, but he that is upright in heart. "And, as I, the Lord, in the beginning cursed the land, even so in the last days have I blessed it, in its time, for the use of my saints, that they may partake the fatness thereof. "And now I give unto you a commandment that what I say unto one I say unto all, that you shall forewarn your brethren concerning these waters, that they come not in journeying upon them, lest their faith fail and they are caught in her snares; EDITORIAL. 337 "I, the Lord have decreed, and the destroyer rideth upon the face thereof, and I revoke not the decrees." How incomprehensible that forecast was to the handful of Saints who listened to the Prophet's inspired voice at that little meeting on the banks of the Missouri. How impossible of fulfilment it appeared to the scoffer and the atheist. How far-off and visionary it seemed, then, and for years after, to many ? nay, to most, who read this remarkable revelation. And yet, we live today under conditions that make its absolute fulfilment seem natural and simple. Only the The dread picture cast before the mind in these Upright passages is relieved by the promise that the up may reach right in heart shall be able to reach the land of the Land of Zion. All this land of ours, this beautiful America, is Zion. And the safety of ships which carry "Mormon" missionaries has passed into a familiar proverb, in sea-faring circles. That there have been one or two losses and deaths of our saints upon the waters can be traced in every instance to the failure of those who were lost to follow counsel. These exceptions only make the rule the stronger. The Prophet Vindicated Once more the scoffing world is met by the challenge of events, which prove beyond the possibility of a doubt that the Prophet Joseph Smith spoke by the gift and power of God. The Lord ? after warning and forewarning* the world ? is now permitting the angels of fulfilment to sweep over the waters with the besom of destruction the engines thereof conceived and shaped by men, and used under the inspiration of hate and war. Be ye not Those who stand in holy places shall not be moved. moved. For the end is not yet. There is work for us to do, sisters, friends. Work ? for the living, to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, to minister to the broken-hearted. Work for the dead ? to redeem our kindred who have been waiting in their prison houses; to study the scriptures, to enlarge our understandings, to prepare ourselves for the end here, and for the glorious hereafter. Let us be up and doing. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Lesson ITT ? Summer Hygiene Lesson. CARE of children. Never in the history of the world has so much attention been given to the care and training of children as at the present time, and never were human efforts better bestowed. Marked increase in the length of life and better health are among the results: That, of course, should imply that greater happiness will come to the human family and increased efficiency for carrying on the good work of the world. But though much has been accomplished in the real work of enlightening and training people in general, there is yet much to be done. Many beautiful children have had their lives marred in the beginning, even though it might be sometimes by circumstances over which parents or guardians had no control. Much illness and many accidents, however, may be averted by fore-knowledge and wise care: And so the little one may have his life well begun and happily influenced by escaping many of the unhappy experiences so apt to occur in childhood. The wise physician, as well as the thoughtful mother or careful nurse, does everything possible to prevent sickness, and in case of epidemics of disease, to limit the contagion as much as possible. Recent years have shown wonderful advancement in medical knowledge and in surgical skill; but in no direction has greater gain been manifest than in the prevention of disease. Moreover, the knowledge is being spread earnestly and industriously to the remotest corners of civilization. Not only do professional people ? the men and women who are physicians and GUIDE LESSONS. 339 nurses ? interest themselves in this matter, but also philanthropic people who are not trained professionally, but who perhaps by study, association, or experience have gained useful knowledge which they are glad to impart. Institutes or schools for research work have been founded by some of those men of wealth who at heart are humanitarians. The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, in New York City, was established for the complete investigation of the nature and causes of human disease and methods of its prevention and treatment. Also to establish a department of animal pathology to improve the health of poultry, cattle, and other farm animals. These institutions cost money, Mr. John D. Rockefeller having given $12,500,000. exclusion of the building and the grounds. "Some of the practical achievements of this institute are the discovery of the serum treatment of epidemic meningitis; the discovery of the cause and mode of infection of infantile paralysis; the surgery of blood vessels, through which transfusion of blood has become a daily life-saving expedient; the safer methods of administering anaesthetics, and the cultivation of the parasite of rabies." With the increased knowledge of childhood's needs, and the solicitous care accorded the infant, it is no wonder that the death rate among children has so greatly decreased. A few statistics will readily show the great difference between the present death rate and that of past times. Reliable statistics may be obtained from recent hooks, pamphlets, or magazine articles, of which so many are now published. Public talks on the care of children, given bv reliable physicians and nurses, are very helpful and much to be recommended. However, there are general facts, easily learned, with which every mother should be familiar, and which may safely be put into practice. First, every one should realize that the tenderest age in the life of the child, and in some respects, the most important time, is the first two years. An authority on diseases of children, makes the statement, that "functional derangements and organic disease are more common, and the mortality greater between the ages of six months and two years, than at any other period of childhood." Heredity may have much to do with the ill health of a child, but strong hereditary tendencies may be overcome by intelligent feeding, healthful surroundings, and careful training. With this in view, stations have been established in most large cities, where pure milk is supplied to babies who are in need and instructions as to feeding. Sanitary conditions are looked after by boards of health. The results are that many precious baby lives are saved. 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Greatest care should be taken to maintain or establish good health, that the so-called diseases of childhood may not have fatal results or harmful effects. It often happens that children of high-grade, mental, and nervous temperament seem peculiarly susceptible to disease, and require tenderest care. The diseases common to childhood, to be dreaded, are measles, whooping-cough, and scarlet fever. The last is most to be feared, because it is so highly and subtly contagious, and the occasional effects so direful. Many splendid children have lost their sight and their hearing, and thus have become deaf mutes, as a result of scarlet fever. Any of the diseases mentioned, when they do not prove fatal, may leave bad results that hamper the victim through life. The wisdom of quarantine regulations is manifest, and any member of the community should be heart and soul in aiding the enforcement of the quarantine rules. Where children have been exposed to contagion, their general health should be guarded more carefully than ever, and when symptoms of serious illness appear, there is wisdom in calling a physician early. QUESTIONS. What would be some of the results of the human family of increased health and lengthened life? Name some of the advantages of passing through childhood in health. How may accidents or illness be averted? What is one of the main objects of the wise physician, mother, or nurse? Name some of the ways in which medical science has advanced? How is knowledge of health principles extended? Tell what you can about the Rockefeller Institute? What would you say about public health talks? What is the tenderest age in child life? What about heredity in children? Of what benefit are milk stations? Have you any in your district? Do you need any? Name some childhood diseases likelv to leave bad results. Can anything be done to prevent? What do you think about quarantine regulations? What about giving early treatment in sickness? GUIDE LESSONS. 341 Lesson IV? A Few Facts Every Mother Should Know. How to keep the baby well nourishe mother. but not permit overfeeding should the understood by every Over-feeding or improper food bring on intestinal troubles more readily than any other causes. When intestinal sickness occurs, the food supply should be immediately stopped until the trouble is better. Sterile water may be freely given? cold, unless there is nausea (vomiting), and m that case, the water should be given hot. A flannel bandage wrapped around the abdomen is beneficial in bowel trouble, because it helps to keep the skin at an even temperature. Babies should be kept clean and sweet? it seems wrong to the infant to have it otherwise. It is a blessing to the mother of today that clothing? simple and plain, and planned for comfort? is the correct thing. The temperature of the child should be equable, avoiding extremes of heat or cold ? both are injurious. It is a good rule to keep the feet warm and the head cool. When babies are nursed regularly, there is little danger of colic or bowel trouble. After six months babies rarely need night nursing. . Do not let the babies be exposed to draughts. It is very careless and even reprehensible to take baby from his warm bed and carry him rapidly through cooler air, without protection from air currents. The sudden change has been known to bring on serious lung trouble. Nothing is better for baby than plenty of fresh air, summer and winter, but the child should be properly dressed for the prevailing temperature. Children's eyes should be protected from glaring lights, either artificial or natural. We all have seen babies with nothing but tiny bonnets or caps on their heads, facing strong sunlight, with no protection whatever for the eyes. In very first baths, a baby should be handled by a skilled nurse, and the water should be of the right temperature. Infants have been known to receive a shock in some manner that gives them an unconquerable aversion to bathing. While it is the duty of the mother to keep her baby clean, even so good a thing as bathing may be overdone. There are times when a sleep would be better than a bath, and the mother needs wisdom to decide. Above all things, children should be protected from nervous shock. Sudden or loud noises, rough handling or tossing, being kept awake, when they should be sleeping, all these things tend to lower the vitality and harm the nervous system and the injury might be permanent. 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. When children have fever, it is soothing, comforting, and coolng to sponge them with soft cloths, wrung out of cool or tepid water. Bathing the wrists or wrapping them in a wet, cool, cloth, quickly reduces the temperature, because on the wrists there are arteries so near the surface. In case of accident where there are severe bruises or broken bones, wring cloths out of water as hot as the hands can bear, and lay over the injury, while awaiting the arrival of the physician. That treatment allays pain and reduces swelling. If, in the same way, a child should get cut, and the blood comes out in spurts instead of a steady flow, it shows that an artery has been cut. Pressure should immediately be placed between the injury and the heart, and a very tight bandage applied until skilled attention can be given. It may save a life by keeping one from bleeding to death. A mother who has become overheated through overwork or fast walking should take a good drink of water before nursing her babe. ? QUESTIONS. What can you say about the feeding and overfeeding of babies? What about food and also about water in cases of intestinal trouble? What about changing temperatures for baby? What about fresh air for baby? What about caring for babies' eyes? What about babies' baths? Do children sometimes needlessly receive permanent injuries to their nervous systems? How? How may children be soothed in fever? What would you do in case of bruises or broken bones? What would you do if an artery were cut? Elizabeth S. Wilcox. An arrangement which makes it possible to clean the outside of upper-story windows without serious inconvenience or danger, conists of a metal grip which holds an absorbent cloth at the end of a handle and on its top side carries a rubber squeegee. Notes from the Field. President Joseph F. Smith, and wife, Counselor Jiihna L. Smith and Bishop Nibley and wife, Rebecca Niebaur Nibley, left this city five weeks ago, to visit Hawaii. They met Senator Smoot and wife in Honolulu. These sisters all visited with the Relief Society in Honolulu, Laie and Waikai. The Hawaiian sisters in this distant country are working hard in their regular Relief Society duties. They are delighted with our new Magazine, and as one result, they have put their gardening lessons to such good account, that the Primary and Relief Society have planted out lovely and fragrant beds of brilliant tropical flowers around the Mission House. The lawn is dotted with these garden plats. Sister Smith made a special point of encouraging the sisters to hunt out their genealogies, each trying to secure the largest list of names from month to month. While there. Elder Peter Kaealikaihonua died, and was robed in Elder Fernandez's temple suit for burial. The sisters felt impressed to replace that burial suit, while they were there, and singularly enough, the day after they left, Elder Fernandez himself died. When the President's party arrived at Portland, on their return journey, they found Sisters Emma A. Empy and Janette A. Hyde there. All remained for Stake and Relief Society Conference, and to dedicate the Portland Meetinghouse, and have just returned in excellent health and spirits. Welcome home. R. S. Nurse and Obstetric School. We are happy to announce that the General Board will continue the regular Nurse School, combining with it a thorough course in Obstetrics. We are anxious to bring this important branch of our Relief Society service up to the highest standard of efficiency, so that our young mothers everywhere can feel to place themselves safely and securely in the hands of our graduated obstetricians. This seems to be the natural and pleasing custom of the ancient peoples, and it is also the solution of one phase of the heavy expense attendant on parenthood, in this luxurious age. The school will open in September. We would like to encourage each ward president to send at least one candidate to take this course. Particulars will be furnished on application to the General Secretary. Don't Throw the Old Mesh Bag Away No matter how badly it is worn we can put it in shape just as good as new. Send it in we give you the cost of repairs first. McCONAHAY The JEWELER 64 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Questions for the September art lesson will appear in our August number. All active members and art supervisors should send to us for the art reference book Devotees and Their Shrines $1.25 POSTPAID THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" City Bank Connections Means Much to Out"Mutual Made" of-Town People Most out-of-town people have city transactions. The BUTTERS services of a bank are ofttimes needed. Establish relations Two brands: "Blanchard" and with this bank and be pre"Four-in-One." They're as supared. Four per cent interest perior to the "usual run" of butpaid on savings deposits. Next ters as cream is to milk. You'll time you are in town come in bear us out in this when you and see us. We want to know commence using them. you. "The Bank with a Personality" Merchants Bank MUTUAL CREAMERY Capital, $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House. COMPANY John Pingree, Prest.; Chas. E. 11 Creameries in 7 States. Kaiser, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Authorized Capital, $3,000,000. Cashier. Cor. Main and 3rd Annual Butter Output, 8,000,000 So., Salt Lake City, Utah. pounds The purpose of this Bank is at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Supplies for Temple Uses Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. SUMMER EXCURSIONS VIA The following rates apply from Salt Lake City EAST WEST Denver.. $22.50 Portland $37.00 Colorado Springs 22.50 Seattle 44.50 Omaha 40.00 Tacoma 42.80 Kansas City 40.00 San Francisco, via Ogden 35.00 St. Louis 51.20 do. one way via Los Memphis 59.85 Angeles 35.00 Chicago 56.50 do. one way via Portland 53.50 Minneapolis 53.85 Los Angeles, via So. Pacific... 40.00 do. one way via Portland 62.50 do. one way via Salt Correspondingly low rates to many Lake Route... 35.00 other points. Side trip rate Los Angeles to San Diego and return via rail $5.00, and via steamer $4.00, in connection with circuit tour tickets. Tickets on sale daily to November SALE DATES ? May 15, 19, 22, 26, 30, 1915, inclusive. 29; June 2, 5, 9, 12, 16, 19, 23, 26 and LIMIT, three months from date of 30; July 7, 14, 21, 28; August 4, 11, 18, sale, but not to exceed December 31, 25; September 1, 8, 15. 1915. LIMIT ? October 31. NORTH Excursions to northern Utah and STOPOVERS Idaho points, May 22; June 5, 19; July 2, 3, 17, 23, 24, 31; August 14, 28; DIVERSE ROUTES September 11, 25. Proportionately low rates from other O. S. L. stations. See agents. CITY TICKET OFFICE, HOTEL UTAH UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. 