Vol. II NOVEMBER, 1915 No. 11 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Special Home Number ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY CHARLTON'S Exclusive and correct styles in Women's Wear. Suits in Newest Cloth and Silk Materials, Latest Modes in Gowns and Blouses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent, on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET at reasonable Prices GOODWIN CORSETS NOW READY! A new 800 page volume "JESUS THE CHRIST" By DR. JAMES TALMAGE From the Press of The Deseret News This is the work of which notice has been given in the Official Announcement published by the First Presidency of the Church. It presents the Life and Mission of the Messiah from the view-point of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Bound in half leather, cloth sides, $1.50 post paid Deseret News Book Store The Leading Book Concern When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction The Thomas Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assistant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A. SALT LAKE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
CONTENTS. NOVEMBER, 1915. 
The Relief Society Woman and Her Home 477
A Modern Thanksgiving Lily 482
Thanksgiving Day in the Hospital Ida Stewart Peay 483
His Wife's Talents Elsie Chamberlain Carroll 486
The Word of Wisdom Patriarch Hyrum Smith 490
The Prince of Ur Homespun 493
Current Topics James H. Anderson 502
Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman 504
In the Kitchen Laboratory Hazel Love Dunford 509
Editorial 512
Guide Lessons 514

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY.
Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist.

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Logan Utah
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Vermont Building Salt Lake City
CUTLER'S 36 S. Main Street Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO. 45 S. Main Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 8 Main Street Salt Lake City
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO. 55 Main 260 State Sts. Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY THE JEWELER 64 Main Street Salt Lake City
MARIAN BANKS Millinery and CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO. 242 South Main Salt Lake City
MERCHANTS' BANK Third South and Main St. Salt Lake City
MUTUAL CREAMERY COMPANY Salt Lake
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
PORTER-WALTON CO. Seedmen Nurserymen and Florists Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES Beehive House Salt Lake City
SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS 251-259 E. First South Street Salt Lake City
SUPPLIES FOR TEMPLE USES
THOMAS Photographer
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Salt Lake City
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. 8 South Main Salt Lake City
Z. C. M. I. Salt Lake City

SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING

THE COMMITTEE OF RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING AND PUBLIC HEALTH WORK
announces the opening of the
TWELFTH RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
on Monday September 20th 1915
under the direction of the General Board of Relief Society.
School term eight months.

Course A — Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics which includes nursing and invalid cooking — $50.00.
Course B — Entrance fee for course in Nursing which includes invalid cooking — $25.00.
Course C — Lectures on Public Health Prevention and Treatment of Diseases etc. No charge.
Course D — A class in Invalid Cooking conducted by experts; no extra charge.

Instructor DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS.

Dr Roberts has successfully conducted the School of Nurses nine school years graduating over 300 Relief Society nurses. Her graduates in Obstetrics have invariably passed examinations before the Utah State Medical Board.

For further information write to
Elizabeth S. Wilcox
Relief Society Headquarters
Bishop's Building Salt Lake City

PRISCILLA P. JENNINGS Chairman

Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company
The women of the Relief Society have the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by paying a small monthly amount. Your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children.

Relief Society Headquarters or
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Vermont Building Salt Lake City Utah

Established 1860 — Incorporated 1906
S. M. TAYLOR & CO. Undertakers and Embalmers
SUCCESSORS TO Joseph E. Taylor
The Pioneer Undertaker of the West
53 Years in One Location
251-257 E. First South Street Salt Lake City Utah
Efficient Service — Modern Methods — Complete Equipment

The purpose of this Bank is to render helpful service and make your banking business satisfactory and pleasant.
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK
Your Account is Cordially Invited
JOSEPH F. SMITH Pres. THE CHILDREN'S BED. By Eleanor Schouk Dear little bed, oh, holy little bed! Around thee surely guardian angels tread. To thee our darlings come at close of day, Tired and flushed from romp and childish play. In reverence sincere, each golden head Is bowed in prayer beside thee, little bed. Oh little bed, thou treasured little bed! Thy pillows soft, with dainty muslin spread, Bespeak not wealth, but show a mother's care. All clean and pure and sweet and fair — Where rosy childhood rests from trouble free — This sacred trust my Lord has given me. Loved little bed! Once when my heart was tried, When fever scorched the child I knelt beside — I was so young to give a mother's care; I cried to One above to hear my prayer, To give me health and strength to nurse my son; To help me say, "Thy will, not mine, be done." I stood again beside thee, little bed, Feeling, that were my child alive or dead He still would progress, still my son would be, Throughout all time and all eternity. And so, with humbled heart and chastened soul, I did my best, nor once lost self-control. What gift more choice could Heavenly Father give Than son and daughter in our home to live? Created in his image, by his love! O, that a heavenly light may ever shed Its radiance around thee, little bed. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. NOVEMBER, 1915. Vol. II. NOVEMBER, 1915. No. 11 The Relief Society Woman and Her Home. So much of prose and poetry has been written about the home that one wonders what is left to say. Very little. Yet there is much for women to do daily and hourly in order to create, maintain, and develop the home. Today, more than at any other period in the world's history, there is a determined effort to break down the barriers of the home. This is not altogether the fault of the deliberate childlessness of the wife, the club attractions for both husband and wife, nor to the increasing popularity of the cosy flat in the forest of apartments which every great city multiplies. These are all but manifestations of a disintegrating force within the body social. However this may be, our Relief Society sisters are the keepers of the keys of home life and home traditions among this people, and eventually in the world; so that it behooves them to exert themselves to do all possible in this matter of bettering home conditions, and keeping the fires bright on the home altars. We are pleased to offer our associate workers the outlines in home economics. Our aim is to make the courses so simple and comprehensive that any one of our members may be able to give the lessons and also to assist in the demonstrations. Our home studies will cover a period of three years. The first period will take up Home Management, the second the Food Problem, and the third The House Itself. The first year's work will concern itself with Household Management. All of these topics will be accompanied by practical demonstration work on grains, vegetables, meats, yeast, condiments and preservatives; together with a little home preparation and experiment on food. This will prepare the way for the second year's course We can assure our friends that all will enjoy this course and 478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the homes of the sisters will benefit greatly by this extended inquiry into the whys and wherefores of our domestic problems. Home-building, home-making, and home-keeping are the highest and most beautiful professions in the world. Let us help to maintain the high standard and ideal we have always had, at the same time improving the practical and scientific side of our work, as these modern studies permit us to do. In this home-coming, home-loving, thanks-giving month of November, we are happy to present our friends with these new home thoughts and plans for our beloved homes in Zion. THE KITCHEN OF THE HOTEL UTAH. All of our readers know the advantages and the disadvantages of the individual kitchen in the individual home. Yet few have ever peeped into the airy vastness of a modern palatial hotel, with its army of servants and its staff of rigidly-trained chefs, stewards major domos, and captains of kitchen industry; its arching walls of translucent white tiling, its long expanse of porcelain tables and glistening white sinks, and silver water faucets; its thousands of lovely porcelain dishes, and baskets of gleaming silverware; its array of spotless kitchen utensils, its shining pure white expanse of floors, and its electrical lighting and modern ventilation. The linen closets, where piles on piles of snowy napery and delicate table linens are stored. There are the store rooms, where supplies are gathered in tons and barrels, and bales, to be distributed with greatest care and diligence. Nowhere in the world can so many thousands of shovelfuls be thrown out with teaspoons as in the mammoth kitchens of the modern hostelries. The manager of the Hotel Utah ? Mr. George O. Relf ? a cultured, genial, and shrewd American of the best type, came to Utah with the settled determination to make of this superb hotel the cleanest, best served, most popular hotel in the West, while putting a few gilt edges of economy on the capital there invested. With this end in view, he made the kitchen and its complete and perfect service the unit of the hotel. The results have over and over demonstrated the wisdom of his decision. A house or a hotel may be palatial, or it may be bare of all but necessities; yet, if the daily board within is spread with wholesome food, well cooked and pleasingly served, one man or all men will return to it day after day, calling it his haven and his and their best abiding place. Mr. Relf raises all the vegetables on his own farm, provides the milk and cream, puts up the delicious pickles and relishes, and even supplies the succulent watercress which garnishes the tables. The kitchens of the Hotel Utah are the last word in spotless purity of equipment, up-to-date appointments, and luxurious furnishings. One may gather some idea of the scope and quality of the service from the following descriptions: RELIEF SOCIETY WOMAN AND HER HOME. 479 It is interesting to know that all of the tiled kitchen and pantry floors slope into drains to carry off water when they are flooded, as they frequently are, for hygienic purposes. The tiled walls are as frequently washed, so that they shine with cleanliness. There is an automatic dish-washer, separate refrigerators for fowl, fish, meats, vegetables, and for eggs, cheese and butter. There is also a refrigerator for cooling cold-service foods. Then there are the steam heated racks for plates and hot dishes, another heater for keeping rolls hot and soft. There is an automatic egg boiler, and an ice plant, which manufactures all ices and candies. There is a bakery with two great ovens, and all the bread, rolls, and cakes used are made in the hotel kitchen. There are about 50 loaves and 1,500 rolls used daily. In the supply rooms for groceries, the storeroom steward has charge, but he must give a voucher for everything received and disbursed. And when you know that there is from $18,000 to $20,000 a month spent for food alone, in this great kitchen, you can realize how important the steward's position is. There is some importation of fancy vegetables and meats from the east, but the steward reports that the Utah fruits and vegetables surpass any found in other parts of the country. There is an official with the title of jardemanger who has charge of all garnishes, and when you go into the hotel and find yourself served with carrots cut into roses, and turnips into lilies, you know that this clever artist has looked after all that work. In the Silver Room, another head steward takes charge of the $40,000 worth of silver. He is a silver-smith, and an expert in his business; he cleans, polishes, and carefully preserves all of his precious ware. It is the best of silver, and nearest the Hepplewhite ever designed. A curious little item connected with the silver steward is that he is obliged to replace a great deal of this ware, which is both bought and stolen for souvenirs. Honest tourists are willing to pay well for this delightful souvenir of a visit to Salt Lake, while the dishonest ones take them at the rate of dozens of spoons monthly. Five dozen were taken within the last month from this mammoth hotel. There are $20,000 invested in china. There is a $2,500 gold service set in the china closet, which is used for state occasions. The Roof Garden Restaurant has been exceedingly popular. Forty thousand dollars was spent to put this popular resort into shape. The item of flowers alone for the decoration cost $3,400. This restaurant seats over 600 people, and yet through the hot summer months, after the theatres are out, many are daily turned away. There is an auxiliary kitchen up there, which enables them to serve everything piping hot. In the kitchen below, a little item which is interesting to note, is that the shelves for receiving used dishes, are so arranged that the person distributing them moves in a circle, thereby avoiding congestion, and facilitating distribution. These dishes are distributed by the bus boys, who take them from the waiters. There is a special room for making salad. Here a woman is in charge who has two assistants. There is a special room for making garnishes. The ranges are seventy-five feet long, and all of them burn charcoal. There are aluminum buckets in steam racks, which are used for keeping the cooked vegetables hot, while the head steward has a special room in which he arranges table decorations for parties and banquets. The head chef devises most of the new dishes, and all are made under his especial supervision. There are one hundred ten servants employed in the kitchens and dining rooms; two head chefs with four assistants, and head stewards for every department. There are 525 bed-rooms. There are from 500 to 600 people in the hotel every day during the summer months. In the winter, the average would be 400 each day, while the capacity is 650 guests, some of them occupying double rooms. Thus it will be seen that housekeeping in a hotel is as complex and as exacting as the managing of a steel mill or the financing of a wholesale dry goods establishment. No wonder that men with their supreme physical forces and masculine grasp of great problems are chosen to control and direct such gigantic enterprises. A Modern Thanksgiving. (With apologies to Walt Mason.) By Lily. The girls are coming home, Jake, And I can hardly wait To see their dear, sweet faces Coming through the garden gate. There's Dora, with her white hair, And May with little Joe; There's Leah with her Doctor, And Lucy with her beau. The turkey's in the cellar, And the jelly's on the shelf, The mince meat's mellowing softly, While the cider works itself. The pumpkin pie's forthcoming, The doughnuts swim in oil, The pudding bursts with richness, The kettle's "on the boil." But what on earth to do, Jake, With these women folks of yours, Is more than I can tell, Jake, For they're all on diet cures. There's Dora wants but stale bread, And Mabel drinks skim milk; While Leah chews her food till 'Tis soft as softest silk. And Lucy's getting fat, so She wants no oils nor sweets; And their children have been starved with The most hygienic "eats." There's only you and John left To eat the sumptuous spread, For all the rest will look on while They munch a crust of bread. This happy home thanksgiving Is a sentimental day; But what if none observe it In the good old-fashioned way! My turkey and my puddings Will be given to the poor; While the scanty remnants of the feast Remain within my door. But the girls are coming home, Jake, And I can hardly wait To see their dear, sweet faces Coming through the garden gate. Thanksgiving Day in the Hospital. By Ida Stewart Peay. In her narrow white bed at the big hospital, Evelyn was crying bitterly. Since she had been brought into the ward early that morning she had turned her face uncompromisingly toward the wall, and abandoned herself to the full measure of her misery. At sight of her heaving shoulders, the half dozen other women in the room exchanged concerned, curious glances, for in this great house people are ? well, sort of on their mettle, ? unless something unusual, even for a hospital, is wrong, emotion is choked back, all try to maintain a brave countenance; so they began to speculate in pitying whispers. Evelyn was entirely unaware of their existence. With the indifference born of supreme moment, she sobbed aloud her despair. What had she done, she wailed to herself, in angry protest, that she should be shut up in this horrid prison, chained to the bed, racked with pain, starved and forgotten ? while all her family, neighbors and friends, were enjoying themselves to their hearts' content. They had no distracting pain, they could eat anything they wished ? were, perhaps, at that very moment, sitting down to the big turkey dinner and chattering over what entertainment they were to have in the evening. At the thought she groaned and sobbed afresh ? her lot was almost harder than she could bear. And this was Thanksgiving Day! Thanksgiving Day, indeed! In the past, she had spent many pleasant Thanksgiving days (though she had not always thought them so at the time), but today she certainly had nothing in the world for which to be thankful. From the bottom of her heavy heart, Evelyn pitied herself and thought herself the most abused person in the world. The nurse ran in several times with a cheery word, but Evelyn would not be cheered. Her family and friends came with flowers and words of encouragement: Evelyn refused to be encouraged. She accused them of belittling her suffering. She declared they would talk differently if they had a taste of her portion. They all claimed, defensively, to have been, at times, very ill. But Evelyn could not believe that any one had ever been quite so sick as she was; and so, as the day wore on, she wore away her nerves and temper. Finally, when her visitors had all departed, when, too, her tears were spent, she settled into a tragic calm, continuing to stare ? now stony-eyed ? at the white walls. In this quietness a few sounds bore in upon her consciousness: sounds of women's voices 484 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in subdued conversation. O, yes, of course, there were other sick people, she confessed to herself, but they were not ? that is, they couldn't possibly be, ? as miserable as she was. She experienced an indifferent desire to turn and look at the other occupants of the room, and did at last, like a child won for a moment from a tantrum, give a casual glance over her shoulder. Her attention was at once caught and held by a soft, merry little laugh from the woman next to her who was chatting with a patient further on. With childish curiosity, Evelyn turned slowly over and took a square look at her next neighbor. And when she had taken in all the details of that never-to-be-forgotten picture, her blood fairly staggered in her veins. She beheld a sweet, kindly-faced, little woman strapped, literally strapped, in a perfectly prostrate position, to a board, with her arms confined to the elbows, and a small mirror swung before her to assist her in eating and seeing about. At Evelyn's sociable movement, the small invalid turned her head ever so slightly (which was as far as it could be moved), and the eyes of the two women met. Evelyn's betrayed amazement and horror. "We've been so sorry for you," murmured the woman, sympathetically inviting conversation. "Hope you're feeling better this afternoon." Evelyn's mind went quickly over her actions that morning, and a feeling of shame colored her pretty face pink. "I ? a ? thought ? yes, I'm ? a ? better;" she stammered confusedly, continuing to stare, fascinated, at the chilling sight. "You've been suffering awfully?" went on the stricken lady kindly, questioningly. "Yes ? er ? I? a ? thought I was ? it was appendicitis," faltered the girl almost too abashed, in the presence of this great calamity, to utter the words. "Oh, and those pains are so hard to bear." "Have you had that operation?" asked Evelyn with quick interest. "Some time ago ? yes," said the lady, "but I have not forgotten the pains." "They must not be as bad as ? as bad as ? " Evelyn stopped in embarrassment, her eyes indicating the board and straps. "No," slowly, with a brave little smile, "but they are bad enough," she ended, unwilling to depreciate Evelyn's ills. At that moment the nurse came and asked each patient how she had enjoyed Thanksgiving Day. Evelyn was amazed when she heard her next neighbor cry out gaily, "O it has been a glorious day, I never was so happy in all my life. I've been laughing all day," and she laughed again the THANKSGIVING DAY IN THE HOSPITAL. 485 gleeful laugh that had first won Evelyn from her heavy cross and now caused her to ask impulsively, "What in the world have you been laughing at?" The frail woman turned her head slowly toward Evelyn, her face glowing with a genuine, happy smile. "Why, you see," she explained, "I've only four months more to be strapped to this board ? " Evelyn gasped audibly, but her new acquaintance continued? "I've been on here eight months today. The doctor said if I would permit myself to be strapped to this board one year I would be able to walk. Now, just think, eight months have passed. Only four months more ? then I can walk and go home ? I get so homesick sometimes ? " her eyes grew suddenly misty, then in a moment she was gay again ? "but, oh, four months will soon pass, and then I'll be home. Isn't that something to be thankful for?" She turned smiling eyes toward Evelyn at the question. "I ? a ? suppose," murmured the girl in a shaky voice. When Evelyn's family came again that evening they cried out joyfully, "Why, you're lots better, dear, aren't you?" "Yes, I'm better," she whispered tearfully, "I'm all right, and I'll be home in a week and, oh"; she sobbed, "every Thanksgiving Day, and, indeed, every day of my life, from now on, I'm going to be thankful, oh, so very thankful, that I am not strapped to a board." His Wife's Talents. Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. (concluded.) "Now, my dear, so that you will be absolutely free from all worry and responsibility, I called in at Aunt Betsey's and told her of my plan and asked her if you couldn't come down there to practice for a time or two until you sort of get at yourself. She was tickled to death at the idea, so put on your hat and leave the fort to me." Kate accepted the additional change without a murmur and left him with a merry goodbye. "Stay just as long as you want to and don't worry," he called after her. "Now, kiddies," he said cheerfully, turning to the three older members of his brood (the baby was asleep) "you can just have a jolly time this afternoon playing here by father while he works." He placed his books on the dining-room table and unrolled the blanks. "Let's play wild bear," suggested one of the twins and the game was on. "Why, what's all this noise about?" demanded the father as he returned from another room a moment later where he had been looking for a dictionary. "We're playing wild bear," Barrel explained, as with a growl he rushed across the room upsetting Kathryn and her doll and bumping his own head on the table legs. When calm was gained after this first disaster the father suggested that they had better turn it into "tame bear." "All right, we'll play circus," they cried and immediately proceeded to make cages by turning chairs upside down, and improvised tents for rugs and couch covers. "I don't want to play circus," said Kathryn. "I want to sew for my dolly," and she began rummaging in her mother's workbasket to find needle, scissors and thread. Presently she held up a very fine needle and number eight thread and demanded that her father thread it for her. "Why, Kathryn, can't you thread your own needles yet? I should think your mother would teach you children a little more independence." He wrestled for five minutes with the task pricking his fingers a half dozen times and swearing as many times under his breath, then he snatched the work basket and turned it upside down on the table to find a darning needle. "Now, sister," he admonished as he handed her the threaded darning needle, "You must not bother me any more. I must get at my work." By this time the circus parade was coming up the main street HIS WIFE'S TALENTS. 487 of the village. A weird shriek from the calliope brought an answering shriek from the baby in the next room. "Now look here, boys, I can't have all this racket. You've waked the baby up already. Go into the kitchen and play and maybe he'll go to sleep again." The circus moved into the kitchen, that is the active part of it, though the tents and cages were left where they were. The baby was not to be so easily pacified, however. Frank brought him in and dumped him on the couch. He had just started to write. The baby was not used to such unceremonious treatment and set up a protest. The father looked at him witheringly. "Well, sir, you're up. What more do you want?" A louder cry was the little fellow's reply. Then Frank remembered that Kate had told him the baby must have something to eat when he awoke. This reminded him of a bag of chocolates he had brought as a treat for the youngsters. He fished them out of his pocket and emptied them into the baby's lap. For a little time there was quiet, but somehow he could not recall that elusive sentence again. He sat scratching his head when Kathryn informed him that she needed some cloth to make her dolly a new bonnet because the old one got spoiled in the ditch yesterday. "O, go away, child. Find some cloth yourself. I must work." The little girl looked in a place or two, then suddenly decided that the brown and green of the sofa pillow beside brother would make a lovely bonnet. It took her some time to haggle a piece out for she was cutting not only through the cover but through the pillow as well Soon baby began to laugh and crow and pull feathers from the hole in the pillow. The father had just got started on his work when a pitiful yowl came from the kitchen. He rushed to the kitchen to find the twins dancing up and down before the range. The cries of distress came from the oven. "What in thunder are you doing?" he demanded as he released poor tabby. "We're playing Hansel and Grettel and tabby is the wicked witch woman." "Well, can't ou think of anything but mischief? Go out on the lawn and run races." When the father returned to the dining room his attention was drawn to the baby. The chocolate had been daubed in an uneven coat over the little fellow's face and hands and feathers were sticking out in every direction. The suggestive tar and feather picture would have brought a smile to most any face, but the poor man into a chair and groaned "What next?" sank The next was the telephone. 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Hello, Ashton." came tHe voice over the wire.  "This is George Harding. T haven't seen you since the old days at Harvard and as I was passing through your town thought I'd stop ofif a few hours and pay you a little visit. T understand you are a family man. I am anxious to see the wife and young Gladstones as well. Are you Busy? If you're not I'll come right up. That will beat an office visit all to pieces." Frank clenched the receiver and cast one wild glance over the room. "Hold on a minute. George." he shouted. "I ? I will be down to the office right away I have a little work to do there then I'll. bring you up to supper." He slammed the receiver on the hook and looked at his watch. Surely Kate would soon be home. Why his watch must be stopPed, it was only a quarter to four. He shook it and glanced at the clock which confirmed the statement of his ticker. Good heavens had it only been three quarters of an hour since Kate left? And he had told her to stay as long as she wanted to tell the twins seemed to be having a good time, judging from the frequent shouts of merriment that came to his ears. He simply must get that document done, so he sat down in sheer desperation and began to write. Presently Kathryn stuck her needle in her finger and began to cry. The baby, who by this time was a full-fledged robin, felt rather uncomfortable and began to cry also. The father demanded that they hush, but this only seemed to increase their lung power. Slamming his books shut he got up and began to pace the floor. there didn't Why all dav. Kate come. She ought to know that he couldn't stay Tile telephone rang again. Amid the cries of the two children the father caught these words, "Is this Mr. Ashton? Well, sir, this is police headquarters. I wonder if you are aware that two of your children are interferring with public passage l:)y turning the hose onto every one who passes your place?" "Good Lord, no!" thundered.Ashton, and leaving the receiver dangling, he rushed from the house just in time to see the corpulent form of Mr. Bunker, president of the local railroad company, side step into t1ie middle of the street to the delighted shrieks of the twins, who lifted the home and showerer him a second time before their irate father could think about an adequate punishment. No doubt the thought of the Bunker bill that was coming up in court, and which Ashton and McGregor had hoped to defend, added to the vigor of the shake received by each surprised culprit as he was hustled into the house, one of them being shoved into each bed room until the father could think out an adequate punishment. Their lusty howl joined the duet already in progress. Just then Kate came up the walk, wondering at the drench ! HIS WIFE'S TALENTS. 489 path and porch. Hearing the quartet of sounds within she quickened her steps. Frank saw her coming and met her at the door, hat in hand. "I haven't been able to do a confounded thing," he informed her in a tone that somehow suggested that his wife was to blame. "I've got to get this document fixed up tonight." He brushed past as he  but her, to add. Turned toward rushed street. Harding will be here to supper," the "George Kate went in. The medley of sounds, and the chaos of the room told their own story. A little breeze sent the feathers flying in every direction. She looked at the baby who was holding out his little feathered arms. She didn't know whether to laugh or cry, so she sat down and did a little of both. Kathryn ran to the shelter of mother's skirts. Two doors opened simultaneously and two wet toweled heads peeped out. In a moment she had them all gathered in her arms and the afternoon's tragedy was turned into a comedy. Soon, with the help of the willing little hands that had made all the confusion, order was brought out of chaos and Kate began to hum softly as she planned the evening meal. Her music really did not matter so much to life's happiness after all. And the consoling thought came to her that perhaps her husband had learned that a woman's greatest talent does not lie in the field of fine arts, but in the higher field of real home making. That evening after the children had been put to bed and their guest had gone, Frank Ashton looked at his wife as if he had never really seen her before. "Kate, how on earth do you do it?"' he broke out with a genuine admiration in his eyes. "Do what?" she laughed. "Why. manage this? house and those children. Another afternoon like this one would land me in the insane asylum." "I soled. think they must have been extra trying today," she consoled "Well, I haven't given up mv plan for your music, anyhow," was his next surprising statement. "You certainly deserve that much, and you are going to have it. You know how cousin Elizabeth feels about my fixing up that mortgage for her? She's always wishing there was some way in which she could sort of pay us. Well, I called around there tonight and told her she could send her Bessie over every afternoon to take the children to the park for an hour or two while you practice. And you will never hear me again, my dear, lamenting the fact that women give up their talents and ambitions when they are married. Law, if they didn't what would become of us poor, selfish men?" (the end) The Word of Wisdom. Extracts from a Discourse by Patriarch Hyrum Smith From "Times and Seasons," Vol. III. When God first made man upon the earth, he was a different being entirely to what he now is. His body was strong, athletic, robust, and healthy; his days were prolonged upon the earth; he lived nearly one thousand years; his mind was vigorous and active, and his intellectual faculties clear and comprehensive. But he has become degenerated; his life has dwindled to a span; disease preys upon his system; his body is enervated and feeble, and his mental and intellectual faculties are impaired and weakened. Man is not now that dignified, noble, majestic, honorable and mighty being that he was when he first proceeded from the hands of his Maker. The Lord has in his wise designs revealed to us his will. He has made known to us his future purposes. He has told us as did his ancient prophets that the earth shall be redeemed ? that the curse shall be removed from it? that the wolf and the lamb shall lie down together ? that the lion shall eat straw like the ox ? and that they shall not hurt or destroy ? that the knowledge of the Lord shall cover the earth as the waters cover the sea ? that man's days shall be as the days of a tree, that he shall live one thousand years on the earth. This is the time of restoration of all things and it has got to be brought about by the wisdom and power of God, and the wisdom, obedience and faith of man combined. Everything has become degenerated from what it was in its primitive state. God made man pure, but he has found out many inventions: his vices have become innumerable and his diseases multiplied. His taste has become vitiated and his judgment impaired. He has fallen ? fallen ? fallen from that dignified state that he once occupied on the earth, and it needs a restorative that man has not in his possession, wisdom which is beyond the reach of human intellect, the power which human philosophy, talent and ingenuity cannot control. God only is acquainted with the fountain of action and the mainsprings of human events. He knows where disease is seated and what is the cause of it. He is also acquainted with the springs of health, the balm of Gilead ? of life. He knows what course to pursue to restore mankind to their pristine excellency and primitive vigor and health. He has appointed the Word of Wisdom as one of the engines to bring about this thing, to remove the beastly appetites, the murderous disposition and the vitiated taste of man; to restore his body to health and vigor, and promote peace between him and the brute creation. It is one of the little wheels in God's designs, to help to regulate the great machinery, which shall eventually revolutionize the earth and bring about the restoration of all things. THE WORD OF WISDOM. 491 The Lord has told us what is good for us to eat and to drink, and what is pernicious. But some of our wise philosophers and some of our elders too pay no regard to it; they think it too little, too foolish for wise men to regard. Fools! Where is their wisdom, philosophy and intelligence? From whence did they obtain their superior light? Their capacity and their power of reasoning was given them by the great Jehovah. If they have any wisdom they obtained it from him, and have grown so much wiser than God that they are going to instruct him in the path of duty, and tell him what is wise and what is foolish. They think it too small for him to condescend to tell men what will be nutritious or what will be unhealthful. Who made the corn, the wheat, the rye, and all the vegetable substances? And who was it that organized man and constituted him as he is found? Who made his stomach and his digestive organs and prepared proper nutriment for his system that the juices of his body might be supplied and his form be invigorated by the kind of food which the laws of nature and the laws of God have said would be good for man? And has God made his food and provided it for the use of man, and shall he be ashamed to speak of the work of his hands? Has he become so fantastical, so foolish, so weak and effeminate that it has become impolitic for him to tell what is the best distribution to make of the work of his hands? O shame! let it not be heard among the Saints. Let the man who inculcates such principles hide his face. We are told by some that circumstances alter the revelations of God! Tell me what circumstances would alter the ten commandments? They were given by revelation ? given as a law to the children of Israel. Who has a right to alter that law? Some think that they are too small for God to notice, and we have got so high, so bloated out that we cannot condescend to notice things that God has ordained for our benefit? or have we got so weak that we are not fit to be called Saints? for the Word of Wisdom is adapted to the capacity of all that are or can be called Saints. Listen not to the teachings of any man, or any elder who says the Word of Wisdom is of no moment, for such a man will eventually be overthrown. These are principles that I have always acted upon, that I have always practiced, and they are what my family practices. They are what Brother Hyrum has always contended for, and what I now contend for, and I know that nothing but an unwavering, undeviating course can save a man in the kingdom of God. The Lord has told us that strong drinks are not good. Who is it that will say they are, when the Lord says they are not? That man who says I can drink wine or strong drink and it will not hurt me is not wise. But some will say, 'I know that it did me good, for I was fatigued and feeble on a certain occasion and 492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. it revived me, and I was invigorated thereby and that is sufficient proof for me." It may be for you, but it would not be for a wise man, for every spirit of this kind will only produce a greater languor when its effects cease to operate upon the human body. But you know that you are benefitted. Yes; so does the man who has mortgaged his property know that he is relieved from his present embarrassments, but his temporary relief only binds the cords of bondage more severely around him. The Lord has not ordained strong drinks for the belly, but for the washing of the body. And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but as an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. Tobacco is a nauseous, stinking, abominable thing, and I am surprised that any human being shall think of using it. For an elder especially to eat or smoke it is a disgrace ? he is not fit for the office, he ought first to learn to keep the Word of Wisdom and then to teach others. God will not prosper the man who uses it. Again, hot drinks are not for the body or belly. There are many who wonder what this can mean, whether it refers to tea or coffee, or not. I say it does refer to tea and coffee. Why is it that we are so dull and languid? It is because we break the Word of Wisdom, disease preys upon our systems, our understandings are darkened and we do not comprehend the things of God; the devil takes advantage of us and we fall into temptation. Not only are they injurious in their tendency and baneful in their effects, but the importation of foreign products might be the means of thousands of our people being poisoned at a future time through the advantage that an enemy might take of us if we made use of these things that are spoken of as being evil. And be it remembered that this instruction is given "in consequence of evils that do exist in the hearts of conspiring men." Let men attend to these instructions; let them use the things ordained of God; let them be sparing of the life of animals. It is pleasing, saith the Lord, that flesh be used only in times of winter or times of famine. And why be used in times of famine? Because all domestic animals would naturally die and may as well be made use of by man as not. Let these things be adhered to; let the Saints be wise; so shall we be blessed of the great Jehovah in time and in eternity. We shall be healthy, strong and vigorous. We shall be enabled to resist disease, and wisdom will crown our councils, our progeny will become mighty and will rise up and call us blessed. The daughters of Zion will be beautiful, and her sons the joy of the whole earth. We shall prepare ourselves for the purposes of Jehovah, for the kingdom of God, for the appearance of Jesus in his glory; out of Zion the perfection of beauty. God will shine; Zion will be exalted and become the praise of the whole earth. The Prince of Ur By Homespun. What hoy, the call down came messages from the morning dawn, the cool breezes bearing swift and sweeping into the shady plain below, up to the very towers of the mighty city, rising hundreds of feet into the cloud-land above. Abram stood with his friends the Tarshish and Damascus merchants, watching the cavalcade now sweeping into sure vision under the huge brick walls of the palace and city. "It is surely Gilgames, Merodach, Nimrod," cried the merchants; "It is he the Shepherd of Uruk, the well-protected, the wise, the powerful, the perfect, he is its shepherd and its master." The vast army was panoplied and gorgeous in the rays of the rising sun. Following the great body of chariots and carts, a multitude of servants and attendants carrying various banners and burdens, richly caparisoned, and in its midst came a golden war chariot, richly appointed. He wore under his glittering armor the white robes of a priest, and as Abram looked intently at the brilliant figure that set grimly as he thought of the mockery of his father's conduct of the heavily-encrusted war-chariot of Nimrod. Then came the glittering, shining, commanding figure that his giant bodyguard seemed dwarfed in his presence. His curled hair and beard shone with riotous profusion. Half uncovered, they gleamed from side to side, they caught each passing beam between the rim and his olive-tinted skin. As they marched to the very marrow of one on whom he had fixed them with his uncovered stare. His majestic arms were uncovered where they held the reins and the glossy brown skin but covered with a light film as he moved his spear with the rapid jolting of the 494 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. chariot. His robe fell in finely-plaited folds clear to his feet, parting under the right arm to fall away over the huge knee and betray the richly embroidered shirt which reached only to the upper joint. Tassels of gold, and heavily twisted fringe of gold, embossed this inner garment, and added lustre to the shimmering folds of the crimson and blue glory of this outer garment. The inner shirt was of that delicate texture of linen that betrayed its importation from the looms of Damascus. As Nimrod stood in his chariot, under the rising sun of the eastern horizon, its rays glistening and glowing as they covered him with golden glory, there was such evidence of power and strength, such an aroma of kingly dignity and force about his person, that even Abram did not chide as his companion once more flung himself on the ground of the wide parapet and shouted till his voice was gone. "Merodach, the king god ? the lord of the Euphrates ? the Lord of both worlds ? hail ? god of Elkanah ? perfector of wars ? divine one ? hail ? hail!" It was the deep, full hour of the morning, and as the king stepped from his chariot, the whole populace threw themselves upon the earth and shouted, while his body-guard closed in around him, as he made entry into the narrow gateway of the city proper. Others surrounded him, as he emerged into the streets of the city, the officials of the court of Ur, and a gorgeous palanquin, with cloth of golden embroideries, garnished by waving ostrich plumes, was held over him as he marched proudly through the festal streets towards the palace of Terah. "Poor, blind mole" ? said Abraham under his breath, as his friend lay whimpering on the parapet, in abject worship over this apostate warrior, "why should I chide when even my father Terah can drag his priestly robes in the dust of man-worship, and prostitute his offices to the forming of idols to enshrine the worldly glory of this demi-god?" Abram's eye was caught at that moment by a lone chariot which had followed in the wake of the king's own car, and in it stood a solitary warrior, whose dun-colored armor and grimy chariot ill became all this procession of gaudiness. His dark brows were lowered, and his lip curled, as if in contempt, as he spurned alike the cringing shouts of the debased population and the scattered flowers of the maidens by the gateway. He stood erect, his slender and youthful form vibrating with energy as he himself held the speeding course of his steeds, and steadied between his powerful arms the spear which was untipped with gold, and which bore no gleaming colors at its base. "My kinsman, Lot, who has gone out to welcome Nimrod," whispered Abram, and his friend the merchant who now stood upon his feet echoed the words ? "'Tis Lot, the man of valor and of contention." THE PRINCE OF UR. 495 "Lot may be of firm mind," quickly defended Abram, "but he does not oppose the counsel of those over him. But come, it is time we were at our posts. The king may give audience, and we must not seem to lack in princely welcome." It was the afternoon following the return of Nimrod. The fierce sun was sinking in the west, and the breezes and dews of the river-banks were spreading gradually over the blistering plains, while men who had slept and drowsed through the torrid noontide now awoke to carousal or business as the tender gray shadows of twilight began to steal over the groves and fields, the city streets and courts. Within Terah's palace walls, there had been many and great preparations for the public audience which the king-warrior-god had promised to his faithful subjects of this lower city of Ur, The princely throne of Terah had been decked with the gorgeous royal trappings of Nimrod, the spears were fixed in shining rows around the red and gold walls of the audience chamber, the musicians were already gathered in the small balcony above the lower entrance with their kinnors, their kerens, their cymbals and tambourines and they were ready to pour out their weird minor strains accompanied by the regular palace singers, who had been drilling all day under the court music-master. A blast of trumpets announced the approach of the king. Soldiers, chamberlains, priests, scribes, all marched with clang and clash into the confined limits of this smaller palace hall. Soldiers, with spears lowered, entered the hall and ranged themselves about the edges of the walls. Nobles, courtiers of high rank, each with his silver shield, or with shining tiaras of golden bands about their brows, marched with grave decorum into the fast-filling audience chamber. The thundering of the drums' roll, the crash of the cymbals, accentuated the marching rhythm of the advancing throngs. The loud and prolonged blast of a hundred silver trumpets proclaimed the near approach of the king. Nimrod would give audience this day in the halls of the Prince Terah, his loyal vassal. Room for the king! Room, I say; room for the king of Assyria, of Babylon! Founder of empires and mighty hunter of men and beasts of human and divine origin. Room for Nimrod ? Merodach ? Gilgammes! Nimrod dwarfed the huge soldiery, the massy forms of his warriors and attendants ? all sank into comparative insignificance when the giant form of the worshiped king towered shoulders high above them all. His was indeed a goodly person. The king was robed in richest stuffs and the edges of his beautiful purple abaya were embroidered with all manner of floral designs. Upon his brow there rested a diadem of the Moon-god 496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. over a conical mitre which supported two horns of slender gold and the rich mitre was covered with mystic embroideries of sinister significance. His arms were loaded with massive bracelets and his fingers with rings; a heavy necklace was hung about his thick neck, and his great ears were further emphasized by jeweled earrings hanging upon his shoulders. In his belt there protruded a shining hilt of a dagger, whose brilliant steel surface was as delicately curved as the slender horn of the new moon. As he at length entered the hall, the whole people, save his own body-guard, threw themselves wildly upon the tasseled floors, and shouted themselves hoarse with cries of ? "Merodach ? lord of the upper and the nether world ? potentate of all the earth ? supreme ruler of the universe ? god of light and heat! ? Nimrod! Merodach ? Gilgammes ? " The king looked grimly at his prostrate followers. This was no uncommon sight ? he had been familiar with it for a hundred years. But it ever thrilled him with the sense of his own greatness and majesty. His was the colossal magnetism of a throbbing, self-centered, self-worshiped personality, his own vivid conception of his personal wisdom and courage, giving color and warmth to the adulation of his hypnotized subjects. Instinctively, the thought that swept over him at this groveling exhibition was: "I, Nimrod, am indeed a marvel! The heavens and the earth bow down before me!" Seated upon his throne, he nodded graciously to Prince Terah, who took the favored seat upon the steps below the throne. Terah was very tired. His body was wearing with age and the strife between conscience and expediency. Into the hall there came messengers and ministers from many of the surrounding tribes and petty courts. The princes of the desert tribes sent presents of rarest horses, of woven tapestries, of jewels and golden tributes worth a royal ransom. In return, they asked the federated protection of Nimrod's powerful arm. And Nimrod was very gracious. Rarely had the king been in better humor. His glory was at its height, his trophies of the war and chase filled a score of hundred carts without the city's walls. Twenty fierce lions which had troubled the villages and camps about Ur had met summary death at the massive hands of this warrior hunter, on this very trip across the valleys of the Euphrates. Towns and kingdoms that had resisted him hitherto had come bending even here in Ur, to offer allegiance and to crave protection. Old as was the king, his spirit knew no feebleness nor diminution of valor. Nimrod was still lord of the whole earth. As the king sat graciously brooding over these triumphant thoughts, his eye roved about the halls, and he espied his effeminate bastard son Mardan, smooth-faced, pop-eyed, elegantly clad, THE PRINCE OF UR. 497 and with his bold shifting eyes fixed on that of his father, the king, as if to catch the very glance now directed that way. Nimrod held out his scepter. "Approach, thou perfumed suckling of a noble house. With what black magic hast thou been tickling thine inner ear, that should thus capture mine attention?" Mardan was momentarily confused. He realized that he was not a favorite with Nimrod, as was his brethren who dwelt in Babylon, for he cared more for the luxuries and safety of the courts at home, than the risks and burdens of a warrior's life on the field. But he soon gathered himself. He knew that Nimrod's eyes were very keen, yet no keener nor swifter than was his own tongue to travel the path of dulcet flattery. And a royal son who could not flatter might not always be so attractive to this old tyrant father as a bastard son who knew just where and how to lay in the tints and colors of artistic praise. Nimrod signaled to the musicians to cease their songs and clashing harmonies, and bent his huge ear very graciously down to hear the piping treble of this son of the house of Nimrod. "The woods and the waves pour their tribute into the lap of thy greatness. The lions roar thy welcome, and in thy wake their cubs cry upon the plains in desolation at thy power. Kings come to the brightness of thy rising star, and the nobles exalt the horn of thy majesty. In the heavens thou art supreme, for it was decreed that thou shouldst set up thy reign from the rivers to the ends of the earth." Conventional and studied as all his flattery was, Mardan himself had the charm of the house of Nimrod, and his dulcet tones were warm with personal admiration, while his bowed form held an altitude of sincere devotion and rapt worship that did not escape the tyrant who loved such tribute and glorification. "Thou hast wiped out a measure of thy weak, bodily offenses by thy loyal devotion of speech. But words are weak servants, ghosts of deeds that stand in the way to frighten or break the courage of him who uses them idly. What lingers behind thy words?" "Ten thousand youth with scarcely sprouting down upon their chins are ready to offer themselves as warriors in Nimrod's brave and powerful army. Two thousand virgins of all casts and nationalities are this night preparing to sit upon the sacred pavement there to win their right to woman's dower from the priest or noble who gives them nod of invitation. The loveliest of these will be chosen by myself to wait upon thy majesty's commands." "What assurance have I that my son Mardan's private choice will not fall upon those most succulent and fair?" The eyes of Nimrod pierced the bold, shifting brown orbs of 498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Mardan as he muttered his challenge. But the pale youth gave back his stare and said loftily: "My soldiers and the virgins are hostage for my chaste and pure intentions!" Nimrod bent his shaggy brows first upon Mardan, whose lustful eyes and puffed eyelids told their own story of debauchery to the keen gaze of the shrewd old potentate. But Terah, who sat at his feet full of that confidence in young people, begotten of personal ignorance of corruption, save as it flowed in outer lower channels ? Terah was quick to answer: "Do Nimrod's sons follow not the ways of the Assyrian priesthood as upright and secure in his pure manhood as Nimrod and his courtiers were abandoned and without shame. And he felt also that he had touched upon a sore spot of hidden suspicion in the old man towards Mardan, which might flare into open rebellion if he pressed the point. So he merely turned to Mardan and said: "All thou sayest is good. What more?" "The priesthood of the great temple of Ur, which thou hast thyself caused to be here erected in the plains of Shinar, are this night ready to dedicate its altars with the most holy and profound anointing of bloody sacrifice. They wait upon thy commands. The edifice is complete, the altars are ready, the victims await the knife and fire. I have the honor to be their messenger." Terah looked up at Mardan with awakening suspicion. Why this boasted familiarity with the priests of Ur? Terah had made a sharp distinction between his own allegiance to his country and to his God. Had Mardan confused these two? Again Nimrod paused. He knew that his host Terah was not friendly to the method which he ? Nimrod ? had invoked of dedicating all newly built altars by the offering of human sacrifice. Yet, Nimrod also knew that the puny will of any man, be he who or what he may, would not stop him in this inspired ghastly whim of his later years. If the populace had become fired with the wild lust of idol-worship to the extent hinted at by Mardan, and the sacrifice was ready, he ? Nimrod ? would offer it, though the very devil Merodach should rise from the lower bowels of hell to prevent. As he paused, Mardan lifted his right hand aloft, and with a sudden, but elusive gesture, he smote the left hand softly into the palm of the right, and as swiftly bent his arm with a significant gesture. His motion was so graceful, and was so smoothly, rhythmically done, that only those who understood caught at its significance. "Who are the sacred offerings?" quoth Nimrod, his hand still in his beard, where he had placed it, as if casually, yet in answering signal to his son Mardan's secret sign. As Nimrod answered Mardan, Terah gazed open-mouthed, for he had become suddenly suspicious of Mardan. "There are three of them, your majesty. Three Cushite maidens, who are virgins, as is required. They have refused to sit upon the sacred pavement, and prefer death to that delicate initiation into the Babylonian cult." "Are you preparing both death and initiation?" asked the wily monarch. "The high priest will see to that," darkly answered Mardan. Terah was now widely awake and on the alert. Just then, a great clattering noise, as of some voluble person in contention, made confusion at the entrance of the hall. The king frowned. But his displeasure was not sufficient to prevent the inrush of the screaming, gesticulating, fighting merchant of Tarshish, who had persisted in entering into the royal presence in spite of the somewhat futile efforts of the guard at the door. Behind him came the Damascus merchant Eliezer, his friend and close associate. The soldiers all knew the babbling Javanu, and who could resist the laughter-loving wretch when he set out to have his way. "What now? What now? Who comes thus unheralded into the Presence?" growled Nimrod. Although he sought to retain some semblance of democratic freedom with his rough and ready courtiers of the plains, he did not take kindly to irruptions of this sort. "Makers of devils ? molders of hell ? what do ye think ? am I a tadpole, that ye can pull off my tail and leave me to swim about in this sweating atmosphere void of lambs' wool or even my linen?" For the soldiers had clutched his tunic as he was passed jovially up to the throne, and even his inner white garment was almost torn from his loins in their rough handling. When the king saw who it was, his own features lighted up. "Sit thee down, Javanu, sit thee down. Right at my feet, old gossip of a thousand courts, and tell thy merry tales of love and conquest from which kings and scullery maids have but lately emerged. I love thy waggish tongue. Say on, thou male sparrow." Javanu, thus adjured, spent a few moments trying to bring some order into his tousled array, and then, with a shrewd thrust of his tongue into his cheek, he began the long and delightful recital of events which had made him famous in a hundred courts, and for which he was welcomed in hovel or palace. His was the true art of recital. With the sympathetic soul of the artist, he recounted the wars of Egyptia, the loves of the Lydian courts, the brawls of the fierce sons of Japhet in the highlands of the east. 500 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. He brought before his listeners the hot streets of Damascus, the cool meadows of Goshen, the rich courts of Pharaoh. The dark glances of houris, the proud wooing of princes, all these were woven into swift-moving tales of court and field. At its close, Nimrod asked: "What brought thee hither, Javanu?" The merchant's exalted manner dropped from him like a cloak, and he moistened his lips as he looked vainly about the audience hall for the friendly protection of his wise friend Abram. How much and how little should he tell? He had not expected to be quizzed. He only thought to exercise his beloved gift of recital; but Nimrod's quick glance noted his hesitation. Determined to pluck the trembling merchant's innermost secret from him, Nimrod bawled with deep tones: "Tell all, thou fool, or Nimrod will suck thee dry as rotten fruit in the hot sand." Thus adjured, poor Javanu motioned to Eleizer, his Damascus friend, and to gain a little time he whispered with him. But Nimrod was impatient. "What is it that you hold within your bosom? Tablets? See! They bulge out from your garment." With quick stroke, the king plucked the three tablets from Javanu's inner robe, and squinting at the seals, he said heavily: "Wouldst thou trick the king? These are royal missives, sealed with the nails of kings. I can not read their contents, but I know my kingly brothers' sign manual. Read them, I say. Read! And lest thou stumble wilfully, here is my son Mardan, he shall look over thy shoulder as thou dost interpret them." With trembling hands the merchant took from his robe the tablets he had shown to Abram, all of a private nature, and all directed to Terah. "They are sent to Terah, my lord," said Javanu, helplessly. "Well," again bellowed the king, "read them to Terah in my presence. Is he not my vice-gerent? My kinsman, my confederate? Read, I say!" The merchant began his tablets, each one being an offer to the prince for the hand of his queenly and renowned daughter ? or granddaughter Sarai. "Who is Sarai?" the question and the tablet had set the quivering body of Terah groveling in fear and anguish of soul before the throne. The loveliest flower in all his household. Protected, shielded, even more than any other of his carefully guarded women folk, Sarai was suddenly in great danger. "Who is Sarai?" Aye, who was Sarai indeed? The soldier Lot looked falteringly at his grandfather Terah, and his cousin Mardan. Here was a complication little dreamed of. The merchant Javanu realized that he had let fly a poisoned THE PRINCE OF UR. 501 arrow from his rattling tongue and love of display. The guilty merchant quaked in abject misery. The question rolled for the third time down the hall, "Who is Sarai?" This time, there stepped from the side of the hall a figure that instantly commanded all attention. If the king were tall, so was he. If the king's body were knit with sinews of steel, covered with muscles of velvety gloss, so were those which firmly outlined the massive form of Abram as he stood, unchallenged, and splendid in his manhood, erect before King Nimrod. "And who art thou?" shouted the confused and impatient king. "My name is Abram, O king, I am son of Nahor, Terah's son." "Abram!" bellowed the enraged monarch, Abram! The one whom he had thought dead and out of his way long years ago. Terah had deceived him ? him ? Nimrod ? the king. "O king, why art thou thus angry? What has Abram done to make thee thus enraged?" asked Abram calmly. But the king was rising from his throne to grasp the prostrate Terah on the step below, and there was murder in his glaring eyes. As he stooped, he was caught by the muscles of his neck in the sinewy fingers of Abram, and instantly thrown back into his seat. Without one word, Abram reared again upright and faced the glaring eyes of his kingly foe. With the motion of forked lightning, Abram raised his arm above the shoulder, and in a voice of thunder, he said: "Thou mayest be king, but thou shalt not be murderer under this roof." The tone, the superb gesture, full of hidden meaning, awed every soul within that hall. Even the burly giant on the throne cowered before those blazing dark eyes. Abram was within his rights. Even a king owed the duty of protection to the body of his host. But oh, the hatred which gushed from those glittering black eyes of the king, and behind those gnashing teeth, as Nimrod sought to answer sullenly: "Abram teaches a king his duty. 'Tis well! The king may have some future words with Abram." The words, the look, the snarling teeth of the enraged old king cut the palsied air. The soldiers who had crowded around the throne to interpose, now fell back. Terah had arisen. His own eyes were scintillating with sudden rage at the king, for the insult offered to himself and to his children. "Who is Sarai?" bellowed again the king. (To be continued.) Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. Vilhjalmar Stefansson, the explorer, has discovered a new land north of Alaska. As yet, however, there seems to be no rush of emigration thither. The cornerstone of the fifth temple for the Latter-day Saints, since the settlement of Utah, was laid on September 19. This one is at Raymond, Canada, but yet in the land of Zion, and significant of the growth of the gospel cause. Joseph S. Glass has been selected by the Roman Catholic church as its bishop in Utah. Should he prove to be as fair, as tolerant, and as courteous as his predecessor, Bishop Laurence Scanlan, he will establish for himself an enviable record. The conditions in Mexico seem to be getting no better fast. No sooner does a ray of hope appear athwart the war-sky there than a storm of increased intensity sweeps over the horizon, reaching even to the American side of the Rio Grande. Half a billion dollars is the loan which the English and French governments have secured in America. This will be soon spent for American goods, and the European nations will be years paying heavy bills to American producers, with a substantial rate of interest, while still other loans are looming up. The University of Utah has practically the same enrollment as last year, notwithstanding predictions to the contrary by those who sought to set aside, in effect at least, the law which requires the board of regents to control University affairs. In a recent convention of Baptists held in Salt Lake City, one of the chief speakers advocated tithing as a means of raising church funds. He showed clearly that it was the Lord's method with His people, notwithstanding the fact that sectarian organizations disregard it. The effort of certain national government officials to have the national government assume control over all the water power sites within the States received sharp criticism from Utah and other western States represented at the recent Conservation Congress. Those western representatives seemed possessed of the idea that CURRENT TOPICS. 503 the people of the various states have some rights which command respect. The Brooklyn (New York) Eagle sent a representative to Utah to learn how equal suffrage for men and women worked in this state. From his expressions to prominent men, made when there were no women present to influence him by thought of gallantry or chivalry, he was convinced that it worked very well indeed. A leading New York authority in the fashion world, during a recent trip through the West, says she has ascertained that the women in the Pacific Coast and Intermountain West region pay double as much as do New York women to be equally well dressed; and she lays it to the lack of careful buying. This should open the eyes of Western women to the urgent need of retrenchment, if only for the sake of those who must earn the money with which to pay bills. On September 27, a carload of gasoline in the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe depot yard at Ardmore, Oklahoma, exploded, demolishing the station and killing every person therein, besides wrecking a great portion of the town, setting on fire blocks of business buildings, killing about fifty people and injuring about four times that many others. This was a terrible illustration of the great danger which attends leaving, in the populated part of a town, carloads of high explosives, which is frequently done. The recall of Dr. Constantin T. Dumba, Austrian ambassador to the United States, upon request from Washington, because of his interference in American industrial affairs, is a warning to the nations that there is a point beyond which American patience will not be stretched. Foreign representatives accredited to this government have the business of their own countries to attend to, and that is sufficient to keep any of them legitimately busy. Count Franz von Papen, military attache at Washington, referred to certain newspapermen in New York as "idiotic Yankees." Whatever he thought, or however appropriate may have been his description, it is enough that his official position made the remark so inappropriate that his presence at the national capital as a representative of the German government has been deemed inadvisable, hence his departure. Thus some European diplomats in America may learn that "a wise head keeps a still tongue," even in democratic countries. Notes from the Field. By General Secretary, Amy B. Lyman. It will probably be surprising to many of our readers to know that in the European mission there are 95 branches of the Relief Society. Of these branches, there are 42 in Great Britain, 9 in Switzerland and Germany, 7 in the Netherlands, and 37 in Scandinavia. In a recent report from Mrs. Ida B. Smith, who is President of the Relief Society in the European mission, we learn that the average enrollment of each Society is 23, and the average attendance is 14. During the year of 1914 and until March, 1915, 8,630 visits had been made to the sick, and $1,643.42 distributed for charity. The Relief Society members in Great Britain have made and contributed to the British Army 2,427 articles of clothing, consisting of shirts, body belts, socks, mufflers, helmets, etc., ? nearly all woolen knitted goods. These were given to the Army in response to the call of the Government. This work represents special effort on the part of the Society, as the regular Relief Society work has not been neglected in the least. These branches also contributed 488 books, pamphlets, magazines, etc., to the Army. Mrs. Smith has received many beautiful letters of acknowledgement for these useful gifts of the Relief Society, two of which we print, the second being from Her Majesty's secretary. "1 Gambler Terrace, Liverpool, "Dear Mrs. Smith: "Will you please convey to the ladies of your Society the very warmest thanks of the committee for the most generous and welcome gift of warm clothing for our soldiers. They appreciate not only the gift itself but also the kind thoughts and the sympathy with the work which prompted the senders. The demands on our store of such warm things is very heavy, so you may imagine how glad we are to have it replenished by such beautiful things as you have sent us. I am sure they will be much appreciated by those fortunate men who receive them. Once more very many thanks for your past and present help. "Yours sincerely, "Winifred Rathbone, "Lady Mayoress." NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 505 The articles made by the Societies of the London Conference were taken by President John A. Maynes to St. James Palace and the following was received: 'Friary Court, St. James Palace, S. W. "February 23, 1915. 'Hon. Lady Lawley, "Hon. Secretary, "Dear Sir: "I am commanded by Her Majesty to convey to you the expression of her high appreciation of your generosity and to thank you for the splendid gift of clothing which you have been so good as to send to the Queen Mary's Needlework Guild. "Yours faithfully, "Annie Lawley, "Hon. Secretary." The following extract from an interesting letter from Mrs. Smith to her aunt Counsellor Julina C. Smith, gives further detailed matter concerning the work in England: "Our Relief Societies throughout the European mission are still working hard. We have completed our special work for the soldiers. Our sisters have worked faithfully and well, and are still working hard. We have taken up a special work for the poor, and about 2,149 members are engaged in this noble labor. The sum of fifteen dollars, from the amount given in Utah by our Saints to be sent to this country, was distributed to each Relief Society for the purpose of buying material to make up for the poor children ? as sheets, pillow cases, night dresses, underclothing, etc. These articles can be made for about one-half less than they can be bought ready made, and the members of our Relief Societies are eager to do the work. A complete report of this work will be sent as soon as it has been finished, with the amount of money contributed and the number of articles made. Our meetings during the past nine months have been very successful. They are all held in the evenings, as most of our sisters work during the day. The president and her counselors make out the program about a week ahead. " The meeting is called to order, and, after the second hymn, the roll is called, and each member responds with a sentiment. We are trying to encourage the sisters to read and commit a little to memory each week. Many of them learn passages of scripture. Others give splendid lines from good authors, and are in this way becoming acquainted with their own voices in public. Next, we have reports of visits. 506 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Then the work is distributed among the members, which has previously been prepared by a committee during the week. This is done quietly, without any confusion or talking. When the sewing is started, we have a gospel talk by one of the elders, a local member, or one of the sisters. Then we have a song, a story, a musical number, and the closing exercises. In this way we are leading the. sisters out of the rut of gossiping while they sew. They seem to be very much enthused with their work. A number of them have expressed themselves in this way: The Saints in Utah have provided the money for the poor, and the Saints in this country are performing the work. So they feel that there is a connecting link between them. They are so anxious to feel that they are a part of that great organization in Zion, and that the noble sisters who constitute the general board are interested in the work they are trying to accomplish. We are making a specialty of visiting the poor, the sick, and the sorrowful. I hope to be able to visit all the conferences in August or September. It looks as if the war might continue a year or more. Foodstuff has been on the rise. The weather has been beautiful for the past two weeks. The crops, however, are suffering for want of rain. It is claimed the potato crop is practically ruined. The people of this country can ill afford to have ruined crops this 3^ear." PROGRAM OF SEMI-ANNUAL MEETING OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. October 1st and 2nd, 1915. Friday Morning, Oct. 1st, 10:00 a.m. Organ Prelude Organist Edna Coray a. Pastorale in F (J. S. Bach) b. Adagio Op. 113 (Spohr) Hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints" Congregation Prayer Address "Soldiers Music, of the Captain" (Parks) of Welcome. . .Relief President Society Emmeline Choir B. Wells Response Mary H. Stringham, President Uintah Stake Soprano Solo, "Gates of Paradise" (King) Reports of Stakes. . . ". Stake Presidents Summary of Relief Society Activities General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman Organ Solo. Fantasia in C (Tours) Edna Coray Report of Genealogical Excursion to California Elizabeth C. McCune Instrumental Music Schettler Trio NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 507 Address Counselor Julina L. Smith Music, "Savior with Thee" Benediction (Molloy ) Choir Postlude, "Sing unto God" Arr. by Best (Handel) . .Edna Coray Friday Afternoon, October 1st, 2:00 p.m. Organ Prelude, Andante 4th Symphony (Mendelssohn)... Edna Coray Music, "Softly Now the Light of Day" (Von Weber) Choir Address Counselor Clarissa S. Williams Instrumental Music. .Profs. Willard Weihe and John J. McClellan Address Martha H. Tingey, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A. Contralto Solo, "My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice" (C. Saint Saens) Evangeline Thomas Address Pres. Louie B. Felt, Pres. Primary Association Music, "Band of Little Faces" (Parke) Choir Remarks Members of General Board Music, "The Lost Chord" (Arthur Sullivan) Chorus Little Girls Closing Remarks President Emmeline B. Wells Music, "Sanctus" (Dudley Buck) Choir Postlude, "March Solemelle" (Schubert) Edna Coray OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Saturday Morning, October 2nd, 10:00 a.m. Reports: Magazine Counselor Clarissa S. Williams Membership Ruling Relief Society Books. .General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman Duet, "Music of the Pines" (Chamberlain) Pearl White and Violet Felkins Reports: Lesson Work Theology Art Alice Merrill Home Home Economics Janette A. Hyde Nurse School Phebe Y. Beatie Relief Society History Susa Young Gates Discussion Remarks Counselor Julina L. Smith Remarks President Emmeline B. Wells Saturday Afternoon. October 2nd, 2 p.m. Testimony Meeting Note. All stake and ward officers and class supervisors are invited to be in attendance at the officers' meetings. 508 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. SPECIAL MEETINGS. GENEALOGY. The Genealogical Department will hold special meetings in the Auditorium follows: on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building, as Friday afternoon, October 1st, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Stake Reports and Discussion. Saturday, October 2nd, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Individual Record. Tuesday, October 5th, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: Living Family Groups. Wednesday, October 6th, at 4:30 p. m. ? Subject: The Coming Season's Work. ART. Lender the auspices of the Relief Society Art Department, a day has been arranged for at the University of Utah, Tuesday, October 5th. At 11a. m. the visitors will meet in the Girls' Rest Room, in the Administration Building, when Dr. Joseph F. Merrill will give information on the grounds and buildings. At 1 1:30 a lecture will be given in the Archaeological Department on the collection taken from the Cliff Dwellers, by Prof. Levi Edgar Young. At 12:00 o'clock the visitors will be conducted through the Art Gallery by Chairman Alice Merrill Home. This Art Gallery contains many beautiful pictures, among them the "Alice Art Collection." At 12:30 p. m. a lecture will be given in the Museum Building by Professor George Montayne Marshall; subject, English Architecture, the lecture to be illustrated with colored slides. At 1:15 p. m. the guests may be accommodated in the University Cafeteria at a 15-cent lunch, served under the direction of Dean Lucy M. VanCott. On Monday at 4:15 p. m., a lecture will be given in the Reception Room of the Relief Society Headquarters by Mrs. Alice Merrill Home; subject, .Art and Architecture of the California Exposition. In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hazel Love Dunford. HONEY. ? It has not been long since honey was the principal sweet used in the American home; but with the advent of the sugar factory, it is fast loosing its place on our tables. This is a mistake, for honey is one of nature's best foods. Unlike cane sugar^ it is very easily assimilated. Many persons who find it impossible to eat sugar find that honey gives them no distress whatsoever. It is especially good for children, and where they are allowed a liberal supply, it will largely do away with the inordinate longing for candy and other sweets. Ask the average child whether he will have honey alone on his bread, or butter alone, and almost invariably, he will answer, "honey." Yet seldom are the needs or the taste of the child properly consulted. The old man craves fat meat, the child loathes it; he wants sweet, not fat; and now that the cold weather is coming, he will want it more than ever. Why not give it to him in the very best form? In many cases, it may be a matter of real economy to lessen the butter bill by letting honey take its place, at least in part. The eating of butter and honey together is not a good habit for children to form. If honey is bought in large quantities, it can be used in a great many ways. CARE OF HONEY. The average housekeeper puts honey in the cellar for safe keeping ? about the worst place possible, for it readily takes up moisture; and in the cellar, or a damp place, extracted honey will often become thin, and even sour, in time. The best is a dry, warm place. A temperature of 100 degrees will not hurt it. If it is kept for any length of time ? especially during cold weather ? it has a tendency to granulate, or candy. But this condition is not to be taken as an evidence against its genuineness or purity, but rather on the contrary, for adulterated honeys are less liable to candy than those that are pure. Many prefer honey in the candied state, the majority prefer liquid. It is a very easy matter to restore it from its former liquid condition ? simply keep it in hot water long enough. It should not be heated above 160 degrees, as there is danger of spoiling the delicate flavor. A good way is to set it in another vessel containing the water, not allowing the bottom of the one to rest on the bottom of the other. 510 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. . Place a shingle, or something of the kind, between; let it stand on the stove but do not let it boil. RECIPES. Honey Tea Cakes. 1 cup honey 1/2 cup flour 1/2 cup sour cream thin 1/2 teaspoon soda (scant) 2 eggs 1 teaspoon cream tartar 1/2 cup butter Cream butter, add honey, eggs, cream and flour, soda and cream of tartar. Bake thirty minutes. Honey Gems. Honey Jumbles. 2 quarts flour 2 quarts flour 3 tb. melted lard 3tb. melted lard 1/2 pt. honey 1 pt. honey 1/2 pint molasses 3/4 pt. molasses 4 heaping teaspoonful brown sugar 1 1/2 level tablespoonful soda 1 1/2 level tb. soda 1 level teaspoonful salt 1 level teaspoonful salt 1/2 pt. water 1-3 pt. water 1/2 t. vanilla 1/2 t. vanilla extract OLD-FASHIONED THANKSGIVING MENU. Lily's Roast Turkey. If a tough bird, steam for a couple or more hours. Fifteen minutes to the pound should be allowed for roasting, unless the bird is very young or has been steamed. Cook in double pan; if possible. Allow 1/2 lb. of butter to baste with, unless you use bacon, which is objectionable to some people. Oyster Dressing. 2 dozen raw oysters or 1 quart can, chopped. Use the liquor to wet the dressing. 3 eggs, well beaten. The crumbs of 3 loaves of baker's bread or 2 loaves of home-made. 1/2 lb. of butter. 1 ts. of salt. Fill craw and inside of turkey. Then make balls and put about the wings and legs, as it keeps the meat from drying. Lily's Creamed Potatoes. Few people make good mashed potatoes. Cook soft, and mash thoroughly. To 6 large potatoes, add 2 tablespoons of butter and 1 cup of thin cream. If you have no cream use more butter. Skim milk mashed potatoes are worse than none. After the cream and butter are stirred in, take a toasting fork and whip the potatoes till they are like snow. Serve with butter in small hole on the top of the pyramid ? as mother used to do. Grandma Gates' Plum Pudding. 1 lb. of chopped suet. 15 cts. of chopped citron. 1 lb. of chopped raisins. 4 beaten eggs. 1 cup of chopped walnuts. 2 cups flour rubbed in the fruit. 10 cts. of chopped lemon peel. 2 teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. 1 1/2 pint of bread crumbs. 2 pints sweet milk. 1 lb. of cleaned currants. 1 teaspoon each of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Boil in tin buckets set in water. Keep boiling hard for 6 or 10 hours. Serve with ice cream. Jennie's Pie Crust. 1 tb. flour. 1 tb. butter. 1 1/2 ts. salt. Mix flour with water enough to make a soft dough; place butter in corner of clean cloth, work all the water and moisture out, and form into a pat. Roll out the dough about an inch thick, place the butter in the center, and fold over three times; then roll out again. Let stand for five minutes between each process. Repeat the process six or seven times. Always roll the crust from you, handling as lightly as possible. Use but little extra flour in the process of rolling it out. Pumpkin Pie. 2 eggs well beaten. 1/2 cup sugar. 1/2 cup steamed pumpkin or squash. 1 pt. rich milk ? little cream adds much to richness and flavor. 1 pinch salt. Stir all well together, flavor with nutmeg or cinnamon, and bake in under crust. Pineapple Pie. 1 can grated pineapple, well drained. 1 cup sweet cream. 1/2 cup sugar. 5 eggs. 1/2 cup butter. Beat butter and sugar to cream; add beaten yolks of eggs, then add pineapple and cream, and lastly the beaten whites ? whip in lightly. Bake with under crust only. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto ? Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. II. NOVEMBER. 1915. No. 11 THANK GOD FOR OUR HOMES. The Jews have preserved to the human race the The Ancient truest, best ideals. The pagan and Home. oriental nations lost or muddled the clear fountain of home inspirations. The state, not the home, was the unit of the surrounding nations when Noah floated over a destroyed world, when the Lord thundered to Moses from Mount Sinai, and when the Master taught from the Mount of Olives. "Mormonism" has given to the modern world a The Modern virile conception of the home, its relation to the Home. individual, to society, and to the state. According to the gospel of Jesus Christ the home is the unit of all organized human life, here and hereafter. What the heavenly parents are to our earthly home, so are our divine Parents to that eternal home on high. The modern scholar Sayce, in his recent book, Babylonians and Assyrians, page 233, thus describes, from his own researches among the ancient tablets and mounds of the Valley of the Euphrates, EDITORIAL. 513 the "peculiar" ideas of the ancient Semites ? or children of Shem ? concerning the family relations here and hereafter: "Wholly different was the idea which underlay the spiritual conception of the Semites. He believed in a god in whose image man had been made. It was a god whose attributes were human, but intensified in power and action. The human family on earth had its counterpart in the divine family in heaven. By the side of the god stood the goddess, a colorless reflection of the god, like the woman by the side of the man. The divine pair were accompanied by a son, who was the heir to his father's power and his representative and interpreter. As man stood at the head of created things in this world, so, too, the god stood at the head of all creation. He had called all things into existence, and could destroy them if he chose." For an uninspired translation of ancient belief, what more perfect description of true earthly and heavenly ideals and beliefs could be given. Any people who hold such exalted possibilities as to the ultimate conditions of family relations and home life must of necessity possess correspondingly pure and elevated working principles of action. When we gather around our home altars at this Thanksgiving For Our peaceful thanksgiving season, let not the least of Homes. our grateful thanks extend on high for the restored knowledge of what a home is, may be, and will be in the future. Let us thank God for homes in Zion where truth exists as the bulwark and love as the light of our daily lives and conduct. Thank God ? thank our earthly parents, and each other, for all the blessedness which comes to our human homes. Unlock our lips, unseal our thoughts, and give love and gratitude, voice and speech. 'Tis the season of gratitude and thanksgiving, and we thank and worship thee, O our Father, for homes, for families, and above all for the knowledge of our relationship to ourselves, to thee and to thine, in that Heavenly Home. CHARITY. The mantle of Charity all should wear. Regardless of color or size; For it never grows old, as some things do, And is very becoming to me and you. 'Tis a gem we all should prize. Edith McClendon. Mesa, Arizona. Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week (Dec. 7). Theology and Testimony. Second Week (Dec. 14). WORD OF WISDOM. Section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants contains a very clear and specific revelation on the foods good for man, and those which are injurious. This revelation was further clarified by Patriarch Hyrum Smith who stated that tea and coffee were forbidden articles. All spirituous liquors ? which contain intoxicating principles were forbidden. All stimulants ? especially strong drink, tea and coffee ? are also forbidden. Meat should be eaten sparingly, and then in winter, and times of famine. All herbs, which we freely interpret as vegetables, with fruits in their season, grains, and all of the good things of the earth, air, and waters, are blessed, and dedicated to the use of man. The leaders who followed the Prophet, especially President Brigham Young and President Joseph F. Smith, have laid heavy stress on the keeping of this law. President Smith recently laid down the injunction that officers in this Society should be strict in the observance of this law. Let the Relief Society workers set an example worthy of imitation by every daughter of Zion. 1. Read Section 89, Doctrine & Covenants. 2. Why are stimulants and narcotics injurious? 3. What can you say as to the use of beer, wine, whiskey and tobacco? 4. What would you think of Relief Society officers who would serve or offer tea, coffee, beer, or wine, to friends or guests at home, or in bazaars or public gatherings? 5. Why is cleanliness a part of health? 6. What are the healing powers of love and charity? 7. Read Verses 123-125 of Section 88, Doctrine & Covenants. 8. Read Verse 3 in the seventh Lecture on Faith. 9. Who should keep the Word of Wisdom? Reference: See Sermon by Patriarch Hyrum Smith, in this issue. GUIDE LESSONS. 515 Genealogy. SOURCES OF INFORMATION (Dec. 21). LIBRARIES AND BOOKS. The extent and scope of genealogical libraries is astonishing to most people. The millions of dollars spent for spacious and costly buildings, for rare and expensive books comes as a surprise to the uninitiated. Nearly every section of the United States has its district genealogical association with the usual library. Among the New England people there is the Boston or New England Genealogical Society Library; for the early Dutch and Knickerbockers, there is the New York Society and Library; for the Quakers and Pennsylvania Dutch, there is the Pennsylvania Society and Library in Philadelphia; the New Jersey people have their own at Trenton; the Old Northwest Society includes Illinois, Ohio, Kansas, Minnesota, Indiana, and Iowa; for the West, the California Society at San Francisco; and for all our people, the Utah Genealogical Society and Library in Salt Lake City. In all of these libraries, emphasis is laid on the sectional work and family lines, yet all of them possess also the standard genealogical books. The list of standard English and American books will be found in our Lesson Books. Our Utah Genealogical Library has most of these standard books. The earnest student will certainly pay a good visit to our library each time he comes to the city. Theatres, fairs, shops, all these are of small value compared with the great worth of such a collection of possibilities as are in our own genealogical library. Not once, but every time possible, our students should visit and work in our library. Here, as in other similar libraries, is the most important and fruitful source of information in the world. Let the class read chapter 7 in our new Lesson Book on Sources of Information. FOR EXERCISE. Procure a printed genealogical or family history, from which take a few original examples to place on the blackboard, numbering the same, and giving proper heirship and relationship. Compare modes of arranging pedigrees as shown in printed records. 516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Home Ethics and Art. Lesson IV. ? The Sin of Ingratitude. (December 28th.) ETHICS. The old English prayer book contains a significant prayer for our sins of commission and of omission. Most people feel pleased and grateful ? at the time ? for gifts which are given, and for favors which are shown. But too often they forget, or omit: first, to express gratitude; and second, to remember the obligation. It is true that gifts are sometimes given ostentatiously, and obligations are brought up constantly, and therefore offensively. It is almost a sin to parade a favor or to boast of an obligation. Latter-day Saints have been trained in the stern school of self-control and self-repression. But they should not allow these traits to make them cold, ungrateful or unresponsive. This is so much the age of the child, that the child is in danger of growing up selfish, self-centered, and ungrateful. Too often, children say to parents, "I think you owe me this, or that pleasure, treat, or advantage." Parents "owe" children no more than children "owe" parents. Children selfishly marry, unwisely choose an expensive career, refuse to attend family or religious duty, and give not a thought to the sacrifices made by parents, nor to obligations they owe to parents who have given life itself almost to their children. Children should be guarded against the sin of ingratitude, by constant and rigid training in unselfishly seeking the welfare of parents and family before their own; also they should be trained to say and to feel ? "thank you," for kindnesses shown, favors done, or gifts bestowed. Ingratitude is a sin, denounced by society, the state, and by heaven itself. The ungrateful child is despised by society, and is legislated against in some countries. Ancient Babylonia and Assyria, as well as Judea, had strict laws compelling an outward observance, at least, of gratitude and reverence on the part of children for parents. Paul describes the present apostate condition of the world in II Timothy 3:2, referring especially to men being "blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy." David, in his exquisite psalms, exhorts all created nature to gratitude and thanksgiving to God for all his mercies. Yet, how ungrateful is mankind today, to parents, to associates, to benefactors, to the aged, to public servants, and to God the Father of all. GUIDE LESSONS. 517 QUESTIONS. 1. What are some sins of omission? 2. When are we absolved from expressing or even feeling grateful for a favor? 3. What do you think of selfish and ungrateful people? 4. Are your children properly grateful to their father and mother? 5. Quote II Timothy 3. 6. How can you train your family to be grateful? 7. Is it enough to feel grateful, or should we also express gratitude? 8. When do you express your gratitude to your husband, your friends and to your Maker? ART. The Christmas month always brings thoughts of the Christ child and his mother Mary. So many of the members of Relief Society have come from foreign lands, where numberless beautiful pictures are seen, that we feel to dedicate the art lesson to these sisters of foreign extraction. We suggest the following program: A. Describe in your native tongue a beautiful picture or statue of the Christ child and Mary his mother that you saw in your native land; translation may follow. B. Describe a beautiful scene, or church, or work of art in your native land. Translation may follow. C. Describe a park with its trees, flowers, paths, fountains, statues, in your native land. D. With what great European artists are you acquainted? E. Describe your native home. Is the roof thatched, slate, tile, etc.? F. Have you ever seen the Midnight Sun? Describe it. If there are Scandinavians, let them describe the snow-scenes, the fjords, etc. G. Describe the English Christmas, the German Christmas, the French Christmas. H. What decorations are used in your native home for Christmas or festive occasions? What can be utilized in your present location for Christmas decoration? Make a plan for your Christmas table showing the decorations to be used. Mrs. Horne wishes to announce that she has made arrangements with the publishers, and can now offer her Art Book ? Devotees and Their Shrines ? for $1.00. 518 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. THE CROWN THAT I WOULD WEAR. Oh, talk not to me of your earthly crowns, Her titles and honors I'd laugh to scorn. For I would tell of a beautiful crown, E'en angels and gods might covet when worn. 'Tis the glorious crown of motherhood, 'Tis the crown I long for, prize, and love, 'Tis the deepest dream, the least understood, The celestial star in heaven above. Oh, give me the crown of pure motherhood! I crave and I hunger for babies' love; In that holy bliss I discern a power That swayeth empires and kingdoms move. Then go with your empty baubles of fame; Yes, go with your shallowness, show and dress: A pure mother's love shall be my empire, My heaven a baby's sweet caress. Oh, give me the joyous laugh and the thrill Of healthy and innocent childhood's glee. This rejected cup I would quaff and fill At the fountain that flows from eternity. Let the childless queen of dame fashion strut, Let her proudly boast of a life so free: The Lapland mother in her rude ice hut Drinks deeper of happiness than she. Then give me the joys of sweet motherhood; The title is sacred and most divine. Her crown will be lasting and count for good. Oh, grant that this title and crown be mine. Oh, sainted mothers of the good and wise, Of the great, the noble, the pure, the true, Ye are queens of heaven in earth's disguise, Your true worth was never quite understood. Name me a monarch, prophet, or foreman, Or warrior who worthy battles fought, But owes his being and body to woman, Born by thee, nurtured, fed, clothed, reared and taught. Then fling your earthly crowns unto the wind, Or crumble them low in the dust of earth; Intelligence fittingly crowns the mind With brightest jewels of the choicest worth. THE CROWN THAT I WOULD WEAR. 519 Then let my empire be a world of love, Where selfishness reigns not, but only good; Let me submit to heaven's first great law, And taste the blessed fruits of motherhood. Then lightly spurn it, ye of worldly mind, But lo, your day of sad regret's at hand. For me, my life I dedicate with joy To please the Lord and carry out his plan. Right gladly I'd suffer those hours of pain; What were an hour in the valley of death Compared with so great and eternal gain As that e'en one mortal through me hath breath. Naught but sweet praise to the Father above For this grandest privilege of life on earth, And my soul shall ever be full of love For the blessed mother who gave me birth. Annie G. Lauritzen. St. George, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Devotees and Their Shrines REDUCED TO $1.00 Postpaid The History of English and American Architecture will be studied in 1916 from Mrs. Home's Art Book. Send now and be ready for the years work. Southern Pacific The Road of a Thousand Wonders The Standard for Safety Service Scenery Comfort Convenience Courtesy Don't Travel Haphazardly Plan Your Trip It Is Less Expensive To Travel Right Do you want full and accurate information from those who know Write, or better still, come into our new offices and have your trip to the TWO BIG EXPOSITIONS and CALIFORNIA arranged by those who have spent years of travel and study on the Pacific Coast. We Are Paid to Answer Questions and Like Our Work For itineraries and beautiful literature on California write or call on C. L. McFAUL, District Passenger Agt. Second Floor, Walker Bank Building SALT LAKE CITY  YOU to own a It's so easy for GRAFONOLA COLUMBIA ?J Here is shown the "JEWEL" model? ? a high-grade instrument that will bring you "All the music of all the world ? any music at any time."

OWN the GRAFONOLA

The secret of the ever-increasing popularity of the GRAFONOLA

In sheer tonal beauty it is supreme. The tone is so ROUND and RICH and NATURAL.

This fine "JEWEL" GRAFONOLA

Buy the GRAFONOLA if you want the BEST.

With 24 Fine Selections
(12 Double-disc Records)
ONLY $49.50
$10 Cash? $5 a Mo.

Catalog showing all styles from $17.50 up mailed FREE

"OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH"

Convenience
and Courtesy

Every man in this bank will be glad to help you, in every way possible. Our men do not work for the bank but with the bank. In fact you might say they are part of the bank.

If there is anything about banking you do not understand, they will be glad to explain it to you.

A bank could not be more conveniently located ? right in the heart of the business center? corner of Broadway and Main ? with an entrance from both streets. One of the lightest and best ventilated institutions in the city. An ideal bank to do business with. Step in and meet us.

"The Bank With a Personality"

Merchants Bank
Capital, $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House.
Authorized Capital, $5,000,000.
John Pingree, Prest.; Chas. E. Kaiser, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier. Cor. Main and 3rd. So., Salt Lake City, Utah.

The Demand For
Fresh Butter
? Is satisfied with two brands, made from pure cream from the country and recognized as the pioneers of all butters ? "Four-in-One" and "Blanchard". The first is wrapped in separate quarter-size prints. When you take one from the package the remaining three are protected with their clean parchment paper covering.

"Blanchard" is a full pound print.

You can depend on either of these butters, from any grocer.

MUTUAL CREAMERY
COMPANY
Member of 11 Creameries in 7 States.
Annual Butter Output, 8,000,000 pounds

It's FREE -send for the little book "Cameos"

Three thousand words on Cameos
Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos
The only book of its kind published

W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler
64 Main Street, Salt Lake City

Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them

UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE

Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation.

Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at

The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.

RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS

For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods
Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request

CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street

ASK YOUR DEALER FOR

Z. C. M. I.
Western Scout Shoes

The ideal summer shoes for men, youths and boys. Worn extensively by carpenters, iron workers, boy scouts, etc.

Cheap
Serviceable, Comfortable.

"Mountaineer" and "The Leader"

Overalls don't rip, they are guaranteed for wear.

The Most Interesting,
Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections
of the West

ARE REACHED VIA

Including
Ogden Canyon
Bear River Canyon
Shoshone Falls
Yellowstone Park
Jackson Hole Country
Lost River Country
Wood River Country
The Snake River
Payette Lakes Country
Columbia River and
Pacific Coast Resorts

Excursions North
September 11 and 25

Pacific Coast Excursions
Daily to November 30th

For Descriptive Literature, address
D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah

