Vol. II. MAY, 1915. No. 5 

Parents' Day. Some well disposed persons have proA Mothers' posed and actually made popular the observDay. ance of a Mothers' Day in the month of May. This movement is akin to the Mothers' Congress which was so popular a decade since, but which is apparently rapidly falling into the neglect of forgotten things. There are two reasons which bid fair to make similar shipwreck of the Mothers' Day observance, sooner or later. Men and women who actually build up, The Builders create and advance life's best interests are and Creators of too busy to stop and talk about what they are Home and State. doing. A great nation is builded; the pioneers and state-builders lay down their weary tools and are content to sleep the long sleep forgotten ? for the work they have done was its own exceeding great reward. The lesser minds following after exclaim at the miracle which has been wrought, and they write the history thereof. Said Brigham Young, when asked if he had read a certain history, ? "I have been too busy making history to read history." EDITORIAL. 243 The parents who create a home and who rear a family are too busy to sit down and contemplate admiringly their work. Children look back and exclaim at the labors performed by their good parents. But they in turn are also creating a home, making family history, which their descendants will scan with more or less pleased wonder. Parents who rear children are translatEmotional ing their emotions into practical everyday Outbursts. realities. The emotional outbursts that occur in a community given over to an exaggerated consideration of sentimental matters, will either drift about from one novel emotion to a newer one, or people will grow tired of it all, and finally settle down to a harder and less sympathetic plane of action and demeanor. This is the natural reaction to emotional stimulus. We have therefore this danger ahead of Mothers' Day. A more serious menace is attached to A Pretty this pretty custom, which has so much charm Custom. and appeal for every man born of woman. All the best impulses of a man's nature center around his mother. She was his nurse, his playmate, his confidant, and his sympathizer. And if the mother has thoughtlessly or selfishly permitted the image and ideal of the father to be a misty blur on the children's inner vision ? if she has not begun and ended her teachings with a tender reverence for the father's position, obedience to his counsel, love for his personality, and consideration for his limitations, she has failVol. II MAY, 1915 No. 5 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY CHARLTON'S Exclusive and correct styles in at reasonable Prices Women's Wear. Suits in Newest Cloth and Silk Materials, Latest GOODWIN CORSETS Modes in Gowns and Blouses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent. on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction Two Books that Every L. D. S. Family Should Have The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25 postpaid. Family Record of Temple Work The Thomas for the Dead. $1.25 and upward. Write for Sample Pages, Free Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Deseret News Book Store PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assistant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A. SALT LAKE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS — May 1915

Mother Love — Martha Burton Cooley, 209
Sarah Ellen Richards Smith — Joseph F. Smith, 211
A Loving Tribute to Sarah Ellen Richards Smith — Julina L. Smith, 215
History of the Weber Stake Relief Society, 217
Notes from the Field, 224
Clothing for Women Past Forty — The Two Sarahs, 228
Home Gardening for Women, 230
In the Kitchen Laboratory — Hazel Love Dunford, 231
The Textile Arts — Rose H. Widtsoe, 232
A Prince of Ur, 235
Homespun, 239
Genealogy, 239
Current Topics — James H. Anderson, 240
Editorial, 242
Guide Lessons, 246

ADVERTISERS’ DIRECTORY

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah
AMERICAN THEATER
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City
BUTLER'S BOOTERY, Salt Lake City
CULLEN HOTEL
CUTLER'S, 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City
JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake City
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main & 260 State St., Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
MARIAN BANKS, Millinery
CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 242 South Main, Salt Lake City
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
PORTER-WALTON CO., Seedmen, Nurserymen & Florists, Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City
S. M. TAYLOR & CO., Undertakers, 251–259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City
THOMAS, Photographer
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City

 Oh mother! dear angel of comfort, Who soothes weary hearts to sweet rest; And makes them forget every sorrow, As they nestle so close to thy breast. Thy kind, patient heart, beating warmly With love that's so near to divine. In tenderness, charity, mercy, Reaches out toward dear ones of thine. No matter what heights they have clambered, Nor what dire depths be their fall. Thy mantle of love and forgiveness Envelopes and pardons them all. They're always thy jewels and treasures, Thou'rt constant as stars of the night; Thou'lt own them and lovingly clasp them, Till death closes out earthly light. Martha Burton Cooley SARAH ELLEN RICHARDS SMITH. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. MAY, 1915. No. 5 Sarah Ellen Richards Smith In Salt Lake City, March 22, 1915, Sarah E. R. Smith died; she was a daughter of President Willard Richards, and wife of President Joseph F. Smith. Her father was with the Prophet Joseph at his martyrdom, and was afterwards counselor to his friend and first cousin, Brigham Young. His daughter Sarah was possessed of her father's modesty, integrity, and cheerfulness. She was for many years a teacher in the Relief Society of the Seventeenth ward; and so fully did she magnify that important office, that today her name is, and will be forever, a fragrant memory to all amongst whom she ministered. To be such a faithful wife, such a devoted mother, such a valiant friend, and such an unostentatious teacher in this Society, constitutes a patent of nobility that no woman may excel and few equal. She has shown much interest in later years in the temple work for the Richards and Longstroth families, and has labored in the Salt Lake Temple when her time and strength would permit in behalf of her kindred dead. The following sketch of her life is taken from advance sheets of the album of Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and Their Mothers: By Joseph F. Smith. The history of the subject of this brief little sketch will probably never be told. Or, if it should be told, it would have to be by the ready pen of the skillful writer, who, though versed in the art of recording history and making character sketches, could never actually know the facts, or so affectionately relate them as could the writer, if gifted with a ready pen. Sarah Ellen Richards Smith is the daughter of the late President Willard Richards, a beloved and trusted companion of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who stood by the Prophet in the tragic 212 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. hour of his martyrdom in Carthage, Illinois. Her mother was Sarah Longstroth Richards, a woman of rare beauty and spirit, who was the mother of four children, two sons and two daughters, namely: Sarah E., Willard B., Joseph S., and Pauline. Sarah Longstroth Richards died in Salt Lake City, January 28, 1858, leaving her four children to the care of her sister, (Nanny Longstroth), who was also the wife of President Willard Richards. President Richards died March 11, 1854, in Salt Lake City. Sarah Ellen was born August 25, 1850, in Salt Lake City, only about three years and a half prior to her father's death, and was but little over seven years old at the death of her mother. Father and mother having passed beyond leaving their helpless little ones to the care of their widowed aunt, in the midst of the hard times, the poverty and destitution incident to the pioneer life of those early days in Utah, subjected the children all young — and the surviving members of the family to a life of hardship that may be imagined by persons acquainted with such scenes, but cannot be told in a brief memoir like this. Sarah Ellen was the eldest of her mother's two little girls, and remained for years in the care of her mother's sister, Aunt Nanny, who also had three children of her own, while the younger girl was cared for and raised by Alice Longstroth Watt, another sister of her mother. Later Sarah Ellen took up her abode with her oldest sister, Rhoda Richards Knowlton, who resided at that time in the Nineteenth Ward. It was at the home of this sister, in 1867, that she was first introduced to the fortunate youth to whom, on March 1, 1868, she was united for time and eternity in the holy bonds of wedlock. Almost immediately after her marriage she accompanied her husband to Provo, Utah county, where he with others had been called on a mission by President Brigham Young. At that time the entire possessions of her husband, together with those of her own, were easily packed in a small wagon — hired, with a team and driver, to convey them to their destination at Provo. Here they obtained a small adobe house of one room about 10x10, where they set up housekeeping. Having no means for their support, her husband had obtained employment in a cabinet shop, owned and managed by David Cluff, who afterwards became a very dear friend. He kindly offered the husband of the subject of this sketch standing employment in his shop at thirty cents an hour, so that at any time when he was not engaged in Church duties he could go to the shop, take up his tools, and go to work, whether only for one hour or for ten hours a day. Through this means the young husband fitted up their little home with bedstead, table, chairs and other furniture, mostly of his own make, under the direction of the master workSARAH ELLEN RICHARDS SMITH. 213 man, his employer. It is needless at this writing to give further account of their sojourn in Provo, at the end of which time, the object of their mission there having been accomplished, they were honorably released to return to Salt Lake City. On February 5, 1869, her first beautiful little baby girl was born. It has been said that her mother possessed rare beauty and spirit. It may be further said in all modesty that all the beauty and spirit of her beloved mother, and even greater charms, were bequeathed to her daughter. Their temporal circumstances began to improve, and by dint of hard work, prudence and economy, although passing through many hard times and trying scenes, they became, by the blessings of God, very comfortably, though never luxuriantly, supplied with the comforts of life. In the spring of 1877 she accompanied her husband on his third mission to Great Britain, to which he was sent, for the second time, to take the presidency thereof. It was with the understanding, as expressly stated by President Brigham Young, that this mission would not terminate under five years, and it was with his permission that Sister Smith accompanied her husband and took with her their little son, Joseph Richards, then four years old. However, on account of the death of President Young in August, 1877, they were released and returned home that fall. During the years 1897 and 1898 Sister Smith passed through a most trying period of sickness, very narrowly escaping death, and while slowly recovering from her lingering illness, on January 8, 1899, her husband started with her on a visit to the Sandwich islands. The sea voyage to and from Honolulu, and her brief sojourn in the delightful climate of those beautiful isles did much to accelerate her restoration to health. She returned home March 5, 1899. Sincehealth she has been active in the Woman's Relief Society work of the Church in the ward in which she lives, and never has she aimlessly idled away a moment of her precious life and time. Her mind and hands are ever diligent in the performance of some duty, or some commendable and worthy task. The character of Sister Sarah E. Smith is at once strong and well controlled. There is a quiet power about her spirit that manifests itself to all who come into her presence. .But with that power she unites the gentle tact of a true woman. So easy, so guileless so cheerful is her deportment that her company is eagerly sought by those who know her best. Her cheery laugh and her determined optimism, make her world a very beautiful place to live in. If one were to name the predominating trait of her character it would probably be her exquisite sense of order. The sensitive refinement of her soul best expresses itself in the dainty appointments of every material thing about her. So pronounced is 214 RELIEI' SOCIETY MAGAZINE. this trait that it radiates from both body and spirit like the delicate perfume of some lovely flower. United to that refinement of cleanliness isan indomitable energy which carries her through every task with rigid discipline. And yet, as has been said, the sweetness and true charity of her soul softens any asperity which might otherwise gather about such a character. For she is lovingly charitable. Living in a home where many individualities meet and mingle, no greater tribute to her high nobility and her deep spirited culture could be paid than to name the simple fact that out of all her honored husband's family there could be found no single wife or child who had aught but loving words of praise and esteem for beloved their ness could be "Aunt Sarah." What greater proof of true loveliness could be adduced? Sister Smith has not found it possible to get out of her home for many public duties. She has nestled her brood so closely about her knees that her own hearthstone has been at once their sole refuge and her one altar. Yet in the few public positions which she has been persuaded to hold, noticeably in the office of counselor to Mrs. Annie Hyde during the first years of the organization of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, Sister Smith proved herself adequate to every duty and responsibility. As a hostess she is thoughtful, gracious, discriminating and solicitous. Her table, when she entertains, is spread with the rich bounties of life. Her tact puts every guest at ease, while the purity of her character would prevent anything coarse or common from prevailing in her presence. This tribute would be incomplete if there was no mention made of the tender consideration which this good wife accords to her busy and burdened companion. Without trace of noisy assertiveness, she yet adapts herself so pleasantly to all outer conditions that her presence soon becomes a veritable part of her surroundings. With it all, she makes the welfare of her husband and the happiness of her children at once her delight if not an important part of her religion. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her." Sarah Ellen Richards was a beautiful, faithful and noble girl. She has been a most beloved and cherished wife, a wise, careful, loving mother, a. genuine home-maker, and the mother of eleven children, in whom no parents on earth were ever more blessed or more happy. For more than forty-three years she has shed forth ever increasing joy and happiness upon the life of her husband, her home and family; and her children and her children's children, to the latest time, will joyfully call her blessed. SARAH ELLEN RICHARDS SMITH. 215 A Loving Tribute to Sarah Ellen Richards Smith. By Julina Lambson Smith. "Not dead but sleeping," and sweet is thy memory to me, Aunt Sarah, as are the recollections of our associations through the 48 years that we have journeyed together always sharing each other's joys, loves and sorrows. Mere girls, we were, when we started life together. I the mother of one little one, when two years after my marriage "Papa" brought you home his wife. Then came a call for "Papa" to move to Provo. Having the responsibility of my home and baby, you went with him, remaining there six months, during which time he traveled almost constantly in the ministry. How happy I was when you both returned! You making my home yours, until together we had prepared your home for you — separate apartments under the same roof. A few years together, Joseph, you and I, and then again our family was increased, the home made larger and Aunt Edna came, to make a triangle of happiness with our husband as the center controlling bond of love. My large dining-room was always the personal property and common gathering place of all. Even now I can hear the laughter of our children as they played about us before being kissed, and tucked in their beds. There, too, I can see the evening picture of three tired but happy mothers, often busy with kneeless stockings, seatless trousers or other articles of clothing needing buttons or stitches; or with, perhaps, something good to read or ideas to exchange. As often as possible our papa was with us but oftener we three were alone, for we were the wives of a soldier of the truth whose armor was always on. If those old walls could speak they would tell of some of the happiest hours of our lives. Eleven children called you mother. Eleven was my number, too. Four boys and seven girls for each. While to Aunt Edna was given ten — evenly divided. No wonder the recollections of the "Old Home" are associated with children's voices! No wonder the names of "Papa" and "Mama" instead of those more dignified are familiar to us! After twenty-six years under the same roof, though it had been enlarged from time to time, the "Old Home" became too small, so it was left to and mine, and new homes were erected for you and Aunt Edna. The family triangle was changed into a star, our babies grew to man and womanhood, our hair turned gray and still we were not separated until — to satisfy public 216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. opinion— our husband and father was separated from us and our lives were changed. This was the greatest trial of all, but I suppose such happiness could not last forever. Though you have left us sorrowing I know your five precious ones, Aunt Edna's four, and my one who preceded you, are rejoicing" in this reunion. As we stood by each other to assist and welcome the new-born, so we stood side by side when the angel of death visited our home. Your place is vacant now. Aunt Sarah, but memory is sweet. Our love has grown stronger with the passing years and today I feel your absence as keenly as if you were my own sister — my own flesh and blood. I am looking forward with joy to the happy reunion which will come when we, who remain for a season, will join you on the other side; for all the bliss that ever comes to earthly human homes has been ours and perfect happiness will be ours in eternity. We miss you tonight. Aunt Sarah, We miss you at noon, and at morn Our eyes are heavy, our hearts are sad. The companion we loved is gone. Yet a voice of sweet comfort whispers — "Lift up thine eyes! Weep not! The sister thou lov'st is smiling on thee. Thou shalt not be forgot.'' , A WORD TO THE WISE The General Insurance Committee wish to make one point clear to all our workers in the Relief Society. The Insurance Plan which has been adopted and approved by our leaders is in the nature of a privilege rather than a duty. It is an opportunity for the women of this Church to be protected, which has advantages of which only those who are converted may understand the value and importance. We have prepared the plan as carefully as we may, and are very glad to find the response increasing from the ranks of our sisters. If it could be possible to have all of our 10,000 teachers insured, think of the blessing it would be to every Society in the Church. Those who have charge of this Committee at Headquarters have no financial interest in this matter, as regards payment or wages; it is only a realization of the convenience that can be derived from habits of saving, and from protection of missionary and burial expenses that has induced us to push this matter in the Society. History of Weber Stake Relief Society (Historical Sketch of the First Stake Relief Society in the Church.) The Ladies' Relief Society of Ogden was first organized in the spring of 1855. The need of such a society being very apparent, a number of the leading ladies of the city met and with the assistance of the presiding authorities, President Lorin Farr and counselors and Bishop James Browning, effected an organization, with Mrs. Palmer, President; Martha Knight and Abigail Abbott, counselors; Mary W. Brown, secretary; Phoebe Brown, treasurer. Among the teachers and members were Keziah Davis, Esther Rapor, Mary Ann Yearsley, Mary Black, Harriet Critchlow, Marcia Allen, Ann Glasgow, Lydia Brown, Charilla Browning, Alice Hill and Ellen Davis, some of whom are still living and actively engaged in Society work. And no doubt there are others in our midst who also belonged to the Society whose names we have been unable to get. Although the records have been lost we feel assured of the value and quality of their labors. The work of the Relief Society, whenever or wherever it is called into existence, is to feed the hungry, to clothe the naked, to visit and comfort the sick, to care for the dead, to reclaim the erring, to bind up the broken-hearted — in short, to assist in every good work. In consequence of the Move south, in 1858, the Society was disorganized and remained so for several years after the return of the people to their homes. It was again organized by Sister Eliza R. Snow, December 16, 1867, Mrs. Mary West, president Nancy Farr and Harriet C. Brown, counselors; Louise Hopkins, secretary; Mary Ann West, treasurer. President Lorin Farr, Bishop Chauncey W. West, and other brethren, were present and assisted in the work of organizing. For nearly three years Sister West presided over the Society, being much respected and loved by the sisters, who, by their works as well as by their faith and prayers, sustained her in her noble endeavors to perform faithfully the work which her office enjoined upon her. Her labors were crowned with success, and the Society prospered exceedingly with her at its head. Among the many interesting occasions connected with the Relief Society in which she participated was a mass meeting held by the ladies of Ogden in the tabernacle, March 17, 1870, at which meeting she was chosen, by unanimous vote, to preside. After stating the object of the meeting she gave briefly her sentiments 218 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in regard to unwise legislation, protesting against the Cullom Bill, and defending plural marriage. May 24, 1869, the Ladies' Co-operative Mercantile and Millinery Institution of Ogden (an outgrowth of the Relief Society) was organized, with Sister West as president. Here she found a new field of labor. But by the united efforts of the members of the Society and of the people in general, throughout Weber County, together with the assistance of her husband, Bishop Chauncey W. West, and that of Apostle F. D. Richards, who kindly gave their time and the benefit of their superior wisdom and experience, a building was erected, a large amount of stock subscribed and business corresponding to the name of the institution was established and successfully carried on. Sister West retained this position, also that of President of the Relief Society, ever presiding with characteristic dignity, and wisely directing the affairs of both associations, until suddenly removed by the hand of death. This sad event occurred August 27th, 1870. Her sudden departure was no doubt hastened by the great affliction occasioned by the loss of her husband, who died a short time before, and to whom she was devotedly attached. But though taken from our midst, her influence for good still remains, and those who were favored and blessed in being associated with her, while regretting her loss, remember with pleasure the labors of love to which her kind heart and charitable disposition ever prompted her. The Society felt, also, that by the death of Bishop West they had lost a staunch friend, a wise counselor and a hearty co-worker in all their undertakings. In his office as Bishop he was actuated by a spirit of extended benevolence and a kind consideration for those who appealed to him for favors or assistance. This brief tribute to the memory of Brother and Sister West we feel is due to them as an expression of our appreciation of their labors. The Society being disorganized by the circumstance of Sister West's death, was again reorganized October 27, 1870, Apostle F. D. Richards and Bishop L. J. Herrick assisting, with Harriet C. Brown, president; Martha Bingham and Sarah A. Herrick, counselors; Aemlia M. Frodsham, secretary; Roseltha Canfield, treasurer. Under the guidance of these ladies, the Society continued in the good work already commenced, until August 8, 1872, when Sister Brown, having been released by her own urgent request, Sister Jane S. Richards was chosen President by the unanimous vote of the Society. She chose for counselors, Harriet C. Brown and Sarah A. Herrick. Amelia M. Fordsham and Roseltha Canfield were sustained as secretary and treasurer. On the 22nd of the same month President Jane S. Richards and counselors were blessed under the hands of Apostle Richards HISTORY OF WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY. 219 MRS. JANE S. RICKTARDS. and Bishop Herrick to labor not only in the Relief Society of Ogden, but also to visit and counsel the ward societies throughout Weber County, which had been organized from time to time. Sister Richards felt to shrink from the responsibility thus placed upon her, having had very little experience in Relief Society work, and her health being much impaired by a long and severe illness. But Sister Eliza R. Snow promised her that if she would accept the position she should have health and be enabled to perform every duty. The sisters also encouraged her by their faith and earnest support. It was with many misgivings, however, that she entered upon the duties of her office. Through the blessings of the Lord and her untiring and energetic labors the Society awakened into new life, and although nearly forty years 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. have elapsed since that time, the interest then aroused has steadily increased and extended. The Society has grown in importance, and to a great extent its labors have come to be appreciated. This has been accomplished not only by the united efforts of the sisters in carrying out her counsels, but by their unselfishness and perseverance in striving to perform acceptably the many and ofttimes trying labors expected of them. A wide sphere of usefulness is open to the Relief Society, but its first and most important work has ever been to assist in providing for the poor and caring for the sick. And the aim of all business enterprises entered into by the Society has been to procure means by which to increase their power for doing good in that direction. A Relief Society Millinery Store was built on ground leased for that purpose and dedicated by President Brigham Young. By means of generous donations the house was paid for and the millinery business established and successfully conducted for eight years, under the general supervision of the presidency of the Society. In 1882, the lease for the ground having expired, and those interested deciding to discontinue the business, the store with its fixtures was sold and the proceeds divided among the four societies of the city. (Separate societies having been organized in each ward in the year 1879). Sister Richards was thus, in a measure, released from the increasing cares and labors of the Society, and was afforded a better opportunity of attending to the duties of her calling as President of the Central Board of the Relief Societies of Weber County. The Society also interested itself in the culture of silk. An organization was formed with Mrs. Mary Kay as President and Mary E. Kay as Secretary. Hundreds of trees were planted throughout the city and county, under the direction of the presidency of the various Relief Societies, and much time and labor expended, also some means. The result showing that the only requisite wanting to make this industry a success is capital. The storing of wheat, according to suggestions from President Young, forms an interesting feature in the history of the Society. Many hundreds of bushels have been collected, granaries have been built in several wards and in some places the ground has been purchased on which to erect them. There is also some money on hand with which to buy wheat when it is considered wisdom to do so. It is impossible to enumerate the many ways in which the great amount of means received into the Society has been disbursed. We have already stated a few of them and will add that, besides the constant drain upon the resources of the Society for charitable uses, large sums were given for emigration and misHISTORY OF WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY. 221 sionary purposes, and still larger sums to the Logan and Manti temples, and the Deseret Hospital. The many new and beautiful ward meeting houses and buildings recently erected in different parts of the country, if they could speak, would testify to the liberality of the Relief Society. And so on, we might continue indefinitely and after all only approximate the real sum of all their labors. The better part of woman's work cannot be expressed in dollars and cents. There is a spiritual, a devotional part, a part where love, charity, patience, self-sacrifice and devotion to duty, are the capital stock. WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY HALL. If we could number all the meetings that have been attended, under unfavorable as well as favorable circumstances, all the miles that have been traveled in performing duties pertaining to the Society, the nights and days spent with the sick and the dead, the hours of anxiety spent by those presiding, in planning for the spiritual as well as temporal welfare of their fellow-creatures, the noble examples of persevering labor, in spite of bodily pain and physical weakness, the many testimonies fervent with the holy spirit and the hope of the eternal life, — if all these could be num222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. bered and added to the financial report, the aggregate would still be an imperfect showing of what has been accomplished by the Relief Society. Another item of Relief Society work, although not of a financial character, is yet of interest as being the means by which a great amount of good has been accomplished, and showing, also, our beloved President Jane S. Richards as an energetic public-spirited woman. We refer to the work commenced by her among the young people of Ogden. She called a meeting of the young ladies including girls over eight years old. Over eighty responded to the call and listened attentively while she addressed them. Among many other things she spoke of her great desire for their improvement and the deep interest she felt in their present and future welfare. The meeting was one long to be remembered, and the young ladies expressed a wish to meet again. From that time the meetings were continued, Sister Richards presiding, until a Young Ladies' organization was formed. The young men, seeing the interest and zeal of the young ladies and feeling the good influence, manifested a desire to attend the meetings. The result was that evening meetings were held. Sister Eliza R. Snow being present at the first one. The seed thus sown has brought forth the rich fruit of organization among the youth of Zion. Sister Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. Young and other prominent sisters (by invitations from Sister Richards) were frequent visitors at those meetings, inspiring and encouraging the young by their wise and loving counsel. Many refreshing and joyful seasons have also been afforded the Relief Societies by the visits of these sisters, their presence always insuring a happy and profitable time. Great praise is due Sister Richards, who gave unsparingly her time and means to bring about these enjoyable occasions, thereby causing the Societies to be built up and their labors greatly improved and extended. She, as also Sisters Snow and Young, endeared themselves to the people of Weber county by their unselfish devotion to duty and their life-long, earnest endeavors in the cause of truth. But the occasion of all occasions, to which the Relief Society looks back with pride, is that of President Brigham Young's visit to Ogden, July 19, 1877. He came by Sister Richards' request to talk to the sisters of Weber county. A large and appreciative congregation assembled in the tabernacle and listened with rapt attention while he delivered an unusually interesting and instructive address. At the close of the meeting, he appointed another to be held three months from that time, to which he requested the Relief Societies to bring reports of their labors up to that date and if possible he would be present. The meeting HISTORY OF WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY. 223 thus appointed was held October 30, 1877, being the first Relief Society conference, and the commencement of Relief Society stake organizations* throughout the stakes of Zion. President Young, however, did not live to attend that conference. But the influence of his spirit and teachings was there, and the record of that day marks an era in Relief Society history. Sister E. R. Snow kindly assisted in presiding on that occasion. She called a vote to sustain Mrs. Jane S. Richards, president; Harriet C. Brown and Sarah L. Herrick, counselors; Amelia M. Frodsham, secretary; Emily S. Richards, treasurer; in their position in the central board. The vote was unanimous. It may be well to note here the changes which have taken place in the offices of the association. Since the reorganization, in 1872, Roseltha Canfield, who was treasurer at that time, resigned December 12, 1872, and Huldah M. Ballantyne was chosen on the same day to succeed her. June 11, 1874, Sister Ballantyne resigned, and Elizabeth Y. Stanford was appointed treasurer. May 27, 1875, Sister Stanford resigned and Emily S. Richards was elected to that office, in which she continued to act until May 10, 1879, at which time Mrs. Melissa Hall was chosen treasurer. In 1887 she resigned, and in September of that year Miss Hattie Brown accepted that position. Our Secretary, Sister A. M. Frodsham, who was elected to that position October 27, 1870, continued in that calling until January 24, 1880, making ten years of faithful work in the Society. She took great delight in the performance of her duties, and when her health failed and she could no longer record the testimonies of the sisters, she felt that very little of life's pleasure was left in her. For a year before her death she occupied the position of president in the Primary Association of the Fourth ward, and acted in that capacity with an earnest desire to do good. Her successor in the Relief Society Stake Board was Miss Monta Poulter. She commenced her work in that capacity March 18, 1880, and during her term of service she proved herself a faithful and efficient officer. Having in the meantime assumed the duties of married life, and being about to leave Ogden for a home farther north, her resignation was tendered and very reluctantly accepted, the Society sincerely regretting that circumstances necessitated her removal. The office of secretary being thus made vacant, Mattie A. Cannon was elected to take that place, September 10, 1885. June 20, 1884, Sarah A. Herrick, so long a part and parcel of the Relief Society, resigned her position as counselor to President Richards in consequence of having been called to preside in the *This is the first stake organization of the kind perfected in the Church. 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Central Board of the Young Ladies' Associations of Weber county. Her resignation was accepted with reluctance, although we felt to congratulate her upon her extended opportunities for usefulness. Her husband, Bishop L. J. Herrick, deserves honorable mention here. During the term of his office as Bishop, he took a lively interest in the affairs of the Society, and very materially aided and encouraged it in all its labors. The affliction that so long prevented him from continuing the good work he was so well fitted to perform, finally caused his death. The vacancy caused by the retiring of Sister Herrick from the presidency of the Society was supplied by the election of Sister Emily Shurtliff to that position. The officers of that organization were at that time: Jane S. Richards, President; Harriet C. Brown and Emily Shurtliff, Counselors; Mattie A. Cannon, Secretary; Hattie C. Brown, Treasurer. Sister Harriet C. Brown died Dec. 27, 1907, after having been a faithful Relief Society officer for many years. Mattie A. Cannon and Hattie C. Brown resigned, but Sister Richards continued MRS. EMILY M. SHURTLIFF. HISTORY OF WEBER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY. 225 as president with Sister Emily Shurtliff as counselor, until Weber Stake was divided. One noteworthy accomplishment of the Relief Societies of Weber Stake was the Relief Hall built by the contribution of the sisters. This building was dedicated on the 25th anniversary of the Stake organization, July 19, 1902. Sister Jane S. Richards presided over and addressed the meetings. Many prominent people attended, and all enjoyed the proceedings. At a conference of the Weber stake, held in the tabernacle, Aug. 9, 1908, President Jane S. Richards of the Weber Stake Relief Society was honorably released and Sister Emily M. Shurtliff was sustained as president, with Sister Agnes Herrick as first and Sister Elizabeth G. McCune as Second Counselors. These officers continued until recently with Aggie H. Stevens as Secretary, Elizabeth D. Thomas, Treasurer, with the following Board members: Hannah Poulter, Mercy R. Stevens, Alice Harris, Mary S. Boyle, Emma Shreeve, Martha Cooley, Ellen J. Stevens, Jane L. Warner, Mabel Ure. The seven years that Sister Shurtliff acted as President of the Ogden Stake Relief Society was filled with active and beneficent service. The whole tone and tenor of her administration was obedience to the priesthood and harmony among her associates. She was the soul of gentle kindness and no more devoted wife and mother ever lived. Associated with her honored husband, President Lewis W. Shurtliff, she radiated peace and courtesy throughout her stake. She was buried January 10th, 1915, and the funeral services were most beautiful and impressive. On March 11th, 1914, the reorganization of the Stake Board took place, General President Emmeline B. Wells, Counselors Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith being present. The following officers were appointed: Agnes H. Stevens, Prest. Elizabeth D. Thomas, First Counselor Almira C. Rich, Second Counselor Joan W. Emmett, Secretary Alice Harris, Treasurer Mabel Ure, Organist Ellen J. Stevens, Chorister BOARD MEMBERS: Agnes Herrick Emma Shreeve Elizabeth G. McCune Martha B. Cooley Hannah Poulter Jane L. Warner Mercy R. Stevens Mary S. Boyle Notes from the Field. We present an extract from a letter written by Elder G. M. Southwich to the Lehi First Ward Relief Society, concerning the work now going forward in Great Britain: "I am sure that you sisters would be glad to know something of the work which your co-laborers are doing in this far away land. The Relief Societies in the British Isles are in far better condition today than they have been for sometime past. The credit for this state of affairs must justly be given to Sister Ida B. Smith, wife of President Hyrum M. Smith of the European Mission, who, during the months of October and November of last year, made a visit to each conference in the mission and held meetings with the presidents of organizations explaining the duties of members and the method of conducting meetings, etc. Since that time she has been in communication, through correspondence, with every organization in England, and has undoubtedly given an impetus to Relief Society work in this land. During the last three months eighteen new societies have been formed, making a total of forty-two in the mission. Prior to the time of Sister Smith's visits many of our organizations were in a very unsatisfactory condition. The meetings seemed to be devoted, more or less, to idle talk, with the result that very little was accomplished. From the reports which now come in, it would seem that a thorough awakening has taken place, a new spirit exists, and in place of wasted time, a well conducted program is listened to, which does not interfere with their work, but instead, elevates and strengthens in every sense of the word. The attendance has been greatly augmented, even by non-members, and the work of visiting among the Saints has been increased ten-fold. And so I conclude that the unsatisfactory condition existing was not due to insincerity, but to lack of knowledge as to the proper course to pursue, and the need of constant supervision by a competent sister from Zion. Perhaps one of the greatest works ever done by the Relief Society organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in foreign lands is that now being conducted by the sisters of the British Isles today, in assisting the relief work carried on in behalf of the British soldiers. When cold weather set in, a request was made by the government that the women of the kingdom direct their efforts toward making warm articles for those at the front. It was suggested that woolen scarfs, socks, belts, mittens, etc., be knitted and handed to a committee having charge of this work. Here was a splendid opportunity for the despised "MorNOTES FROM THE FIELD. 227 mon" women, whose Church has suffered so many times the injustice of thoughtless people, who, through the government, now sought their aid. And they took advantage of it. Each organization was able, through special effort, to raise money with which to buy wool and the work of making these articles was taken up in earnest. At the time of writing over one thousand articles have been handed in to the proper authorities of the different cities in England, and the Relief Societies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have received credit on the books which contain such records. Very grateful acknowledgments from these authorities have been sent to our Relief Society presidents, in which they highly praise the efforts of our organizations. Our little Society in Liverpool has contributed a greater number of articles than any other church organization in the city and you can realize that it is having an effect upon the women who have charge of the work. Never before was the work of the "Mormon" Church brought so favorably before the upper class of people in this land as through this special work of the sisters, and we are sure that the result will be a blessing to the work of the Lord. Besides the effect upon the outsiders, it has wrought wonders within. Organizations which at one time were divided, because of indifference and misunderstandings, are now united by the bond of love and a common cause. A greater number of visits are now being made, more work is being done for the poor and destitute, the "peace on earth good will to men" spirit is taking a firmer hold upon each member, and the generally flourishing condition of the Relief Societies of the British Mission, brings joy and gladness to our hearts. Relief Society Extension Work in Cache Stake. A most interesting experiment is reported from Cache stake. Desirous of interesting more women in the Society, while broadening the usefulness of charitable assistance to those in need, the Relief Society Stake President appointed a committee to co-operate with the ward committees. These committees arranged a luncheon last 4th of July on the Public Square, selling cake and ice cream. The sum realized — $95.85 — was added to by liberal donations from the merchants; and great sewing bees were held, many non-members assisting enthusiastically; clothing was made; stockings for invalid mothers were darned; and wholesale gifts and assistance was thus rendered to the Logan sick and needy. Other associations and organizations joined in the movement, and thus was established the best and purest kind of "extension work." Clothing for the Woman Past Forty. By The Two Sarahs. SPRING ADAPTATIONS. Spring, the most glorious season of the year, is with us, and all nature awakens. The violets are peeping from beneath their snowy beds, the birds are singing, and all nature is rejoicing. We plan for our gardens and flowers, for spring cleaning and school festivals, and last, but not least, our wardrobe claims our attention. Have we anything wearable for the bright sunny days when we really must discard our winter coats, which sometimes cover a multitude of undesirable clothing? How shall we know what is best to wear? The season between seasons is a vexed problem for woman to solve. Many of us feel we must wear our winter clothes through this spring of surprising changes until that fickle dame fashion has settled on a fair, simple style for summer and for several coming seasons. It is a question with most women as to the best time to buy or make a street suit — spring or fall. Some of the advantages for buying or making early in the season, is the satisfaction of having a complete change from winter clothing. We get good service from a sensible blazer suit, for our jacket comes in good on summer evenings, and is just the thing in the early fall. We also get the new shades and styles by buying early in the season. Every woman should have a blazer suit, that is, a coat and skirt of the same material. A great deal of silk will be used in spring costumes. The taffeta petticoat is again coming into use. The old-fashioned pockets are revived, imitation pockets, and pockets for actual use. Black and white combinations will doubtless be the leading color feature. We welcome the return of the shirt waist. The essentials of a wardrobe are many and varied. We should remember the necessity of perfect cleanliness in neck wear. We should be careful in buying or making guimps, lace yokes or chemisettes. They should always be chosen with an eye to their practicability. For unless these accessories are made to withstand continued laundering, they are the most extravagant part of a woman's wardrobe. In making a serviceable chemisette to wear with a street dress, cover a high-necked corset cover that buttons in the back — if necessary, cover both back and front with chiffon or silk to harmonize with dress material. Make small bows of baby ribbon or velvet; place small buttons in the center of bows and sew at intervals down CLOTHING FOR WOMEN PAST FORTY. 229 the front. This chemisette will serve two purposes — it may be a corset cover and a chemisette. For dressy occasions, take a fine piece of white muslin, put in tucks and lace insertion alternately. Join together insertion for collar, bone and finish with narrow lace. The high collar is again used, and is most becoming to the person with a long neck. The greatest change in the fashionable dress, is the decided and ever increasing width of the skirt. This feature is developed to the utmost in the spring models. We will aid the cotton industries if we make a one-piece dress in the new style. Use the inside belt mounting, have it long enough to go around the waist, and allow a hem at each end as a foundation for hooks and eyes. Bring the skirt up one inch and sew to belt. Fit waist to belt, and cover with belt or girdle. The skirt must fit snugly about the hips, no matter how full it is cut, or whether it be circular or plaited. Calico, gingham or lawn will make up charmingly in these one-piece dresses. Sombre and neutral colors are indicated for spring wear. Hooks and eyes will not drop off, if instead of sewing them on with over and over stitch, you use the button-hole stitch. An easy way to adjust snap fasteners, is to sew the ball section on first, and then cover the top with chalk, a slight pressure will mark the exact spot where the socket section should be placed. The Provo Woolen Mills are making a specialty of suits and separate skirts for women, in home-made goods. A woman should study her own style; hunt out your best points, and hide her poor ones. WHY WE OPPOSE POCKETS FOR WOMEN. 1. Because pockets are not a natural right. 2. Because the great majority of women do not want pockets. If they did, they would have them. 3. Because whenever women have had pockets they have not used them. 4. Because women are expected to carry enough things as it is, without the additional burden of pockets. 5. Because it would make dissension between husband and wife as to whose pockets were to be filled. 6. Because it would destroy man's chivalry toward woman if he did not have to carry all her things in his pockets. 7. Because men are men and women are women. We must not fly in the face of nature. 8. Because pockets have been used by men to carry tobacco, pipes, whisky flasks, chewing gum and compromising letters. We see no reason to suppose that women would use them more wisely. — Alice Duer Miller in New York Times. Home Gardening for Women. (How to Produce Two Crops of Strawberries in one Season.) While my friend and I were visiting through Utah county, late last November, we chanced to take dinner at the Hotel Roberts, in our beautiful Garden city, Provo; and to our surprise, found on the menu card, "Fresh strawberries and cream." Curious at once as to whether they were imported berries, or those put up fresh in bottles, we inquired of the maid who waited upon us, and found they were neither the canned nor imported berries, but raised on the East Bench, in Provo. We learned also that they were the second crop of the season — as succulent and crisp, and as fine a flavor as those produced in the early summer. So anxious were we to see the fruit growing, and to meet with one who had made it possible to successfully produce such delicious fruit, that our friend and President Mrs. Martha Keeler drove us up in her auto to the farm. Here we met Mr. A. O. Andelin, and we had the unique experience of seeing the berries growing, picked and packed for market. We inquired of him as to the kind of berry vines, he used, the method of producing them, etc. We asked Mr. Andelin if he would tell us just how to proceed with a strawberry patch, in order to have success. He was delighted with the idea, and the following is the method used, as related by him: "Have the berries well trained and mulched, and in early spring, cultivate and water them freely. They must of necessity, have good sunlight and rich sandy loam. After the first crop is gathered, mow off the tops rather close, cultivate between the rows and mulch again; let rest, without irrigating, for five or six weeks, then water as in early spring, and you will soon be rewarded with a fine second crop of strawberries, for which you will receive a handsome price." He said cultivation and fertilization were very important points to remember. We were at his farm about November 4, 1914, and though so late in the season, he still had a splendid crop yet to gather and market, selling them at 20c per cup. If any of our readers wish to communicate with Mr. Andelin, or secure strawberry plants from him, address Provo, Utah, care B. Y. U., and he will be pleased to accommodate you with plants or information, or both. In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hazel Love Dunford. PAYING MORE THAN NECESSARY. There is scarcely a day goes by that the newspapers do not contain articles calling our attention to thousands and thousands of starving individuals. On all sides, we are asked to give aid to this or that fund, for the benefit of some poor creature far away, who is perhaps dying for the want of something to eat. One hardly dares to enjoy good, wholesome food for fear of robbing some fellow being of that which may rightfully belong to him. And yet authorities tell us if the American people would consent to nourish themselves scientifically and economically, they could take care of every starving person at home and abroad, without contributing a cent over and above that which would be saved by so doing. If this be the truth, isn't it about time for us to say, "about face" to ourselves, and get busy and learn how this right can be done? There are many things nowadays put on the market in the way of foods, to attract the eye. If goods are made to look nice, they are sure to sell. This point is a good one, but I'm afraid we are often times led away by it. We are apt to pay too much for the extra "good looks" of an article. The other day, a neighbor of mine telephoned the butcher for some chipped beef. "We don't keep it any more, except in glass jars. It is so much more sanitary," came the answer, and so she ordered a glass to be sent up, and she came in to show it to me; thirty cents and barely enough for dinner, and three adults in the family and two children. "I might as well have had a beefsteak," she said; and so she might, and at less expense, for when you consider the butter or drippings and the cost of milk to cream chipped beef, you have rather an expensive dish. And yet, when one serves chipped beef, one wants to feel that one is economizing. It is impossible to economize at this rate. Is there any reason that chipped beef should be sliced and put up in glass jars? Decidedly not. To really economize, one must be ever watchful, or one is sure to be "taken in" with just such buying. Foods that are put up in expensive packages, as a rule, cost from three to four times more than the same article sold in bulk. For instance, cornmeal, bran, cracked wheat, peanut butter, and so on; breakfast foods, especially those ready prepared, cost too much for the nutritive value they contain. Where one is studying strict economy, one better not buy such food simply because it comes in attractive packages. The Textile Arts. By Rose H. Widtsoe. WOOLEN FABRICS. The most important fiber of animal origin is the wool of the domestic sheep. There are many animals whose hairy coverings are used for textile fabrics, but the sheep furnishes the best fiber. The use of wool for spinning and weaving reaches far back into prehistoric times. Just when or how man discovered the use of wool for making cloth is not known. The skeletons of sheep are often found with the skeletons of prehistoric man, showing that it was early a domestic animal; and because of its easy adaptability to spinning, wool may have been the first fiber so used. Certain authorities hold that wool spinning originated with the Egyptians and that they first spun flax; therefore when they began to spin wool after the manner of flax they produced the smooth, even thread later known as worsted, rather than the soft, loose thread of woolen. The Egyptians may or may not have been the first people to spin wool, although as far as can be discovered the textile arts reached in Egypt the highest development at so early a period. There are many varieties of the domestic sheep. Cultivation has greatly improved the character of the fiber, which is of two kinds: true wool, which is soft and curly; and hair, usually longer and stiff. The quality of the wool differs according to the breed, climate, food, care, soil, and the health of the animal. For centuries the Spanish Merino produced the finest wool and so jealous were the Spanish people of their supremacy in wool that a law prohibited the exportation of sheep from the country. Not until 1840 were Merino sheep distributed to the other countries of Europe. Australia has proved one of the best countries for the production of a fine, crimpy wool. There the Spanish Merino has been crossed with English breeds. Our own country is rapidly developing a great sheep industry. There is a great difference in the quality of the wool produced by the wild sheep and the domestic sheep. The wild sheep in mountainous regions usually have a great deal of coarse hair mixed with the wool, also a greater amount of imperfectly developed wool, while the domestic sheep produces a soft, curly wool with practically no hair. Marked difference is found in the qualities of wool from the same fleece. The shoulders and sides furnish the best grade of wool, while that of the back is inferior. In importance, the wool industry is second only to cotton. THE TEXTILE ARTS. 233 Before the great Industrial Revolution in the eighteenth century, wool was most important, but the ease of preparation of cotton by machinery and the cheapness of production have placed it in the front rank. Considering the individual fiber, we find that wool has very important physical and chemical properties, which play a large part in determining how it is to be treated in manufacture. Chemically, wool is a protein substance, composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, sulphur, nitrogen, and phosphorus. In raw wool, there is a large proportion of foreign substance, dirt, and products secreted by the skin of the animal. The natural oil secreted keeps the fiber in a soft condition and must not be entirely removed. Suint or dried up perspiration is a secretion from the skin of the sheep: this material coats the fibers when they are on the back of the animal and keeps them from felting. It also keeps them soft after shearing. Strong alkali removes all oil, making the wool harsh and dry, and also destroys the fiber if the action is allowed to proceed far enough. Five per cent caustic soda dissolves wool at boiling temperature in ten minutes. This test may be used in determining the quality of a supposed woolen fabric. Wool is bleached with the fumes of sulphur or with hydrogen peroxide. The affinity of the animal fibers for dyestuffs is much greater than that of the vegetable fibers. Wool may be dyed by many different dyestuffs without difficulty and the color is quite lasting. Physically, the wool fiber is a complex arrangement of cells. An inner or medullary layer, containing the natural pigment may or may not be present; in highest fibers, pure white wool, they are lacking. The cortical or middle layer gives the fiber its strength and also absorbs dyestuffs. The outside layer consists of horny scales, generally overlapping each other, and projecting out from the surface of the fiber to a greater or less extent. This quality of the fiber gives wool its peculiar characteristic, that of felting together. These serrations on the surface of the fibers hook into each other, especially where heat and moisture are applied when the scales are more open. When dry again, they hold fast together. To this property the shrinking of wool is also due. For this reason woolen fabrics must be washed and rinsed in water of the same temperature. One should never use extremely hot water for washing woolen fabrics. Woolen materials should also be dried in the shade and pressed while slightly damp with an iron not very hot. In tensile strength and elasticity, wool fibers vary greatly. The structure of the fiber makes it elastic and also gives it strength. The kinky nature of the wool also makes it elastic. In its hygroscopic property, or power to absorb water, wool 234 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. stands first among the fibers, being able to absorb from thirty to fifty per cent of water without appearing wet, although the average amount of moisture absorbed is twelve to fourteen per cent. In many European markets, the price is regulated according to the amount of water the wool will absorb. The preparation of wool for the market and its manufacture is a long, intricate process, which it would be impossible even to outline in this article. Woolen fabrics enter largely into our clothing. The wonderful creations of various weaves from the woolen fibers are indispensable in making up one's wardrobe. The splendid broadcloths, suitings and fine, light weight woolen dress goods are the most popular fabrics in the market. Probably few people in active life need woolen underwear; it is often irritating and when one exercises the perspiration is not absorbed quickly enough and the skin becomes wet, a bad condition. Very young children, old people, and those who lead a sedentary life can wear woolen underwear to greater advantage because their skin is not kept warm by muscular activity. Woolen clothing is also a good protection against sudden exposure and extreme cold, but it need not be worn in direct contact with the body. Wool is the warmest fabric because it is more porous in its structure, and holds more air which is a splendid non-conductor. Sudden chilling of the body is impossible when woolen underclothing is worn, because of the fact that it gives up its moisture so slowly. The tests for the adulterations in woolen fabrics will be considered in a later article. HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. The General Board of the Relief Society has decided to publish a history of the Society. This will include, not only the story of the original organization in Nauvoo and its growth and development after the pioneers came to Utah, but a brief record of each Stake organization will be included. President E. B. Wells wrote a historical sketch of the Society for Appleton's Biographical Encyclopedia, and this will form the basis of the future work. The Board has appointed Susa Young Gates as historian, and a circular letter has been sent to the Stake Presidents for data. We hope the work will be prosecuted with vigor, for it has long been needed. Most of the other auxiliary organizations have a history in print, and we rejoice that the Relief Society will now have a complete record of its many noble and praiseworthy labors. This history will be the standard and authorized record of our own Society; and as such, we bespeak for it a wide and general acceptance by officers and members of the Relief Society. A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. Up from the filthy quarters of the slave markets, in the great city of Ur, three days after Abram's arrival, the odor of living, suffering, unclean humanity mingled with the scream of a slave girl, whipped with cruel thongs to force her to silence and obedience. The steaming, crowding masses of weak and vicious men and women wept, sung, cursed, and flouted each other with true oriental volubility. • It was the noontide; the sun of the southern plains hung like a ball of glowing fire in the sapphire blue of the low hanging skies. The crowded, dome-shaped, mud-walled hovels and huts under the high south walls of the city reeked with the scum of the lowest inhabitants. "What ails the jade?" queried an effiminate patrician youth, just passing by, whose snowy mantle was swept carelessly from his arm to allow him freedom in seizing the twisted face of the slave girl that he might inspect her qualities. He did not stop there; but with the taunt of his ribald young companions who had accompanied him in idle sport down to this lower region of their beautiful city on the Shinar Plains, ringing in his ears, he flung her scanty robe from her quivering body and with a fierce grunt of dissaproval, he cried shrilly: "Naught but carrion. Feed her to the buzzards, slave-seller. Why do you exhibit such bird-meat for sale in the open market?" The slave-seller glared with impotent rage thus to have his human wares exposed to possible buyers. The livid flesh of the poor slave girl quivered between the blows of her owner and the angry leprous cancers upon her skin, which glowed with livid fires. "There is fire within as well as fury without, my lord," she screamed, in the tongue of the Nubian. "Worse feasts than my body lie in thy acrid stomach, my lord. Dost remember Zarah?" and her great yellow-white teeth snarled like an angry animal as she clutched angrily at the youth's long, white mantle to tear it from his now shaking body. "Slave — viper — toad of the Nile — let me set foot upon thee as thou hast earned." The crowd of gaudily-attired young men sought to stay his hand but he had seized the dusky slave girl and was upon her body with strangling fingers before even her master could interpose to save his chattels. "What ho — for a dirty trickster," cried the slave-seller, as 236 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the furious youth crushed the life from the blackened throat of his victim, "you shall pay me thrice her value, you son of a Shemite." "Mardan," cried a young man in flowing brown robes who had pushed his way with massive shoulders into the midst of the melee. "Is this thy pastime? To consort with evil of the lowest — " and then seeing the jerking body of the slave-girl in the last throes of death, he gasped — "and to add murder to all thy bestial lusts. Oh my God, God of Heber, of Shem and of our father Noah — what are we coming to in this land of daylight crimes and midnight orgies! Nimrod may forgive you for this cruel unnecessary murder, but your God never will." "Who told thee to spy on me, thou sychophant? I am Mardan, and the son's son of thy father's father Noah, and am a son of Nimrod by adoption. My mother was an Assyrian princess. Who art thou? A reader of the stars — a maker of records — a follower of a forgotten religion. Cease thy constant preachments, or I'll serve thee as I've served this toad of the lower Nile." Mardan's face was purple with unholy passions, and he sprang boldly up to face his opponent, with flamboyant gesture, his arm raised as if to strike or crush the new opposer of his will, yet he knew full well as did Abram, that this by-play was mere bluster. The other youth, whose lion-like head was crowned with thick dark brown locks of waving beauty, threw up his face with calm courage, and something of proud contempt; there dwelt so much majesty in the stern glance that he cast down upon the slight, belligerent form of his kinsman that he looked a god amongst his mean surroundings. The narrow, dirty street was now crowded with a congested mass of blear-eyed, frowsy slaves, soldiers, thieves, professional thugs of the secret orders, and just as Mardan raised his arm to strike the newcomer, the slave-seller raised his own bludgeon to beat the murderer of his poor slave; but Mardan turned to him as quickly as a flash of forked lightning, and with two crossed fingers on his open palm, he gave a sign. The slave-seller backed from him, his lips muttering some incantations which became jibbering idiocy as he slunk away in terror from the youth who had thus cooled his fierce anger on the instant. The others of the patrician group of idlers and curiosity seekers saw a part of the play and some understood the secret sign and some only laughed in hardened glee at the rare sport of such a sight. The brown-haired prince who had seen this vicious by-play now stood with arms crossed upon his swelling breast while he said sternly to his kinsman: "Mardan. does this mean that you have joined the secret order of the Cushites?" The youth addressed was trying to adjust his disordered raiment and to push his way out of the reeking crowds who now A PRINCE OF UR. 237 surrounded the group thus strangely found in such quarters and at such a time. His face, distorted a moment since with wild anger and dastardly impulses, was now calm, as he masked his deepest emotions with an effort; then turned with some degree of calmness to his interlocutor and replied with a return of his usual oily courtesy: "Kinsman, you are not wont to pry into affairs that concern you not. What hath come to thee? Shall,1 report thee to Father Terah as a meddler and brawler?" The smooth irony in the tone stung the brown-haired man, and his fair cheek glowed with the covert taunt. But he controlled himself. By this time, several of the minions of the law were at the scene of the affray and both youths were at once the recipient of profound salaams from the dusky soldiers. "Take the body of this poor child," said the kingly Abram, "and give it burial. Here are coins with which to purchase decent burial robes. Report this deed, just as I give it to you to the captain of the South Gate. I will see him myself at the day-dawn of tomorrow and give him the verbal account, with the missive which shall be engraved for your use tonight upon tablets. Haste, for the people crowd to gaze upon the poor wretch." With silent fury, the handsome and dissolute young murderer gnashed his impotent teeth thus to see the superior homage and obedience paid to Prince Abram by both soldiers and people; a homage which his royal birth and his own secret associations and ceaseless efforts to ingratiate himself with the lords and over-lords of Assyria could never seem to buy. "Thou settest thyself up, Abram, as the keeper of the honor of Ur. We shall see what our father saith unto thee," Mardan cried. So saying, he swept his white robes over his fine young shoulders and with his followers, he managed to quit the horrid place of his recent murderous debauchery. What he lacked in physical prowess, he made up in facial symmetry. But the inherent weakness and vanity of his soul gave occasional bitterness to his bulging, blue eyes and paleness to his pasty skin. As ever, when in lustful anger, those pale blue eyes now seemed to start from their sockets in fearsome looseness, as they would drop upon his face in his transports of rage. The young prince Abram remained behind to soothe the excited crowds,, to direct the soldiers, and quiet the populace; then finally, after seeing the mangled body of the slave carried away in some order and decency, he passed hence murmuring in grieved accents: "To know that such things can happen unchecked and unquestioned inthe public streets of my beautiful Ur. Alas, what destiny are these licentious Chaldeans courting when rapine and 238 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. murder go unheeded on every side. It is because they scorn the truth, they trample the God Jehweh under their feet, and mock at His ordinances." He rapidly retraced his steps, leaving the lower portions of the crowded city behind him, as he sought the nearest way to his father's palace on the left of the city's principal gateways. It was past the mid-day hour, but the hot and glimmering rock paved streets were almost silent in the absence of any but laborers and soldiers, during this dreaded mid-day season. His own head ached with the pressure of the tragedy he had just witnessed, as much as through the glare of the merciless sun upon his now white-turbaned brown locks. His robe was lacking in the rich fringing and ornamentation of his fashionable companions, but there was something so majestic, so god-like in the very manner of this kingly youth that no one failed to turn and gaze after him as he swept quickly through the better streets of Ur. The blare of the silver trumpets on the towers of the great Temple of Elkanah smote his ear as he turned into the broad avenue which led into the scented gardens and terraces of those noble courts. He caught a glimpse of the white robes of his recent companions, just as they rounded the last white step which led up into the Temple terraced gardens. "From murder to feasting with the gods — " he muttered as his lips set grimly across his stern face. "What mockery and what consummate devilishness of life's best meaning do these rotten youths of Ur not develop? My God and my King — what may I do — what can I do — to stem this awful tide of wickedness." His face was quivering with impotent grief, and his heart burned like molten iron in his breast. Standing at the foot of the steps that led to the courts of wicked and idolatrous worship above, he cried aloud in the open street under the sinking sun — "God of Shem and of Noah, to Thee I dedicate my life — my body, my soul and my whole future! Here on these polluted steps I offer to the One God of the Earth my vows of eternal fidelity!" No attention was paid to his words, as many public vows were there uttered. And no answering voice from the heavens sealed his renewed covenant, but instantly there swept over his spirit a peace that stilled the raging waters of sorrow within and the light of heaven illumined his face as he slowly drew down his arms and resumed his walk eastward. (To be continued.) Genealogy. The Excursion to California. The Genealogical Society of Utah has been invited by President James A. Barr, Director of all the Congresses, to be held in San Francisco during the Panama-Pacific Exposition, to hold three sessions of the Utah Society during the last week in July, at which time there will also be held an international congress on Genealogy. The Utah Society has accepted this invitation, and they have appointed the following committee, on the California Congress: Joseph F. Smith, Jr., chairman; Joseph Christensen, Susa Young Gates, Elizabeth C. McCune, Janette A. Hyde, Jessie Penrose Jones. This Committee has met and formulated a partial program, which will be published later, and which will also be published by the Utah Society in pamphlet form, to use at the Exposition. The General Board of the Relief Society are represented on this committee, not only by Mrs. McCune and Mrs. Gates — who are members of the Board — but also by Mrs. Janette A. Hyde who, although a member of the Genealogical Society, has not been directly connected with the work of the Woman's Committee of that organization. She is, however, on the Genealogical Committee of the General Board of the Relief Society, and has been most active and useful on that committee. The Relief Society extension work will be reported in the evening session of Utah Day. at the Genealogical Congress. For that purpose, we are very anxious for a report, regarding all of the work accomplished in the various stakes, through the Genealogical Committees of the stake. This report was called for last fall, but we shall want another one sent in not later than the end of May, so that a proper report can be prepared to read in San Francisco at the Congress. Delegates will be chosen, and each stake genealogical committee will be invited to representation in the delegation which will go to San Francisco from this state. The rates will be sufficiently moderate to permit of a great many going to this Congress. *We have sufficient information to justify us in saying that $50 will be enough to pay the expenses of any reasonable delegate from this city to San Francisco and return, including a week's stop at the Fair, with board and lodging expenses included. It is hoped that President Anthon H. Lund, President Charles W. Penrose, Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Bishop Joseph Christensen, Recorder Duncan McAllister, Elder Nephi Anderson, and most of the members of the Woman's Committee will be there. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. South America is developing rapidly in civilization. In 1914, the Argentine republic alone spent over $10,000,000 for autos and auto trucks. The Governor of Utah vetoed the bill passed at the recent session of the legislature as a prohibition bill, and set forth that it was not in reality a temperance measure! The recent trouble at the University of Utah, briefly stated, was an effort of employes and beneficiaries of the institution to conduct its affairs in a manner out of harmony with the laws of the State; consequently the sentiment of well-informed people was opposed to the attempt. Whatever else may be the outcome, the damage done to the University as a temple of learning may not be repaired in a decade. Frances Frear of New York makes this timely remark, which should find a response in the hearts of women outside of as well as within the Empire State: "The girl who breaks over the conventions society has built up for its protection may deceive herself into thinking this is the way to have a good time, but in the end it always brings regret, and sometimes remorse over a blighted career." We would add that this remark applies with even greater force to the youths of Zion, for we have no double standard of virtue here. The more general use than at present of maize or Indian corn as an article of human diet is being urged in high official and society circles in the United States. The basis of this urging is much more in the prospective necessity for staple foodstuffs than in any superiority which corn has over wheat in the present ratio of consumption of the latter; it also affords another strong institution, coming from those in a position to know, of the wisdom of conserving a good supply of the staff of life for close-by emergencies. Up to the first of April, more than 60,000 Christians had been massacred in Turkey since the latter nation joined arms with Germany and Austria in the great European war; while the unnamable atrocities upon women and children are numbered by CURRENT TOPICS. 241 scores of thousands. This, added to Turkey's record in like lines for generations past, would seem to have filled the Turkish "cup of indignation" to the brim, and not only to justify but to demand that in the name of humanity the Ottoman rule in eastern Europe and western Asia should be brought to its close. Brig.-Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of the United States army, who went into San Juan county, Utah, to secure the surrender of the hostile Indians there, was entirely successful, and the trouble in that vicinity is ended. By his persuasive treatment he not only effected the arrest of the Indians for whom writs had been issued, but also brought about an amicable settlement of the whole difficulty, thus insuring peace and safety to both white and Indian inhabitants more effectively than could have been done through force of arms by any number of men. He adopted and carried to successful issue the methods used by the founder of this state, Brigham Young. Not the least of the food difficulties attending the European war is the transformation of the richest marine food-producing area in the world to a waste, so far as present production is concerned. No other area in all the seas has given to humanity such rich supplies of food as the strait which separates Great Britain from the rest of Europe. All of the belligerent nations except Turkey, and also Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Holland, and Switzerland, are sufferers from the war's interference with the North Sea fishing industry. Although the smallest of the nations concerned, yet Switzerland's normal purchases of fish from that region reached nearly a million dollars a year, which now is entirely stopped. The catch in the North Sea area is chiefly herring, haddock, cod, and plaice. Germany's developed desire to have Italy engage in the war specifically as an enemy to Austria is easily understandable. Italy was not on the side of Germany in the earlier months of the war, but was actually being pushed, by internal pressure, to action against the kaiser. The latter's diplomats succeeded in averting that enmity by advocating a cession of territory to Italy by Austria, and the latter's refusal directed the antagonism of Italy against the dual monarchy. The effect of this is that when the great war is ended, Italy will have friendly feelings towards Germany— feelings that will count mightily in Germany's favor in any settlement, since Italy also will be friendly with the allies which constitute Germany's antagonists. Truly, the "heathen Chinee" is no more peculiar than the ways of the diplomat. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utahed in her primal duty. No after sorrow on her part can restore to her children the reverence, the delicate comradeship and the beautiful devotion which should be as binding a cord between children and father as between children and mother. Another custom that is growing in our Over-Emphasis midst, is the undue emphasis placed upon on Motherhood. motherhood. Motherhood is exploited, extolled, and deified, until the very word strikes an inharmonious chord in the breast of a true wife and mother. Why shall a mother be remembered and a father be forgotten? Why invoke unnumbered blessings upon the head of a mother, and forget to comfort and cheer the burdened and weary father? If a mother has been a real mother ? and not a makeshift? she has begun her work by teaching her babies from the dawn of their comprehension until they leave her roof, that reverence and obedience belong to father and mother alike; and she is herself but a part of that glorious parenthood which will exalt and finally deify the race of mankind. 244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The mothers of the Relief Society should Parents' Duty take themselves and their motherhood very to Each Other, seriously. They should begin by teaching and to Their their children and their grandchildren to revChildren. erence the husband and the father in the home. His word should be law and his wishes paramount. The easiest chair, the best food, the most comfortable situation should be given to the man who gives his very life to the providing of comfort and sustenance for the inmates of his household; and this should be done, not because it is required, but because true love dictates that loving service. The intelligent father will return this teaching in kind to his children. He will see that the best is shared with mother, that the children show all reverence to her. If a young couple have begun life aright, they have discussed these matters and have agreed to train their children to respect both father and mother. This training must be mutual to be perfectly satisfactory. Let us have done with the separation of A Parents' parenthood into its component parts. If we Day. are to have a day for remembering mothers, let the mothers refuse to be so remembered unless the fathers receive first consideration. Only in that way shall fatherhood and motherhood come into its own and be worthy of the divine pattern set us by our Father and Mother in heaven. The Annual April Conference of the Relief Society of the Church convened April 2nd in the Assembly Hall, with President Emmeline B. Wells, presiding. There was the largest attendance and the most lively interest manifested in each session of the Conference witnessed in the Society for many years. All of the topics treated were given in a crisp and illuminating fashion that must have convinced the hearts of all present that the Relief Society is up and doing. President Wells presided with her usual gentle dignity, ably assisted by her Counselors Clarissa Williams and Julina L. Smith. The music was exceptionally fine, and every phase of the Conference was expressive and delightful. There is neither time nor space to give the full minutes of the Conference in this issue; but they will appear in our next number in full. Correspondents would confer a great favor on the Secretaries at Headquarters by giving the town, state and stake address ALWAYS, at the top of letters. Date and sign your letters with full name. EDITORIAL. 245 RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE CONFERENCES. The Relief Society stake conferences will be held during the months of May, June, July, and November. Those appointed for May, June, and July will be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences, while those appointed for November will be held independently. CONFERENCE PROGRAM. First Session. Public Session, Saturday, 2:00 p. m. Conjoint meeting of Relief Society and Primary Association. As this is a session of the stake quarterly conference, the meeting will be held under the direction of the stake authorities. Address ? "Place and Work of the Relief Society," by representative of the General Board of the Relief Society. Address ? "Pioneer Work," representative of the General Board of Primary. Remarks: Second Session. Business Meeting, Saturday, 4:30 or 7:30 p. m. (Note: Hour to be decided by the Stake Board.) Roll call. Report of stake by Stake President. Report of Relief Society activities by stake officers or by chairmen of committees. Discussion. Third Session. Officers' Meeting, Sunday, 9:00 to 10:30 a. m. CONFERENCE DATES. May 1 and 2 ? South Sanpete, San Luis, Summit, Taylor, Boise. May 8 and 9 ? Wayne, Emery, Millard, Juab, Alberta, St. Johns. May 15 and 16 ? Blackfoot, Bannock, Teton, Bingham, Pocatello, Malad, Snowflake. May 22 and 23 ? Maricopa, Big Horn, Young, Shelley, Panguitch. May 29 and 30 ? Kanab, St. Joseph, Rigby, Morgan, San Juan. June 5 and 6 ? Oneida, Union, Moapa, Star Valley, St. George. June 19 and 20 ? Uintah, Parowan, North Sanpete, Fremont, Tooele. June 26 and 27 ? Duchesne, Sevier, Deseret, Bear Lake. July 17 and 18 ? Benson, Beaver, Hyrum. July 24 and 25 ? Wasatch, Woodruff, Yellowstone, Cassia. November ? Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Bear River, Liberty, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Utah, Weber, Nebo, Cottonwood. (Carbon conference was held in March.) Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Lesson II ? Baptism for the Dead. (a) Baptism required of all human souls. (b) Spirits in Prison. (c) Vicarious Baptism During and After Paul's Time. (d) Necessary for Man's Eternal Welfare. QUESTIONS. 1. Why should all people born on the earth be baptized? 2. Who were the spirits in prison? 3. Where do the spirits go after death to await the resurrection? (See II Nephi 9:13; Alma 40:12-14; Moroni 10:34.) 4. What does the word vicarious mean? (See dictionary.) 5. What effect will a person's neglect in looking after his dead have upon himself or herself? Baptism for the Dead. ? That baptism is required from all capable of exercising faith and manifesting repentance is shown by the fact that provision is made in the gospel for the baptism of those who pass away without being baptized for themselves. In the spirit world, where the gospel is preached and the powers of the priesthood are exercised, faith and repentance are possible ? but baptism is not, it being an outward ordinance, having to do with a temporal element ? water ? and therefore to be administered in a temporal world. Since it is the soul that is baptized, not the spirit alone, baptism is impracticable in the world of spirits. Spirits in Prison. ? Peter's testimony concerning Christ's preaching to "the spirits in prison" during the interval between his death and resurrection ? spirits disobedient in the days of Noah, swept off by the deluge, and immured in eternal dungeons to await a day of deliverance; the apostle's figurative use of the GUIDE LESSONS. 247 ark and flood as symbols of baptism, that "doth also now save us;" and his further statement that "for this cause was the gospel also preached to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit," are too well known to need dwelling upon (I Peter 3:18-21; 4-6). Vicarious Baptism During and After Paul's Time. ? That baptism for the dead was practiced in the Church of Christ during Paul's time is evident from his oft-quoted words: "Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?" (I Cor. 15:29). That the practice continued after Paul's time, among some of the Christians of Asia, we learn from Epiphanius, a writer of the fourth century. It was forbidden by the Council of Carthage, A. D. 397. Vicarious work, when authorized of God, is acceptable to him. This should not startle the Christian mind, when it is remembered that the whole fabric of Christianity rests upon the vicarious work done by Jesus Christ for the redemption and salvation of those who were powerless to redeem and save themselves. Men cannot answer by proxy for the deeds done in the body, but there have always been ceremonies in the Church of Christ that one person might perform for another. The priest who ministers in behalf of the people is a type of the Great Mediator, "our only access unto God." If baptism had not been essential to salvation, Christ would not have told Nicodemus what he did; the apostles would not have been sent to "baptize all nations;" Peter, Paul, and other servants of God, would not have commanded Jews and Gentiles to be baptized, nor would they have emphasized the necessity of baptism in their writings. Moreover, they would not have troubled themselves about baptism for the dead, had it not been necessary for man's eternal welfare.? From Gospel Themes, by Orson F. Whitney. Genealogy. Third Week. Lesson III ? Approximating Dates. If the class will open their last lesson on Genealogy in the April Magazine, on page 203, the form there given will furnish this month's lesson. You will note the first name, William Young, who is said to have been born "about" 1698. You will find other dates on this form with the word "about" placed just before them. Again, you will see that this same William Young is said to be, in the "Where 248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Born" column, "of" Hopkinton. So are his wife and two children. While his grandchildren are all born in Hopkinton. Now these two words, "about" and "of" are used very carefully by the true genealogist. We may be permitted to guess at dates and places of birth under certain conditions. If we have evidence that a man really lived in a certain town, we may say that he was "of" that town. We should not say that, however, unless we have good evidence to substantiate that fact. We do wrong to give haphazard facts, or to make loose guesses as to where and when persons were born or lived. So, too, there is a pretty safe rule to be followed in estimating a man's birth, if we have dates to work on. Even then we should not do parents or children unless we know that he lived. It is true we have all had parents and grandparents back to Adam; but we cannot assume that their surnames were the same as ours; for, the habit of surnaming people is a comparatively modern one. If we have the Christian names of our dead kinspeople and some dates and facts to go on, we may approximate some dates, and some facts. For instance: we do not know when William Young or his wife Hannah were born; but we know when William's son Joseph and his daughter Elizabeth were married. Elizabeth, the oldest child, was married 22nd June, 1743. Assuming that she was about twenty years old, when she was married ? which is a good average assumption for a woman's age at marriage ? then she was born in 1723. Next, if we assume that her father was about twenty-five years old when Elizabeth was born ? that also being a safe average for a father's age on the birth of his oldest child ? William Young would be born "about" 1698. William's wife Hannah would be in all probability about five years younger than her husband. So now, we may formulate a rule for: APPROXIMATING DATES. Allow five years between the ages of the parents, and twenty-five years between the father and his oldest child. In other words, twenty-five years between generations is a pretty safe average in approximating birth dates. If you will take the trouble to go back on your own line, for a century or two ? if you have a long pedigree ? you will find that your dates fall pretty well in this average. If you have any one date, you should not approximate any other date. There is one point, however, which must be emphasized in this matter: always label your "guess" facts and dates as such. When you are guessing at a person's birth date or place of birth, use the words "about" and "of." Then everybody knows these are approximated facts and dates. GUIDE LESSONS. 249 It is unnecessary to guess at birth dates, if you have death dates, dates of burial, of marriage, of deeds or other fixed dates for the person. It is only when no date at all is known that you are justified in approximating a birth date. And even then, no death or marriage date should ever be approximated. A man is certainly born, but he might not have been married at all, although the father of a family. If a man is spoken of in a record as a widower, you may safely write in the death column that his wife died "prior to" the date of his second marriage; and in that case, there is no need of approximating a birth date for the wife. The same rule holds good concerning the date of a man's death when his wife is spoken of as a "widow." You can say that he died "prior to" the date of the widow's second marriage, repeating the marriage date of the widow in the death column of the first husband, preceded with the words, "prior to." For example: NAME When Born Where Born May Died 17 10 Mr. Smith of Boston, Mass. Prior to 2nd Marriage May 5, 1705 Mrs. Mary Smith, (widow) John Jones Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. LESSON IV ? ECONOMY. Human beings cannot live without money or its equivalent. Therefore, the accumulation of means and its wise expenditure is one of the great problems of life, and certainly has its ethical value. The unwise handling of property is a frequent cause of trouble between husbands and wives. It causes difficulties between parents and children, or between brothers and sisters. And friends may become enemies on account of money matters. There is a vast difference between miserliness and wastefulness; either extreme is a serious fault, and should be studiously avoided: but to make lavish use of means on a moderate income is a great sin. All people who have the strength and the intelligence to labor should have the strength of character and the intelligence to save a portion of the product of their labors. Small savings persistently gathered, amount to great accumulations in the passing 250 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of the years. Such a course provides against poverty and dependence. Nearly always, the people who can and do help others are people who understand economy and practice it? often to the extent of great self denial. Poverty is a disgrace, when it is the result of shiftlessness, indolence or self-indulgence. Wealth is a credit when it is the result of labor, intelligence, care and self-denial. It is much easier to spend money than to earn, and frequently it is easier to earn money than to save it. Uncivilized man has little care for the future and spends with lavish hand. With him it is often a case of "feast or famine." Men of higher intelligence try to provide for the future, and to be prepared for any emergency. Civilized man has many needs and many more wants. It is a fine thing to be able to discriminate between our actual needs which are not usually expensive and our many wants which cost so much. Samuel Smiles says: "It is only when men become wise and thoughtful that they become frugal. Hence, the best means of making men and women provident is to make them wise." People sometimes hesitate to be frugal for fear of being called stingy. It is far better to be called stingy than really to be unwise. And in deciding just what one will spend, there is an opportunity for discipline and self-control. In most families the man is the wage earner, and the woman is largely responsible for the expenditure. That fact clearly implies the need and the importance of the careful training of girls for their responsibilities. It is quite as important for girls to learn to spend money wisely as it is that boys should be taught how to earn money and how to invest their savings wisely and carefully. In family life, the husband and wife should co-operate. There should be a perfect understanding between them as to financial matters. Many a man has become discouraged and many another has gone to financial ruin, and quite needlessly so, just because his wife did not have the right understanding in regard to his business affairs. Women sometimes become indifferent, and even reckless, because of the management or mismanagement of the head of the family. The regular monthly allowance for the home, handed over to the wife, when possible, would put an end to much difficulty and mental turmoil. The training schools for boys and girls in business and in home-life have done very much to make interesting and popular the kind of work that once was looked upon as drudgery. They GUIDE LESSONS. 251 teach us how to get the best results with the least expenditure of energy and means. There is joy in labor well performed, and it certainly contributes to happiness and refinement in home life. Our government, too, issues bulletins of great value to husbandmen and housewives, containing matter prepared by scientific experts. It seems as if the time must arrive when ignorance on practical subjects will be almost inexcusable. Our revered pioneer leaders, in early times of great need, did much to educate the untrained people of their day. President Brigham Young was a noted economist, theoretical and practical. One saying repeated of him is: "A housewife can throw out of the window with a teaspoon as fast as a man can shovel in at the door." Another, "If you have a million bushels of wheat, you have not one kernel to waste." It is said of President George A. Smith that he never went into a town that he did not give practical and useful advice, citing instances for the betterment of conditions. His clear-sightedness caused others to see what might otherwise have gone unobserved. These are only two of the inspired, leading men. Among our beloved women leaders there were highest examples of refinement, industry, thrift, economy and noble womanhood. Elizabeth S. Wilcox. QUESTIONS. Give some results of unwise handling of property. Name some extremes we should avoid. When is poverty a disgrace? When is wealth a credit? Tell the difference between civilized and uncivilized men, on the subject of economy. Who are the frugal people? What should be the attitude of people towards constructive criticism? What about the training of boys and girls? What about mutual understanding and co-operation, in family life? Give some of your views in regard to settling the difficulties that arise. What effect has industrial training in the schools had upon our community? Name some of the ways in which free information of high value may be obtained? How was it in the early days? Let each member be ready with a quotation suitable to the subject. ? E. S. W. 252 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ART. If there is anything lovely * * * we seek after these things. "Articles of Faith," written by Joseph Smith. Devotees and their Shrines pp. 36-55. (a) In what is Alfred Lambourne most gifted? What are his favorite themes. Which of his books have you read? (b) What has J. T. Harwood's influence been on Utah Art? Outline his attainments. What effect has his temperate life exerted upon his art? Describe his versatility as an artist. Which of his pictures do you like best? Why? Which shows most feeling? strongest imagination? most dramatic power? most love or most feeling? Where were these five pictures exhibited in Europe? To what group of pictures belongs "The Old Mill" in Liberty Park? This mill was built by Brigham Young. Have you visited it? Describe this mill. Where does James T. Harwood teach? What does Rose Hartwell say of him? p. 67. Show, or describe, one of Harwood's paintings that you have seen. What constitutes the Utah Art Institute? What work did J. B. Fairbanks do for the Art Institute? Give a resume of his life and work. Tell something of his sons. J. Leo and Avard. Describe his picture you like best. What are his favorite themes? What can you say of his copies? Have you visited the Old Social Hall to see the pictures exhibited by Salt Lake Artists? Colds. By Maud Baggarley. "Just an ordinary cold" is a very common expression. But people are beginning to awaken to the fact that a cold is not ordinary, and calls for "first aid" immediately. Many persons never fully recover from the effects of a neglected, ordinary cold. It often leaves in its wake serious afflictions, the greatest of these being tuberculosis. A cold prepares the way for these foes greater than itself. Many make the mistake of dressing too warmly and wearing too many wrappings about the throat; others have the clothing unevenly distributed about the body. The older people usually wear too much, the young too little. If it were only possible for both classes to strike the happy medium! COLDS. 253 Other factors in the production of "ordinary colds" are the stove or furnace in winter, and closed doors and windows. The feet should be kept dry ? and warm if possible ? the shoes not too tight; round garters should not be worn, as they interfere with the circulation; the food should be plain and easily digested, since colds are often caused by over-eating. (I heard a physician say, recently, that the greater per cent of cases of pneumonia in children comes from injudicious diet.) The home should be well ventilated. One should keep in mind, however, the fact that cold air is not always pure air. Cold air, from an unused room, may be stale and loaded with impurities. The treatment for a cold is simple and inexpensive. The circulation must be equalized, since there is always a disturbance. At the onset of a cold, one should drink quantities of hot water, take a dose of physic, and go to bed for a few hours, or a day, if possible. On retiring at night, take the juice of half a lemon in a glass of water; soak the feet in hot water; and put a cloth wrung out of cold water about the neck, and cover with a dry cloth. If there is a cough, eat dry salt freely. A teaspoonful of glycerine taken at intervals is also good for the cough, but nothing is better than dry table salt. If the cold is not better the second day, put a mustard plaster on the chest until the skin is red, but not burned, afterwards anoint with olive oil. Mentholatum and Lyman's Cough Embrocation are both excellent to rub on neck and chest to relieve the cold. The diet must be light, nourishing, and easily digested, that the organs of elimination may be free to throw off the waste. Rest is necessary. Most drugs are useless? the simple, home remedies being best. A stubborn cold that refuses to yield to home treatment may be the beginning of serious trouble, hence, a reliable physician should be called. Whatever you do, never neglect a cold. FARM WOMEN. Women interested in Home Improvement on the farm should write to Senator Reed Smoot, Senate Office Building No. 215, Washington, D. C., or the Senator from the State in which they live, for report 104 "Domestic Needs of Farm Women," Report 105. "Educational Needs of Farm Women," and Report 106 "Economic Needs of Farm Women." McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $300. Salt Lake City BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah ? ? INCORPORATED ? SALT LAKE CITY -UTAH The shoe store for the whole family? and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE All Relief Society Members who study the Art lessons in the guide, need Devotees and Their Shrines to prepare their lessons. Send to this magazine headquarters or Alice Merrill Home, 4 Ostler Court, Salt Lake City. Price $1.25 postpaid. 120 illustrations THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" Only Under The Jensen Name Will You Find "Jensen" Quality There are scores of butters. But super-quality such as Jensen's Butters are noted for, is to be found only under the "Jensen" name. Two styles put up: "Four-in-one," four separately wrapped prints, and "Blanchard," the standard size print. Both full pound in weight. Call for them by name. Jensen Creamery Co. Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Supplies for Temple THE UTAH STATE Uses; NATIONAL BANK, Those who desire neat, attractive SALT LAKE CITY and moderate-priced articles UTAH for rent or purchase, for use in It is the purpose of this Bank at the Temple, should apply to all times to render helpful service and make the handling Relief Society Headquarters, of your banking Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. HOMESEEKERS' EXCURSIONS EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. 