Vol. II SEPTEMBER, 1915 No. 9 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Genealogical Number ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY CHARLTON'S Exclusive and correct styles in at reasonable Prices Women's Wear. Suits in Newest Cloth and Silk Materials, Latest GOODWIN CORSETS Modes in Gowns and Blouses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent, on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction The Thomas Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Two Books that Every L. D. S. Family Should Have The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25 postpaid. Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. $1.25 and upward. Write for Sample Pages, Free Deseret News Book Store PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assistant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A. SALT LAKE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS — September 1915

International Genealogical Congress at the Panama-Pacific Exposition — Susa Young Gates 389
The "Selfishness" of Jacob and Rachel — Nephi Anderson 403
In the Kitchen Laboratory — Hazel Love Dunford 407
A Prince of Ur 409
Homespun 409
Notes from the Field — Amy B. Lyman 417
Current Topics — James H. Anderson 419
Editorial 420
Guide Lessons 423
Clothing for Women Past Forty — The Two Sarahs 429

ADVERTISERS’ DIRECTORY

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City
CUTLER'S, 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City
DEVOTEES AND THEIR SHRINES
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main & 260 State St., Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
MARIAN BANKS, Millinery
CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 242 South Main, Salt Lake City
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main St., Salt Lake City
MUTUAL CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake City
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
PORTER-WALTON CO., Seedmen, Nurserymen & Florists, Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City
SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING
S. M. TAYLOR & CO., Undertakers, 251–259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City
SUPPLIES FOR TEMPLE USES
THOMAS, Photographer
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City

From Beyond the Gates. By Lily. Unearthly prison doors that shut My soul within your fold, Both near and far, your leaves unbar, Death may not always hold. Lift up your gates, O paradise, And let my Savior in. My awful fear for ages here Pays tribute unto sin. The light, the light, I see the light — Come blessed Savior, now, My soul to save; beneath the wave My children's children bow. My children's hearts turn back to me, I hear their tender cry; For them my care, my hourly prayer Ascends with love on high. O blessed saviors on the Mount, How sweet your tidings be For peace awaits within the gates To crown and comfort me. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. SEPTEMBER, 1915. No. 9 International Genealogical Congress at the Panama-Pacific Exposition. By Susa Young Gates. The assembly of genealogists, convened in San Francisco in July, 1915, known as the International Genealogical Congress, has passed into history. The story of the Utah Genealogical special, which carried 271 officers and delegates from the Utah Genealogical Society, and from the Relief Society, has likewise passed into the annals of this state. The official report and minutes of the Congress will appear in the October number of The Utah Genealogical Magazine, but this Magazine will here record some phases of the work and the trip, which may not be given in the official report. Much preliminary correspondence and work was performed by the committees who had charge of the arrangement for our gathering in San Francisco. Those who labored to make this great excursion and Congress a success received their reward in the results thereof. Friday afternoon, 4 o'clock, July 22, the Genealogical excursion left Salt Lake City. The President's private car preceded the Excursion Party proper, going on the regular train one hour earlier, as they did not wish to make our stopovers. In the President's car were President Joseph F. Smith, President Anthon H. Lund, President Charles W. Penrose, Mrs. Mary S. Smith, Dr. Romania B. Penrose and Mrs. Julia B. Nibley. They registered at the Palace Hotel on reaching San Francisco and took an active interest and part in the work of the Congress. The Excursion party found the trip over the Lucin Cut Off and the mountains very delightful. The Sacramento Valley was sultry in the extreme, and the company were somewhat breathless 390 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and moist; but when we arrived at the Coast, the usual chill air revived our spirits, and San Francisco was reached in comfort. The ride across the Bay was delightful, especially to those who had never taken this trip before. The party was met at San Francisco by President Joseph L. Robinson, and other Utahns, and were finally distributed in the Clark, Eddy, Windsor, the United States and other hotels. All of these hotels were near together, and not far from the Auditorium, in the Civic Center. Some members of the party attended the concert given by the Ogden Choir in Festival Hall, inside the Exposition Grounds that evening, and listened with delight to the fine singing of the Choir, the charming solo work of Professor J. J. McClellan, the masterly accompaniment of the Exposition Orchestra, under the direction of Mr. George Hagerman, and especially enjoyed the beautiful singing of Miss Emma Lucy Gates, the Utah prima donna. On Saturday, the 24th of July, most of the party spent the morning in the Exposition Grounds until the exercises of Utah Day began at the Utah Building. The Panama-Pacific Exposition is the greatest of all World Fairs. It is doubtless the last universal exposition that will be held in this generation, and it is fitting that it should excel all others, and round out the history of expositions with as perfect a presentation of human activities, as mortals may devise. Every feature of displayed industry and each factor of beauty, that have characterized other world fairs are encompassed in this Exposition, and many new and lovely ideas are added. The most wonderful phase of the whole Exposition is the completeness of conception, and the perfection of accomplishment. The arrangement of the grounds, with the magnificent courts is beautiful beyond description. The massive outlines, gorgeous color-schemes, wondrous details, are so perfect in their art that no one thing offends the eye, or seizes the imagination to the exclusion of any other. The labor of grouping and adjusting human interests as expressed in the eight hundred congresses here convened and convening, is a marvel of mortal intelligence. It is intellectual specialization carried to its most perfect limit. Individual tastes would necessarily emphasize varying features of the Fair, but a very general verdict claims the superiority of the Fine Arts exhibit, the Canadian exhibit, the French Building and interesting features of what is known as the "Zone." All of the world fairs have had varying entertainments and "side-shows" featured. At Chicago Fair, the division was called the Midway Plaisance; in St. Louis it was called The Pike, and at San Diego it is known as the Isthmus. The Zone at the Panama-Pacific Exposition is on the same INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 391 high plane of excellence as the rest of the Fair. Some features were truly educative. For instance, the Panama Canal and Isthmus shown in an immense Relief Map, was illuminated and illustrated with phonographic lectures, to those who sat on a moving platform surrounding the panorama. The Creation was another wondrous development of film art, which was both scientific and beautiful. The Union Pacific delineation of Yellowstone Park, with its replica of the Old Faithful Inn and its excellent cafe was another interesting feature. Mexican, Hawaiian, and Indian Buildings were replete with information and demonstrations. The cars that traveled back and forth with queer little Ford engines, and the wicker, self-propelling, double chairs were convenient adjuncts to the weary traveler who had miles to walk, in order to see the various phases of the Fair. The color scheme of the buildings was exquisitely beautiful, while the floral accessories seemed too perfect and lovely to be created in the year or so which marked their growth. The situation of the Fair Grounds on the blue waters of the Bay, with five Men of War frowning in the near distance, made a picture that will never be forgotten by those who visited the Fair. Taken as a whole, a wordless pleasure, and an aesthetic, voiceless appreciation marks the perfect achievement which San Francisco and California have made possible. A practical phase of our experience at the Fair was in the reasonable hotel rates, and the equally reasonable restaurant accommodations which we found everywhere. Some of our party have traveled all over the world, and they were unanimous in declaring that no cheaper and better hotel accommodations, no richer and more palatial hotel possibilities are found on the globe than are seen in San Francisco. While no other restaurants in Europe or America have presented better cooked food at more moderate rates, with a better choice of viands than are found in the California cafes and cafeterias. Inside as well as without the Exposition Grounds this truth holds good. San Francisco surely made ready for a great influx of visitors. It seemed to us that in the business districts, every building that was not a hotel was a cafe or apartment house. The exercises of Utah Day — the 24th of July — were held on the porch and grounds of the Utah Building, which building is at the extreme end of the grounds, facing the Massachusetts Building, and near the Canada Building. There was a large audience, some of whom were luckily seated inside the roped enclosure, while thousands stood patiently in the cold wind until all of the exercises were over. Besides Governor William Spry and the state officials, with the Exposition officials, there were grouped on 392 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the porch, President Joseph F. Smith, President Anthon H. Lund, President Chas. W. Penrose, Bishop Chas. W. Nibley, with their wives, President Emmeline B. Wells, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Mrs. William Spry, Mrs. Wedgewood, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and wife, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, and other prominent ladies, and gentlemen. The exercises were pleasing, and the speakers were eloquent. President Joseph F. Smith added a fine dignity to the occasion, and indeed dominated the assembly by reason of his position, as the leader of God's people here on earth. His speech, closing with a benediction upon the people of California, and those who had made the Fair a possibility, was eloquent indeed. The Sabbath day was passed quietly by the party, most of them attending morning and evening services and listening to remarks by the First Presidency. On Monday occurred the reception tendered by the Genealogical Society of Utah and the National Womans' Relief Society, to the Officials of the Exposition and to visiting delegates of the International Congress of Genealogy. The reception was successful in every way. At the head of the receiving line stood President Joseph F. Smith, supported by Presidents Anthon H. Lund and Chas. W. Penrose, Director James A. Barr, President Emmeline B. Wells, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Bishop Joseph Christenson, Nephi Anderson, Miss Lillian Cameron, and Mrs. Elizabeth C. McDonald. The hostesses of the afternoon who received the visitors and introduced them, to the guests of honor were Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. W. J. Leatham, Mrs. Jessie Penrose Jones, and Mrs. W. J. Leatham. The young ladies who presided at the refreshment table were Miss Sarah McClelland, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss Emily Smith, Miss Edith Smith, Miss Luette Brown, Misses Florence and Augusta Ivins, Golda Hyde and Sarah Burton. Music was furnished by the Cadet Band, and among the honored visitors were Bishop Charles W. Nibley, Governor Wm. Spry, General Wedgewood, Mayor Samuel C. Park, Commissioner Frank L. Brown, Mrs. Lora W. Underhill, and many others, too numerous to mention. Tuesday, July 27, was Utah Genealogical day, and all of our party gathered early at Room F, in the Third Floor of the Auditorium Building. Again the Utah party were honored, and happily surprised with the presence of Director James A. Barr who left his many duties to come and greet the Utah Society on that INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 393 auspicious occasion. The program for the Utah Day was as follows: DEMONSTRATION OF CLASS INSTRUCTION IN GENEALOGY. Tuesday, July 27th, 1915 10 a. m. Invocation Lesson: (a) Sources of Information (b) Methods of Recording 2 p. m. Lesson: (a) Approximation of Dates (b) Numbering (c) Work in the Library Instructors: Nephi Anderson Mrs. Susa Young Gates EVENING PROGRAM. Invocation Dr. Emmeline B. Wells President National Woman's Relief Society Address of Welcome Anthon H. Lund President Genealogical Society of Utah Address: Utah as a Melting Pot Joseph F Smith, Jr. Secretary-Treasurer Genealogical Society of Utah Pioneer Reminiscences President Joseph F. Smith Historical Sketch of the Genealogical Society of Utah Chas. W. Penrose Vice-President Genealogical Society of Utah Song "O Ye Mountains High" Emma Lucy Gates Report of Genealogical Extension Work in the Relief Society Elizabeth C McCune Benediction Heber J. Grant The evening session was marked by a crowded house. Many strangers and friends unable to get chairs, stood through the whole of the program. The full proceedings will be printed in the Utah Genealogical Magazine. Pioneer Reminiscences, by President Joseph F. Smith, were replete with vivid incidents and attractive stories. President Lund presided in his own dignified and gracious manner, which encompassed every one present with its genial radiance. President Penrose gave a succinct and interesting history of the Utah Genealogical Society, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune read with completeness and satisfaction the report of the extension work in the Relief Society, which rounded out the program. The singing of Emma Lucy Gates was, as always, beautiful and appropriate. Few of our even ordinary vocalists would do what this great singer did that night— sing without any accom394 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. paniment of piano or instrument. Her reputation artistically and morally did not suffer from her generous action. The International Congress of Genealogy which opened the next morning in the same hall was crowded and enthusiastic. The Address of Welcome given by President Henry Byron Phillips, and responded to by Joseph F. Smith, Jr., was peculiarly interesting to us. Utah was honored in the choice of our young apostle, and he rose supremely to the occasion; while we felt that California was likewise honored in the apt and happy choice of him. The program for the Congress will be printed in its entirety in the Utah Genealogical Magazine. Among the very notable papers presented during the three meetings of the Congress was one on Chinese Genealogy, by Kiang Shao Chuan Kang-Hu, a cultured Chinese of the California University. It was a marvelous unfolding of the conditions concerning pedigrees and genealogical keeping amongst this little known, and yet ancient people. Going back 6,000 or 8,000 years, pedigrees are religiously kept by all families of the better classes. The genealogist is chosen from the clan once in thirty years, and is maintained by his labors. He keeps and records each birth, death and marriage of the whole clan. Twelve hundred years before Christ each head of clan was compelled to frame a verse. The members of that clan all took the first word of that verse as a middle name. The second generation all took the second word, the third generation the third, and so on down. That explains why nearly all Chinamen are "cousins." One can tell the clan and the generation of any particular Chinaman if one knows his clan verse. Surnames were given much as in America. Two other papers which discovered vast possibilities of genealogical import in strange peoples were those on the Hawaiian and Maori races. Another deeply interesting paper was the Relation of Eugenics to Genealogy by the editor of the Eugenics Magazine. The closing paper was given by Frank L. Wilcox on the "Relation of Genealogy to Human Affairs," and this too was interesting and full of suggestions. The Congress took upon itself the permanent title of the International Genealogical Federation, after much discussion and comment. Another action was the decision to make the Utah Genealogical Magazine for October the official number for the Congress. Therein will be printed all of the proceedings and papers in full, illustrated with the pictures of the Congress. Two standing committees were formed — one on Permanent Organization and the other on Legislative Action. Utah was represented on these, as on all other committees. Mr. Joseph INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 395 F. Smith, Jr., and Mrs. Susa Young Gates were both given places in the temporary and permanent committees. One of the most striking and interesting events in connection with our Congress was the presentation by the Fair officials, of bronze medals to President Anthon H. Lund, who represented the Genealogical Society of Utah, and to President Emmeline B. Wells who represented the Relief Society. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells was in her tenderest mood; she told of the fact that the very first carload of flour which reached stricken San Francisco eight years ago came from the Relief Society of Utah. Another carload sped to the Mississippi sufferers, and one to distant China. Large sums and supplies had been sent to England recently. The touching quality and pathos of Mrs. Wells' remarks brought tears to the eyes of Commissioner Chas. A. Vogelsang. MEDAL PRESENTED TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY. President Lund referred to the work of the Utah Genealogical Society. He tactfully told the commissioner that the "Mormon" people had raised about $37,000 in one day's contribution, which was distributed to our poor, without discrimination, in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, France and Great Britain. The presentation ceremonies took place Thursday afternoon at 4:30, in the reception room of the Utah Building. Several family reunions were held during the Utah week — 396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in particular the Kimball Family, which was interesting and delightful. There is a large Kimball Association in California, of several hundred members who meet frequently to read papers, and enjoy social intercourse. At their meeting in the Inside Inn, they were presented with a bronze medal, by the Fair officials. A number of informal talks were made, and original poems read. Mrs. Susa Young Gates was invited to speak in behalf of the Kimball Family of Utah, and she delineated the lofty characteristics, the high courage, the genial humor and wit, the companionable quality of the characters of the Kimballs of Utah, giving greeting to California in behalf of the many descendants of that great pioneer — Heber Chase Kimball. REVERSE SIDE OF THE MEDAL PRESENTED TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY. The Frost, Rice, Starr and Young families held gatherings during this week, as well as the Jewetts, and other family lines. A number of luncheons were given for the Utah people. A beautiful auto trip was tendered by Miss Carlie Inez Tomlinson, who is the charming Corresponding Secretary of the Congress, to President Emmeline B. Wells, Susa Young Gates, and Mrs. Lora A. W. Underhill of Boston. The circuit of San Francisco and Golden Gate Park was made in this trip. Mrs. Janette A. INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 397 Hyde was entertained at luncheon by the Presidential Party, August 1st, in the Palace Hotel. A luncheon was given by Mr. George J. Jewett to the delegates of the New England Genealogical Society, and Mrs. Lora A. W. Underhill, Mr. Joseph F. Smith, Jr., and Susa Young Gates occupied one table at this luncheon. Thursday evening the Congress was received by the California Genealogical Society in the Red Room of the Fairmont Hotel. The beautiful rooms were decorated with tropical flowers, and refreshments were served. All of the officials were in the receiving line, and our Utah party were happy in meeting in social converse the guests and officials present. An interesting feature of the event was the exhibit of the California Genealogical Society in the library of the hotel. The exhibit was not large — all of the former collections being destroyed in the San Francisco fire, eight years ago. The quality and rarity of many of the books and charts attracted universal attention. Among those whose names should be engraved upon the tablets of memory, and written in the history of this wonderful Congress, should appear first, President Henry Byron Phillips, than whom, no more courteous gentleman, better official, and more scholarly author took part in the proceedings. Next would be named Mr. Ora E. Monnette, whose magnetic personality and splendid organizing ability focused action and promoted system and order. Dr. Alvin Plummer was an inspiration to all who were privileged to listen to him, or meet him in private intercourse. Hon. Boutwell Dunlap possesses a fund of scholarly information, and a quality of enthusiasm which carried conviction, and won his point for him nearly every time. Mention should be made of Mr. Thos. Edward Bond, Treasurer of the Congress, who successfully met all calls upon his commandeering ability. The real gem of the assembly was brilliant, delightful, modest little Sarah Louise Kimball, the Corresponding Secretary of the California Genealogical Society, who was eyes, ears, and hands of the Congress from beginning to end. Mr. Frank H. Pettingell of Los Angeles, the permanent Chairman of the Congress, presided with a vigor and grace that won admiration from all sides. Miss Carlie Inez Tomlinson who was the organizing secretary of the Congress is fair to look upon, and exceedingly intelligent and gracious. Mrs. Walter Damon Mansfield, a lady in her own right, was a capable representative of the Society of London Genealogists. She was both handsome and dignified. Mr. Chas. Edward Heald made a brilliant secretary and ably seconded the chairman in expediting work and keeping the snap and sparkle in the daily programs. Saturday, July 31st, was a day set apart for the International Genealogical Federation to receive their badge from 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the Panama-Pacific Exposition officials, and although but few of our party were present, the remarks of President Henry Byron Phillips, in accepting the badge, should be recorded here: "The preservation of family history is more than a mere collection of names for the purpose of forming a pedigree. It has come to be regarded as one of the most important parts of the history of a people. The historian realizes that the genealogical history of the people is an important portion of modern history. Genealogy is a guide to right living. No man knows himself so well but that he may learn more by scanning the lives of his progenitors. "Looking at the subject in a lofty way, the study of genealogy teaches us so to live and develop latent forces for good that we may be able to make our ancestors famous as the progenitors of illustrious men and women." The Utah party left San Francisco that same morning, augmented by nearly a hundred friends and associates who accompanied us on the trip to San Diego Fair. The first stop made by the Utah Party was at the Big Trees, our train being switched off on a side-track, which took us right to the Big Trees themselves. One-half hour was spent hurrying around the vast enclosure which contains so many of these marvelous trees of the primeval forest. Learning that the great people who have passed that way, have had trees named for them, the party united in a request to have a tree named Emmeline B. Wells, and it was done. There are trees named after Grant, Sheridan, Lincoln, Roosevelt, and nearly all of the famous people of the United States. From here, we were taken to Santa Cruz, which is directly on the ocean; and here we found a pavilion on the shore, with many of the features of Saltair attractions, on a smaller scale. The Beach was beautiful, and some of our party went in bathing. But that which pleased us most was the attention paid to our party by the ladies' clubs and the Commercial Club of that fair city. The ladies brought tubfuls of flowers and presented each of our party with an immense bouquet of gladiolas, geraniums, Shasta daisies, gardenias, etc. The Commercial Club sent down postal cards for everybody, with some of the charming scenes of the town thereon. We were very grateful for this courtesy, and shall ever remember Santa Cruz as one of the brightest spots in our travels. Arriving in Los Angeles early in the morning, most of the party were taken to the headquarters of our Mission, where everybody was made welcome. The party gathered in the Church for morning service, and several of the most noted visitors spoke to the Assembly. INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 399 Sunday evening, we again boarded the train, landing in San Diego early next morning. The Fair was our goal, and while this beautiful exhibit is not equal to the vast one at San Francisco, still everything was highly interesting and satisfactory — especially were we pleased with the Utah Exhibit, and building at this Fair. Instead of being simply a place where friends are received and registered, this building contains agricultural exhibits of the highest class. It is conceded that no fruit from any state equals in size or flavor that grown in Utah. We met Miss Littlefield, and Mrs. Ellis, who are hostesses of the building; and they were very gracious and cordial to all of our party. Some of the party rode out to Coronado Beach, and enjoyed an hour's ocean bathing. Those who were not venturesome enough to go into the water, wandered on the Beach, gathering shells, and some even pulled off their shoes and stockings and waded in the ocean. Others went to the fine old hacienda, known as Ramona; this place was most interesting, not only as the romantic spot where Ramona was married to her young lover, but because of the many relics of ancient times, which have been preserved here. The old stage coach, old bed, chairs, tables, and all sorts of utensils and dishes, were interesting indeed, while the growth of tropical trees and flowers in the court was a picture in itself. Taking the train that evening, we reached Los Angeles early on the morning of August 3. Here the party were taken in seeing cars all through the beach towns of Santa Monica, Venice, Long Beach, and other suburbs of Los Angeles. When the train left the Los Angeles depot, at 4 o'clock p. m., we had lost about half of our party, some of whom remained over for a day or two, others for longer, perhaps. We were loth to part with our friends, but reached San Francisco early on the morning of August 4th. The party were taken at once across the city to the ferry station, where they boarded one of the Southern Pacific steamers, which ply up the Sacramento River, daily. The ride was cool and delightful, and a new experience for some of the travelers. In the afternoon they all gathered on one side of the deck, and sang hymns and original rhymes, with considerable wit and humor shown in the wording thereof. That evening at midnight, the party were once more taken aboard cars at Sacramento, and the trip for the mountains began. The next day being the last day, a great deal of innocent fun was projected, and carried through by the musicians and fun makers of the crowd. The day was perhaps the pleasantest of all which occurred on the trip, and all who were privileged to be present, enjoyed the happy spirit of the occasion with whole hearts. The early morning of August 6, saw the party stationed in 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Salt Lake City, where goodbyes were said, and the last hour of the voyage had passed into memory. The account of this trip would not be complete without the mention of the gentleman who had charge of the traveling arrangements, and who accompanied the party everywhere — Mr. Charles L. McFaul, who is the district freight and passenger agent of the Southern Pacific Railway; he left no stone unturned to give happiness and pleasure to those under his care. His familiarity with California and its history and his willngness to give information at all times were highly appreciated by all. His handsome young son was an attractive feature of the latter part of the trip, for his gentlemanly solicitude and his courteous assistance were the exact duplication of his father. Mr. McFaul's assistant — Mr. Maurice Tanner — is one of our were "Mormon" own of valuable boys, and his assistance untiring to all courtesy and efficient zeal concerned. It is a remarka1)le thing that all three of the Presidents of the Church were present at this Congress, and took part therein. Likewise, there were Apostles Heber J. Grant, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Dr. James E. Talmage, Bishop Chas. W. Nibley. All of these, with their wives, constituted a bulwark of strength and power unparalleled in like occasions. President Emmeline B. Wells, and President Joseph F. Smith were both with us. It would seem that she and President Joseph F. Smith are the last two links between the founding of this Church, in official relations, and the present time. Both were in Nauvoo when the Prophet Joseph instituted the practice of baptism for the dead, and Mrs. Wells took part in that initial ceremony in the Mississippi river. President Emmeline B. Wells enjoyed every moment of her trip, went everywhere that anybody else went, saw everything that anybody else saw. and put to the blush many of the younger members of the party. with her faithfulness and her untiring activity. One of the pleasant features of the evening session for Utah Day, was the visit of Mrs. Kate Waller Barratt, President of the National Council of Women, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, biographer of Susan B. Anthony, and one of the greatest women journalists in America; Mrs. Johnson, the sculptor, who has modeled most of the great women of America. These ladies attended the service in order to pay their respects to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, and Mrs. Gates, and to listen to [Miss Emma Lucy Gates sing. No finer, more intelligent company ever left this state. They were truly representative. It was indeed a goodly company. The following members were present in the party: President Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Lizzie Felt, Mrs. Lillian INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 401 Knight, Miss Edith Smith, Miss Emily Smith, Miss Carrie Patrick, Miss Elizabeth Patrick, Miss Florence Ivins, Miss Augusta Ivins, Miss Golda Hyde, Miss Sarah Burton, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss Sarah McLelland, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Miss Phoebe Harding, Miss Prudence Brown, Miss Edna M. Wadsworth, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McDonald, Mrs. Harriett Leatham, Miss Leatham, Mrs. John Henry Evans and daughter. Miss Ida Felt, Miss Florence Harrington, Miss Jennie Harrington, Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, Mr. Jacob F. Gates, Miss Annie Lynch, Miss Etta Smith, Mrs. Jane Jennings Eldridge, Miss Luetta Brown, Mrs. Elizabeth Brown, Mrs. Emily W. Stockdale, Mrs. J. C. Edwards, Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Siddoway, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Christenson, Miss Lillian Cameron, Miss Brown, Miss Baird, Mr. Jas. Duckworth, Mr. and Mrs. Nephi Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Mr. Wm. R. Jones, Mrs. Jessie Penrose Jones, Mrs. P. P. Musser, Mr. Wayne Musser, Mr. and Mrs. Fred A. Mitchell, Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Symons, Miss Symons, Mr. Frederick Scholes, Logan; Mrs. W. T. Jack, Mrs. Bates, Mrs. Neilson, Mrs. Priscilla Worthington, Miss Stella P. James, Mrs. Emma Sharp, Mrs. Frank Tribes, Mr. and Mrs. D. Jensen, Miss Pauline Sevey, Panguitch, Utah; Miss Dodd, Miss Stella Judd, Panguitch, Utah; Miss Lefever, Miss Caroline Scholes, Logan; Miss Elizabeth Wilson, Mrs. S. A. Sewell, Mrs. Mary Holt, Mrs. Rosetta Shaw, Mrs. Mercy R. Stevens, Ogden; Miss Catherine Wilson, Miss Sarah Wilson, Miss Effie Kent, Miss Barker, Mrs. Vincey R. Barker, Mrs. Clara M. T. Bartholomew, Bountiful, Utah; Mr. Jos. Hubbard, Mrs. J. Y. Robbins, Miss Alice Robbins, Mrs. R. M. Porcher, Mrs. Stookey, Miss Stookey, Bybee, Adamson, Miss Mrs. Caldwell, Mr. and Miss George T. Mrs. Caldwell, Mrs. Mr. Benson, L. Robert Mr. Hayward, Hayward, Mrs. Pugsley, Mrs. Ada Pingree, Mrs. Mary Ellen Keller, Mrs. Jennie Keller, Mrs. Lucy M. Cutler, Mrs. Phoebe McNeil. Mrs. Nancy Beckstead, Mrs. Lele Beckstead, Mrs. Amy C. Bailif, Miss Letitia Paul, Mrs. Mary Jones, Miss May Reid, Mrs. Hart, Miss Maud Johnson, Miss Maggie Salomon, Mr. and Mrs. R. F. Lambert, Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Jenkins, Mr. J. A. Wadsworth, Mrs. A. J. Pendelton, Miss Pendelton, Mr. John Duckworth, Miss Goddard, Miss Emma Evans, Mrs. Lucy Rice, Miss L. Reiser, Mrs. Margaret Reiser, Miss Bateman,. Mr. and Mrs. B. C. Call, Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Rogers, Mrs. Ida Clark, Mr. Bussman, Miss L. Snow, Miss Crosby, Mrs. Elida Snow, Mrs. Artemesia Seegmiller, Miss Anna Snow, Mr. H. B. Parish, Mr. T. F. Howells, Mrs. Sarah Freidal, Mrs. J. W. Hoops, Miss Catherine Sorenson, Lago, Idaho; Mr. James Blake, Miss Ada Johnson, Miss Vina Johnson, 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Mr. Parish, Mrs. Parish, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Symons, Mrs. Aroetta H. Holgate, Miss Cecilia G. Stead, Mr. and Mrs. Ezra Wilson, Mr. J. T, Peterson, Miss Eliza Hanson, Miss A. Jensen, Mrs. Rose Neally, Mrs. A. Standing, Mrs. N. Jensen, Mr. Julian Burton, Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Tanner, Mr. and Mrs. C. L. McFaul, Mr. Donald McFaul, Miss. Irene McFaul, Mr. and Mrs. Mark Austin, son and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Jos. Webb, St. George, Utah; Miss M. Broadhead, Mr. David Broadhead, Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Heisell, Mrs. Eva Curleox, Mrs. Mars, Miss Carrie Allen, Mrs. Sarah Houston, Mr. Jas. P. Peterson, Miss Martha Evans, Miss Elizabeth Thompson, Mr. Parley Redd, Mr. H. H. Rudd, Miss Ruth Jones, Miss Nettie Perkins, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, Mrs. Manning, Mrs. Mary Jones, Mrs. Hilda H. Larson, Mrs. Marie Goff, Mrs. C. L Goff, Miss Sabina Goff, Mrs. A. Egbert, Mrs. A. Despain, Mrs. C. Miller, Mrs. Mary A. Orgall, Riverton, Utah; Mrs. Caroline B. Sadler, Mrs. Ella Peterson, Mr. Jos. Boddell, Mrs. Sarah Boddell, Mrs. Sarah J. Butterfield, Harriman, Utah; Mrs. Pearl Butterfield, Miss M. Bateman, Mrs. Sadie Neils, Mrs. Hazel Malestrom, Mrs. W. B. Ennis, Mrs. Agnes Merrill, Miss Merrill, Miss Wilson, Mr. Chas. Egenberger, Mr. Duncan Park, Mr. and Mrs. James A. Wakeley, Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, Mr. Anderson, Mr. and Mrs. Wm. A. Prahl, Mrs. Porter, Mrs. Katie E. Dixon, Manard, Idaho; Mrs. Unity Chappell, Mrs. Cecelia Steed Chuger, Mrs. Eliza Nielson, Mrs. Victoria Elvin, Mrs. Carrie Johnson, Mrs. Louisa Bates, Ann E. Lyman, Oak City, Utah; Miss Mamie J. Dodds, Panguitch, Utah; Mrs. Carrie Johnson, Union, Utah; Caroline B. Sadler, Mabel Excell, Panguitch, Miss Ann Nebeker, Mrs. Agnes Merrill, Ellen D. Bateman, Mr. and Mrs. W. S. Turner, Mrs. Rosetta Shaw, Ogden, Utah; Fern Goddard, Provo, Utah; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Timms, Mrs. Emily Ennis, Miss Pearl Burton, and Edna Wadsworth. The resolution which was passed, as a basis for a permanent international organization of societies, associations, and individuals interested in genealogy, named these three objects for the Federation: A — Preservation and publication of historical and genealogical records. B — Procurement of legislation to establish system of collecting and maintaining vital statistics and records, both national and local. C — Establishment of a national or international bureau of heraldry for the registration of pedigrees, coats-of-arms, etc. What wider scope, what broader foundation, could be given to any movement? Truly, we look with high hope into the future of the International Genealogical Federation. The "Selfishness'' of Jacob and Rachel By Nephi Anderson, author of "Added Upon." His name was Johan Jacob Henri Sweizermann; and hers was Maria Rachel Ellen Brown. As this is somewhat of a genealogical story, I would better give the data in the case as correctly as possible. I'll tell about him first. J. J. H. Sweizermann, commonly known to us as Jacob, was born in Schleswig-Holstein in 1855, of Danish-German parentage. His wife died before he came to this country, about ten years ago. He has no children. Up to three years ago, he lived in Southern Utah, where his Danish-German thrift brought him means enough so that he could come to the city and devote the remainder of his life to temple work. Jacob was not wealthy, be it understood. He lived by himself. His wants were few, and his life was the essence of simplicity. When he paid his first visit to the office of the Genealogical Society he brought with him quite an extended record which he had obtained by many years of effort. In his timid, quiet way, and his broken English, he explained that he wanted help with his record — he wanted to begin work in the temple for his people, and would we help him to get started? He would be glad to pay us for assistance. We enrolled him as a life member in the Society, took into our keeping his record, made out some temple sheets for him, and gave him the instructions needed for him to get started. For profuse He was his thanks a year in Jacob we had us done. for what visited Sweizermann regularly, about once a week, to get names and to make a deposit on a fund which he had to pay for assistance in the female line of his work. He had no relatives, he stated, and he was compelled to get others to help him, and for this he was very willing to pay the trifling sum required. Jacob was what is termed a "character." He always came into the office with a smile on his ruddy, smooth-shaven face. A perfect peace seemed to have taken complete possession of him. He was oblivious to all things about him, except the work in hand. "I am so thankful," he would usually say, and we came to understand that he meant a great deal by this — thankful that the Lord had directed him through the various walks of life and had at last led him to this land and this city where there is a temple in which he might do a really unselfish work. 404 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Things went on placidly with Brother Jacob for about a year. Then one day he came into the office without the smile. asked. "Good morning, Brother, what is the matter?" I instinctively He sat down, and twirled his hat nervously in his hands. He could not speak for a moment. Then he said, "It is very bad — very bad. I haf money no longer. I must go home." The old man brushed away a tear from his face. We listened to him patiently, and showed our genuine sympathy. It seems that someone not so honest as he had defrauded him, and he would have to cease his temple work and go home to straighten out things, if he could. We expressed our regrets and hoped he would soon return. He was gone a month. One afternoon just before closing time, he came panting up the steps. His hair seemed grayer and his face more deeply furrowed, but the smile was still there. We greeted him warmly. "I know you close at five," he explained, "and so I hurry to see you." "When did you get back?" "Today — just now. I couldn't wait." "And how are things at home?" "Bad, very bad — I have notings left." But Jacob was not discouraged. He had prospects of a job in the city — janitor in an apartment house. He could do his work, if he got it, and still continue his labors in the temple, he declared. We wished him success, and he smiled his thanks, as we went down stairs together. Jacob obtained his position. This was early in the spring, and the grounds about his apartment had to be looked after. He was eminently fitted for this, and so his temple work had to be somewhat neglected. However, as the warm weather came, and there was little to do in the way of firing, Jacob had more time to himself and he managed to spend three half days each week in the temple. He always came to us with his genealogical troubles. One day he said: "I haf some difficulty." "What is it?" we asked. "I need more female verkers. I haf done many mens, but my vimens go slow." We understood this very well. During the first year of his temple work he had devoted himself to the male line, thinking that later he would engage someone to help him with the females. Now, when he could least afford it, he would have to get assistance in his work. Could we recommend someone? THE "SELFISHNESS" OF JACOB AND RACHEL. 405 And now comes Maria Rachel Ellen Brown, commonly known to us as Rachel, into this story. Rachel was born in Wiltshire, England, "about" 1864. This is purely a guess date, and. must not be taken as fact. I will admit, I am poor at guessing in this case, and I dare not ask the lady for a more definite date. Rachel was what is sometimes called a "maiden lady." Why she had never married I can not understand, for she certainly was good, and true, and — very good looking. Her hair, profuse and black, was turning gray in places. Her face was somewhat pale and colorless. The first impression of the lady was that she had very little to say, but that impression was dispelled by further acquaintance. She was also a member of the Genealogical Society, and had a limited pedigree. She had about completed the temple work for her connected line, and she was now hesitating whether or not to venture into the broad field of Browns of Wiltshire. Sister Brown was poor in this world's goods. She was now beginning to feel the effects of too much hard labor in her younger days. She could do only the lighter kinds of work, and that was not plentiful. For weeks at a time, Rachel did not go to the temple, which grieved her very much. The burden of her concern seemed to be for others, those who had gone before without the privileges of the temple ordinances. We recommended Maria R. E. Brown to Jacob. She was glad to spend three days in the temple for his female names if he would spend the like number of days for her male names. When he hesitated about this last proviso, she explained that she had but a few male names left, so his services would not be required long. This was satisfactory; and it was in this way that these two good people came to work together for the salvation of souls. All that summer the work went smoothly and well with Jacob and Rachel. Frequently they came together to the office to get names. When endowments had been taken for husbands and wives, they saw to it that they were properly sealed, and their children adopted to them, thus completing each family as they went along. They were happy in their work. Jacob would tell us of his job, and explain how the Lord had opened the way for him in the obtaining of it. Rachel would also frequently drop in on us, more we imagined to tell us of some things that Jacob had done than on matters of genealogical business. The temple that year closed for the summer vacation the first part of July. The very day before the closing one, Jacob and Rachel came together to the office. Jacob's cheeks were redder than ever, and it seemed that what little blood was in Rachel's body was trying to get into her face. Evidently, they came on unusual business. They would not tell us what they wanted until 406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Closing time when all others had left. Up to that time Jacob ha • been aimlessly looking at German books, while Rachel had found one from Wiltshire, evidently full of Brown names. "Well, now, what can we do for you?" "Veil, you see, ve vant you to make out a sealing sheet midt my name and Sister Brown's name on it." "What?" we did not grasp the situation for a moment. "Sister Brown and me — ve has stood for so many mans and vifes in de temple — married for time and eternity — now ve stand for ourselves." "Oh, you are going to get married?" . "Yes; Rachel and me." The old man straightened, and at the moment he looked every inch the fine man he was. Rachel closed the Wiltshire record and came and stood by him. Why, yes, they made a fine couple, well matched in every way. There was room for Rachel in Jacob's quarters in the apartment house as well as in his heart. Why shouldn't they get married, and then go on together in the noble work they were doing? "\^ill you make out de sheet?" Jacob asked. "You see, tomorrow is de last day." "But, dear me — you must have something other than a temple "Vat?" sheet." "Why, you must get a license from the County Clerk." "Is dat so?" "Yes; and I fear it is too late today to do that." Both of them were very much disturbed at this news. Rachel found her tongue first. "Now I know we have been selfish. I have been fearful all the time that we have been thinking too much of our own happiness, Jacob — you know I told you so. Temple workers should not be selfish — and I fear this is selfishness — the Lord don't want us to, I fear." "Sister Brown." asked I, "do you want to?" "I — I like Brother Sweizermann very much, and if— " "Then," said I, "don't worry. I'll see that you get your license tomorrow in time. Come here in the morning — and go right on with the wedding preparations. The next morning, with everything arranged, Jacob and Rachel went through the temple as usual, and took endowments for two of their ancestors. They got through early, and shortly after "high noon" they went into the sealing room. I was there to witness the ceremony, and I have never seen a more beautiful or impressive one. In the Kitchen Laboratory. By Hascl Love Dunford. AS TO THE CANNING OF FRUIT. About this time of the year, many of our sisters are busily engaged in steaming and sweating their lives away over the preserving kettle, making jelly and jam, or putting away the fruit for winter. Many of us have come to believe that we could not face the winter without six or seven hundred and even a thousand quarts of fruit in the cellar. Unless one has fruit in the orchard, or spoiling in the garden, I claim the cost is too much. When a woman counts her time worth anything, to purchase fruit at high prices, and with sugar so expensive, is sheer extravagance. I am afraid many do not count the cost. Small fruits this season are running as high as twenty-five and thirty cents per quart on the shelf. "Many families turn up their noses at merely fruit for dessert in the winter. Then it is generally accompanied with cookies, or cake, which adds to the expense. A very good plan that I have adopted since my marriage is to put up less, and improve the quality. I buy the best to be had, and put it up in mv very best manner, and then I use it for special desserts, and find' that it is always relished by members of waste the family. It is a different question *where fruit is going to waste in one's own yard. That must be taken care of. . Another I find in many homes is the hurriedly prepared jelly pr jam and preserves. They are not properly cared for, made with little interest, sometimes burnt, the jelly is tough and leathern, consequently they stand on the shelf to sugar and mold and are then thrown out in the springtime. Fruit that is kept from year to year Is never so good as when used up each year. With so many canning clubs being organized throughout our state, the fruit and vegetables should not go to waste. There the girls have their outfit and the fruit can be taken care of at a low cost. Let the members of your families have all the fruit they want while it is on. It can be had until nearly Thanksgiving time, and then there are so many nice varieties of apples that can be stored for winter. Put into your cellar for the winter the Snow apple, the Wealthy, the Macatosh Red. all these for early use. . The Jonathan, Rhode Island Greening, Roman Beauty, and Winter Pearmain for later use, and thus the problem of apples is solved. Soon the oranges, bananas, figs and dates 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. come, and with prunes and dried fruit, I see no reason for the average woman to fret her life away canning fruit. Housekeepers who have cash to spend, and who have no orchard, will find it more economical as to time, labor, and money, to purchase canned fruits by the case, in the fall, when prices are low. Our own Utah canneries hold the record for quality and price. RECIPES FOR WARM WEATHER. Cheese Pudding. 1 c. bread crumbs. 1 c. grated cheese, or cut in small 2 a. salt. pieces. 4 eggs. 1 c. milk. Soak crumbs in milk. Add salt and cheese. Then the yolks and lastly the whites beaten stiff. Bake in moderate beaten slightly oven until set. Spanish Rice. 1 c. washed rice. 2 medium pimentos cut fine, or 2 c. strained tomato. green peppers. 3 c. water. 2 tb. butter. 2 medium onions cut fine. Bring to the boiling point. Bake in covered dish one hour. leak's Oatmeal Cookies. 2-3 c. butter. 1 c. sugar;-. 2 c. raisins, cut fine. 3 eggs. 1 1. nutmeg. 1 c. nuts, cut fine. V2 c. sour milk. 2 t. cinnamon. 2 c. oatmeal. 1 c. flour. 1 1. soda. Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs. Put milk and flour, oatmeal and seasoning, raisins and nuts. Dissolve the soda in a little warm water. Drop from a spoon and bake in a quick oven. Chocolate Gelatine Pudding. 1 envelope gelatine.  c. water. 3 c. milk scalded. 1 t. vanilla. 1 c. sugar. 2 squares chocolate. Serve with whipped cream. Soak gelatine in water. Melt chocolate. Add a little of hot milk at a time until all chocolate is blended. Add remaining ingredients. Set away to harden. The Prince of Ur 3 Homespun. As Abram made his slow way back to the palace and the city, his mind dwelt heavily on the unhappy events of this day now passing so rapidly into the brief, golden, evening hours of the Orient. With the clear prescience, which was a part of his seeric gift, he knew that he was approaching the very crux and crisis of his life. Hitherto, his years had flowed along placidly, if somewhat strenuously in the city of Salem, in the house of his forefather, Shem, with his deep study, his profound discoveries in mathematics and astronomy, his travels into Egypt and adjoining countries, for purposes of culture and wider associations. He had marked with constantly increasing sorrow the degeneracy and growing wickedness of the peoples of the earth. He knew whereof he sorrowed, for he had discoursed with princes and savants, had fought on the plains of Shinar in his Uncle Shem's armies, had met and vanquished the wild beasts of the jungles and the wilder savages of the inner steppes of the eastern lands. He had supped with merchants of Ionia and dined with philosophers of Elam and Idumia. And among them all the unbelief and the gradual and subtle changing of the truths of heaven had become wholly universal. In it all, his clear vision had detected the sin, no matter how elegantly it had been robed with sophistry; his spirit had focussed the apostasy, howsoever it had been cloaked with guile and hypocrisy. He sought for truth — for light— for the powers of the everlasting priesthood, which was without end of days and without father or mother. Only in one place — blessed Salem, under the reign of the King of Salem, Melichizedek, or Shem — was there to be found the gospel in its fulness, simplicity and purity. Well, he was now in Ur of the Chaldees by his own choice. His forefathers' household had been located there for many centuries; and like the true and obedient oriental son that he was, he could not wilfullv draw away from the loyal service he owed to the father of his father, who was at once the head of the tribe and its shepherd, king, satrap or petesi. His thoughts drifted to the poor black maidens and their grief and again he dwelt sadly upon the too-evident affections of his cousin Irit. What ailed the women of his household? Was there not Arphad — and Lot — and the many young and gracious warriors in his father's retinue? He was at the gateway of the city; and as he paused beside the great wall, where hundreds of travelers were now gathered in voluable exchange of friendly gossip — he saw the damsels of 410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the common people of the city trooping down to the wateringplace, their graceful bodies erect as the palm-tree, their shining eyes brilliant with health, their scarlet lips bearing full testimony to the red blood of health and youthful vigor which leaped in wild strains through their undisciplined bodies. Aye, undisciplined. For Abram knew that these city-dwellers — the lower orders of his countrymen and country-women, recruited as they were yearly from the hills and fields, were as given over to the fashionable vices of the day, as were their employers and masters. "If these lovely maidens only knew — if they only knew — " "Saidst thou aught?" queried a deep, musical voice at his side. Abram was unaware that his thoughts had found vocal expression. "Yes," he said; "I said that these lovely maidens were all unaware of the fierce fires of hell which wage in the city's and the temple's newly devised orgies and ravishments." "Thou speakest sharply concerning the religion of the state and the empire. Methinks the Emperor Nimrod would not care to listen to thy words." Abram looked keenly at the young stranger, who had thus accosted him. His scrutiny was amply rewarded. The look he caught in return was so candid and so friendly that Abram turned away with a sigh as he said: "Nimrod knows and knows that he knows — therefore, he is the most deadly apostate of them all." "Even so, my master, may we not be careful that these walls shall not betray our words?" Abram cast a glance upward to the great towers and parapets above them and as he looked, he caught the face of a lady leaning over the wall and looking down into his own with great interest. She threw out her rich scarf to the breeze and with a graceful gesture, she beckoned to him to come within the walls and join her on the public parapet in her evening promenade. "Thou seest one evidence of the virtue-destroying customs of these modern degenerate days? See! that is my lovely cousin who walks aimlessly forth in the public thoroughfare, and is no doubt unaccompanied save by her eunuch; is this a decency or a safe procedure for society or for our women?" "I seest that thou dost not agree with the Assyrian customs of giving women more than half the privileges and liberties enjoyed by the two sexes?" "Nay, she should have her just rights, as should man. Both are indissolubly linked together." "My master, you would not shut a woman up into her own cramped quarters, as do the desert tribes of Elam, and there confine A PRINCE OF UR. 411 her life and all its best activities to making beautiful embroideries and spinning cloth and rearing her big broods of helpless children? This is not the way, I am assured that father Adam, and Seth and Noah dealt with the women of their households. No stream rises higher than its source. And if the women are to be narrowed down, why so will men and women who are born of them be crafty, close and very insular in all their lives and ideals." "Nay, friend, you go quite to the other extreme, and portray a condition fit only for the rough men of the plains and for those whom Noah himself cast out for their hide-bound prejudices and conceptions. But there is a happy blending of the care and guardianship of women and of little children, which must mark the grave philosopher of life, a care which shall set a price on the head of any wicked man who invades the sanctuary of the home, and protect the virtue and the happiness of every woman of the tribe, with the blood of every man beneath that rooftree. Such are the ideals of a noble race." "But how can love be free and fond if women are kept under the cover of a thousand close conventions?" "Is love more sure than Providence? Freer? Is impulse and the fierce young fires of ungovernable immaturity a safer guide and protection than the loving protection and guardianship of wise parents?" "Then wouldst thou marry man with maiden from the choice of parents rather than the inclinations of the untrammeled human heart?" "Damascean, thou hast shown a wondrous insight into things which men have hidden in this wicked city under heaps of superstitious debris and sodden lusts. But I would ask thee to answer thine own question by asking still another: 'If God has made us, nay, has sent us here to do His will, having been children at His loving feet long before Father Adam first came down to people this broad earth, dost thou not feel that our Father — God, knows far better than we just whom to mate us with, and where and when? Even if that be not so, will parents be apt to make any more mistakes than would their unbridled children?' Come, face the truth squarely and like a man." "And what becomes of the worship of Astarte, if thou dost shut the women in behind closed lattice and barred gateways?" The face of Abram darkened with fierce horror. "That is the very thing I dread and fear the most — the vile and pernicious worship of a woman and of the powers and principles of nature. That brings to earth more misery and ruin than all the other sins of fife. It is unnatural, it brings with it all the hell-brood of accompanying vice and licentiousness. When men 412 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. have quite lost their natural desire for the simple, homely pleasures of this life, united with the glories and the pure visions of the 'Heavenly Home' to come, then ruin, stark vice and rotting corruption hold out with slimy hands their sensuous arms to enfold the race and prepare it for swift destruction. It was so in the days of father Noah. How much better are we today? Yea, my soul yearns over my father's household and the remnants of the tribes of Shem. Ah! my friend from Damascus, for I perceive thou art thus bred and reared, I love God, truth, virtue, holiness — where then shall my foot rest and my soul be at peace on the face of this broad earth?" "Master," quoth the Damascean merchant, "I have seen thee twice this day. Warned myself by dreams and visions that my future course lay towards Ur, I was told that I should find a prince of the Palace of Silver Light, whose counsel I should take and whose service I should enter. Thou art the man. I now offer to thee the right hand of compact; here by the city's gate. By my head — by my hand — by my thigh — I, Eliezer, swear and dedicate to Abram and to his household forever my true and loyal friendship and service." Moved to the very depths of his soul by this sudden and splendid confidence of the youthful stranger, Abram's eyes filled with grateful tears. As quickly responsive as only orientals could be, Abram turned aside from the busy drinking-fountain Place, and when in the shade of a friendly accacia tree, he struck hands thrice with his new servitor and said with profound affection: 'T, too, have been warned and forewarned by dreams and by the voice of inspiration that not many suns should rise above the Euphrates before I should find a new and generous friend, sent to me for my present comfort and my future well-being. I greet thee, Eliezer, and thus make answering compact. By nothing shall I swear — but to thee I offer my true and lasting friendship, protection in time of war, home and wage in times of peace, comfort and sustenance for thee and thine as long as son of Abram and of Eliezer shall live to fulfill this compact." "One thing, master — my best friend in this city is Javanu. He has come here but two days since from distant Tarshish and other parts. He has helped and taught me many things. Say naught to him of this accidental meeting and our quick covenant, but let him think that he has brought about much of our friendly association, which indeed he has." "So be it. And now, Eliezer, let us upward to the promenade on the parapet to see what this lady kinswoman of mine doth desire of Abram." The two men sauntered quietly up through the inner towered Stairs and out upon the broad parapet, where chariots drove recklessly A PRINCE OF UR. 413 past on the broad, paved road atop of the massive walls of Ur. There were soldiers in glittering array, their flashing spears held upright in their mailed fists. There was no need, perchance, for hasty driving, here in this peaceful roadway of the city — but when men and horses have used themselves to be in haste, and thus to prove their valor — well — what would you? There were groups of Assyrian ladies to pass and repass — and how shall ladies know that warriors are brave or proud, if horses prance not and swords show no glitter in the downcast sun-rays. Here and there carved stone benches made restful intervals for the crowds of lords and ladies of high degree who paced back and forth, and as they passed or met they gave each other slow and soft greeting or chatted idly and with scornful lightness concerning the day's doings. Under the shade of a drooping willow tree, a lady sat with every line of her tall and lithesome figure bespeaking the nobly born dame of fashion and elegance. Her eyes were brown, but washed out in color, as if some careless hand has dropped a bit of white liquid in the soft warm brown you felt belonged to her race and tribe. Her hands were long and slender — too long, and far too slender — you felt that if one could just shorten the lines and add some plumpness to the palm and fingers, they would be perfect. And thus also her face — it was almost perfectly moulded — almost perfect it was. But the very lack was most provoking. For instead of the perfect line of the nose, it cut short just before the gracious ending of that aristocratic member could be finished. And the chin — round and dimpled it was — but too long, too deeply indented. It was almost grotesque — so this foreign merchant considered, who had thus seen the lady for the first time — this aggravating lack in perfect outline. Just one touch here, a line there, an added roundness, and the face and form would be a model for artists of all time. And Eliezer had a proper sense of what was beautiful in the human face and form. Her figure, as she arose, was quite too slender, quite too pliant. There was something so like a hungry panther in the sinuous motion of her limbs, as they moved slowly in and out of her long, thin, white robes, as she approached the two men, that Eliezer felt the hair upon his head rise in superstitious horror at the very image his own imagination had called up. "Ah, cousin of mine — how happy is Ischa to see thy all-beholding eyes. What hath brought thee down from thy templed tower at this edge of evening light, when thy usual devotions carry thee far into the starlight, and even find thee kneeling — when Ishtar, our lovely Moon-goddess rises on the darkened plains of Shinar?" This pretty speech was delivered with a cat-like purring that 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. accentuated the impression upon the Damascean merchant. But he only stood in lowly reverence behind his new master's back and caught occasional glimpses of the shadowy lady as either of the principals in this courteous duet moved into his vision. "Ischa, might Abram not ask of thee what thou art doing on the public parapet when all the fashion and unbridled youths of the town are parading up and down to show their gaudy trapThe thin, scarlet lips of the girl, too cruel to be beautiful, too pings?" straight to be gracious, curled in mocking derision. "Should I not remember that Abram ever answers questions by asking others? And yet, Iscah forgets anything but her affection when she sees her handsome kinsman bowing low before her." The unmaidenly boldness of this laughing sally — intended to flatter and placate — roused Abram with disagreeable emotions. How he hated sycophancy! "Be quit of thy fashionable badinage. Speak me in the simple terms of our fathers' fathers' household. I am a Shemmite, -bred to arts of simplicity, and I like not fulsome compliments, even on the lips of my kinswoman." ^>" this time the lady's foot was tapping nervously on the tasselated pavement of the walk. She laughed, however, and with a momentary dropping of her worldly mask and manner, she said seriously: "Will Abram give speech to his kinswoman, if she will be the simple child of the shepherd's tent while she talks?" "When has Abram ever refused to listen to dear and favored Ischa?" Gratified at once to her very soul by the mollified kindliness of Abraham's tone, Ischa looked searchingly behind Abram and asked: "Whom have you here? Some new devotee of your pale and colorless religion? Or a merchant friend, stopping for Abram's quick hospitality, which is offered to all who bow beneath his roof-tree?" "This is a new friend, a new servant, who has but this evening covenanted himself to my loyal friendship and assistance. By name, Eliezer, a Damascean, your highness." "Shall Eliezer prove his newly found service by plucking from yon distant palm tree some leaves for the cooling of my heated brows?" Abram smiled as he saw the subtlety of the request. To reach the spreading leaves of the palm, required a most skilled climber, and only through the expenditure of much time and agility could any one hope to comply with the lady's request. She wanted to A PRINCE OF UR. 415 get rid of his servant. Well, be it so. Abram smiled his assent, and the merchant departed. The lady waited in vain for her kinsman to begin their tete-a-tete conversation. Abram seated himself gravely beside her and waited as gravely for her to open up her mind to him. She had asked for the talk, she must begin it. "Abram, thou knowest the long years that I have lived beneath our grandfather's roof. I was not born here, and my mother was not one of your tribe. But I have inherited my father's looks, and am I not like the tribe of Terah?" Thus adjured Abram looked critically at his young kinswoman. The puzzling inadequacy which had so tortured the imagination of  the Damascean now filtered into the mind of Abram. He had really never noted it before, had never permitted his imagination to bring the contrast out so sharply between her and the peerless Sarai. Truthful as he was he answered soberly: "Yes, Ischa, you are like — yet unlike — my father's race and children. There is a puzzling likeness and a puzzling difference. But surely you have all the gracious queenliness which belongs to our race and tribe." All of which was not at all what the wily damsel had wished or sought. She tried again — "Abram. when the sun is sinking thus behind the hills; the waters of the river shine up at us like jewelled ribbons, and the perfume of a hundred flowers fills our nostrils, I think of my mother's home in far off Phonecia, and I long to be there in that favored land. And yet — my heart is here, and my lips quiver with the tender drawing emotions which chain me to Ur and to your own side. Look at me — see how my heart thrills and my eyes He turned as he was bid; the crimson mouth softened all into yearn." curves and the eyes were filled with the dews of her plaintive, sudden sorrow, while beneath the long lashed eyelids there welled up a devotion and a passionate admiration which no man could deceive himself about. The sight of her trembling lips, her tear-wet €yes, her heaving bosom and the look of wild desire wrought in Abram quite another emotion to what she had anticipated. Without one word he arose and threw out his arms as if he were being strangled. After one moment, he had gained complete control of the inner storm, both of fear and contempt, and he slowly returned to find his lovely cousin sobbing into her gauzy abaya as if her heart would break. Her long and somewhat thin, dark hair "broke from its rich fillet and came tumbling down in ungraceful disorder about her writhing body. She was a sight to inspire a good man with the annoyance which her kinsman felt. But he controlled even that, and said quietly: 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Ischa, do not be foolish. Be a wise and a good girl. There is nothing which is good and righteous forbidden to you, no wish is left ungratified. You have all the world to choose from, and God will bring your life to a happy consummation, if you will but put your trust in Him." She said nothing, but threw her arms around him and clung to him with desperate energy. The sight of two people thus engaged in what looked like a public quarrel, brought many idle people around them, and finally Abram could bear it no more; he released the clinging arms, beckoned to Ischa's eunuch and her maids, and bade them take their mistress to her home; then he strode proudly away. The merchant Eliezer was still dickering with tree climbers to get the lady's fans. But as Abram found his way down the dark and tower steps, he muttered to himself — "What ails the women of my father's household? Have they all gone stark, staring mad? Irit — and now Ischa — while Zillah — Ah, I fear that she is the source and the root of all this uncanny trouble. Plague upon the women — nay — I will say better, — God help them to be women and not wantons." (to be continued) GENEALOGICAL CLASSES FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. On Friday and Saturday, October 1 and 2, the Relief Society conference will be held in Salt Lake City. There will be four genealogical classes held, at 4:30 p. m. on Friday and Saturday, October 1 and 2, and Tuesday and Wednesday, October 5 and 6, in the Bishop's Building, under the auspices of the General Board of the Relief Society. The attendance at these classes will be optional. All will be heartily welcome. No delegates will be called. Sunday, September 20, will doubtless be observed as Genealogical Day. We would like our sisters to co-operate with the Genealogical representatives and agents in the proper observance of this day, and suggest that a full report of our Congress in San Francisco given by one v^^ho was present there, or a synopsis of this report might occupy a portion of the program. Notes from the Field. By The General Secretary, Mrs. Amy B. Lyman. A few changes have been made in the Taylor stake recently. Mrs. Georgina O'Brien of Raymond has been made President, and following is a complete list of officers: Counselors, Mary McCarty and Mariah Scovil, Secretary, Verena Redd, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary, Ivie Smith, Organist and Chorister, Augusta Erickson. Board Members: Ivie Smith, Jezeil Merkley, in charge of art; Augusta Ericson, Jennie Eawns, in charge of ethics; May Weed, in charge of theology; Margaret Allred, in charge of genealogy. It will be noted that in this stake the Board members have been given a specific line of work to be responsible for, thus relieving the President of these details, and giving her more time for the executive work connected with her office. On May 23rd, the Young stake was reorganized. There were no changes made in the offices of President and Treasurer, President Mrs. Mary M. Halls, Counselors Mrs. Mary E. Lamb and Mrs. Mary Zufelt, Sectreary Mrs. Harriet M. Stephens, Treasurer, Harriet Ellis, Organist Minnie Wheeler, Chorister Vida B. Halls, Missionaries, Mrs. Sarah Young, and Mrs. Agnes Slade. A reorganization of Benson stake took place June 21st. Mrs. Rebecca L. Rawlins, who has faithfully performed her duty, as stake president for a great number of years, was honorably released. Mrs. Rawlins has given excellent service in the Relief Society, and will always be affectionately remembered. The new officers are: President, La Preil Hyer, Counselors, Bessie C. Merrill, Margaret P. Hendricks, Secretary and Treasurer, Alice T.. Barnett, Board members: Jane Hendricks, Olive Harris, Alice Harris, Harriet C. Larson, Viola Kent, Maude Roskelley, and Larnia Anderson. Visitors from the Arizona stakes report that it has always been the rule in these stakes to hold weekly Relief Society meetings in the wards. Much of their success in the past has been attributed to this custom. Because they were so thoroughly established in this respect, the wards in these stakes have taken up all of the work outlined by the Board during the last two years, and have been greatly benefitted by the same, Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. An American submarine that will cross the Atlantic to Europe and return without finding it necessary to take on new supplies has been built. Thus undersea navigation makes rapid progress. The Ogden choir had a very pleasant trip to the great fairs in California, where it did Utah much good by its charming music and equally charming membership. It is explained by Germany that the torpedoing of the American steamship Nebraskan was a mistake. Too many of these are causing a suspicion of intention. Conditions in Mexico grow steadily worse, and present a more immediate danger of armed conflict involving the United States than does any European crisis. Utah is specially interested in the fact that the powers that be in Washington have conceded the point that a protective tariff is necessary on one great American industry in which Utah is largely interested, namely, the manufacture of sugar. The Pioneer Day celebration in Salt Lake City, in 1915, was a notably successful event, strongly reminiscent of the spirit of celebrations in Utah in earlier days, when everybody joined in with cheerfulness and goodwill. While the American national administration is taking vigorous steps toward placing the country in a state of effective defense in the event of war, it need not be supposed that even the critical situation between the United States and Germany will reach to the extent of open hostilities. There are many diplomatic paths yet open. * The women of Great Britain are taking the place of men in the factories which manufacture munitions of war for the British army. This manner of militarism doubtless will prove much more efficacious in securing the elective franchise for the women there than did the recent methods of the militant English suffragette. CURRENT TOPICS. 419 The allied armies which are attempting to force the Dardanelles appear to be making slow progress; but the fact that they are progressing steadily means notable results within a few weeks. Meanwhile the British army from the British Indian side has advanced past Baghdad along the Euphrates valley, on the way toward the Turkish capital. On July 24 an appalling catastrophe at Chicago resulted in the drowning of some 1200 persons, mostly women and children. The employees of the Western Electric Company were out for a picnic, and about 2500 of them were on the fast excursion steamer Eastland, which capsized in the Chicago river, while being loaded at the company's pier. A government investigation has been ordered, and it probably will result in the adoption of a rule such as had been in vogue in Europe for a third of a century, prohibiting high and narrow water-ballasted vessels from engaging in the excursion traffic, because of a well-grounded fear that such vessels would "turn turtle" when heavily loaded with human freight. The appreciation of the people of Utah at the opportunity of viewing that notable relic of the American Revolution, the Liberty Bell, was exhibited in marked degree by the way in which everyone who could do so came to view it, and in the gratifying spirit of patriotism and reverence displayed. Nowhere along the whole route of its travel did the Bell receive a more cordial welcome than in the Beehive State. The fact that it was brought here on Sunday gave the privilege of beholding it to a larger number than otherwise would have been the case, and added materially to the spirit of devotion so strongly manifested by the assembled multitudes. The German note in reply to the second communication of protest from the United States over the torpedoing of the Lusitania evaded the direct issue raised, and called forth a plain and forcible third note from this Government, warning Germany that a repetition by German naval commanders of acts in contravention of the rights of neutrals under established international law, when those acts affected American citizens, would be regarded by this Government as "deliberately unfriendly." While the German government manifestly was irritated by the decided and unmistakable stand taken by the American Government, the American people have become more solidly unanimous in the conviction that this nation has on its side the absolute right of the question at issue. EDITORIAL Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. SEPTEMBER, 1915. Vol. II. SEPTEMBER, 1915. No. 9 HISTORY IN THE MAKING. The men and women who laid the foundations of the Church in modern times, beginning with the great Prophet Joseph Smith, on down to our present leader, President Joseph F. Smith, ? these and their associates knew the value and historical importance of the work they were doing. They were, and are, makers of history ? and they knew it then, and know it today. The Spirit of the Lord giveth understanding, and individuals who enjoy that Spirit know when great history is in the making. Few events in history will transcend the recent International Congress of Genealogy. President Joseph F. Smith remarked at the evening session of our Utah Genealogical Day, July 27, that the labor now going forward in our temples, and the preparatory work performed by the genealogists were the most important requirements upon the people today. We are justified therefore in saying that the Congress just closed was a most important world-movement. Many of those who took part scarcely realized this; but it will be understood some day by all of our Father's children. EDITORIAL. 421 Just as two cords are doubly strong, and two hundred cords wound together, hold a ship at anchor, so two individual genealogists, and two hundred genealogical associations grouped together, will anchor a great movement of genealogical unification and solidarity, with a scope and interest which can scarcely be estimated by those not gifted with prophetic vision. The results of the work done at the Panama-Pacific Exposition rest "on the knees of the gods." There is a personal note in this recent history which is a life-and-death matter to every one. What shall be your attitude, and mine, to the work projected by the "International Genealogical Federation?" We are weighed in the daily balance, and the results mean progress, life, light, happiness, here and hereafter, to you and to me, or it means the decay and degeneration of hope, faith, and joy. What history shall we, as individuals, make in this movement? The initiative, the courage, and the tact of the California Genealogists won the admiration and gratitude of every intelligent genealogist in the country. Add to that the breadth of sympathy, the whole-souled welcome, and the generous treatment, accorded to every visitor present, including each member of the Utah Genealogical party, and you have a combination which would spell success for any enterprise. Californians spoke of Utah as the father of California; right well has the debt been liquidated in the recent marvelous Exposition, where Utahns have been welcomed and honored as never before in our history. Especially was this true of the Genealogical Congress. No favor that could be shown, no entertainment that could be arranged, no honor that could be given, was withheld from the Utah party, by the Californians. Time and eternity cannot efface our pleasant memories, nor suffice for the expression of our gratitude. May it not be true that the power and influence of the multitudes of departed spirits ? who have rejoiced over this movement far more than can we ? have not these influences conspired to bring about much that has been done? The courteous, gracious, and unprejudiced attitude of the Californians, as of other genealogists there, may owe something to the influence of departed ancestors who there saw a wide swing of their prison doors. History has been making not only in Utah, and not only in California, but also behind the veil, in the shadowy realms of the departed spirits. Blessed are they who give eyesight to blind eyes, who "bring out the prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison-house." Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. the passover or sacrament. We who are privileged to partake of the Lord's Supper each Sunday, scarcely attach the importance and sacredness to that mystic ordinance which was felt and observed by the Jews, in partaking of their yearly feast of the Passover, The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is really the same ordinance as the Passover, modified by the Savior himself, to fit the world's needs after his death. Most of the Christian churches observe this rite but only at rare intervals. Catholics term it Holy Mass; other Christian churches speak of it as Communion. By the Latter-day Saints, who have been privileged by the Lord to partake of this wonderful and mystic sacrament each Sunday, it should be observed in the most sacred, and beautiful manner. The students will find this subject treated upon clearly and fully in the Compendium, under the head of "The Passover or Sacrament:" "This word (passover) comes from the Hebrew verb, pesach, which signifies to pass, to leap, or skip over. They gave the name of Passover to the feast which was established in commemoration of the coming forth out of Egypt, because the night before their departure, the destroying angel, who slew the firstborn of the Egyptians, passed over the Israelites, because they were marked with the blood of the lamb which was killed the evening before; and which for this reason was called the Paschal Lamb." ? Cruden's Concordance. We have an account of the institution of the Passover in the twelfth chapter of Exodus. The Lord commanded Israel, saying, "And the day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever" (verse 14). This command rather implies that there might be a change in the manner and time of keeping this passover, by the house of Israel. The essential part of it is that it shall be kept as a feast forever. GUIDE LESSONS. 423 That the Passover, as instituted the evening before the departure of Israel out of Egypt, was typical of the sacrifice of the Lamb of God, appears to be the generally received opinion of all who have faith in the Bible and its institutions. It is evident that the apostle Paul entertained this view of the subject when he made the following assertion, "For even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us" (I Cor. 5:7). That our Savior considered the ordinance of the Passover a part of the Mosaic law which was to be done away in his sufferings and death, is evident from the wish which he expressed to his disciples, while keeping the Passover with them the evening before his death, "With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer" (Luke 22:15). The type was no longer needed and the ordinance was changed to commemorate the great sacrifice he was about to make. Hence, he commanded his disciples to partake of the bread and wine in remembrance of him. QUESTIONS. 1. What is the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper? 2. What was the Jewish Passover? 3. Ask some converted sister to explain the Methodist way of observing this rite. The Catholic. The Episcopalian. Other sects. 4. What is the difference between the Passover and the Sacrament? 5. What is the likeness between the two ceremonies? 6. Who should administer the sacrament? 7. Who should receive it? 8. What should be our attitude towards the Lord's Supper? Genealogy. Third Week, relationship. This subject is somewhat difficult to most people, but it is extremely important to all who would understand how to prepare temple records, and to adjust the ties of relationship properly and accurately. Relationship clues are far more vital than are generally believed, and no record should be left without these ties being well established. We told you in our last lesson that the heir should be the same person, living or dead, because of the necessity of counting relationship from the heir to the dead. Let us make an illustration: You will see that Brigham Young is the heir of the family and that relationship is counted from him back to the other names. He is the son, grandson, nephew or cousin of them, and it is his relationship to the dead that is named, not theirs to him. This is very much clearer and easier than any other way. Let each student take his parents, and then his grandparents, naming himself as heir, for purposes of illustration, and prepare his lesson on this model. Home Ethics and Art. WORK. Work is the heritage of man. It is his mission on the earth ? his everlasting duty. The Lord told Adam that he should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. "In the sweat of thy face, shalt thou eat bread." One writer, in speaking of work, says: "Whoever prohibits or prevents a man from this, his sacred appointment, to labor, is that man's deadliest enemy, and all men are called upon to do what is in their power towards delivering him from this enemy. If it is his own indolence that prevents or prohibits him, then his own indolence is the enemy from which he must be delivered." Thomas Carlyle says: "All work is noble: Blessed is he that has found his work: let him ask no other blessedness. Two men I honor, and no third. First, the toilworn craftsman, who with earth-made implement laboriously conquers the earth, and makes her man's. A second man I honor, and still more highly: him who is seen toiling for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread of life. These two in all their degrees I honor; all else is chaff and dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth. We must all toil, or steal (howsoever we name our stealing), which is worse." Every necessity and comfort of life is produced through the effort and labor of some person or persons. There is no article of food or clothing so simple that it can be procured without work. If this necessary labor is not performed by the individual who actually eats the food or wears the clothing, some one else must do the work. Thus, it may be clearly seen, that the greater the number of people who are idle, the greater must necessarily be the labor of those who do work, and the heavier must be the burdens which the workers are compelled to bear. There are only three classes of people that should be exempt from work: the very young, the very old, and those who are ill. Young children are expected to live by the work of their parents. 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the aged have earned a necessary rest, and those who are ill and afflicted, must be labored for by other hands. All others should work. The idle rich and the idle poor are equally a burden and a menace to society. However easy it may be, from the financial point of view, for some parents to rear their children without work, society cannot afford to let them do this and maintain a proper social balance. Parents should put forth whatever of time and effort may be required of them, in order to teach their children how to work, and to show children the true value of work. Every child should be trained to earn his living; and this training should be begun early. The child should acquire the habit of work, and industry in his youth. He should get this habit in his nerve-centers at the earliest possible period. A child who grows up with idle hands is never the adept at any work that he might have been had he been given the opportunity to begin work early. Many men, who by industry and perseverance, have become eminently successful in a financial way, wonder how it is that their boys seem to have no talents whatever in the same direction. Such fathers do not stop to realize that in order to achieve efficiency along any lines, boys must have a certain training, in early childhood, and must go through certain experiences while the mind is plastic. If it is desirable that the son of the wealthy man be like the father, this son must have a training, or experience similar to the training and experience that the father has had. This may not mean that he should do exactly the things that his father did, and duplicate the experience that his father had ? but it does mean that he must be brought up along the same general lines of efficiency training. It is a noticeable fact that the daughter of the hard-working, industrious mother, is often a shiftless, irresponsible girl and woman. This is at first glance a thing to be wondered at. On a second thought, however, we understand how it comes about. The mother foolishly does all of the work herself, and the daughter is thus deprived of the opportunity to tread the path of training which her mother enjoyed. What a mistake this is! If any girl is to be industrious, she must have early experience in the school of industry; and if she is to be a worker in the world, she must have long training in the school of efficiency and hard work. It is of course true that some children turn out badly in spite of the best training; and some become useful members of society, even when their surroundings are most unfortunate. There are some who are brought up in idleness, and who later become workers; there are others who are brought up to work, and later become idlers. As a rule, however, everything depends upon the GUIDE LESSONS. 427 training that is given children, and the experiences through which they pass as they grow up; and other things being equal the child brought up in idleness will be an idler, while he who is brought up to work will be a toiler in the hive of industry. It may be desirable, and even necessary, that the rich boy shall take up a different line of work from that taken up by the poor boy, as each will have his own field of labor, and a different place in the social organism. But every child should be taught to work and to realize that all honest, conscientious labor is honorable. Women should not shirk the responsibility of work, nor the more vital responsibility of teaching their children to work. Olive Schreiner says that the development of the race depends upon the activity of the women. She holds, that every woman should be busy, and should either have an opportunity to work, or make an opportunity to work. The sphere of woman is usually in the home; but the fact that a woman may at any time be compelled to support herself and her children, makes it highly important that she have the ability to earn a living, and that she make the best possible use of acquiring skill in any legitimate line that may be open to her. The acquiring of wealth is not the sole object of industry, nor is it always the result of industry; but poverty is sooner or later the inevitable result of laziness, or the lack of industry. The industrious man may or may not be wealthy, but he is assured of a moderate competence, which he feels and knows is necessary to the fullest development of his powers, and the fullest enjoyment of life. The lazy man, on the other hand, is assured of nothing; and unless he is constantly given money, he must endure poverty. Even if he inherits wealth, he loses it. He is generally too weak to use it wisely, and eventually it goes. One writer says, "He that is able and will not work, let him perish." While there are many people in the world who will not work, there are some who overwork. It is universally admitted "that all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy;" and it must, therefore, be borne in mind that occasional relief from work is as necessary to the fullest life as is work itself. To undertake more than one is able to do is wrong, and the results that come from such a course of overwork are disastrous. Overwork lowers the resistance and impairs the process of nutrition. The man who overworks, gets little enjoyment out of life, and is old before his time. He breaks nature's laws, and must pay the penalty. Let time be used wisely, but let it be regarded as a treasure that is limited. 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. QUESTIONS. 1. Why should all healthy men work? 2. Why is work an opportunity? 3. Explain how a man's own indolence is his enemy. 4. Explain why the benefits of work are two-fold. 5. Give Carlyle's idea of work. 6. How is a community or even the world affected by idle people? 7. When should the work habit be formed in the life of an individual? 8. Why are the children of industrious parents often lazy and incompetent? 9. How is it that the daughter of the hard working mother is often shiftless? 10. Why does the rich man's son often become a poor man? 11. What should be the attitude of women? 12. What is the result of honest, well directed labor? 13. What is the result of idleness? 14. Discuss overwork. REFERENCES. Prov. 19:15; Tim. 5:13; Prov. 6:6-11; 10:4,26; 12:24,27; 13:4; 15:19; 18:9; 19:15, 24; 20:4, 13; 21:25; 22:13; 23:21; 24: 30; 26:13; Eccl. 10:18; Ez. 16:49; I Tim. 4:11; II Tim. 3:10; I Titus 5:13; Heb. 6:12. ART. Mahonri M. Young, Sculptor and Painter. Devotees and their Shrines, pages 84 to 93. (a) Tell of Young's parentage and ancestry. From whom does he inherit art qualities, as well as great intellectuality? (b) Describe "Hon's" gift and indicate the direction in which he has used it. (c) Describe his monument to the gulls on Temple Square. (d) Describe his bronze figures of the Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum. They are extremely good portraits of the character of each of the men. Describe the character of each as portrayed by Mr. Young. Suggestion: Assign c and d to some members who are going to the October Conference, and ask them to make a close study of the statuary and monument to give at home in the lesson. (e) Study and describe the artist's wife (Celia Sharp). Does the bust show the artist's affection? GUIDE LESSONS. 429 (f) Relate the story of the sea-gulls, as related by B. H. Roberts, on page 90 of the art book. (g) Describe: Plowing, (h) Deliverance, (i) Harvesting, (j) Give a character sketch of B. H. Roberts as elaborated in bronze by Young. (k) To what is Young's national fame due? (l) Why did not "Hon" give up when he went so many months without an order, after his return home? What was his first order? (m) What commissions has he filled for the "Mormon" Church? (n) Describe his sculptures at the San Francisco Exposition? (o) Why should the people of Utah be loyal to Hon Young? (p) Has Hon Young been loyal to the people of Utah? In what way has he shown it? (q) If history were told in an inartistic way, it must be soon forgotten. What will result, if history is told in a highly artistic way? The final deduction would be that if we would perpetuate the achievements of our noble ancestors in redeeming a desert, and in establishing commonwealths in the tops of the mountains, we must employ artists, such as Hon Young, to create our statuary and memorials. Clothing for Women Past Forty. By The Two Sarahs. SKIRTS. To the question of Why do we wear clothes? I hear the answer of many women, To be in fashion. Human clothing has three reasons why, first health, second decency, third beauty. "Health demands maintenance of a proper temperature of the body, protection from the elements, perfect liberty of action, and freedom from pressure. Decency demands covering, distinction between dress of men and women, that no mistake can be made, fitness for the age and character of the wearer, concealment ? where possible ? of any unseemly personal defect. Beauty demands truthfulness. The dress must be genuine without any false pads; using graceful forms of drapery, har430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. mony of colors, a moderate consistency with prevailing styles, as shall produce the impression of sociability and suavity and avoid self-assertion. The dress suiting the wearer as if it were an outer body belonging to the same soul." The very attractive, not too short, skirt of the coming season will meet all these demands; being a complete covering and protection, giving freedom of action, because of its fullness, perfectly sanitary as to its length, while no question could arise as to its sex, and there is no call for pads or heavy lining to make it stylish. So long live the decidedly charming skirt of 1915. Webster says the skirt is that part of the lady's garment which comes below the waist, but Dame Fashion says, "it shall be above the waist line," and so it is and so it will remain another season. A slender person may choose a style that falls a little full from the waist, or the pretty two, three or five-piece ripple or flare skirt; or one with the panel front and inverted plaits at the side. For the stouter lady the skirt with the hip section or a yoke, and a slight ripple from the hip down, has a graceful effect; she too can wear the plaits if pressed and tacked closely to within three or four inches of the bottom of the skirt. Choice of materials is not limited; for winter use our own Provo Woolen Mills goods; we have the poplins, serges, gabardines, broadclothes and the delightful taffetas; large plaids in silks and serges are going to be quite the thing, and one of the newest skirts is a combination of taffeta and serge. For a serviceable street skirt, choose home-made broadcloth, a poplin or a serge in black or navy blue, three yards and half; waist belting, from two and a half to four or five inches wide, a skirt braid, one spool silk, and one spool thread, same color as material. Pin all your pattern carefully on the material before cutting. If the goods has a nap or an up and down pattern, you will have to cut the goods all one way; if not, the pattern can be turned up or down to save material. After cutting and basting, fit the belt, sewing on the hooks and eyes, then fit the skirt on the belt, pinning the skirt in to fit the figure. Regulation length is three to four inches from the ground. To obtain an even all around length, have the person stand on the table, take a piece of cardboard the required number of inches from the floor, and mark with chalk or pins. The seams cut on the bias should be finished with a piece of tape or straight goods to prevent it from sagging. The peg-top skirt can be made quite up to date, by turning it upside down, letting out the plaits for the flare on the bottom of the skirt and fitting the bottom of the skirt in to the belt. 430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. TWO GOOD BOOKS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY LIBRARIES. We wish to recommend to our readers the priceless collection of extracts from the Prophet Joseph's writings, called "Joseph Smith's Teachings." The work is divided and sub-divided into topics with a good table of contents. Saints who prize the Gems in the Compendium will appreciate this rich feast of extracts from the lips of our beloved Prophet, the price, 75 cents. Another faith-promoting book is Elizabeth R. Cannon's "Cities of the Sun." This is a collection of charming stories formed on historical incidents in the Book of Mormon. The book is well illustrated and is cheap enough to permit any family to own one. We hope our sisters will enjoy the reading of this little book as much as we have; it fills the heart of the reader with gratitude, the eye with beautiful images and the soul with faith. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street Don't Throw the Old Mesh Bag Away No matter how badly it is worn we can put it in shape just as good as new. Send it in we give you the cost of repairs first. McCONAHAY The JEWELER 64 MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Questions for the September art lesson will appear in our August number. All active members and art supervisors should send to us for the art reference book Devotees and Their Shrines $1.25 POSTPAID THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design ? beautiful in finish ? pure and sweet, rich and full in tone ? the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" Do You Appreciate the Value of City Bank Connections This is a very important question to people living in the country. You never know at what moment the right bank connections will be needed. Start a savings account with this bank today, either in person or by mail, and we will add 4 per cent, interest as earned. "The Bank with a Personality" Merchants Bank Capital, $250,000. Member of Salt Lake Clearing House. John Pingree, Prest.; Chas. E. Kaiser, V. P.; A. H. Peabody, Cashier. Cor. Main and 3rd So., Salt Lake City, Utah. REAL BUTTER FLAVOR There are two brands of butter with real butter flavor ? "Blanchard" and "Four-in-one." These butters taste right because they are made right. They are the product of fresh, sweet thoroughly tested cream, from cows that graze in the finest pastures of rich green clover. One pound will convince you of its superiority over other brands. MUTUAL CREAMERY COMPANY 11 Creameries in 7 States. Authorized Capital, $3,000,000. Annual Butter Output, 8,000,000 pounds The purpose of this Bank is at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Supplies for Temple Uses Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Instruction begins Monday, September 20th. Registration of students, and entrance examinations on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, September 16th, 17th, 18th. Beautiful grounds, fine buildings and equipment, and specialists in all departments are AT YOUR SERVICE. Courses are offered that prepare for almost any vocation in addition to giving a broad and liberal education ? a preparation for a life as well as a living. The credits of the University of Utah are accepted in full by the best Universities in the United States. Full information sent upon request. University of Utah SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ASK YOUR DEALER FOR Z. C. M. I. Western Scout Shoes The ideal summer shoes for men, youths and boys. Worn extensively by carpenters, iron workers, boy scouts, etc. Cheap, Serviceable, Comfortable. "Mountaineer" and "The Leader" Overalls don't rip; they are guaranteed for wear. The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West ARE REACHED VIA Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River and Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts Excursions North September 11 and 25 Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, General Passenger Agent, O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah 