fspring comes out of the shell a uscful or beautiful creature. Third, an ugly and creeping caterpillar is transformed into a beautiful butterfly. It is true, that in all of these cases there has been no death of the physical forerunner of the new creation, but there is a foreshadowing of the passing from one life to another. Only a part of the human soul—the body—dies, as only a part of the kernel of wheat dies. The analogies are not altogether good, but the foreshadowing is there. We do rise to a newness of life. God calls our spirits out of these earthly temples for awhile and then, having made them clean, glorious, and incortuptible, he resurrects our bodies and reunites spirit and body to receive a fulness of glory. At least, he gives us that fulness which our life's work entitles us to receive. While Jesus yet lived on earth, he said: "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me" (John 12:32). He was lifted up from the earth. He was taken down and put into the earth. That first resurrection morning, while it was yet dark, he came out of the earth. He now has the power to draw all men unto him. More than five hundred people saw him upon this earth after he was resur- 221 rected (1 Cor. 15:6). No facts in ancient history are better attested than that Jesus lived; that he was crucified and his body sealed in a tomb; that he was resurrected from the dead and ministered in his immortal body to his disciples. 'Those men whom he had chosen while he was yet with them on earth and dwelling in a mortal body, now saw him in his immortal body. It was a reality. Jesus, alone, of all the founders of religions, proclaimed himself "the resurrection and the life." Those who desire and believe in the continuity of individual life in a world as real as this must believe in Christ. He, only, promises that to the children of men. Of all the characters who cross the pages of history, Jesus is the only one who declared that he would lay his body down and take it up again. And he added: "I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it up again." He did that very thing. ORE and more men are doubting that Jesus was resurrected and that he is now the living Chnist, the only begotten Son of God in the flesh. They regard him as the greatest teacher of all time and many say he was a "manifestation of the divine in human life." Others believe that he actually took his body from the tomb and again incarnated or reincarnated himself in that body for about forty days. At the end of that period, he discarded the body and went back into the everywhereness condition in which he lived before being born of the virgin Mary. Such doctrine, how-. Ever, is not scriptural, nor does it 222 gquiare with reason. Esus was the exemplar—the prototype—of the human family. "He matked the path and led the way." "He was the first fruits of the resurrection." He kept his body. He has it now. He has been seen of men in our day. He has a glorified, celestialized, immortal body. The writer of this article has made a somewhat careful study of comparative religions and of the founders of sects and churches. Not one of the founders of religions ever made the claim of being a God while he lived as a mortal man, €Xcept Jesus Christ. He boldly proclaimed himself a God, even the "All things were Cte " 'To an adverse group esus answered and said this temple, and in three will raise it up - he spake of the temple of his body (John 2:19; 21). This was said undet conditions which, if not true, could easily have been shown to be false. Indeed, his saying that he would take up his body in three days was remembered by his enemies after his crucifixion. The Jews requested of Pilate: disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say risen from the dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way, make it as sure as ye Can. So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting 4 watch (Matt. 27:64-66). The action taken was, in effect, a challenge to the poweet and godship of Christ. The challenge was met. Jesus came out of the tomb, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 the conqueror of death, hell, and the grave. That is the very thing that he said he would do. 'There are many who want always to sutround God's work in mystery. Let us frankly admit that the resurrection must be accepted largely upon faith. We accept myriads of things on faith. That does not mean that they are not real. Faith leads us to seek God, and revelation from him shows us how needed light and information