An Easter Party for the Children Elizabeth Williamson TF you are having an Easter party for small children, it is well to make your plans in advance, Children want continuous action, Egg treasure hunt anda few games such as "Pin the Tail on the Lamb." Luncheon, Dyeing Easter eggs. Greet the children at the door with a clue telling each child where to find his €gss Or prizes. Let each one draw a paper egg from a basket. The gold egg is the grand prize. Keep this a secret, because your own children will not be eligible for the Prize, but it will be great fun for them to keep the secret with you. If the children are too young to read, you might draw simple sketches on the clues so they will be able to find the prizes. Brightly colored toweling, blue, Ted, or yellow, cut into shapes of ducks, bens, lambs, and other Easter symer booklets of the colorful, dimestore variety, make welcome prizes, or bags of colored jelly-beans may be The grand prize, which is Claimed by the one who draws the golden egg, ls a live white bunny. After the children have seen and admired the bunny, it is suggested that it remain outdoors until it is time to leave the Party. It is a good idea, also, to have the children put aside their prizes until the party is over. It is possible to decorate the table 'ive way with things which you can child's name on a strip of paper and paste the ends together. When this is dry, set the boiled egg init. Put eyes and nose and a few whiskers on the egg with ink, and you will have a gay rabbit for a placecard. Page 267 268 For the favors make little nests of shredded, colored papers or cellophane filled with candy eggs. 'These eggs can be brought to the table after the luncheon is finished. MENU Any lamb dish: lamb stew, lamb patties, lamb chops, or lamb roast. Carrot salad in gelatin mold. Rice or baked potatoes Milk Peas Dessert: ice cream with cookies shaped like rabbits, lambs, or ducks. After lunch, in the kitchen, the children may enjoy coloring Easter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 eggs under your supervision. The eggs should be cooked the night before the party. The children can use their imagination and make designs with tape, stars, dots, cut-out flowers, and other motifs. Prepared designs can be purchased at the dime store. Paste them on the eggs before the dyeing process. Some of the stickers can be left on, and some are more effective if removed. For example, the tape can be taken off, leaving a contrasting stripe. The children will want to take the decorated eggs home to show their parents. Joanna Margery §. Stewart neighbors to shake her hand, and Wish her well, and to Say you, Joanna," They brought her gifts in the Weeks that followed—flour, bread instead of one." "T know. Enny's patient C Cy. "Oh, Mother You're the Nicest mother in the whole Wide world." to her like Pain. "Get me the tape Measure, Pensleeping, to 7 woodwork and floors and sew the yards of gingham. Pleaded cts for geraniums. They brought the Plants home jn ttiump was Penny's P 'nna would be able to close her eyes younger children.. Abigail, helping Joanna knead the Page 269 270 raised dough into loaves, listened to Penny's clear, low voice. She shook her head. "Isn't she the beatinest! Just listen to her. I never heard a child read that good before." "Nothing but 'S's' on her report card," Joanna said proudly. "She's going to be somebody, just wait and see." "So is her mother," said Abigail smartly. "I never did see the likes of the way you've run up this