[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: singing, “Welcome best of all good]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 19th, 1895.
Counselor E. Stevenson presiding. Opened
by singing, “Welcome best of all good
meetings.” Prayer by Counselor E. Webb.
Continued by singing, “Come let us re-
joice in the day of Salvation.” Counselor
Stevenson read a note from President Horne
stating that she had a cold and could not
meet with us to day. Counselor E. Steven-
son said she was sorry that we had not our
Secretary present today. Sister L. D.
Alder was called upon to act in this capacity.
	Counselor Stevenson said, “I hope we
continue to meet even though we are few in
number. But we have more than two or
three here and I know we meet here in

[COLUMN 2]
“His name.” Since I last met with you
here I have been visiting the waste places of
Zion. Spoke of the dedication of a meet-
ing house in St. John’s, in Kansas. Visited
Independence, Mo., where is situated the
Temple block, called upon Mr. Hill, who
had lost even his home to save the Temple
block from the Josephites. These denom-
inations say we all belong to the same
church but we differ. The Temple lot
seems to be kept sacred, only a Hedrikite
Church on it. It has not been tilled since
the corner stone was laid. Visited Adam-
on-di-ahmon, the rock shows where fire has
been on it and there it stands through all
the ages. Spoke of Haun’s Mill, and the
seventeen lives that were sacrificed there.
	Then we went on to Nauvoo, I was
astonished to see a high church steeple
there, I thought of many things as I
walked its streets; viewed the spot where
the prophet stood and baptized for the dead
in the river. There is a grave stone on
Sister Emma’s grave,and Joseph’s children,
but no others. Visited Quincy, Keokuk
and many other places where the Saints
had resided. Also went to Elgin to visit
David Smith. I met Alexander and David
when they were here, when David was a
boy, he is fine looking, and gentlemanly in
his manners. He is much better but is not
recovered. He said he passed his time in
reading, and playing on the organ, he also
cultivated some flowers. He showed us
the flowers himself and showed us a bridge
which he had assisted in building, he gave
me a little rock out of this bridge. He was
so thankful for our call and visit. He sent
his kind regards to all his friends and rela-
tives in Zion.
	Sister B. W. Smith was pleased to hear
Sister Stevenson’s account of her trip. “It
has made me think of other days, and many
happy times I passed at the Prophet’s house.
I had my endowments with my husband,
when the prophet was living. Joseph said
many things which I remember yet. He
told us our Temple suits should be our
burial suits. I also was at the Relief
Society meeting when he told us he would
not be with us long. I wish the cloud
would pass off the mind of David. Sister
Stevenson has given me some of the flowers
David gave her, and has promised to send
me a piece of the stone where my husband
knelt when he was ordained one of the
Twelve Apostles. I pray the Lord to help
us to come to these meetings, also to do
better, and leave no stone unturned in do-
ing our duty.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde, said she was
pleased to be here, having been gone three
months. Spoke of the ship on which she
crossed the sea. Said the ministers and the
better class of people who do not want to
spend their money,but are going for instruc-
tion, go in second cabin. The motion was
not as much as on the railroad. So none need
fear being sea-sick. Then in the steerage
one can go for sixteen dollars, so none need
go without their records. Spoke of London,
over 5,600,000 in numbers. They told us
if we walked nine miles a day, it would
take ten years to go over London. Met
people who knew nothing of Mormonism.
All they had heard was that Brigham
Young had five hundred wives. The
Americans we met really seemed more
prejudiced than the foreigners. Spoke of
two of our young Elders. holding a meet-
ing in Regent Park, felt proud of their
preaching. Visited Scotland, to try to get
her mother’s genealogical records; des-

[COLUMN 3]
cribed the place,only 1 £. to stay and search
the records for one month. “Pray for the
Missionaries who are proclaiming the Gos-
pel, that the Lord may sustain them.”
	Sister Phelps, thought we should remem-
ber the missionaries. Desired to live hum-
ble and faithful,also said other good things.
	A Sister in the congregation said she left
London many years ago, and she came
here for the Gospel’s sake and knew it was
true.
	Sisters’sang, “Praise to the man,” &c.
	Sister J. C. Howe, said she did not feel
like speaking, but enjoyed listening to
Sisters Stevenson and Hyde. Bore
testimony that this was the work of God,
made other encouraging remarks, urging
the sisters to continue in diligence.
	Sister Silver, bore her testimony, and
spoke of some of her early days in London,
exhorted the sisters to live their religion.
	Closing remarks by Sister Stevenson.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang,
“We thank thee O, God for a Prophet.”
Benediction, Sister L. D. Alder.
			L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


