[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: THE NEW STATE. | Author: Unknown]

		THE NEW STATE.

	THE election is over and the votes are
being counted by the Utah Commission
and the positive results will soon be given
to the public; it is already well known
that there is a large majority for statehood,
and that means a large majority for equal
suffrage. This is a matter of rejoicing for
all women everywhere who have the ad-
vancement of the world of mankind at
heart. The third free state for which
another star will be placed in the woman's
flag, and the forty fifth star in the flag dear
to every patriot and recognized as the flag of
liberty throughout the world.
	It is a singular thing that the west, 
the intermountain states should lead in the mat-
ter of equal suffrage, which in itself means
progression, the East hangs back and
clings more closely to all old forms and
traditions, while the great broad magnifi-
cent West, reaches outward and upward for
larger growth, and greater enterprise, tak-
ing in the newer elements without fear of
disaster and conserving all the vitality by
new methods, to produce stronger and
wider breadth of conditions, for the benefit
and blessing of the great masses of people,
who must be considered, in society and in
government.
	It will be a great strength to the women
who have labored so long and so diligently
when they meet again in Convention at
Washington this coming winter to have the
satisfaction of knowing that Utah’s political
freedom is an established fact. The three
free states will be like a tower of strength to
the organization, and the women leaders
are wise and judicious and will make the best
use of the influence for further work in that
labor which is still in the future.
	The women of Utah should see to it now
that they act their part bravely and well.
always looking for the opportunity to do
good, or to work reform of that which is
evil, and never be hoodwinked by wily pol-
iticians into making promises that they will
afterwards repent or feel compelled to break.
There is still work to be done, there are
many things yet to learn, and help to be
given to those who have not been favored
with a knowledge of public affairs. There-
fore the study clubs upon civil government
are almost a necessity, and whether the
books recommended by the National As-
sociation, or some other works are used, it
is certain some course to inform all women
so far as possible should be considered by
women in all voting precincts. Without
any regard to party or party issues but in all

[Column 2]
seriousness these matters should be taken
under advisement. All women foreign
born who are not naturalized, should see to
taking out naturalization papers, that they
may be an actual factor in the new state.
	Utah will be in a great measure what its
women make it, as Napoleon once said,
“what France needs is mothers", and it is
a common saying, "Show me the women
of a nation and I will tell you what that
nation is." The women of Utah will have
advantages hereafter not previously enjoyed
(not even when she possessed the franchise
before) because conditions and circum-
stances are widely different. When wo-
men study politics they will not only
broaden their own minds, but the intellect
of the sons will be brighter, and their
characters stronger. When His Excellency
President Cleveland shall have affixed his
official signature to the new Constitu-
tion and issued the Proclamation, then all suf-
frage women should acknowledge the free-
dom accorded them in some demonstration,
that will be suitable to so grand an occasion.


[Column 1]
