	NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Indiana Lsgislature has passed a
bill providing for the State care of the
grave of Nancy Hanks Lincoln, the
mother of Abraham Lincoln.
	The Empress Eugenie at 81 still takes
a long walk every morning and still
entertains her friends at the end of every
week.
	Miss Helen McKinley, niece of the late
president, will unveil the statue at the
dedication of the McKinley Mausoleum,
September 30. But there will not be a
woman among the speakers, although Mc-
Kinley was a suffragist.
	Nowadays even women of title engage
in trade. The Duchess of Sutherland,
when she visited Russia, packed her
trunk with samples of highland tweed,
and used them to drum up a market for
the goods, from which she has been called
the ‘‘drummer duchess.”
	A new woman’s paper has been started
in St. Petersburg, called “The Woman’s
Union.” It is published by the Russian
Union of Defender’s of Woman’s Rights,
and is edited by its secretary, Mrs. Tche-
koff. The new periodical is welcomed by
the progressive papers of Russia.
	The call is issued for the Annual Exec-
utive Session of the National Council of
Women of the United States, which will
be held in the Woman’s Building, James-
town Exposition, October 1-5. The local
arrangements are under charge of Mrs.
Kate Waller Barrett. vice-president-at-
large, who is spending the season at the
Exposition in charge of the Headquarters
at the National Council.

[Column 2]
Mrs. Laura E. Cook, 55 years old, has
built herself a house with her own hands.
Sixteen months ago she bought a lot for
$1,000 on a bleak hillside in Elmdale,
Cal. She has transformed it into a scene
of beauty with a terraced garden, flowers
and shrubbery. She planned the house,
laid the foundations. built the retaining
wall, sawed and fitted the lumber, erect-
ed the chimney and put on the shingles.
The place shows excellent workmanship,
and she has been offered $5,000 for it, but
will not sell.
	Ann Shreeve, who lately died in Eng-
land at the age of 89, had been 51 years
to a day in the service of the Countess of
Swhrewsbury. The obituary announce-
ment said she had been for 51 years the
“friend and faithful servant of the Dow-
ager Countess of Shrewsbury.” Lady
Shrewsbury seems to have had no trouble
in keeping her servants. A maid who
entered her service when the countess
was a girl of fourteen stayed with her till
the infirmities of old age forced her to
rest. Her cook also has spent a lifetime
in her service.
	Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, the earliest
woman physician, now eighty-six and a
half years old, was taking a pleasure trip
through Scotland this summer with her
adopted daughter, when she met with a
bad fall down a flight of stairs and was
found insensible at the bottom. Such an
accident was likely to leave serious con-
sequences for a woman of her age, and
her friends at once sent for a trained
nurse. But Dr. Blackwell, who had
luckily broken no bones, scouted the aid
of the nurse, emphatically refused to be
“made an invalid of,” and on the second
day came down to meals as usual. She
has since returned to her home at Hast-
ings, England.
	Mrs. Sheldon Leavitt, the wife of one
of Chicago’s most noted physicians, has
started a circulating art gallery for the
hospital patients of that city. She has
made a large collection of paintings, and
these, through a central agency, will be
moved from hospital to hospital for the
enjoyment of the needy sick. “I have
grown tired of the aimless round of soci-
ety,” Mrs. Leavitt is reported as saying,
“and have withdrawn, to devote the rest
of my life to work that will improve the
lot of the sick poor. I thought a good
start might be made through having them
see beautiful pictures. Pictures do so
much for the sick room and for a despon-
dent invalid.” 
	Mrs. Thomas F. Ryan, wife of the
noted financier, has received the title of
Countess from Pope Pius X, in recogni-
tion of her numerous benefactions. With
unlimited means at her command, she is
said to give away a million dollars a year
in a practical and systematic manner,
maintaining an office and a corps of
clerks, who attend to the details of dis-
tribution. She has built one cathedral,
five churches, numerous chapels, and two

[Column 3]
hospitals, endowed rooms in several hos-
pitals, erected monuments to mark all of
Virginia’s battlefields, founded thirteen
scholarships for boys and scholarships for
poor girls at sixteen colleges, and has given
generously to many other religious, educa-
tional and charitable institutions. Ex.


