		HENRY W. NAISBITT.

	How fitting that the author should
make “Mother” the last tracings of his
pen, or at least the last expression of his
poetic thought; Coming into the Infor-
mation Bureau a few days ago, where
long he had been a faithful and intelli-
gent worker, Brother Naisbitt gave a
printed copy of “Mother” to the writer
with the words, “The last I expect to
write this side of the Great Beyond.”
“Oh, not the last,” I cried, hoping to
discourage such depressing forebodings.
Then we talked of England, where I had
labored when he was one of the presid-
ency with President Platt D. Lyman.
As missionaries, we had traveled fn Scot-
land and Ireland, as well as in England.
On the same soul-inspiring scenes we had
gazed; together read out of Nature’s book
and talked of the works of God. Vividly
comes to mind the wonderful Giant’s
Causeway in Ireland, which we visited
with President Lyman and the Elders of
the Irish conference. Climbing up, be-
hind the rest, Brother Naisbitt and my-
self talked of these unexplained phases
of Nature and her beauties there re-
vealed. While surveying the Causeway,
mountain and sea, he said, “Sister Alder,
how will it be when we have no more
sea, when the waters shall be gathered
together as at first?” Looking on the
sea’s glistening, heaving expanse, I said,
perhaps with sadness, “I have not
thought of it. I have not thought of it.”
	Now perusing the poem, “Mother,”
how forcibly the thought impresses one,
that as the infant ever turns to the moth-
er for comfort, Sustenance and life, so in
the weakness of age, the soul instinct-
ively cries for “mother,” Her smiles,
her eyes of solicitude, a vision of her as
she was in days gone by, fires the heart
and mind.
	“My sainted, sinless mother,” I see
the sightless eyes now. as the author of
“Mother” turned them upon me, “True
and steadfast, always right.” Did way-
ward childhood think her always right?
Did not little restraints seem like huge
chords; her chiding irksome; her counsel
unrequited? No matter! 	Behold the
babe of years, tottering on the verge of
the grave, thinks she was “always right.”
Unconscious, perhaps, he has been, that
her dear, guiding hand has held his
through life, smoothed the rough places,
shunned the pitfalls through dark ravines
or on barren road. He may have felt
forsaken or alone on mountain top, where
icy breezes blow; but even there he nat-
urally in thought has turned to mother to
kiss the aching fingers and warm them
with her own.
	Oh, dear mother, ’tis your love that
makes your children whole; relieves aches
and pains; brings peace and consolation.
In the valley’s warmth and sunshine, the
glad, pulsing heart, full of exultation,
sometimes even then our thoughts turn to
mother. Not for comfort now, but a
benediction—a sharer in our joy. 	How
oft we find ourselves thinking of her—

[Column 2]
some trivial, every-day incident will
bring her vividly to mind! Ever beauti-
ful to us is our mother; none to us so
dear.

	The counsel given in earlier years
	Now we seek with falling tears.

“My hair is whitening now, like hers!”

	Now we can understand
	Why close she held our hand,
	The lovelight in her eyes—
	Faint glimpse of Paradise—
	Would shield from every snare;
	Will for us ever care,
	While we roam far from home;

	“I’ve longed to hear you sing ‘Redeem-
ing Love’—the song the angels sing.’’
Oh, may it be, that on that bed of pain,
the world now lost to sight, and faded 
earthly things away, he hears that glad
refrain. Not now life’s proud positions
come to mind; the brilliance felt not now
of song or pen; allurements that trip us
over; the clamorings of ambition — all
seem of no avail; but, mother who long
ago journeyed to an unknown shore, she
is his thought, his love.

	With trembling limbs and sightless eyes,
	He turns a child again.

	So as a little child, shall we see the
kingdom of heaven; as a little child
shall we enter in.
