AN OBJECT LESSON.
	Philadelphia, when the schools opened
this fall turned away 5000 children entire-
ly, for lack of seats, and put 15,000 on
half time—an injustice both to the chil-
dren, who get only half the schooling
they ought, and to the teachers who have
the double fatigue of teaching everything
twice over, to two relays of pupils.
	The schools fall short by 20,000 seats
of being able to accommodate the chil-
dren who actually apply. If the compul-
sory education law were carried out the
shortage would be much greater.
	And what sort of accommodation do
those children who succeed in getting into
the schools. In his report last June to
the Board of Education the new Superin-
dent of Schools, Dr. Martin G. Brum-
baugh said:
	"It is a fact that the children are sitting
on broken benches, that they are sitting
on boards in the aisles between benches,
that they are sitting on boxes, that they
are sitting on window sills and that in
some cases they are actually sitting on
the floor, in the schools in Philadelphia.
All of these conditions I have personally
and with great distress to myself, been
obliged in the last four months to witness.
We are prepared at any time to lay before
you a list of schools which have furni-
ture which any fair-minded individual
would pronounce unfit for the use of the
children. Speaking well within the facts
it is safe to say that there are at least
$25,000 such desks in the schools of Phila-
delphia."
	Yet Philadelphia has money enough to
spend on luxuries. Only two months ago
the city fathers voted $50,000 of pub-
lic funds to entertain the Benevolent
and Protective Order of Elks and then
gave $10,600 more to make merry with
the Patriotic Order of the Sons of
America. A large part of the $60,000
came out of women's tax money. If the
city mothers had had any voice in the
spending of it, they would have provided
seats and desks for the schools before
launching out into lavish and needless
entertaining.
	Philadelphia is one of the richest cities
in the world. She squanders millions
on graft, and scrimps on the children's
education. Most of our big cities do
the same.
	Are women's wishes "represented"
in the way their tax money is spent?
		A. S. B. in Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.				 —TRY US

[Column 2]
	RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	The several stakes of Zion are hereby
notified that the Relief Society Nurse
Class for this year will begin in Septem-
ber at the first session of the L. D. S.
University.
	The important work is under the aus-
pices of the general Board of the Relief
Society, who desire the earnest co-opera-
tion of all ward and stake presidents.
			ELLIS R. SHIPP. M. D.,
						Instructor.


