		WASATCH STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Wasatch
Stake was held on Sunday, June 16, 1907,
in the Stake tabernacle, Heber, President
Annie R. Duke presiding. After opening
exercises, a welcome address was given
by Sister Lovisa Alexander, she was
pleased to see so many present and was
thankful for the beautiful sunshine and
for all the many blessings received. She
knew this was a glorious work.
	The reports that were given show that
the 9 wards in the Stake are in a flourish-
ing condition, the sisters are trying to do
all the good they can. The attendance
in some of the wards is not what it should
be.
	Sisters Elizabeth Wilcox and Dr. Ellis
R, Shipp of the general board were pres-
ent at the morning session, but returned
home in the afternoon. Sister Wilcox
was pleased to hear the reports that were
given. She spoke about mothers attend-
ing to their meetings but not to neglect
her children to do so. The greatest ob-
ject of a mother’s life is to take care of
her children.
	The object of the Relief Society when
first organized was to relieve the poor
and help the sick, and it is also for the
saving of souls. The sisters should
become acquainted with the principles of
the Gospel. If we do not do some good
each day we are not doing our duty. We
should ask in humility every day for the
Lord to help us. She knew the mother’s
work was a grand work and was growing
rapidly. She urged the necessity of train-
ing nurses, that the mothers and little
ones might have the proper care. She
commented on the work of teachers, felt
that they were the backbone of the soci-
ety. “Mothers should know where their
children are at night. Provide the prop-
er kind of amusement and make home
pleasant and attractive that they will love
to stay at home.”
	Paper, “True object of the Relief So-
ciety Work, by Amelia Cluff. Song by
Brother Roberts and company.


[Column 1]
	Sister Shipp thought if we could put
into practice the good things we have
heard we have sufficient said. She said
she brings the greetings of Sister Smith,
who is interested in you. Made mention
of the opportunities the Latter-day Saints
have and what an honored people they
are. “Can there be a truer mission than
a wife and a mother? She needs knowl-
edge all that she can obtain to make her
a better woman. She can teach her in-
fant obedience. Control your home by
love, it will do more good than anything
else. Mothers must be cheerful and agree-
able under all circumstances. Teach
children to be prayerful and honor the
Priesthood.”
	President Joseph R. Murdock endorsed
all that had been said. He would like to
see every good woman in this Stake of
Zion enrolled in the Relief Society, that
was the place for them. He knew the
sisters were doing a good work. Urged
the sisters to subscribe for the Exponent.
	In the afternoon session General Presi-
dent B. W. Smith’s address was read by
Sister Margaret Murdock. Recitation,
Millie Montgomery.
	Remarks by Sister Ann Murdock one
of the first members of the Relief Society
in this Stake of Zion.
	Elders E. D. Clyde, and James C. Jen-
sen of the Presidency spoke a short time.
William Young, a returned missionary
from New Zealand spoke a few minutes
and also sang a song.
				Stake Secretary.

