		WOODRUFF.
	Minutes of Woodruff Stake Relief
Society Conference held at Lyman, June
15, 1907, Stake President Sarah Tyson
presiding. From the general board Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth and visiting sister,
Lydia Morris, of Salt Lake City, were
present. After the usual opening exer-
cises Stake President Tyson made a few
opening remarks, she was pleased to see
so many young sisters present, and ex-
horted all to attend to their Relief Society
duties.
	Counselor Ellen Anderson of Lyman
reported their society in good condition.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of the
noble pioneers, read from the Exponent
President Bathsheba W. Smith’s greeting
to the sisters. Also spoke of the San
Francisco disaster, and of what the Re-
lief Society had done for them. Said we
were growing in intelligence, and we
should endeavor to cultivate our talents.
Spoke of the poor and of the annual do-
nation and by doing those things we were
fulfilling our duties. Referred to the
lectures of the mothers’ work, wished the
young sisters especially to take interest in
them.
	Sister Ida Hamblin sang “Guide me to
Thee.”
	Sister Morris expressed her willingness
to do what she could for the Relief Soci-
ety, thought there was so much we could
do in that direction.
	Brother George Eyer spoke of the lab-
ors of the sisters in the Relief Society
and what a grand organization it was,
closed by invoking the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Counselor H. Telford thought the
mothers’ work was a great help to us,
spoke of the necessity of storing grain,
said it was a commandment from the ser-

[Column 2]
vants of the Lord. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. with singing and benedic-
tion.
	Afternoon session of the Relief Society,
presided over by Stake President
Tyson. After opening exercises, Moun-
tain View Relief Society was reported by
President Graham: Randolph by Presi-
dent Celia Spencer in good condition and
fully organized; Cumberland was re-
ported doing fairly well.
	Solo sung by Ada Rollins.
	The general and Stake officers were
presented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of the
woman’s building and of the storing of
grain, said we should not care what the
people of the world say, so that we are
keeping the commandments of God.
Wondered if the mothers realized the
positions they occupy in raising children,
there is nothing that should interest us
more than the care of our children, they
are our jewels which God gives to us. Ad-
vised us to visit the sick and not be
boastful. We should endeavor to grow
better and wiser every day so that we
may be prepared to go back to our Father
in heaven and receive our reward.
	A musical selection by the Osborn
sisters was rendered. Sister Morris, mis-
sionary, thought it was a great thing to be
called to this work. God is merciful and
overlooks a great many of our faults. He
knows our desires and will bless us ac-
cordingly. Said we should not be dis-
contented with our homes, for the Lord
had work for us to do here He will rule
the elements for our sake.
	Bishop Graham of Mountain View made
a few remarks. Bishop S. Brough thought
that the Spirit of the Lord had been with
us, felt well and gave us good instruction.
	Solo sung by Minna Marshall.
	President Tyson felt to rejoice for we
have had a good time, we should have
the Spirit of humility, and faith, and
“Count our many blessings,” should visit
those in distress and honor the aged,
cease finding fault with each other, culti-
vate the spirit of prayer.
	Closed by singing and benediction.
		KATIE H. EPPICH, Stake Sec.

				NEBO.
	The quarterly conference of the Nebo
Stake Relief Society was held at Payson,
July 19, 1907, President Eliza J. Dixon
presiding. After the opening exercises,
Sister Dixon welcomed the people to our
conference and was proud to have sisters
from the general board with us; gave a
brief report of the Relief Society work.
Nebo Stake owns 8 halls and 9 granaries
with 1095 bushels of wheat. Our object
is to have our children grow up to be
good Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Ann Nebeker recited Peti Pat
and Tipe Toe. Lesson on parents class
work given by Sister Edna Brockbank,
subject, habit; she also read a poem,
“Hanging Pictures on Memory’s Walls.”
	Song, Sisters Quigley and Daniels,
“The Old Homestead.”
	Sister Hattie B. Harker, missionary
from the general board spoke on the
cares of mothers, both in the family and
outside, in helping others by older sisters
giving their experience to the younger
sisters in raising their families. “We are
all working for the one great cause. We
benefit ourselves as we benefit others, it
is better to give than to receive, and

[Column 3]
blessed is he that giveth, my father
taught that if I administered to the wants
of the aged, that the Lord would take
care of me in old age.” She also spoke
of inspiring others to do their duty.
	Morning session closed with singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session. President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. After singing and
prayer Sister Annie Wells Cannon of the
General Board spoke for some time.
Prayed for the Spirit of the Lord to be
with us all; said President Bathsheba W.
Smith sends her love to the sisters of the
Relief Society, as she is not able to visit
them personally on account of her many
duties and Temple work, but her love and
interest are still with the sisters who are
engaged in this work. “I feel this after-
noon that the Spirit of the Lord is with
us, those that are working for the Master
are making for themselves a heaven.”
Sister Cannon talked of the mother’s
work, we are proud of our Relief Society,
and above all, sisters, be proud of moth-
erhood, the happiest time in our lives is
when our children are small, then is
when we can teach them. Don’t let
them say anything against the Priest-
hood. Tell them good stories. She also
spoke of the moral condition of the young,
advised the Relief Society to take up a
work with the young, uplift and better their
moral and spiritual condition. Advised
mothers not to send their daughters to
Salt Lake to work on account of the evil
influences they are liable to come in con-
tact with, said that there was a commit-
tee of sisters to get good homes for those
who do come to Salt Lake to work; spoke
of our girls going to other towns and set-
tlements to parties and riding home late,
felt it was imprudent. Relief Society
teachers should be the very best women
in the wards, and pray for the Lord to
guide them in their labors, and live just
as near like the Master as possible.
We need the young women and the
young women need the Relief Society.
Sister Cannon spoke of storing grain
against a day of famine, felt that when we
lend our wheat we should have good se-
curity. Advised us to read the Testament
every day, especially when we are dis-
couraged. She mentioned especially the
Savior and His prayer while He was in
the garden of Gethsemane, and of His
forgiving spirit.
	Sister H. B. Harker also spoke on the
Garden of Gethsemane, and felt, we
should understand the Gospel ourselves
and then we can teach it to our children.
We should teach our sons as well as our
daughters morality, and if we don’t have
much of this world’s goods have their
hearts pure. Spoke of the nurses class
as a noble work for our sisters in Zion
and that the nurses’s class would com-
mence in September. Dr. Shipp to con-
duct the work. Spoke of the Woman’s
Exponent and advised the sisters to sub-
scribe for that valuable paper.
	Brother Swenson, a member of the
High Priests quorum, spoke a short time.
Said try all we could to have all our sis-
ters enrolled in the Relief Society. Our
whole souls should be for the welfare of
ourselves and our brothers and sisters.
	Song by Sister Ivy Done, entitled “I
need Thee every hour.”
	Brother Beddoes another member of
the High Priests quorum addressed the
conference, said that the Lord would fit


and qualify us to fulfill out duty and gave 
some very good instructions. 
	General and Stake officers of the Relief 
Society presented and sustained unani-
mously. 
	President Lemmons said that the Gos-
pel should be taught at home, said that 
there was no organization in the Church 
that was more help to the Bishopric than 
the Relief Society. 
	Sister Dixon announced that our next 
conference will be held in the Tintic dis-
trict Sep. 21, thanked the sisters and all 
who had taken part in helping to make 
the conference a success. Closed by 
singing doxology, and benediction.
				Eliza A. Hawkins,
						Cor. Sec.


