OBITUARY. 
	In memory of Sister Mary A. Packer, who de-
parted this life February 19, 1907. 
	Sister Packer was a willing and faithful worker, 
a ministering angel to the sick, and a true Latter-
day Saint. She has filled many positions of honor 
and trust in the Layton ward. She was president 
of the Yonng Ladies’ Association for a number 
of years, also a teacher in the Sunday School. At 
the time of her death she was a counselor in the 
Relief Society. 
	We feel that we have lost a wise counselor and 
a true friend; but our loss is her eternal gain. 
We hope to meet her again where pain and sorrow 
are unknown.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, by the sisters of the Layton Ward 
Relief Society, that we mourn the loss and appre-
ciate the purity of her life. 
	That we extend to the bereaved family our sin-
cere sympathy, and pray God that His comforting 
influence may be with them; for there is joy and 
comfort in the knowledge that Sister Packer is en-
titled to all the blessings promised to the faithful. 
Resolved, that a copy of these resoltuions be 
presented to the family, and a copy placed on tha 
records of the Relief Society of Layton, Arizona, 
and a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent.
(Signed)			Alice K. Beebe, President.
				Mamie Freeson, Secretary.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS. 
		BEAR LAKE. 
	Minutes of the Bear Lake Relief Socie-
ty Conference which was held in the Tab-
ernacle at Paris, August 18th, 1907, with a 
very good attendance.
	Officers’ meeting, 10 a.m. 
	President Julia P. Lindsay presiding. 
She said there were a great many who 
neglected their duties, but she knew our 
Father in heaven would wake them up to 
their line of duty. Spoke of how well 
she felt about our paper, the valuable 
EXPONENT for women, and we should 
support it better than we do. We have 
Sister Grant with us, also Sister Shipp. 
Felt well in having some of the Stake 
Presidency present to back them. It has 
been said by way of encouragement that 
the Relief Society is the most interesting, 
thrifty and independent auxiliary organi-
zation in the Church. She believed the 
Latter-day Saints to be the best people 
on earth, although the people of the 
world are so beautifully dressed and re-
fined in manners, she would not for any-
thing in the world, change with them; 
we have the gospel and the spirit of revel-
ation. How we are blessed, we should al-
ways give with a charitable feeling, then 
the ones that receive would rejoice and 
be happy indeed; but remember we are 
all getting old, should not be harsh. The
Teacher’s duties are very great; always 
carry a smile. The money you collect 
is nothing in comparison to the comfort 
you may be; you can all do some good, 
when in the line of duty. May the Lord 
bless us all. 
	Sister Susan Grant was pleased to hear 
the instructions to teachers, and would 
have been very much pleased to have 
seen more present; very much pleased 
to konw you  have grain  and places to 
keep it. It is very gratifying to have 
house and lot of your own in which to 
meet. Should keep good records; and 
those that have not granaries should hur-
ry and get them and store wheat; should
also be punctual at your meetings. The 
Prophet Joseph Smith said that every 
virtuous woman should have her name 
enrolled, because from the books we shall 
be judged. Was pleased to hear the EX-

[Column 2]
PONENT spoken of, and wish every Sister 
would take that paper and sustain it bet-
ter, Sister Emmeline B. Wells is such 
a busy woman and still attends to our 
valuable paper, and she does so very much 
other work that we very often wonder 
how she can accomplish so much. May 
we be faithful in our mission and strive 
to do what is right. 
	President W. Rich was pleased to meet 
with us in officers’ meeting. Thought 
we got more substance out of these meet-
ing. We should sustain our paper. It 
softens the heart of a Sister when she is 
helping any one. Have been interested in 
meeting with you. Let us be strong and 
steadfast in our efforts to do good. 

	Eight annual conferences of the Relief 
Society of this stake have been held in 
the Tabernacle of Paris. 
		Sunday, August 18th, 1907, 2 p.m. 
	After the choir and congregation sang, 
prayer was offered and singing. 
	The Sacrament was administered, and 
while it was being dispensed, the sweetest 
music was rendered by the choir. 
	President Lindsay said, There is a spirit 
of love and union among our sisters of 
this stake, but some are careless in at-
tending our meetings. Prayed God to 
bless the sisters who are with us that 
they may say something that will help us 
in our work. 
	Sister Grant said she did not feel timid 
in speaking in the presence of our breth-
ren as she once did; she came to instruct 
the sisters; knew that President Lindsay 
had the love and respect of the sisters; 
and when the time comes for her release of 
life, will feel a satisfaction in knowing 
she has done her duty. It is our duty to 
help the Priesthood whenever they need 
help, in addition to the labor of caring 
for the sick and the poor. The speaker 
dwelt at some length on the importance 
of implanting faith in the hearts of our 
children; should teach them while very 
young to pray to our heavenly Father; 
we should teach by example. She en-
joyed the love and confidence of her 
brothers and sisters more than anything 
else. Did not come with any new doc-
trine, but to remind us of our duties, for 
we are all forgetful. She was one of the 
few who knew the Prophet Joseph and 
Patriarch Hyrum; was twelve years old 
when they were martyred. The Prophet 
was a superior-looking man; there are 
none of his pictures that do him justice. 
We are always blessed in blessing others. 
Prayed God to bless all who are engaged 
in this noble work. 
	Sister Shipp said: With the great res-
ponsibility resting upon me, I feel timid; 
we are here to fill a sacred mission; we 
should make our homes all they should 
be and beautify them; woman’s mission
is to make others happy; husband and 
wife should work together and help each 
other in their labors with the children. 
In her early life, had a happy home; nev-
er heard her father and mother speak a 
cross word to each other. Spoke of the 
sacredness of the marriage covenant and 
of the seriousness of divorces. Spoke of 
the faithfulness of President Lindsay 
who is now eighty-four years of age, and 
the joy she feels in laboring; she does 
not wait to be waited upon for work is 
what brings joy to the soul. Clean homes 
and beds, good nourishing food and a smile


and a kiss for the children are what is 
needed. We have more old people 
among us than they have among other 
peoples; we can attribute this to the 
keeping of the Word of Wisdom; related
instances showing that those who refrain 
from stimulants are the strongest and the 
brightest men and women. My heart 
is full of love for the brethren and sisters. 
President Lindsay reminded the sisters 
of erecting granaries for storing wheat, 
also suggested that each association fur-
nish the means for their president to at-
attend conference. 
President Richards spoke of the impor-
tance of the teachers, that their great 
object is not only to gather means but 
to teach  and expound the principles of 
the gospel to cheer the Saints. Prayed 
God to help all who are engaged in this 
great organization as many are not yet 
converted to this great work and do not 
know what is being done by the sisters. 
Choir sang—“Sweet is the work, my 
God, my King."
	Closing prayer by Counselor Mary 
Bagely. 
LOUISE TUELLER, 
Cor. Sec.


