SKETCH OF QUEEN OF AMERICAN STAGE.

	The following extracts are from one of
a series of aticles on “Players: Past and
Present,” which appeared about a year
ago from the pen of the veteran dram-
atic critic, William Winter:
	The stage life of Mary Anderson was
comparatively brief (1875-1889), but it was
brilliant with achievement, and, in its hon-
esty, sincerity,  simplicity, radical worth
and beneficent influence, it was beautiful.
It was not all tranquility; it had its clouds
of care—“the very source and fount of
day,” as the poet Tennyson has told us,
is “dashed with wandering isles of night”
—but it was right in motive, it was free
from contention, it was devoid of reproach,
it was guided and governed by a noble
ambition, and its results were good.
	She made her first appearance on the
stage, when she was only sixteen years
old, at Barney Macauley’s Theater, in
Louisville, Kentucky, November 25, 1875.
	She came out as Juliet, and one who
was present declares that, notwithstand-
ing the crudity inseparable from youth
and inexperience, it was a performance
of extraordinary force, feeling and prom-
ise. Its paramount beauty, was its vocal-
ism. Miss Anderson’s voice, indeed, was
always her predominant charm: certain
tones in it—so thrilling, so full of wild
passion and inexpressible melancholy—
went straight to the heart, and brought
tears into the eyes. The voice is the ex-
ponent of the soul. You can paint your


[Column 1]
face; you can pad your person; you can
wear a wig; you can walk in shoes that
augment your height; you can, in various
ways, change your body; but your voice
will, sooner or later, reveal you as you
are. It seems unlikely that Miss Ander-
son’s melting, tragic tones were uttered
in any of her girlish impartments; but the
copious, lovely voice was there, and it
gained her first yictory. The time had
not yet come when she could, actually
and absolutely, embody Juliet. It did
come, and her success in that part was
decisive and unequivocal. The most ro-
mantic and the most passionate Juliet of
our epoch was that of Adelaide Neilson;
the most essentially womanlike and splen-
didly tragical Juliet that our stage has
known within the last fifty years was that
of Mary Anderson.
	Mary Anderson, on the stage, had to
make her way from comparative obscu-
rity, and at the first, contrary to common
belief, her pathway was not one of roses.
Artistically, however, she began “at the
top”—where, as Daniel Webster said,
there is always plenty of room. Genius
and beauty can, sometimes, so begin,
wisely and to advantage; but, in general,
that course is not judicious. The begin-
ner, in this case, acted on the advice of
Charlotte Cushman, who perceived her
natural endowments, and must have dis-
cerned in her an exceptional fitness for
the dramatic profession. Just as Burns
was born to write poety, Mary Anderson
was born to act. That fact the veteran
actress divined; and though firm in the
faith that, as she expressed it, “the art of
sailing a ship cannot be learned by enter-
ing at the cabin window,” she knew that
there are exceptions to all rules. The
origin of genius has not been ascertained.
It happens—and that is all we know
about it.
	The antecedents of Mary Anderson af-
ford no explanation of her proclivity for
the stage.
	She was born in the Eagle Hotel,
Sacramento, California, July 28, 1859.
Her father, Charles H. Anderson, was a
young Englishman who had come to
America to seek his fortune. He served
as an officer in the Confederate Army;
and died early in the Civil War. His
grave is in Magnolia Cemetery, at Mobile,
Alabama. Her mother, Antonia Leugers,
of Philadelphia, was a beautiful woman,
of German descent, and of rigorous Cath-
olic principles. Neither of her parents
was theatrical. Her mother, after some
time of widowhood, married Dr. Hamil-
ton Griffin, of Louisville, Kentucky, where,
for a time, Miss Anderson was an inmate
of a Roman Catholic convent school. She
was reared in the Catholic faith, by Fath-
er Anthony Miller, a Franciscan priest,
her mother’s uncle—a man of extensive
learning and exalted character. She left
school before she was fourteen years of
age. As a child she had seen some of the
performances of Edwin Booth, which had
touched her heart and fired her fancy. To
such a degree, indeed, was she influenced
by Booth’s acting that she learned some
of the parts she had seen him perform —
Hamlet, Richelieu, Wolsey and Richard
III—and acted them in private; and also
she learned and acted Schiller’s Joan of
Arc.  Her resolute purpose to become an
actress (for, even in girlhood, she mani-
fested exceptional strength of will) pre-
vailed over the scruples of most of her

[Column 2]
pious relatives. Doctor Griffin, her step-
father, speaking of that period in her ex-
perience, said that her insistence was irre-
sistible, and that, at last, he was con-
strained to go with her to the principal
theater of Louisville and ask for a trial
of her talents. Then came her perform-
ance of Juliet. The verdict was favor-
able, and the manager, Macauley—special-
ly incited thereto by an approving word
from the tragedian John McCullough—
gave to her a regular engagement, begin-
ning January 20, 1876, from which time
until the season of 1888-89 she was in con-
tinual practice of her profession.
	She first appeared in New York in 1877,
at the Fifth Avenue Theater, and there-
after she made annual tours of the coun-
try and so laid the foundation of a bril-
liant renown. Her professional ventures
in England ensued and she became a
favorite abroad as well as at home. Her
acting was seen with delight in Scotland
and Ireland, as well as in the provincial
cities of England.
	On June 17, 1890, she was married to
Mr. Antonio de Novarro, and since then
she has dwelt in retirement, only occasion-
ally emerging to read and to sing for the
benefit of the poor of London. Her home
is at Broadway, Worcestershire, England;
and her friends are glad to know that she
is—as she deserves to be—one of the hap-
piest women in the world.
	Fortunate in her choice of a career and
fortunate in her management of it, Mary
Anderson was especially fortunate in her
retirement from public life at a time when
her renown was at its height. To the
stage, and to society—so continuously and
deeply affected by the stage—her with-
drawal was not simply a deprivation, it
was a bereavement; for it greatly reduced
the public store of innocent pleasure,
and it greatly weakened the inspiring and
ennobling influence of the acted drama.
But her exertions had been great and
continuous; as an heroic actress, she had
reached the zenith of achievement; her
health required relief from care; and she
left the scene before the lights had begun
to darken and while yet a time remained 
for the enjoyment of that life of the af-
fections which is the chief blessing of our
mortal state. She did not take a formal
farewell of the theater. Her last appear-
ance occurred at Washington, in the
spring of 1889, and the last part that she
acted was Hermione.
	It is a sign of Mary Anderson’s nobility
that she attracted, and always kept, the
esteem and affectionate regard of such
noble natures as Edwin Booth, John Mc-
Cullough, Lawrence Barrett and Joseph
Jefferson, among actors and of Longfel-
low, Tennyson, Lord Lytton and Aubrey
de Vere, among poets. With Longfellow
she was a special favorite, and she de-
rived lasting benefit from his friendship
and his counsel. No person, indeed, ever
came near that exalted, benignant, gentle
spirit without reason for special gratitude.
Longfellow was the most authentic, com-
prehensive, sympathetic and important
of the poets of America. His works, while
expressing the better spirit of our country,
are a voice of human nature and a com-
fort to human hearts: and they possess
that perfection of form without which
poetic expression is incomplete and in-
effective. As a man he was the incarna-
tion of charity, generosity, sweetness and
grace; a man whom to know was to rev-

[Column 3]
erence, and the remembrance of whose
character and example is a continual im-
pulse to virtue. Nothing could better in-
dicate the essential benignity of Longfel-
low’s disposition than the remark he once
made to Miss Anderson: “Never lose an
opportunity of giving pleasure; it will
make you happier and better.”
	Words are unavailing to reproduce the
feeling that Mary Anderson’s acting in-
spired, when, at last, in the prime of her
development, she had attained to her full
intellectual and spiritual stature, and to
the full control of her extraordinary gifts.
Fair; tall; of an imperial figure; her fea-
tures regular; her changeful blue eyes,
placid as a summer lake or blazing with
the fire of roused imagination; her noble
head, enwreathed with its copious wealth
of golden hair; her smile, the diamond
sparkle of morning light; her gestures,
large, wide, graceful, free; her movement,
at times electrical with action, at times
pathetically eloquent of slow, wandering
grief or the stupor of despair; her voice,
clear, smooth, silvery, ranging through
many moods, from the ripple of arch,
bewitching mirth to the low moan of
anguish, the deep whisper of passion or
the clarion note of power—she filled the
scene with her presence, and she filled the
hearts of her audience with a refreshing
sense of delightful, ennobling conviction
of the possible loveliness and majesty of
the human soul. I think that this was the
sum of her service to art and to society.
Many pages might be written about elec-
trical points in her personations of charac-
ter—her denotement of Juliet’s desolation,
after parting, in the lonely midnight, from
the last human being whom she may ever
behold; her revelation of Hermione’s aw-
ful despair, when she covers her face with
her mantle, and falls in deathlike trance;
her simplicity and piquant archness when
giving the flowers, as Perdita, contrasted
with her soul-subduing agony in Bianca’s
supplication to her stony-hearted, exul-
tant, scornful rival; but that would require
the wide domain of an essay, and this is
but a glimpse. The decisive fact suffices
that this actress was one of the authentic
messengers of Heaven who shed a light on
this world and, in the hearts of its weary
workers, rekindled the sacred fires of hope
and trust.


