SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		SEPTEMBER, 1907


[Column 1]
PATRIOTISM AND SUFFRAGE.
	That the Latter-day Saints love their
country goes without saying. But it is
necessary to do something to prove one’s
love. To be sure the boys from Utah
and adjoining states and territories have
gone freely and in some instances gladly
and proudly to the battle if necessary;
like others some have been wounded and 
some have died, and the mothers have
been brave and heroic in giving their sons
to their country’s service even though
their hearts ached at the separation.
	And there are other ways and means
by which women as well as men can prove
their loyalty and without such great sac-
rifice as war demands. Women can help
maintain good government, can assist in
the cause of good citizenship, and it is a
duty as well as a privilege to prepare sons
and daughters to take part in good gov-
ernment. Especially is it essential when
women have equal suffrage as we have in
Utah, Wyoming, Colorado and Idaho,
that they should take advantage of their
opportunities and be active in promoting
good laws, measures and regulations.
This is a valuable use to put one’s ener-
gies to. There is need of woman’s help
and men are not slow to take advantage
of the ballot when they become candi-
dates for election to any office. Very
often women are not vigilant enough to
make themselves acquainted with what is
coming, and their opinion of candidates
and perchance their vote before they are
properly informed concerning the man
or the duty itself.
	By and by election day comes and a
carriage calls for the ladies, and they are
busy with home duties and hurry off with-
out being quite sure how they should vote
if time was given them to consider the
matter. This should not be the case
with any woman with good natural abili-
ty and common sense. Men may be in
precisely the same situation, but usually
men talk about these things, and do make
up their minds and unless over persuaded
generally vote as they mean to.
	Women do not give sufficient attention
to these important matters in many in-
stances. Another phase of the subject is
that women are afraid of the primaries.
And that is where men, and frequently
bad men, go to the primaries in force and
make up a slate and stay there and slide
it through, sending designing, intriguing,
bad men to the conventions, and conse-
quently they put their own kind up to be

[Column 2]
voted for if possible, or mix the names so
that they will get in some of their own
kind.
	The women of Colorado have been in
the past very careful to attend the pri-
maries, but many women are careless in
this respect.
	The writer is well aware that it is not
always a desirable place to go, but if the
women turned out in force they could
soon change the atmosphere of the pri-
maries.
	This year primaries have been held and
delegates for the convention nominated,
etc., etc., but there still remains the vot-
ing for the city officers to be elected in 
November.
	There is yet a chance to vote for the
best men, even if one has let the oppor-
tunity of attending the primaries go by,
and no woman who values her self respect
or the welfare of her family or the public
weal should vote for a disreputable man,
who will stand for the saloon element
and such like immoral places. Ex-
amine every name on the ticket and study
carefully the character of the men whose
names are before the public. This is
true, genuine patriotism. Be sure and
vote, for every woman’s vote counts just
the same as a man’s. It is the impera-
tive duty one owes to the state, the coun-
ty and the city.


[Column 1]
HOLLAND AND THE CAUSE OF PEACE.
	The year 1907 will be remarkable in
many respects; and one very important
and notable event has been a real “Par-
liament of Man.” The first Hague con-
ference in 1899 had representatives from
twenty-six nations only, and that was a
beginning, but this year, 1907, the con-
ference holding its sessions in the “Old
Hall of Knights,” at the Hague, we may
say represented the civilized world. The
forty-six nations whose delegates were
gathered in that august assembly, what-
ever may be the achievements, mark a
significant period in human history.
	Looking backward in history, Holland
has made momentous progress for the
peace and welfare of the world.
	William Penn, in his remarkable essay,
published in Europe in 1693, a few years
before his last visit to Pennsylvania, con-
tains some astonishing statements on the
subject of what is termed today interna-
tional union. One paragraph reads: “The
United States of Holland, established at
Utrecht in 1579, was the great precursor
of the United States of America, and the
prophecy of the United States of Europe.”
	In this age it is apparent that great
powers are working for what the poet
Tennyson, who is so often quoted, called
“the federation of the world.”
	The motto of the Dutch Union was
“By concord little things become great.”
	It is said that the first large and con-
spicuous example in modern history of
liberty and self-government was given by
Holland. Its Dutch Republic antedates
the English Commonwealth as it ante-
dates the planting of New England which
it so signally promoted.
	New England owes a debt to Holland
for its generous hospitality to its exiled
forefathers.
	It is worth while to note the principle
of toleration in the history of Holland;
in this respect one of the greatest writers

[Column 2]
has said Holland led mankind. Motley
says “While religious persecution raged
over all the world besides, this Republic
became the refuge for the oppressed of
all nations.” Not only did our pilgrim
fathers turn to Holland but the perse-
cuted Huguenots in France turned their
faces to Holland when they prayed. In
view of many facts in history relating to
the Dutch Republic and religious tolera-
tion, it is not astonishing, but indeed it
seems a natural consequence that the gos-
ple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints should find so many fol-
lowers in the Dutch provinces, and such
freedom and liberty to teach and preach
its doctrines.
	One of the recent writers of modern
times says, “It was in accord with poetic
justice and the historic fitness of things
that the capital of Holland, the land of
Grotius and Erasmus should have been
chosen as the seat of the most august and
beneficent Congress of modern times;
for such surely history will pronounce the
two Peace Conferences at “The Hague.”
It was from the Government of the Neth-
erlands that the formal invitations went
to the nations. On the beautiful May-
day in 1899 when the first conference
opened, the flags of nearly all civilized
countries were thrown to the breeze from
the public buildings of the Dutch capital,
and in the afternoon the representatives
of twenty-five nations met for the open-
ing ceremonies in the Orange Hall of
the famous “House in the Wood.”
	M. de Beaufort, the Netherlands min-
ster of foreign affairs, called the meeting
to order. He said: “Her Majesty, my
august Sovereign, has put at the disposal
of this Conference the most historical
monument she possesses. This room,
decorated by the greatest artists of the
17th century, was erected by the widow
of Prince Frederick Henry to the mem-
ory of her husband.” He then explained
some of the allegorical figures of great
merit. One where Peace enters the
room to close the Temple of Janus.
He expressed the wish that it might be a
good omen for their labors, and after de-
liberations were concluded they could say
that Peace, which is shown to enter the
room, has gone out for the purpose of
scattering its blessings over all humanity.
It was there that on the 29th of July,
1899, the arbitration convention was
signed, which provided for settling differ-
ences by arbitrament of reason, instead
of arbitrament of arms.
	The corner-stone of the Temple of
Peace at the Hague has been laid in this
memorable summer of 1907, and of the
Parliament of Man; an event of peculiar
significance to Americans because of the
munificent gift of a million and a half of
dollars by Andrew Carnagie. This is the
material semblance of the good time
coming, and may the spiritual influences
also be a prophecy of the true spirit and
power that shall eventually come through
faith in God, and the everlasting gospel,
viz: “Peace on earth and good will among
men,” as foretold by the Divine Master,
the “Prince of Peace.”
	The Latter-day Saints are working for
peace, and for religious toleration in the
strict sense of the word, and they main-
tain the principles for which the Consti-
tution of our country stands, and one of
them is “An asylum for the oppressed of
all nations.”


