[Music: Baton Technique, Singing, and Interpretation by Florence J. Madsen]

Music Department of Union Meeting) Lesson 3—Baton Technique, Singing, and Interpretation Florence J]. Madsen Objective: To become better acquainted with the art of conducting and singing.
Required reference: Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall 1.
Application of the 2/4
BatonPattern (Continued) (a) In continuing the application of (b) (c) (d) (a) arly useful in conducting large the 2/4 baton-pattern to the hymns that follow, it is recommended that continual effort be made to refine the baton strokes. From here on these strokes will be known and referred to as beats. Avoid stressing or hurrying the upward beats of the baton. Superfluous motions of any kind absorb energy that could be used to better advantage. When using a music stand, conduct over it, looking at your music only incidentally. This implies, of course, that the stand can be adjusted to your needs. Conduct into, or to the side of the music stand, only when absolutely necessary. Exercises for Practice Practice the 2/4 baton-pattern until it is easy to perform: first, with the maximum arm and baton length;. Second, with the medium (forearm). Practice this pattern several times with the arm and baton across the body, then to the side of the body. The first one of these positions is particugroups because, first, the sopranos and treble instruments are usually to the left, or in front of the conductor; second, because the conductor is afforded a more extensive baton leverage; and, third, because the performers are enabled to see the entire baton instead of just its tip. The side pattern (close to the body) is more adaptable for use in conducting small groups for the reason that they are nearer to the conductor and, therefore, can more easily see and follow _ the baton- -pattern. "Our delight in any particular study, art, or science rises and improves. In proportion to the © toe which we bestow upon it."—Addison 3. Hymns for Practice, (a) Practice the following hymns: 1. L. D. S. Hymns, pp 13) 18, 25, 74> Wf ee -2. Deseret Sunday School Songs, PP-3> 44 53s 58, Go, 240; 243, _ 27], 284. 3. Hymns (new LDS. Book) PP..17, 21, 35, 41, 62, 89, 138. 4. Singing—a Universal Gift (a) The power of expression through gesture and vocal utterance is one, of the greatest gifts that has come. To man. We cannot overestimate the» value of communication through speech. With training and practice, the speaking voice can be given more range, greater power, various inflections, and increased beauty of quality.
LESSON DEPARTMENT (b) Singing is all of these essentials, amplified, extended, intensified, and beautified. History shows that the desire and capacity to sing is latent in all civilized, normal human beings. From this we may conclude that, if given the urge and opportunity, we could all sing. This is affirmed by Dr. Emil Seashore in his book, Psychology of Music, as follows: "The normal mind (which is the average mind) is musical and the normal body is the instrument for adequate expression of music..." 5. Preliminary Exercises for Singing (a) Hum softly, with lips closed, teeth apart, on pitches in the medium part of the voice. Note a feeling of resonance in the cavities of the face and head. It is the singer's aim to retain and increase this resonance while singing prolonged vowels in syllables and words. (b) Hum the melodies of a few of the following hymns: 1. L. D. S. Hymns, pp. 113, 293, 367. 2. Deseret Sunday School Songs, Pp. 27, 47, 110. 3. Hymns (new L. D. S. Book) pp. 44, 87, 117. (c) Sing these songs through with: (1) mum, (2) may, (3) my, (4) mo, (5) me. (d) Practice these songs with a different syllable for each line. (e) Sing the listed songs with their words. Determine whether or not the tone quality is unrestricted and resonant. 6. Steps in Interpretation (a) The first step in song interpretation is for the performer to phrase properly. This is accomplished by breathing or suspending breath at all punctuation marks. (b) Practice phrasing in the above songs. 641 POPULAR THREE-PARTexsexsex SACRED sees HORUSES FOR Ninginé Mothers R3514
Beyond the Sunset—Brock.$.20 1451
Bless This House—Brahe a5 20293
Eye Hath Not Seen—Gaul.12 R2782
God Painted A Picture— DeRose --------2--------- 20 531
Hold Thou My Hand— BriggS -----------2----0--------- as 256
Holy Redeemer—Marchetti_.15 7002
Just for Today—Seaver ___ 18 1776
The King of Glory—Parks.20 1759
The Lord Is My Light— Allitsen _ 22----.---------- 18 O144_ = The Prayer Perfect— Stenson __W --..---.------------- lS 1596
The Stranger of Galilee— Morris --.---------------------2---.20 MUSIC SENT ON APPROVAL Mail Orders Filled Promptly WE PAY POSTAGE We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester Pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories; and records. FIRST OF ALL — RELIASAITYV Daunes J ae ae MAIN STREET Sait Ms city 9, Ad 
642  IT'S EASY to rent a small HAMMOND ORGAN or a beautiful SPINETTE PIANO for your home! With credit of Rent Toward Purchase! — Write for Particulars — GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74
South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah ALL ABOARD 3% ' for Garden Beauty and Pleasant Home! Here's your planting time table: BLOOMS FLOWER TRAIN START PLANTS arrivVE (Giant IRIS Bearded) Aug.-Sept. Way MADONNA LILIES Aug.-Sept. June DAFFODILS Sept.-Oct. | April TULIPS Oct.-Nov. | May PEONIES Oct-Nov. | May LILACS & TREES November | May A complete list of bulbs. And plants for fall planting will be sent on request.
Send a post card today. PORTER-WALTON P. O. BOX 1619 — SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
Differentiate between the maximum | and medium baton strokes or beats. A.
Demonstrate with the baton. 2.
Explain the proper use of the music | stand. 3. Why practice the hum? 4.
Discuss the universality of the gift of singing. » * * An Apple for the Teacher (Continued from page 591) "Well, I'm glad you're used to climbing, Jimmy. I wouldn't want you to fall and hurt yourself picking my apples." She led the way over to the tree. "Now, you just catch hold of that first limb and I'll give you a little boost."
Jimmy obeyed, and with his fingers curved over the limb and one foot extended backward, prepared to spring up. "U - uh - there! Up you go!" A little leap and Jimmy was on the limb, weaving his way through to the main fork of the tree.
Bracing himself, he allowed his eyes to make a quick survey of the branches, adorned here and there with luscious, red apples. Gee, wouldn't Nancy like to have one of these big, red apples! If I had some money I might ask to buy one, he thought, and for a second his hopes soared high, only to take a sudden drop. He had no money, and he remembered, too, that his Mom had paid the rent the day before and had brought in a few groceries with the last of the money. He couldn't even run home, now, and get any. AN APPLE FOR THE TEACHER "Have you got sure footing, Jimmy? I wouldn't want you to fall." The sound of Mrs. Bently's voice broke the silence. Jimmy's daydreaming ended suddenly. "I'm safe, Ma'am. You won't need to worry. I'm used to this." He continued with emphasis, "Gee, Ma'am, I've never seen any apples as big and red ase titese!"' "Neither have I.
They are nice.
There aren't many of them, but what there are turned out well.
Will you be able to reach them all, Jimmy?" "Yes, I think so, Ma'am." One by one, Jimmy picked the apples and dropped them carefully into the bucket that swung from a lower branch. "I think that's all of them, Ma'am," he called, and dropped the last apple into the bucket. "Well, that's fine.
Come on down now. But be careful—don't fall!"
Even though Jimmy had given a good demonstration of his climbing ability, Mrs.
Bently still persisted in cautioning him. But before she had the words out of her mouth he was on the ground. GHE reached up and lifted the half-filled bucket from the limb and set it down beside her as she spoke. "You've been a great help to me, Jimmy. All summer I've wondered how I was going to get these apples down and save them from the frost. As a matter of fact, I don't have any use for them myself, but I never like to see things go to waste." She stood for a moment looking down at the apples, then stooped 643
All Funeral Services Are $tenographically Recorded ra IT HAS ALWAYS been our policy to have complete funeral services to fit any budget - - - lam Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary 125 N. Main 3-7626 SALT LAKE CITY does it be faster and at low @ost 4M. OS int A Utah Power & Light Company Message 644 and rolled several of them over in the bucket, carefully concealing the small slip of paper she had taken from her apron pocket. "How would you like to take the apples home with you, Jimmy? Do you suppose you and your Mom and Nancy could find use for them?" The thought of taking these big, red apples to Nancy made Jimmy's heart thump. But when he thought of what his Mom had told him and remembered again that he had no money, he knew that he must not let himself build any hopes. "Yes, Ma'am, we could find use for them, all right, but I haven't any money and Mom said I must never take anything without payin' for it." "But, Jimmy!" she laughed, "you have paid for them!" Jimmy was puzzled. "You see," she explained, "I had to get someone to pick the apples, and certainly I would not expect to have it done for nothing." Jimmy looked up at her hesitatingly. "But Mom might think I took the apples, Ma'am, and she wouldn't like that. Mom says it's awful to steal and Heavenly Father always sees even if nobody else does." Mrs. Bently smiled. "Your Mom is right, Jimmy. It is very wrong to steal. But you earned these apples, and you won't need to worry about your Mom mistrusting you, either, because I tucked a note underneath them, explaining everything." Picking up the bucket, she took Jimmy's hand and wrapped his scrawny fingers around the pail. "Thanks so much for helping me, 
Jimmy," she said, as she opened the | gate and let him through. "And tell your Mom I'll be calling on her soon. You see, I'm looking for a new friend. Oh, and, Jimmy!" She followed him through the gate and, reaching up, she picked the best big, red apple on the overhanging branch and tossed it into the bucket. "Take this one to the teacher." _<- Leaving a Atouse Dorothy J. Roberts An east door framed a square of orchard Lush in summer's vibrant green, Ethereal in winter's blossoms, Or rich in autumn's tangerine. A picture window held Olympus, Changeful in the tides of light; Another showed a friendly neighbor Bent to her garden's gay delight. These we left on living canvas Where the pigments of time were laid; These, and a tree's response to seasons, These, and a yard where children played. My Neighbor Christie Lund Coles My neighbor's door is never still; I hear it slam from dawn till night. Her house is never empty of Her children and their wild delight. I know sometimes she looks toward here And envies me my quiet day, My leisure and the time I find For contemplation's calming way. Yet, what she does not guess is how I often look toward her door And hunger for the childish noise I hear no more. AN APPLE FOR THE TEACHER 645 ane — RIGHT NOW'S THE TIME TO BE QUALIFIED FALL TERM AT L. D. S. Registration Sept. 5
Personalized attention to your individual needs. Call or write for free bulletin of information. I, [) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 NORTH MAIN Salt Lake City Clouds Lurene Gates Wilkinson Clouds are feminine, I'm sure, With their whimsies And their grace. One danced across the hill today In a misty veil Of lace. But yesterday I met a cloud That was a Fickle wench; First she smiled enticingly— Then left me there To drench! Learn This - - - Beautiful Art ITS EASY! And facinating too ae Ee "Learn Netting'' ya ~ ~% AFTER YEARS this nearly forgotten ancient Art has been revived. The NELSON BOOK OF NETTING shows fifteen different, beautiful designs of Doilies, Handkerchiefs, Baby Bonnets and other lovely items you can make.
The booklet gives pictured, easy to follow instructions for the student. No Instructor Necessary. The Kit, comprised of 5 different size plastic mesh sticks and steel needle, with instruction book, comes to you for only— $ 3 ° 50
Send 10c postage and State tax if it applies. You may purchase Needle @ $1.00, 5
Mesh Sticks @ $1.00 or Instruction and Pattern Book @ $1.50 separately. AVAILABLE AT 
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City, Utah AUERBACH'S, Salt Lake City, Utah HEINDSELMAN KNIT SHOP, Provo, Utah J. C. PENNY CO., Ogden, Utah C. C. ANDERSON, Logan, Utah GOLDEN RULE STORE, Preston, Utah FARGO, WILSON & WELLS, Pocatello, Idaho M. H. KING STORES, Idaho Falls, Idaho IDAHO DEPARTMENT STORE, Twin Falls, Idaho
DENVER DRY GOODS
CoO., Denver, Colorado If this item is not in your department store, send to: The ARTCRAFT PRESS Manufacturers 217
Beason Bldg., Salt Lake City An inexpensive GIFT for Holidays or Birthdays ROLBUCK ANDCO FIRST to Sears THEN | to — = spat 'SEARS ot your monty back RONIE JOHNSON Phone 4-4025
Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Salt Lake City 
Professional and Social Stationery & COMMERCIAL AND EDITION -PRINTERS AND 'BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 40
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Fnroll Now— Brigham Young University opens its 75th and greatest year on Sept. 25th * New Fieldhouse * New Science Building * Greater Curricula * Jubilee Activities New. Students should apply for admission by September 1 THERE IS STILL TIME BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH From Near and Sar Lydia Bennet Egbert, author of the story "An Apple for the Teacher," was born and reared in Mound Valley, Idaho. She is the wife of Hyrum Herbert Egbert and the mother of six daughters, all married. Mrs. Egbert is also more than proud of her ten grandchildren. ''An Apple for the Teacher" is her first published story, although she has written many poems. Among her Church activities is an active interest in genealogical work and she serves as genealogist for her family organization. Ezra J. Poulsen, Salt Lake City, author of the three-part story ""White September," beginning in this issue of the Magazine, is already well-known to our readers through his many articles and stories, including "The Rock and the River" (1944) and "Windy Hilltop" (1948). He grew up in Paris, Idaho, which is the locale for many of his writings. Mr. Poulsen tells us that he started to write a novel when he was very young, but, due to plot difficulties and lack of time, he laid the material aside. "But years afterwards I discovered it was still faintly breathing. I nursed it back to a certain amount of health, and gave it a big shot of revision. The final result has been my novel Birthright, recently off the press. I early developed the habit of glorifying the small town, and Paris, Idaho, is the Knowlton of White September." * * % The editorial "Our Pioneer Heritage" (by Counselor Velma N. Simonsen) in the July Magazine was excellent. All too often we feel smug because we are related to some faithful soul. These lines come to me and fit the idea of the editorial: "You have to do your own growing no matter how tall your grandfather was." —Mrs. Laura R. Merrill Logan, Utah I should hate to miss an issue of this wonderful little friend—it is almost like one of the family coming home for a visit every month. —Mrs. Joanna L. Wenkfield St. Helene, Oregon I loved that article about the woman who prepared for death. I don't know when anything has appealed to me as that did. ("The Household of Faith," May 1950.) I guess it was the courage shown. Also, I thought the writing of it exceptionally good. The serial by Alice Bailey, "Dark in the Chrysalis," is interesting, also, and beautifully written. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho I thought you might be interested to know that the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine was commented upon very favorably in a radio program over station KG, San Francisco. The program was Ann Holden's "Home Forum," upon which I was interviewed, and Miss Holden tread "A Sidewalk Sketch" from the October 1949
Magazine, and said how interested she was to know of the Magazine and the poetry used in it. —Elaine Swain Vallejo, California I would like a complete copy of the story published in 1947, "Where Trails Run Out" by Anna Prince Redd. Can you tell me if it is published in book form and. The publisher's name? I enjoy reading the stories and articles every month, especially the contest poems and stories. —Mrs. S. L. Zundell Venice, California This story, which was a favorite with many of our readers, has not yet been published in book form.—Ed. Please renew my subscription for two years, to the best little Magazine in the world. —Mary Lda Loucks Spokane, Washington I love my little Magazine and hope to be able to keep it going. The lessons and stories are wonderful and help in many ways. —Mrs. Stella Mann Gideon, Missouri  TO NEW MEMBERS OF THE Family Reading lub THIS BIG 1420 PAGE Lh _f ding Club Uarantee
NEW COLLEGE STANDARD DICTIONARY
Ne ee eee \ Mail Coupon Now! CS BOTH FREE WITH MEMBERSHIP | New College Standard Dictionary and "Room for One More" FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 9RSM Mineola, New York Please send me the two books listed above as my free Membership Gift Books and enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club. Each month you will send me a review of the Club's forthcoming selection — which I may accept or reject as I choose. There are no membership dues or fees — only the requirement that I accept a minimum of four selections during the coming twelve months, beginning with the current Club selection, at only $1.89 each, plus postage and handling. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections I accept. Mr. "Swe ODOM OOO Oem OOO UDUOOL Miss (Please Print) Street and No. 0.000. Cece cece cn eee 1
Zone State Age, if Occupation 2.0. C cee eeeUnder 21
Same price in Canada: 105
Bond St., Toronto 2
Offer good only in the U. S. A. And Canada SSS reer Funk & Wagnalls SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME AND OFFICE! * Over 145,000 entries * EM-PHA-TYPE system of pronunciation * 5 000 NEW words * 1,420 pages * Authoritative and Complete * 1,000 illustrations * $5.50 in publisher's edition, but yours FREE with membership in our club, as explained below ALSO FREE WITH MEMBERSHIP "ROOM FOR ONE MORE" By Anna P. Rose A wise and gentle family opens its home to three waifs who had never before known the comfort of a family circle. Published at $2.75, but yours free with membership!
BOOKS FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY
Yes, you may have both of the books described on this page as your FREE MEMBERSHIP GIFT BOOKS when you join our Book Club! The Family Reading Club was founded to select worthwhile, interesting and entertaining books for the whole family — books that are not objectionable in an way. Each month our Editors select the one boo they can recommend most enthusiastically — a book which you can read with pleasure and discuss with delight. WHAT MEMBERSHIP MEANS TO YOU: You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase from the Club, after reading the book review which will come to your home each month. And to retain membership, you need purchase only four books each year! With each four selections you take, you will receive a free ''Bonus'' Book that meets the high Club standards of excellence, interest, superior writing and wholesome subject matter. With the value of the Bonus Books figured in you can thus save up to 50 percent of your book dollars! JOIN NOW — SEND NO MONEY: If you believe in a Book Club which will appeal to the finest instincts of your family, let us send' you both of the books descrbed above as your free Membership Gift Books. Just mail the coupon. However, as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW!
FAMILY READING CLUB
Mineola, New York Your 'College grade" courses in education offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00
Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE L. D. S. Missionary Edition $9.25, Others $1.75 to $20.00
Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING," by Constance Talbot $2.90
Literature: The Literature of England Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL. I by Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: "The Progress of Man" Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN." by Joseph Fielding Smith $2.25 — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44
East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers
OCTOBER 1950 e Li] pm} Cc 3 = o cel " ec o " " ) at a 0 VOL. 37 NO. 1