["And They Shall Also Teach Their Children" by Christine H. Robinson]

'And They Shall Also Teach Their Children''
GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT THROUGH THE
Famity Hour Christine H. Robinson Member, Relief Society General Board N these latter days the Lord has again emphasized a fundamental of successful living which is as old as the human race itself. In November, 1831, through his chosen Prophet, Joseph Smith, the Lord instructed his people that " they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." He also said, "For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion" (D. & C. 68:28, 26). The family unit and the obligations of parents to children and of children to parents have ever been a subject of concern and instruction from God-inspired men. One of the Ten Commandments given to Moses for the guidance of Israel was, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee" (Ex. 20:12). The apostle Paul, in his letter to the Ephesians, stressed the importance of the family unit and admonished children to obey their parents and to honor their fathers and mothers. And to the parents he said, "And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord" (Eph. 6:4).
Much of the unhappiness in the world today and many of its ills are the direct result of man's failure to heed these instructions. In many  great countries millions of God's children have been persuaded to the evil belief that the government is all-important, and that the Godgiven rights and interests of individuals and of family groups must be bent to the will of the State. Furthermore, all over the world, the bonds of marriage and the sanctity of home life are being violated. 'Today, in the United States, the rate has risen to such heights that more than one marriage out of every four ends in failure, resulting in the devastating effects of broken homes and divided parenthood.
Recognizing the seriousness of this basic problem, leaders of our Church have given inspired instructions to Latter-day Saints of this day in regard to strengthening of the - family unit. The members of the Lord's Church in these latter days must show the way and set the example which will strengthen man's faith in himself and make more firm the sanctity of the home. Our Church leaders have long known that one of the best ways of teaching children to honor their parents, and of encouraging parents to rear their children in righteousness, is through family prayer and through family-group activities. One of the most effective ways of stimulating these activities is through the familyplanned "Family Hour." "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" HE Relief Society is highly honored with the assignment and the responsibility given it by the General Authorities to encourage all Latter-day Saint families to experience the joys and_ satisfactions which come from planned and regularly held Family Hours. The other auxiliaries of the Church, representing different age groups in our families, have joined with the Relief Society in helping to establish and further this Family Hour program.
Those families which regularly participate in this program know the extent of individual development and the unity and happiness this activity brings. For example, many parents have had experiences similar to that of one Salt Lake City family of eight members, including six small children, who organized their group on a corporation basis, with each member acting as a stockholder.
This family group meets on a scheduled evening twice each month to discuss family affairs and to enjoy the association of one another. At one meeting, the discussion centered around an important event soon to take place—the addition of a new member to the family. The group discussed the expected new arrival, and each member volunteered the help he or she would provide. 'The event was looked forward to with great joy and anticipation and, when the beautiful new baby girl was born, each member of the family sensed a feeling of individual ownership and pride, and the joy experienced in participation went far to establish a firm foundation for solidarity and unity in that family.
Thoughtful parents have an abiding interest in the spiritual, intel- 581 lectual, and social growth of their children.
Individual participation in regularly held Family Hours can do much to stimulate this growth. It is generally agreed among eminent psychologists that one reason small children often attempt to "showoff," and are difficult to handle in the presence of company, is because their parents have failed to give them ample opportunity to express themselves in normal family relationships. The Family Hour, if properly planned and conducted, can serve as one of the best possible means of encouraging this self-expression. Some Methods of Conducting Family Hours Parents who have the greatest success with their Family Hours do not think of them as regimented or stilted formal meetings. Rather, they use the Family Hour as a means of getting their children together for the purpose of discussing family plans and problems, of socializing as a family group, of organizing special family study programs, of learning more about the gospel, and of developing the art of self-expression.
Some specific activities which contribute to successful Family Hour programs include: An evening of good music.
Each member contributes with his own talents or with playing favorite records, and with group singing of selected songs and hymns. An evening of games.
Most family members, young, or old, enjoy games in which all can participate. To be most effective, these should be planned in advance for maximum variety and group interest. An evening of enjoyable reading. In this activity, reading should 582 be aloud, with as many of the group members as possible participating.
Books to be read should be selected wisely for maximum interest and intellectual and spiritual development.
This is an excellent opportunity for enjoyment and enlightenment from reading the scriptures. An evening of planned discussion. For subject matter, current articles from Church publications, including The Reliet Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Instructor, The Children's Friend and the "Church Section" of The Deseret News, might be used. A variety of interesting discussion topics can be decided upon by the group. An evening of reminiscing.
Extremely interesting Family Hour periods can be built around missionary experiences of father, mother, son, or daughter, and courtship experiences, and other — events. A stimulating evening can grow out of "my most interesting experience" related by each member of the group. A picnic or outing can be effectively used as a part of the Family Hour program.
These outside activities can add variety to the family gathering and can do much to hold the group together. HESE are only a few of the many activities which can be employed to make Family Hours appealing and stimulating.
Organized family groups will find other ways to develop interesting self-expression: There are, however, four fundamentals which every thoughtful parent will strive to make a part of the Family Hour program.
These are: 1. The activity should be planned by the group as a whole, or each member of the group should be given responsibility, in turn, for its planning.
Tivity a prime opportunity to help  2.
Everyone should participate in the evening's activity.
This does not mean, however, that Family Hours should be postponed if some member or members of the family group are absent. Family Hours should be held regularly, even if all family members are not present. 3. Family Hours should be informal and natural.
Refreshments always add a note of informality and enjoyment. 4.
Spirituality should be a fundamental part.
Although the social and recreational aspects are important in the Family Hour, wise parents will find in this group actheir children to grow and develop spiritually.
Fortunate indeed are young men and women who have been given opportunity to approach their Father in heaven in -sincere and humble vocal prayer. Each Family Hour should commence with prayer or close with the usual family prayer. 8 An incident was told by a former mission president of two young missionaries who had recently arrived in the field. At one of their regular meetings at the mission home, one of the young men was called upon to pray.
With poise and dignity, he led the group in a beautiful but humble prayer.
After the meeting, the other new missionary expressed amazement and asked his friend how he had been able to do it. In answer, the young man explained that it was easy because as long as he could remember he had participated in family prayers at home with his family group. Some Blessings and Benefits Lasting benefits and_ blessings flow out of regular participation in family-group activities. The Family Hour performs an important function in helping both children and parents to taste the joys of service and the satisfactions that come "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" 583 through giving of themselves to the family as a unit.
This heaven-inspired home activity fosters the practice of love in its truest form, not just the showing of outward affection, but the real understanding that comes from learning to think in terms of "we" rather than "me." The Family Hour provides one of the surest ways of strengthening family ties. One of the beautiful things which our gospel emphasizes is the eternal importance of the individual and the family, and the Photograph by L. V. McNeely vital part the home plays in their development. Not only is the family the center of our present civilization, but one of the greatest blessings any member of the Church can enjoy is to be married for time and for eternity and to have the family sealed together as a unit forever. It is an absolute fact that no nation can rise higher than the quality of its homes, and that no home is stronger than the children it produces.
Blessed is the family whose children are taught "to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." THE ARZA A. HINCKLEY FAMILY ENJOYING AN EVENING OF MUSIC Left, at the organ, reading from front to back: Harold; Jessie Lynn; Susan; Jean. In foreground, standing, left to right: Jo Ann; Alonzo. At the back, standing, left to right: Erma Taysom Hinckley and Arza H. Hinckley, holding the baby Louise. White September Ezra J. Poulsen CHAPTER 1 OU never know what goes on inside a woman's pretty head. That's why Daphne Sommers was so baffling to everyone when she returned to Knowlton after an absence of ten years. 'Though she was barely thirty, her hair was almost white. In every other way, however, she was as youthful as ever. Her smooth, oval cheeks were full of bloom; her step was vibrant; and her voice had the same golden melody as when she was twenty. Then, there remained the old flare of impudence in her manner. She seemed to be defying the rumors that she'd lived a gay, reckless life in the city.
Being merely the home-town boy whom she'd jilted in search of a more glamorous romance, I might be expected to be a trifle confused. It turned out to be worse than that —I was uncomfortable and afraid. It was unpleasant to have my friends looking down their noses at me again; and, frankly, I began thinking the town wasn't big enough for the two of us.
Sometimes thwarted love makes you feel that way—less afraid of death itself than the possibility of being hurt the second time. Nevertheless, as president and cashier of the bank, I was too busy to entertain any foolish notions of running away. So Daphne just breezed in, took over the big house left vacant by the death of her father, and began to be very much in evidence. 'This would have been less disturbing if she had been difPage 584 ferent, but she was one of those people whose presence creates a new center of gravity—you must either be drawn into the vortex surrounding their personalities, or stay far enough away to be attracted toward some other pole. In a town as small as Knowlton, the latter was quite impossible. "You see, I'm quite an old woman,' she laughed, greeting her friends. "My hair is white. But I haven't reached December yet, only September—white September." She laughed this off very easily. It was her way. "We like your hair." "You look wonderful."
These were stock answers, especially with the younger set with whom she quickly became very popular. The boys gathered around her like moths around a lamp, to enjoy her wit and gaiety, and to learn from her stock of scintillating, worldly lore. 'This created talk and suspicion in other quarters, but not - among the younger girls, who admired her hair, her clothes, her inexhaustible glamor. "Oh, she's grand," sighed Mollie Dangerfield, her niece. It was natural for Mollie to adore her, for half the town had already declared she was the image of her Aunt Daphne, even to the extent of following in her flirtatious footsteps. | At best, Mollie's fiance, 'Tom Andrews, was playing an uneasy role.
Mollie was at the moment carrying on a secondary romance with ~WHITE SEPTEMBER Paul Ebberly, who spent his sum- -mers at the resort on Bear Lake, as well as giving encouragement to several other local boys. 'Tom was my assistant at the bank. I could easily see he was going through exactly what I'd once suffered with Daphne. And now, with Mollie's irresponsible, adorable auntie back, I thought he could expect things to grow steadily worse. APHNE''S first party was a grand affair. Old Bill Sommers' big Georgian house hadn't looked so dressed up in years. A decorator and a caterer came up from the city, and fresh-cut flowers were shipped in for corsages. We're a trifle behind on such matters in Knowlton.
Several carloads of young folks, friends of Daphne's, also came from the city. Paul Ebberly was there, as well as Tom Andrews. Mollie, dressed in a cream-colored evening gown of flowered organdy over taffeta, and looking almost as light and airy as a butterfly on a summer afternoon, danced and flirted to her heart's content. 'The event was a rather trying one for me. I couldn't be so rude as to refuse the invitation altogether, especially when everyone else was going, and I was sure my presence there would be regarded as evidence that I had outgrown my youthful disappointment. But I hovered in the outer edge of events, keeping in the shadows as much as possible, though circumstances required me to become an active participant once or twice.
Even then, I avoided Daphne, "or met her with cool formality, and "she paid only the most casual attention to me.
Next morning, I was at my desk 585 when Tom came in with a haggard, washed-out expression on his face. "Well," he said miserably, after greeting me, "I guess it's all over between Mollie and me. I took my tring back last night." He dropped into his chair and drummed his fingers on his desk, letting his tall, angular form sag lifelessly, and his gray, deep-set eyes wander over my shoulder. "I'm leaving Knowlton." "Oh, now, Tom, don't talk like that. We need you here." I was a trifle alarmed, but felt capable of giving him some good advice right out of my own book of experience. "Whatever you do, don't let a love affair destroy your career. I've been through the same thing. I know how you feel. But—but I—" | Just then the street door opened, and in walked Daphne, dressed in a chic black suit, and a hat set off with a small white feather. She smiled winningly and _ walked straight up to the railing in front of me. G, wae morning, Jim," she greeted., "Good morning." I felt like a boy caught in the act of stealing jam. The temperature seemed to rise ten degrees. But, leaning back in my chair, I looked at her cautiously. I knew her presence was a challenge, and accepted it as such.
There was a flood of memories, even after ten years, and I had to be on my guard, knowing Daphne was scheming something. "Jim, may I see you alone—about a matter of business?" "Certainly." I opened the door of my private consultation room, and invited her in.
When we were seated on opposite sides of the table, I waited. 586 "Jim, I want to borrow three thousand dollars," she said evenly. "T'm going to send Mollie to Europe this summer.
Poor child, she's hardly even been out of this poky little place, and it's about time she saw something of life." It was easy to see Daphne was under a strain in spite of her composure. I knew she was smart enough to see how foolish this proposition sounded to the ears of a banker. "You can have a mortgage on the old home for security," she proposed impatiently, as if I'd already refused her. "I have some property in the city up for sale, too. I'll pay the loan off as soon as the sale goes through." ILL Sommers' home was perfectly good security. But I felt as if Bill would turn over in his grave in protest against this plan to throw away his home in order to send his already spoiled granddaughter on an unnecessary trip. Canny Scot that he was, he'd often opposed his wife's rather extravagant concern about the social future of his children. He'd come from Europe himself, and experienced its hardships and lack of opportunity. No one in Knowlton had ever heard him express a desire to return to the old world, even for a visit; but many had heard him praise the goodness and abundance of America. | For the first time, I tried to look straight into Daphne's deep, restless eyes, but she hid them behind her long, silken lashes.
Then my eyes fell upon her lovely hair. Somehow, it gave her an exotic, sophisticated beauty. In spite of its whitish RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1950 cast, it seemed warm and alluring; yet, knowing Daphne's temperament, I couldn't understand her failure to dye it. Then, a train of memories began. HE Sommers house stood on the - brow of the hill on the west side of town, where it commanded. A broad view of the valley.
From childhood I'd loved the place, running across the street from my own much smaller home on the lower side of the hill whenever I had an opportunity.
There was always a thrill in going through the tall picket gate, and up the broad flagstone walk bordered by a maze of shrubbery and flowers. I could always be sure the beautiful Mrs. Sommers, whose hair reminded me of Martha Washington's, would load me with cookies and let me play with her little daughter Daphne. Later, it became a habit to call for Daphne on my way to school.