[Vol37 | September 1950 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: 580 The Practical Nurse — A New Opportunity | Author: Elaine Mellor]
Practical Nlurse—A Tlew Opportunity Elaine Mellor, R. N. B. S. Director, Practical Nursing, Salt Lake Area Vocational School (CJ )LEASE—Help us find a Practical Nurse." How often has this plea been heard—and gone unanswered? Nursing registries frequently have such calls as this and are unable to help. It is the age-old problem, demand greater than supply. There is a need for more people to enter this field. 'The demand for nursing service is growing steadily and cannot adequately be filled by the number of registered nurses now on duty or in training. "What is a Practical Nurse?" Often we think of a practical nurse as a kindly person, perhaps a next-door neighbor, who has learned a "way" around sick people by working with them. The need for practical nurses is now so acute that formal courses of instruction have been set up in various states, and these people are being educated for the work they do. The people are assured of the right kind of nursing care because the Licensed Practical Nurse receives her title today only upon completion of this formal course of training after which she must pass a state examination.* "What does a Practical Nurse do? The practical nurse learns to give complete bedside care, to make the patient comfortable. She learns techniques in preventing the spread of communicable diseases, how to amuse the convalescing child, how to care for the new mother and her baby. Emphasis is placed upon the care of the patient in the home—preparation of the proper diet, and how to safely adapt improvised equipment to the needs of the patient. The practical nurse should not be expected to care for critically or acutely ill patients. Her training does not prepare her to perform highly skilled treatments. She functions here as a valuable assistant to the professional staff by relieving them of nursing duties which do not require an extensive scientific background. Practical Nursing offers a wonderful opportunity for many women who may be looking for a job with a future. There are opportunities for her to work in the home, in the doctor's office, and in other places where she works under the supervision of a licensed physician or a professional nurse. *A practical nurse is a person trained to care for subacute, convalescent, and chronic patients requiring nursing services at home or in an institution, who works under the direction of a licensed physician or a registered professional nurse, and who is prepared to give household assistance w

---

However, as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW! FAMILY READING CLUB Mineola, New York Your 'College grade" courses in education offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: