[Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference]

Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Lela M. Bailey SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), MANASSA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN, WHO HAVE BEEN ACTIVE WORKERS FOR FIFTY YEARS, DISPLAY TEN OF THE FIFTEEN QUILTS WHICH THEY HAVE MADE Front row, seated, left to right: Jane Jackson; Pearl Holmes; Susan Haynie; Mary Crowther; Bernicia Rogers; Lilly Logue; Lucille Jackson.
Back row, standing, left to right: Mabel DePriest; Edith Christensen; Armeda Bailey; Ida Holsclaw; Fay Bagwell; Nanny DePriest; Secretary Ru Brady; Ethel 'Thomas; President Lucinda Haynie; First Counselor Sadie Brady; Mima Aydelott; Second Counselor Dorothy Sowards; Alice Rogers; May Smith; Anna Christensen. Lucinda Haynie, ward Relief Society. President, reports, with much appreciation, the efforts and accomplishments of these women: "The Manassa Ward Relief Society was assigned seven quilts this year for the Welfare program, and these good sisters (some of them homebound) have met in their homes and cut and pieced twelve quilt tops since January 15th, 1950. Ten of the quilts are shown in the photograph." Lela M.
Bailey is president of San Luis Stake Relief Society.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619
Photograph submitted by Josephine Jenkins FLORIDA STAKE, JACKSONVILLE WARD DISPLAYS APRONS MADE BY RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS, May 2, 1950
Standing at the left: Josephine Jenkins, President, Florida Stake Relief Society, and, at the right, Vergie Shuman, President, Jacksonville Ward Relief Society. Sister Shuman's counselors are Ethel Atkinson and Clara Carter. Sister Jenkins reports that the large number of aprons completed, as well as the beauty of design and workmanship, made this an unusually effective and successful project. A good sum was realized from the sale of the aprons. SOO Sr Photograph submitted by Elaine Richins RENO STAKE (NEVADA) RELIEF SOCIETY PREPARES UNIQUE HISTORICAL DISPLAY FOR VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION April 29, 1950
Front row, seated, left to right, stake board members: Gladys Grieve; Velma Jenson; Dolores Brown; First Counselor Blanch Bertelson; President Isabel Cook; Second Counselor Teddyanna Keele; Secretary-Treasurer Elaine Richins; Elmina Cummins; Bertha Purdy; Edna Platt; Theresa Larson. The other women shown in the picture are visiting teachers from the nine wards in the stake.: The unusual display on the table in the foreground consists of miniature replicas of vehicles and methods used in visiting teaching through the years. 
620  aapenmn none Photograph submitted by Della R. Hulme BEAR LAKE STAKE (IDAHO), DISPLAYS VARIED AND BEAUTIFUL HANDWORK AT BAZAAR Della R. Hulme of Paris, Idaho, describes this unusually successful bazaar: "Under the direction of stake work director Darleen Booth, the wards of the Bear Lake Stake Relief Society held a unique review of some of their accomplishments in the winter work meetings. Many beautiful articles were displayed, including two wedding cakes, clay flowers made into corsages, bouquets, plaques, fresh flowers, two upholstered chairs, many quilts in unusual and intricate designs, rugs, crocheted articles, knitted articles, figurines, textile paintings, lamp shades, and a large variety of children's and adults' clothing." Clarissa Ward is president of Bear Lake Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Bergetta A. Covington YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD ASSEMBLED FOR ANNIVERSARY DAY SOCIAL IN KIRTLAND WARD March 17, 1950 | Left to right: Magazine representative Lois F. Palmer; visiting teacher message leader, Alta B. Boise; First Counselor Bergetta A. Covington; President Harriet D. Foutz (deceased); chorister Helen M. Stock; work meeting leader Avarilla B. Watts; literature leader Ardelle A. Colyer; social science leader Lavinna M. Covington.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 621
Sister Bergetta Covington reports that this social celebrated not only the birthday of Relief Society, but also the birthday of each person present. Twelve tables were arranged, each with a novel and beautiful centerpiece, representing each month of the year. One large table at the head of the hall was decorated in blue and gold, representing the Relief Society, the centerpiece being a large birthday cake decorated with golden shredded coconut and 108 blue candles. Each woman was presented with an emblem of her birth month. After prayer, a banquet was served, after which an original poem was read by Counselor Bergetta A. Covington, entitled "One Hundred and Eight Years of Relief Society." Then each table, beginning with January, sponsored one part of the program. Sister Vera G. Walker was appointed President of Young Stake Relief Society to succeed Sister Foutz, who passed away in April 1950. Photograph submitted by Irene Winegar NYSSA STAKE (OREGON), PRESENTS BENEFIT CONCERT TO RAISE FUNDS FOR NEW ORGAN, June 9, 1950
Left to right, stake board members: Nelda Schenck; Jean Erickson, organist; Faie Duffin; Lucile Goates; Ada Winegar; Emma Chytraus, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society; Mable Child, Counselor; Mary Gilchrist, chorister; Annie Stoker, Counselor; May Boyer; Mable Skeen. This concert was presented in the beautiful new Nyssa stake building. 'Twelve hundred dollars was realized from this concert and handed to Stake President Orvil Child by Sister Chytraus and her counselors. This was the first event in the stake house prior to its dedication. Six wards participated: Ontario, Nyssa First Ward, Nyssa Second Ward, Vale, Owyhee, and Parma, (Idaho). The Stake Secretary-Treasurer Irene Winegar was absent when the photograph was taken. 
622 
Photograph submitted by Carrol Wells TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT GROVE FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ASSEMBLED TO COMMEMORATE ANNIVERSARY DAY March 15, 1950
President Margaret Olpin stands seventh from the left in the second row. This anniversary party commemorated, also, the settlement of Pleasant Grove in 1850. In keeping with the pioneer spirit, many of the women attended the social attired in clothing once wom by their grandmothers and great-grandmothers. The luncheon table was set in true pioneer style, the centerpiece being a three-tiered birthday cake, with miniature sagebrush and log cabins as table decorations. The menu included such pioneer dishes as baked beans, pressed meat, corn bread, molasses, "lumpy dick," dried fruit, and "red mush." An excellent program, in keeping with the occasion, was presented. Assisting President Olpin in arranging the social, were First Counselor Florence Gillman, Second Counselor Beulah Bradley, Secretary-Treasurer Mabel Sykes, and Venus Lindsay. Carrol Wells is president of Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. SW QQ « GO Yh LEE, Oe. MOU wij YY Yj ty Yj \ \. YY Yi ip Photograph submitted by Lenora K. Bringhurst -SWISS-AUSTRIAN MISSION, BASEL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS BIBLICAL DRAMA, March 17, 1950
Lenora K. Bringhurst, President, Swiss-Austrian Mission Relief Society, sends an interesting report regarding Relief Society activities in her mission: "Bazaars have been held in all branches of our mission and a marvelous spirit of co-operation, unity, and love has prevailed throughout. Many hours of knitting and sewing have been put in by each sister to make the bazaars a success, but of all the bazaars that were held, there was one that was outstanding in achievement and that is the Frankenburg
Branch in Austria. These four women are very proud of their work which went into preparing this lovely bazaar, and the house slippers, which you see in the photograph, were professionally made by one of the sisters. One could never expect to buy finer slippers in a large shoe store .... Although this society consists only of the president and a mother and her two daughters, the spirit of the work is with them and the Lord is blessing their efforts."
Page 204

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Photograph submitted by Alice Voyles
SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT RELIEF
SOCIETY CONVENTION, October 22, 1949
Front row, fourth from left, Breta McBride, chorister; fifth from left, Alice
Voyles, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; sixth from left, Nellie Bolick, pianist.
Photograph submitted by Erma Roskelley
SACRAMENTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), ROSEVILLE WARD RELIEF
SOCIETY PRESIDENTS
Front row, left to right: Mary Call; Nellie Boiler; Clara Vanderhoof; Effie Bowman; Lillian Goddard.
Back row, left to right: Erma Roskelley, former President, Sacramento Stake Relief
Society; Kate Gibby; Elizabeth Smith; Emma Sorenson; Myrl Johnson, President,
Roseville Ward Relief Society; Ethyl Boice.
These women have served as presidents since 1923, when the missionaries first came to Roseville.
Sister Roskelley reports: *Tn the last four union meetings held in the spring our stake invited guests to give instructions to the Relief Society leadership of the wards.
We had an interior decorator to give points to homemakers, an expert from a charm school to give good advice on poise, good manners, etc.; in March we had a milliner come in and talk about hats and the most flattering types for each type of woman; in April we invited an expert on materials to talk on the care of clothes and what types of materials are best for various costumes. These talks were accepted with enthusiasm by our ward officers."
Lesslie Stubbs is the newly appointed president of Sacramento Stake Relief
Society.

206
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— MARCH 1950
Photograph submitted by Barbara Funk
PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), ROSEMEAD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY
BAZAAR, November 5, 1949
Only part of the many excellent displays is represented in this photograph. A lovely crocheted tablecloth, several beautifully designed quilts, a number of well-made blouses, many household decorative articles, and many hand-embroidered pillow cases, and other articles were displayed. In this photograph, note the children's clothing and the many attractive aprons.
Sister Madge P. Fowler, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports the outstanding accomplishments of this ward: "Rosemead is our smallest ward and their bazaar was very lovely and a big success." Emmadean Lines is president of the Rosemead Ward Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Jean D. Wright
SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION, MOWBRAY, SEAPOINT, AND PINELANDS
RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, November 5, 1949
Front row, seated at the left, Hilda Dyason, President, Mowbray Branch Relief
Society; third from left, Theodora Cherrett, President, Pinelands Branch Relief Society; fifth from left, Agnes Hubert, President, Seapoint Branch Relief Society.
Second row, seated third from left, Jean D. Wright, President, South African
Mission Relief Society.
Standing at booth, third from left, May Rayner, chairman of the sewing displays.
Sister Wright reports the following from her mission: "Five of our branches held very successful bazaars in November. Other branches had successful food and

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
207 rummage sales earlier in the year. In addition to the stall, pictured above, this bazaar consisted of cake and candy stalls, fresh produce, toys (mostly old toys made over),
Christmas cards, and a 'white elephant' booth. Light refreshments, lunches, and suppers were served. The bazaar was very successful financially and most of the funds secured will be used for equipping the new Relief Society kitchen which is now under construction at the mission headquarters in Cape Town."
Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond
NORTHERN STATES MISSION, ONEIDA (WISCONSIN), BRANCH RELIEF
SOCIETY MEMBERS AT WORK CANNING APPLE SAUCE
In circle, at front, left to right: Arylss Schliewie; Vivian Schliewie; Velorc Millhieser; Cora Dovstator; Sarah King; Elsie Webster; LaVern House; Ella Henderson.
Standing at back, left to right: Elder Norman L. Howell; Margaret Powless; Celinda Webster; Bertha King.
Sister Elna P. Haymond, former president. Northern States Mission Relief Society, reports that in each of the seven districts in her mission great progress has been made. "Singing
Mothers groups have been organized in all the districts, and at the Relief Society conferences, held semi-annually in each district, these songsters contributed much to the spirit of the meeting." Assisting Sister Zappey in the Relief Society work are the following sisters: Maatje M. D. Schouten; Ehzabeth Muyer; Willemiena Wedemeyer;
Maria A. van Zeben."
Photograph submitted by Lola M. Shumway
PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), MARICOPA INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETY
WOMEN MAKING A QUILT
At right end of the quilt, seated, facing the camera: LaSalle Sundust, the first convert in this branch.
In rear, seated: Brother Harry Sundust and daughter Marion, with baby, also members of the branch.
Lola M. Shumway is president of Maricopa Stake Relief Society.

LESSON
DEPARTMENT
O/heoiogy^ — The Life and Ministry of the Savior
0r
Lesson 23— ''The Close of Our Lord's Public Ministry
Elder Don B. Colton
(Reference: /esus the Christ, Chapter 31, by Elder James E. Talmage)
For Tuesday, April 4, 1950
Objective: To convince the prayerful student that Jesus is the Lord, by a careful analysis of his masterly teaching during the period which closed his public ministry.
A Conspiiacy of Pharisees and Hewdians
TT is necessary to recall conditions in Jerusalem during the period we are about to study. The Jewish authorities were all united in their efforts to take the life of Jesus. He knew that. He knew that the cross awaited him within a few days and that the words he spoke would be quoted for centuries yet to come.
He was pleading for the salvation of God's children everywhere. He knew the hearts of his opponents.
The Pharisees were counseling as to ''how they might entangle him in his talk" (Matt. 22:15). They joined with their own enemies— the Herodians— in an attempt to find some infringement of either the Jewish or Roman law on which they could charge Jesus with disloyalty. A delegation of men who had not appeared against him was chosen to work out the plan. They sought to entangle him in his talk. This hypocritical group came asking the question:
. . . Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man:
Page 48 for thou regardest not the person of men.
Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou?
Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not? (Matt. 22:16-17).
The student will see at once how subtle and adroit were the questions. These spies used flattering words in paying tribute to the Lord's courage. However, they had chosen, with evil craftiness, the manner of approach for there was nothing more offensive to the Jews than paying poll tax to the Romans. They thought Jesus was in a dilemma and would offend either the Jews or Romans whichever way he answered. ''But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said. Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?'' Then calling for a Roman coin, ". . . he saith unto them. Whose is this image and superscription?" They could only reply, "Caesar's." ". . . Then saith he unto them. Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's" (Matt. 22:18-21). That saying has become an aphorism almost everywhere. The Pharisees and Herodians were silenced by the

LESSON DEPARTMENT
49 wisdom of the Lord's reply to their crafty questions. Caesar should be given the coins upon which his image was stamped but ''God should be given the souls that bear his image." The king of Israel had no earthly ambition; his mission was to save souls.
Sadducees Question About the Resurrection
The Sadducees then took their turn in trying to entrap the Lord.
They did not believe in the resurrection and framed their question to discredit that doctrine. They said unto him:
Master, Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. Now there were with us seven brethren: and the first, when he had married a wife, deceased, and, having no issue, left his wife unto his brother: Likewise the second also, and the third, unto the seventh. And last of all the woman died also.
Therefore in the resurrection whose wife shall she be of the seven? for they all had her (Matt. 22:24-28).
They had stated a case coming within the provision of the Mosaic law.
The writer of these lessons believes that the incident itself sustains a great principle of the gospel, as revealed in this day. The enemies of the Lord were all trying to "entangle him in his talk.*' If he had not been talking to them on the principle of the eternity of the maniage covenant, why the question and why the answer? They evidently had understood he was talking of marriage or why did they ask ''in the resurrection whose wife shall she be?" Then note his answer: ". . . Ye do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God" [the Priesthood]. Then he continued: "For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are g