[Learned by Heart by Elizabeth Waters]

Learned by Heart Elizabeth Waters When I have memorized the lines Of mountains rising to the sun, And learned by heart the sound of pines, And all the ways that rivers run, I still shall not remember quite The spell that on this valley lies, When autumn turns its wheat fields white And high at night the wild goose flies. The hills are brown, and gold the trees; I shall recall, when far away, Each trivial detail of these, Yet grieve to half forget this day. An Apple for the 'Teacher Lydia Bennett Egbert RS.
Bently had just finished Me breakfast dishes. She dried her hands and drew aside the crisp ruffled curtain from the window to watch the school children surging by, and yearned a little when she recalled the years when her own had been among the happy throng on that always excitable, first day of school. Gradually, the sound of clattering feet and merry laughter faded away, and Mrs.
Bently might have turned from the window had her eye not caught sight of her thriving young apple tree standing bright and green against the white picket fence.
Only in its fourth year, it was already beginning to bear, and the dozen apples that she had watched with anticipation all through the summer months now hung ripe and red. "T''d better pick them soon," she mused, smiling to herself, while her eyes rested upon one big, shining beauty that hung low over the fence. "They may find their way to the teacher's desk." A small boy rounded the corner at that moment, and paused beneath the branch holding the big, red apple, upon which her eyes rested. She glanced at the clock. "Hum, five minutes to nine.
Wonder why the child's late?
Strange his mother wouldn't see to it that he was early on the first day." For a long moment the boy stood gazing at the apple, then ran swiftly on his way. — "Tl pick the apples today," she decided, turning from the window. "Tt isn't fair to tempt children, anyway." But there was a cake to bake for the cooked-food sale, cookies for the children's party, and peaches to can for Mrs. Adams, not to mention a dozen other odd jobs.
There was no time left in which to pick the apples that day.
Perhaps it was curiosity that took Mrs.
Bently to her window at the same time the next morning, again to watch the gay panorama and to linger until it had dwindled to the last few stragglers.
Could be that he came early this morning and [| failed to recognize him among the other children, she thought, and was about to return to her household duties when the little late-comer made his appearance. She moved closer to rest her elbows on the sill of the window and watched with interest. It was quite evident that, at first sight, the lone apple on the overhanging branch had made its impression, for now the boy had no trouble in spotting it immediately, and with hands in his pockets he stood with eyes fixed upon the bright object above him. As she stood looking intently upon the scene before her, her mind wandered back. Ah, her own little Polly and Phil, how they had loved to tote apples to the teacher! It hadn't been easy, either.
They had had no apple tree growing in their back yard then, and fresh fruits had been a rare treat for them in winter. The "depression" had been  590 at its peak, and Tom had worked only part time.
Feeding a family and making ends meet was a problem, indeed. But, even so, they had been happy. She had Tom then.
They found joy in scheming and planning together, she and Tom. And their two beloved children had given them many a moment of laughter and thrills. GHE blinked her eyes to release an unwelcome tear and the smile that flickered across her face chased it on down to rest on the bosom of her fresh gingham dress. She was reminded of the time when Polly came home with a beautiful rosy apple, a reward for helping the teacher straighten up after school, and proudly placed it on the shelf of the cupboard for Daddy's lunch. And small brother Phil, on his way out the next morning, innocently, had collected it, and for the second time it found its way to the teacher's desk. She and Tom had laughed and joked about it, but Polly never knew.
With a deep sigh of tenderness, Mrs.
Bently laid aside her golden thoughts again to concentrate upon the little stranger within her gaze. "He's looking so wistfully!
Bless his dear heart! I'll call to him that it's all right to take the apple." Unconsciously, she spoke aloud. Then, as a small hand reached upward, she began censuring herself for having waited so long to allow the first seed of temptation to be sown in the young heart. But a moment later she stood amazed, realizing that the child had only smoothed the apple carefully, before taking to. His heels to make up for lost time. |: } 
For special reasons, Mrs. Bently 'made no attempt to pick her apples that day. The next morning her dishes were left standing in the sink later than usual, while in the back yard she busied herself among her flower beds, picking the bright blooms and arranging them in a silver-trimmed wicker basket. "Good morning, Sonny,' she called casually, as the object of her curiosity came into view and made his usual stop beneath the apple tree. "A little late this morning, aren't you?" The boy jumped in surprise and turned to face her. "G—good moring, Ma'am," he stammered. "Yes, I'm always a little late, but I make it 'before the bell rings." But his mind was not to be distracted for long from his main interest. "Are these your apples, Ma'am?" he asked, turning abruptly and again casting his eyes upward. "Why, yes.
Would you like to take that big, red one to your teacher?" The boy's face lighted up and his voice quivered with excitement. "Oh, yes, Ma'am. I'd sure like to take an apple to the teacher. But —but," he continued, his tones suddenly lowering and his mood growing serious, "it—it was Nancy I was really thinking about." Mrs.
Bently detected the note of seriousness in his voice and spoke softly, "Is Nancy your baby sister?" "Well, Nancy isn't really a baby, Ma'am. She's almost as old as me, but she's been sick for a long time and has to stay in bed, and I sort of look out for her." 4 "T'm very sorry your sister is sick," 'she answered, sympathetically. "But I must say she's a lucky little girl AN APPLE FOR THE TEACHER
591 to have a brother who looks after her. What is your name, and where do you hve?"
"My name's Jimmy Mason, and I hve over by the mill in that old house without any paint. Mom says maybe when I get old enough to help out we can have a better house."
''What about your Daddy?"
"Oh, my Dad's dead. We had a better house before he died, but Mom couldn't make enough to pay so much rent, so we had to move."
"Your mother works, then?"
"Yes, she goes to work at night, after me and Nancy's asleep, and don't get home till nearly eightthirty in the morning. That's why I always come late to school."
"Do you have any relatives or friends near?"
"No, my aunt and uncle used to live here, but they moved away right after Dad died and we don't have anybody now. Mom says she don't have time to find friends and, anyway, she says our house is too shabby and nobody'd want to come there."
"It isn't so much the house that counts, Jimmy, it's the people who live in it. But perhaps you'd better run along now," she suggested kindly, "or you may not make it this time before the bell rings."
"Oh, gee, yes, I almost forgot . . ."
His words faded; he ran swiftly on and vanished from sight at the next corner.
Gathering the basket of flowers in her arms, Mrs. Bently made her way across the green stretch to the house and into the living room. She arranged the basket at the foot of the mantel and sank, for a few moments, into the easy chair beside her, before beginning her day's routine. As she looked about the cheery, well-furnished room, a feeling of gratitude swept over her, and she wished that all those less fortunate might enjoy the same comforts.
Tom had left her a good home; with the insurance and other securities, she was amply provided for.
True, Tom's death, and then the children's marrying and settling in distant towns, had left her lonely.
But it was not for long. With so much to be done in the world, one could not lose herself to grief and loneliness for any length of time.
"There's enough happiness in the world for everybody, and life is kind to those who search for it," she repeated to herself. as she motioned the boy toward her.
"Have you a few moments to spare,
Jimmy?"
"Yes, Ma'am, I think I have. The teacher let us out early this afternoon." He came near and paused outside the fence.
Mrs. Bently unlocked the gate and pushed it ajar. "Come inside.
Are you a good climber, Jimmy?
I'd like to get you to help me pick my apples."
The boy's face beamed as he slid through the gate. "Oh, gee!
I'd like to help you pick your apples, Ma'am. I'm used to chmbin' trees. I climb the big ones over by our house and Nancy watches me through the window." He straightened his shoulders proudly and shoved both hands in his pockets.
{Continued on page 642)

Sixty LJears Kyigo
Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September i, and September 15, 1890
"For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations"
JOHN HOWARD PAYNE: The music of the future may be enriched by the products of men of more genius, learning, and wisdom than those of today, but it is safe to say that so long as the world stands there will never again be produced a song that will so universally touch the human heart as "Home, Sweet Home." The most notable rendition of "Home, Sweet Home" of which there is any account, was probably at the Jenny Lind concert in Washington on the night of December 17, 1850. John
Howard Payne was present, and the quarter of an hour during which he listened to THE SONG OF THE SEA
The song of the sea was an ancient song
In the days when the earth was young;
The waves were gossiping loud and long
Ere mortals had found a tongue.
The heart of the waves with wrath was wrung,
Or soothed to a siren strain.
As they tossed the primitive isles among
Or slept in the ocean main.
Such was the song and its changes free,
Such was the song of the sea.
— Richard E. Burton
OUR COUNTRY
Our thought of thee is glad with hope
Dear country of our love and prayers;
Thy way is down no fatal slope.
But up to freer sun and airs.
With peace that comes of purity.
And strength to simple justice due;
So runs our loyal dream of thee:
God of our fathersi make it true.
—J. G. Whittier
HUNTER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY: Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of being present at the first organizations of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and of being intimately acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and testified that all the principles he taught were true, and would benefit the human family. Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the grand results achieved through the organization of women, also upon true charity, and the disposition to look upon the bright side, referred to the days of famine and of sickness, the trials of the Saints in Nauvoo and in Winter Quarters and thought for many reasons we ought to be grateful notwithstanding the persecutions of the present time, for the Lord had greatly prospered us in these valleys. Page 592 OST of the winners in the League of Utah Writers contests this year are contributors to The Relief Society Magazine.
Included are Olive W. Burt, who won first place in the short story and first in the juvenile story; Rosa Lee Lloyd, who placed second in the short story; Anna Prince Redd, with second place in the article; Christie Lund Coles and Dorothy Roberts who placed first and second in poetry; Sarah Moss and Mabel Harmer, who received second and third places in the juvenile story. RS. LeROY McBRIDE, of Hytum, Utah, herself housebound for eleven years, organized in Utah the state-wide campaign for observance of Shut-in's Day. It was held on the first Sunday in June, when shut-ins were to be remembered with visits, letters, flowers, homemade delicacies, or other thoughtful expressions. She won the co-operation of Governor Lee, of many mayors, newspapers, women's clubs, radio, and church officials. Her efforts won her the third prize of the national Rhoda Corwin Pickens annual award for successful organizing for Shut-in's Day. ONE of the oldest books on our American Continent, the Popal Vuh (book of the people), which Ramona W. Cannon preserves historical facts, legends, religious tenets, and the customs of the Quiche Maya Indians, has now been made available in English for the first time through a translation from Spanish made by Delia Goetz, an authority on Latin American languages, history, and tradition, and Sylvanus G. Morley, another scholar. They translated it from the Spanish of Adrian Recinos, who, in turn, had translated it from a copy in Latin characters but in the Mayan language made by Father Ximenez, an early Guatemalan priest, from a similar copy written in the middle of the sixteenth century by an educated Indian. The Indian's copy was lost. Fortunately,
Father Ximinez's copy remained.
This is a most important original source for students of early American Indian culture.
TINNY LEE NELSON, of Salt
^ Lake City, married to V.
Douglas Snow, recently won a prize of $500 in a textile design contest sponsored by the Moss
Rose Manufacturing Company of New York. Her young husband has won a Fulbright scholarship to study art in Italy this year. While he works, she will continue studying, specializing in Italian textiles and ceramic designs.
Page 593

EDITORIAL
VOL. 37 SEPTEMBER 1950 NO. 9 jyi ANY women whose grandmoth- permit weak men and wicked men ers and great-grandmothers to attain high office, we can no worked earnestly for the privilege of longer control our destinies. Power, voting have become indifferent to in the hands of the ambitious and their responsibilities. Only a small the ungodly, can and will enslave percentage of women vote in their individuals and destroy nations, city, state, and national elections. As Latter-day Saint women, we
They fail to realize that the per- have a particular responsibility topetuation of liberty and our right to ward government. We know that choose our rulers, our religion, our freedom of conscience and "life, work, and our place of residence, all liberty, and the pursuit of happiare in grave jeopardy, from deter- ness" are inherent rights, and that mined and organized opposition our Constitution, which upholds both within our own country and these rights, was established under from possible foreign intervention, the inspiration of God. In words of In this time of rapid change, with simplicity and strength, we have the dark shadow of regimentation been instructed and we know that and autocratic rule spreading ever "that which is governed by law is wider across the world, no man, and also preserved by law." no woman, who has the precious Section 134 of the Doctrine and right to vote, can be excused for Covenants, which deals with "Govnot exercising this most important ernment and Laws in General," responsibility, upon which so much specifically points out that we depends. should use our influence to see that Many of the privileges and op- our public officials are "such as will portunities most dear to us as Lat- administer the law in equity and ter-day Saint women might become justice." non-existent if we, and others, fail Are we accepting and magnifying to exercise our votes and retain this high and important duty? As that liberty which is God-given. It election day approaches, do we make would be easy to lose our right to sure that we are qualified to be votrear our children in the way of the ers and, when election day arrives, gospel, to lose even the opportunity are we too busy or too indifferent of holding Church services and re- to perform that great responsibility taining our Church organization, upon which nearly all the other
It would be easy to allow our in- phases of our lives depend? stitutions of government to become Perhaps the most common exinstruments of oppression, regi- cuse for failing to vote is that one men ting every phase of life. If we vote is unimportant. This is subter-
Page 594

EDITORIAL 595 fuge, for the total vote is made up of her civic responsibility may wish of individual ballots, and each vote to attend meetings at which the expresses the sovereign will of an in- candidates speak, or she may wish, dividual, and is as important as any in local cases, where this is feasible, other vote. to talk personally with the man,
Another excuse may be that we or woman who is to represent her are not acquainted with the people in the all-important work of governwhose names are on the ballots, ment.
There are many ways of finding out Ability and integrity are qualities about these people. If we have been that we should demand in our repalert to civic affairs, we shall prob- resentatives. Their attitude toward ably already know something of the our Constitution and toward law enrecords of the men and women who forcement is paramount. Their dediare seeking re-election. If we know cation to high ideals and their earnnothing of the new names appear- estness of purpose should be careing, we should find out before elec- fully considered, tion day what type of people these Freedom and liberty are easy to candidates are, and what principles los e, but they are not easy to regain once they are gone. Let us not be careless with our precious heritage.