THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - President

Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor

Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor

Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer

Achsa E. Paxman

Leone G. Layton

Lillie C. Adams

Alta J. Vance

Mary G. Judd

Blanche B. Stoddard

Ethel C. Smith

Christine H. Robinson

Anna B. Hart

Evon W. Peterson

Louise W. Madsen

Alberta H. Christensen

Edith S. Elliott

Leone O. Jacobs

Aleine M. Young

Nellie W. Neal

Florence J. Madsen

Mary J. Wilson

Josie B. Bay

Vol. 37 SEPTEMBER 1950 No. 9

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (3 segments, 17,255 chars) ===

Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class Matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Half-size dress eliminates costly alterations $7.98 This smart new Autumn dress is ready to go the minute you slip into it! Fits as if it were tailor-made for your figure! Black with white flecks. Half sizes 16 1/2 to 24 1/2. ZCMI READY TO WEAR DOWNSTAIRS STORE Josef Muench THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 37, NO. 

9 SEPTEMBER 1950

 For Early Autumn Berta H. Christensen Do not listen and do not look At this branch of flaming filigree, Not a single glance at the spheres of gold That are clustered weights on the apple tree. Though your hand be sworn and your word be given, Your heart betrothed in solemn pledge, Now that the leaves are dream-ghosts driven Like splintered stars on a granite ledge, Be wary, the net of the harvest moon Silvers its weaving with many a token Of sound and flame to ensnare a heart, And a pledge might be lost or easily broken. Autumn is here in auras of amber, Sapphire-veiled, this lovely late-comer. Oh, do not look and do not listen, You who are betrothed to summer! The Cover: Aspens at Cedar Breaks, Utah, Photograph by Josef Muench. 'And They Shall Also Teach Their Children'' GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT THROUGH THE Famity Hour Christine H. Robinson Member, Relief Society General Board N these latter days the Lord has again emphasized a fundamental of successful living which is as old as the human race itself. In November, 1831, through his chosen Prophet, Joseph Smith, the Lord instructed his people that " they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." He also said, "For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion" (D. & C. 68:28, 26). The family unit and the obligations of parents to children and of children to parents have ever been a subject of concern and instruction from God-inspired men. One of the Ten Commandments given to Moses for the guidance of Israel was, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee" (Ex. 20:12). The apostle Paul, in his letter to the Ephesians, stressed the importance of the family unit and admonished children to obey their parents and to honor their fathers and mothers. And to the parents he said, "And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord" (Eph. 6:4). Much of the unhappiness in the world today and many of its ills are the direct result of man's failure to heed these instructions. In many Page 580 great countries millions of God's children have been persuaded to the evil belief that the government is all-important, and that the Godgiven rights and interests of individuals and of family groups must be bent to the will of the State. Furthermore, all over the world, the bonds of marriage and the sanctity of home life are being violated. 'Today, in the United States, the rate has risen to such heights that more than one marriage out of every four ends in failure, resulting in the devastating effects of broken homes and divided parenthood. Recognizing the seriousness of this basic problem, leaders of our Church have given inspired instructions to Latter-day Saints of this day in regard to strengthening of the - family unit. The members of the Lord's Church in these latter days must show the way and set the example which will strengthen man's faith in himself and make more firm the sanctity of the home. Our Church leaders have long known that one of the best ways of teaching children to honor their parents, and of encouraging parents to rear their children in righteousness, is through family prayer and through family-group activities. One of the most effective ways of stimulating these activities is through the familyplanned "Family Hour." "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" HE Relief Society is highly honored with the assignment and the responsibility given it by the General Authorities to encourage all Latter-day Saint families to experience the joys and_ satisfactions which come from planned and regularly held Family Hours. The other auxiliaries of the Church, representing different age groups in our families, have joined with the Relief Society in helping to establish and further this Family Hour program. Those families which regularly participate in this program know the extent of individual development and the unity and happiness this activity brings. For example, many parents have had experiences similar to that of one Salt Lake City family of eight members, including six small children, who organized their group on a corporation basis, with each member acting as a stockholder. This family group meets on a scheduled evening twice each month to discuss family affairs and to enjoy the association of one another. At one meeting, the discussion centered around an important event soon to take place—the addition of a new member to the family. The group discussed the expected new arrival, and each member volunteered the help he or she would provide. 'The event was looked forward to with great joy and anticipation and, when the beautiful new baby girl was born, each member of the family sensed a feeling of individual ownership and pride, and the joy experienced in participation went far to establish a firm foundation for solidarity and unity in that family. Thoughtful parents have an abiding interest in the spiritual, intel- 581 lectual, and social growth of their children. Individual participation in regularly held Family Hours can do much to stimulate this growth. It is generally agreed among eminent psychologists that one reason small children often attempt to "showoff," and are difficult to handle in the presence of company, is because their parents have failed to give them ample opportunity to express themselves in normal family relationships. The Family Hour, if properly planned and conducted, can serve as one of the best possible means of encouraging this self-expression. Some Methods of Conducting Family Hours Parents who have the greatest success with their Family Hours do not think of them as regimented or stilted formal meetings. Rather, they use the Family Hour as a means of getting their children together for the purpose of discussing family plans and problems, of socializing as a family group, of organizing special family study programs, of learning more about the gospel, and of developing the art of self-expression. Some specific activities which contribute to successful Family Hour programs include: An evening of good music. Each member contributes with his own talents or with playing favorite records, and with group singing of selected songs and hymns. An evening of games. Most family members, young, or old, enjoy games in which all can participate. To be most effective, these should be planned in advance for maximum variety and group interest. An evening of enjoyable reading. In this activity, reading should 582 be aloud, with as many of the group members as possible participating. Books to be read should be selected wisely for maximum interest and intellectual and spiritual development. This is an excellent opportunity for enjoyment and enlightenment from reading the scriptures. An evening of planned discussion. For subject matter, current articles from Church publications, including The Reliet Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Instructor, The Children's Friend and the "Church Section" of The Deseret News, might be used. A variety of interesting discussion topics can be decided upon by the group. An evening of reminiscing. Extremely interesting Family Hour periods can be built around missionary experiences of father, mother, son, or daughter, and courtship experiences, and other — events. A stimulating evening can grow out of "my most interesting experience" related by each member of the group. A picnic or outing can be effectively used as a part of the Family Hour program. These outside activities can add variety to the family gathering and can do much to hold the group together. HESE are only a few of the many activities which can be employed to make Family Hours appealing and stimulating. Organized family groups will find other ways to develop interesting self-expression: There are, however, four fundamentals which every thoughtful parent will strive to make a part of the Family Hour program. These are: 1.

---

This is subter- EDITORIAL fuge, for the total vote is made up of individual ballots, and each vote expresses the sovereign will of an individual, and is as important as any other vote. Another excuse may be that we are not acquainted with the people whose names are on the ballots. There are many ways of finding out about these people. If we have been alert to civic affairs, we shall probably already know something of the records of the men and women who are seeking re-election. If we know nothing of the new names appearing, we should find out before election day what type of people these candidates are, and what principles they may be expected to support. One way to find this out is to learn of their affiliations with various social, educational, cultural, and civic groups. It is helpful to ask the advice of reputable people who personally know the candidates. The voter who realizes the importance 595 of her civic responsibility may wish to attend meetings at which the candidates speak, or she may wish, in local cases, where this is feasible, to talk personally with the man, or woman who is to represent her in the all-important work of government. Ability and integrity are qualities that we should demand in our representatives. 'Their attitude toward our Constitution and toward law enforcement is paramount. Their dedication to high ideals and their earnestness of purpose should be care-. Fully considered. Freedom and liberty are easy to lose, but their regaining is always difficult, sometimes impossible. If we lose our heritage of individual choice, we are ourselves at fault, and ours is the guilt, unless we magnify our privilege as voters and remain ever alert to the great responsibility of self-government. —V. P. C. IP -— Color of Autumn Beatrice K. Ekman Below the mountain road the farms have spread A colored pattern. Autumn has begun, And native currant bushes have turned red. Brown cockleburs, made brittle by the sun, Sound harsh rustlings by the road, as wind shifts Veils of dust across their sharpened edges. From crumpled milkweed pods, soft, white down drifts To the brown pastures and tawny sedges. Loosed from their anchored roots, the tumbleweeds Drift with the wind, light, silent ghosts at play; Sowing, as they drift, their spiny seeds Across the fields and prairies faraway. Wind weaves smoke through September grasses And purple haze veils the mountain passes... The languorous summer is done. No TO THE FIELD Annual General Relief Society Conference HE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 27 and 28, 1950. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Society and the public are invited. The attendance at the meetings Wednesday and Thursday mornings is limited to stake and mission officers. Buying Sextbooks for Relief Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and the ward should present to the president of the respective organization a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it ls recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase the textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. * ¥ * Influence Josephine J]. Harvey Some of us who walk the earth Are bound by feet of clay, But when you looked at me and smiled, I walked on clouds all day., Page 596 She Practical Nlurse—A Tlew Opportunity Elaine Mellor, R. N. B. S. Director, Practical Nursing, Salt Lake Area Vocational School (CJ )LEASE—Help us find a Practical Nurse." How often has this plea been heard—and gone unanswered? Nursing registries frequently have such calls as this and are unable to help. It is the age-old problem, demand greater than supply. There is a need for more people to enter this field. 'The demand for nursing service is growing steadily and cannot adequately be filled by the number of registered nurses now on duty or in training. "What is a Practical Nurse?" Often we think of a practical nurse as a kindly person, perhaps a next-door neighbor, who has learned a "way" around sick people by working with them. The need for practical nurses is now so acute that formal courses of instruction have been set up in various states, and these people are being educated for the work they do. The people are assured of the right kind of nursing care because the Licensed Practical Nurse receives her title today only upon completion of this formal course of training after which she must pass a state examination.* "What does a Practical Nurse do? The practical nurse learns to give complete bedside care, to make the patient comfortable. She learns techniques in preventing the spread of communicable diseases, how to amuse the convalescing child, how to care for the new mother and her baby. Emphasis is placed upon the care of the patient in the home—preparation of the proper diet, and how to safely adapt improvised equipment to the needs of the patient. The practical nurse should not be expected to care for critically or acutely ill patients. Her training does not prepare her to perform highly skilled treatments. She functions here as a valuable assistant to the professional staff by relieving them of nursing duties which do not require an extensive scientific background. Practical Nursing offers a wonderful opportunity for many women who may be looking for a job with a future. There are opportunities for her to work in the home, in the doctor's office, and in other places where she works under the supervision of a licensed physician or a professional nurse. *A practical nurse is a person trained to care for subacute, convalescent, and chronic patients requiring nursing services at home or in an institution, who works under the direction of a licensed physician or a registered professional nurse, and who is prepared to give household assistance w

---

However, as this unusual offer may be withdrawn at any time, we urge you to mail the coupon NOW! FAMILY READING CLUB Mineola, New York Your 'College grade" courses in education offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00 Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE L. D. S. Missionary Edition $9.25, Others $1.75 to $20.00 Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING," by Constance Talbot $2.90 Literature: The Literature of England Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL. I by Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: "The Progress of Man" Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN." by Joseph Fielding Smith $2.25 — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers OCTOBER 1950 e Li] pm} Cc 3 = o cel " ec o " " ) at a 0 VOL. 37 NO.

=== EXTRACTED ADS ===