[Work Meeting: Draperies and Curtains by Christine H. Robinson]

Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Draperies and Curtains Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, December 12, 1950 (Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot, chapters 38, 39, 40, 41, 44.) urtains and draperies play a major role in the entire decorating scheme of your home.
Simply by recurtaining windows you can completely transform the appearance and spirit of aroom. The right win- LESSON DEPARTMENT dow decoration can make your windows and your room appear larger or smaller, or your room's ceiling higher or lower. 'There is no other place in the decorating of your home where you can so quickly achieve gratifying results.
Your window decorations should express your own tastes and preferences, but, in addition, they should be the foundation through which you portray the entire character of your home. You may wish your room to express a quiet, restful atmosphere, or you may wish to express a hospitable air.
Whatever the spirit, your curtains will do much to set the pattern for the rest of your home decorating. By following a few simple guides in your selection of curtain and drapery materials, you can do much to create a harmonious and pleasant room ensemble. First, make sure curtain and drapery materials are suitable to the character, physical structure, and purpose of the room.
Coarse homespun and rough textured fabrics are generally informal in feeling and should be used in informal rooms.
Small provincial patterns, plaids, and most stripes with clear, warm, bright colors, express an informal spirit, and blend with inormal furniture and furnishings. Satins, damasks, taffetas, and velvets with classic patterns, large floral prints, formal stripes and geometrics, on the other hand, express formality and should be used in the more formal rooms. Rich, full-bodied colors, too, lean toward the formal, and generally blend more harmoniously with furniture of delicate rather than massive lines. 633
The physical structure of your room, also, has a direct bearing upon the fabrics you should use. If your room is small, you can give it a more spacious feeling by using curtain materials in solid colors or small prints that blend rather than contrast with the walls. Bold patterns or sharp contrasts in color in draperies, make a room look smaller. If the room is large, you can use a drapery material of bright color and bold pattern. Vertical stripes in window decorations accent height and make a low ceilinged room appear higher. High ceilings, on the other hand, can appear to be brought down by right use of horizontal stripes, provided, of coutse, they are in character with the rest of the room. The second important guide in making your windows attractive is to be generous in the amounts of materials used. Draperies that are too narrow or too short, and curtains that fail to cover the window, attract unfavorable attention and spoil the entire effect of a room. To stay within your budget it is far better to use adequate amounts of less costly materials than to try to dress your windows with skimpy, expensive fabrics. A bit of looking and a little imagination on your part will help you find many interesting and colorful possibilities in materials, such as muslin (bleached and unbleached), chambray, percale, calico, sateen, denim, corduroy, Indian head, shantung, and gingham. Many of these may provide your room with just the effect it needs at a cost well within your budget. 

634  A third guide, if you want your window materials to be most attractive, is to make sure they are the right length. Glass curtains, casements, and draperies, except in informal cottages or where there are architectural problems, such as a radiator, look best if they are about one-fourth inch from the floor. If yours is an informal room and you prefer shorter lengths, be sure the materials come either just to the sill or to the bottom of the window apron. Curtains and draperies should never be hung to the top of the baseboard or to any other awkward, in-between length. Only in the most formal rooms should draperies fold out onto the floor. Trailing draperies soil quickly and give most rooms an overdressed look. Valances and cornices help to unify and complete your window treatment. They do much to set the character of a room. Swags, jabots, and cascades are formal in nature and should be used only in rooms expressing formality. Ruffled, pleated, or scalloped valances and simple cornices, painted or covered with material, can be used effectively in almost any type of room. If the room is dark you should avoid a deep valance which would cut into the light. On the other hand, you can create an illusion of height with a valance or cornice by projecting it above the top of the window. Valances and cornices, when properly used, add a pleasing touch to a window. You can make your home reflect your individuality most simply and effectively through your window decoration. Your draperies and curtains will be attractive and in good taste, if you select a suitable fabric, use it generously, be sure your curtains and draperies are the right length, and see that their colors tie in with the rest of your room's color scheme., Discussion Points 1. Discuss the thought that curtains and draperies help set the character of your room. 2. Discuss ways of handling various types of windows: windows off balance, too narrow, too high, or too low. (See textbook, chapter 38.) 3. Discuss the many points to watch in making professional looking curtains and draperies. (See textbook, chapters 39 and 40.) 4. Discuss the importance of durability of curtain and drapery fabrics, those that are washable or sunfast, etc. For instructions in measuring and making curtains and draperies, see textbook, chapters 39, 40, 41. | 5. Discuss various ways of adapting old curtains and draperies to new windows. (See textbook, chapter 44.)