VOL. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1886.	NO. 16.


A TRIBUTE OF MEMORY.

WRITTEN TO THE MEMBERS OF THE CHOIR OF THE
	FIFTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY.

Do you think I've forgotten, oh friends of long years,
Of my brightest and happiest days,—
That your faces are dimmed by the shadows and tears,
Of the joys of a wanderer's ways?
Forget the warm hand clasp of friendship so true,
The smile and kind greeting of all?
No! the ties of affection that strengthened and grew
Must last till the Master's call.
Forget "Oh, my Father," as sung by our choir,
Or "Maggie" and "Sarah," "Janet" and "Ure?"
These were written for us tuned on "Tom's Golden Lyre,"
And with "Ashton" and "Morgan" for aye will endure.
In spring's balmy hours and summer's fierce heat,
And when autumn leaves covered the ground,
And in cold, wintry blasts still gladly we met,
To the call of the organ's sweet sound.
And, "Henry," oh, cherish and prize well your gift
Of music, 'tis sent from above,
From earth's care and rust your soul it will lift
Unto regions of glory and love.
The "Lights by the Shore," oh, I see them again,
And "Sabbath Bells" joyfully ring.—
Be still, oh, my heart, cease, cease this wild pain,
For with God and His ransomed our Nellie doth sing
On the "Bright Golden Shore;" oh, forgive these last tears,
For you sang her farewell while so silent she lay,
With her crown of sweet flowers, she who gladened the
	years,
And I thank thee, I thank thee for singing that day;
In my heart's sacred chambers, oft memory will turn
To that Sleeper, the singer, the song's gentle strain,
Though crushed are the flowers and broken the urn,
Their sweet fragrance eternal must ever remain.
Forget not the absent who mingled with you
In the joys and the sorrows gone bye;
Sweet memories flowers my pathway will strew,
Immortelles, for they never can die.
In the "sweet bye and bye" may we all meet again,
And renew the fond ties of the past,
And sing to His praise in one glad refrain,
And in joy that forever will last.
									HOPE.


[Column 1]

CRAWFORD'S GLEN.

	About eight miles (Irish miles, which are
almost longer than the English) from Bel-
fast, is the little village of Crawfordsburn. It
consists of a few houses of primitive architec-
tural style, built together along the road for
a distance of forty or fifty rods on one side
and the same length on the other, only the
homes of the goodfolk on the latter side are
more detached. Whatever changes occur in
the appearance of the village, which is named
from its proximity to one of the Crawford
estates, are so gradual as to provoke few ex-
clamations of surprise, though their rarity sub-
ject them to more than general scrutiny. I
should have said the village seems to take its
name from the Crawford's estate hard by; but
for some unaccountable reason, or rather, for
no reason whatever, the word "burn," which
follows the name Crawford, instead of convey-
ing the idea that it is Crawford's village, means
literally Crawford's stream or brook. A "burn"
is a small stream; and as one flows through the
estate it has been given the name of the family.
The presumption is that the few cottages
which now claim a postoffice, growing up in
the vicinity of the "burn," have gradually ap-
propriated, or been accorded, the name of the
sweet little brook that winds its way through


[Column 2]

the Crawford estate until its complaining
waters mingle with those of the ocean about a
mile distant. The village has a wide reputa-
tion for two reasons: It is on the estate of the
Earl of Dufferin, now Viceroy of India, and
it has taken the name of Sherman Crawford,
a man whose broad and liberal, yet conserva-
tive views regarding the policy that should be
pursued toward his native land, were far riper
than the times in which he lived. If his shade
is alive to the events now transpiring in the
"Green Isle of the Ocean," he may enjoy the
consciousness of knowing how largely instru-
mental he has been in contributing to whatever
of recent liberality the English government
has accorded his countrymen. He is really
the father of "The Tenants' Rights Act," whose
beneficial effects were not known until some
years after his body had been laid beneath the
green sod. The village has a local reputation
for three reasons: It is near the shore of the
Belfast Lough, reputed to rival the beauty of
Lake Geneva, and is the center of some of the
most charming country in the north of Ireland;
it has one of the neatest, cleanest and cosiest
little inns in the three kingdoms; and lastly, it
nestles on the verge of a glen whose beauty,
once seen, is never to be forgotten. It is this
glen—the Glen of Crawfordsburn—that gives
to the village such fame as it may enjoy, this
that attracts the tourist, and, during summer,
makes it the scene of visitation by hundreds
in search of natural beauty or a day's peace-
able recreation.
	Though I have seen it times without number,
I well remember the first walk I took through
its winding length since the mystery of time
effaced the more acute recollections which child-
hood gives to all. A lingering sense of some-
thing once known, not unlike the sensation one
has when his feelings rather than his mind
seem to recall a dream so fully forgotten that
even the dim outlines no longer remain—an
indefinite, undefinable consciousness of forgot-
ten pleasures—floated through the mind, but
left little, if anything, to which one could pin
even the thread of a recollection. As morning
dawned the murmur of waters falling close by,
was the first of many indistinct sensations that
confusedly passed through my half-waking
dreams. I saw myself long years ago stand-
ing beside a waterfall heaped about with an
abundance of richest green and the sounds
that pleasantly disturbed [--] [---]t seemed to
possess a strange, a fascinating naturalness. I
could also see the half-threatening yet kindly
glance of one whose injunctions I had dis-
obeyed by wandering from a given spot; still,
all was vague and uncertain. When half-way
down the Glen a strong tide of recollection
sweeps o'er the heart. The ocean breeze
freighted with the odor of sea-weed and sub-
dued by the mild breath of a tardy spring,
wafted the wind over the gulf of intervening
years, and in a moment all became strangely
familiar. I had inhaled every breeze from
Yew York to England, drank in the gales
along the coast of Scotland, and scented every
zephyr from the land of thistles and heather to
that of the Shamrock and St. Patrick, for that
peculiar odor of land and wave which lingered
in my mind like the perfume of a delicious
flower recalled strongly after long years, and
had never found it until now.
	It was a spring day, but so early, or rather,
spring was so late, that no tree had yet begun
to put forth its leaves. A yellowish cast in the


[Column 3]

brown of the grass foretold a rising green, the
long, oval leaf of the laurel, which yields its
place only when forced to make room for the
new ones that annually succeed it, already
strewed the ground. From under the thick
covering of fast decaying foliage the green
stems of a wild flower were beginning timidly
to appear; but of the prevailing green which
tells that spring is truly present, there was
barely a trace.  Still, it was beautiful. The
monotony of death was relieved by the green
of the ivy which, from the ground far up,
closely encircled the trunks of noble trees,
whose denuded branches stood out skeleton-like,
clearly dark against the blue sky. There was
an abundance of moss. There always is, but
it is never so beautiful as in winter. I have
watched the tender leaf come to full growth,
seen the fair flowers of spring yield to the
deeper and richer bloom of summer, these, in
turn, succeeded by the brown tints and fewer
blossoms of autumn, and then all covered with
the snows of winter, and never gazed upon it
when it was not a scene of surpassing loveli-
ness.
	Above the village road, about a stone's
throw, is a dam, which feeds an old flour mill
that has lately been converted into one for
sawing up trees which have ceased to be useful
for purposes ornamental and to give place to
those of younger growth. Ten second's walk
takes one into the Glen, having passed through
an old gateway, on the right hand side of
which is a solid stone wall. Through this wall
a branch of escalonia, or wild fuchsia, as thick
as a man's wrist, has forced its way, from
which early in June, and on even into Novem-
ber, a profusion of coral pendants with pur-
ple centres, hung within easy reach. I have
seen the thin arms of the wild rose, whose
flowers were of spotless white, run through
and through the escalonia branches and min-
gle its white bloom with the red and purple of
its rival of the wall, until it stole so much of
that rival's coral hue as cast a blush of inef-
able tenderness over its own petals. The mill,
while not ruined, is, nevertheless, partially
moss grow and ivy hidden. As soon as it has
been passed is one fairly in the Glen. Three
waterfalls are near it. A small one almost at
its edge, a larger one some thirty feet farther
down, and one, in size between these two, still
lower. Between the second and third falls, a
[-]astic bridge spans the stream, which is reached
by a steep bridle path. Directly below the
last fall is a fair plat of green (in the midst of
which stands a tall and graceful tree) formed
by the burn which sweeps to the right in a
pleasing curve. At the point where the stream
again turns to the left is a rustic seat, o'erhung
with laurel and beech, from which the three falls,
the rustic bridge, the dense undergrowth of
laurel, hazle, boxwood and beech, the fringing
of grass, the bloom of the milk white and pink
thorne and the nobler trees, present a picture
to the eye such as is never to be forgotten.
The little stream, dashed into foam, pours
headlong over each successive fall, half-cover-
ing the jutting rocks, (now deeply bedded with
waves) which interrupt its flow, and then glides
away as though ashamed, of the tumult it had
created. Many an artist have I seen endeav-
oring to pen down its changing beauties and
reproduce them on the faulty canvas. For
the greater part of the Glen two paths lead
down one on the right hand side of the stream,
and one on the left. When summer comes,with


[Column 1]
﻿its wealth of foliage, its shade is fascinating;
and as the branches of the varied trees sway
to the wind, delightful glimpses of grass fields
o’er which the sun pours its generous radiance,
fill the expectant with inexpressible pleasure.
The stream winds quietly about after it leaves
the falls. A little over half way down, a
superb railroad viaduct, which spans the Glen,
seems, with its fine arches through which one
passes, to add to its romantic charm, if any
evidence of civilization can do so; and from
this point the Glen widens out, and there are
fine prospects of wooded hills on one side, and
of grass plot softer than any carpet on the
other. The hills to the left, the top of which
could not be seen before because of the density
of the foliage, are low and rolling and de-
crease as one follows the stream. A broad
gravel road begins at the confluence of the
Glen “burn” with another stream a short dis-
tance below the viaduct. Still following the
stream a quarter of a mile down the Glen,
paths which by this time had converged into
one, and the graveled road also meet, and
winding around a low knoll, the ocean bursts
into full view. And it is a magnificent sight
—from the secluded, half-brine sensation which
the Glen gives to the broad and prodigal sweep
of the ocean, upon whose bosom the eye be-
holds trading vessels of all burdens, and in
summer, the tiny white sails of innumerable
yachts. To the right, on a clear day, the low
hills of Scotland are visible, and rising an
adjacent knoll, the summit of many a noble
hill, crowned with a profusion of trees meets
the gladdened eye. Across the Lough, or 
bay, to the left, one gazes upon well filled
fields, (divided by countles hedges) and white
cots and smoke from flying trains, while Car-
rick-fergus, of historical notoriety as having
been the scene of coronation of a Scotchman
as King of Ireland in the 13th century, is also
easily distinguishable. To dwell upon the
endless variety of magnificent scenes which
this wide prospect affords, in the hope of pic-
turing them, were vain; or even to tell of the
never ending colors of the wave (variable and
uncertain as its bosom) as it changes hue with
every breath of wind that ruffles its surface.
But it produces an exultant sense that only
one can know who has felt the conscious gran-
deur which boundless vision inspires—such as a
prospect spread out before him who has stood
upon the summit of some lofty peak in the
Rocky Mountains, or upon a rival chain, and
viewed the boundless range of valley and
mountain, that rolled away from lris feet in
never ending succession, till the eye was
wearied with its limitless flight. I do not
recollect that it ever presented the same ap-
pearance twice. The clear or beclouded heaven,
the varying tide, the presence of numerous or
the total absence of boats or vessels, the pe-
culiarities of light and shadow upon distant
hills, showing on one, in the broad sunlight,
every house and hedg across the Lough, while
the rest were practically indistinguishable; the
striking changes in color which presented them-
selves to view, nay even the indefinite number
of huts of green which lay in fields upon the
broad bosom of the ocean, seemed capable of
interminable variation, though, of course, the
spot and its surroundings were ever the same
features.
	All through the Glen are great numbers of
flowering shrubs. Red, white and pink rho-
dodendrons are among the first, following
which are the king yellow flower of the box
with a perfume so like that of its tender leaves.
The haw or thorne, and the laurel, and the
sloe, their seasons make the air redolent with
delightful odors; while the “meadow sweet”
freights the air with a perfume as subtle as it is
delicate. Amid the green boughs, twittering
birds keep up a ceaseless chatter, interrupted
occasionally by the deep cawing of the

[Column 2]
crow, which echoes through the stillness.
Rustic seats are placed at all points from
which a fine view is to be had; while
the wealth of mosses on the decaying
branches and roots of living trees. The
aspiring ivy hiding in its density, the trunks
of trees as far up as the eye can follow, the
rank growth of ferns, the intermingling of
innumerable wild flowers, beginning in the
spring with the modest primrose and the un-
yielding daisy followed through the season by
the dandelion, Mayflowers, buttercup, peri-
winkle, London pride, and so on, force them-
selves upon attention. One of the choicest
bits is a ruined house in the Glen. It is very
dark and literally buried with moss and ivy.
It is called the “fog” house because of the
depth of moss which hides it, and “fog” is
a name given here to a particular kind of
moss. One is surprised by the great number 
of secluded nooks which everywhere seem to
invite the lover—and lovers are as often sur-
prised by the sudden and unfortunate appear-
ance of others who, like themselves, are in
search of some sequestered spot "for whisper-
ing lovers made.” Many are the dark pools
fringed with long grass and longer ferns and
ivy where the angler looks in vain for trout.
The fallen tree that spans the “burn,” the half
hidden way that leads beneath the overhanging
holly and through tangled laurel and sally and
thorne, to spots of exquisite loveliness, the
miniature precipices, the subdued song of the
ocean mingled with the sobbing of the wind
through umbrageous trees, and the stillness that
one can almost feel, are known to all who love
nature and who have sought her where she
broods in solitary loveliness. Here mid these

	"Green winding walks and shady pathways sweet,"

which my infant steps and maturer feet have
trod, could I dwell forever. Whenever sun-
light shall flood upon wave, or wood-crowned
hill; whenever the songs of birds shall echo
through all-prevailing stillness; when there is
shade and green grass, and moss covered rocks;
when the fragrance of flowers shall float upon
the breeze; when the sound of falling water
begets that sense of ease that sinks deep into
the heart; when the unmurmuring stream runs
darkling awry beneath grass and fern and
overhanging tree; whenever moonlight, flood-
ing the night air, throws its weird and roman-
tic shadows across the deserted walk, or glints
through the dense foliage; when the joyous
songs of happy hearts fill the eventide with
love and rapture, or the silent whisperings of
fond lips breathes tales of love.

"Beneath the milk-white thorne that scents the evening
	gale,"

at such an hour this Glen, and its hallowed
charms, will fill the mind with such bright
scenes as time cannot dim; and bring a sense
of joy and of rest where darkest clouds o’er-
cast life's sky. At such an hour too, will well
up from the heart that old, homely, tender
verse:
	“Could I but feel as with thee I felt,
		Long, long ago; long, long ago;
	Where at thy side in the moonlight I knelt.
		Long, long ago; sweet long ago;
	“Could I meet thee at eve by the stream in the Glen,
		And drink of thine eyes loving sunshine again,
	I might tell thee such tales as I told to thee then,
		Long, long ago; long long ago."
						WANDERING BOY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		VIRGIN CITY, Jan. 9th, 1886.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking it no more than our duty to let
our co-laborers in the Primaries know that we
are still alive, and up to our duties as far as
possible, we send you a brief account of an


entertainment which was given by our Associa-
tion on Christmas day, and which proved to
be quite a success both financially and other-
wise, and for which our little folks are deserv-
ing of great credit. The children, parents,
and all who felt like attending, met at the
meeting house at two o'clock, and after the
usual opening exercises of singing and prayer,
we listened to quite a variety of exercises from
the Association, consisting of songs, dialogues,
recitations, select readings, etc.; all of which
were rendered in a manner which did credit to
our little folks, and showed that they had been
very energetic in preparing themselves with
the parts assigned them. A very pretty song,
entitled, "Santa Claus is coming this way,"
was very nicely sung by our Association choir,
at the close of which the good old gentleman
favored us with a call, and rolled up the cur-
tain from our Christmas tree, which was well
loaded with presents for the little folks; not
one that was a member of the Association had
been forgotten; he also treated them liberally
to candy. The Bishop's Counselors, Elders
Beebe and Burke, were present, and spoke a
short time; expressed themselves as well pleased
with the entertainment; spoke encouragingly
to the children, and prayed God's blessing up-
on the Association. Our meeting closed at
five o'clock, and all seemed to feel well paid
for coming to it. Our Association has donated
two dollars in cash in the last few months for
the Sanpete Temple.
	Ever praying for the welfare of the Prim-
aries, and for all who are working for the up-
building of God's kingdom, we remain,
		Sincerely your sisters,
		MINERVA PRATT, Prest.
		ELEANOR OWENS, First Coun.

	THE MARRIAGE OF GREAT MEN.

	Byron married Miss Millbank to get money
to pay his debts. It turned out a bad shift.
	Robert Burns married a farm girl, with
whom he fell in love while they worked to-
gether in a plowed field. He was irregular in
his life, and committed the most serious mis-
takes in conducting his domestic affairs.
	Milton married the daughter of a country
squire, and lived with her but a short time.
He was an austere literary recluse, while she
was a rosy, romping country lass, that could
not endure the restraint imposed upon her; so
they separated. Subsequently, however, she
returned, and they lived tolerably happy.
	Queen Victoria and Prince Albert were
cousins, and about the only example in the
long line of English monarchs wherein the
marital vows were sacredly observed and sin-
cere affection existed.
	Shakespeare loved and wedded a farmer's
daughter. She was faithful to her vows, but
we could hardly say the same of the bard him-
self. Like most of the great poets, he showed
too little discrimination in bestowing his affec-
tion on the other sex.
	Washington married a woman with two
children. It is enough to say she was worthy
of him, and they lived together as married
people should live—in perfect harmony with
each other.


﻿Mrs. L. M. Wilson, superintendent of
public schools at Des Moines, Iowa, has under
her charge eight buildings, eighty teachers,
and about 4,000 pupils. Her salary is $1,800
a year.
	Ladies are beginning to use scented wax for
sealing their letters. There is now imported
from Paris a costly kind of wax for this pur-
pose, the perfume of which when burning will
fill a room and linger for hours about the en-
velope.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WRITTEN WHEN I HAD BEEN IN THE
		CHURCH ONE YEAR.

	FRIENDSHIP, LOVE AND TRUTH.

Three stars are shining on me from the WEST;
Three gifts of God, the brightest and the best;
Three strong impulses that have turned me round;
Three beacons placed upon a flowery mound;
Three guardian angels, pointing out the way;
Three voices urging me to "watch and pray;"
Three "silver trumpets," God's own heralds sound;
Three "muster rolls" that summon ALL around;
Three whispers echoed from the voice of God!
Three scourges ready, should I need the rod;
Three pearls dissolved in life's oft bitter cup;
Three sweets that urge me on to drink it up;
Three index hands, that point me to the goal;
Three magnets that attract and fix my soul;
Three paths, that lead direct to Zion's hill;
Three alchymists that gold, for me, distil;
Three messengers of peace, that calm my fears,
And fondly urge me thro' this vale of tears.
					HANNAH T. KING.
Dernford Dale, England.


WEAVERS WE.

Weavers we at the loom of Time,
	Swift are our shuttles flying;
Warp and woof we're weaving fast,
	Ever our life-task plying;
In sunshine in shade, in pleasure and gloom,
Weave we Life's tissue on Time's busy loom.

Threads of gold through the bright new woof
	Gleam when the work is begun;
The gold pales off in dull grey hues
	And fades ere the work is done;
While some strands are snarled, and the tangled stain
Is soiled in the weaving with salt tears' stain.

Weave we the warp as weave we may,
	Vain our toil, vain all our skill;
Bewildered by Fate, the web shall be
	Not the fashion of our will—
For a double thread e'er runs through the wift,
In the fairest stitch some false loop is left.

Alas! who gayest wore at dawn,
	As slow the dull lengths unreel,
Most weary at the evening's close
	Toils on at the restless wheel,
Till he snaps his thread, and his shuttle drops,
When the loom with its unshaped fabric stops.

Then one picks up the broken ends;
	Tangled by Error and Doubt,
Forms the web the weaver wove,
	As He smooths the roughness out,
Whatever the worker fashioned below,
His robe of light or his garment of woe.—Selected.


[Column 1]
			NAAMAN. 

	The tableaux of the Bible are all brief, but
they are sublime and beautiful, and always
edifying. They leave on the mind that reads
them, meditatively and understandingly, a 
lingering pathos, a desire to imitate the
characters that compose them, and a love and
reverence for the same. 
	That of Naaman has ever impressed me
as one from which much instruction may be
derived; it seems that no one can read his
dreadful affliction, his marvelous blessings, and
restoration to perfect health, even "as a little
child," and all through the instrumentality of
a little captive maid, without lingering over it,
again and again, with a feeling of deep re-
flection and of love and beauty pervading the
mind. Naaman, we are told in the sacred
history, was greatly in favor with the King of
Syria, being captain of the host, and was
honorable, because by him the Lord had given
deliverance into Syria; he was also a mighty
man in valor; but—he was a leper!
	Now, the Syrians had gone out in companie,
and, had brought away captive a little maids

[Column 2]
and she waited on Naaman's wife. Now here
is left a wide space for the imagination of
the reader—how much is contained in these
few words; all prelude is entirely omitted, but
the sequel assures us that this lady was a noble
woman, and had taken the little maid under
her care and had excited in her mind a love
for her employers, and that her young heart
had thought over and commiserated the afflic-
tion of her master. Though young and a 
captive, brought from her home and friends, 
the kindness of her mistress had excited her
warm sympathy, as no doubt she saw daily
how sad the affliction of her husband made
her. It would appear that some allusion had
been made to this great affliction, for the
words seem to rush from her heart to her lips,
and she breaks out, "Would God, my lord
were with the prophet that is in Samaria, for
He would recover him of his leprosy." What
a simple assertion! and yet what decided faith
is in every word of it; what reverence and de-
votion to her employers; how rare, but yet how
beautiful.
	The narrative goes on to say, "These words
were told to Naaman"—most probably by his 
wife—and the great officer of state must have
had a noble, unprejudiced mind, to listen to an
asssrtion from the little captive maid! but
affliction is generally accompanied by humility,
and a promise of relief in such severe suffering,
even from so humble a source, was attractive,
for she had spoken positively, and her words
were thrilling; she had preached one of the
principles of the Gospel, and we know the
power of God goes with them. Probably he
had been impressed with the serious, devout
mind of the child, which would naturally give
weight to her words, and he pondered upon
them. It appears that the words of the child
had been told to the King of Syria, and di-
rectly he determined to send a letter to the
King of Israel with a handsome present, and
said in the letter he had written, "I herewith
send Naaman my servant unto thee, that thou
mayst recover him of his leprosy!" But when
the King had read the letter, he rent his
clothes and said, "Am I God, that this man 
doth send unto me to recover a man of his
leprosy? See how he seeketh a quarrel against
me."
	Elisha heard that the King of Israel was
much excited over the letter, and he went to
him and said, "Wherefore has thou rent thy
clothes? Let him come now to me, and he
shall know that there is a prophet in Israel."
	So Naaman went with his horses and char-
iots, and waited at the door of the house of
Elisha; and Elisha sent a messenger to him,
saying, "Go wash in Jordan seven times, and 
thy flesh shall cleave unto thee, and thou shalt
be clean."
	But Naaman turned away in anger; his
pride was wounded; he thought that Elisha
himself would surely have come out to him, 
one of the most favored officers of the King,
that he would have drawn "his hand over the
place, and so recovered" him; he also thought
that the Jordan was too insignificant a stream
in which for him to wash; why, said he, not 
wash in one of the noble rivers of Damascus?
So "he turned away in a rage."
	Now again we see a display of the lurking
humility of Naaman's character, for the
historian goes on to say, "His servants came
near and spake unto him and said, 'My Father
if the Prophet had told thee to do some great
thing, wouldst thou not have done it? How
much rather, then, when he saith to thee, wash
and be clean.' Then he went and dipped
seven times in Jordan, according to the saying
of the man of God, and his flesh came again
like the flesh of a little child's, and he was
clean."
	Then he returned to Elisha and said, "Now
I know that there is no God in all the earth
but in Israel," and he desired to make him a

[Column 3]
handsome present, but Elisha said, "As the
Lord liveth, before whom I stand, I will take 
nothing." Then Naaman declares that hence-
forth he will offer neither burnt offering nor
sacrifice to any God but unto the Lord; but he
entreated Elisha to pardon him when he 
should have to attend to the King when he went
to "worship in the House of Rimmon, and
would have to bow himself down with the
King; the Lord pardon thy servant in this
thing." And Elisha said to him, "Go in
peace." So he returned healed and blessed to
his own house. We read no more of Naaman,
nor of the little maid who was the instrument
in the hand of God of bringing about that
glorious result; her name is not even given; her
sex and occupation is all that she is designated
by; but the meditative mind will draw her
picture as a pure, affectionate and appreciative
child of God, and it is sweet and beautiful in
its brief simplicity, and is a subject for con-
templation, especially for the young of every
age, as an example to them to follow and imi-
tate. The Scripture says "she was of the
land of Israel." Hence, of course, she was of
Hebrew blood, and this will account for her
great knowledge of the prophet of God. Her
education had evidently been carefully at-
tended to, and her young character evinced
faith, reverence, affection, gratitude, with
dignity and seriousness of mature age. I re-
quest my young friends to read this history of
Naaman and the "little maid"—they will find
it both interesting and instructive. It will be
found in ii Kings, chapter v. In the same
chapter they will read of Gehazi, the servant
of Elisha, who, hearing his master refuse the
rich present offered him by Naaman, deter-
mines to bespeak it for himself, and having
procured it, returns and stands before his
master, who is severely angry with him, and
says to him, "The leprosy of Naaman shall
cleave unto thee forever, and he went out from
his presence a leper as white as snow."
				HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Women jump at conclusions and generally
hit; men reason things out logically and general-
ly miss it.
	A woman always carries her purse in her
hand so that other women will see it; a man
carries his in his inside pocket so that his wife
wont see it.
	If instead of a gem, or even a flower, we
could cast the gift of a lovely thought into the
heart of a friend, that would be giving as the
angels give.—Geo. MacDonald.
	An old proverb says: If a person dies without
the services of a doctor, then a coronor must
be called in and a jury empanelled to inquire
and determine upon the cause of death; but if
a doctor attended the case; then no coroner
and jury are needed, as everybody knows why
the person died.—Medical Herald.
	A well known dealer in pictures, a candidate
in the Radical interest for one of the divi-
sions of Lancashire, was lately making a
speech, and in the course of it drew the usual
Radical caricature sketch of the relative
achievements of the Liberal and the Tory party.
After proving to his own satisfaction that
everything was good, from the solar system
and the precession of the equinoxes down to
cheap calico and school-boards, had been in-
vented by the Liberals, and that all the evils
of the universe arose from the incursions into
power of the Tories, he wound up by saying,
"Look on this picture and on that!" At this
a man in the hall, who had listened imp atient-
ly to the catalogue of good and evil, cried out,
"None of your blooming shop! Talk politics."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly; in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates; Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,			JANUARY 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

A GLIMPSE OF NEW YORK CITY.

	Arriving late on Sunday night, or early Mon-
day morning was rather an awkward entre into a
greatcity, and most provoking, too, when one
was desirous of seeing to the best advantage this
place of great renown.
	Morning dawned, however, and as soon as pos-
sible we were out upon Broadway, and gazing up
and down at the crowds of people hurrying to and
fro, hither and thither, without cessation, as
though some great event had just transpired to
bring a crowd together. This was holiday week,
and a good time to see New York in holiday attire;
everywhere brilliant and gorgeous colors were
displayed, and fancy goods of all descriptions in
the greatest abundance, and, in fact, everything
useful, substantial, ornamental and decorative.
We learned afterwards that it was very confusing
even to those accustomed to shopping in this great
city. The display made at Tiffany's was dazzling,
and one could not help being a little dazed with
the elaborate showing, as also at the enormous
prices. After rambling around awhile alone, and
n and out of two or three bookstores, and look-
ing over a directory, we took a car and went in
the direction of Governor's Island. Arriving at
the landing, we crossed over in the boat which
plied regularly for the accomodation of the service,
and on reaching the port, made inquiry of a
guard, or a soldier on duty, for Lieut. R. W.
Young's residence. We found the handsome and
fascinating young Lieut. tending the new baby
and his charming wife and himself both very glad
to see someone from home. We had a long chat
over affairs in Salt Lake, lunching meantime, and
then the Lieut. offered to escort Aunt Em around
New York the remainder of the day. We went
first to Battery Place, then took a good look at
Castle Gardens, and from thence to the elevated
railway, and rode along some of the principal
streets, the Lieut. pointing out, as we passed
them, many places of special interest. After this
we went to the Produce Exchange Building, as
from its top the Lieut. thought we could see as
much of New York as could be taken in at one
view. The ground floor is occupied mainly for
offices—a branch of the New York Post Office in
one part. Taking the elevator, we reached a
gallery where we could look down into the Ex-
change business hall, and see the crowd of men
below, who were, apparently, very much excited
over the transactions, in which they were, no
doubt, from their manner, intensely interested
financially. It was all quite unintelligible to one
not initiated into the method of proceedings.
They were grain merchants transacting daily
business, etc. To a stranger it was a sort of
noisy Babel. Leaving this part of the building,
we ascended in the elevator to the very top of the
campanile, a distance of two hundred feet, and
walked out upon the roof, where we had a good
view in all directions of the city and its surround-
ings, and the shipping as well. One of the
novelties of this scene was the trains of cars be-

[Column 2]

ing ferried over in boats. The Produce Ex-
change is a splendid new building on Bowling
Green; it covers a whole square, and is very
grand and imposing in its appearance. It is con-
structed after the manner of the Italian Renais
sance, considerably modified, however. The ma-
terial used in the structure is brick and terra
cotta, with granite porches and base; the average
height of facade is one hundred and twenty-five
feet. The main Exchange Hall on the second
floor, where the Produce Exchange members
make their rendezvous, is sixty feet in height.
This organization is said to be "the largest in the
world. Its membership is limited to 3,000, which
is now full." The upper stories are divided into
three hundred offices. The Produce Exchange
is considered one of the finest architectural fea-
tures in New York.
	St. Patrick's Cathedral is the church of churches
in architectural beauty and magnificence. When
we entered the music made a great impression, it
seemed so heavenly, and after a few moments
we understood why; it was children's voices, and
they were practicing in the organ gallery for the
Christmas exercises. The structure is not yet
completed, although in use. Of the seventy
windows that light the building, thirty-seven are
memorial to saints and sacred subjects; they
were made at Chartres, France, and presented by
parishes and individuals. All this is beautiful in
design, and indicates refinement in art and culture,
but a Latter-day Saint could scarcely help solilo-
quizing on the subject of empty forms and cere-
monies such as present themselves in a place of
Catholic worship. While we were there admir-
ing the workmanship and ingenuity that had
planned this handsome edifice, one after another
the worshipers came in and knelt for a moment at
some one of the many crosses that were in the
body of the cathedral, or dipping their fingers in
the elegant basins of holy water, crossed them-
selves with the utmost sanctity, and counted over
their beads.
	The architecture of this vast cathedral is of the
style that prevailed in Europe in the thirteenth
century, of which it is said the Cathedrals of
Rhiems, Cologne and Amiens on the continent
and the naves in the York, Minster, Exeter and
Westminster are exponents. The edifice is of white
marble with base of granite. The columns that
support the roof are of the most highly polished
white marble, and all the interior of the building
is as exquisitely elegant, seemingly, as it could
possibly be made. No expense has been spared,
evidently, in fitting up this grand cathedral for
sacred worship.
	Wandering out of the Roman Catholic domain,
pondering upon religious views and opinions of
the various sects and denominations of the day,
we mentally contrasted the condition of the vari-
ous churches with that of the true Church, and
congratulated ourselves that we were so highly
favored as to have a positive knowledge of the
principles of life and salvation, that we might not
be tossed about with every wind of doctrine, and
the dogmas of man, who preach for hire. We
went into Fifth Avenue to see some of those
palaces of the rich that stand there in silent
beauty, as ornaments to the great metropolis. On
this street are the Vanderbilt residences, and also
the palatial home of John Jacob Astor.
	The Lieut. also took us to see the fourteen
story tenement houses, occupied as French Flats,
which, on account of their style and magnificence,
rent for enormous sums per month. Daylight
was fast waning into starlight as we wended our
way to the Grand Central Hotel on Broad-
way. Part of the evening we spent most agree-
ably with Mr. and Mrs. John Neals, well known
in Utah, in company with Mr. Fred Clawson, son
of Bishop H. B. Clawson, who is in college in
New York, studying very hard, and preparing
himself for professional work.

[Column 3]

	The second day in New York we devoted to
calling upon acquaintances, etc. The most inter-
esting place we visited was the old store and pub-
lishing house of the Phrenological Journal (Fowler
& Wells) There we found Mrs. Charlotte F.
Wells busy as possible attending to business,
though now on the shady side of seventy. She
took great pains to show and explain many of the
skulls ranged there as phrenological studies, and
gave us much information in detail concerning
each one as she handled them. It is quite appar-
ent that she takes great delight in this labor, and
her life and energies are devoted largely to
scientific pursuits, which she has the ability to
treat upon with intelligence in a very happy man-
ner. In the evening we attended the Madison
Square theatre, and saw a very good domestic
drama—The Minister's Daughter—a play with
an excellent moral and very well presented. The
theatre is quite unique in style and prettily decora-
ted, the striking novelty being an elevator stage,
which is raised and lowered between the acts, and
renders the business part quite easy, and does
away with the waiting between acts, which is
sometimes very tedious. There was a fair sized
audience, but the only face we knew was that of
one of the Utah Commissioners, who seemed per-
fectly at ease with his conscience, and smiled as
serenely as if he had not helped to kindle the in-
dignation of the nation against some of the best
citizens of this free Republic. How many happy
homes are broken up, or helpless women and
children cast upon the charity of a cold, unfeel-
ing world, while the husbands and fathers of lov-
ing families are immured in vile and unwholesome
prisons, such men care not, while they can draw
a fat salary from the public treasury. But it must
needs be that offenses come, and God's plans go on
notwithstanding the opposition from the doctrines
and precepts of men. The Latter-day Saints can
with all safety acknowledge the hand of God in
all things and trust in His deliverance in the fu-
ture as in the past.
	This is but a cursory glance at New York City,
and though we have plenty of material we must
be brief in description. Returning from the
theatre with Mr. Clawson, we had an excellent
opportunity to see New York City by gaslight, and
as he knows the city thoroughly, and the stores
were on parade, so to speak, and the streets
thronged, we went on several of the most fashion-
able ones and saw the elaborate display made at
this festive season of the year.
	In our next we will treat upon New England in
winter, its scenes and places, and how things
looked there and the great changes which had
taken place during forty years' absence.


THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.

	On Monday, the 11th inst., the Territorial Legisla-
ture convened for the purpose of enacting laws
for the people whose representatives they are.
Some of the present members have, for a number
of years, assembled here in this capacity,
which fact shows the great esteem in which they
are held in their several constituencies; whilst
others are comparatively young and inexperienced
men. Yet, the fact that they are elected to such
offices of honor and trust, proves their efficiency,
and that they possess the highest regard and confi-
dence of the people.
	We sincerely hope that during this session the
best of feelings will prevail, and success crown
all the efforts for wise and necessary legislation
that the members may attempt. However, the
outlook is anything but promising, while a governor
with the absolute veto threatens that he will do
nothing for the people until the legislature pass
laws against the people. In reality this is all that
the long harangue, called the Governor's Message,
delivered Tuesday afternoon, amounted to. In


[Column 1]
reviewing the message, it is not our purpose to
dwell at any length on its several parts—points it
has few—in fact it does not merit it, for the whole
is merely a mixture of egotism, insinuation and
abuse, such as might usually be expected in an
anti-polygamy lecture, gotten up for outside effect.
We regard it as a perfect insult to the people of
this Territory, and can readily imagine the feel-
ings of disgust which must have arisen in the
breasts of our legislators while they were com-
pelled to sit quietly and listen to it. Look at such
sentences as these:
	"Remember the aid given by the government to
the hardy pioneers who settled Utah. Remember
that not one life of those who settled Utah was
put in jeopardy in the battles with Mexico." To
what aid does His Excellency refer? We remem-
ber only that in those days our government refused
to protect us, and allowed us to be driven from
our comfortable homes into the wilderness. Sup-
port during our long journey, and in the early
days in Utah, we had none, save from the One
who protects all who have faith in Him—our
Heavenly Father. We remember, in the hour of
our greatest need, government called upon us for,
and was willing to take from us, our strongest and
bravest men to aid in the war with Mexico. Was
no life in jeopardy then? Is there ever a battle
fought in which only the actual participants are in
danger? Was there not danger in this instance
to those poor wives, mothers, sisters and children
who were left on the lonely, dreary plains to pur-
sue their journey without their kind protectors?
We do not ask Governor Murray to think of the
sufferings, the hardships, the trials that our people
endured in the early days of Utah, when they
lived in the rudest huts, ate roots and the coarsest
food, fought and labored day and night to protect
themselves from the wolves and Indians. He is
perhaps incapable of considering the thought, but
he ought to remember that the men to whom he
delivered this shameful address were either the
early settlers themselves, or sons of the noble
pioneers, or at least their representatives, and
they knew and felt the fallacy of his assertions.
We will not pursue the subject of the message
throughout, only to mention the advice the
Governor gives after recommending the passage
of the marriage law, which is embodied in the
new Edmunds Bill. He says: "I recommend the
enactment of laws against polygamy, bigamy and
unlawful cohabitation commensurate with the law
of Congress, as interpreted by the Supreme Court
of the United States."
	To some extent Congress might be pardoned for
enacting such laws, for they do not understand
the true condition of the people here, and are
actuated by popular prejudice, and lured on by a
man recognized as an astute and influential politi-
cian. They act blindly, and do not care to enquire
far into a question which concerns themselves
little while they have other measures nearer their
own interests to adopt; but the idea that our own
representatives would attempt the enactment of
such laws is absurd and scarcely deserves a
thought.
	What measures the present legislature may
adopt is, of course, unknown, but we feel assured
they will be such as will best aid and benefit the
people. For a long time the parties framing and
enacting these laws against Utah have declared
that they did so in defense of the "poor, down-
trodden women of Mormondom," that they wished
to loose our fetters and restore to us the rights
that we hold to be every woman's due. As the
voice of the women of Utah, the EXPONENT de-
clares, we are neither poor, down-trodden, fettered
nor wronged, but on the contrary, rich in the
happiness and peace of our homes, upheld and
honored in every way, as wives and mothers
should be, we have no fetters, save the golden
chains of affection, and are wronged only by our
enemies. 'Tis not the women of Utah who desire

[Column 2]
such legislation. Our cry has ever been, "We
are content; leave us alone." And now we be-
seech Congress and all who have had a hand in
framing and passing these laws against us to
pause and go no further, but retract the steps al-
ready taken, restore to us the liberty the Edmunds
law has taken away, and give us back from prison
and exile our husbands and our fathers.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER TO PRESIDENT CLEVELAND.

DELEGATE JOHN T. CAINE AGAIN WRITES TO
	THE PRESIDENT TO REFUTE LIBELS AND
	AND APPEAL FOR JUSTICE.

	By courtesy of Hon. John T. Caine we are
favored with a copy of the following letter, which
he presented to President Cleveland on the date
mentioned:
		WASHINGTON, D. C., Dec. 10, 1885.
	Sir—I have the honor to transmit herewith the
result of the inquiry made by the Council of Salt
Lake City touching the unfounded representations
made to you by the Governor of the Territory of
Utah and other Federal officials, seriously reflect-
ing upon the peaceable and law-abiding character
of the "Mormon" citizens of that Territory.
	I am sure that you will be convinced after read-
ing the official report of the City Council, that the
Federal officials grossly misrepresented the
character of the "Mormon" people, and that there
was not a scintilla of truth in the statements they
made to you of danger to life and property at the
hands of lawless men inspired by "Mormon"
leaders.
	You will notice that the scope of the inquiry
was broad enough to cover the whole ground;
that the Federal officers and the military authori-
ties were invited to be present and give their testi-
mony; that every wild rumor was traced to its
origin. You will observe that it was conclusively
proved that no body of armed men came into Salt
Lake City, and that the rumor of the threatened
lynching of Deputy Marshal Collin was wholly
untrue; that the gathering at the City Hall on the
night of the shooting of McMurrin by Collin was
a quiet and orderly assembling of not more than
two hundred people; that the stories about the
secretion of arms and ammunition in the city, and
the organizing and arming of "Mormons" in the
various settlements throughout the Territory were
without any foundation in fact.
	I cannot doubt, sir, that you must be satisfied
that the monstrously false stories which have been
telegraphed to the eastern press had their source
in the same quarter whence emanated the repre-
sentations made to you. They are but exaggera-
tions of the baseless rumors which irresponsible
partisans of the Governor originated, doubtless
for the sole purpose of affording him a pretext for
requesting the quartering of Federal soldiers in
Salt Lake City.
	As I have, heretofore, assured you, verbally and
in writing, it is not the presence of troops quar-
tered in the city of Salt Lake, which we protest
against, but the false, malicious, and inexcusable
misrepresentations which induced you to order
them thither. I beg you, sir, to reflect for a
moment upon the serious injury these false accusa-
tions have caused a whole community, which,
whatever may be the difference of opinion, respect-
ing some of its religious teachings and practices,
is recognized by the whole civilized world as an
eminently peaceable and conservative one. Not
only have the vast material interests of the "Mor-
mon" people been irreparably damaged by these
wickedly false stories, but a feeling of insecurity
has been created thereby in the minds of capital-
ists who have invested millions in Utah.
	I respectfully submit, Mr. President, that the
men who have so grossly deceived you in this
matter are unworthy of your confidence and unfit


[Column 2]
to represent the Federal government. Their of-
fense has not been a trivial one. It is a very
grave and serious matter to bear false witness
against an individual, and still more reprehensible
to villify, traduce and lie about a whole people.
The offending of the unworthy officials has been
aggravated by their inspiring the wildly sensational
dispatches to the press of the country, which
would have been treated as they deserved by all
reflecting people if the stamp of truth had not
been given to the same by the ordering of troops
from Omaha to Utah, and the quartering thereof
in Salt Lake City.
	Far removed as you are from the scene of these
occurrences, and naturally reposing confidence in
the men who represent the Federal Government
in Utah, you doubtless felt that it was but pru-
dence on your part to respond to their application
for additional troops. Controlling, as these officials
do, an intemperate and violently partisan news-
paper, and through it the associated press dis-
patches sent from Salt Lake City, they have been
able to give wide circulation to their deliberately
manufactured falsehoods. The action of the
Federal Government, thus induced, in its turn
superinduced a belief on the part of millions of
people that the "Mormons" were on the point of
actual rebellion. While, therefore, it is true that
the presence of additional troops in Utah and the
quartering of a company in Salt Lake City has not
been per se an injury to any individual the result-
ant consequences have been most seriously
injurious to the "Mormon" people and indeed to
the whole country.
	The men who are responsible for these things,
I repeat, ought not to retain your confidence. I
submit, moreover, that in view of the demonstra-
ted unreliability of these officials, of their (to say
the least) suspicious conduct, the people I have
the honor to represent ought to have the oppor-
tunity to be heard by fair and impartial men who
would report the truth to you. I am sure that
there are many such men who would gladly re-
spond to an invitation from you to visit Utah and
make inquiry and report the facts for the guidance
of your administration.
			Very respectfully,
						JOHN T. CAINE.
	To the President.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	GUNLOCK, WASHINGTON CO., UTAH.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I thought that a few lines from this isolated
place might perhaps be of interest. We are
but few in number, but feel to do our part in
the great work that we, the Latter-day Saints,
are engaged in.
	The Relief Society is in a good condition.
Since the death of our beloved president, Sister
Salenda E. Huntsman, which occurred June
10th, 1884 Sister E. Truman has presided.
Sister M. M. Holt presides over the Primary,
and all our little ones are greatly interested.
					LUCY TRUMAN.

		WASATCH STAKE.

	The Quartarly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Wasatch Stake of Zion was held in
Heber City, Oct. 29th, 1885. There were
present, Prest. Emma Brown and her Counsel- 
ors; also several of the branch Presidents.
Sister Brown expressed herself pleased to meet
in a conference capacity again. The presi-
dents gave in their reports, which were very
favorable, showing a good feeling prevailing
throughout the Stake.		
	Sister Alexander said she wished to still
continue faithful and be an example to her
sisters and her children.
	Sister Daybell said her desire was to do her


[Column 1]
part in helping to build up the kingdom of<v and="" received="" words="" of="" counsel="" encourage-="" r="" .ment="" priceless="" worth="" .to="" every="" latter-day="" saint.="" we="" were="" pleased="" to="" see="" our="" brethren="" from="" salt="" lake,="" also="" some="" of.the="" .young="" missionaries="" who="" on="" their="" return="" home..="" the="" southern="" states,="" but="" came="" this="" way="" country="" attend="" .conference.="" when="" i="" look="" upon="" bright="" intelligent,="" honest="" faces="" of'those="" young="" utah="" boys,="" as="" peey.them="" time.to="" time="" returning="" their’missions,="" often="" think="" that="" such="" boys="" can="" nowhere="" else="" be="" found.="" they="" are="" full="" '="" life,="" youth="" vigor,="" yet="" devoted="" religion="" and-="" true="" god,="" bravo="" )="" enough="" face="" a="" wicked="" world="" warn="" them="" j-i="" ‘.="" '°f="" gr6at="" judgments="" await="" them.="" while.="" ci="" t="" wasamong="" saints,="" until="" ‘="" ‘j.="" saw="" fit="" take="" up="" my="" abode="" iii="" thisjand,="" could="" not="" fully="" realize="" what="" bless-="" ,="" jng="" it="" is="" reared="" among="" the.people="" ppd,="" with="" those,="" sacred="" principles="" born="" brod="" in="" ,.r="" ?="" us="" they,="" part="" ,6f="" yery="" natures.="" .="" it,="" like="" planting="" good="" seeds="" piire,="" rich,="" ;="" (="" nevy="" soil,="" where="" no="" noxious="" weeds="" have="" ev6r="" vgroyrn..="" if="" h="" sq:="" ;tbo36="" ftho="" e&i="" brace="" the.="" gospel'="" 'the="" world;="" most="" th'ent="" "="" a‘mind="" false="" ideas="" superstitions="" overcome,="" which="" haye.="" rooted="" out,;="" and’="" takes="" lifetime="" instances="" get="" rid="" thetn.="" here="" at="" liberty;="" plant="" youngs="" -="" tender="" minds="" .?="" .children,="" whicn="" will="" grow1="" yield="" an="" abundance="" fruit.="" :="" primary="" association="" manassa="" is-in="" jja.="" flourishing="" condition.="" both="" ofiicer3="" members="" seem="" alive="" duties.="" sabbath="" school="" day="" schools="" u.="" thriving="" condition,="" many="" elder-="" people="" taking="" great="" interest="" child="" ren.="" people’s="" associations="" re-="" ar-i="" rj="" lief="" society="" doing="" well,="" antici-="" pate="" pleasant="" ihia="" winter.="" thahealth="" -f="" good-rr-much)="" better="" than;-it.="" was="" last="" year.="" building="" very="" fast,="" been="" blessed="" crops="" gardens.="" saints="" well="" satisfied="" prospects="" here,="" striving="" make="" comfortable="" homes="" ;the:="" beautiful="" valley="" wo="" located.="" believe="" that'the="" hand="" god="" -our="" settling="" he="" has="" thus="" far="" u3,="" -and="" w9="" know="" continue="" bless="" strive="" do="" his="" will.="" —="" eyerayishing="" success="" ;to="" you="" .and="" all.="" those="" engaged="" this'good="" workyl="" remain,="" your="" co-worker,="" samantha'="" t.="" bolce.="" <="" div="">
God; said, "The time has come when we will
all be tried to see if we will stand faithful
through all the trials for the Gospel's sake."
	Sister Murdock said, "We will have to
sacrifice everything for the Gospel, if our de-
sire is to do right."
	Bro. Clegg addressed the conference for a
short time; said, "The Relief Society is a great
help to the Bishops in taking responsibilities
from their shoulders and making their burdens
lighter." He felt like asking the blessing of
the Lord on the President and her Counselors.
Singing. Conference adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon meeting opened by singing.
Prayer by T. H. Giles. Sister Duke gave a
report of the Wallsburg Ward. The following
ladies addressed the meeting, and gave good
and valuable instruction: Sister Foreman, Sis-
ter Todd, Sister McMullin, Sister See and
Sister Brown. T. H. Giles spoke a few words.
	Prest. Hatch then addressed the conference
on the financial affairs. Advised the sisters
not to loan their wheat without interest. Urged
the mothers to look after their children and
give them good counsel, that their example
might be worthy of imitation. Said he de-
sired to do right, and asked the blessing of the
Lord on the Relief Society.
	Prest. Brown make a few closing remarks.
Conference adjourned sine die. Singing. Bene-
diction by Prest. Hatch.
	   MARY BRONSON, Secretary,
	   AVIS M. BRONSON, Ass't Secretary.

		    MANASSA, COLORADO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with pleasure that I once more attempt
to write to your valuable paper, that you may
know that the Saints in this land are yet alive
and striving to serve God.
	Our quarterly conference is just over, and
we have had a truly enjoyable time together,
and received words of counsel and encourage-
ment of priceless worth to every Latter-day
Saint. We were pleased to see our brethren
from Salt Lake, and also some of the young
missionaries who were on their return home
from the Southern States, but came this way
to see the country and attend conference.
	When I look upon the bright, intelligent,
honest faces of those young Utah boys, as we
see them from time to time returning from
their missions, I often think that such boys
can nowhere else be found. They are full of
life, youth and vigor, and yet they are devoted
to their religion and true to their God, brave
enough to face a wicked world and warn them
of the great judgements that await them. While
I was among the Latter-day Saints, and until
I saw fit to take up my abode in this land, I
could not fully realize what a priceless bless-
ing it is to be reared among the people of God,
with those sacred principles born and bred in
us until they are a part of our very natures.
It is like planting good seeds upon a pure, rich,
new soil, where no noxious weeds have ever
grown. But it is not so with those who em-
brace the Gospel in the world; most of them
have a mind full of false ideas and superstitions
to overcome, which have to be rooted out, and
it takes a lifetime in most instances to get rid
of them. Here we are at liberty to plant
good seeds in the young and tender minds of
our children, which will grow and yield an
abundance of good fruit.
	Our Primary Association of Manassa is in
a flourishing condition. Both officers and
members seem to be alive to their duties. Our
Sabbath School and day schools are in a
thriving condition, and many of the older
people are taking great interest with the child-
ren. Our young people's associations and Re-
lief Society are also doing well, and we antici-
pate a pleasant time this winter. The health
of the people is good—much better than it

[Column 2]
was last year. The country is building up
very fast, and we have been blessed with good
crops and gardens. The Latter-day Saints are
well satisfied with the prospects here, and are
striving to make comfortable homes in the
beautiful valley where we are located. We
believe that the hand of God is in our settling
here, and He has thus far blessed us, and we
know that He will continue to bless us if we
strive to do His will.
	Ever wishing success to you and all those
who are engaged in this good work, I remain,
			Your co-worker,
				SAMANTHA T. BOICE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MOTHERS! MOTHERS! MOTHERS!

	With what grief and sorrow does one witness
the sad spectacle involved in the downward
course of a young person. When we see a
beautifully constructed tabernacle, inhabited
by a bright, promising spirit, take the first
fatal step that leads to ruin, then all uncon-
sciously arises in our mind these questions:
Where is the fond, loving mother—she who
has already traversed a great distance on the
highway of life, having a knowledge of the
whereabouts of the pitfalls, temptations and
snares that await the unwary footsteps of the
young? Is she neglecting one of the grandest
duties which she, as a mother in Israel, has to
perform, to attend to more trifling matters? Is
her mind too much absorbed in the fashions of
to-day? Is she so much engrossed in the out-
ward adornment of the body, that she does not
take heed of her darling's faltering footsteps?
Alas! I am afraid that a great many of us
neglect the sterner and more important duties
of life to attend to more trifling matters.
	With what sorrow we look upon what was
once a bright, lovely being, marred, debased
and ruined, from following after vain and
hollow fashion. Mothers, do you think that
by teaching your little ones while they are
young, lessons of false pride you will thereby
earn an exalted kingdom in the heavens above?
Are you not unconsciously losing your own
place by setting the example and allowing your
children to become slaves to the above men-
tioned vice? Walking the streets in the city,
one often becomes grieved at witnessing the
haughty actions of some of the sweet little
children of Zion—babies in years, but quite
old in actions. They have already assumed a
walk and a toss of the head to show their great
importance—not becoming to older people,
much less to little ones. With some it would
seem to matter little how reduced in circum-
stances their parents, they still must be dressed
in the height of fashion, regardless of how ob-
noxious or abhorrent it is. There are some
fathers who are getting meagre salaries whose
children dress far more fashionably than the
children of others who are worth their thou-
sands.
	Now, are these things what our religion
teaches us? Does this bring us nearer to God?
Does this teach our children to be meek and
humble? Does taking time for such worldly
frivolity edify us, or cause our minds to ex-
pand? I think not. Then, let us teach our
children, and to do so, let us set the example
ourselves—to spend every precious spare mo-
ment in improvement, in gaining all possible
instruction in regard to our religion, and to
live in such a way that we may all gain an ex-
alted place in the kingdom of God.
	We should seek to make our homes as at-
tractive as lies in our power, by furnishing
them with plenty of good, useful books, house
plants and all the little articles lying within
the reach of all of us, and which, under
proper influences, give a chance for serious
thought and useful reflection, which they
might not have obtained. They will thereby
have inculcated in their minds a dislike for


[Column 2]
all things impure, among them, a dislike for
low, trashy reading, which but corrodes and
corrupts the mind. I think if every mother
will watch over the infant years of her darlings
there will not be many who will not attain to a
life of nobility and usefulness. Few will be
found walking the streets at night, or with a
desire to. Few will be ashamed to be called
too religious, but they will grow up sons and
daughters of Zion to be proud of.
	Mothers, if you wish your sweet ones to
graduate in the school of scandal and vice,
teach them to love frivolity and fashion, and
let them please themselves in every idle vanity
while young; but if you wish them to graduate
in the school of virtue and truth, teach them
obedience while young, to shun all evil, and to
obey through love, not through fear, and they
will pass with full honor.			IDA.


TIN WEDDING.

	A few of the especial friends of Mrs. Reba
B. Pratt secured some tin valuables and a
hamper each of the good things which maketh
the heart glad and took to their buggies and
rode out on Sunday to the farm of the well-
known stock man, Mr. Alma Pratt.
	Mrs. Pratt has been an invalid for years,
and unable to visit and enjoy the society she
is so well capable, mentally, of adorning. She
was President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Farm-
er's Ward until her health enforced her resigna-
tion. After the arrival of the guests, and
wishing her "plenty of tin forever," she repaid
us by reading a touching poem she had lately
written, portraying her appreciation of her life
on earth, and also most beautifully her resigna-
tion to await the Father's call, and the joy of
the kiss of the loved ones on the other bright
shore. A fear of sympathy glistened the
eye of every listener, and each heart felt
strengthened and edified in the contemplation
of the beauty and grandeur of her "blessed
hope of the future."
	Dinner was announced, and all did ample
justice, after the ride through the sharp, frosty
air, to the many inviting and palatable dishes.
After dinner we again surrounded the center
of social interest and sympathy, the invalid,
when she was the favored recipient of many
precious blessings and promises out of the ful-
ness of some great hearts who have borne the
heat of the day and the brunt of the battle
faithfully, and whom the Lord delights to own
and bless and answer their prayers.
	The sinking sun admonished us to hasten
to our warm home firesides before "jack frost"
became absolute sovereign of our frozen valley.
When we kissed our pale friend "good bye"
she said, "I am so glad you all came, for it has
made me feel better;" and our hearts answered,
"'tis sweet to comfort the sick."
						A TIN GUEST.


MOTHERS.

	No word arouses such tender feelings as
that of mother. Strong men are not ashamed
to be softened by it, and aged women mention
it with loving reverence—grandmothers as
they are in their own lives, going back to the
time when they were children, half wondering,
half-adoring at her knee, and young girls to
whom the mother was the guiding star of life,
and her precepts, those perfect utterances by
which they were ruled. Wild boys, whom
neither parental authority nor fear of the
master's cane can reduce to order, are led
without trouble by the mother's silken rein of
influence; youths who have flung off the res-
traints of religion, the fetters of morality,
and have given themselves to idleness and vice,
can be brought back in mid-career, awakened
out of their perilous sleep in Armida's garden,
and restored to their better selves by the


[Column 1]
loving words and tearful prayer of the
mother.
	Even the most hardened sinner has one pure
spot left in his heart—that wherein his mother's
memory is enshrined; and the cynic, who des-
pises all women alike, excepts her from the
general censure. No influence is so strong and
so lasting as that which the mother has over
her children, no shame so great as that which
she brings upon them when she fails in her
own life and covers her name and theirs with
disgrace. To those restless feminine souls who
cry out for more power, more authority, more
expansion in society, we would say, "You have
the largest share of all, you who are mothers
with children to guide, to educate, and to
mold." For strange as it may seem, there are
certain even of these mothers who have to be
reminded of their privileges and their duties.
Among the new race of women that has
sprung up of late years are some to whom this
grand and gracious word brings no sense of
honor—rather who look on its duties as re-
straints, and its privileges as not worth the
personal trouble involved in their mainten-
ance.
	But, if there are women like these, there
are others the elemental quality of whose
character is motherhood—that is sympathy,
unselfishness, the power of protection, the
spirit of wholesome counsel. Just as some
women are bound to be mere dolls, toys and
playthings of men and society; pretty puppets
in gala dresses, hung about with jewels and
seated on velvet cushions; creatures for show
and ornament, not for use nor yet for work;
creatures that have to be pampered and in-
dulged and that are as helpless as the infants
to which they give birth, but of which they
alone, of all the mothers in the animal world,
can take no care—so are there women who are
born mothers; women consecrated by nature to
that holiest place and function, even if for-
tune and history rule their lives otherwise. It
is a mistake to suppose that the maternal in-
stinct is universal on the one hand, or that it
is developed only by personal experience on
the other. Even women who are mothers may
be found wholly destitute of it, with not a ray
of natural feeling for their offspring; and some
who are neither wives nor mothers in fact are
all the latter in feeling. These are women
who are the chosen friends of both sexes and
all ages. To them flock all who have troubles
—and who has not?—sure of a patient hearing
and that sweet sympathy which of itself heals
the wounds laid bare to its touch. If anyone
is in difficulty, it is the motherly woman who
is asked to give her help—and seldom asked in
vain; for motherliness is the cruse of oil
wherein time and faculty never never run dry,
and the more that is given the more that re-
mains behind to give. Passion-tossed men go
to her for wise advice and calming counsel;
erring women go to her for pity for the past
and strength for the future; little children
carry to her their childish grief, their innocent
sins, their wants and fears, and perplexities;
she gives to all what they seek, richly, abun-
dantly, and of those who respect her there is no
one who fears.
	Pure herself, she can pity the backslidings of
the frail, and aid in the upward path the totter-
ing feet of the weak. Living apart from the
world of dark temptation, she has the sublime
mercy which comes from purity and love com-
bined for those who lie on her breast stained
and despairing. Firm in her own life, she can
accept those who are neither; knowing no tor-
tures of remorse, she can feel for those who
suffer; and she is a mother to the guilty as well
as to the sorrowful. Beautiful as nature, pro-
tective as our country—both of which we also
call mother—she is the refuge of all who want
and are weary; and only the flippant, the shal-

[Column 2]
low, the insincere, and the vain find her hands
closed and her heart shut.
	And in a smaller sphere than this—in the
quiet home, where is no overwhelming tragedy
of crime, no wide-straying aberrations to con-
done, how priceless the service rendered by
the mother to her people! If some calamity
of loss or death troubles the family, she is the
one to console the rest; and, while leaving the
heaviest portion for herself, finds means to
lighten the burden of each in turn. If sick-
ness is about who but she is head nurse, even
if she herself is weak, and more needing care
than rightly capable of giving it? and to her is
owing more than half the honor of the re-
covery. If happiness is on hand, her smile
seems to lend a brighter ray to the sunshine, to
add some notes of sweeter harmony to the
melodies afloat. They all feel that without the
mother nothing would be so beautiful, nothing
so happy or well-ordered as it is now. It is
she who seems to give the point, the salt; she
who is the centre of the circle. Motherless,
the young girl's love loses something of its
blessedness; and Fame sounds but a tremulous
blast through her silver trumpet if there is no
mother to take pride in the success of her
son.
	The home which her presence once rendered
blessed, her loss has now left desolate forever;
and families, to which she has the central tie
that kept them together, fall asunder when
she has gone. Those who have never known a
mother feel for all their lives that they have
lost a good which nothing can make up to
them. However desolate the motherless child-
hood may be, the after maturity also suffers;
and there is always the sense of having had
less than others, of having lost more than
others. The thousand petty sorrows and perse-
cutions of childhood, which a mother's presence
would have prevented, tinge the color of the
after thoughts; and the feeling of desolation
that was born then continues, with more or
less intensity, to the end. A stepmother, if
she is perfect of her kind, does not answer the
same purpose. "My own mother" has a ring
in its tender tones that can not be transferred;
and even the heartiest "she is like my own
mother," does not fake the place of the yearn-
ing which all the early orphaned have, to have
known the true mother, and to have a distinct
remembrance of her personality. It is the one
insatiable desire of children to know all about
the dead mother; and no saint receives more 
fervent worship, or comes to be more of a per-
fected ideal, than she who died in her child's 
infancy, leaving behind her a memory of per-
petual youth and divine beauty, of pathetic
interest crystallized forever by the fact of her
premature loss. The dead mother is, in fact,
the saint to the imagination of her children,
and no treason would be considered so gross
as that which should endeavor to show her as
she was—faulty, like the rest of us, and per-
haps more blessed in the early death than she
would have been in the longer living. Those
brief visits of hers to the nursery, if remem-
bered at all, are remembered as the dominant
circumstances of the childish life. It would
be useless, and as cruel as useless, to say how
brief they were, how unsatisfactory and un-
substantial.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		REFLECTIONS.

	At this merry holiday time one's mind
naturally glides back over the past years of life,
and every holiday seemed to be lived again.
Even as such days are joyous, we feel the
same lightheartness as of yore, and if we have
known sorrow or bitter experience, how vivid-
ly it is recalled at this time, and we live it all
over again, though perhaps the years have
softened it and made our burdens lighter.

[Column 2]
How we see again the dear ones moving about
in childhood's home, ministering to our every
want. But the sacred object that memory
dwells on is the sainted mother, that did so
much to make her children happy and caused
their little hearts to beat as contentedly as if
their simple presents came through the wealth
of a million.
	O, how vividly do I remember my own
darling mother, and the last Christmas she was
with us in the dear old home! I gaze again
into her great dark eyes, beaming with loving
tenderness; in fancy I watch her slender, pale
hands crimp the dainty ruffles so spotless and
white, even as her own pure soul, that was so
soon to take its flight. Little did I dream
that when the early blossoms came in the spring
that she, who was the life and light of the
home, would be quietly resting in the cold and
silent grave. Yet, we feel her gentle spirit
did watch over her loved ones, and still smiles
from above, when we are treading the humble
path she trod; but such is life, and mothers so
well beloved are ever passing away, thus leav-
ing hearts near crushed with despair. Yet,
through the help of a kind, loving Father, we
struggle on, still hoping to climb the dizzy
heights in safety, no matter how rough the way
may be.
	Since we have become mothers, we will own
the pleasure it gives us to be able to help good
Santa to fill the little stockings hung up for
his particular use, and how proud we are when
we must borrow grandma's stocking because
there is none other that will hold enough for
the last new baby. Even as we rejoice over
this, we mourn over the empty space where
one hung on the former Christmas, but is now
like its dear little owner, laid away to rest.
But blessed assurance, we know that the spirits
of our babes are in God's own care, there to
wait till He calls forth the holy dust from the
lone hillside to unite with the immortal part
on the resurrection morn. As the tears fall
while we think of the treasures we have laid
up in heaven, we make new resolutions to strive
still harder to make all the dear ones happy
who depend in a great measure on us for their
earthly joys. On this day, that is celebrated
as the one that gave our Redeemer birth,
should we not make every exertion to render
all hearts light as far as our influence will
reach, and that is much farther than many of
of us realize.
	We know that all, old or young, feel a new
thrill of delight when they are remembered, if
only by one loving friend and some simple
token of remembrance. A few sweet words of
encouragement are often more to be prized
than costly presents wrung from selfish hearts
that only give for praise.
	We must all remember our faithful brethren
now lying in prison because they will not ig-
nore the sacred covenants they have made and
turn traitors to the cause of God. We will
plead, and not in vain, that our Heavenly
Father will comfort and bless them, also their
helpless wives and innocent children, from
whose arms they have been torn. Our hearts
will go out in sympathy to the exile wandering
on a foreign shore, and our soul will swell
with mighty gratitude to an Allwise Parent
that our noble Presidency are still preserved.
While we remember all these honored ones, our
hearts yearn with an unsatisfied longing for
the society of our near and immediate friends
—the members of our own family. Families
are broken up and the inmates scattered afar,
because of circumstances, over which we have
no control, but chiefly through the merciless
raid forced upon an innocent people for serv-
ing God the way they believe will win them a
salvation and a crown in His kingdom. But
though Satan howl he cannot frighten the
faithful; it will rather make more strong their
determination to keep the commands of God,


while they pity and scorn the wretches who
are seeking to destroy them.
	We have bid good bye to the dear old year
—what may the new one bring? Alas, we can-
not tell; yet we are certain all will be well
with the just and the true, and to each dear
sister and brother that we have met and
learned to love, and to every Latter-day Saint,
especially the sick and poor, the lonely and
desolate, we wish a happy new year.
				MARY S. BURNHAM.
	Burnham, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Thibetan women are restricted to the
color green in their clothes; but they purchase
corals and pearls to ornament their head-dress,
which is the most costly part of a Tibetan
lady's attire, and is sometimes of the value of
a thousand pounds sterling.
	Miss Florence Hale, of the Ladies' Art Asso-
ciation, New York, stains and paints glass,
and fires her decorated glass and china in her
own kiln. She has orders from large firms to
copy ancient stained glass, and is said to be
the only woman in this country who does this
work in all its stages.
	Mrs. Farr, of Minneapolis, this year gave a
Christmas dinner to the newsboys of that city.
Mrs. Farr is a business woman, doing a busi-
ness of $60,000 annually. She takes a great
interest in poor children, and is a special
friend to the newsboys and bootblacks of Min-
neapolis.—Woman's Journal.
	Genevieve Aylmer Farrell, of Arlington
Heights, Ill., though but eleven years old, has
been for three years an active and successful
silk culturist. As her parents are invalids,
much responsibility devolves upon her. She
has fitted up a cocoonery with everything
needful; in the past three summers she has
raised six fine crops of silk-worms, and her
cocoons and reeled silk are said to be marvels
of beauty. During the past year she has
edited a silk culture department in several
papers, and has written a series of letters on
the subject for various papers and magazines.
Last spring she published a book entitled
"Two Summers in a Cocoonery," which is highly
praised.


Patents have been issued to women during
the fortnight ending December 1st, 1885, as
follows:
	Harriet N. Ewing, Philadelphia, Penn.
Game Apparatus.
	Harriet A. Hulburd, Perrysburg, Ohio,
Scrap-book.
	Elizabeth Hull, New York, Folding Soap-
dish.
	Ellen N. Price, Brighton, England, Convert-
able Garment.
	Jennie R. Fuller, Toledo, Ohio, Fire-
escape.
	Mary J. Liggett, Wooster, Ohio, Bed-cover
fastener.
	Charlotte E. Page, Chicago, Ill., Neck-tie.
	Rachel S. Thompson, Hamilton, Ohio, Cas-
ter.
	Patents have been issued to women during
the fortnight ending December 8, 1885, as
follows:
	Mary E. Clark, Fairville, N. Y., Fruit-
drier.
	Mary M. Jones, Menomonee, Wis., Corset.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Stain on cups and saucers may be removed by rubbing
	with ashes.

	If the oven is too hot when baking, place a small dish of
cold water in it.


<lry 'they="" ;are="" excellent="" -terpolish="" stoves="" tiiathiiye="" not="" been="" blatkendd="" for'some="" length="" of="" tlmp'.="" '="" -:="" :i="" ‘="" -ii.v="" i="" r.="" ti="" i.="" -="" a="" turqi#="" deltiatr—clan="" dnd.pare="" some,="" turnips',="" and.="" pt,="" them="" in.="" two-,="" ipngtjiwise;="" melt'godrsirni="" piece.="" ;of-="" butjerj="" andput="" it="" intar="" saucepan,="" with,="" tlturnips.jdnd="" a.-="" spopnful,="" ,11,0nr..="" cook.="" qn.="" a,="" brisk="" fire,;="" yflthoqt="" ieting="" the="" turnips="" turn,="" yellow;="" moisten="" with.milk="" or="" good="" stock,.="" i'iha="" p!p?h,of.powerugarjand,="" ty.tfipwhole="" simmei="" tj="" hq="" sauce="" nearly.bsorbed.ythen;dishnp,="" -a<="" div="">	When sponge cake becomes dry it is nice to cut it in
thin slices and toast.

	To remove mildew, soak in butter-milk and spread on
the grass in the sun.

	To brighten the inside of a coffee or tea pot, fill with
water, add a small piece of soap, and let it boil about forty
five minutes.

	Old newspapers will put the finishing touch to newly
cleansed silver, knives and forks and tinware better than
anything else. Rub them well and make perfectly dry.
They are excellent to polish stoves that have not been
blackened for some length of time.

	A Turnip Delicacy.—Clean and pare some turnips, and
cut them in two lengthwise; melt a good-sized piece of
butter, and put it into a saucepan with the turnips, and a
spoonful of flour. Cook on a brisk fire, without letting
the turnips turn yellow; moisten with milk or good stock,
add a pinch of powdered sugar, and let the whole simmer
till the sauce is nearly absorbed; then dish up.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in the First Ward, Salt Lake City, Nov. 28th,
1885. Sister Elizabeth Lovett, born Oct. 21st, 1824. She
was a loving and indulgent mother, and a most affection-
ate wife to an invalid husband, whom she nursed with the
tenderest care for five long years, and survived him just
ten years. Of our departed sister it can truthfully be said,
she has come up through much tribulation and washed her
robes white in the blood of the Lamb. She was a teacher
in the Relief Society a consistent Latter-day Saint, and
died as she had lived, in full faith of the Gospel, and in
the hope of a glorious resurrection.
						M. F. STEEL, Prest.,
						ANNIE S. MUSSE, Sec


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The following Resolutions of Respect for our beloved
sister, Esther H. Davis, who departed this life December
21st, 1885, in her thirty-eighth year, were unanimously
adopted and sustained by the Primary Association of Big
Cottonwood Ward:
	Whereas, Our esteemed sister was formerly President of
the Primary Association of Big Cottonwood Ward, where
she was greatly loved and respected by every member of
the association, and,
	Whereas, In the loss of this our much esteemed sister,
we have parted with a willing worker, at all times, and one
who was ever devoted to the cause of truth and righteous-
ness,
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved family and
relatives in their great loss, and while we mingle our tears
with theirs, we look forward with the hope of meeting
her again, in the morning of the first resurrection of the
just.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the
bereaved family, that a copy be placed upon the minutes
of the association, and that one be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
				ELLEN SUTHERLAND, President,
				MARY QUIST,
				EMILY E. STEVENSON, Counselors,
				MARY E. SUTHERLAND, Secretary


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of 
	MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods 
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
	CALL AND EXAMINE. 

	DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country probmptly responded to. 
	Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!" 
	The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah. 
[Drawing of sewing machine.]
[Text on left side placed sideways, "Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!"]
[Text on right side placed sideways, "Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years."]
Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building.
	SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic." 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUSHES, EMBROIDERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
	And an elegant assortment of 
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
