Vol. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1885.	No. 14.


[column 1]
﻿CHRISTMAS.
All hail!  Savior of the Universe!
Great Redeemer of all the human race—
Centuries have passed since on this earth Thou
Camest, an infant, in most humble guise;
Below all things Thou didst most surely stoop,
That Thou mighst save the myriads of the earth.
A woman as thine agent Thou didst choose,
One whose genealogy was sanctified
By Thine eternal law and covenant;
And she herself was pure—immaculate—
Untainted by the spirit of the world;
A virgin in its most extended sense,
A being angels love to consort with,
And one to her a message did convey,
His salutation most grand and graceful.
"Hail thou that art highly favored, woman
Above all other women shalt thou stand
Through all the countless ages of eternity!
Mother of Christ, thy crowning name shall be;
Grand, appropriate, absolute and just!"

Savior! adorable Redeemer!
We love, we serve, we daily worship Thee;
And at this eventful epoch, the world
Of Christians, congregating, bow the knee.
And celebrate Thine advent on this earth;
The morn of this grand day they hail with joy,
And gladness in their thoughts of Thee,
And in their several ways recount Thy praise;
Partaking of the emblems Thou didst bless
And consecrate for ages yet unborn,
Saying, "This do in memory of ME;"
"This do until I come again, and drink
It new within our Father's kingdom."

Well may the Christian soul rejoice each time
This holy bread and wine doth touch his lips;
Does he not realize the holy tie
That binds him ever to his Savior-God
In holy consanguinity and love?
That love He taught His flock to cultivate,
As sure and certain badge that they were His!

My mind runs back to other days and years,
When "Christmas" was a herald of delight—
The glad re-unions that did then take place,
The absent gladly traveled back to home—
No passion dwelt within each heart, but love—
And where that reigns is paradise regained.

The laborer, as the noble, was at home,
And free to cheer his heart as best he could;
Yes, and the rich arose and piled up means
To make the poor ones' table groan with food.
"Convenient" for the day and age of life,
Believing, only as they blest the poor
Had they a right their splendor to enjoy.

The thrilling bells dispelled the morning dream,
Ushering in the advent of the day;
They had a voice, that after e'en long years
The burden and refrain floats o'er my soul
And list'ning ear, with whisperings immaculate!
Wafting sweet perfume o'er my heart and brain,
Inflating both with lingering delight.

Blest season! to many thou dost ever bring
The sanctity, the holy joy, the love,
The pathos of those long past, happy days;
Again in panoramic guise they pass
Like Banguo's ghosts before the thinking brain,
Informing us of that we long have known,
But in the rush of life becomes dispersed,
For chance and change engulf mortality.

When shall we behold the second advent,
Great and glorious, of our Savior King?
No more infantine, no more in humble guise,
But Lord and King of all the myriads
Of the teeming earth, past, present and to come;
His retinue, ten thousand times ten thousand
Of the glorious hosts of the Empyrean!

[column 2]
My soul, art thou prepared to meet thy Lord?
Is there a people prepared to hail Him,
The great Redeemer, Judge Supreme of earth?
The Christian world for this have groaned in prayer,
On ev'ry "advent Sunday," ages past—
Are they prepared to see their granted prayer?

Great Father, Thou knowest the hearts of all.
Before the Judge of all the earth we stand,
Naked as the new-born, unrobed infant—
My heart and brain I lay before Thine eyes,
And freely dedicate them unto Thee,
For they are Thine—Thou gav'st them unto me
Preserve them in the "hollow of Thine hand"
Until I enter on eternal life
With all the righteous of this teeming earth.
						HANNAH T. KING.
December, 1885.


CHRISTMAS

	Christmas approaches, and as the merry
season draws near, our thoughts revert to a
period eighteen hundred years ago, when the
Eternal Son of God, the mighty Savior of the
world, condescended to become the babe of
Bethlehem, and descended below all things,
that He might bring about the great scheme
of redemption, and open up the way whereby
a fallen world could be restored to the presence
of the Father.
	No wonder the heavenly host sang, “Glory
to God in the highest; peace on earth, good
will to man.” But did mankind receive Him?
Oh, no! he came unto His own, and His own
received Him not. ‘Could this lowly babe,
born of obscure parents and cradled in a
manger, be the King, the promised Messiah?
This cannot be the Deliverer—He that was to
restore the greatness to Israel, and sit upon the
throne of His father, David.  What if angels
did announce His birth with songs of joy, and
the wise men of the east follow His star till it
rested over the manger where the young child
and His mother were! “For,” said they, “how
can this lowly babe be He that was to come
—the promised Savior—and what have we to do
with angels?  Our fathers saw them, but we
have no need, for have we not Moses and the
prophets, and the canon of Scripture is, no
doubt, full, and we cannot receive one who
comes to us under such unpropitious circum-
stances." 
	And so the Jews rejected the Lord of life
and glory.  Ah!  but the arch enemy of man-
kind knew better; he feared {} promise— {}
the seed of the woman should bruise the head
of the serpent, and finding Herod a fitting in-
strument, filled him with fears and inspired his
heart with rage and jealousy, and vainly
thought, by destroying all the young children,
to frustrate the purposes of the Almighty.  No
matter how innocent the victims, no matter
how many mothers are broken-hearted—let
Rachel weep for her children and refuse to be
comforted, if we can only destroy the young
child from off the earth.  But these wicked
designs did not succeed, because the Father
had decreed from the beginning, and overruled
even the evil designs of the wicked, to bring
about His own great and glorious purposes.
And so the Son of God walked the earth His
appointed time, healing the sick, opening the
eyes of the blind, preaching the Gospel to the
poor, comforting the mourner and doing good
to all men; Himself fulfilling every law, that
He might become a perfect sacrifice, doing the
works of the Father who had sent Him, that
He might set an example for us, that if we
follow, and do the works that He did, we shall
become perfect, even as He is perfect.
Then, when another Christmas day dawns
upon the earth, let us remember the Holy One
who has again restored the Gospel to the earth,
never again to be taken from it; and although
His people are under a cloud at the present
time, let us not forget that the promises of God
are sure, and His decrees immutable; and
though some may suffer for a season, the Lord
will surely hear the cry of His oppressed peo-
ple and deliver them and put their enemies to
shame, for they who suffer for Him shall also
reign with Him; and it is they who have come
up out of great tribulation that will follow the
Lamb wheresoever He goeth; while the wicked
and those who would destroy the people of
God from off the earth, shall call on the
mountains and rocks to hide them from His
presence, when the great day of His wrath
shall come, for the efforts of the wicked can no
more overthrow the work of God to-day than
the slaughter of the innocents by Herod could
destroy the infant Jesus.  And the servants of
God, whom persecution has driven to the nations
of the earth, will do a great work therein, and
it will come to pass as it did anciently, that
the more they oppressed us, the more we will
multiply and grow.
Then let us, as Latter-day Saints, seek after-
the Spirit of Him whoso birth we celebrate,
and strive to do the works that He did; and
while we prepare our little gifts of kindness
and love for the objects of our affection, for-
get not the more important duty of administer-
ing to the necessities of the poor and needy,
visiting the sick and carrying comfort to the
mourner, for the Lord Himself has said, “In-
asmuch as ye have done it unto the least of
one of these, my brethren, ye have done  un-
to me.” In this way we shall ourselves receive
a blessing, and give to all a happy Christmas. 
				PHEBE C. YOUNG.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	We never dreamed, when commencing
those little prayer meetings—coming together
so frequently and enjoying the outpourings of
the Holy Spirit—of having to meet and con-
tend with the opposite; but so it was. The
love and union that prevailed seemed to enrage
the evil one, and, not being able to cause a
division among us, he vented his wrath upon the
little ones.
	At one of the meetings which I attended at
Sister Presendia's, there was a powerful mani-
festation of the Holy Spirit, and many comfort-
ing words were uttered, and prophecies of
blessings which it was our privilege to obtain,
if we would unite in fasting and prayer.
	Previous to this the merchants, Davis and
Kimball, who rented one of my mother's rooms,
having sold out their stock, had gone back to
Nauvoo, and her house was the place appointed
by the voice of the Spirit to hold the fast
meeting, and the great blessing to be gained
thereby was the administration of an angel or
angels. I had a promise that day that I 
should be healed by the power of God. Up


[Column 1]

to this time I had remained feeble and unable
to sit up but little, or to walk to a neighbor's
without having to lie down, and this I desired
more than anything else of a temporal nature.
In obedience to that spirit Mother Whitney,
her daughter, Sarah Ann, Sisters Louisa Pit-
kin, Presendia Buel, Sarah Lawrence, Frances
Swan, Harriet Sanders, Persis Young and
two or three others who were there, all being
my father's wives but Sister Persis and Mother-
Whitney, met the next morning without eating
or drinking. But no sooner had we begun to
offer up our united prayers than the devil
commenced his operations on the three little
ones that were there, mother's Brigham and
her little babe, and Sarah Ann's son, who was
born on the journey from Nauvoo. It would
be one and then the other. The eldest was
playing in the room adjoining, and without
any known cause, he commenced screaming;
floundering and going into the most frightful
contortions, which obliged us to stop and ad-
minister to him and rebuke that spirit in the
name of Jesus, when the child quieted down
and went to sleep. We had no sooner begun
again to seek in prayer for the promised bless-
ing, than we were again interrupted by my
mother's babe screaming, and it had lain sleep-
ing peacefully till then. He was operated up-
on in a similar manner to the other, so we were
under the necessity of again stopping to ad-
minister to him, when he was immediately re-
lieved, and went to sleep. But just as soon as
we commenced again to struggle for the bless-
ing that had been promised, the third one was
seized, and this continued through the day, and
every time the evil spirits were rebuked by
the power of the priesthood, which had been
conferred upon us in the house of God in con-
nection with our husbands. This only
stimulated us to persevere, and that wrestle
continued between the two powers, each seeking
the supremacy, till finally we became satisfied
that we would have to part with one of those
little ones before we could obtain the coveted
blessing. Therefore, when the day was nearly
spent, and we had witnessed the workings of
the two powers—one just in proportion to the
other—the mothers concluded to call Bishop
Whitney and relate this day's experience and
leave the dicision with him, whether or not we
had been directed by the right spirit. We
broke our fast, and the Bishop came about
dusk and spent the best portion of the night
in answering questions and explaining doctrines
and things which the sisters had never before
understood. He had previously expressed
some fears that the sisters might be out of the
way, seeing them meet together so often, but
he changed his mind, for he was filled with
the Holy Spirit the moment he entered the
house. His mind was clear and like a foun-
tain, and we only had to ask and receive, for
our faith was such that it would take no denial.
He told us that we were nearer obtaining what
we had sought for, and the Lord was nearer
than we had any idea of and that our desires
would have been realized had we given up one
of those children. He said it was only through
similar struggles that any great manifestations
from on high were ever obtained. There were
things that he uttered that night that he did
not know of himself, but by the Spirit some
choice truths were revealed through him, and
they were of a most consoling nature to women,
particularly to those who were making a will-
ing sacrifice in helping their husbands to accom-
plish the great and mighty purposes which the
Lord had commanded them to do, and they
were promised that eventually all that were
true and faithful would enjoy all that their
hearts desired, or could conceive of; their trials
and sufferings here would be swallowed up in
the glory they had attained to through obedi-
ence, and they would be enthroned and reign
as queens in the presence of God, eternities
without end.

[Column 2]

	I, being very weary and sad in spirit at the
close of the day, had lain down, and I fell
asleep while he was talking. I was quite
young, and not having been healed as I had
been told I should be, my faith was consider-
ably shaken; but the things I heard Father
Whitney say before I dropped to sleep com-
forted me to that degree that I forgot my
disappointment in the hope of that happiness
which I believed would be mine, in connection
with those I loved, in a day to come.
	Sister Persis Young came early the next
morning, saying that she had been impressed
by the Spirit to come and administer to me,
and I would be healed; that she could not
sleep, and she had come there in obedience to
that Spirit. She had been so long under its
influence that she shook as though palsied
when she laid her hands upon my head with
my mother. She rebuked my weakness, and
every disease that had been, or was then afflict-
ing me, and commanded me to be made whole,
pronouncing health and many other blessings
upon me, nearly all of which have been literal-
ly fulfilled. From that morning I went about
to work as though nothing had been the mat-
ter. Thus did the Lord remember one of His
unworthy handmaidens and fulfill the promise
that had been given by the gift and power of
the Holy Ghost.
	The struggles that we had with evil spirits
were something similar to what the Prophet
Joseph Smith experienced in Far West,
Missouri. He said the devil contended with
him face to face, after he had afflicted his
little child, claiming that he had the best right
to that house which Joseph had purchased, it
having been previously occupied by some
wicked people. But he rebuked the devil in
the name of the Lord, and he had to leave the
house.
	My father also had some contests with evil
spirits when young in years, and also in experi-
ence. The Prophet once requested him to relate
those occurrences and the vision of evil spirits
in England on the opening of the Gospel to
that people. After doing so, he asked Joseph
what all those things meant, fearing there might
be something wrong in him. Joseph's answer
was: "No, Brother Heber; at that time, when
you were in England, you were nigh unto the
Lord, there was only a veil between you and
Him, but you could not see Him. When I
heard of it, it gave me great joy, for I then
knew the work of God had taken root in that
land. It was this that caused the devil to make
a struggle to kill you."
	Joseph then said the nearer a person ap-
proached to the Lord, the greater power would
be manifest by the devil to prevent the accom-
plishment of the purposes of God. He also
gave father an account of many contests that
he had had with Satan.
	These things I have written for the benafit
of my sisters, and I have more which I would
like to make known to them, if my life is
spared.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
		---------------------------
    ﻿RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
			    --------
   Synopsis of Minutes of R. S. Conference of
this Stake, held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall,
Dec. 11th, 1885; Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
On the stand were Counselor E. S. Taylor and
H. M. Whitney, Secretary of R. S., Mrs. S.
Kimball, Secretary R. S. Salt Lake Stake,
Mrs. E. Howard, Treasurer, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Cor. Secretary,Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, and several
branch presidents were seated on the platform.
After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs.
Rachel Whipple.  Continued by singing,
after which minutes were read and approved,
and presidents’ roll called; twenty-three presi-
dents, five counselors and one teacher respond-
ed, Mrs. Horne gave a few words of advice,
and then reports were given from the 1st, 2nd,

[Column 2]
5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 13th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, Farm-
er’s, Sugar-House, Big Cottonwood, Draper,
Pleasant Green, Brighton, Riverton and
Granger wards.  After these reports were
given, Prest. Horne made some very earnest
remarks about the Hospital.
   Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.  Singing,
Doxology.  Benediction by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.

   Afternoon session:  After singing, prayer
was offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith.  Singing
again, after which the conference was addressed
by Prest. Horne, who introduced subjects of
great importance at the present day, and en-
treated the young people to be cautious in
choosing their associates, and warned them
against being out at night, and everything that
would tend to evil.  Spoke of the condition of
affairs in Utah, and repeated the quotation
from Scripture. "When the wicked reign the
people mourn." Thought it necessary that the
Saints should be purified, and felt sure that
“God was our Friend,” and made other interest-
ing remarks.
   Coun. E. S. Taylor referred to Bishop
Whitney’s sermon of last Sunday, and felt
thankful she had an opportunity of bearing
her testimony; thought we should gird on the
whole armor of salvation, and felt we could
trust in the Lord, etc.
   Coun. H. M. Whitney, in her remarks,
thought we would be brought into bondage be-
fore we could be delivered by the hand of God.
Said, "All that our enemies are doing is for the
furtherance of our Father’s work; iniquity will
be purged out, and we will have to become a
new people.”  Spoke of the carelessness of
some in attending meetings and receiving in-
structions.  Referred to her recent visit to
Millard Stake, and how the Lord had blsssed
her, although she went alone trusting in Him;
thought deliverance would come to the Saints
soon.
   Mrs. Elizabeth Yates, President of the Re-
lief Society of Millard Stake, made some very
interesting and instructive remarks; exhorted
the sisters to learn all in their power, and re-
minded them of the promises made to the
Saints, the gifts and blessings of the Gospel.
   Mrs. S. M. Kimball, in the course of her re-
marks, said, “Our strength lies in the spirit of
peace we cultivate, and I believe it is right to
pray for the government of this nation, that
its officers may be enlightened and do justice
to our people; the more wisdom we have from
God the greater will be our power; we are to
be disciplined and to be tested."
   Mrs. B. W. Smith said many good things;
realized that we could avoid many sorrows, if
we were watchful and humble, and tried to
cultivate love and peace at home and abroad.
   Mrs. E. Howard believed in short minutes
and in short speeches.  Prayed for President
Cleveland; favored cultivating a spirit of peace.
   Prest. Horne made closing remarks; exhorted
the sisters to pray for the President and
brethren in prison and in bonds; gave other
good instructions.
   Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.”  Benediction by Mrs. Rebecca
Jones.


An Irish gentleman, having received an
invitation from a wealthy but not over-refined
lady, on arriving was ushered into her presence.
She was sitting in the library, surrounded by
gorgeously-bound books. “You see Mr. X.,”
she said, “I need never be lonely, for here I
sit, surrounded by my best friends.” Mr. X.
approached a shelf, and without replying, took
down a volume which he observed to be uncut,
and immediately observed, with a most genial
smile, "I am happy to find, Mrs. W., that, un-
like the majority of people, you do not cut
your friends."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CHRISTMAS PRAYER.

		BY M. A. GREENHALGH.

My God, in me Thy mighty power exert,
Enlighten, comfort, sanctify my heart,
Sweeten my temper and subdue my will;
Make me like Jesus, with Thy Spirit fill—
I want to live on earth a life of faith,
I want to credit all the Gospel saith,
I want to imitate my Savior's life,
Avoiding lightness, gloom and sinful strife;
I want to bring my sisters to Thy throne,
I want to love and honor Christ alone,
I want to feel the spirit's inward power,
And stand prepared for death's important hour;
I want a meek, a gentle, quiet fame,
A heart that glows with love to Jesus' name,
I want a living sacrifice to be
To Him who died a sacrifice for me;
I want to do whatever God requires,
I want a heart to burn with pure desires;
Oh, Lord, pour out Thy Spirit on my soul,
My will, my temper and my tongue control;
Lead me through life to glorify Thy grace,
And after death to see Thee face to face.

Meadow.


[Column 1]

WINTER.

	Winter at last is here in pomp and magnifi-
cence; it has ushered itself in. The beautiful
carpet of grass has been replaced by one of
pure white snow. Spring and Summer are
beautiful seasons, so likewise are Fall and
Winter.
	Who does not love, as in the evening they
are seated before a cosy fire, to hear the wild
winds of winter first coming like a low moan
ing whisper, then louder, shriller, and more
fierce, until it seems battling and waging war-
fare with some unknown power. As I have
gazed out into the darkness on such a night
as this my soul has seemed entranced with the
wild weird scene before me, and often, as I
have sat thus on a winter evening, the room
well lit, the bright fire throwing forth a ruddy
glow, Whittier's beautiful poem, "Snow Bound,"
was most forcibly brought to mind.
	Again, who does not love to view the trees
on a clear frosty morning; they stand forth
draped in their pure white robes of snow, and
glistening until one's eyes can hardly stand
the radiance. All, all in loveliness; it seems
that one can never tire feasting on the glories
and beauties that our Father has decorated this
mother earth with. I thank God that I have
been given an appreciative mind to enjoy all
this loveliness of nature.
	How many beautiful winter scenes of sweet
childhood are recalled to my mind. How
with eager haste, hood and mittens were
donned preparatory to skipping off to school,
snow sometimes even with the fence as spoken
of in "Snow Bound," would have a hard
crust over it, so that a passage over it was
perfectly safe. Then, too, there would be the
intermission between lessons, when sports, such
as snow-balling, skating on ice,or riding down-
hill on home-made sleds were enjoyed with
great hilarity and mrith, until the silvery
tinkling of the bell warning us that our time
for play was up, was heard by our unwilling
ears, then all would return with haste and con-
fusion to resume our lessons with glowing
cheeks, quick breath, and fast beating heart
from over exertion. All is so plain to my mind's
view I can almost imagine myself a child once
again.
	The winter brings its pleasures and we
should all try to have nothing to do with any
but such amusements as will ennoble and edify
us. Then again there is so much that mothers
can do to keep their children from mixing up
with pleasure that would be a source of evil to
them. Make home pleasant on winter eve-

[Column 2]

nings. That is one great remedy for keeping
our young from inculcating in their minds a
taste for walking the streets, a place
where either sex will surely meet with so-
ciety that is entirely unfit for children of
Latter-day Saints that are desirous of bring-
ing them up in the paths of righteousness and
truth. A sister, while taking me through her
house, after fall cleaning, for the purpose of
showing me her arrangements for the winter,
after entering the family sitting room said,
"this room I have fitted up neatly for my son
and daughter who work during the day, and
are fond of going out in the evening, especially
my son. I wished to do all I could to make it
so attractive for them that they would not
care to leave home to seek other society. This
sofa I have placed here in this cosy corner ex-
pressly for my son M—— to lounge on
after partaking of his supper, as he is
generally very tired. I have found after once
resorting to this cosy retreat, with book in
hand, with but few exceptions, by the time he
usually went his way down town, he really
seemed disinclined, I might say, (laughing)
too lazy and comfortable, hence his evenings
are really spent at home." What wonder! I
exclaimed, as I glanced around the room. Fac-
ing the south was a large bay window hand-
somely decorated with beautiful plants, some
large, airy and light. Two windows facing the
west were also well dressed with ivy and
other lovely plants. No dark heavy curtain
obstructed the light, but instead were those of
thin pure white texture. A beautiful fire-
place, a center table drawn up in close prox-
imity to the sofa well laden with choice read-
ing, chosen from the book case standing in the
corner. Many things passed through my mind
as I took all this in. I think this would be a
good lesson for all, as we are never too old to
learn. I wonder how many young boys and girls
could be seen on the streets at night, it all
adopted the rule of this sister mentioned above.
No matter how little we possess of worldly
goods we can make home attractive and
pleasant and the long winter evening is the
time when much good can be done.
	IDA.


A BRETON CUSTOM.

	A Vienna letter to the San Francisco Alta
says: On Michaelmas day all the young
women in a district of Brittany who desire to
enter the married state assemble on a particu-
lar bridge, tricked out in all their finery, and
take their seats on the parapet. The eligible
young men from Penze and the neighboring
parishes presently make their appearance.
They scan the features of the seated damsels,
and when at length a swain has fixed his choice
on a particular nymph, he appraoches and
offers her his hand to help her to the ground.
If she accepts his hand for this particular ser-
vice she accepts it for life. The parents are
never very far off on these occasions, and if
they raise no objections, the young couple
shake hands, and the wedding soon follows.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Srimati Swaran Kumari Deyi is the editor
of a well known journal in Bengali, the
Bharati. She is not the only Bengali lady
who has distinguished herself in the field of
journalistic literature, as the late Bama Sun-
dari Devi started a vernacular magazine and
conducted it with ability for many years.
	Lady Dufferin, in her efforts to introduce 
women physicians in India, is encouraged by
the high priests of Bengal. They say that
she deserves the earnest support of every Hin-
doo who has an attachment for his national


customs and manners. As native women can-
not be educated rapidly enough to fill these
positions, the field is an inviting one for the
many young women physicians of England
and the United States.
	In Norway, a lady has a seat on the Royal
Commission to inquire into the condition of
schools. This is the first time a lady has
served on this Commission. And at the fifth
Norwegian school meeting, which was held last
August, ladies were admitted as equal co-work-
ers with the men. The Transcript says: "It
is worthy of note that, while Norwegian
clergyman have hitherto been greatly opposed
to women taking any part in public work,
not a single one, so far, has objected to their
speaking in public at these school meetings."


MISCELLANEOUS. 
	Frankness speaks of those present as if they
were absent; and charity of the absent ones as
if they were present.
	Precept is example written in sand, and
washed away by the tide; example is instruc-
tion engraved on the rock.
	A handsome woman pleases the eye, but a
good woman pleases the heart. The one is a
jewel; and the other is a treasure.
	The perfection of conversation is not to play
a regular sonata, but like the AEolian harp, to
await the inspiration of the passing breeze.
	Education commences at the mother's knee,
and every word spoken within the hearing of
a child tends toward the formation of charac-
ter.
	The man whose soul is in his work finds his
best reward in the work itself. The joy of
achievement is vastly beyond the joy of re-
ward.
	"Quarrel," a little schoolgirl parsed, "is
plural." "Why?" asked the teacher. "Be-
cause it takes two to make one," said the 
child.
	There is a respect due to age, but there is
also a respect due to youth, the lack of which
accounts for many a failure in the household
and in systems of education.
	"Now, you young scamp," said Binks, senior,
as he took hold of his youngest to give him a
"dressing," "I'll teach you what is what!" "No,
papa," replied the incorrigible, "You'll teach
me which is switch."
	An American lessee tells the following with
reference to the late General Grant—"The first
act was over, and we were chatting in the
wings with our manager, when one of the
boys rushed up to tell us that General Grant
and family were in one of the boxes. A flush
of gratified pride mounted to the managerial
face, followed by a look of agonized doubt as
he evidently reflected that perhaps the general
had come in with an order. 'Did you send
him a box, Robson?' he asked me; and, on my
replying in the negative, he pulled a card out
of his pocket, and, scribbling a line on it, told
the boy to take it to the box-office and bring
back an answer. The boy rushed off, his head
full of the general, and returned in a few
minutes with the same card, which he handed
to the manager. A ghastly look crossed his
face as he read it, and, without a word, he
handed it to me. The first line read, in the
rather shaky managerial caligraphy, 'Did Gen.
Grant pay for his box?' while underneath ap-
peared, 'No; but my son Fred did.—U. S.
Grant.' The boy had taken it to the box in-
stead of the box-office."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 23 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 15, 1885.


THE EXECUTIVE THRUST.
					---
	On Monday, the 7th inst., upon the assembling at
the Capitol in Washington of the body of law-
makers composing the Forty-ninth Congress,
Grover Cleveland, President of the United States,
in pursuance of a constitutional duty, proceeded
to favor them, and at extreme length, with a recital
of the information at his command regarding the
state of the Union; and to give such recommenda-
tions as he deemed might be of service to them
and productive of good to the commonwealth.
The various political, diplomatic and financial
issues of the hour, consisting of such topics as
foreign affairs, commercial treaties, tariff regula-
tions, currency, domestic improvements, naval
affairs, the Indian and Mormon questions, and
civil service, were all met and dilated upon with a
zeal highly gratifying to His Excellency's partisans
and sympathizers, and equally obnoxious to those
of an opposite political persuasion. Passing over,
without comment, all that portion of the document
which is without special local interest, we furnish
space for the homily on the Mormon question, to
which the careful attention of our readers is di-
rected. Much had been hoped by our readers is di-
rected. Much had been hoped by the Federal
ring here and by our enemies generally, from the
first published suggestions of the new Chief
Magistrate upon the absorbing topic; and certain-
ly all such have cause to feel gratified at the some-
what liberal mention accorded it. A close perusal,
however, fails to reveal that venom and that un-
concealed hostility which the President's apparent
apathy had given some reason to expect. Here
are his remarks in full:--
	"In the Territory of Utah the law of the
United States passed for the suppression of poly-
gamy has been energetically and faithfully
executed during the past year with measurably
good results. A number of convictions have been
secured for unlawful cohabitation and in some
cases pleas of guilty have been entered and slight
punishment imposed upon a promise by the ac-
cused that they would not again offend against the
law, nor advise, counsel, aid or abet in any way
its violation by others. The Utah Commissioners
express opinions based upon such information as
they were able to obtain, that but few polygamous
marriages have taken place in the Territory during
the last year. They further report that while
there cannot be found upon the registration lists
of voters the name of a man actually guilty of
polygamy, and while none of that class are hold-
ing office, yet, at the last election in the Territory,
all the officers elected, except in one county, were
men who, though not actually living in the prac-
tice of polygamy, subscribed to the doctrine of
polygamous marriage, as a divine revelation and
a law unto all, higher and more binding upon the
conscience than any human law, local or national.
Thus is the strange spectacle presented of a com-
munity protected by a republican form of govern-
ment to which they owe allegiance, sustaining by
their suffrage a principle and a belief which sets
at naught that obligation of absolute obedience to
the law of the land, which lies at the foundation
of republican institutions. The strength, per-
petuity and the destiny of the nation rest upon
our homes, established by the law of God,
guarded by parental care, regulated by parental
authority and sanctified by parental love. These
are not the homes of polygamy. The mothers of
our land who rule the nation as they would the
characters, and guide the actions of their sons,
live according to God's holy ordinance, and each,
pure and happy in the exclusive love of the father
of her children, sheds the warm light of true
womanhood, unperverted and unpolluted, upon
all within her pure and wholesome family circle.
These are not the cheerless, crushed and un-
womanly mothers of polygamy. The fathers of
our families are the best citizens of our Republic;
wife and children are the sources of patriotism,
and conjugal and parental affection beget devo-
tion to the country. The man who undefiled with
plural marriage, is surrounded in his single home
with a wife and children, has a stake in the coun-
try which inspires with respect for its laws, and
courage for its defense. These are not the fathers
of polygamous families. There is no feature of
this practice or the system which sanctions it,
which is not opposed to all that is of value in our
institutions. There should be no relaxation in
the firm, but just execution of the law now in
operation, and I should be glad to approve such
further discreet legislation as will rid this country
of this blot upon its fame."
	To which may be added the following sentence,
published as part of the message in some of the
Eastern papers, but not transmitted, through some
inexplicable omission, to the Western press:
	"Since the people upholding polygamy in our
Territories are reinforced by immigration from
other lands, I recommend that a law be passed to
prevent the importation of Mormons into this
country."
	Some of the President's statements regarding
this "Mormon" matter, not only in the paragraphs
above quoted, but also in other published utter-
ances with which he is credited, it is easy to see
are based upon very unreliable information. For
instance, few will be found, even among the anti-
Mormons themselves, who regard the "energetic
enforcement" of the Edmunds law as having been
attended with "measurably good results." As
for those fair-minded, honorable inhabitants of
the Territory who have permanent interests at
stake or who desire the welfare of the country
and the return of the prosperity usually enjoyed,
they certainly do not realize the "good results"
spoken of. Neither do those who, because of a
tenet of religious faith, are compelled either to re-
nounce principles dearer than life and recede from
covenants more binding than anything human
can be,or find themselves subjected to the mockery
of a trial and the indignity of an imprisonment, or
seek self-preservation in absence from their homes
and all the endearments which the word implies.
And that the "faithful enforcement" and the
"good results" are not satisfactory even to the
band of conspirators who wish so devoutly our
entire destruction is shown with sufficient clear-
ness by the fact that new and more drastic reme-
dies are continually suggested and urged to cure
the evil they so piously and purely complain of.
Who, then, regards the results as measurably
good? More than this, the less said by the
Executive and government generally about the
manner of the enforcement of this obnoxious bill
the better. If the President can find any cause to
congratulate himself, Congress and the courts
that "in some cases pleas of guilty have been
entered and slight punishment imposed upon a
promise by the accused that they would not again
offend against the law, nor advise, counsel, aid or
abet in any way its violation by others," they
ought to be welcome to all the honor they can
make out of it. It is not a very creditable pro-
ceeding, from a legal standpoint, to impose a
punishment for something which may be done in
the future, while ignoring or passing over lightly
an equally grave offense already plead guilty to as
committed in the past. Nor would the tempting
of weaker men to violate their most solemn oaths,
with simple offers of immunity and friendship,
seem to merit any particular approval under any
circumstances. As to the correctness of the
opinions of the Utah Commissioners, whose
sources of information are so various and so con-
flicting, we have no means of deciding.
	Mr. Cleveland regards it a "strange spectacle"
that the "Mormons" should vote for and elect to
the offices within their gift, men whose religious
ideas and sympathies are identical with their own
--in other words that the people should place in
office men belonging to the People's party. We
wonder what His Excellency would expect! To
a Democrat elected by Democratic votes or to a
Republican elected by Republican votes there
should not be anything phenomenal in the fact
alluded to. To vote for one's friends instead of
one's enemies seems not only a prerogative, but a
duty, clear as noonday. In this the law of Con-
gress is not in any manner insulted, for the law
does not, and the Constitution declares that any
law shall not, interfere with or presume to dictate
in matters of belief.
	"Our homes, established by the law of God,
guarded by parental care, regulated by parental
authority and sanctified by parental love" are
none the less so that they are "the homes of
polygamy." "The cheerless, crushed and un-
womanly mothers" are not the mothers of "Mor-
mon" polygamy. No purer, happier, truer women
can be found than those in these valleys of the
mountains who "live according to God's holy or-
dinance" as revealed and testified to their hus-
bands and themselves; and not only from our own
past and present, but also from our future history
will the fact be demonstrated that the Republic
has and can have no better citizens than the
fathers of our families. We maintain and have
abundantly proven that there are many features
"of this practice" not opposed "to all that is of
value in our institutions." On all these points we,
who live in and are familiar with the system of
marriage so distasteful to American "civilization,"
beg the liberty of taking direct issue with the
Chief Executive, who knows absolutely nothing
about it, other than that which he has been told;
and we consider our statements, even without the
proof of which they are so easily susceptible,
better than his.
	In conclusion, President Cleveland expresses
his desire to approve further discreet legislation
on this subject, and suggests that there be no re-
laxation in the firm but just execution of the
present law--which one sentence is in fact about
the pith and substance of his message on the whole
question. It is, of course, to be regretted that
the Evarts scheme of prohibiting "Mormon" immi-
gration should have been resurrected and thus
dignified in so important a document as a Presi-
dent's message. The fact that the clause was not
telegraphed West with the body of the message
would almost indicate that somebody in the East
was ashamed of it.
	After all, though, the recommendations of the
President and the enactments of Congress, how-
ever favorable or inimical to us they may be, will
affect but slightly if at all the final result. The
Lord of Hosts, the Ruler of the whole Universe,
has certain designs to accomplish, and whatever
may occur will be found pointing toward their ac-
complishment. This far, at least, the Latter-day
Saints are believers in what is termed destiny;
and among the faithful--those who walk day by
day in the light of the spirit--there is no feeling


of uncertainty or fear as to the outcome of the
cause, with which, with greater or less whole-
heartedness, we have all identified ourselves.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Territorial Legislature meets on Monday,
the 11th of January.
	ON Monday, the 14th inst, the Supreme Court
of the United States decided the appeal taken by
Angus M. Cannon on writ of error from the Third
District Court of this Territory. The definition
of the term cohabitation as laid down by Judge
Zane was the point in argument, and it was affirmed,
with Judges Miller and Field dissenting. 
	THE new Relief Society Hall of the Seventeenth
Ward, Salt Lake City, was dedicated on the 8th
inst., by prayer from Apostle John Henry Smith.
The building is of brick, is 20x30 ft. in size and
cost, with the piece of land on which it stands
and some little incidentals, $1,484.50, all of which
is paid for. Remarks were made on the occassion
by Bro. Nathan Davis, who was Bishop when the
society was organized, Apostle Smith, who suc-
ceeded him in that office, Bishop Tingey, the
present incumbent, and Bro. Alonzo E. Hyde, his
counselor. A report of the society's workings
was also read by the secretary, in which the highly
creditable showing is made that since its organiza-
tion $5,431.83 has been contributed to the poor.
An agreeable entertainment at the house of Sister
Joseph Bull concluded the ceremonies of the
day.


A TRIBUTE OF HONOR.

	At the regular monthly meeting of the Board of
Directors and Executive Committee of the Deseret
Hospital Association, held Monday, December
17th, 1885, the ladies very feelingly expressed their
regret at the loss of one of their active members,
Sister Phebe W. Woodruff. She had been asso-
ciated with them in all their labors ever since the
establishment of the institution, and was always
on hand to perform her portion of the work devolv-
ing upon the Board. Sister Woodruff has al-
ways been recognized by the ladies as wise in
counsel, ever ready with good suggestions, and
had at all times faithfully discharged her duty as
a member of the Board and Executive Commit-
tee.


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	Synopsis of the semi-monthly meeting held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
November 28th, 1885, Counselor B. W. Smith
presiding. Singing. Prayer by Mrs. E. B.
Wells, and singing the hymn, “O my Father.”
Minutes of the previous meeting read by the
Secretary, Miss Jane Smalie, and accepted; also
minutes of the Y. L. of the 1st and 20th wards,
and P. A. of the 5th, 10th, 20th, 11th and 21st
wards.
	Sister B. W. Smith expressed her pleasure at
hearing the minutes, and presented some matters
of business pertaining to the Deseret Hospital.
Some sisters were wanted there to do some sew-
ing, which was satisfactorily arranged for the next
Friday. Mrs. Smith also reminded the sisters
that the Relief Society Conference of this Stake
would be held on Friday, Dec. 11th, in that hall.
She then gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters, and prayed the Spirit of God to rest upon
the congregation.
	Sister E. B. Wells said we ought to appreciate
the many blessings we have, and remember to ac-
knowledge the hand of the Lord in all things.
Our enemies are trying to push us to the very
extreme, to see if we will rebel; the freedom we
once enjoyed is greatly in contrast with our present
circumstances and surroundings; we have not
the peace and quiet of former days. Urged the


sisters to be wise and encourage their husbands'
brothers and sons to obey the law of God, and not
to falter, and let our conversation be of an instruc-
tive nature, calculated to build up, for the day is
coming when we will need a strong testimony for
ourselves. Spoke of the danger of apostasy, and
the sentiments of some men in authority on the
subject of the present persecutions, who thought
they were necessary to purify the people."
	Sister M. A. Pratt made some very timely re-
marks, and also referred to those who could not
endure the trials and hardships, and if there were
only a few left, and out of these only one half
with oil in their lamps, it gave us food for serious
consideration. She also very earnestly addressed
young wives, counseling them to aid their hus-
bands in performing the duties devolving upon
them.
	Sister Mortenson bore a faithful testimony, and
Sister Mary A. Freeze spoke of home missionary
work; thought we should improve our opportuni-
ties in spiritual labors, and carry out the revela-
tions that have been given, instead of seeking
after any more. We are still a long way short of
being perfect. Spoke of patronizing our enemies,
and thought we ought to make a great effort
against being led away by the vanities of the
world.
	Sisters Mary Gerber and Ann Player each bore
a strong testimony, and the congregation united
in singing a verse or two of the hymn, "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
	Sister Osmer and Sister M. A. E. Watmough
each made a few remarks, and bore a testimony.
Some notices of conference were given out, and
meeting adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
"Lord dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Mrs. 
Julia Howe.


LETTER FROM DELEGATE CAINE.

	The Omaha Herald of the 11th contains the
following letter written by Utah's Delegate, Hon.
John T. Caine, to President Cleveland:

		HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
					Washington, D. C., Dec. 7.

   SIR.—Since our conversation this morning
additional sensational statements have been sent
from Omaha and Washington, and published
throughout the East, which are so false and such
outrageous misrepresentations of the facts in re-
gard to the actual situation in Utah that I am con-
strained to lay before you the truth.
	The adjutant general of the army apparently
authorizes the statement that "the Secretary of
the Interior and the Attorney General received
reports from the Governor, United States Marshal,
and other officials there, to the effect that the
disposition of the Mormons is quite offensive, that
demonstrations are being made of a threatening
character, and that the slightest accident is likely
to cause a riot in which the residences and offices
of the United States judges, district attorney and
other officials may be mobbed and perhaps per-
sonal violence attempted," etc., etc.
	You, sir, and your constitutional advisers have
been deceived by designing men who seek to
create in the East the impression that the Mormon
people are unruly and turbulent. The ordering
of additional troops to Utah is the result of a de-
liberate attempt on the part of the republican
United States officials there to create the impres-
sion that there is danger of a Mormon outbreak.
The object of this is, first, to make it difficult for
a democratic administration to remove the officials,
and second, to influence Congress to enact legisla-
tion in the interest of a desperate ring of adven-
turers who seek to control the government of the
Territory in spite of the fact that they constitute
an infinitesimal portion of the population and
have no interest in the material welfare of the
great bulk of the people.

[Column 2]
   The Mormons have been subjected to a sys-
tematic attempt to goad them to a hostile act.
The Federal judiciary has persistently ruled so as
to shield disreputable non-Mormons from punish-
ment for "lewd and lascivious conduct," while
Mormons have been persecuted with the utmost
rigor for unlawful cohabitation under the so-called
Edmunds act, which makes it a crime for men to
cohabit with more than one woman. The chief
justice of the Territory and a majority of the
court have held that the Edmunds law applies
only to Mormons, and a man who was arrested
on a charge of debauching his sister-in-law was
discharged by Chief Justice Zane on the ground
that the Edmunds law was not intended to be a
general corrective of morals. When a deputy
marshal, a married man, was arrested by the
police on a charge of "lewd and lascivious con-
duct" with a woman not his wife, Judge Zane on
habeas corpus proceedings promptly dismissed
the accused on the ground that adultery and forni-
cation was not lewd and lascivious conduct unless
it was practiced in public. On the other hand,
prominent Mormons, who had separated them-
selves from their plural wives immediately on the
passage of the Edmunds law, and had endeavored
to honestly obey that law, were indicted for un-
lawful cohabitation, and when they asked the
right to prove that they had not had sexual inter-
course with their plural wives, Chief Justice Zane
ruled that such evidence was immaterial and irrele-
vant; that unless they had publicly abandoned
their plural wives they were guilty of "holding
them out" as their wives, which constituted their
offense of unlawful cohabitation under the Ed-
munds law. It mattered not that in the entire
history of civil and criminal judicature, no
English or American court had ever held that co-
habitation meant other than sexual intercourse,
the Mormons had to go to jail, because they did
not publicly renounce their plural wives.
	In the execution of the Edmunds act the utmost
latitude has been given to the marshal and his
deputies. Domicilliary visits had been common,
and spies and informers had been encouraged to
ply their infamous trade. When a reputable Mor-
mon resented a gratuitous insult by a deputy
marshal on the street, he was fined by Judge
Zane and sent to jail for five days on the untruth-
ful charge of attempting to intimidate an officer
of his court. The stories about attempts to lynch
Collin, and the gathering of Mormons for that
purpose, and the necessity for placing Collin in
the hands of the military for protection, are alto-
gether false. The sensational reports telegraphed
from Omaha about a mob going to Fort Douglas
and demanding Collin are manufactured for a pur-
pose. There is no necessity for additional troops
in Utah. You, sir, as well as your advisers, have
been imposed upon by Governor Murray and
Marshal Ireland. These representations are
maliciously false. The Mormons understand per-
fectly that every effort has been made and is be-
ing made, by characterless federal officials to
provoke an outbreak. The Mormons know that
they would be doing themselves an irreparable
injury by attempting any violence or unlawful act.
They have not, under the most intolerable and un-
justifiable conduct of federal officials, disturbed
the peace or in any way resisted the execution of
the laws. The Mormons ask only for an impar-
tial administration of the laws, and just treatment.
They have appealed to the Supreme Court of the
United States and are patiently awaiting a decision
by that high tribunal on the rulings of Judge Zane.
They believe that his extraordinary interpretation
of the law will be rebuked. The Mormons do
not object to the presence of the troops in their
midst. They do object, however, to the sending
of troops on false pretenses. They object to be-
ing misrepresented and set before the world as de-
fiant, turbulent, and given to mob violence, when
all their history proves to the contrary. Those


who have demanded and secured reinforcements
sent to Fort Douglas have not been animated by
an honest purpose, but with the object of annoy-
ing, and if possible, of goading the Mormons to
violence. The Mormons insist that the reasons
assigned for sending additional troops to Salt
Lake are outrageously false.
	Very respectfully,
		JOHN T. CAINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REVIEW OF THE MANUSCRIPT
FOUND.

TO THE EXPONENT:
	Having perused the late publication from a
verbatim copy of the original "Manuscript
Found," I must say that I was surprised to find
such a shallow document, purporting to be the
"origin" of the Book of Mormon, and written by
the renowned reverend, Solomon Spaulding, who
has been held up to the world as a man of great
learning and piety.
	One would think that those claiming relation,
and who have been so eager to obtain it to expose
"Mormonism," would be thoroughly chagrined
when they discover the style, etc., in which this
"manuscript story" is written, and wish that it
had been burned with other rubbish before it left
Honolulu, more especially Mrs. Dickinson, "who
is getting up a book to show that he, Spaulding,
was the real author of the Book of Mormon," as
well as the priests and people who have hashed
up this story into various shapes as it suited their
vile purposes, from the time that this work called
Mormonism was first proclaimed by Joseph Smith
the Prophet, to prove that it was a fraud,and
that Sidney Rigdon stole the manuscript from a
printing office in Pittsburg. It is a well known
fact that the Book of Mormon was published be-
fore Sidney Rigdon ever heard of Joseph Smith
or the Book of Mormon, and we have cause to
feel grateful for the exposure of this fiction, which
has been the delight of our intolerant and bigoted
opposers to harp upon for the last fifty years, as it
will give the world an opportunity to judge for
themselves of the truth or falsity of this work.
	James T. Cobb, who once made an hypocritical
profession of faith in Mormonism, published a
most vile and insulting letter to President Taylor,
in which he called Solomon Spaulding a "clever,
eccentric collegiate," and "author of the (unper-
verted) romance of the Book of Mormon." Near
the close he said: "You say you are for the truth,
but how can that be, when you defend the Book
of Mormon, which I have proven and can prove
to you, sir, to be a lie." "But," using his own
words, "no lie can last: it has the seeds of its
own death within itself."
	The "humiliation" of such is "inevitable;" if
not here, "beyond the clouds and beyond the
tomb," when he that loveth, as well as he that
maketh a lie shall be judged, and when all dis-
guises and all self-delusions shall be stripped
away.
	HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


[Column 1]
			WEDDINGS.

	The announcement of a wedding often furnishes
me food for reflection. Are the contracting parties,
the young couple who are thus forming a life
partnership, suited to each other, physically and
intellectually? Are they taking this all-important
step understandingly, and after mature considera-
tion? And above all, have they sought for Divine
guidance from the Supreme King, who so well
understands the works of His hands, before doing
that on which so much is depending, which will,
most likely, "make or mar their whole future
lives" on this earth, and no doubt have a weighty
bearing on the life to come? These, and many
other questions, which time alone can answer,
force themselves on my mind.
	There are many things which should be care-

[Column 2]
fully considered by young people, when taking
upon themselves the sacred obligations of hus-
band or wife. It is not an event to be lightly con-
sidered. Do they love each other with a pure,
unselfish love? Have they perfect faith and
confidence in each other?
	These things are indispensable to their future
happiness. Young people, who understand what
the Latter-day Saints do, cannot, in my opinion,
feel perfectly satisfied and happy with a com-
panion who does not possess the Spirit of God,
and is not striving to live a life of honesty and up-
rightness.
	Many trials will be encountered in this relation-
ship; it will be necessary for each to make many
sacrifices to each other's comfort and wishes, at
times, owing to the unavoidable differences in
disposition and training, but whether these sacri-
fices will be made willingly or not, will depend
greatly on the strength and quality of the love ex-
isting between them. They should be ever willing
to overlook each other's faults, and assist by
kindness and gentleness, to overcome and correct
them.
	A young man, before asking a young lady to be-
come his wife, should observe well her character
and disposition, and whether she will be likely to
make a good, faithful wife and mother, and try to
ascertain if she will be united with him in living
his religion and serving God.
	A young lady should, in turn, make it a matter
of sober thought and sound judgment, to ascertain
if he, who has honored her with an offer of his
hand and affections, is worthy of a pure woman's
love; if he is striving to serve God; if he enter-
tains a proper respect for her sex, and if his
actions and general character are such that she
can respect and honor him.
	By thus making a careful selection, and taking a
consistent course, much misery and unhappiness,
discontent and separation, with their attendant
evils, might be avoided, even though "marriage is
a lottery."
	A wedding in our community to-day, when
grand receptions, beautiful wedding dresses and
magnificent wedding cake, with an endless variety
of presents from the guests are the rule, may
make a greater stir in the community, but to the
bride and bridegroom, their obligations to each
other are precisely the same as when, a few
years ago, the young people and their parents
spent less time and means to make a grand dis-
play; when their limited means and joint savings
were spent in a frugal manner to procure the rea
necessary articles to go to housekeeping with;
when they started out together with strong, loving
hearts, and willing hands to make a home. Was
there not more real comfort and happiness then
than now, when they start with all the comforts
their parents have been able to accumulate after
many years of ardious toil? Truly, this is an age
of advancement. It is to be hoped that those
who are thus favored may have judgment to act
wisely, that they may not come to the place where
their parents, many of them, began—with nothing.
							MARGUERITE.

	P. S. The EXPONENT increases in interest.
The household hints; receipts for fancy work,
etc., are a valuable addition


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			SAN LUIS STAKE.

   Minutes of the first semi-annual conference
of the Relief Society of the San Luis Stake of
Zion, held at Manassa, Colorado, June 1st,
1885, President Martha E. Smith presiding.
After the usual opening exercises, President S.
S. Smith made a few opening remarks. Said,
"It is the first time the sisters have had an
opportunity of meeting in this capacity in this
Stake. It is just as necessary that the sisters
should obtain a testimony of this work, and be
able to bear it to each other, and to teach their
families and children the principles of the
Gospel, as it is that the brethren should. Some
of the families of the Saints have been trained
almost exclusively by the wives and mothers of
men who have spent their time preaching the
Gospel, and in doing whatever was required of
them." He also gave many other good instruc-
tions.
   The following wards were then represented:
Manassa, by Prest. Hannah Christison;
Ephraim, Prest. A. M. Rasmussen; Richfield,
Prest. M.A. Berthlesen. The different branches
of the Society were in a flourishing condition.
Many of the sisters then bore their testimonies
to the truth of this work, and gave good ad-
vice and instruction.
   Prest. Martha E. Smith was well pleased
with the reports and the remarks made by the
sisters. "We all have a work to perform, and
if we are humble, and desire the blessing of
the Lord, He will assist us." Asked the Lord
to bless all who are engaged in this work.
   After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.:  Meeting opened
by singing, and prayer by Elder S. C. Berthle-
sen. The Stake organization not being com-
plete, Sister Hattie Beers was chosen and sus-
tained as Second Counselor in the Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society; Sister Semantha
T. Boice was chosen and sustained as Secretary
and Treasurer.
   Elder Dalton made some excellent remarks.
Said, "The sisters are entitled to all the gifts,
privileges and blessings in connection with the
brethren, that are within the grasp of humanity.
The Relief Society is one of the best organiza-
tions among the Latter-day Saints." Showed
what relation the sisters sustained to the Church
and kingdom of God; made many other good
remarks, gave good instruction, and bore a
strong testimony to the truth of this work.
Remarks were also make by Bishop Rasmussen,
J. C. Dalton and others of the leading
brethren.
   Sister A. M. Rasmussen was then sustained,
and set apart by Prest. S. S. Smith, as a mid-
wife and nurse to the sick. Sister Beers was
then set apart by Elder Dalton, Sister Boice
by Elder W. Christison, to their respective
offices. A good spirit prevailed during the
conference; we truly had a time of rejoicing
together, long to be remembered by those who
attended.
   After singing "The Spirit of God," etc., and
benediction by Martin Christison, conference
adjourned for six months.
		MARTHA E. SMITH, President,
		SEMANTHA T. BOICE, Secretary.

	LOGAN PRIMARY CONFERENCE

   The First District Primary Conference met
in the Logan Tabernacle at 10 a.m., November
14th, 1885, Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen
presiding. The meeting was called to order
by Prest. Jane E. Molen. Singing. Prayer
by Sister A. Barber. Singing. "Gladly Meet-
ing." Prest. Molen then invited all the Presi-
dents of the different Primaries to the stand.
The First Ward was then represented by
Prest. Maud Burton. She said that the child-
ren of that ward had made a very nice wreath
of hair flowers, which they were going to
present to the Temple. Hulda Hanson, of
that ward, then gave a recitation, entitled,
"The Ship at Sea." The Second Ward was
represented by Prest. Lydia Baker. A song,
entitled, "The Weary Gleaners," was then ren-
dered by Miss Nellie Kimball and Lizzie
Baker of that ward. The Third Ward was
represented by Prest. Sarah Tarbet. Annie
Tarbet, of that ward, then sang a song entitled,
"If papa were only ready." The Fourth Ward


[Column 1]

was represented by Prest. Harriet Robbins.
Maggie Smith, of that ward, then gave a recita-
tion, entitled, "Little Bennie." The Fifth
Ward was represented by the president, Sister
Jacobs. Emma Bunts, of that ward, gave a
recitation, entitled, "It is anybody's business?"
	Sister Jane E. Molen and Eliza Snow
addressed the children and gave them some
very good and valuable instruction. Thomas
W. Pike and Master Steward, of the Sixth
Ward, rendered a dialogue, entitled, "The lost
pocket book."
	The meeting was then adjourned until 2 p.m.
Singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet." Benediction by Sister Pike.
	The afternoon session met at 2 p.m., and
was called to order by Prest. Jane E. Molen.
Singing, "Love at Home." Prayer by Harriet
Robbins. Singing, "Beautiful Zion." A
dialogue was then given by two little girls of
the First Ward. Providence Ward was then
represented by Prest. Prosina Trabar. She
said that the little boys of that ward were all
braiding themselves a nice straw hat, and said
that the young ladies of that ward helped her
a great deal. Margaret Campell and Joan
Marler, of Providence, sang a song, entitled, 
"Stay on the Farm." Fannie Farnes, of the
Second Ward, gave a recitation, entitled,
"Christmas Eve." Nancy Thomas and Lizzie
Evans, of the Third Ward, then rendered a
song, entitled. "Sweet hour of prayer." The
Sixth Ward was represented by the Prest. Si-
ter Pike, and Carrie Seward, of that ward, gave
a recitation, entitled, "Did not Think." Lulu
Hammond, John Zollings, Andrew Hammond
and David Thomas, of Providence, rendered a
dialogue, entitled, "Smoking." Miss Kate
Hanson, of the Sixth Ward, gave a recitation,
which was followed by a recitation by Celia
Morrell, of the Third Ward, entitled, "My
Mother's Bible." Tennie Ellis, of the Fifth
Ward, gave a recitation, entitled, "Little Ben."
Sister A. Barber gave the children some ex-
cellent advice. Della Maugham, of the Sixth
Ward, gave a recitation, entitled, "Captured,
but not Conquered." A number of little girls
from Providence then sang a song, entitled,
"Never leave us." Sister Zina Young made
some very good remarks. A little girl, of the
Fifth Ward, sang a song. Bernnice Leading-
ham, of the Second Ward, gave a recitation,
entitled, "Safely Through."
	Prest. Molen spoke a little while to the child-
ren, and the meeting was then adjourned until
further notice. Singing, "Did you think to
Pray?" Benediction by Sister Mary Clark.
	ALICE PEARSON, Secretary.

SUMMIT STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Summit Stake convened in the
meeting house at Coalville, on Friday, Sep.
18th, 1885, Prest. M. J. Atwood presiding.
After the opening exercises, the usual business
was proceeded with, after which the condition
of the following branches of the Relief So-
ciety were reported favorably: Kamas, by
Sister S. Harder; Rockport, E. Vernon; Wan-
ship, A. Boyer; Hoytsville, P. Holt; Coalville,
M. Robinson; Upton, A. Clark. Statistical
and financial reports from the various wards
comprising the Stake were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Prest. M. J. Atwood spoke at considerable
length, referring in the course of her remarks,
to the Relief Society Fair now in progress;
congratulated the sisters upon the result of
their efforts, as shown by the splendid display
of their handiwork there exhibited. Spoke
of her recent visits to the various wards, and of
the general good feeling that prevailed through-
out the stake; exhorted the sisters to continue
on in the good work, and referred to the bene-
fit that the several branches of the Society

[Column 2]

were to the local organizations of the Stake,
and gave some excellent instructions to the
Society officers pertaining to their duties as
such, showing, in various ways, the good
they could accomplish. Closed her very in-
teresting discourse by invoking the blessings of
God upon all the faithful.
	Coun. Ruth Park made a few timely and
appropriate remarks, thanking all who had
taken an active part in aiding the Fair, and
for the very creditable exhibit they had made.
Conference adjourned sine die.

	The Society Fair held in Coalville, on the
17th and 18th of September, in aid of the
new Stake Assembly Building now being
erected in Coalville, was the second gotten up
by the Relief Society, Young Ladies' and
Primary Associations of the Summit Stake.
Notwithstanding the dull times experienced
during the past six months, the nice sum of
over eight hundred dollars was cleared by the
Fair, making near twenty-five hundred dollars
that has been raised by the above mentioned
associations towards building our beautiful
Stake House, which, when completed, will be
a great credit to our Stake, and I may say that
the building will be surpassed by none in the
Territory for its architectural beauty and ap-
pearance. Our sisters feel justly proud of their
efforts and success in the part they have taken
in aiding in its construction.
	The completion of the building is greatly to
be desired, as we have no house of sufficient
size to accommodate even a small minority of
the members of our Church at quarterly Stake
conference.
	The Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
desire to express their thanks to all who have
assisted by labor, means, or otherwise, in ac-
complishing so much in aid of so desirable and
necessary an object.
	J. S. B.


Woman's Exponent.


A FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The young ladies of East Bountiful held
their first fair Oct. 28th, 29th and 30th, in the
Central School House. Through the courtesy
of Sister Jane Holt, the President, Sister
Wealthy Clark and I attended; we found it very
nice indeed. It reflected great credit on their
worthy President and her energetic Counselors,
and also on the members, in the arrangement
of the goods, and their responding with many
useful and pretty articles. You will find by
the appraising that they are taught by example
as well as precept. The example, well followed,
would reflect great credit on the young ladies
in general, and would show we were doing
something worthy the name we hold.
	The best hand sewing, a baby dress, finest
case of wool flowers, best door mat and the
handsomest hearth rug, Mrs. Jane Holt; a
lovely quilt, best, pieced by hand, Miss Etta
Burningham; best knitted quilt, Mrs. Hannah
Briggs; next best, Mrs. Emmerette Sessions;
beautiful embroidered table cover, Miss
Caroline Rampton; best knitted hose, Mrs.
Sarah C. Sessions; best embroidered under
skirt, Mrs. Annie Barlow; best wool flowers, on
velvet, Miss Effie Willey; best crochet under-
shirt for child, Mrs. Martha Willey; best
crochet lace, Miss Ada Smedley; best crochet
tidy, worthy of admiration, Mrs. Ellen Wood;
best netted tidy made, Mrs. Archer; best hooked
tidy, Catherine Rampton; a handsome crochet
baby hood, Emily Maynor; lovely netted neck-
tie, Mary F. Call; best silk handkerchief, silk
spun, Mary Waddington; best braided pillow
shams, Elizabeth Evans; handsome wool mat,
Mary Stablie; best artist work, with pen, also
scissors, Rachel Briggs; best painting, on vel-
vet, Margretta Call; best rag carpet, Esther
Sessions; best bottled pears and peaches, Jane


Holt; cherries, Sarah Sessions; Mrs. Rachel
Briggs raised the largest squash, weight 115
pounds; Mrs. Mary Briggs, best display of
cabbage, onions and celery. Judges—Ann
Dustin, Louisa Wood, Eliza Smedley and 
Katie Hollbrook.
	Miss E. W. SMITH.
Kaysville.


CHESTER PRIMARY FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The gay and festive Primary Fair was held
last Thursday, under most favorable circum-
stances, as to the products of the little men
and women of the association, most delightful
weather and the pleasing presence of Sister
Helena Madsen, Prest. of the Stake Primaries
and her two counselors.
	At early morning deft fingers were busy
hanging up those ingenious patch works, called
quilts, tidies, shawls, socks, dresses, etc., till you
were surprised to see so much labor and skill.
The boys came trooping in with their works
of agricultural implements, pigeons, plymouth
rocks, etc., etc., while a table cried "enough,
enough of the culinary department." The
little cooks were consciously proud.
	One little fellow, by the way, a cripple by
paralysis, Ernest C. Candland, showed his
taste by some drawings of animals.
	After feasting the eye on the useful and
ornamental, the feast of reason was introduced
—recitations, dialogues, songs, remarks etc.,
made pleasurable impressions. All were so
wisely chosen and rendered, we cannot mention
all, hence all was excellent.
	The programme filled, that other part that
man loves so much, the sure road to his pocket,
and blessing the viands prepared and waiting,
then filled with the good things of earth, the
Bishop, President Madsen, her Counselors, the
Stake Primary Clerk, Prest. Emma Heyward
and her Counselors prayed heaven's choicest
blessing on the little ones and we all said amen.
	ONE THAT WAS THERE.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Oil of lavender will drive away flies.
	Grained wood should be washed with cold tea.
	Mortar and paint may be removed from window glass
with hot, sharp vinegar.
	If paper has been laid under carpet, all dust may be
easily removed with it.
	If a bedstead creaks at each movement of the sleeper,
remove the slats and wrap the end of each in old news-
papers. This will prove a complete silencer.
	Carpets should be thoroughly beaten on the wrong side
first, and then on the right side, after which, spots may be
removed by the use of ox gall or ammonia and water.
	Steel knives not in daily use may be kept from rusting if
they are dipped in a strong solution of soda. When dry,
wrap them in flannel and put them away in a dry place.
	Lemons may be kept for months by simply putting them
into a jug of buttermilk, changing the liquid about once in
three weeks. When the lemons are required for use, they
should be well dried with a cloth.
	A little turpentine put into the wash boiler will make
clothes very white, and will often remove incorrigible stains
from white goods. A tablespoonful of turpentine to a
large boiler, or a teaspoonful to two gallons of water may
be used. There is no smell; the boiling destroys it.
	Nice Plum Cake.—Take six ounces of butter, whipped
to a cream; add the same weight of sugar, stir in four 
whipped eggs, and twelve ounces of flour; beat these well,
and add six ounces of currants, and six ounces of sultanas
and stoned raisins, two ounces of candied peel, twelve
almonds, pounded, a pinch of mace, a teaspoonful of spice,
and one of baking powder.
	Minced Fowl.—Take the remains of a cold roast fowl,


and cut off all the white meat, which mince finely, without
any skin or bone; but put the bones and skin into a stew
pan, with an onion, a blade of mace, and a handful of
sweet herbs tied up. Add nearly a pint of water. Let it
stew for an hour, and then strain and pour off the gravy,
putting in a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Take
two hard boiled eggs, and finely chop them. Mix them
with the fowl, and add salt, pepper, and mace, according
to taste. Put in the gravy; also half a teaspoonful of very
finely minced lemon peel, one tablespoonful of lemon juice,
two tablespoonfuls of flour, made into a smooth paste with
a little cold water, and let the whole just boil. Serve the
fowl with sippets of toasted bread. People often prefer
cayenne to common white pepper.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOMEMADE HOLIDAY GIFTS.

	A square sofa pillow of black satin is effective, powdered
with white daisies wrought in filo floss. Finish the edge of
the cushion with large yellow beads, and decorate one
corner with a large yellow satin bow.
	Autumn leaves may be used with pretty effect for mak-
ing lamp shades, by placing them on cardboard. Or they
may be applied to cardboard cases for flower pots, or to
borders for photographs, and used in a variety of ways.
	A novel style of wall pocket has a crescent and a in
circular-shaped piece of cardboard for its foundation; the
circular piece is covered with peacock blue satin, and the
parts are joined together with over-and-over stitches; a row
of gold cord edges the circular piece and is tied in loops at
the point of suspension, the ends of the cord being tipped
with gold tassels. The circular piece has on it a branch
of the nasturtium vine, with dark red and bright yellow
flowers.
	A pretty ornament for the wall is made by cutting a fan
out of very stiff pasteboard, and covering half of it with
plush or velvet, put on plain. On the other half put folds
of satin, lengthwise, to imitate the folds of a half-open fan.
Around the edge put a narrow band of swans' down, at
the top or handle put a bow, and a cord and tassels. In
the center of the fan put on round or oval Christmas cards.
It should be unfringed. One made of pink plush and
satin is handsome; one less delicate and less liable to be
come soiled can be made of wine colored satin.


IN MEMORIAM

	Of Mary Elijah Etta Haskell, daughter of Thales H.
and Margaret J. Haskell, who departed this life Nov. 3rd,
1885, in Salt Lake City, aged fourteen years and thirteen
d
	Her home is in Bluff City, San Juan Co., Utah. On
the 11th of last July she left her home and parents to visit
her sister who lives in the Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City.
While there, she was taken with the typhoid fever, and
died, leaving her parents almost broken-hearted. She was
a member of the Relief Society, also the Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion of condolence:
	Whereas, Providence has seen fit to call from our midst
our much esteemed sister and co-laborer in the cause of
truth to finish the labor so nobly begun on this earth in a
higher sphere, we, the members of these Associations, offer
our heart-felt sympathy to the bereaved parents and friends
of the deceased, and although her loss is keenly felt, both
as a faithful member of the Associations and a devoted
daughter, we trust the parents will feel reconciled, know-
ing she was taken from a world of sorrow by a just and
merciful God.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed
on the record of these Associations, and that one be sent to
the EXPONENT.
			JANE M. WALTON, President R. S.,
			MARY N. JONES, President Y. L. M. I. A.

Dedicated to the memory of Miss Mary Haskell, who
		departed this life Nov. 3rd 1885.

BY C. E. WALTON.

		Thou art gone, dear sister Mary,
			To mingle with the blest,
		Among the just to tarry,
			In the eternal rest.


Dear one, how much we miss thee
	No human tongue can tell;
But we submit to His decree,
	Who doeth all things well.

Farewell, then, dearest Mary,
	In this life we'll meet no more—
Thou art gone like some sweet fairy,
	And thy loss we do deplore.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, in Payson, Utah Co., September 2nd, 1885,
Mary Moor, wife of John Harry Moor, aged sixty years,
seven months and eleven days. Deceased was born in
Beverbee, Nottinghamshire, England, where she was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
June 28th, 1848. She emigrated to Utah with the hand-
cart company, in the fall of 1856. She had occupied the
position of Second Counselor to the President of the Re-
lief Society for over seventeen years, and died in full faith
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Inasmuch as our Father in heaven has seen fit to call
from our midst our beloved sister and Counselor,
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of the
Payson Relief Society, desire to show our appreciation of
her worth by recording her virtues.
	Resolved, that we hold sacred in our memories both
her precept and example. She manifested the gift of fer-
vent charity, and was firm in her integrity to the principle
of celestial marriage. May we strive to imitate her
patience and meekness, her uncomplaining disposition, her
wisdom, her devotion to God and His cause.
		B. J. SIMONS, President.

	Alice Malena Johnson, daughter of Alexander Wilkins
and Alice Malena Barney, and wife of M. E. Johnson was
born at Provo, Utah, February 28th, 1857; baptized in 1865;
married March 15th, 1874, at Mona, Juab Co., Utah; re-
baptized October 10th, 1875, at Fountain Green, Sanpete
Co., Utah; Died November 22nd, 1885, of typhoid fever,
at Huntington, Emery Co., Utah, having buried her in-
fant daughter, Hattie Minerva, on the 18th of the same
month. She leaves a family consisting of a husband and
five small children to mourn her loss. She was a devoted
wife and mother.
	She has been an energetic teacher in the Huntington
Relief Society ever since the organization of the same. She
was ever ready to bear a true and faithful testimony to the
work of the Lord, always liberal to donate both time and
means to help the good work along; was also a member of
the Y. L. M. I. A., and belonged to the Huntington choir
for the past five years, and was always punctual in attend-
ance to the same. Her loss will be deeply felt by the com-
munity, as well as her bereaved family and friends.
	We feel to deeply sympathize with her family and friends,
and pray that our Heavenly Father will comfort their hearts
in this affliction and keep them pure and spotless, that they
may be worthy to meet her in a better world to come. And
let us all be humble and prayerful, and so order our lives
hat when we are called to go behind the vail, we, like her
may carry with us a hope of coming forth in the morning of
that glorious resurrection that awaits the faithful.
		TALITHA C. AVERY, President,
		SARAH WIMMER, Secretary.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of 
		MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[pointing finger graphic] CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[pointing finger graphic] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[pointing finger graphic] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
		"Domestic!"
	The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah

[text rotated right 90 degrees] Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been
in the Market 23 Years. 

[text rotated left 90 degrees] Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[text not rotated] Young Brothers,
38 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building,
	SALT LAKE CITY,
	"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

		Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[pointing finger graphic] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

	Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
			in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.,
		And an elegant assortment of 
	DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and Inf
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
