VOL. 14.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1885.	No. 13.


[For the EXPONENT.]
	"GOD BLESS YOU!"

THE SECOND WIFE TO HER HUSBAND IN PRISON.

Dear Friend, when last, a little space,
Yourself and I stood face to face,
My heart was full of fear and pain.
My eyes o'erflowed with bitter rain—
You laid your hands upon my head
And low and fervently you said.
	"God bless you!"

Oh, sweet and low the words did flow, 
As summer breezes gently blow
But broad as earth, deep as the sea,
And high as heaven they were to me;
As pure as truth, as sweet as love—
I know they live and shine above—
	"God bless you!"

And God will bless me for your sake,
My grief and pain will wings betake,
And I in grace and truth shall grow,
Shall serve Him faithfully below,
And side by side with you shall rise
To greet our Savior in the skies—
	"God bless you!"

O servant of the living God,
Pursuing now the ways He trod.
Approaching step by step the door
Through which to share His throne and power,
Accept from me this echo sweet,
As I your precious words repeat—
	"God bless you!"

					LU DALTON.


<l “never="" more="" will;l="" .adore="" thee’fli.="" 3="" a="" ifldhstq="" c="" 'h1="" o'er="" and="" i="" rcat="" jjiem="" slowly.="" words="" of="" loneliness="" grief,="" daric’desalr="" t'dterwsecok="" wkin="" weaning.="" ui="" ,0.="" 1="" b="" .ul’a="" jeep,wfithing.,nc.="" ,r="" coula="" see'thy="" tom="" heart="" bleeding.="" 9tfo,="">	HOPE ON.

Hope on! do not despair,
Hyperion did its errand well.

TO ONE WHO WROTE "FAREWELL TO LOVE."

"Never more will I adore thee"
	O'er and o'er I read them slowly,
Words of loneliness and grief,
	Of dark despair and bitter woe.

In those words of bitter meaning
	I could see the soul's deep writhing,
I could see thy torn heart bleeding,
	Crushed with its despair and grieving.

Other hearts than thine have beaten
	With a love as warm and true,
Other hearts than thine lie riven,
	Bereft of all their warmth and glow.

And many a heart, were it laid bare
	To the cold world's cruel gaze,
Would show a scar deep hidden there,
Which time could never more efface.

But yet, hope on my friend, hope on!
	Let thy soul be not bowed down,
Remember that the darkest hour
	Is just before the early morn.
Keep thy mind a priceless jewel,
	Far above reproach or shame
Let thine aim be high and truthful,
	And from despondency refrain.

And should the fickle goddess love,
	Still coldly ever turn from thee,
Calm thou thyself, seek help above.
Accept thy fate as God's decree.


[Column 1]
IS THERE ANYTHING WOMEN CAN 
DO IN THE PRESENT EMERGENCY?

	At this peculiar time, when injustice and wrongs
of many kinds are inflicted upon this people, and
when women and children are compelled to bear
a large share thereof, it seems to me that a correct
understanding of our situation should be ascer-
tained if possible, in order that we may be pre-
pared to meet these constantly recurring circum-
stances intelligently.  We often intuitively recog-
nize that we are wronged, yet in many instances
it would be impossible to make a full explanation
of the wrongs done to us, and we as often find our-
selves powerless to prevent their repetition.  Our
present situation, however, is so plain and unmis-
takable, and the outrages committed by our perse-
cutors are so apparent, that we need ask no question
in relation thereto, but it would be well to ask our-
selves where is the remedy, and is it in our power
to apply it?  If we were viewing this subject
from a standpoint other than a religious one, we
should be compelled to reason differently, but the
onslaught that is being made upon us at the pres-
ent time, as well as the persecutions we have en-
dured in the past, have been directed against us
solely on account of our religion.  If we would 
only yield our religious faith and practices, and,
as President Cleveland expressed himself to the
late delegation, who were sent to represent the
true situation here, Become as they are, there would
be no further collision, no arrests, no convictions,
no fines, no imprisonments, but everything would
run smoothly along, for I believe the old adage
to be correct, "That the Devil takes care of his 
own."
	The practice of plural marriage by us we know 
to be in perfect harmony with the laws which
govern our earthly being, and consequently the
very opposite to that immorality which is charged
against us, and we defy the philosophical world
to prove to the contrary, while its social influence
is so far superior to that which grows out of the
monogamic relations, that it should never be 
named in the same connection; and viewed relig-
iously, its tendency is elevating in the highest de-
gree.  I know that many of my sisters in the out-
side world will take issue with me upon this point,
but let them remember that they can only reason
upon this subject theoretically, while I speak from
a long experience both with myself and others,
and I know whereof I speak.  If I might be al-
lowed to assume the role of prophetess I would
predict that before many decades pass away the
legislators of this nation will enact laws in favor
of plural marriage, instead of passing cruel meas-
ures against its practice, for they will then have
recognized its superiority.
	To establish the true order of God even in rela-
tion to any one principle has always met with the
most direct opposition, and has required courage
of the most heroic character to maintain; while
on the other hand mankind have easily and al-
most imperceptibly drifted away from the true
order, and have always found outside of it enough
to fully gratify the baser passions.  The restraints
imposed by the former are not demanded by the
latter in hardly any degree, thus proving the truth
of the Savior's words,  "Strait is the gate and 
narrow is the way which leadeth to the lives, and
few enter there; while wide is the gate and broad
is the way that leadeth to the deaths, and many go
in thereat."
	God has given to us a dispensation of the Gos-

[Column 2]
pel which includes the law of celestial marriage,
and expects us to maintain it, no matter what may
be the sacrifice required.  Because of this practice,
our fathers, husbands, brothers and sons are
dragged before legalized mobs—wrongly called
courts of justice—and are there sentenced to fine
and imprisonment, while we and our children are
compelled to testify against them at the peril of
our liberty. At the same time, good and whole-
some law is declared, by these same courts, in-
sufficient to be used against our accusors and
persecutors, who are guilty of the foulest crimes
named in the decalogue, and by this means there
is turned loose upon socity the monogamic liber-
tine, "whose marrage vows," in the language of
Shakespeare, "are false as dicers oaths, who calls
virtue hypocrite and takes off the rose from the
fair forehead of an innocent love, and sets a blis-
ter there;" things, not men, who, to hide their own
dishonor and their victim's disgrace, will pay
liberally to procure child murder. These acts are
interspersed with frequent visits to haunts of vice
and shame, where the basest passions run riot
and unchecked. There are yet darker spots upon
the picture, that we will forebear to point out, for
some things are too horrid to exhibit to the light
of day, and were it not that eternal justice de-
mands it, we would prefer that they should be con-
signed to utter oblivion.  But the secret acts of
men must be revealed, and when they are we can
easily imagine with what vehemence these corrupt
beings will call upon the rocks and mountains to
fall upon them, and hide them from the face of
that Pure One, who will pronounce their eternal
doom.
	If men of God will only come down to the level
of these base creatures, we can then be spared the
painful necessity of testifying against them, for
they will then be no longer accused and convicted.
	To become like them seems to be the only alterna-
tive left short of a prison. In this extremity, my
dear sisters, what shall we do? Shall we counsel
our loved ones to surrender in any degree to
avoid imprisonment, and thus secure to ourselves
their society and thier care? Let me answer for
every true daughter of Zion throughout these
mountains, and I know the answer will find an
echo in every true woman's heart. Maintain the
law of God at every cost. Let prison doors close
upon our sires, our husbands, our brothers and
our sons, one by one, until God shall say it is
enough. In the meantime we will work and pray
and hope until those same prison doors are open,
and we have restored to us our dearest treasures,
honored of God, revered of man, and thrice
precious to us because of their unswerving integri-
ty. This is the only way whereby we can help to
preserve to future generation this higher law
which pertains to the eternal lives, ordained by
God to be bestowed upon His faithful Saints.
	While I am satisfied that God will do His part,
still if we can at all help ourselves is it not our im-
perative duty to do so?  Most certainly it is. In
this connection allow me to suggest a remedy.  We
have for years past been sustaining a class of indi-
viduals who were eager for Mormon ducats, and
who have professed great friendship for us, but at
the very first opportunity they have shown the
cloven foot, fraternizing and joining in with our
bitterest enemies in persecuting us to the utmost
of their power, using our money to sustain a foul
sheet that is published in our principle city, whose
venality and diabolism is too well know to need
any comment whatever. I am satisfied the time


has now arrived when the women of Israel, young
and old, should withdraw their patronage entirely
from this class, and teach their children to do the
same, and no longer furnish the means to cut our
own throats. Let us be willing to make sacrifice
of everything that is not an actual necessity,
rather than patronize our enemies to the extent of
a solitary dime, for while we continue our present
practice we shall find ourselves in bondage.
	I earnestly ask the sisters of the Relief Society,
Y. L. M. I. Associations and the Primaries to
teach this constantly, until the practice has entirely
ceased, and God will justify us in helping to re-
move one cause, at least, that has helped to pro-
duce the present result. In this connection let us
teach and practice the highest principles of purity,
and throw around our children such safeguards as
will effectually bar the enemy from polluting our
heritage. Then will the Lord smile again upon
His people, and restore their seers as at the be-
ginning, and by the mouths of prophets and apos-
tles declare His law unto His people.
							AUNT RUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

		(Continued.)

	The letter, which I copied so freely, shows
what people can accomplish by putting their
trust in God, and walking in obedience to His
will and commands. The writer, in speaking
of "the poor, desponding Vilate," had refer-
ence to a time before they had heard "Mor-
monism," when, among other doctrines that
were being preached, was that of predestina-
tion, and she, not being able to feel a change
of heart, as others professed to have experi-
enced, finally came to the conclusion that she
was one of those doomed to be damned. Since
they were married they had lost a number of
their loved ones—two babes and her mother,
my father's parents and eldest brother, all but
his mother dying under his roof, and altogether
it had so worked upon her mind that she sank
into a state bordering on despair. They had
received pressing invitations to unite with dif-
ferent sects, and had passed through several
of their protracted meetings, and, as my father
said, he had "been many times upon the anxious
bench to seek relief from the bonds of sin and
death," but no relief could he find until the
meetings were passed by. They had come to
the conclusion to put themselves under the
care of the Baptist Church about three weeks
before they heard this Gospel preached by five
"Mormon" Elders, who came to their town from
Pennsylvania. Curiosity prompted my father
to go and listen to them, "When for the first
time," he says, "I heard the fulness of the
everlasting Gospel." They had partaken of
the Sacrament for the first and last time on
the day of their baptism into that church.
They had never found any minister who could
tell them what to do to be saved, only to "be-
lieve in the Lord Jesus Christ," and this only
left them in a more unsatisfied and sorrowful
state than ever. Though the Baptist faith in-
cluded some doctrines which they did not be-
lieve, they thought it best to put themselves
under its charge, it being the best thing they
could find.
	But a new and important era was about to
open in their lives. Fifteen years or so from
that date found them outcasts; their goods
confiscated, and they driven before the mobs,
because of the prejudices raised by those o'er
religious sects—into the wilderness, to seek
refuge among the uncivilized and savage races
from those bitter persecutions which they had
received from the day they had rendered obedi-
ence to the only true Gospel, which alone had

[Column 2]
sustained them. My mother's joy during those
days of tribulation, was because of her humility
and obedience, and so it was with all the rest
who did likewise. The Lord fed them upon
the pure bread of life during their trials, when
they endured them patiently for righteousness'
sake. He surely fulfilled His part, and I am
only one out of many who can testify that
some of the most glorious seasons were enjoyed
during that time when we were left, as it were,
with nothing but a merciful Father to look to
for our daily bread, and His arm to protect us
from the wicked who sought so diligently the
destruction of His people.
	The little meetings which the sisters held
twice or three times in a week, were begun in
the month of May, while we had the privilege
of Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina Young and a few
others, who went with the first company that
left Winter Quarters in June for the Rocky
Mountains. The spirit that began to be poured
out while they were with us, continued to burn
in the bosoms of those who met often one with
another, and the love of God flowed from
heart to heart, till the wicked one seemed
powerless in his efforts to get between us and
the Lord, and his cruel darts, in some instances,
were shorn of their sting.
	At the time when numbers were laying sick
with the terrible scourge that was carrying off
so many of the Saints, being made easy prey
for disease and death in consequence of the
weakened condition to which they were reduced
by long privations and exposure, and death
seemed determined to lay them low, my
mother would go from door to door ministering
food and consolation to the sick, and pouring
out blessings upon them, during which time
she scarcely touched food herself; at meal times
she would only take a cup of milk saying,
when urged to eat, that she had no room for it.
She seemed to grow stronger in body, and
had an abundance of nurse for her babe; in
blessing she was blessed, and there were others
enjoying a portion of the same spirit, and by
their united faith and works, with fasting and
prayer, the sick were healed and made to re-
joice more abundantly in the mercy of their
Lord, that they were numbered among those
who were to come up through much tribula-
tion and be made white in the blood of the
Lamb.
	There were many great and glorious mani-
festations—some had visions, and by the gift
of tongues there were things foretold, some of
which we have seen the fulfillment of, and
others that are coming swiftly upon those who
have turned away and are uniting their voices
and influence against Zion which we were
told should be established in these mountains,
where the laws of God were to rule, and the
honorable of the earth would come to dwell
within its borders, because the wicked were
allowed to rule elsewhere, and peace was taken
from the earth, except it were in Zion, a place
where righteousness would reign, and naught
should molest or make afraid in all the holy
mount.
	Many were the things revealed by the spirit
concerning the judgments that would be poured
out upon the nations after they rejected the
Gospel, and smote and slew others of god's
messengers who should be sent out to proclaim
the Gospel of salvation to an erring world,
and the righteous would barely escape, and
many of them would be called upon to lay
down their lives in their struggle for the truth;
also of the wars that were right at our doors,
famine, pestilence, etc., and the anguish that
would rend the hearts of the suffering and be-
reaved; that the time would be when hunger
would overcome every tender feeling, and even
mothers would eat their own babes. Many
terrible things were so clearly portrayed to the
minds of those who were present and under-
stood as they were spoken, by the gift and

[Column 3]
power of the spirit, that we felt to pray the
Lord to close the vision of our minds.
	Frequently, without eating or drinking, we
would meet in the morning, either at my
mother's, or some other of father's houses, and
spend the day singing, praying and prophecy-
ing; occasionally some of the brethren who
could leave their work united with us and re-
ceived great blessings in connection with the
sisters; many consoling things were spoken by
the spirit concerning our brethren, the Pioneers
and Battalion, to the truth of which they
testified when they returned.
	Sisters Presendia Kimball and Frances Swan
Kimball, also Emmeline Whitney, now Editor
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, were gifted in
the interpretation of tongues. The two former,
with a few others, met at the house occupied
by Sister Presendia and Laura P. Kimball,
and while conversing upon some of the spirit-
ual manifestations the same power rested down
upon them, and an open vision appeared to
Frances. I have not heard it related for
years, but as nearly as my memory serves me,
they that were there said she arose, and her
countenance beamed with a brightness like
unto one transfigured; her voice and language
was heavenly, and grace was in every move-
ment, as she stood there and related over
scenes in the experience of some of those sis-
ters, which were some of the most acute trials
that had been their lot to pass through during
their earth-lives, or while being driven from
place to place in Missouri, Illinois, and at
various times since they took upon themselves
the name of Latter-day Saint. She seemed to
be addressing one or more personages, who re-
corded each one's story as they were told them,
only one entering their presence at a time,
Frances being voice for them, as well as for
the personage, who, in return, addressed them
with a look of approval, and with a counten-
ance beaming with joy and satisfaction, they
were welcomed, and a bright crown of glory
was placed on each one's head, attended with
words suitable to their station and the occasion.
Sister Frances had known little or nothing of
their previous experience, and had never heard
the incidents related, but she described them
as accurately as if told by themselves.
	I heard the vision related, but Sister Presen-
dia could do it more justice, no doubt, as she
witnessed the whole, and at best I have retained
but a faint remembrance of it, not having
been present at that meeting.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"The opening of the exposition of New
Orleans was attended by 50,000 people."

	"Twenty-six young ladies have passed the
first examination in the Royal University of
Ireland."

	"The 'Primrose Leagues' of ladies, named
for Disraeli's favorite flower, are said to have
carried several districts for the Conservatives
in the recent English elections."

	"Last year there were 196 women in attend-
ance at the University of Michigan, come six-
teen more than in the previous year. The
largest part of the number were connected
with the literary department, the next largest
with the medical."


﻿Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Oct. 13. 1885, as follows.
	Hattie Scott, Detroit, Mich. Slate pencil
Sharpener.
	Marion Shobs, Rochester, N. Y., Roller
Skate.
	Emily A. Stears, Brooklyn, N. Y., Wash-
basin.
	Mary E. Thompson, New York, Portable
Dust hood or Blower.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<fission,is through="" you="" are="" froftorrdh="" worldjmqjfs="" spares-,="" -="" 7...="" anosxidaxpd="" bjnighe.yyere="" prayincjr.="" .ypu....="" uh-ft.="" rphere.a2aiir,<youcaa'knqwthe="" comfdrt="" of'jrome,'="" i="" jtff="" aivi6v,the?ce'ncs="" of;your,="" oyrn-nativpmdn="" u-;r="" bfi="" jbejunited,vfitb;li?vel="" ppe—would="" all="" could;="" comq="" asj="" iyjiatlgng.tp="" your="" dear="" hoyeupld.and;="" ,="" -isailpyi19y?="" s="" ?v-5-="" inroughtheactvons.olpaserwiciceanven.="" m;..kmmjoc.o3.="" in="" r:="" .="" 1.01n5="" nu;o:n<="" -jib!:;="" -xiu&iermed7ppr.oppef="" jngs,andundaj$cjiopl5="" bmi="" 3‘o°.="" "ii.="" oj.itiu.c;="" 5,’r="" to,'ci="" (?.r.ot!="" 2cc="" r;.-r="" ti3d="" hnt="" i"'="" j-="" a="" good="" our="" midst="" witf="" end1="" thivfewciiages="" arema'ye,="" we’re="" not="" noted="" lo?wosferful'deeds7'="" but="" have="" qmetlx'keptlaar="" watd'f'id.tfo="" shade,"="" -aadtls="" seed="" irtt±eisvaad="">			A POEM.

[WRITTEN TO WELCOME BROTHER ASAHEL
H. WOODRUFF HOME FROM HIS MISSION.]

		BY REBA B. PRATT

Dear brother, we come with a welcome to-night
	Most heartily filled with good cheer,
These words, which friendship inspired us to write,
	Is the greeting of every one here.
We, with you, rejoice that your mission is through,
	You are free from the world and its snares,
By day and by night we were praying for you,
	And our Father has answered our prayers.

Here again, you can know the comforts of home,
	View the scenes of your own native land.
Be united with loved ones—would all could come
	Who belong to your dear household band.
Joy would be more complete if you could here see
	Your aged father with us once again;
How much we deplore he an exile must be
	Through the actions of base wicked men.
You were missed from our meetings, and Sunday School,
		too,
	None other your place here could fill;
So you see it is ready and waiting for you,
	With the work of a good mission still.
In our midst you will find that few changes are made,
	We're not noted for wonderful deeds,
But have quietly kept our ward in the shade,"
	While persecution was sowing its seeds.

We are pleased, as we look once more on your face—
	'Twas remembered as boyish and fair,
But time, in its changes, has quietly placed
	The stamp of true manhood there.
We are proud of the mission filled in your youth,
	Its benefits you surely will prize;
Experience has taught you lessons of truth
	You could not have learned otherwise.

You have visited cities of great renown,
	Their wonders you have tarried to view;
May all you have learned in the future be found
	A source of true knowledge to you.
May time strengthen your faith, as the years go by,
	May your mission a blessing still be,
And the seed increase and multiply
	You planted far over the sea.

Farmer's Ward, Nov., 1885.


CHASTITY.
				---
		So dear to heaven is saintly chasisty,
		That when a soul is found sincerely so
		A thousand liv'ry'd angels lackey her,
		Driving far off, each thing of guilt nad sin.
								Milton's comus.
	Most entirely do I believe the above glorious
words of the immortal Milton, he whose life
bore no moral stain, how grand an epitaph to
be written upon any tomb--chastity! innocence
before God, "purity in the inward parts," as
Scripture names it. Yes, indeed, a being so
gifted, without the stain of moral so rofuola
must be one upon whom the smile of approval
beams from the Great Father of the universe!
Love, that heavenly inheritance, cannot dwell
in an unchaste soul; did love rule upon the
earth, lust would not be known; yet how
this holy name traduced?  The true definition
of the word is almost lost on the general ear.
Name love, and its foul opposite is seen to rise
up in the minds of the mass; they are unac-
quainted with the true definition of the word
and the holy principle it represents so that it
has only the signification of the sound it has on
the lips.
	It is an untold blessing to have a pure an-
cestry, especially a pure parentage. "Chastity
must be an inherent quality of the soul; the
schools can neither make or unmake nature,
though they have the power to mould and re-
fine manners and ideas, they, of course, culti-
vate, modify and improve, nature, though she
has her fill—of school—will be nature
still.
	I know that all schooling, that is, educating
nature, must commence in the incipient stages
of life, even in infancy, as soon as it can under-
stand looks and the tone of the voice; from
that moment it should be taught purify and
refinement in its ways and habits--the infant
is ever a creature of habit, and it is the duty
of the mother, or the nurse, to see that she
does not break the order she has instituted.
Wisdom is imperative in all who have the
care of the infant--man or woman, for they
are laying a foundation for all future life, not
to say eternity, and the training, for good or
for evil, will have a powerful effect upon the
future course, for early habits are woven in
the web of life most assuredly.
	Mothers, and those who have the care of
young children and infants, should remember
to be in school themselves every day of their
lives, for even the infant imbibes the spirit of
her who attends it day by day and hour by
hour; delicacy and refinement should guard
every action, for be assured the plastic soul
will bear the impress given!  Language, also,
should ever be guarded, that no words nor ex-
clamations may fall upon the infant ear, but
that which is sweet, harmonious and loving.
	In bathing and dressing children, they should
be treated with the same considerate delicacy
that would be given to an adult.  I have
known children who exact this, and would
become unmanagable if it was omitted, and if
persisted in would break down to tears, these
are the naturally pure ones, that vividly retain
the dignity of their pre-existent home--their
parents also have been of the same; they are
souls without spot or blemish, whom the angels
guard, for they are the beloved of the Lord.
By such a course chastity is induced and culti-
vated in the nursery.
	How tenacious are the Scriptures on chasti-
ty both in men and women--equally binding
on each.  How fearful and instantaneous were
some of the punishments on those who broke
the law of chastity!
	Death before dishonor, was the motto of the
Romans. Sheridan Knowles has worked into
one of his most powerful dramas a display of
how this was carried out, in a most thrilling
manner.  It is founded on Roman history.
Virginius, a Roman citizen, has a lovely
daughter, who, being motherless, he has cen-
tered in her a strange and marvelous love; he
has had her carefully educated, and she returns
it all with loving interest; she is pure and
beautiful.  A debauched Patrician, one in
power, has seen her, and determines to possess
her, but, knowing the sterling worth of her
father, and that he is a Roman in very deed,
he can only succeed by having him accnsed
and arrested on some trifling offense, for high
treason!  He is, of course, condemned; he is
agonized, for he knows the wretch who has ac-
cused him, and also his foul intent; he asks for
a few moments to bid his child farewell; it is
granted.  He has secured his dagger, and
while lavishing on her his soul of love, and
folding her in agonizing fondness in his power-
ful arms, plunges the dagger to her heart!
Thus she is saved by the holy hand of her
father, by death before dishonor.  Here was an
immortal endorsement of "saintly chastity!"
Virginius did indeed drive-off "the wretch of
guilt and sin!"  This is a deed written with an
iron pen, dipped in holy and sacred blood, for
ever in the archives of Rome, and lauded and
endorsed by eternal ages, and it stands out in
bold relief, especially in this lax age, when the
whole world seems tainted with licentiousness!
Still, we know that in all ages, everywhere
there have ever been the virtuous and the pure,
and that they have been the salt of the earth,
preserving the mass from putrefaction, for they
have not bowed the knee to the foolish fashions,
or indecent practices of the age, and they are
those on whom the angels wait.
	But, as a people, we rose up and left our
father's house and the world in which they
dwelt, that we might gather and enter into
laws and covenants that would place the sheet-
anchor of our souls within the veil; and now, if
we have "slumbered and slept" let us awake
and shake off our drowsiness and start afresh
on the journey of life, and most especially as a
"vigilant committee" over our infants and our
youth, for such is greatly needed.
	You, young mothers, remember day by day and
hour by hour the mighty responsibility that rests
upon you, such as you must not, cannot shirk
with impunity; if you do a day of awful re-
morse awaits you!  Foster not vanity in
your girls by rich and fantastic clothing, and
frivolity in heart and brain; teach them to
know that these are the orgaus, and these
alone, that produce immortality.  As they are
cultivated and exercised in this stage of exist-
ence, so will they wake up on the morning of
the resurrection. Devote; at least, the next
twenty years to maturing and educating your
children; this will be to you the finest school
on earth; there, equally with your children,
will you be learning lessons that will fit and
prepare you for eternity.  Arouse that strong
individuality that you all possess, more or less,
and be not drawn by example or importunity
from the "straight and narrow path," but,
having laid down plans for your own house-
hold, keep "the even tenor of your way," and
the end will be joy and peace and satisfaction,
and your children will "rise up and call you
blessed," for they will love, and more, respect
you.  I know what I am talking about; it is
practical truth; therefore, receive it as though
you were my daughters; it is a small, but im-
portant legacy in a few words, but if you will
remember it and carry it out, and then a great
deal more "unwritten philosophy," which you
will discover as you climb the hill of life, you
will realize that I have spoken truth, and
you will rejoice therein, as  you will discover
that the refinement of the soul is the polish of
heaven!  True nobility does not receive its pa-
tent from Westminster, or St. Paul, or any
earthly court, but direct from the chancery of
heaven, through a pure ancestry.
	I wonder if my young brothers ever con-
descend to read the EXPONENT.  I have heard
some ladies say they cannot read the small-talk
of the EXPONENT. My readers, you may dis-
cover a strong vein of sarcasm runs through
this little pen of mine as I echo their words, but
do my brothers read it--my young brothers?
This is the question I ask.  If so, I would tell
them the reason I address my young sisters
more especially is because I know that woman
has so often been the keeper of man's virtue,
and when they meet in the great beyond those
to whom she has been their guardian angel on
earth, will gladly acknowledge it, and such
will shine with a lustre, the splendor of which,
at present, we have no conception of.
	I honor my young brethren, I feel many
 are commencing to be "burning and shining
lights" in the kingdom of our God, and that
the smile of their Father--God-- is upon
them.  Oh, may they set "their face as a flint"
to walk the straight and narrow path that
leads to life and immortality, to be enabled to
set their foot on everything that would arise
to check their progress in the upward path,
and be able to say, in the name of Jesus
Christ, get thee behind me, even though the
tempoter came in the form of an angel of light.
Innocence before God will carry man or
woman through life, and more, through death!
But without it--I will not contemplate the re-
verse.  May the angles of God surround His
people to-day as a mighty phalanx, is my daily
prayer.
						HANNAH T. KING.


He that swears tells us that his bare word
[-]s not to be credited.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	Editor.

	Published [---] in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy on[-] ye[---] [---] copy six months $1.00, Ten
copies for the price of [---]
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 2[-] E. South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. B[---]ess hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY.		DECEMBER 1, 1885.


CRUSADE AGAINST MORMONISM.

     The Press and the pulpit, as well as law-makers,
seem trying to work themselves and everybody
else into a perfect frenzy over the "Mormon" ques-
tion, true it is this peculiar people "are every-
where spoken against;" the papers abound in
matter upon this engrossing topic, and some of the
greatest ministers and lecturers of the day take
up the "hue and cry" and proclaim against
"Mormon" barbarism," "ignorance" and
"iniquity." They either accept false statements
and misrepresesntations for truth, or they invent
the most ridiculous fabrications for effect, to
draw money from the people, and to awaken a
wide-spread interest in the matter, so that some
sort of capital may be made for the church, or
the government officials and hangers on.
     Occasionally some great speaker or orator gets
so intensely virtuous, that the sacred Scriptures
are not sufficiently complete and he falls to and
hammers away at "Mormon," polygamy until if it
were not an eternal principle, there would not be
a vestige of it left; but truth though crushed to
earth, will rise again. Men and women of great
learning and celebrity have tried over and over
to put down Mormonism, and so utterly failed to
do any more than create a commotion and a
[--]rore, that it seems strange that there are any
new aspirants to champion the lost cause. But as
it is, they spring up now and then like mushrooms,
and are gone like the summer dew, one knows
not where, and "Mormonism" lives and flourishes
through its own vitality, notwithstanding the
storms that beat upon it, and the twigs and limbs
that are sometimes broken off because of the
heavy winds that come against it, that only strength-
en the growth, as it were, while the pruning process
makes it even more wholesome and vigorous.
Thus all the extra work done by those who are so
anxious to destroy it root and branch from the
face of the earth is merely labor lost. They
simply defeat their own purpose by the course
taken and are doomed to continuous and eventu-
ally everlasting disappointment.
	The New West Education Society has taken
up the vexed question and one of the great men,
Rev., Geo. W. Philips delivered an elaborate
annual sermon on this topic at the Union Park
Church, Chicago, recently. He called his subject
"The Mormon Menace," and took for his text: 
	"There is an accursed thing in the midst of
thee, O Israel. Neither will I be with you any
more except ye destroy the accursed thing from
among you.—Joshua vii, 12-13.
     Spare thy people O Lord, and give not thine
heritage to reproach. Jeol. 11, 17.
     This learned divine applies these passages to
"Mormonism." The plan the society has adopt-
ed as set forth in the sermon is educational mis-
sion work. Among his paragraphs are such ex-
pressions as the following. The "public domain
is a sacred trust, a divine heritage, and when
"menaced with moral evil it concerns all the rest
to come to the relief of the exposed point. The

[column 2]
body politic, the family, our common christianity
have all been wounded by the poison of poly-
gamy. Patriotism, and piety alike join in the
passionate cry."
	Christianity wounded by the poison of polygamy
is too absurd, when Christ himself never, in any
place, or at any time protested against it, though
it was the prevailing custom of the country.
How much more pure are the modern Christians
or their civilization than that of the Savior's
period or when those ancient worthies flourished
at a much earlier day, even at a time when men
walked and talked with God. The preacher says
later on in his discourse, "Polygamy as against
the Christian family is the issue presented at the
center of American civilization in the near fu-
ture."  	*	*	*	"But its defeat
is no easy task. Such sins die hard," and he
adds, as though to rouse the intense indignation
of his hearers, "With its burning shame so near
us as to scorch our eyeballs what excuse can we
plead for our indifference?" The appeal is made
to send missionary women here and to establish
schools to educate this people and their children
and the people will respond no doubt with means
thinking they are assisting to purify and civilize
Utah, whereas, there is not a people anywhere
better able to educate their own children and sup-
port schools than the "Mormons". He says, "But
we mistake if we imagine that soldiers and courts
can cure the plague of the new West." "Law
when enforced leaves the evil spirit still in pos-
session. What Utah needs is light and grace and
social purity." His theory is all right here, and
he tells some truth, the very boons we crave are
light and grace and social purity, not, however, such
as the so called Christian reformers have brought
here with them, but the light from heaven that
flows through the channel of the priesthood, the
grace that is born of sacrifice of feeling to princi-
ple, and the social purity that is the inevitable re-
sult of obedience to the commandments of God.
	These are the stepping stones to salvation and
an exaltation, and the Latter-day Saints who are
now enduring the trials and hardships brought
upon them by such Christian teachers and preach-
ers as the Rev. Phillips are as sure of the triumph
of their cause as they are positive now of the
growth and increase and prosperity that followed
the exodus from Nauvoo. And this is precisely
what the enemy fears; they talk of the success
that has attended Mormonism, of suppressing its
growth, thwarting and crippling its efforts in
foreign parts, etc., and seem fully aware of a
power that baffles their most carefully concocted
schemes, notwithstanding all they have to say of
"our ignorance" and their own educational advan-
tages and intelligence. Mr. Phillips says "Mor-
monism is thoroughly possessed with the mission-
ary idea. It proposes to convert the Gentiles, and
is doing it with astonishing success. It is clearly
within Max Muller's famous definition of a 'living
religion, viz.: Systematic self-propagation,	*	*
Latter-day Sainthood aspires to dominion. This
feature differences it from all other organized sys-
tems of evil that taint our civilization. We are
just beginning to make note of the far-reaching,
intense propaganda of the Mormon Church."
	They are afraid of the little stone that was cut
out of the mountain without hands, afraid of its
rolling forth and crushing in pieces, etc. But they
will find themselves utterly powerless to stay its
course, or stop the progress of the Latter-day
work.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms on Friday, December 11th, com-
mencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. It is earnestly de-
sired that there should be a good representation
from all the wards. Verbal reports are expected
from the respective presidents.


THE Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
on Saturday, Dec. 19th, commencing at 10 a.m.
and 2 p.m. This arrangement to have the whole
day for the Conference is in order to give more
time for speaking and spiritual improvement, or
exercises that might be of benefit to all. One
meeting is almost entirely occupied with business
and reports, and therefore leaves very little time
for general instruction. A general invitation is
extended to all interested to attend.
	THE Conference of the Primary Associations
of this Stake will be held in the Assembly Hall
on Saturday, Dec. 12th, commencing at 10 a.m.
and 2 p.m. Preparations are being made in the
Associations in the several wards to make it an
interesting event for all. Special care has been
taken to have the little folks well trained in sing-
ing and other exercises, and it is to be hoped
there will be a large attendance, not only of the
children who are enrolled in the Associations, and
those who have charge of them in the organiza-
tions, but of the parents, to encourage the child-
ren and those who labor for their advancement,
and certainly they are interested in the spiritual
progress of the youth of Zion.


CARD OF THANKS.
	The President and Board of Directors of the
Deseret Hospital wish to express their thanks and
grateful acknowledgements to all those who have
recently contributed money, orders and useful
articles to assist in sustaining this institution,
which is still in its infancy. The following is a
complete list of the names of the firms and indi-
vidual donors:
	Trustee-in Trust, Deseret Bank, Z. C. M. I.
Drug Store, Godbe, Pitts & Co., A. C. Smith &
Co., Moore & Allen, Roberts & Nelden, Zion's
Saving's Bank, James T. Little, Primary Associa-
tions Salt Lake Stake, Per Ellen C. Clawson,
President, Culmer Bros., Dr. W. H. Groves, Bur-
ton, Gardner & Co., Cunnington & Co., R. K.
Thomas, Swaner & Co., Henry Lawrence, Barnes
& Davis, Septimus W. Sears, White & Son, John
T. Caine, Jennings Bros., William H. Rowe, John
Daines, John Clark, Nelson A. Empey, Samuel
Teasdel, Carl Asmussen, John Spencer, Orson P.
Arnold, Catherine Horrocks, Co-op Furniture Co.,
Robt. Sherwood, Hardy Bros. & Burton, Spencer
Clawson, John McDonald, Mrs. E. J. Travis, J.
C. Cutler, John Q. Cannon, W. H. Rowe, Thos.
Jennings, George Arbogast, W. B. Dougal, Jas.
Jack, D. McKenzie, Wm. C. Spence, Geo. F.
Gibbs, George Goddard, John Irvine, Daniel F.
Daniels and Rocky Mountain Ice Co., Hogel
Bros., Sorenson & Carlquist and Mrs. Sarah T.
Wheeler.
	Some of the parties who have given may think
the Secretary has been very dilatory about pub-
lishing this notice, but some of the contributions
have only been very recently made, and this is
offered as an apology to those who may have
thought the acknowledgment through the public
prints late in coming. The managers are none
the less gratified, however, for the timely assist-
ance rendered just when Bishop Clawson, the
president of the institution, was obliged to absent
himself for a time, and there were heavy responsi-
ties resting upon the management. It is hoped
that all who have given to this good and noble
work will feel doubly blessed in return, for cer-
tainly "he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord," and to be able to aid suffering humanity is
always praiseworthy, and brings its own reward.
						E. B. WELLS,


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETINGS
	Synopsis of the minutes of the regular meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, October 31st, 1885, Counselor B. W.
Smith presiding. After singing, prayer was


offered by Sister Emma Toone.  Continued by
singing; and the minutes of the previous meeting
were read and accepted.  Minutes were also read
by the respective secretaries from the Y. L. of the
11th and 20th wards, and from the P. A. of the
5th, 15th, 20th and 21st wards.
	Sister Smith made a brief opening address and
gave the meeting over to the sisters.  Two or
three sisters in the congregation each bore a testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Counselor S. M. Kimball said any one who
could say this truly was endowed with the highest
order of intelligence, and working upon those
principles revealed through that source would
take us into the presence of our Eternal Father.
Several of the sisters in the congregation spoke
briefly on the times, the training of the youth o
Zion, the redemption of the dead, etc.
	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," was
sung by the congregation, after which Dr. Elvira
S. Barney addressed the congregation, making
some very practical suggestions, and giving
spiritual advice; alluded to the condition of our
young people, and warned mothers to take
special care of their daughters.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of her recent visit to
the Penitentiary, and that the brethren were feel-
ing well contented; also Miss Shaffer, who had
been sent there for contempt, was satisfied to re-
main, as she was determined not to submit to the
dictation of the court.  She referred to the hard-
ships and experiences of the missionaries, and to
the position the Saints now occupy compared to
that of former days, when we were journeying
and pioneering from Nauvoo to this valley.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor gave a short sketch of her
recent visit to the southern settlements of Utah
County, also spoke of the strong faith of the peo-
ple, and testified that this is the work of God, and
all who are firm and faithful will come off triumph-
ant.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing,
"Lord dismiss us," etc.  Benediction by Mrs. E.
B. Wells.

     Synopsis of the minutes of the meeting held
Nov. 14th, Counselor Elizabeth Howard presid-
ing.  After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs.
Margaret Steele.  Singing.  Minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted. Minutes of Y. L.
of the 20th and 15th wards, and of the P. A. from
the 5th, 10th,  21st and 8th wards were read by
the respective secretaries.
	Mrs. Howard called upon Mrs. M. A. Freeze to
address the sisters.  She spoke of her absence
from the city, but that she had enjoyed her work
in the, Temple and earnestly desired to perform
any part she was called upon to take, and to re-
main faithful and true to her covenants, in the
midst of the trials by which we, as  people, are
surrounded. Referred to having heard President
Brigham Young say that women were more spiritu-
al minded than men, and believed herself that it
was so; thought this was a trying day, but did not
think we had  come to the narrows yet, and those
who had not planted their feet on  sure founda-
tion could not possibly weather the storm.  Spoke
of her great interest in the young people, and the
regret she felt that any should fall into by and for-
bidden paths; urged the mothers to be more than
ever watchful, lest any be led astray.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde, President of the Relief So-
ciety in Sanpete Stake, occupied a few moments,
alluding to her recent visit to the Lamanite sisters
in Indiola or Thistle Valley, where they were or-
ganized and met together; said one of the
Lamanite brethren had urged her very much to
visit them.  She enjoyed her visit to them exceed-
ingly, and it seemed to do them a great deal of
good; they had a kind of re-organization, too, and
she felt they would go on better.  Made some
good and very suitable remarks about the manners
and deportment of our young ladies, and urged

[column 2]
them to be dignified in all their associations with
each other, and especially with the opposite sex.
She also bore her testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work, and affirmed her knowledge of
plural marriage, and that it was from God.
	Mrs. M. E. Kimball expressed her pleasure in
hearing the voice of Sister Hyde, for she had
known her in Nauvoo, and that she was one of
the faithful ones.  She spoke a few words and
then burst forth in the gift of tongues.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor, after some preliminary re-
marks, spoke upon the duties of mothers, and
advised them to be as careful in educating their
sons as their daughters in the ways of virtue;
thought the Lord required as much purity from
the one as from the other, and that young girls
were entitled to receive as much in that regard as
was expected of them; thought that our children
should never forget that they are chosen spirits,
and should prove themselves such by their purity
of life.
	Mrs. Mary S. Snow related some incidents in
connection with her visit to the Eastern States; she
had been successful in obtaining the records of
her dead, and hoped to be able to do a great work
in the Temple for them.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson made interesting remarks
concerning the eventful ttmes in which we are
living, and how awful it was to think of the
schemes that were laid for the overthrow of this
Church, and bore a testimony to the truth, and
earnestly entreated all to prove faithful, etc.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougal thought if each one would
do their duty there would be no need of the
different organizations; the teaching ought to
be done at home; very emphatically seconded
the advice of Mrs. E. S. Taylor, and gave other
good counsel.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of our departed sister,
that we had been in the habit of seeing on the stand so
many years, Sister Woodruff; thought we should not
mourn for one who had filled up her life with good
works and lived to such a good old age; she had
passed through many severe trials and much hard-
ship in this Church, because of the persecutions,
but had earned a great reward, and would certain-
ly get it; prayed that we might do as well as she
had done, and enter into that exaltation which we
were trying to attain.
	Mrs. Howard felt that the Spirit of the Lord
had been with us; said she hoped from this time
henceforth that no more of our sons and daughters
would be led astray; gave good advice in regard
to the training of our children.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing.
Benediction by Mrs. Julia Howe.
								E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
INTERFSTING CORRESPONENCE.

	Looking over some old manuscript, we came
across these letters; one from an Eastern gen-
tleman to his "Mormon" sister and her reply;
and, as there were many excellent items in-
cluded in them that are just as good to-day
as when they were written, we concluded to pub-
lish them. The mass meeting referred to is
the one that was held in the Salt Lake Thea-
tre in November 1878—ED.

		SALEM, Mass., Jan. 2nd, 1879.
DEAR SISTER PEKO:

	Your paper and extracts were duly received,
and read with interest as I had a desire to
hear from the wives of Utah by their own
mouths.
	The remarks of the speakers in convention
or mass meeting, are certainly intelligent, in-
deed quite able, and exhibit a hearty ac-
quiescence in "plural marriage" and a vindica-
tion of it, which our New England wives
would think very strange, yea, quite impossi-
ble—but I was by no means surprised. It

[Column 2]
only shows what decided, whole-hearted
women will always do for conscience sake—
where such women come to believe that their
God requires even the greatest sacrifices of
them. They are not the kind to falter, and I
am inclined to think that some of those noble
women—can call them nothing less who spoke
in that convention, have away down in their
"human hearts" a consciousness of great and
painful self denials in connection with their
marital experience. For I think it would be
hard to find a woman of that class who, by
nature, would not ask the whole heart of one
honest man; and who would not shrink from
sharing a dear darling husband with even one
sister woman be she never so amiable and
lovely. This is my measure of the heart of 
a true, pure and refined woman as God made
her. You are a good judge, I appeal to you
and rest my case on your testing. Now, what
sayest thou?
	But as I have said above, decided persons
under tho influence of religious obligation,
overcome the strongest sentiments of the
heart.
	We suppose only the faithful made declara-
tion of their sentiments on the question of
plurality. It would be far too much to sup-
pose that all and every Mormon wife was as
satisfied and happy in her situation as those
who so heartily defended the peculiar institu-
tion. There may be some uprisings in the
mother's breast, who, like Sarah of old, should
see her darling child "mocked" by the up-
start offspring of some Sister wife by a later
marriage—but all this and much more of the
same sort cannot settle the main question. Is
this Mormon view of domestic life the correct
one.
	Now, with your indulgence, as the minister
says, I will write you a few thonghts of my
own, though aware of my utter inability to
do the subject justice.
	In the first place my intention is to take
Jesus of Nazareth for my teacher and master,
and with my present convictions I cannot fol-
low or acknowledge any other. Believing in
Jesus, I of course accept Moses and the
prophets, although I consider that we are
under the new covenant which has superseded
the Mosaic, so we no longer have Moses as our
teacher and lawgiver, but Jesus.
	Now, as to the claims of Joseph Smith to be
a prophet from God, I cannot consider them
well established and to my mind there are
many reasons for rejecting them.
	We have no Bible prophesy, which can be
construed to foretell the advent of such a
prophet as Mr. Smith.
	With the ascending of Jesus came the
promise of his return, but no promise of
a coming prophet like unto Joseph
Smith, who should introduce a new order of
things—He, Jesus, also promised to send the
Comforter (Paraclatos) which was fulfilled on
the day of Pentecost.
	The apostles while they direct our eyes to
the coming of Jesus to judge the world in
righteousness, and establish His Kingdom, give
us no hint of the coming of a prophet like Mr.
Smith. Jesus by the parable of the Noble-
man illustrates his going and return. He
leaves us in charge of his goods and places
us under his instructions and we are to occupy
till he comes. He is the good Shepherd and
we are to follow no other. This seems to leave
no room to introduce any new order of things
between His going and coming.
	The principles and teaching of Mr. Smith
seem so discordant when viewed beside those
of Jesus and His apostles that I cannot receive
them. To do so would seem to me like going
away backward, instead of forward to a better
dispensation. The new covenant under the
Gospel of Christ is pronounced a better cove-
nant founded on better premises. Under the


[Column 1]

old, the worship of God had been more a mat-
ter of external power; under the new, worship
of the Father was to be in spirit and in truth.
Various things were allowed under the old
covenant (which law was our schoolmaster to
bring us to Christ) which were discontinued
under the new, (being no longer under a
schoolmaster, do we need to exchange Christ
for a man!)
	While I embrace the teaching of Jesus and
follow His example, how can I settle down to
this life, and surround myself with wives and
strive to lay in store the things of this life,
that I may increase the number of my wives
and family?
	Although plural marriage was practiced
and allowed under the old covenant it was
never pronounced a duty, or a means of salva-
tion for either sex, as set forth in the teaching
of Mr. Smith, and though, under the Gospel
there seems to be no direct prohibition of
plurality of wives, that matter like many
others, seems to be left to the hearts of those
who would become a law unto themselves
when they had received the first fruits of the
spirit, and we might safely appeal to the ex-
perience of any one who has drank deep of
the fountain of life in Jesus, whether we
would ask for more than one wife. How was
it with St. Paul, chief of the apostles, and
who taught in accordance with the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit, that the time had
come when those who had wives should be as
though they had them not. How different
Mr. Smith, who, teaches that plurality is a
duty, must be practiced, though it violates the
civil law of the country, and then call it re-
ligious persecution when an attempt is made
to enforce the law. Is this submitting to the
powers that the apostles command us to obey?
not of course when counted to God's com-
mands, but the pretension that God requires
men to practice plurality, is too low, sensual
and worldly. It may be claimed that it would
be better for the world to practice plurality
than do as is now done. Well suppose we ad-
mit it and leave it for the world to practice
and sanction by law, but to say that the
practice of polygamy must be better for the
Church, who should have the Spirit of Christ
and are not of the world, is to my mind awful
and absurd.
	Mr. Smith's teaching seems worldly—very
different from the Gospel, though I am told
that your people say that even Jesus had
wives, but to my mind this is utterly without
foundation and contrary to every fact of his
history. Mention is often made to his mother
and his brethren but not a word about his
wives, which silence would be very strange
if he had had them. He positively says, "The
son of man hath not where to lay his head.
This is quite incompatible with his having
wives. The evidence points to his not seeking
his own, even in this regard. This sort of ef-
fort to drag down the Savior to their own
level could be only made by men who have a
desperate cause to sustain, but is a total fail-
ure.
	The truth of the Christian religion does
not like Mormonism, rest on the credibility of
one man, but has the broadest foundation, into
which is woven the united testimony of many
men and the evidence of many miracles, and
miracles far surpassing even the claims of Mor-
monism, to which we may add the evidence of
fulfilled prophecy. Any religion, as those of
Mahomet, Swedenborg, etc., resting on the
veracity of one man, have, in my humble
opinion, no valid claim to our credence.
	It appears that plural marriage was not
taught in the original "Book of Mormon," but
added by Mr. Smith, as a new revelation (his
enemies and others say) to cover up his own
social irregularities. It seems that his brother,
Hyrum Smith, never practiced plurality, though

[Column 2]

a Mormon, and was killed with Joseph. By
the way, if we can credit history, their being
killed was a natural consequence. Training
and drilling an army looks much like taking
the sword, and we read that "he that taketh
the sword shall perish with the sword." The
State of Illinois welcomed the refugee Mor-
mons, and I think if they had been good,
peaceable citizens they would have found no
trouble.
	The whole tenor of the Gospel, as taught by
Christ and the apostles, leaves no room between
the first and second coming of Christ for such
a movement as that of Joseph Smith, unless
we class it with the lo here's and lo there's,
where it undoubtedly belongs. Permit me to
ask how you, who had experienced such ful-
ness in Christ, such rest and repose of faith in
Him, even in sickness and prospective death,
can find any consolation in the teachings and
principles of Joseph Smith? Is not salvation
through Christ if we are thus full and sure?
When He assures us that all who are His by
faith will not be lost, no one can pluck them
out of His hand, but He will raise them up at
the last day. Is not that enough? Why do 
we need a new prophet? who could not die
for us or raise us from the dead? He, Joseph
Smith, died as any mortal man dies who in-
herits death from Adam; and as there is no
name under heaven given among men whereby
we can be saved, except that of Jesus of
Nazareth; even your prophet could be saved
by no other.
	We need no other Gospel but that of Christ
till He comes. The apostles taught us to
watch for His coming, not for the appearance
of Joseph Smith. God, who in times past
spake unto our fathers, by the prophets, hath
in these last days spoken unto us by His son,
and would He now be likely to go back and
make a new revelation through a man—one
man—and that, too, a revelation of such mo-
ment—really introducting a new dispensation?
This would indeed be very strange.
	Well, that will do for once, at least you will
think so, and if I have expressed myself posi-
tively on some points, I can assure you, my
dear sister, that even stronger terms would
hardly express my feelings in the premises. I
have no enmity against any individual of your
people. I love them, and would do them good
if in my power; I would lead them to Jesus,
the Blessed One, who is the Chiefest among
ten thousand, and the one altogether lovely.
O, I would not have my heart removed from
Him for all the wealth of Utah.
	My family are all alive and in their usual
health; indeed, things are going on with us
very much as when you were here; we hope to
have been learning more of Jesus, and feel
somewhat nearer to Him than in years past.
I know of nothing of especial interest at this
time among your acquaintances here. We
had the privilege of reading your long and in-
teresting letters about Utah, and did so with
much interest. How did you pass the summer
in your sunny valley? Will you write and
tell us all the news, etc. Should be pleased to
hear from you now and then.
	Yours very truly,
		ALPHEUS C. LOCKE.

	ST. GEORGE, Utah, June, 1879.
TO MR. AND MRS. ALPHEUS C. LOCKE:
	My Dear Bro. and Sister:—Your letter,
bearing date of January 2nd, did not reach
me until February 9th; I cannot account for
the delay. The mail ordinarily reaches here
from the east in twelve days. I will make no
excuse for my own delinquences, but will now
proceed to answer though for lack of oppor-
tunity am not skilled as yourself in the use of
language. But I shall presume upon the many
years of my past experience of the kindness of

[Column 3]

both you and yours, to believe you will over-
look all such imperfections as may appear, and
see only my main object, which is to elucidate
truth.
	First of all, you have my thanks for the
just compliments you pay to the "Mormon
women;" but why not raise these same "noble
women" fully up to your standard of refine-
ment? Am glad, however, to see the one
whom you have made brought so fairly to the
front; but will you please tell me where you
got the pattern? Can she be a daughter of
Abraham? If so, you have painted her in
different colors from the way she looks as God
made her, as I view her; the feature of selfish-
ness is far too prominent to fairly represent
the model which He has placed in the fore-
ground among the "holy women," where Peter
points at her as a beacon to light up the path-
way of virtue and refinement for every pure
woman in all coming generations. This is the
model I choose to pattern after, and such are
the women who have assembled in mass meet-
ings in every settlement in the Territory to
declare the sentiments of the main body.
	You seem to be in doubt as to whether every
plural wife is "satisfied and happy." My dear
brother, can you assure me that every mono-
gamic wife lives in the enjoyment of perfect
felicity? Again, if the class of "mockers" had
only passed away with Ishmael (which, unfor-
tunately for me, they did not) I should now
have less cause to pity myself when I think
how, as a child, I was subject to such usage,
and also to a sly pummeling, which came in
seasonably to give variety to the exercises.
	It is possible you may think these childish
bickerings of eight brothers and sisters were a
peculiarity of the family to which I belonged,
and not at all common in monogamic families
generally. However this may be, I will not
stop here to determine, but will surely say that
my experience goes to show that the practice is
not wholly confined to the children of plural
wives. Now, in this connection we will look
at the main question. as you have put it "Is
this Mormon view of domestic life the correct
one?"
	You do not believe in new revelation, so, if
you will not run away from it, I will try and
meet you on your own ground (the Bible) not
only in this regard but also on some points,
which I will hereafter bring to your notice.
	In the first place, then, is not marriage a
divine institution? If so, is it not recorded as
a part of that Scripture which is given by
inspiration of God and pronounced profitable
for correction and instruction in righteousness,
that the man of God, not the world, may be
perfect—thoroughly furnished to all good
works? If so, can he be thoroughly furnished
to all good works and be perfect? (mind you,
I do not say he cannot be saved in some condi-
tion) without observing this institution. You
will certainly acknowledge that, according to
the obedience to God's laws so will the reward
be. Does not God also command this same
man to multiply? And was this law or com-
mandment ever abrogated? If the Lord ever
did go back on His word in this regard, will
you please show me the record? Yes, say you,
Paul says, "I would that all men were as I 
myself." Now, Paul was unmarried, and so
it follows, then, that if that apostle spoke all
things by inspiration, there should have been
no marriages since his day; But Jesus says,
quoting from yours, "Occupy till I come." Of
course the men of that day could say in reply,
"My Lord, how can we occupy till then, seeing
we shall all be dead?" Jesus says again. "Feed
my lambs." Is not this bidding them to gener-
ate, the result of which would be the perpetuity
of the race of mankind; but here comes Paul
again, and says, in substance, I have been
talking with God, about this matter, and He
tells me (or I think I have His Spirit dictating


[Column 1]
what I say) that you must all stop generating
and marrying; of course, which will enable
you to dispense with the "feeding of lambs,"
and He has also concluded that, after all, it is
of no consequence whether any are found
"occupying" or not; at least, brother, would
not this state of things be the result of Paul's
teachings if carried out? But Paul was a
man, and, when not speaking by inspiration,
appears as liable to mistakes as some other good
people, for that he was merely uttering his own
opinion in connection with the "shortness of
time," appears plain to be seen.
	But God, who saw the end from the begin-
ning, has frustrated the designs of Paul in
this matter, by placing in the make-up of hu-
man nature a disposition to carry out His own
purposes of creation.
	I will not, however, do you the wrong to
suppose that you, with your imaginary faith in
Paul's theory of First Cor., 7-29, ever carried
it into practice, for how can I, as the sequel
has shown?
	If I understand you aright, you place the
teachings of Paul and those of Joseph Smith
in contra-distinction to one another; and well
you may, for while Paul is teaching merely his
human opinion, Joseph Smith is teaching the
revealed will of God, both old and new. Now
Joseph ceased to live in the year 1844; he
suffered the same fate of most other prophets,
being murdered by the hands of wicked men;
but I suppose the period including the "short
time" covers at least part of the ground since
that date, and yet during this same time you
have, if I mistake not, taken to your own fold
two of Christ's sheep and several lambs, which
fact makes it look to me as if the rope with
which you have attempted to hang the Mor-
mons had somehow slipped around your own
neck; but you are not the first or only one who
has professed to adopt Paul's theory, for in
1854 some of the good advent brethren were
so exercised thereon that in Lynne a special
meeting was one night appointed after nine
o'clock, where I happened to be present and
heard the people talk Paul till midnight, when
they returned to their homes. Whatever their
conclusions were, I never knew, but the cir-
cumstance was in due time followed by an in-
crease of family among the married, much to
the chargrin of one, Bro. Lyford and wife, of
Salem, who on the discovery in their own case,
immediately isolated themselves by removing
to Danvers, because of their dread of meeting
with the holy indignation of their friend and
brother in the faith, N. Florentine, who, as
shortly appeared, was in the same predicament.
In fact, I have yet to see the person who has
carried out Paul's theory fully since 1843 on
account of the "shortness of time"
	But further, you say that the practice of
plurality was never pronounced a duty or means
of salvation for either sex. This expression
of yours serves to again remind me that you
are not a believer in Joseph Smith as a
prophet, or in the divinity of the Book of
Mormon, but you say you do accept the Old
Testament prophets of God, and for this I am
glad, because we can together listen and hear
what some of them have to say on that score.
We will begin with Moses. Did not he declare
that if a man's brother die, leaving no children,
the living brother should take the widow and
raise up seed to his dead brother. Now, sup-
posing the living brother already has a wife,
can he in that case refuse to obey the one man
who was appointed by God as the great law-
giver? And what if the widow should refuse
to accede to those terms, could they both be
saved all the same as if they had been obedient
to the command of God as given by Moses?
Even had they obeyed every other and still
have, continued to live in violation of this
single one, would they not have been pro-
nounced guilty of all? And supposing such 
were the case, would not the salvation of each

[Column 2]
have depended, at least in this instance, on
their marrying? for sin, we must remember,
is the transgression of the revealed will of
God; and suppose you not that when Jesus
came He found the Jews living in plurality?
and yet we hear not a word from Him against
it; on the contrary, He even forbids divorce,
except  adultery, which shows that more
than one wife was lawful in His day. So your
hint concerning things which were "permitted
under the law, having been discontinued under
the Gospel," does not seem to include poly-
gamy; indeed, I marvel, my dear brother, that
one so well informed as yourself should so
lightly esteem one of the greatest blessings
ever designed for the human race by an alwise
Creator.
	To be sure your crusade appears chiefly
against polygamy, for you ask "how a man filled
with the Spirit of God could desire more than
one wife?"
	Perhaps that question can be better answered
by one of your own sex, as I will bye and bye
attempt to show you. Being myself a woman
you will excuse me if my sympathies in this
matter are entirely on her side, for tell me,
now, is not the system of plurality a fine thing
for women? It is in my opinion only a
false education that prevents a responsive "yes"
from the majority of women. Besides utility
in more than one respect to them--how other-
wise can "every woman have her own husband?"
for right in your own State of Mass. there are
seventy thousand more females than males (see
Dr. Lewis, in "Our Girls," page 150.) It ap-
pears to me that throughout the world general-
ly the females out number the males.
	You probably remember the record in the
second book of Samuel 12th chapter, and 8th
verse, where God by the mouth of the Prophet
Nathan, gave a number of the wives of Saul
into the bosom of David, who, as you will see,
must have had the Spirit of God at that time,
he being a "man after God's own heart,"
and yet God, whom you will allow to be a
wiser judge than myself or any man could be,
saw fit to add to the number which this spiritual
minded man, David, already possessed; one
would think in these days that then, this "good
man" ought to have been satisfied, and if he
was not he could have had more had he ob-
tained them lawfully, God's word being the
standard, but he was not to steal another man's
wife, nor shed innocent blood, both of which
crimes he committed, and these were the crimes
for which he suffered; a heavy penalty, but not
for desiring more wives than one. Of course
you must now admit that in more than one
instance a plurality of wives was more than 
permitted.
	Again, you inquire "how you could, with
your present  convictions, surround yourself
with the things of this world in order to in-
crease the number of your wives and family?"
I would also ask if you have not always
done what your law allows you in that line?
Of course you are squinting a little at the
Mormons again; so I will say that being driven
from their homes in a civilized and Christian
country into a desert, where their enemies were
so sure, they would starve to death that they
taunted them with the offer of a thousand
dollars for the first bushel of wheat they would
raise upon the arid soil they lack, in some
instances, many of the comforts and the
beauties of your surroundings--you see their
motive in fleeing here was not to aggrandize
themselves, but to keep the law of God, which
they understand requires of them one tenth of
all their income (whether it be a bushel of 
wheat, or less) to help on His cause, and having
faith in Him more than in all the world, be-
fore the sun set the day they arrived in Salt
Lake Valley they had planted potatoes and
corn, and the next day they "smote the rock"
and brought water from the mountains, which
the Lord had filled, and with which they have

[Column 3]
irrigated their lands and raised the bushel of
wheat (which, like the widow's barrel of meal,
so famous for its never failing qualities) has,
by the blessing of God, not only kept them in-
dependent of their neighbors for bread, but
has also fed some of their enemies. (I would
here remark that they never saw the color of
the money which was offered for the bushel of
wheat, neither did they expect to.) At the
time of the great fire in Chicago, President
Brigham Young sent them $1,000, and the
collections from the Mormons altogether, as I
am informed, amounted to several thousands.
This fact, and also the account of their giving
five hundred to the yellow fever sufferers at
one time last year you may have seen recorded
in the Eastern papers.
	As I was not in Illinois at the time this peo-
ple migrated there, I cannot take oath as to
whether they were warlike or not, but I can
say that in all my intercourse among them I
have seen no such spirit manifested to their
enemies; on the contrary, I have noticed that
in all their preaching and teaching, and in all
their writings a spirit of the utmost forbear-
ance is inculcated.
	May I hope that I shall not weary you while
I say a few words on the subject of the resurrec-
tion.
	It is stated in the New Testament, John 5-
21, that the Father raiseth up the dead and
quickeneth them, which would seem as if no
other person had anything to do with it. But
hark. Even so, just as His Father did it, the
Son quickeneth--who? Everybody? Whom
He will. So we see already two persons en-
gaged in the work, and yet it says again, in
verse 25th, the dead shall hear the voice of
the Son, which is to raise them to life, as if
the Father had nothing whatever to do with it;
but in verse 19, of the same chapter, it says
that even Jesus could do nothing only as He
learned how by first seeing His Father do the
same, and, being the Son, He is heir not only
of His glory, but also of His power, to raise
the dead. Now, Christ, being taught by and
assisting His Father, would it be strange if He
should confer the same power on His younger
brothers, by teaching them how to do the same?
Perhaps you will say this cannot be the design
of the Almighty, or it would be so recorded;
but who can say it has not been? There are a
number of books referred to in Scriptures
which are not preserved between its covers.
This fact is an argument to my mind in favor
of the necessity of new revelation, for how else
can we be instructed in all things which go to
make a man perfect? Certainly the books re-
ferred to were intended for that purpose. Be-
sides, it is stated in those we have that if all
the things which Christ did and said were
written, the world itself could not contain the
books; so that some truths are barely hinted at,
like, for instance, the baptism for the dead, a
work, by the way, which I know no people in
the world to be doing except the Mormons.
	Again it says Christ shall judge the world;
and is it any more marvelous to suppose that
the Saints shall assist in raising the dead than
that they shall judge the world--and thus it is
written.
	I can find as much consolation in the one
idea as the other, believing each to be true,
and both surpassingly glorious.
	You argue that Joseph Smith cannot be a
true prophet, because the Scriptures do not
describe him as such. There is evidence
enough in them to satisfy me, and if I should
write you again I will give you the references;
I fear I may weary you now. and I wish to 
take further notice of some other of your ob-
jections; but I will just remark that I am not
aware that the "young men and maidens" were
not so minutely described as to be recognized
by everyone. Some supposed they were a
parcel of drunken people, instead of the peo-
ple of Joel's prophecy, and how was it wi[---]


Christ? Did every one believe He was the
Son of God? Besides other vile epithets heaped
upon Him, he was called a "gluttonous man
and a wine bibber," and the most pious persons
that could be found got up a crusade against
Him and His followers,and the work of annihi-
lation is still going on now. 
	Your reference to the "Mormon" faith that
Christ had wives—this idea is merely inferen-
tial. You will recollect that at the marriage
in Cana of Gallilee, Jesus was called "the
Bridegroom" The bride is not here mentioned,
but who, I ask, but a wife would, even in these
degenerate days, come publicly and wash a
man’s feet with her tears and wipe them with
the hair of her head? Christ did not seem to
think the marriage ordinance so degrading to
Himself, but what He could sanction it with
His presence. Who was it I wonder, that so
dragged Him down to the level of mankind
as to induce Him to submit to be circumcised
and baptized? Was it not His own choice?
Did He not say it was becoming in Him to
fulfill all righteousness? Well, then, the ordin-
ance of marriage is righteous, or it is not;
Which horn of the dilemma will you take?
Perhaps He respected His Father’s wisdom
and judgment in framing such a law, and con-
sidered it as pure and holy as any other, and
one of the most sacred, and it is only wicked
men, such as many who sit in Congress, who
would seek to break down what God has
joined.
	Such men as I have just described know
little and care less how many hearts may
bleed, or how many homes may be made deso-
late by the breaking up of families in the
separation of husbands and wives, parents
and children.
	Have you ever reflected, my dear brother,
upon the consequences to this people if this
law just made—which is made by ungodly
men—should be carried out? Just think of
more than fifty thousand happy wives sudden-
ly made widows, some of whom have taken me
lovingly to their heart and home. “God setteth
the solitary in families." Believing He placed
me here, is it any wonder that my sympathies
are wholly with the people in this matter?
Knowing your kindness I am sure it must
undergo a great change ere you can look
placidly out from your pleasant surroundings
amid your loved and loving family, and see
those whose hearts are just as tender, their
affections as deep, and homes as dear to them-
selves for the love that is sheltered beneath
each roof, and not feel sorrow and indignation
at a law which brings naught but evil to an
innocent, industrious and happy people.
	Though your religious belief differs from
theirs, I feel assured your influence will not go
to rob them of all that life holds dear. Their
practice of polygamy affects no one who does
not wish it, and is no crime, except as pro-
nounced so by man-made law; God’s law does
not condemn it,but is on their side; so I believe,
and were I thirty years younger. I would test
the system practically; and you should have
experience therein.
	I am very sorry we are obliged to differ so
widely in our religious views; I would like it
better if, like this people, you could, according
to the Scriptures, "Walk by the same rule and
speak the same thing." I am,
		Very truly your friend,
			REBEKAH D. PEKO.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


It is proposed to erect a memorial church
to the memory of Mrs. Elizabeth, Fry, the
mother of modern philanthropy.  Plasket
Park, in Essex, a few miles out of London,
was her residence at the time of her memorable
visit to Newgate, and it is proposed to build
the church on the site where her garden once
stood. A large sum has been already contribu-
ted by friends and admirers of Mrs. Fry."


HYGIENIC NOTES.
					---
	WITCH HAZEL.--(Medical properties and uses of the
bark and leaves.)  For neuralgia, take a large teaspoonful
of the dried and pressed leaves, as obtained at the drug
store, and sleep like common tea; using cream and sugar
according to taste.  Try it one night and one morning, and
note the result.
	"Astringent, tonic and sedative, used mostly in decoc-
tion, which is good as an astringent in diarrehea, dysentery,
and in bleeding from the lungs, stomach, and urinary
organs, taken freely interanlly; as a wash to old and foul
ulcers; as an injection in Leucorrhoea, flooding, and falling
of the womb, and as a gargle and wash in sore mouth and
throat.  Dosed of the decoction, from half to a teacupful
three or four times a day."


A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT
						---
TO THE MEMORY OF SISTER HARRIET K. BURNHAM,
	FROM THE SISTERS OF THE DRAPER BELIEF
					SOCIETY.
						---
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to remove
by death our much beloved President, we feel it our duty to
show some public token of our esteem for her past services.
Sister Burnham died at the Deseret Hospital, Salt Lake
City, July 24th, 1885.  It was a very unexpected loss to
the Society and cast a gloom over the whole ward.  Sister
Burnham was not only very much beloved by all the sisters
of the Relief Society, but by all who had the pleasure of
her acquaintance.  She was ever kind and sympathizing, a
devoted mother, a true friend, and faithful Latter-day Saint;
and,
	Whereas, Sister Burnham was our President for fifteen
years and has given us many good instructions, and always
advised us to economize our time and means to the best ad-
vantage, may we profit by her teachings and good example,
that when our earthly race is ended, we may be found as
ready and well prepared as she was; for while we mourn
her loss, we feel assured that she is far happier in the so-
ciety of her dear, departed husband and friends.
	Resolved, That we sympathize with her bereaved family,
and pray God our Heavenly Father to bless them with His
Holy Spirit, and guide them in the footsteps of their dear
parents.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed upon our
record, and a copy be presented to the bereaved family,
also given to the EXPONENT for publication.
						CATHERINE SMITH, Prest.
						HANNAH BURNHAM, Sec.
	She is gone to her rest--then a loving goodbye,
		For a time, our fond sister, adieu;
	We'll think of thy bliss and our tears we will dry,
		And we'll joyfully hope yet to join thee on high,
		Our friendship and love to renew.


[column 1]
THIS PAPER can be found on the 
tables of the
N. D. C. READING ROOM,
718 Washington St., BOSTON, MASS.
	DR. JAMES A. BLISS is duly authorized by 
us to receive subscriptions and to make con-
tracts for advertising at our regular rates.
	The Reading Room is open daily to the 
public (except Sundays) from 9 a. m. to 5 p.
m.
---------------------------------------------------------
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
A full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[hand pointing right] CALL AND EXAMINE
----------------------------------------------------------
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS, CAS, WATER, & STEAM FITTERS
------
[hand pointing right] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from 
the country promply responded to.
[hand pointing right] Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 8[-]6, SALT LAKE CITY.

[column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[typed up left side of picture]
Light Running!  Noiseless!  Simple!
Strong!  Durable!  Reliable!  Elegant!

[ink print picture of sewing machine on sewing macine table]

[written up right side of picture]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine.  It has been
in the Market 23 Years.

Young Brothers,
38 Main Street,		Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."
------------------------------------------------------------
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
------
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[hand pointing right] We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
--------------------------------------------------------------
Special to the Ladies.
------
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of  Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
