Vol. 14. 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH; SEPTEMBER 1, 1885. 		No. 7.


A LITTLE GIRL’S VIEW OF THE MOR-
		MON QUESTION.
I’m a daughter of Utah for here I was born;
I am gay and light-hearted, and bright as the morn.
I don’t quite remember the dreary old days
When crickets and grasshoppers, black ones and grays,
Ate up the potatoes, the barley and wheat,
And left the Pioneers very little do eat.

I can't say I know for myself, understand,
How their children went barefoot all over the land,
How meat was unknown for three-fourths of the year,
And frost took the corn ere it reached roasting ear,
How wild roots and berries were hunted for food,
And men went by twos with their guns after wood.

Before I was born all these things passed away:
Our fathers and mothers held starvation at bay,
They planted the shadetrees, the rattlesnakes killed,
And built some large granaries and got them well filled.
And railroads and telegraphs, too, they have made.
And of the poor Indians are no more afraid.

Schoolhouses and churches I see everywhere,
Wherever I turn all looks pleasant and fair;
The old folks are cheerful, after all they have done,
And the children, I tell you, are jolly as fun;
The good times we have can never be told,
Oh often I wish I might never grow old!

I mentioned schoolhouses—well I’ve learned to read—
For books and newspapers, I have a great greed;
But some things I read make me feel very sad.
For to leave a poor baby, all alone in the night,
On somebody’s doorstep, can never be right.

And when the folks living there wont take it in,
But send it on further, I think that's a sin;
And when of such children a hundred or more
Are sent to one place just built for the poor,
I think that the fathers and mothers out there
Are nothing like ours, and I’m glad I live here.

I read of poor children who live in the street,
Except what they beg for they've nothing to eat.
No parents or friends to surround them with care,
And only the raggedest clothing to wear;
And I wish, Oh I wish! they to Utah could come,
For I know in a week each would find a good home.

I’ve heard that some folks call the Mormons, a set
Of dreadfully wicked, bad people; and yet
I don't hear them quarrel and mention bad names,
Tell lies and the name of our Maker profane;
They work and they study, to God bow the knee,
And love boys and girls; and that satisfies me.
								LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
			HOME.
	It has been very wisely remarked that in
order to fully appreciate the blessing and
comforts of life, it is necessary for a person to
be deprived of them for a time. Who can so
much appreciate the cheerful home fireside,
the association with parents and friends, as
those who have been  called to face the hard, cruel
world alone, away from the kind, cheerful
faces and helping hands of the loved ones?
Home is the haven of rest to which we flee
when the day's work is done. Here we can
rest in quietness and peace; with none to mo-
lest or disturb us, and where we can always
find comfort and assistance when needed
	What is so cheerful a sight as to see father,
mother, brothers and sisters surrounding the
bright and cheerful hearth, each happy in the
other's love, and all contend with their lot?
I look back with much pleasure to some pleas-

[Column 2]
ant home scenes in which I have participated
and think of the many cheerful winter eve-
nings spent in my girlhood, when seated with
my dear ones around the large open fireplace,
piled high with the crackling logs, blazing and
dancing lighting up the faces of that happy
group, I have listened for hours to interesting
anecdotes and sad experiences of my parents,
which they took pleasure in relating for our
amusement and edification, pointing out little
instances here and there in their experience,
which we could profit by and improve upon.
	It is to this period of life we refer with
sweet and tender memories, and ineffaceable
impressions are made upon the mind, which in-
fluence very materially the thoughts and deeds
of more mature years.
	Home is. of all places on earth, the spot
which should approach nearest to what we be-
lieve heaven to be, and the laws and princi-
ples which result in making that the coveted
boon of mortal existence, and to which all
look forward as the reward of patient toil,
are those which should enter largely into the
formation or government of the earthly home,
so far as human beings understand and apply
them. It is said, and reflection and reason
corroborate the statement, that "order is heav-
en's first law." So also should it be the first law
in the home. Where there is disorder and
confusion the Spirit of God cannot abide, and
peace, love and happiness cannot be found.
The old adage, "A place for everything and
everything in its place," is a homely one, but
it is one that effects materially the good order
of a home and the joy of its inhabitants.
	Again we believe that selfishness must be
rooted from the heart, the temper brought un-
der control, and all the baser elements of
our nature brought into subjection, and charity,
brotherly love, kindness, and all the virtues
highly cultivated, ere we can hope to find a
place in the habitation of our Heavenly Father;
so also should the same evils be overcome, the
same virtue substituted therefor, in the
earthly home, if we desire or expect it to be
the haven of rest, the peaceful, happy abode
which the name of home should ever imply.
And this can only be accomplished by the in-
dividual efforts of every member of the house-
hold.
	There is one thing that should be especially
cultivated in the home, and that is refinement
- good language, gentle, kind manners, respect
for the feelings and desires of others - and every-
thing which is contrary to this, or would tend to
coarseness or vulgarity, should be banished
far from the heart and home, and never al-
lowed to abide for a single moment under its
roof.
	There is nothing that upsets a home, and
causes more discontent and dissatisfaction there-
in than the evil which we find very prevalent,
I regret to say, of scolding, fretting and fault-
finding. I have been in many homes where
everything was scrupulously neat and clean,
the members of the household were intelli-
gent and refined, and yet I have felt thankful
when my visit was ended and it was time to
leave the house. And why? Because the
mother (which is often the case) or some one
of the family, was scolding, fretting, or find-
ing fault with some one or something, until I
felt weary and glad to leave; otherwise I should
have enjoyed prolonging my visit, as ofttimes
the associations with the family and inter-
change of ideas was pleasant and agreeable.

[Column 3]
I do not fear to say that to a greater or less
degree this failing is indulged in the majority
of homes, and has been the cause of much
misery and unhappiness, for if a visitor of a
few hours can feel the unpleasant influence,
how much more effect must it have upon those
who daily experience it. As a natural conse-
quence, it deadens the sensitive feelings, hard-
ens the heart, and to a deplorable extent ban-
ishes love and unity of feelings from the home
circle in which it is indulged. I have known
instances where parents have wondered why
their children were desirous of leaving home,
why they seemed to find more pleasure in other
places than their own homes, when their pa-
rents would do almost anything to contribute
to their amusement. Mothers, the trouble lies
mainly in this fact that I have mentioned.
And often, quite often, very serious results have
occurred through this too prevalent, though
often unconcious error.
	So much depends upon the mother's influ-
ence, and next to her, the daughter's and sis-
ters in making the home pleasant and attrac-
tive, that I felt the subject would be a good
and suitable one for an essay for the Young
Ladies Association. And as the subject is an
important one, and one, too, that opens into a
field of thought that is almost endless, I trust
these few lines and the hints thrown out, may
spring forth and result in good to us all.
							M. H. T.


AN OCEAN VOYAGE.

   It always makes a great difference as to what
the circumstances are under which a thing is
written. You have asked for a description of an
ocean voyage. Here are two equally truthful,
but vastly different as the feelings of the writer
were different. The first was written mid-
ocean. The second while sailing up the chan-
nel, when the day was warm, the sea smooth
and the outlines of  land were plainly visible.
				No 1.
   The romantic never tire reading of the
beauties of the ocean. Yet even as good a
thing as the sea, becomes monotonous after a
time. One who has been eight or nine days
on the water, without friends and with very
few agreeable companions is decidedly apt to
sigh for a sight of land--for one more look at
hills and valleys, for wooded heights looking
far into the azure sky, or even for the bare
and brown and barren soil, and the desire for
a sight of mother earth is materially heightened
by the sensation peculiar to those who have
not been blessed with what travelers call "sea
legs," but what might more appropriately be
termed a "sea," or, using a synonym, a "cast-
iron stomach." The rapture of a sea voyage
would doubtless be greatly enhanced were one
conscious of the power to land at his sweet
will; but the enforced agony is the "rub," and
it is this that causes the weary watcher of the
wave to chafe. Byron was right, and one can
heartily endorse his utterances, when is cor-
rectly accented the oft quoted passage:

	There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore;
	There is society where none intrudes
		By the deep sea, and music in its roar."

   The rapture of the ocean is strictly con-
fined to the shore. "A life on the ocean wave"
is no doubt a very delightful thing to those who


[Column 1]
enjoy that sort of thing; but even on a fine
day, with a smooth sea, it is difficult for the
internal man to picture anything that is
beautiful.  One stands in the boat gazing about
him, his vision limited by the uniting of sea
and sky at a given distance,the vessel being the
very centre of what appears to be a large dish
in the concave side of which we are flounder-
ing about. It is true, the overpowering monot-
ony is broken at times by the appearance of
another sail in the dish, and the joy of the
veriest old "sea dog" at any relief whatever
from the prevailing monotony is to be seen in 
the alacrity with which he heads himself about
so as to get a fully view of the stranger. An ocean
voyage may be very tame or very exciting as
the circumstances make it. It might be a very
pleasant one and yet lacking in incidents of
especial interest or it may be fully of interest,
and anything but pleasant. Heavy storms; an
accident, or the too imminent approach to ice-
berg- those diamond mountains, glistening and
sparkling in the sunlight or glimmering and
shimmering in the full light of the moon, may
give life to the event and make it ever memora
ble. For my part, however. I had rather be
on shore and send some one out tnto the pond
to stir up a commotion when I wanted to see
the ocean in its wildest merriest mood. Talk
about the varying mood of the sea! The only
variation and (it is as anything but of frequent
occurrence) is to see it smooth. It is either
rough or smooth, or " 'alf hand 'alf." So far as
any difference in appearance is concerned, one
might as well be in  prison for three months
as on the ocean for a like period when there is
no land visible. Before one goes to bed at 
night he takes a fond farewell look at the
watery dish; arising the following morning he
gazes out upon the same old watery platter, a
few waves having perhaps come to be disjointed
through the night. But for the knowledge
that a given number of hours have elapsed,
one is unconscious of the fact that any change
in position has been made or any advance se-
cured.
	For several days, at least, nearly all the
passengers are in their cabins "bleaching out."
They come up on a fine day only to succumb
again when the sea begins to get stirred up.
There is a look of fiendish delight in
the eyes of the ship's officers at the "much
better, thanks" from the white and bloodless
lips, in response to the gruff, "how are you
'smorning?" while the gastly smile of the gulping
passenger seems to afford a degree of pleasure
not exceeded by the prospects of a rattling
good breakfast. There is always a warm, oily,
greasy smell about the ship that makes a fellow
feel as though it were a well of lobelia. The
sea itself for three or four days, has a nauseat-
ing odor, which sets the internal apparatus
a-quivering. A person must have a cast-iron
stomach, anyhow, to endure the perfume of
the cabin for the first four days, and when he
comes off deck he has to dash for his room as
though pursued by demons lest he should be
caught in "the act." I will back one good
whiff from the steerage against the best known
medicine in the world as an emetic. It is
warranted to upset the stoutest stomach with-
in 36 hours, and keep it upset for a considera-
ble length of time.
	It is entertaining to note the proneness, one
might say fondness of passengers (who have
been conspicuously absent during meal hours
and from the deck in daylight) for the “shades
of evening”. The faster these fall the more
rapidly do the bowels of the ship deliver up
those who have sought its seclusion in the day.
One sees male and female convulsively grasp
ing the cabin companionway railing, while afar
away "oh give me back 'me' native heath, I
never more will roam the mighty deep" sort of a
look o’erspreads their pale and emaciated
features. In the less aristocratic quarter of
the vessel, the boat side seems to be the popu-

[Column 2]
lar resort during the dark watches of the night;
ever and anon one or another of these hang-
ing over, seem to have discovered something
of living- of surpassing interest in the waves
beneath. One often hears a sea voyave recom-
mended for persons suffering from a complica-
tion of diseases. There is little doubt of its
efficacy. What is left of the individual after
it is over ought to be healthy. It partakes of
the nature of the toothache- all other evils
are swallowed up in it, but the cure is infinite
ly worse than the disease. Oh, for about two
inches of land if a fellow only had it in his
pocket. This may sound like a joke, but the
following extracts from the dairy of a very "dear
friend" of mine will tell the tale: 'March 24
sailed from New York. Taken sick 7 hours
after starting. March 25, sick. March 26,
sick. March 27, crawled up on deck, but feel
very bad. March 28, fine day, feel better.
March 29, a little rough, sick again. March
30, feel fine. March 31, actually want to eat.
April 1, rough again and sick again. April 2,
very sick until land is sighted; get up and feel
way up. April 3, nothing like an ocean voyage
after all- at least I hope there isn't. On land
once more. Oh joy, oh rapture."
	No. 2. 
	"The sea! The sea!" Oh, glorious sea! Ever
flowing, ever throbbing with new pulsations.

	"It plays with the clouds, 
	It mocks the skies
	Or like a cradles creature lies."

	Calm and placid as a zephyr-swept lake;
leaping in frolic, or heaving mountain high,
there is perpetual variation as there is forever
unrest in the ocean. "Oh, restless sea!” I
have read of the deep green of the ocean,
heard it referred to in times of ecstacy, and have
looked for it while upon the way, day after
day, but never saw it until now. From New
York until the shores of Ireland came in
view, the water has been a dark, slaty hue;
save momentarily when the wind, catching and
breaking the crest of passing wave into a veil
of whitest and purest spray would fling it
athwart another flying wave, with whose
depths it would gradually sink, revealing as it
faded from sight, all the colors of the rainbow,
the varied, brightened and incandescent tints
of the opal and quartz crystal- dancing for a
few moments in the full sunlight, gladdening
the heart and filling the eye with indescriba-
ble radiance, and then passing away forever.
There is beauty, poetry, sublimity and always
music in the ocean. There is beauty when the
day is full of sunshine; when the night is rich with
the light of the silvery moon; when the flashing
of the waves against the sides of the onward go-
ing boat beat time and produce melody and
rhythm incomparable - the music of nature.
There is sublimity, there is majesty when the
sea, lashed to a fury, leaps mountain high,
and the mighty waves fling themselves in mad-
dened wrath against the struggling ship, until
she quivers again as if in anger, the while a
yawning gulf opens before us on either side.
How the bosom swells with confidence, and the
pride of mankind thrills through the being
to see the toy- this child of the hand of man—
right and rise in majesty and grace and
strength, seeming to show contemptuous defi-
ance for the furious lashing of the mighty
wave, Then is it grand, majestic, sublime and
there is an anthem in the roar that swells the
proud and exlutant heart and finds an echo in
in the whole being. There is poetry in the
ocean when white capped waves chase white
capped waves, when they dance in the sunlight,
clash arms; rush at each other as if in anger,
never resting, still pursuing, still evading as
far as the ever unsatisfied eye can see. And
at night there is a sublimity, softened by the
shadowed hours, in the deep and dreamy fancies
awakened in the mind and echoed in the heart

[Column 3]
by watching the dark smoke as it emerges from
the high funnel and glides noiselessly into the
night air; and by the fresh breeze is wafted in-
to fantastic forms, recalling the dread genii of
tales of fairy land and of the "Arabian nights."
There is a tenderness incomparable when the
waves murmur like gentle winds stealing
through leaf-hidden trees, with green and
dancing sunlight reflected in a myriad directions
as from a shattered glass, while the warm, sun-
lit sky arches low till wave and heaven meet
in a fond, and one could wish indissoluble em-
brace, with blue sky and blue wave abounding;
when the moon floods the air and sea with a serene
and hallowed glory, and the track along the
wave is as the shimmering hoar frost glisten-
ing in the moonlit air of a winter's night, or
when on a rugged shore, the breakers rise
slowly up like spirits robed in spotless white,
lifting higher and higher and higher, until,
breaking into a multitude of spires, pinnacles
and minarets, they gently subside into the
wave only to give place to other forms equally
as fantastic; whenever, at whatever hour, in any
mood and at all times, the ocean is grand,
beautiful, sublime.
	About 2 o'clock on the ninth day the coast
of Ireland became visible - and as we ap-
proached the shore, the water, which had been
pretty rough grew gradually smooth. Now,
for the first time, I saw the green of the ocean
- the green of poet and of painter. We
could see the thatched roofs in places and the
fields separated by hedges, storm clouds were
passing over the Island pouring out their
grateful drops, as one often sees when in our
moutain home. Nothing could be more
beautiful. The evening came on calm and
lovely. The sun huug low over the wave in
the west. A fleecy cloud obscured its stronger
rays like a light and airy veil, and filled the
air with warmest tints. The blue sky arched
over; the calm, green wave beneath. The
vessel glided on; the waves scarce make a
ripple. As the sun reaches the horizon, the
sea before us is filled with tiny sails dancing
on the unbroken bosom of the water; they are
countless in number and their sails of tan-
bark hue, are spead out to catch the fitful
and almost imperceptible breeze. We are
prssing through the Irish mackerel fleet; some-
times the boats are so close that their inmates
salute us, sometimes afar off dancing in the
waves in the calm and soothing eventide. The
sun a huge molten ball, sinks into the western
water, taking with it the burning track of
light that lay along the sea, and the words of
Moore’s incomparable song involuntarily
break forth.
	“How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
	And sunbeams melt along the silent sea;
	For thee, sweet dreams of other days arise,
	And mem'ry breaths her vesper sigh to thee.

	And, as I watch the line of light that plays,
	Along the smooth wave toward the burning west,
	I long to tread that golden path of rays,
	And think 't might, lead to some bright isle of rest

	The twilight comes; night's shades creep
slowly o'er the wave, and the outlines of the
Green Isle of the sea grow fainter; and fainter
the sails of the tiny fleet fade from view, "day's
latest red sinks down the west, and stars creep
out of heaven's breast."
	"Twas twilight there, and Dian hung her bow
	Low down the west; and there a star,
	Kindly on thee and me, from far
	Looked down; and blessed us through the passing glow."

	Night fell. The moon rose large, red and
full, out of the dark sea. In half an hour
heavens and ocean were flooded with a glorious
romantic and hallowed light in which one
loves to linger, which always awakens the better
and more tender emotions of the heart. Can such
an evening ever fade from the mind? Can the
effect in the heart ever cease?
				WANDERING BOY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL TO LOVE

Fiercely rolls the mountain torrent,
	Fiercer far the love I feel;
As a rock by lightning riven,
	Throbs the wound that will not heal.
Maiden, thou whose sunny glances
	Cause this icy breast to flow,
Can thy heart be made of marble?
	Must thy bosom be as snow?

Like the sound of sighing breezes,
	Sweeping o'er the wooded hill;
Or the sobbing of the waters,
	When all else is calm and still,
Must this heart heave on forever
	'Neath its passion swift or slow,
And thine own remain unyielding—
	Fix'd and frozen as the snow?

Burns the flame that finds no fuel?
	Shall the unfed fountain run?
Sings the bird that wakes no echo?
	Blooms the flow'r that sees no sun?
How shall then my soul's affection
	Gleam with unrequited glow,
Or, like sun o'er Alpine summits,
	Shine upon eternal snow?

Love!—O sweet but cruel passion!—
	Thou wert never kind to me.
Bowed I ne'er before thine altar,
	But to see thee turn and [-]ee.
Never more will I adore thee,
	False and fickle goddess—Go!
For thy brow is white as marble,
	But thy bosom cold as snow.
Logan, August, 1885.


THE ROYAL MARRIAGE.

	TO H. R. H. PRINCESS BEATRICE.

	Two Suns of Love make day of human life,
Which else with all its pains and griefs and heaths
Were utter darkenss—one, the Sun of dawn
That brightens thro the Mother's tender eyes,
And warns the child's awakenting world—and one 
The later-rising Sun of spousal Love
Which from her hosuehold orbit draws the child
To move in other spherers.  The Mother weeps
At that white fuenral To the single life.
Her maiden daughter's marriage, and her tears
Are half of pleasure, half of pain—the child
Is happy—ev'n in leaving her! but Thou,
True daughter, whose all-faithful, filial eyes
Wilt neither quit the widow'd Crown, nor let
This later lighto f Love have risen in vain,
But moving thro the Mother's home, between
The two that love thee, lead a summer life,
Sway'd by each Love, and swaying to each Love
Like some conjunctured planet in mid heaven 
Between two Suns, and drawing down from both 
The light and genial warmth of double day.
	TENNYSON.
July, 1885.


[Column 1]
	PROCREATION

	"The place whereon thou standest is holy ground."
	I realize the sanctity of the above extract
from holy writ, as I commence the subject I
am about to briefly consider.
	As I lay on my bed in the silent watches of
the night, in that indescribable mood between
sleeping and waking, something of the follow-
ing thoughts floated thro' my brain, vividly
impressing it.
	What a wonderful and mysterious work is
Procreation! how little, if at all, understood
by the world, or even by a large majority of the
Latter-day Saints.  It is shocking to think
and know, how it is performed in what is called
the world! without one thought of prepara-
tion; or the mighty results of such communion.
One party perhaps, charged with nothing but
coarse animal passion, even if not inflamed
by stimuli, which is often the case, while the

[Column 2]
other, it may be, is refined, delicate, and ele-
vated in her very nature.  As a wife, pure
and holy, and desiring worthily to fulfill her
marital covenants, but without any previous 
drawing out of her love, or endearments or
the slightest reflection of the end and pur-
pose of such an association, she is seized as
the victim, or receptacle of mere animal pas-
sion?  Imagine the constant repetition of such
a course, can love hold out, and endure such a
semblence of ravishment, and prostitution?
harsh words these, but no other would rightly
portray the acts, tho' a wedded wife, she feels
outraged, and how many bitter tears fall as
an accompaniment.  She cannot but feel she is
degraded. No wonder if her cry at such a
moment is that she may be released from such
a tie; or supposing not quite so bad a case, yet
where the mind and the system has had no
previous preparation, where is the joy, the love,
the extacy that should attend the procreation
of an immortal being.  Will a passive endur-
ance, or animal love alone produce a taber-
nacle worthy of an immortal being, which
should be one partaking of the elements of
which eternity is composed, and which ought
to inspire its conception?
	When we realize the reverse of all this need
we marvel at the beings we often  meet, who if
they ever attain purity of character it must be
by a crucifying process, and few minds are
strong enough to combat with a perverted
nature.  There are many phases which such a
union may produce, and consequently the
different natures and temperaments one meets
with; I feel sure that Latter-day Saints, many
of the most enlightened, study, with holy fear
and reverence, the wonderful and often ill-
understood command "Be fruitful and multi-
ply"—hat was given when there were but
two human beings upon the earth, and before
the earth was replenished or cultivated.
Let us meditate a moment upon the
tremendous responsibility incurred when the
being we call into existence is to live thro' the
countless ages of eternity, and who will carry
the organization with all its propensities, high
or low, thro' all these countless ages for these
form identity.  Would it not be worthy therefore
to study how we may prepare ourselves to pro-
create beings the elements of whom shall be
life, strength and unfading beauty, not dis
ease, distortion, decay, and death. To obtain
the former, we must be filled with life-giving
principles at the conception of that being, then
it will be an honor to the great Father of "the
spirits of all flesh," as also to its earthly parent-
age, and a blessing temporally and eternally
to the individual being.
	Then my thoughts suggest that beings
meditating such communion should draw out
by the best affections each possess by kind and
elevating association, for they are equal in this
wondrous act "neither are greater or less
than the other."  The Duetto should endeavor
to elevate their individual nature and charac-
ter and so act and react on each other; agreea-
ble reading or conversation, beautiful soul
thrilling music and even agreeable food; all
these and much more are essentials.
	There is a language without sound, which
the loving soul intuitively comprehends.
Should the mind of either be harassed it
should be soothed by gentle sympathy till
calm, and peace is restored to the whole organi-
zation; omit nothing that will strengthen, puri-
fy, refine and elevate both mind and body;
give the body especial and refining attention,
for it is to transmit a temple for an immortal
being. Then when thus molded and prepared,
and a sweet and heavenly mood produced, let
hands be joined in holy love and confidence,
and kneeling together in holy prayer, implore
the sanctifying, purifying influence of the 
Spirit of God to be infused into each system,
that the act may be pure and holy, that a
tabernacle may be organized in which a noble

[Column 3]
spirit may "enter in and dwell there;" that when
in days to come it may enter upon its earthly
career in the rich abundance of maturity, all
shall be constrained to say "behold one who
was born in Zion, whom the Lord hath blest."
To be an agent, a co-partner in such a heaven-
ly enterprise who would shrink from suffering.
Volumes might be written upon this marvel-
lous, mysterious subject, but I pray even this
hint may cause deeper thoughts to arise in the
pure bosom, that yearns to know the way of
truth and holiness that it may walk therein, for
no others do I make these thoughts palpable,
but I glory in the thought that God and angels
witness them.
	HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, August 1885.


THE PAY OF SINGERS.

	Mme. Nilsson, in a conversation with a friend,
recently discussed the earnings of soprano
singers. She said: 
	"You think the rate we are paid is extrava-
gant. I have had severe losses at times, but these
have nothing to do with the question are we
overpaid? Now, in the first place mon ami, we
are rare, we song birds. You can count all
the soprani of the first line on the fingers of
one hand. Now, take our kindred artist, the 
painter. He is not such a rare bird as a
soprano. If he is really good, and paints por-
traits in London or Paris, he makes from [symbol for pounds]10,-
000 to [symbol for pounds]20,000 a year. He is not only not
rare—he is numerous. What say you of your
Millais, Holl, Leighton, Herkomer, Ouless in
London; and Meissonnier, Carolus Dunran
and Cabanel, not to mention poor Bastien-Le-
page, in Paris, as well as Sargent and several
more? We singers are rare; we are competed
for; and according to your natural law of value,
fetch a high price, as would a fairly handsome
diamond. Such a one as is worth [symbol for pounds]300 or
[symbol for pounds]400 now, if there were only four or five in
the world, would fetch twenty, thirty thousand
—what you will. The singer cannot go on
singing in her dotage, as a painter can paint.
The working life of the artist on canvas is
fully twice as long as that of the singer, whose
voice or general health may break down any
moment. and who is exposed to risks in hurry-
ing from one engagement to another, from
which the painter is entirely free. As for me,
I lead a triangular life between London, Paris,
and the United States. All receive me charm-
ingly, and the Amerians always seem delight-
ed to see me again. But the life of a singer 
is made up of hard work, care and self-denial—
so far as I know—the absolute conditions of
achieving and sustaining a high professional 
reputation. One lives; as it were, in a glass
case."—Ex.


With a tender remembrance of that mag-
nificent women Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colo-
rado Springs, we record her demise. Mrs. 
Jackson died on the 12 of August in San
Francisco where she went for the benefit of
her health sometime previous. Mrs. Jackson
wrote over the signature of H. H. and is wide-
ly known as a journalist of rare merit. Her
last book is entitled "Ramona" and has been
spoken of by critics and reviewers as the best
novel by an American woman. Mrs. Jack-
son was a New England woman and her father
was one of the founders of Amhurst college,
Mass. During her two visits in this city we
had many interesting conversations, and she
expressed herself always as intensely interested
in all religions, especially anything new or
original and when it most concerned women.
She was one of the peculiarly rare women 
once whom having met, one can never for-
get.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Emmeline B. Wells.	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room No.4, upstairs, Hooper & Eldrege
Block, Main Street, a few doors south of Z.C.M.I. Business
hours from 10a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1885.


[Column 1]
	﻿THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	The terrible events transpiring from time to
time in the world are enough to harrow up the
souls of all those who are at all sensitive to suf-
fering and one who reflects can scarcely help
asking the question, what will the next denoue-
ment be. Those who are familiar with the Scrip-
tures and especially with the prophecies can
scarcely avoid recognizing the fulfillment of the
judgments of the Lord in the dreadful calamities
and casualitles which the records of the times are
showing. The recital of the horrors with which
the newspapers and journals abound can scarcely
be read without emotion. Destruction and death
come swooping down upon a city,a village a steam-
er an island or individuals without the least warn-
ing. Not only are the elements at seeming war
but the inhabitants of the earth “have sought out
many devices." Skill and cunning are combined
to produce and invent the means of destruction of
life and prosperity. Not only this but class dis-
tinctions and the hatred that springs up in conse-
quence of these, finds expression in various
ways sometimes in open outbreaks or more often
in secret societies and organizations where plans
are thoroughly matured and negotiations entered
into, that are demoralizing to the community and
will result in the undermining of its best interests,
and which there is every reason to fear from
hints and threats and palpable indications will
ultimately overturn society at large, striking at the
very foundations of civilization itself.
	The contemplation of these things furnishes
many lessons,especially to the prophetic mind of
a true Latter-day Saint, and although the subject
is an awe-inspiring and appalling one, yet when
these things are received as tokens of the
Messiah’s second coming and preparatory of the
reign of peace on the earth, one feels that humili-
ty, meekness and obedience to the commandments
of God is the sure path of safety and deliverance.
There is no trusting in the power and pride of
nations or of kingdoms, for all will be broken in
pieces according as the Prophet Daniel has said,
and the God of heaven will set up His Kingdom
never to be thrown down.
	Already the seeds of dissension and disunion
have been sown and are springing up in this gov-
ernment, which every loyal Ammerican citizen
has felt so much pride in, and such intense love
for; and the very laws that have been enacted to
prevent the free exercise of religious liberty and to
disfranchise men and women innocent of any
crime, and furthermore to harass, distress and im-
prison them, inflicting pains and penalties for the
practical acceptance of a law of God, a law that
He has at different times in past ages,as well as
in the present positively commanded His people
to observe, this has opened such a yawning
chasm in the before almost perfect structure, that
all nations have admired even from afar, that not
many years hence unless strong measures are
immediately taken to repair or bridge over this
great opening that has been made in the very

[Column 2]
foundations of liberty, it will be irreparable, and
not only Latter-day Saints who have been made
the first immediate sufferers, but the fifty-five
millions of people that are continually held up
as a warning to this handful of people, will feel it,
and sorrow and misery will ensue such as one
can scarcely endure even the thought of.
	And why are these fifty-five millions of people
so indignant, so disgraced to use the familiar
language of the newspapers of the day, because
a few people away out here in Utah have adopt-
ed the patriarchal form of marriage. Has it ever
hurt them, or in any way infringed upon a right of
theirs, social, political or religious? If it has
there is always the Law and the Courts to go to
 for justice. But it has not, and even those who
have come here and established themselves,
planted homes and built up churches of the vari-
ous denominations, cannot say truthfully that in
any way they have been intruded upon, or injured
because of the practice of a plurality of wives.
That wives are contented, that children are edu-
cated and provided for, that homes are respecta-
ble, that all things are done decently and in order
and no law of propriety infringed upon we make
bold to assert. That fathers and mothers who
have obeyed this principle and honored it have
been peculiarly and wonderfully blest, we most
solmnly affirm; that those who have fought against
it and have been unwilling to accept this purer
and higher law given for the advancement of the
human family in the scale of progression have
not attained to the same intelligence and excel-
lence that those have, who have obeyed this princi-
ple and entered into these sacred covenants. The
Gentiles themselves who live in Utah know that
the men that have been disfranchised are honora-
ble, upright men; men of unimpeachable integrity,
and they know too that it is not because they do
not honor virtue and encourage purity of life, that
men are arraigned before these courts and
condemned by juries who are in no sense of the
word their peers. Is this justice? Is there even a
semblance of honesty in it leaving honor out of
the question? Will prison bars or cells or penalties
or punishments of any kind destroy a vital princi-
ple? No never! Punishments may be so severe
as to torture, wear out and kill, but the principle
still exists and eventually truth will triumph over
error how ever fiercely the battle may rage be-
tween the two opposing powers.
	Those who live longest will see in the finale of
the present controversy and persecution now rag-
ing, ostensibly in consequence of the practise of a
principle that was taught and practised by holy
men of old, that it will yet appear that office seek-
ing, political place and power and Mammon were
the real motives that caused the raid against the
"Mormons." Let the deceiver and hypocrite hide
their wicked deeds under cover of love of virtue
and loyalty to government, time will yet disclose
their baseness and treachery and all those who
have fought against Zion will be brought to naught,
and the Kingdom of God will flourish and spread
abroad and all nations will see the glory thereof.


[Column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Saturday September 19th the conference of
the Primary Association of this Stake of Zion
will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, com-
mencing at 10 a. m. At 2 p. m. the conference of
Y. L. M. I. A. will be held at the same place.
Written reports for each of these meetings are
expected from each Association of the Stake.
	The Relief Society conference of this Stake
will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms
on Friday, September 18th commencing at 10 a.
m. and at 2 p. m. It will be the time for written
reports and no branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake should fail to send in the report on
time. It is very desirable also that there should
be a good attendance of the members and that

[Column 2]
there shonld be representatives from each branch 
to receive whatever instruction or counsel may be
given.
	ON the 8th of August a small party of ladies
gathered at the residence of Dr. R. B. Pratt to
celebrate the aniversary of that lady’s birth. It
was wholly unexpected and the Dr. was out of
town. She arrived home, however, about 8 o’clock
and found her parlor well filled, and hearty con-
gratulations were first in order, then followed a
delicious repast of sandwiches, cakes; fruits and
ice-cream. Drs. E. S. Barney and E. R. Shipp
doing the honors of the table. The party then
returned to the parlor where speeches were made
congratulatory and friendly by sisters Phebe
Woodruff, H. T. King, M. N. Hyde, S. M. Kim-
ball, E. S. Taylor, E. Bunnell, Dr. E. S. Barney,
Mary Burnham E. B. Wells, E. R. Shipp, M. D.
Jane White. M. C. Shipp, M. D. and one or two
others. Sister M. I Horne closed the remarks.
During the evening Dr. Pratt expressed herself
grateful for the honor bestowed upon her in the
assembling of the sisters and in the many en-
couraging remarks addressed to her, and hoped to
be ever worthy of such friendship and friends.
	IN this issue of the EXPONENT will be seen the
announcement that Dr. R. B. Pratt wlil commence
another class in midwifery September 21st. Dr.
Pratt has been giving this kind of instruction for
several years and her students are now pursuing
their vocation in various places in the territory.
She has had excellent success in this direction,
and scarcely needs a word of recommendation
though she is deserving of praise, for her energy
and perseverance in following her profession,
never tiring of her work, always cheerful and
self-possessed. Such women are a blessing to the
community and Salt Lake City can boast quite a
number of'these lady physicians. Dr. Pratt ad-
vertises she will instruct her class in the galvanic
battery which is becoming quite a power in the
sick room. She will also assist them in the pur-
chase of batteries for their own use in practice
whereby they can obtain them cheaper than they
could otherwise. This will be quite an advan-
tage to those who desire to combine this knowl-
edge with the study of obstetrics.
	WE wish to call the attention of our readers to
the advertisement of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp in this
issue of the paper. Circumstances hindered the
lady from commencing her class in obstetrics as
previously announced. The Doctor graduated
from the Women’s Medical College in Phila-
delphia in the spring of 1882 and since that time
has devoted herself to practice in her profession
and to lecturing on subjects pertaining to the
study of medicine. She has traveled extensively in
the territory and is widely and favorably known.
The Doctor is a thorough and competent teacherand
is possessed of excellent natural ability sim-
plifies her subjects so that no one can mistake her
meaning. As a lecturer she has been very highly
spoken of having a good voice and pleasing man-
ner and a faculty of concentrating her ideas so as
to make her points clear and concise. There is
much need of efficient and intelligent help in this
field of labor and it is a branch of the profession
that will always find employment. The sisters in
the various settlements in the several Stakes of
Zion should use their utmost influence to send
students to receive this class of instruction; that
there need be no lack of thorough preparation on
the part of those who officiate as practitioners.
Young women should be encouraged to study this
important branch of medical science and become
intimately acquainted with the human organism,
that they may be better prepared to fill the high
and holy mission assigned to them on earth that
of  the wife and mother.	
	Dr. Maggie C Shipp has labored under great
disadvantages and has had to practise severe les-
sons of self denial in order to obtain the knowl-


edge of her profession and she is desirous of
using her best efforts to impart correct ideas to
others, and we sincerely hope she will meet with
liberal patronage from the Saints.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

PERSECUTED FOR RIGHTEOUSNESS
SAKE.

	Yes we are persecuted for daring to dissent
from established man-made laws and the opinions
of the general mass of mankind. When es-
tablished rule contaminates and makes the lives
of its votaries corrupt it is high time to awake
to a sense of the condition of society and set our
faces like flint against prevailing evil that will
lead the soul down to dissolution and death.
Every Latter-day Saint that loves virtue and moral
rectitude has stepped out of the broad high-way
into the narrow path that leads unto eternal life,
and so wide apart are these two ways they can
never blend together. The one leads to destruc-
tion and dissolution, while the other is progress-
ive, onward and upward. The higher grade that
leads to that immortal shore, where the ship of
Zion anchors safely. If we can count the num-
ber of sands upon the sea shore, or when we 
raise our eyes and gaze into the starry sky and be-
hold with wonder and amazement its organized
magnitude; we are lost in thought and exclaim,
neither can we conceive nor number the multitude
of beings that will increase worlds without end,
sons and daughters of these noble men and
women who have dared to differ in their religious
convictions, who have entered into the Patriarchal
order of marriage that reaches within the vail,
like an anchor to the soul, sure and steadfast.
They have made an eternal covenant with their
God. To continue the lives as did the Patriarchs
of old. To perpetuate a righteous seed that can-
not be numbered for multitude, whose souls are
lit up with fire of revelation. The true
sons and daughters of God, born un-
der the new and everlasting cove-
nant of God, the only covenant that He acknowl-
edges. This law of marriage binds stronger than
death. The ceremony is performed for time and
all eternity, and binds the husband to his wives in
the resurrection and the children to their parents.
This is the binding law spoken of in Malachi
last chapter. To bind the hearts of the parents
to their children and the children to the parents.
Moses held this law and married the children of
Israel by it and there were very strict statutes and
judgments pertaining to this higher law of mar-
riage. They were not to mingle with any other
people, that God did not acknowledge, they (the
Priests) were forbidden to marry a divorced woman.
The husband and wife should be of the same
faith and blood of their progenitors, and abstain
from all social evils.
	Time is fleeting and the Lord will cut His work
short in righteousness.
	Mat. 3rd chap, "Behold I will send my mesenger
and he shall prepare the way before me; and the
Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come, to His
Temple even the messenger of the covenant
we delight in, He shall come saith the Lord of
hosts."
	Here are two individuals spoken of. The Lord
will come to His temple, and the messenger that
prepared the way before the Lord, a messenger of
the covenant.
	4th verse: "Then shall the offering of Judah
and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord as in the
days of old, and as in former years. The Savior
has identified His name with polygamists, calls
himself the offspring of David, and says of him-
self, "Behold, I come quickly, etc," calls himself,
"the Lord God of the holy prophets." Nathan
the prophet was one of these.
	An overwhelming revolution is on the verge of
time before our eyes. Divine prophecy must have
a fulfillment. Nearly 2000 years has passed away

[Column 2]

since the great change took place in the Jewish
nation. They were a powerful majority in state
and religion and thought the minority could not
cope with them, the poor, meek, simple Gentiles,
not worthy to enter their sanctums of worship, or
eat with them at table. But John the Baptist came
crying from the wilderness, "Repent ye, for the
Kingdom of God is at hand." And the meek and
lowly Jesus made himself the friend of these out-
cast Gentiles, whom the Jews called sinners which
was a great offence to those learned Rabbis,
and a Savior born of poor parentage was an in-
sult to their dignity. Therefore they spurned
offers of salvation at the hands of mercy, and
their pride and rebellion laid them low in power.
They fought against a kind and merciful God,
killed His prophets that were sent unto them to
warn them of coming judgments and crucified
God's only son. By doing this they thought to
have full power and control over their own des-
tiny. But their overthrow and downfall was
sure and certain, and the poor despised Gentiles
rose to eminence upon their downfall, nationally
and religiously. Let us draw aside the vail and
look with comparative eyes at causes and effects
that are transpiring on the stage of present events.
Is not the world ripe in iniquity and do not the
powers that be, defy God's right to set up His
Kingdom on the earth? Which He will do in the
same plain and simple manner as He did two
thousand years ago, as predicted by Daniel.
	The poor persecuted, "ignorant, criminal" out-
lawed Latter-day Saint people are just foolish and
simple-minded enough to believe that God will set
up His Kingdom on the earth to be a rule over all
others, and that He has sent His messenger of
the covenant to prepare the way of the coming
of the Lord Jesus, who will reign as King of kings
and Lord of lords, who will put all enemies under
His feet. And those who oppose these things,
when He shall come, will call for the rocks and
mountains to fall upon them to hide them from
His presence. Joseph Smith was a true prophet
of God. The Gospel was revealed to him, as the
Savior and the disciples preached it two thousand
years ago; and the writer of this, it was made
known to her several years before she knew such
a church or people existed. That the true church
and the same gospel that the Apostles preached
would be again, and I promised I would receive 
it if I had to suffer like unto the Saints in the
apostolic age. The first sermon I heard an Elder
of this Church preach, I was convinced it was the
Bible doctrine. I was 22 years of age, lived at
the time at South Norwalk, Conn. The subject
was, the Kingdom of God is like a perfect
structure, take away any of its parts and the
building would fall, so likewise take away from
the Kingdom of God, Apostles Prophets and the
gifts of the Spirit, it becomes disorganized at once
and has no power to act. The world stumbles
at our unity of faith. We are all baptised into
one body, we see eye to eye by the same spirit,
we believe in one faith, one baptism and one Lord
overall. One of our Church members may be in
India, another in New York, they both believe the
Gospel plan alike and need correspond. The
spirit that we receive after baptism leads us into
all truth.
	August 12.	M. A. PRATT.


﻿R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	The ladies regular semi-montly meeting was
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms Saturday
August 22nd, Mrs E. B. Wells presiding. Sing-
ing, "Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation"
etc. Prayer by Mrs. Margaret Steele. Continued
by singing "When the voice of friendship’s heard."
Minutes of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 20th, 17th,19th
and 1st and P. A. of the 5th and 21st Wards,were
then read.


﻿Mrs. E. B. Wells made some remarks upon
general subjects and referred especially to self-
control or the government of one's own temper
and passions. Thought it was a thing we should
all observe and seek to improve in and that it
would give us greater influence as mothers in our
own homes. Made other good suggestions.
	Mrs. Julia Howe addressed the meeting for a
short time and alluded also to the necessity of
self-control, spoke of her feelings in regard to
those who are suffering for the sake of principle,
her prayers and intercessions in their behalf and
made other good remarks.
	Mrs. H. T. King said she felt we were pass-
ing under a cloud, but it had a silver lining. Said
she could not remember the time when she did
not pray and had felt the benefit of prayer all her
life, spoke upon self and family government and
order in the home and advanced some excellent
ideas.
	Mrs. Mary Irvine said she felt she could not
give utterance to the feeeings of her heart, but
she came with the intention of mingling her voice
with the voices of her sisters, but did not expect
to speak from the stand. Spoke of her desire to
obtain perfect control of herself, thought she was
improving some, alluded to those men and women
who betray their brethren and sisters and the
horror she felt of such a course, exhorted all to
faithfulness, and advised those present who felt
inpressed to do so, to rise up and speak.
	Mrs. Wells then requested the sisters in the
congregation to occupy the remainder of the time
in speaking and bearing testimony.
	Testimonies were then borne by Sisters Mary
Brown, Mary Silver, Jane James. The congrega-
tion sung the first and last verse of the hymn "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning." Testimonies
were afterwards borne by Sisters M. G. Chase,
C. Fawcett, Ann Richards, Lois Hook, Mary
Davis and others.
	Mrs. Wells made some closing remarks and
Mrs. Ellen Greeves made timely remarks and
bore a very strong and powerful testimony. Meet-
ing was then adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
"Mid Scenes of confusion and creature com-
plaints," and benediction by Dr. E. R. Shipp.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	"Monday the 14th,	*	*	the pioneers
of the 2nd division met this morning at the
Council House to arrange themselves in com-
panies of tens, etc."
	Tuesday the 16th, fair weather.	*	*
Went by tnvitation with a number of the
band, to see a noted flute-player, McCay by
name, who professes to be a Choctaw Indian.
He performed on the flute-saucepan-etc.
	On the evening of the the 17th he men-
tions attending a meeting of the band, at
James Clayton's to make some arrangements
about a concert to be held at the Council
House, which came off the next evening. He
says, "I attended only a short time
not feeling well, afflicted with a se-
vere cold on my lungs, also in my
head. Brother Wm. Clayton did not attend,
in consequence of illness. He makes mention
of the scurvy which was so sorely afflicting the
Saints, many cases having proved fatal.
	"Sunday the 21st.	*	*	a large
number assembled at the sound of a bell, to
hear President Young give instructions, which
were good." Brother Kimball called his pri-
vate family together this evening and blessed
them to the number of thirty-six. My wife
and I did not attend, not feelin well,"
	A "Patriarchal Epistle," which father had
prepared, was read. It contained advice to


his eldest son, Wm., an adopted son,
Daniel Davis, concerning the bringing up of
the different families, and children that were
under his charge. The following were among
the designs, which he wished them to carry
out after he was gone.
	"In the first place, I want you should fit
out a wagon in the first order for your mother,
and see that she is supplied with everything
for her comfort, so that she may live in a re-
tired way, and take every method to throw off
every burden from her shoulders, and take it
upon yourselves, or cast it equally upon others
with yourselves.
	Also that Sarah Noon shall have a waggon by
herself and family. Also Sarah Whitney with
her family; and also Brother Howard Egan's
family; also James Smithies with his family.
And be particular that these families have a
bag of flour and, a bag of meal, put into
their own waggons; also meat and such articles
as are necessary for their convenience, that
they may not have reason to complain, or bor-
row of, or trouble each other. And when
their bags and stores are empty see that they
are filled. Be very particular to retain a
prayerful, meek and quiet spirit, that you can
have comforting words for your mother, sisters
and friends who are with you while attending
to their wants and necessities, that you may
prove a blessing to them, and a comfort and
consolation in very deed, and they will rise up
and bless you, and your hearts will rejoice, and
you will always be glad, and your Father in
heaven, and on earth will bless you, and it
will be a source of rejoicing to you forever,and
your sons and daughters in their turn, will
arise and bless and comfort you in like man-
ner.
	The same day my husband wrote, "my wife's
health quite poor yet, she is afflicted at present
with a severe cough,having taken a hard cold."
	On the 29th he mentions a number of the
brethren, who were going to remian behind, 
starting for the "Old Fort," ten miles above
there, for the purpose of putting in a crop,
and also a number of families, who were pre-
paring to remove to that place. The mill
commenced some time ago, is now about finished,
so that they are about ready to grind wheat,
corn, etc- He speaks of the boys "flying round"
and making ready to start for the Rocky
Mountains—says Brother Kimball has six
waggons fitted out ready loaded to start.
	Sunday, April the 4th, he mentions the call-
ing together of a portion of his father's and
my father's families—eleven persons in all—to
a meeting for prayer, and also for instruction
from father and Bishop Whitney. This was
held in the room occupied by my husband's
sister, Sarah Ann, next door to mine, and be-
ing now convalescent I was able to attend.
	My father recommended Bishop Whitney
to his family "as a worthy, good and exemplary
man," to counsel them in his absence, and
said there was "no person living in the world"
in whom he placed more confidence than he 
did in Brother Whitney, and there was no
person who would have so much influence in
his (father's) family in his absence. Many
things were said and much good instruction
given by both fathers, when the meeting was 
adjourned till evening.
	Agreeable to adjournment they met again in
the evening and conversed till about 9 o'clock;
when a prayer was offered up, father being
mouth. "Afterwards," Horace wrote, Brother
Kimball and father alternately blessed each
member of his family, and the meeting dis-
smissed about 11 o'clock, after having enjoyed
one of the happiest times (and apparently the
briefest) period in my existence."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.

	First I would say that of all people on
earth we are the most blest, and should be the


most happy. It is true we are deprived of
many privileges, as legal citizens that we should
enjoy. We are hated by all the world, op-
pressed, even imprisoned, our rights taken
from us, yet we know it is the work of the
Lord and He will suffer our enemies to oppress
us until we become the people he desires us to
be. Then we must acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in it, and know that it is for our good.
How necessary it is that we should become a
better people, and to do this, we must obey all
His commandments do everything that is re-
quired of us by those in authority, in righteous-
ness, overcome our selfish nature, do to others
as we would have them do unto us, so that we
may claim His blessings. Now, I wish to say
a few words in regard to the Relief Society.
There seems to be various opinions as to what
the duties are and what it is intended
for. Now, I do not pretend to say that I know,
but I know what I think. Some say this
society never was intended for anything but to
work and make means to relieve the poor, and
say I don't think it is women's business to hold
meetings and preach. These meetings are so
dull, I can't be interested in them. Others
will say, I can't see any good the Relief
Society does anyhow, and I don't like to go to
the meetings I am afraid I will have some-
thing to do. Now, my sisters, I hope there is
none in our little place that have such a spirit
as this in our society, if there is, I would ask
them whose duty it is to make the society pros-
per and make our meetings lively and interest-
ing, is it the President's? if you think so you
are deceiving yourself, for she in her own
strength and weakness is not able to do it. She
must have the faith and prayers and united
efforts of her sisters and strength and wisdom
from God. There are none that have never
held this position that can tell how embarrass-
ing it is, especially when one sees that some
are inclined to pull back, Now I hope that
none of my sisters feel like this. Now I will
tell you what I think about our Relief Society.
I think they hold the same relation in the
Church that a woman does to her husband.
The woman is the help-mate for the man and
he is not perfect without her, and the
Prophet Joseph said the Church was not com-
plete without the Relief Society, so it is the
woman's duty to help her husband in all
things temporal, religious, political, or any-
thing that is for his interest, is for hers also.
He is the father, she is the mother and his
equal, but not his superior. The Bishop is
the father of the people, so the Society is the
mother and it has its duties to look after the
interest of the ward as a mother looks after
her children. Teach them good principles,
correct wrongs, relieve distress, set a good ex-
ample and work for the interest of the ward.
Women are expected to help build up the
Kingdom as well as the men and if the Lord
has designed that this should be part of the
work we are to do, let us take hold in good
faith not doubting but what we will accom-
plish some good, I do think that we are
favored and blest with privileges that we shonld
appreciate and furthermore when we meet in
our working meetings we are engaged in God's
work and should observe as good order as
though we had met for worship.	*	*
		M. B.
	Erastus, Arizona.


[Column 1]

[From the Boston Commonwealth, Saturday, August
1st, 1885.]

ANOTHER LOOK AT THE MORMON
PROBLEM.

EDITOR OF THE BOSTON COMMONWEALTH:
	A landscape varies in beauty and interest
according as it is seen from one or another
point of view. Not unlikely the Mormon
question may also be viewed under a better
light than that under which it appeared in the

[Column 2]

Commonwealth of July 18th. Will you kindly
permit a long-time subscriber to attempt so to
present it?
	Now, keeping in mind that persecutions on
account of religious opinions and practices
were very prevalent in the old countries, from
which emigrated the settlers of what now form
the United States and that to prevent the
persecution of any religious sect in the United
States, it was expressly declared in the politi-
cal constitution of the United States, that
"Congress shall make no law respecting an es-
tablishment of religion, or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof," then the Mormon prob-
lem is, whether Mormons in the United States
are,equally with other religious sects, entitled
to protection in the enjoyment and exercise of
their religious faith and practice, including the
practice or plural or polygamic marriage.
	By Christians, marriage is regarded to
be a religious ordinance. By Roman
Catholics and also by Mormons, it is held to
be a sacrament. The Roman Catholic church,
in obedience to its interpretation of the Bible,
and its other religious authorities, approve
celibacy, but permit monogamic marriage, and
hold it as the only legal and true marriage.
For ages it has endeavored, through terrific
maledictions, and by awful pains and penalties,
to prevent polygamic marriage. On the other
hand, Mormons, under the sanction
of the same Bible, and in obedience to
it and their other religious authorities,
discountenance celibacy, believe both mono-
gamic and polygamic marriage to be approved
of by God, and practice either, according as
their inclination and circumstances may per-
mit. By Shakers celibacy is approved and
practiced. and all marriage is religiously
avoided. In all these sects the conjugal re-
lation, be it of any kind, whether entered into
or avoided, partakes of a religious character,
and the free exercise of it as a religious or-
dinance by each and every sect of religionists
is, as many honest. sound thinkers believe,
equally entitled to protection against inter-
ference and persecution. Wise and politic
was the Roman proconsul Gallio, when he
told Paul's persecutors that as to their ques-
tions and the interpretations of their religious
law, to look to it themselves and not to trouble
him with them, and so drove them from the
judgement-seat.—Acts xviii, 18. Would that
Congress had been equally judicious in its
treatment of the Mormon question! Every
religious persecution, whether heathen or
Christian, is impolitic and wrong, and is re-
membered to the shame of the persecutors.
The persecution of the witches, supported as
it was by the honorables and reverends of the
day, is now reckoned as a sorry blot on the
fair fame of Massachusetts. The present per-
secution of the Mormons in a so-called land of
liberty, and under a political constitution ex-
pressly providing for religious toleration,
will be recorded in history as a lamentable out-
break of bigotry and intolerance, as a breach
by the government of its solemnly blighted
faith for religious liberty, and a wicked and
cruel violation of the natural marital rights of
men and women.
	The Commonwealth writer insists that "the
laws of order and decency must be enforced in
Utah." In the opinion of many competent
observers (whose testimony there is not here
space for) there was far more genuine order
and decency in Utah, prior to the enactment
of the Edmunds statute, and the advent there
of government officials and their servitors,
than there has since been. The Mormons were
orderly and peaceful, and even now, though
suffering from bitter oppression, are yet orderly
and peaceful. "Order reigns in Warsaw,"
said the Czar; but despotism, whether in Ru-
sia or the United States, is not order; it is con-
centrated disorder, it is mental dynamite, and,
sooner or later, will explode, spreading misery


[Column 1]

and destruction in its blast. As for the laws
of decency—decencies are matters of taste,
custom and habit, and vary with time and
places. A Turkish lady is shocked to be seen
by a strange man without a covering to her
face, and sometimes will veil it with her only
petticoat. A well bred African lady blushes
to be seen for the first time in clothes. Why
should the Commonwealth writer's notion of
decency be enforced upon "Mormons" instead
of their notions being enforced upon him? In-
decency is the fruit of ignorance; it is prolific
in vicious minds. It does not exist in virtu-
ous souls. Pharisees and hypocrites everywhere
see much of it, unconscious all the while, that
it is simply the reflex action of their own in-
ward thoughts.
	The Commonwealth writer emphasizes that
it "is clear" that "polygamy is a sin against
the law of nature and the law of society,
against man and against woman." If it be
thus so clear, it is wondrous strange that many
wise and good men who have made it a matter
of special observation did not so see it. No-
where in the Bible is there any condemnation
of it. On the contrary, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
Moses, the psalmists and prophets, practiced
polygamy. Said Jesus: "Whosoever shall put
away his wife and marry another, commiteth
adultery against her. The sin is not in marry-
ing another, but in putting away the other wife,
"The Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he
hateth putting away."—Malachi 2, 16.
	So far from being clear to Plate that poly-
gamy was wrong, he suggested that in a per-
fect republic it would be of great advantage
to all concerned that wives and children
should be in common. Socrates, Theodoret,
St. Ambrose, St. Chrysostom, St. Augustin,
Bolingbroke, Luthur, Melancthon, and other
philosophers, churchmen and statesmen, after
careful consideration, have concluded that
polygamy was not forbidden, neither by the
law of nature, nor by the word of God, and
therefore is not sinful.
	All this and much more valuable learning
on the subject may be found in Rev. Dr. Mar-
tin Madan's "Thelyphthora," published in 1781,
in London, by a brother of the Bishop of
Bristol and Peterborough. Dr. Madan there
seeks to prove that polygamy is a divine law
of marriage, and that the dissoluteness so
prevalent in the cities of Christendom (some
revelations of which have recently been made
through the columns of the Pall Mall Gazette)
are the necessary and certain outgrowth of
enforced exclusive monogamic marriage. A
copy of Dr- Madan's book is in the Boston
Public Library. Moreover, about ten years
ago, there was published in Boston a second
edition of "The History and Philosophy of
Marriage, or Polygamy and monogamy com-
pared by a Christian Philanthropist." The
author was a Baptist minister, who went to
India, and there, having lived for many years,
he returned, he says, "to my native land an
older, and, I hope, a wiser man," He re-
marks that the prejudices of modern Christians
to polygamy "are neither natural nor inveter-
ate, but that they have been induced by the
corrupted Christianity of the mediæval priest-
hood, and that they will be removed when
Christian people become better informed."
Rev. David O. Allen, missionary of the Ameri-
can Board of Missions for twenty-five years in
India, in his "India Ancient and Modern," a
copy of which was given to the Boston Public
Library by Theodore Parker, says (page 604):
Polygamy is not wrong as it exists among Jews.
Mohammedans and Hindoos, and that the con-
tinuance of the relations after they become
Christian cannot be morally wrong- The Cal.
cutta Missionary Conference of missionaries
of several sects, exclusive of Roman Catholic,
adopted unanimously the same conclusion.
	But let this article, now almost too long for
your columns, close with a single remark from

[Column 2]

John Selden's "Table Talk" He was a mem-
ber of the Westminster Association for Di-
vines for settling the doctrine, liturgy and
government of the Church of England, of
stupendous learning in all kinds, and in all
languages, and of whose "Table Talk", Coler-
idge said, there is more weighty bullion sense
in it, than he ever found in the same number
of pages in any uninspired writer. Selden's
remarks is that "Marriage is nothing but a
civil contract." "Of all actions of a man's life,
his marriage does least concern other people.
Yet of all actions of our life, 'tis most meddled
with by other people."
	Now, Mr. Editor, please allow me to express
the wish of many good citizens, that the exist-
ing persecutions of the Mormons may speedily
and completely cease.
		A. E. G.
	Hyde Park, Mass., July 22, 1885.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT.

EMERY STAKE.

	Minutes of the 5th semi-annual conference
of the Relief Society of Emery Stake held at
Castle Dale August 7th 1885. Prest. Anna U.
Larson presiding. Singing, prayer by Prest.
C. G. Larsen. Singing, and minutes of last
conference read and approved, also statistical
and financial reports for the last half year.
President Anna U. Larsen addressed the
conference, was pleased to hear the reports for
the last six months, thought it showed the
sisters to be alive to their duties, said the poor
should be remembered, if any in our midst.
Spoke of the persecutions we are passing
through at this time and said, it behooves us
to live humble and prayerful that we may be
faithful to the end. The presidents were all
present except the one from Moab. They gave
verbal reports showing that the sisters were
united in whatever they undertook to do
	Meeting was then adjourned till half past
1 o'clock.  Singing. Benediction by Bishop H.
Olsen.

	Afternoon meeting: Opened with singing,
prayer by Bro. E. Curtis. Singing.
	Sister Larsen spoke for a short time, was
thankful she had a testimony to bear to the
truth of this work; spoke of the persecutions
of the Saints. 
	Brother Peter Johnson, Sister Ann Pul-
sipher Sister A. Fulmer, also Sister Stena
Olsen and Sister Curtis spoke and bore faith-
ful testimonies.
	President C. G. Larsen was pleased to hear
the reports read, thought it very commendable
to the sisters, was glad they had a few hundred
bushels of grain stored up. Spoke of home-
manufacture, said some of our brethren are
cast into prison but that is just a commence-
ment of the trials, and it is not alone those
who practice the law of celestial marriage, but
all claiming to be Latter-day Saints will be
tested in a similar manner.
	Bishop H. Olsen was highly pleased to see
the improvement the sisters had made and en-
couraged them to faithfulness.
	President Anna U. Larsen made closing
remarks; was pleased to see part of the carpet
ready, made by the sisters of this Stake, for
Manti Temple. Thanked all the sisters for
donating so freely. Sister Clara C. R. Kofford
was then sustained as Assistant Stake Secretary
for the R. S. of Emery Stake.
	Conference adjourned till the first Friday in
Feb. 1886, to be held at Huntington. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bishop J Robertson.
	ANALIZA SEELY, Stake Sec.


Madame Patti is taking a rest at her castle
in Wales and intends remaining there until
November.


AN	ADDRESS.

DELIVERED AT PANGUITCH ON THE 24TH OF
	JULY.

	BY MRS. SARAH P. CROSBY.
		
	Gentlemen and ladies:  I appear before you
on this interesting occasion, in behalf of the 
mothers of Israel and I am thankful to my
Heavenly Father for the privilege of being
able to represent such good and pure and noble
minded women as the women of Utah and the
mothers in Israel, and that we are permitted in
peace to celebrate this memorable day, the 37th
anniversary of the arrival of the Pioneers into
Salt Lake Valley, where the Saints throught
they were free from oppression and where they
could "worship God according to the dictates
of their own consciences."
	After being driven from the States of
Misouri and Illinois, their husbands and 
fathers having been torn from their families
imprisoned and some even murdered by a 
ruthless mob, while innocent women and child-
ren had been left without a protector, and
many had suffered death from hunger and
exposure and all for the knowledge they had of
God and the truthfulness of His work, and the
ready willingness to obey his laws, and while
fleeing as fugitives from their beloved country 
and under the most trying circumstances an
order was given by Colonel S. F. Kearney of
the U. S. Army, then commanding the army
of the West and issued by Capt. James Allen
calling for five hundred of our best men who
would accept the service for twelve months, 
who would be willing to serve their country for
that period in the war with Mexico, which
order was complied with, leaving women and
children on the prairie without homes or
shelter, my mother and her children being
among the number.

	"What were their families to do,"
	Their children wives and mothers too,
	When fathers, husbands, sons were gone?
	Mothers drove teams, and camps moved on. 

	But passing over these scenes and encounter-
ing the hardships of a long and tedious jour-
ney of over a thousand miles on a trackless
wilderness brought us to the valley of Great
Salt Lake then a barren desert unihabita-
ble except to the wolf, owl and roaming 
Indian.
	But nothing daunted these same brave
women went to work with a will, in connection
with their husbands to make homes in the
desert and make it blossom as the rose, with
all the hardships of a frontier life, they can
now point with pride to their beautiful homes
in the once desert valleys, also their numerous
and beautiful children being reared in the
fear and admonition of the Lord. 
	But the enemy that drove them from their
homes in the States of Misouri and Illinois
is again upon them with intent to mob them
of their peaceable happy homes and their
liberties. 
	Delicate women have been made to suffer
the most exquisite torture of mind, some have 
been incarcerated in prison, and all for the
sake of our religious convictions, but do we
feel to bemoan our fate?  Not at all!  but we
will contend legally for our rights trusting in
God and that we may ever prove true to our re-
ligion, to our God and to our friends, is the
humble prayer of your sister.


The telegrams on the 25th of August announced
a horrible calamity in Canton, China, by a flood
which destroyed at once ten thousand lives,
The details are horrifying and the consequences
which will follow the loss of property and
crops will no doubt involve such distress and
suffering as one shrinks from thinking about.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES

	Died in Santaquin, August 5th 1885. Joseph Abram,
son of Andrew and Ann Walwork. Aged 11 years, 1
month and ten days. He was a faithful member of the
Primary Association always ready to respond to every call.
We will miss him from our society, though we feel to say
thy will be done O Lord.
	Resolved that we, the officers and members of the as-
sociation, do sympathize with Brother Walwork and family,
in the loss of their beloved son and brother,
	Resolved that we place this on our record and present a
copy to the bereaved family, and that one be sent to the
EXPONENT for publication.
				ELIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
				AGNES CLARK,
				ANNIE BROADBENT, Counselors.

	James Hyrum,son of James and Francis A. Goodall,
who departed this life July 13th 1885, aged 8 years, 6
months and 20 days.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas by a decree of an alwise providence one of our
little members of the Primary Association of Santaquin,
has been called from our midst.
	Resolved that in our sorrow we find consolation in the
thought that it is well with him for whom we mourn, though
it is hard to part with our little ones.
	Resolved that we condole with the bereaved parents in
this their great loss and that we place this on our record
and present a copy to the bereaved parents and that one
be sent to the EXPONENT for publication.
		ELIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
		AGNES CLARK,
		ANNIE BROADBENT, Counnselors.

	With loving remembrance, we record the demise on
Sunday July 25th 1885 at the residence of her parents in
Santaquin, Genevie Lovina, daughter of Thomas and
Mary Jane Broadbent, aged 10 years, 1 month and 10
days. Summoned by the angel of death away from the
loving arms of her affectionate parents, brothers and sis-
ters. She was beloved by all who knew her and a bright
intelligent little girl. In the Primary Association she was
always punctual at her meetings.
	Truly of "Such is the Kingdom of Heaven."

		For her sweet face so dear to every eye,
		That knew and loved her in the days gone by;
		With love too strong, for even death to sever,
		That will live on through endless years forever.

	As God in His wisdom has seen fit to call another of
His precious jewels, we, as officers and members of the
Primary Association, unanimously adopt the following
resolutions.
	We sincerely condole with the parents, brothers and
sisters in their heavy bereavement and we tender them
our heartfelt sympathy.
	May her many virtues be emulated by the members of
our association so that her noble example may stimulate
others to a life of virtue and usefulness,
	Resolved that we adopt these resolutions as a token of
respect, that we present a copy to her parents, and pub-
lish the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a
copy on our record.
		FLIZABETH WALL, Prest.,
		AGNES CLARK,
		ANNIE BROADBENT, Counselors


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The cholera still continues to rage unabated
in Spain and the panic and the suffering is
dreadful in the extreme. The scourge has al-
ready reached France where there has been
much fear and many deaths, and a telegram
has been received at washington saying cholera
had broken out in Japan.
	Patents were issued to women inventors
during the week ending Aug. 4, 1885:
	Mary M. Burchfield, Kingston, Ill., Steam
Fruit Dryer.
	Lucinda Fuller, Detroit, Mich., Window-
Sash.
	Caroline M. Hills, Chicago, Ill., Paint-Pot.
	Charlotte A. McGee, Jackson, Mich., Corset,


On the 25th ult a terrible cyclone struck
Charleston S. C. and the damage to crops,
valuable property, shipping etc., is estimated
something over a million dollars. The storm
was very severe at other points doing much
damage to houses, crops, mills etc., Jacksonville
Florida being one of the places which suffered
seriously by it.
	The Queen having signified to the Rev. J.
Baily, the Chairman of the festivities Com-
mittee at Cowes, that she would drive through
the town	*	*	with Prince and Princess
Henry of Battenberg, the townspeople replaced
the decorations which had been erected on the
occasion of the Royal marriage on Thursday
last, and many additional banners and flags
were displayed from every point, from the
floating bridge to the High-street, together
with many beautifully decorated and appropri-
ate mottoes and evergreens. The children of
the Sunday schools of the town, to the number
of two thousand, were assembled in the Mar-
ket-square, and the H (Cowes) Company of
the Isle of Wight Volunteers, with their band,
were also drawn up at the same point. Pre-
cisely at seven o'clock in the evening, the
Queen,, accompanied by the Royal pair, drove
through the High-street in a waggonette
amidst a large and enthusiastic assemblage,
who cheered heartily. The volunteers received
her Majesty with a Royal salute, while the
band played the National Anthem. Her
Majesty repeatedly bowed her acknowledg-
ments of the loyal greeting of the visitors and
townspeople. The Royal party also drove
through Newport last evening, and in anticipa-
tion of the visit the streets were decorated and
crowded with thousands of people, who hearti-
ly greeted her Majesty and the Royal bride
and bridegroom, who repeatedly bowed their
acknowledgements.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Obstetric Class.

Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
WILL COMMENCE HER
Semi-Annual Class, Sept. 21,
In her large and well-appointed Office, In Godbe,
Pitts & Co’s Drug Store.

Lecture at 4 p. m.
Charts, Mannikin and all apparatus for teaching.
As Electricity Is a great adjuvant to the Healing
Art, and possessing one of the best Batteries, lessons on
its applications and use in medicine will be given the
students.

Tuition for Three Months,	$30.00.
Books, (Three)	13.50.

	A number of applications are usually received after
the class has begun; it is earnestly hoped those desiring
to attend will be at the opening.

For Sale at this Office,

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c. “
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,	$1.00	“
	“ Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25	“
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE	
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco.	1.50	“

[Column 2]
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods,Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE.

A CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.

DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP,
WILL COMMENCE HER
Class in Midwifery, SEPT. 23 ’85.

	Every advantage and attention will be given students
to secure their rapid advancement and proficiency in
their studies.

Tuition per Term, 	$10.00.
Books,	13.00.

Office and Residence, 34 Seventh East Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

