VOL. 14		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1885.		No. 12.


[For the EXPONENT.]
		PAST AND PRESENT.
[CAUSED BY AN INTERVIEW AFTER LONG ABSENCE.]

	In a mirror now I see
	I am not what I used to be;
	The Glass your presence holds!
I marvel at the mighty change—
Through what a length of years I range
	To view all it unfolds!

There was a time when just that voice
Would cause each fibre to rejoice
	In my responsive heart,
Would cause my brain to lighten up
As though a consecrated cup
	Its incense would impart,

And cause the Sun himself to shine
With beams that seemed indeed divine
	And Earth a paradise—
And life put on a gayer suit, 
And flowers sprang up, and luscious fruit
	Seemed daily to arise!

There was a charm within that eye
That seemed thy words to magnify,
	And fill my soul with love; 
Yes, with a worship, holy-pure, 
It seemed my spirit to allur
	With incense from above!

No earth-born passion fed the flame
That glittered on the mystic chain
	With an electric light; 
I feel it was a given dream,
That govered as a rainbow beam
	O'er many a stormy night!

And now, this day, 'tis shewn to be
An evanescent dream to me,
	That I no longer need,
I've climbed the hill-I stand above
The needed dream of earthly love-
	It now would but impede;

The glow worm's little light is given,
E'en from the chancery of heaven,
	And for a purpose wise; 
And grateful I will ever be,
The light of love was shed on me;
I feel it was by heaven's decree
	To aid my soul to rise!
			
					PSYCHE.


MORMONISM.
A WOMAN'S VIEW OF THE SUBJECT.

Man the author of our Bible and our Religion,
	the Maker of our Laws and the Supreme
	Arbiter of our Destiny—Considering the
	mess he has made of it, would not a New
	Departure be in Order?

	Everything depends upon the point of view.
Few women will be found who have given
thought to the subject that would not as a
choice of evils, prefer Mormonism. "By their
fruits ye shall know them.” Statistics show
that crime, misery and debauchery among the
Latter-day Saints are reduced to a minimum,
and may well put us to the blush. Where in any
Christian State of our Union is a parallel to
be found.  But, oh, horror! Does a woman en-
dorse polygamy? Not without qualification.
Since men will have plurality of wives, why
not legalize the relation, both in religion and
in law? Have the courage of your convictions;
give all your wives the shelter of your name,
the refuge of your roof. Woman’s interest is

[Column 2, Mormonism, cont.]
best observed by that system, which at least
gives her legal status.
	We are accustomed to refer with pride to
our Christian homes, as the outcome of our
civilization—yet they are only one step re-
moved from the brothel, the saloon, the
gambling-house. Does it never occur to the
male-mind that all these hideous ulcers which
are eating out the heart of society, are directly
tracable to the one great crime against woman
—the edict of both the church and state—that
she should be subject to man?  Might makes
right,the old,old maxim, handed down through
centuries of rapine, and bloodshed! How far
has an enlightened Republic founded on the
principle of personal liberty, progressed in the
century of its existence? As far as woman is
concerned a mere weak reproduction of old-
world system! It is always the woman “that
thou gavest me;” made for man’s use; a play-
thing, a bauble, a convenience (and under all
conditions a necessity), put to any use, to serve
the lord and master’s sovereign will; in theory
a divinity, in practice a slave to his passions
and his lust!
	Just here every “lady” in the land takes
issue with me, but ignore, as it we may, the
fact remains, the poor outcast is indeed our
sister, and every blow at her strikes you and
me as well. The poison has penetrated through
every grade of society, and man, who made an
“outcast” of the one is not apt to shrine the
other as a “divinity.” To his depraved soul
all women are alike.  It is in this degradation
of humanity that every social evil has its birth,
its growth and its assured longevity!  All
religions have been powerless to arrest the ever
increasing momentum of the social evil. The
Christian minister draws the line at the “out-
cast’s” door—who enters here leaves hope be-
hind—for her no help or solace here nor in the
world to come! Yet there was one, whose teach-
ings we profess to follow, that said, “Neither
do I condemn thee, go, and sin no more.”
	Why should the woman be condemned,
while the man goes unscathed? Surely all re-
ligions teach that God is no respecter of per-
sons—then, why should man make laws to
controvert God’s law? Being so much more
able, physically, to take care of himself than
woman, why should all  safeguards of society
be.for him alone? He claims that the woman
must be taken care of, and such is the care he
takes of her. Just now the civilized world
held its breath in horror at the ghastly revela-
tions made in London, one of the great cen-
ters of christianity and civilization. Just one
glance of the awful abyss was accorded—
enough, one should think, to make every man
bow his face to the dust, and then the gay
whirl of society went on as before. The col-
lective wisdom of the masculine mind can find
no remedy—the only crime committed seems
to be in the exposure. Is not the earth His
and the fulness thereof? It was urged against
the man, who now holds the highest position in
the gift of the people, and, as we proudly claim,
on the habitable globe, that he had failed to
“seal his wives unto him,” and with one voice
the response came from every masculine throat,
“We all do it; why make a scapegoat of
one?” 
	From the intimate relations of the sexes
man can never rise higher than the plane to
which he assigns woman; and this fact easily
explains all the complications into which our
civilization has drifted. We started out from 

[Column 3, Mormonism, cont.]
also premises and have naturally reached
false conclusions. It is the old feudal system,
transplanted to our shores, and its blight has
fallen on our religion, our politics and our
whole social structure.
	With woman, as co-laborer, how beautiful
the world might be. The one not inferior and
degraded, the other with no proud sense of
ownership and authority. Both together,
equal in every natural right—as Omnipotence
intended them to be—earth would be better in
the new condition, and marriage religion,
truth, justice and morality something more
than an empty sound.— Chattanooga Daily
Commercial.						T.


﻿KINDNESS.
	Among all the characteristics of life, kind-
ness is one that is most essential. We should
endeavor to be kind to each other, and try our
best to make those with whom we associate
happy. Those who are truly kind and noble
by nature, like the truly modest and pure,
generally think others likewise, whereas the
naturally mean and vulgar are apt to charge
others with being the same.
	We as young people should always be kind
and have due respect for the aged; for we hope
some day to be old ourselves, and then we
would like to be respected.
	Show me a home where kindness exists and
there you will find union and strength. Then
how necessary it is that little seeds of kind-
ness be sown in youth that they may blossom
in old age.
	We may go still farther and see what effect
kindness has on a nation: where it does not
exist you will find hatred and strife. For an
example we have only to look around and see
the thousands who are fighting against Zion.
There is no gem that a lady or gentleman can
wear that will glitter brighter than true re-
gard for others.
					MRS. C. KIRK.


HOME-MADE CHRISTMAS GIFTS.

	AN UMBRELLA-STAND.—Take a piece of
stove-pipe of proper length; cover the outside
with Lincrusta Walton, procurable by the
yard at almost any paper-hanger’s; gild or
bronze this with the liquid prepared for such
purpose. Paint the inside of the pipe a dark
red, and fit in a wooden bottom.
	LETTER RACK.—Select two smooth and
strong wooden butter-plates such as are sup-
plied by your grocer; cut one down for the
pocket; place the edges together and glue a
strip of black muslin over them. Give the
whole two coats of black paint. Paste on
daisies cut from cretonne or, better, paint them
on—if you can; varnish the whole rack inside
and out with white varnish; add hanging rib-
bons to match the daisies.
	CUSHION FOR HAIR-PINS.—To the bottom
of a round box—say a collar-box—about four
inches in diameter, and one and a half high,
glue a piece of pasteboard as a rim. Do not
use the cover. Fill the box with curled hair.
Crochet, from straw-colored Saxony worsted, a
cover to fit snugly over the box and thus form
the crown of the hat; crochet a rolling rim on
this and draw it over the pasteboard. Tie a


ribbon around the crown as a hat-band, with a
bow on one side.
	SCRAP BASKET.—Get or make two paste-
board boxes of the desired height, one of
them two inches smaller in diameter than the
other.  Place one within the other, fastening
the bases together, and join at the top with a
two-inch strip of pasteboard sewed strongly
around the tops. Sew a neat cretonne panel
on each side, with a band of plush at top and
bottom and a plush ball and tassel at each cor-
ner.  Line with silesia to match the plush.
Or, the panels may be of satin with flowers
painted in.
	A PHOTOGRAPH CASE—capable of holding
several dozen cabinet or imperial cards may
be made by folding a piece of plush together
and cutting it two inches larger than the card.
Cut out a piece of wigan for lining, a trifle
smaller, and baste it on the plush; then baste
the plush, and line the edges with satin, hem-
ming this on with very fine stitches.  The
pockets are of plush, one quarter the width of
the case; turn the edges of these and hem them
to the back.  Decorate the pockets with “For-
get-me-nots,” or some other appropriate flower-
	SCRAP BASKET.—Get four bamboo sticks
from some furniture factory, or four rustic
sticks if bamboo is not obtainable; gild the
rustic sticks if these are used.  Purchase a
fancy straw basket and line it with satin.
Make the lambrequin of plush of the color of
the lining; cut the lower edge in squares and
point each square.  Embroider a spray of
flowers in the space between the sticks.  Line
it with satin and attach to each point a tassel
made of crewel.  Fasten the lambrequin
over the inner edge of the basket so as to con-
ceal the top of the lining.  Mount the basket
on the sticks, tacking it on from the inside.
	A CARD RECEIVER.—This may be made by
cutting three pieces of rattan, each nine inches
long, and joining them at the top by tying
them together with strong thread.  Spread two
of them far enough apart at the bottom to
make a well proportioned easel, and attach
the cross-piece as a rest.  Cut the envelope—a
perfect square—from a piece of panama canvas;
bind the edges with narrow brown satin ribbon,
and work some little pattern in the corners
with brown silk; fold and overhand the lower
parts together in to envelop-shape, and fasten
it on the easel.  Ravel out a piece of the can-
vas and tie a bunch of the raveling at the top
and at each foot of the easel with a ribbon
bow.
	CHRISTMAS BANNER.—Over a piece of
heavy brown paper of the size of the proposed
banner, stitch a piece of light sea-green cotton
flannel for the central panel, and very dark
cotton flannel for the bands at bottom and top.
The pendant balls are made with the dark
flannel over round pieces of pasteboard.  Sus-
pend them on gilt cord; a heavier cord, to
match, should be used for hanging the banner.
Sew a piece of natural holly in the central
panel; cut the letters from white paper; glue
white cotton on their faces, and then sow the
letters to the dark bands. Glue or stitch
small pieces of cotton all over the banner to
suggest snow.  Larger pieces should be glued
at the top of the bands and upon the pend-
ants.
	PHOTOGRAPH SCREEN.—Cut out eight pieces
of pasteboard, each 8 1/2 iuches by 6 1/2.  In four
of these pieces cut away the centers to form
the mats or inside of the screen.  Cover each
mat neatly with wine-colored satin, letting it
overlap the opening in each mat about half an
inch; slash and baste around each opening.
Cover the back of the mats with silesia and
hem the satin on this.  Cover the other four
pieces with satin on one side and silesia on the
other; overhand them around the edges. Baste

[Column 2, cont.]
the mats and backs together, silesia inside, and
overhand them together on all sides except the
top, which is left open for slipping in the photo-
graphs.  Decorate each mat neatly and grace-
fully.  The name of the person to whom the
screen is to be given may be worked on the
outside.
	A PAPER RACK.—Get a wooden box—a
starch or soap box—from your grocer.  Take
it apart, and plane and smooth it carefully.
Use the bottom of the box for the back of the
rack.  Cut one of the end pieces to a width of
six inches, for the shelf; saw the brackets for
the sides of the shelf from the side-pieces of
box, and cut the lid flown to the right dimen-
sions for the slanting front of the rack.  Ebon-
ize all the parts with the “ebony liquid” used by 
cabinet-makers; nail shelf, brackets, and slant-
ing front, securely; putty the nail-holes and
blacken them, so that they will not be noticed.
Cover the front of the rack with some neat
border design in Lincrusta Walton, gluing it
on, and gilding it, or leaving it the natural
color, as desired.  Put strong cord or fancy
wire through the back of the rack to hang it
up by.
	POCKET PIN CUSHIONS.—To make the pansy,
cut three pieces of purple velvet, and three of
yellow silk, line with bits of white wigan, and
join as nearly as possible in pansy form.  Cut 
a back to fit the whole, cover this with purple
velvet, and join it to the pansy with a layer of
cotton between, sprinkled with sachet powder.
A few lines of yellow paint on the purple
leaves, and purple on the yellow leaves will
give more of the pansy look.
	The star is formed of twelve diamond
shaped pieces of card-board—six for the front
and six for the back, alternately covered with
dark aud light plush or velvet.  Overhand the
parts together, and join the back and front of
the star, placing a layer of scented cotton be-
tween.
	The domino is made of black satin ribbon,
cut to just the size of a domino.  Work the
dots in with white silk; glue both faces to stiff
cardboard; make a narrow edge of black satin,
overhand the dominos together; fill with bran
and sachet powder before closing up one end.—
St. Nicholas.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CARELESS PENMANSHIP.
Contributors to magazines and newspapers
should write a legible hand, using ink invaria-
bly.  Nothing is more exasperating to an editor
than to receive carelessly scrawled manuscript
unpunctuated, probably, and written in faded
ink or blurred lead pencil.  No wonder the
waste basket is never empty!  The importance
of writing distinctly when writing for publi-
cation was recently illustrated in a magazine
in London.  In a clergyman’s letter from Asia,
he meant to write the "people of Judea,” but
the printer made it “the people of India.”
The manuscript was submitted to an expert
chirographist, who decided that the printer
was entirely justified.  The clergyman’s
“Judea”, as written, had an I instead of a J,
an n instead of a u, and it was impossible to
decide whether the next to the last letter was
intended for an e or an i, it being as near one
as the other.  People who write carelessly and
indistinctly, when writing for publication, have
nobody but themselves to blame when mistakes
are made in printing names of persons or
places.  The printer is usually wonderfully
expert in deciphering bad writing, but he can
not perform miracles.  As an experiment, let
the reader hastily write down the words Judea
and India, without dotting the i of the latter
and then submit it to a company of friends to
decide “which is which and which is t’other.—
Selected.


HONOR TO THE AGED.
In the Second Ward in this city on November
2nd a pleasant surprise party was given to our
worthy President, Sarah Smith Wheeler, on
her 79th birthday, by the sisters of the Re-
lief Society, where all present enjoyed them-
selves at a dinner, prepared by the sisters, and
in offering congratulations to one who has
labored so long and faithfully as our president.
The sisters also presented her with a small
purse of money.
		We could not tell thee half the good
	That now our wishes softly bear,
		In heaven alone is understood,
	The fullness of our birthday prayer.
				SARAH MITCHELL, Sec.


LITTLE LETTER.

Dear Sister Wells:

	I am a member of the Richmond Primary
class.  Our President and her counselors do
all they can to make our meetings interesting.
We held a Primary District Conference—our
Stake President, Sister Jane E. Molen was
present and gave us some good instructions.
	I like to attend Primary meetings and Sun-
day School.  My father is on a mission and I
hope that I shall be worthy to be a missionary
when I am old enough and labor for the King-
dom of God.  With love to all, I remain,
	your young brother in the Gospel,
				CHARLES W. Nielson
	P. S.  Sister Wells will you please insert
this little letter in the Exponent? 
				Richmond, Nov. 5th 1885.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"Mrs. Myra Clarke Gaines, of course under
a fictitious name, is the heroine of a new novel
by Rhoda E. White, entitled “What will the
World say?"

	"France has agricultural schools for girls.
One of the chief is near Rouen, and has 300
girls from six to eighteen years of age. The
farm is over 400 acres.

	A new play, called “The Doctoresses,” to
make fun of lady M. D.s, has just been brought
out in France at a popular theatre.  “All
Paris” is rushing to see it, and to join in the
laughter bestowed on the heroine of the piece,
who is, of course, an "M. D.”

	“The Woman's Advocate is a little paper
edited by Mrs. M. H. Pengily, in the interest
of sane women confined in lunatic asylums. It
also makes an earnest plea for the better treat-
ment of women patients in these institutions,
who are too often cruelly mismanaged.”

	“Mrs. Fanny Sawtell, of Lontezuma, Colo.,
has been working a mine which she owns there,
for six years, and says she never enjoyed life
better.  When in the mountains by herself, she
wears a belt filled with cartridges, and a ‘life-
preserver,' for self-defence in case of need.

	In most of the cantons of Switzerland the
children of poor people are regularly hired
out by auction, lest their parents should be
compelled to seek public assistance.  Recently,
in the market-place of Biel, near Berne, in
spite of the heartrending entreaties of a
widowed mother, her four young children,
ranging from two to ten, were “placed" out
for a year to the highest bidder by the public
crier.  Switzerland evidently needs to adopt
woman suffrage,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A SONG OF ZION.
	Zion, awake, for the darkness falls,
		And a long night cometh on.
	And the trusted friends in the banquet halls
		To the foeman’s camp have gone.
	And the traitor’s tongue and the slayer's arm
		Are nerved to deal the blow
	To break thy strength and to spoil thy homes,
		By the faggot's cruel glow.
	Daughter of Zion, go lay aside
		Thy rament rich and fair,
	Go, free thy heart of its worldly pride,
		And cover thy shining hair,
	For the wicked watch and wait for thee-
		They hate thy virtue rare
	Let thy festal song and thy joy be stilled,
		And bow thee in fervent prayer.
	Daughters and sons, can ye rejoice
		When truest and bravest men,
	Chained and guarded, are crowded in
		Like lambs in the prison pen?
	Children of Saints, do ye forget
		That the bondage cometh first-
	Till the soul is proved and purified-
		Ere the prison walls are burst?
	Lo! the trump of God hath sounded now
		The call to the battle field,
	"Thrones shall totter" and rulers bow
		And every nation yield;
	Then forth from every temple's height
		Shall peal with one accord,
	Free Israel's song to usher in
		The reign of Christ the Lord."
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, November 7th 1885.


THE SEASON FOR MEDITATION.

	“It is the melancholy season” of the year,
the time when all nature puts off her beauti-
ful garments with which she has been so pro-
fusely and artistically adorned, and as it were,
bewails her fate, moans for the lovely robes
with which she has bedecked herself and that
she must now lay aside for a season baring
her bosom to the piercing winds that blow so
fiercely and the cruel storms that beat so
heavily, stripping off even the few faded and
tattered shreds, that still remained to cover
her naked limbs.
	What a wonderful creature is nature, and
how emblematic in all her movements and in
all her ways of life, even in sympathy, we
might almost say sentiment and positively say
feeling.  How grand and with what majesty
does she array herself after wearing the royal
crown of summer gracefully passing to the still
more: royal purple and crimson of Autumn,
and with what dignity doth she clothe herself
as though for a queenly presentation to all her
subjects, that they may behold her grandeur
on hill and mountain height and in the mag-
nificent forests in splendor almost dazzling.
	In the Spring one's thoughts come lightly
gushing up from the fountain of the heart like
an overflow, dancing to the rhythm of the
babbling brooks, and merry songs of birds,and
twitter and hum of insects, but in the late
Autumn days, one feels the shadows of
silence creeping on and around, and a sense
of dying beauty with which the deepest feeling
of the heart holds sweet companionship.  Ere
the winter with its yule-logs and Christmas
festivities has really come, there is oft a sense
of dreary calm, as though nature were enjoy-
ing a sort of silent repose, and though the
winds are occasionally restless, and sudden
storms sweep over the landscape, ruffling the
composure of nature and of the human heart
and mind, yet this mood invites to meditation,
thought, reflection, sentiment, if you will, and
even in a peaceful way one falls to musing and
recalling the delights of other days.  The
scenes are shadowy and fill us with something
beyond the power of speech, we commune with
ourselves and find it most effective.  Silence
and repose are sometimes, the most grateful
sensations, for in the bustle of the great living,
breathing, pulsing world, we lose our best
thoughts; they fly away from us and are lost
in the realms of space beyond recall.  At
times when quiet reigns in nature’s realms
we hunt for these lost treasures, and though
we may not indeed find them, we have a touch
of memory from them that brings us calm.
No, we cannot live over again what has gone,
but in memory we reproduce pictures of the
bright, the beautiful, the gay, the sombre and
clouded, all touching tenderly the heart,
through the memories which have lain folded
away from sight, and almost entirely forgotton,
until some trifle in nature, or some particular
mood recalls it, all at once, we know not ex-
actly why.
	The dead past, or the face of a dead friend,
or the gentle touch that thrilled our souls in
bye gone days,may come with a quiver of pain,
or a soft whisper of peace, and, in a moment,
as it were, bursting upon our view will appear
a whole horde of recollections that seemed to
have been buried forever.  How beautifully are
all such feelings toned, and the proud spirit of
mortal subdued by the peculiar con-
ditions of the fading of the green leaves,
“the death of the flowers,” and the sighing
and moaning of the winds of November.
	The remembrance,too, of “fruitless longing,”
aspirations of the soul that have failed of ful-
fillment, endeavors to climb to heights un-
attainable because of the many obstacles in
our pathway, and the rough rocks and sharp
thorns that left us torn and bleeding, and yet
in other places loving hands have tended us,
folded us in the bosom of peace and guided
our weary feet “through the green pastures and
by the still waters.”
	Goodly gifts come too, with the Autumn, a
rich heritage of corn and grain, the sheaves
sometimes exceeding heavy, and luscious fruits
and nuts of brown, these	remind us of the
meritorious labors of those who have garnered
sheaves of good works, and laid up treasures
of wisdom and knowlege against the day of
need, the time when the Lord, the judge of all
the earth, shall require from each an account,
of their labors and the use they have made
of that which was entrusted to their care and
stewardship.

		“So much of change my life hath known,
	I love those dear familiar ways
		In which I walk and muse alone
	In all the calm of Autumn days."

	To ramble undisturbed at this season of the
year and hold sweet discourse with Dame
Nature, not in the passive eloquence of words
but in that communion of exquisite silence
that calls out the truest sympathy, and the
best and purest thoughts and feelings of
which humanity is capable.  Such rare moods
refresh the weary soul and make us feel that
God is ever near to own and bless his chil-
dren.
							AUNT EM.


FATHERS OF THE NEXT GENERA-
TION.
	Pass by the girl of the period for once, and
consider the ways of the young man of our
day.  Is he such a paragon that he has a
right to set himself up as a railer at the gen-
tler sex?  That the young woman has taken
new fields of work is very true, but she has
done so in spite of the competition of the
young man of the period, and thus earned her
place by the survival of the fittest.  While
she has done this the native young man has
left the plow and the work-shop, and has
sought what he supposes is more genteel em-
ployment, until the useful branches of indus-


try are now largely filled by persons born and
trained in other countries.  While the general
increase of education has opened up many new
employments for girls, and they have taken
their places in them bravely, the young men
have drifted into clerkships or speculation,
or into the small politics, most ruinous of all.
The same is true in matters of higher culture.
The young man has become listless, or idle, or
has gone undisciplined, while the girls have
organized book and music clubs, attended lec-
tures, and otherwise fitted themselves for the
more exacting duties of our modern life.  It
is often the case that, while the rich young
man goes rapidly to the dogs by reason of his
bad habits and worse vices, his sister is en-
gaged in the exacting duties of church or
charity, or in other work which cultivates the
humanities and does the world some good.
The real truth is that, the country over, there
are not enough earnest, deserving, ambitious
young men to marry the honest, sensible, well-
meaning girls who are ready to do a true
woman’s part in building up good and happy
homes.  Our family training, defective as it
may be in many respects, has still kept the
rein on girls, while it has given the spur
to boys, and if the gamblers are sensible they
will try to devise some way to overcome this
inequality, and thus bring the young man up
to such a standard as shall fit him to do some-
thing else in life than to stand off and rail at
the follies or the frivolities of young women.—
Selected.


MISCELLANEOUS.
A beautiful soul is rather to be envied than
a beautiful face.—Ez.
	Strike from mankind the principle of faith,
and men would have no more history than a
flock of sheep.—Buluer.
	Natural ability without education has oftener
raised man to glory and virtue, than educa-
tion without natural ability.—Cicero.
	The darkest hour in the history of any
young man is when he sits down to study how
to get money without honestly earning it.—
Horace Greeley.
	There is a gentle element, and man may
breathe it with a calm, unruffled soul, and
drink its living waters, till his heart is pure;
and this is human happiness.—N.P. Willis.
	No man has come to true greatness who has
not felt in some degree that his life belongs to
his race, and that what God gives him He
gives him for mankind.—Philips Brooks.
	I cannot tell you whether there is any par
ticular etiquette to be observed in administer-
ing a kiss; the great beauty of a kiss lies in
its impulsiveness, and in its impressibility.—
H. W. Shaw.
	Henry W. Shaw (“Josh Billings”), by
whose death we lose not merely a humorist,
but an uncommonly shrewd coiner of aphorisms
that condense much practical wisdom, it ap-
pears was the Uncle Ezek of the Century's
“Bric-a-brac” department.—Ex.
	Parents should remember that what they
are in themselves will form a far stronger
force in molding their children’s characters
than the most fervent exhortations they can
utter, the most urgent efforts they can make,
or the longest array of motives they can pre-
sent.  It is their living example that will be
followed.  If to them duty is a cross heavy
to be borne and happiness something quite
apart from it, perhaps even opposed to it,
no reasoning, however cogent, no assertions,
however forcible, no testimony, however
weighty, will ever convince their children of
the contrary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿ 
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	 	-		 Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	NOVEMBER 15, 1885.


[Column 1]
	CHOOSE THE BETTER PART.
			      ------
   The present time is, to the Latter-day Saint,
fraught with the most intense interest, as well as
bit with mighty events, and it causes one to medi-
tate solemnly, and weigh and measure one's own
capacity and strength to endure the trying ordeals
through which the Saints are, and may be called
upon to pass, in order to prove their integrity and
steadfastness to the truth.  Humility, patience
and sacrifice are necessary to the Saint of God,
and one needs to be clothed upon with all the
Christian graces to meet and combat with, and
overcome all the influences, temptations and be-
setments, as well as all the opposition, that
arouses in the soul the fire of indignation at re-
peated insults from those who delight in making
war upon the Saints of God, and destroying the
virute and purity of those who have been made
partakers of the truth, and received that knowl-
edge which carries conviction to the human heart.
As there is joy in heaven over one sinner that re-
penteth, so also is there exultation in the dominion
of Satan over one who is lost from the fold of
eternal life.  The powers of darkness are grow-
ing thicker and darker, and the thraldom of sin
and iniquity is binding faster and stronger its
chains upon those who have stepped aside from
the "narrow way," and been caught even unawares
in the snares and devices of the enemy of all
righteousness.
   A venerable lady, who is now no more, has
often reiterated in our hearing a saying of Joseph
the Prophet, "that the time will come when the
powers of darkness will be so great that they
would be much more to be dreaded than disease,
for they would be more seductive, catching and
deadly in their nature."
   Surely this will come to pass, and how shall the
Saints guard and protect the innocent and inex-
perienced from such unforeseen and terrible
dangers?
   All the protection that can be thrown around
the youth of Zion, all the teaching of fathers,
mothers and instructors, as well as the noble ex-
ample that must ever characterize those who stand
as expounders of correct and holy principles, all
these and more will be necessary to preserve the
purity and faith, and promote the higher spiritual
development of the children of Zion under the
peculiar exigencies of the Saints in this day and
age, and the evils brought into their midst by
those who ridicule virtue, and set a price upon the
heads of men who seek to inculcate and establish
institutiosn that tend to a higher moral plane, and
a broader field of philanthropic effort for the hu-
man family; men who have thrown aside the
advantages and emoluments that the world offers,
for the sake of doing a nobler and holier work for
the benefit of mankind, temporally as well as
spiritually. And this work cannot fail, however
offensive it may be to the government, and to those
who cannot comprehend its fitness and genius, yet
it will endure, and those who fight against it will
be destroyed, just as the prophets foretold.  Mean-

[Column 2]
﻿time the Saints have need to guard every loophole
where sin and iniquity might enter, or any evil
influence penetrate to lead astray the weak, the
young and unsuspecting. 
	If the youth of Zion will hearken to the coun-
sel and instruction of their parents, and of those
who are set to lead and guide in Israel, they will
choose“that better part,” and gain that true knowl-
edge that cannot be taken away.  There is much
to learn in the present for those who will avail
themselves of the grand opportunities which are
now open to them, and also much to be achieved.
There will be abundant material, too, in the events
now transpiring, to make history and biography
replete with thrilling incident and interest.  There
is no monotony in Mormonism, there are always
new occurrences, new scenes, new phases to make
it interesting, and add to its importance as a
religious system and social topic.  The injustice
shown to the people of Utah, after their having
settled upon desert lands and made them habitable
and fruitful, must necessarily have a telling effect
upon the children and rising generation, for they
cannot help feeling and realizing the wrongs their
parents have suffered from that free government
which should have vouchsafed to them protection
and religious toleration, instead of which it has
encouraged and authorised encroachment upon
rights, civil and religious, even to disfranchise-
ment and cruel persecution.
   The report of the Utah Commission to the
Secretary of the Interior,and the extreme measures
these men have suggested to the general govern-
ment, are too much even for many bitter opponents
of the Latter-day Saints to countenance and
approve.
   The judges and their satellites, who administer
and enforce the proscriptive laws, made to punish
men who have chosen the better part, that leads
to exaltation and endless lives, are so blinded by
bigotry and the love of greed that they cannot see
to pluck the beam from their own eyes, but prob-
ing with instruments of keenest quality to discover
the mote in the eye of any true “Mormon.”  The
words of the Savior in regard to the beam may,
with all consistency, be applied to the terrible
and crying social evils that exist in all the great
cities of the world, and indeed throughout
Chirstendom; while here in Utah a few have
accepted a higher and better form of marriage,one
that tends to social purity and the elevation of the
human race, and these citizens cry aloud against
any little mote,which,compared to the practices and
habits of so-called enlightened society, may well
be reckoned as a mote to the beam.  The noble
and heroic examples of many whose lot it has
been to stand before the courts and receive sen-
tence, has won for them the admiration of all who
recognize true manliness.  And there can be no
doubt as to the result of such conduct upon the
youth of Zion.  It will tend to strengthen the
weak and give courage to the indifferent, and
prove beyond a fear of contradiction, to the hon-
est and sincere lovers of truth, that there is an in-
herent power in the institutions of the Church
that enables its followers to rejoice in tribulation,
and through suffering to be made strong, that
thereby they may attain to the same glory and
blessings as Abraham, having been tried like un-
to him and the Saints in all ages.


[Column 1]
	In Memoriam
	Died, in this city, Tuesday, at 2 p.m., Novem-
ber 10th, Mrs. Phoebe Whittemore Woodruff, wife
of the Apostle Wilford Woodruff, President of
the Quorum of the Twelve. Sister Woodruff's
death was sudden, although she had been suffer-
ing from the effects of a fall, which occurred
about four weeks previous, and she had been fail-
ing somewhat in health for the past few months.
The absence of her husband, on account of the
persecution now raging against this people, calls

[Column 2]
out the sympathies of all their friends, and
especially because of their advanced age and the
many years they had spent together.
	In many respects Sister Woodruff was a re-
markable woman. She was strong-minded in the
best sense of the word, and her integrity to the
Gospel could ssarcely be surpassed; she had en-
dured much privation and hardship that her
husband might fill his mission among the nations
without murmur or complaint. Twice she accom-
panied her husband abroad upon missions; once
to the Fox Islands, and to England. She has
ever been an earnest and energetic worker among
the sisters in the organizations of the Relief So-
ciety and the Associations, and has filled several
honorable positions. She was chosen President
of the Relief Society in the Fourteenth Ward at
the time of its organization in the spring of 1857,
by Bishop Hoagland, and held the position until
the move south, resigning after her return, on
account of increased family cares. Sister Wood-
ruff was one of the presiding officers of the
General Retrenchment meetings, that are held
semi-monthly in this city in the interest of women's
associations and advancement. She has traveled 
extensively in the Territory with her husband and
the sisters, exhorting and instructing the sisters in
their duties in the organizations, and in the various 
spiritual and practical labors, in which woman's
mission upon earth consists. Sister Woodruff
was a woman wise in counsel, and one that ex-
celled in judgement. When the Deseret Hospital
Association was organized, she was chosen one
of the Board of Directors, which position she
held until her death. She was well versed in the
Scriptures and in Church history, and gifted in 
faith and prayer, religious in her nature and
characteristically Puritanic in her attributes,
domestic habits and conduct.
	At the Woman's Mass Meeting in the Salt Lake
Theatre, Nov. 16th, 1878, Sister Woodruff de-
livered a powerful extempore address on the
woman's side of the "Mormon" Question, in fact
her whole life, since she received the Gospel, has
been devoted to her faith, and she has abundantly
proved her zeal and devotion by her labors, both
public and private.
	Sister Woodruff was born in Scarboro, Maine,
March 8th, 1807. Her parents were of English de-
scent; her maiden name was Carter, and on her
mother's side Fabyan. In 1834 she embraced
the Gospel, and about a year after went to Kirt-
land, Ohio. Her parents and friends were much
grieved at her leaving them, and her mother re-
marked she would much rather bury her, and
when she was about leaving said to her, in the
most impressive manner, "Phoebe, will you come
back to me if you find Mormonism is false?"
And in the most affectionate manner the daughter
answered thrice repeated, "Yes, mother, I will!"
and her mother knew that she would keep her
promise. When all her preparations were made
she dared not trust herself to say "goodbye," but
wrote her farewell to each, "then ran down stairs
and jumped into the carriage," and drove away
from the beloved home of her childhood, alone in 
the world, for the love of the truth and for the
sake of uniting herself with the Saints of God.
	After her arrival in Kirtland, Miss Carter, as
she was then called, became acquainted with
Wilford Woodruff, whom she subsequently
married in 1836, and was the mother of nine
children, four of them now living; one son, Wil-
ford Woodruff Jun., and three daughters. Bro.
and Sister Woodruff came to the valley in 1850,
he having been called from Winter Quarters on a
mission to the Eastern States, whither his wife
accompanied him, after his return from the valley
with the pioneers.
	Sister Woodruff has left on record some very
powerful testimonies to the truth of the Latter-
day work, and of Joseph Smith, as a prophet, seer,
and revelator.


The writer was personally acquainted with Sis-
ter Phoebe W. Woodruff since the sojourn of the
Saints in Winter Quarters, and always found her
a true friend, a woman whose word was sacred,
true in every place and faithful to duty at all
times, a mother in Israel in very deed, firm and
unflinching in the hour of trial, patient and un-
complaining in adversity, and always a comfort
and strength to her family, and all with whom she
was associated.
	Her funeral was held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Thursday, Nov. 12, at one p.m.
where she had so often addressed the sisters in
their meetings. Beautiful flowers in profusion
were laid upon her coffin also a sheaf of wheat,
fully ripe, emblematic of her life and works. The
coffin was borne from her home to the Hall by
members of the family and near friends, followed
by the mourners, snme of the Apostles and
Board of Directors of the Deseret Hospital and
the Relief Society of the ward, in regular proces-
sion.
	The funeral services were conducted by Bishop
Thomas Taylor, and the singing, which was very
touching, was rendered by the ward choir.
Bishop O. F. Whitney offered an eloquent prayer,
and brief speeches were made by Apostles H. J.
Grant, J. H. Smith, Bishop L. D. Young, Prest. A.
O. Smoot, and Apostles J. W. Taylor and F. D.
Richards and the Bishop, each one testifying
to her integrity, faith and good works, and relating,
in some instances, incidents in her life and
character. The last hymn, "Come to me," was
very affectively rendered, and the benediction pro-
nounced by Patriarch John Smith. Thus after a
long and useful life, she has passed to her rest in
the full hope of a glorious resurrection beyond 
the grave. "Blessed are the dead who die in the
Lord."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

     MR. GEO. H. SCOTT, Local Agent for the
Geneva, New York, Nurseries, has arrived in the
city for the purpose of soliciting orders for fruit
trees and ornamental trees, shrubbery, etc., etc.,
for spring delivery of 1886. The Geneva nurseries
have been doing business in the northwest for
many years past, viz.: the Territories of Montana,
Dakota, Utah, etc., etc.  A large shipment will
be made here this fall.  The trees shipped here
to this section have been first class in every
respect, and in most cases are doing well, as the
testimonials published will show, and these few
represent the opinions of a great many people,
for the shipments have been large here for a num-
ber of years past.  Mr. Scott will take orders
principally for ornamental trees, shrubbery, plants,
etc., etc.  He makes this work a specialty.  Office
Central Block, West Temple. 
	SISTERS Minerva W. Snow and Elizabeth
Howard made a tour through parts of Emery
Co. in the month of October, via. the D. & R. G.
Railway.  They arrived in Price on Thursday
evening, Oct. 22nd, and went on to Huntington,
Friday, and held a general meeting there in the
afternoon, which was well attended; Bishops and
other brethren were present, as well as sisters.
Saturday they went over to Castle Dale, accom-
panied by Sister Ann Pulsipher, Coun. to Sister
Annie Larsen, Prest. of the Relief Society in that
Stake.  Here they were joined by the President
who resides in that place, remained there over
Sunday, attended the Sabbath meetings, and on
Monday held three meetings, one with each or-
ganization.  On Tuesday the sisters went over to
Moab and held a general meeting; then went on
to Feron, where they held three meetings, and
then to Orangeville, where they also held meetings,
and from there to Wilsonville, where they met
with the Relief Society and organized a Primary
Association.  From there they returned to Hunt-


ington, where they held three meetings, and came,
on as far as Price, where they stopped again and
organized the children in a Primary Association
in the forenoon, and in the afternoon attended a
meeting for the organization of a Relief Society
in that ward. In journeying through the Stake,
the sisters met with the utmost kindness from
Bishops, and many kind friends and acquaintances,
and were everywhere most hospitably entertained,
and enjoyed the trip very much indeed; also the
society of those with whom they traveled through
the settlements, and all whom they came in con-
tact with, and no doubt the visit of the sisters
will be productive of great good to the Relief So-
ciety and Y. L. and Primary Associations, as it is
gratifying to get such practical instruction, as well
as spiritual, as can only be given verbally from
those who have had years of experience in teach-
iug and advising others.


[Column 1]
	REASONING ON MORMONISM. 
			   --------
 The Latter-day Saints are the friends of man-
kind.  They love virtue, good order, morality,and
everything that will bring about a reform temporal-
ly and spiritually; this they endorse with all their
energy and good will. They love to do God’s
bidding and keep His holy commandments. In
all ages of the world God has chosen individuals
here on this earth to declare His word and pur-
poses concerning the inhabitants thereon.
  He has given a commandment to the Elders of
this Church, to go into all the world, to every
nation, tongue and people, and preach the Gospel;
“He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved,
but he that believeth not shall be damned,” and
the signs shall follow them that believe. If the
signs follow the believer, then they have obeyed
the true Gospel. This is one proof they have,
for the same signs follow the Latter-day Saints as
the Former Day Saints.
  Another proof of the validity of this Gospel is
the knowledge of the true God that has been re-
vealed, which gives to His people eternal life.
St. John, 17th chapter, 3rd verse, "And this is
life eternal, that they might know Thee, the only
true God, and Jesus. Christ, whom Thou hast
sent.” And again, the Savior saith, “No one
knoweth the Son except the Father revealeth
Him. The Father said to Joseph Smith the
Prophet, “This is my beloved Son, hear ye Him.”
As the Father and Son stood before him, Joseph
Smith saw the only true God, whom the Latter-
day Saints worship, also His Son. I will here
give a description of these two personages in the
language of Joseph Smith, Book of Covenants,
Section 130, 22nd verse:
 “The Father has a body of flesh and bones, as
tangible as man’s; the Son also.” Then He is a
material being? And this is according to the
Bible teaching. Genesis, 26th verse, “And God
said, Let us make man in our own image after our
own likeness.” The Savior tried to impress upon
the minds of His disciples that he that saw Him
saw the Father, and said He was in the express
image of the Father. Probably they had a vague
idea of God as they worshiped idols then; as now
an imaginary god is worshiped—an immaterial
substance he is composed of. If I am conversing
with a friend,and they remind me of something of
not much importance, I reply, “It is quite immate-
rial to me.” Do they not understand this invisible,
incomprehensible being as a phantom,of not much
importance, it would be immaterial to take notice
of his immaterial majesty, if so, we can account
for the falling away from justice, and the non-
enactment of good and wholesome laws, and
for the great amount of crime that goes un-
punished.
  Out here in Utah we have a standing post of
Government soldiers. They are paid by “Uncle
Sam” to be idle, get drunk and disturb the peace;
there is no manner of use for them here. The

[Column 2]
only thing that is brought to notice here is poly-
gamy; our best busines men, with good sound
judgment, doing business in a straightforward,
honorable way, showing good, honorable treat-
ment to their households, courtesy and respect to
the opposite sex, are tried for good conduct. No
lady in Utah need fear an insult from these most
honorable gentlemen, who are the peers of those
who handle the proscriptive laws to persecute time-
honored, law-abiding citizens, and let rascals go
free, themselves to boot, if  justice was meted out;
sent here to break up an upright community, who
are trying to live by their hard-earned industry,
after struggling through privation and hardships,
and through many years of toil, have gathered a
small annuity to support their dependent families;
it is now wrenched from them; by whom?  An
official, that has not wiggled his little toe to earn
one dime of what he takes from his honest peer,
and thrusts him out of society, and deprives him of
his usefulness and his family of that support, that
they  are  entitled  to  receive.  I  say give
them the length of the rope and they will hang
themselves. Shame on such doings! What
wonderful logic, what great oratory, and what
swelling of words it takes to confirm in a sensible
mind where that great Edmunds law-abiding,
constitutional crime comes in. One would think,
naturally, that wise heads were getting scarce.
There must be a lack of weight in the brain.
There is no force in the law to quell. mob violence,
or put down secret society outbreaks; ruin is on
the verge of time.
  Ye officers of state, look well to home affairs;
let your eyes rest on sin of the blackest hue at
your own doors. Time is short, do not waste it
on Utah.  First make clean the inside of the
platter, and the Latter-day Saints will clean both
sides. “Of little meddling comes great ease."
				   MARY ANN M. PRATT.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

		LAIE, Oahu, H. I., Oct. 28th, 1885.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	Since I wrote last, Sister Kaahanui Kaleohano,
one of our best Hawaiian sisters, prominently con-
nected, for many years, with the Relief Society of
these Islands, and mother to Sister Lucy Kahaule-
lio Ioane, now in Salt Lake City, has been called
to her last rest from mortal ills. She was a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint up to her last moment on
earth, and was for a long time a counselor to the
President of the Relief Society of the Islands,
but her failing health made it difficult for her to
perform the duties of that position, and at last
April Conference she was released from that call-
ing, and chosen for a counselor to the President
of the Laie Society, where her duties would be
more local and lighter, without materially lessen-
ing the value of her services to the cause.
	She joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in July, 1851, being baptized by Prest.
Georgo Q. Cannon. She was then about fifteen
years of age, having been born July 2nd, 1836, and
died on September 4th ult., of dropsy, after a
severe and lingering illness of several months,
which she bore with remarkable cheerfulness and
fortitude, putting her trust in the Lord, by which
she was relieved from all fears or anxiety respect-
ing the final change, that for weeks she calmly
anticipated. She was much beloved by all the
Saints at Laie, and by all that knew her, as was
fully attested by the entire colony, who gathered
to pay their last respects to her remains, shedding
many tears for her departure.
	The semi-annual conference of the Improve-
ment Associations was held at this place, on
October 2nd. There was a goodly attendance,
and the exercises were creditably performed, show-
ing commendable improvement in the young peo-
ple, and that an upward impetus has been given


to these interesting organizations of late by the
energy of the presiding officers.
	One of the interesting features of the conference
was the reading of the manuscript newspapers,
one being published by ladies, and another by the
gentlemen. In the ladies', entitled Ka Olino O
Na Mauna—The Splendor of the Mountains—
this being the third number, there were short,
spicy articles under the heading of "Dewdrops,"
"Provoking Mirth," "Means for Recuperating the
Race," "Foundations of Poverty and Real Wealth,"
"The Crown," "Catching the Monkey," a story
with a moral, "The Rose," "Gathering to the
Mountains," "The Famine for the Word of God."
"Beautiful Zion" (poetry), all of which, of course,
were written in the Hawaiian language, and for
the most part unintelligible to me, but, as I am in
formed, will compare favorably with like composi-
tions from among the young people at home, and
from the deep interest awakened in the congrega-
tion by the reading of these essays, I am satisfied
they must have possessed some intrinsic merit.
	The Conference of the Relief Society was held
on the 3rd, it being well represented from all the
Islands.  The reports showed that the different
branches were mostly in good working order, and
alive to the welfare of the widow and orphan, the
sick and destitute, and to the higher duties of
guiding and strengthening the morals and religious
proclivities of the mothers, daughters and children
of the Church, while some few were slack, being
neglected by those who were placed in charge.
Sister E. Farr was again sustained as general
President, with Sisters Wilcox Kalua Coles and
Kaheana Kealakaihonui, as Counselors.  Sister
Nalia Kekauoha was appointed First Counselor to
the President of the Laie Society, in the place of
Sister Kaahanui Kaleohano, deceased.
	Interesting and encouraging remarks were
made by several of the sisters, and all the officers
were unanimously sustained, and the financial
and other reports approved.
	On the 4th the General Semi-annual Conference
convened at 10 a.m., in the large new meeting
house, and continued, with the ordinary intermis-
ions, until the evening of the 6th.  This confer-
ence is said to be remarkable for the number of
people in attendance, and for the unremitting and
increasing interest manifested by all from begin-
ing to end.  The addresses of the Elders, both
foreign and native, were spirited and instructive,
as evinced by their almost magic effects upon the
congregation.  There seemed to be a united and
true Christian feeling existing among the Saints.
The hospitality of this people is remarkable.  In
this respect they are not surpassed, if equaled, by
the Saints in Zion, who are everywhere noted for
their benevolence, generosity and liberality, and,
withal, their patience, forbearance, and long-suffer-
ing.  I find many qualities among these poor
people to be admired, although there is much in
the conditton of society here that is deplorable, as
elsewhere, among more highly civilized people.
	Some few days previous to the conference the
Elders came in from their several fields of labor,
and remained on the plantation until the 17th inst.,
when they again took their departure to the va-
rious islands, and to their labors in the ministry
for the ensuing six months.  During the visit of
the Elders our little society was quite lively, the
brethren enjoying each other's company very
much after their separation.  We seem quite de-
serted now, since our number has become so few,
but from recent reports from home, we are looking
forward to the arrival of several new missionaries
soon. 
	The Saints have purchased a set of brass in-
struments, at a cost of nearly $400, and now, un-
der the tuition of Bro. Isaac Fox, of Lehi, Utah
Co., a selection of young men are making rapid
progress in the art of making music upon them,
and Laie will soon be favored with an efficient
brass band.  The natives take to music much a 

[Column 2]
they do to water—that is, like ducks, or amphibi-
ous animals, or like fish themselves.
	Some twenty-six acres of sugar cane has been
planted this summer, and the crops are looking
well.  This season has been very favorable for
crops. Stock looks well, feed being abundant on
account of copious rains.
	Praying for the welfare of Zion, and the loved
ones at home, I am, with love,
			Your sister in the Gospel,
									J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE. 
CASCADE LOCKS, OREGON, Nov. 8th, 1885.
MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:
     My ever Blessed Sister.—If I should try I
could not describe how refreshing your kind letter
was away here, although I am surrounded with
dear ones.
     In this romantic place of nature's wild fastnesses
—it would seem reaching "up to nature's God."
In front of the house the rapids commence.  The
grand old Columbia, with silent majesty, like time,
"never reutrns to grind a mill."  Across the river
is Washington Territory.  The banks, as well as
the mountains beyond, are covered with evergreen
—Oregon Fir it is called.  There are little lakes
close to the base of the mountain opposite, manu-
facturing clouds that rise so white and beautiful;
the down stream wind and mountain currents of
air, sometimes causes them to cross each other,
while the green trees below make a most charm-
ing picture; above the clouds are grand, this
morning, especially, as the struggling sun rays fell
in spots at the summit, they gave it a grandeur
truly sublime.
     After twelve days of rain—for twenty-four
hours it had not ceased to come straight down—
this is winter weather here.  The old settlers say
the country is improving, but I often think there is
no place like home, although my duty called me
here, and I am always happy and contented in the
fulfillment of duty.  How lonely it is here, you can
only imagine; comfortable and luxurious in doors,
with books, papers and music, but all these grow
monotonous, in sickness in particular.	*	*
     I intended to have been in the Logan Temple
and part of the time in the city this winter, but
things come so unlooked for.  I am thankful the
Deseret Hospital is getting along as well as it is;
I was so in hopes to have done something to
benefit the institution while in Logan, but fate
seems to control us often contrary to our own
calculations, but I shall try to do the best I can
always.  My health is improving some; the rheuma-
tism is not so bad, although the damp weather is
not so very pleasant; I have to be so careful.
     The lack of appropriation for River and Harbor
improvements by Congress this last year, is a
detriment here.  It will take about four years to
complete the work here if liberally appropriated
for by Congress.
     Dear sister, I often think of the pleasant times
we have had, as neighbors, and in visits, meetings,
etc.; I trust we may yet have many more.  Please
remember me kindly to those across the water,
your own dear self, and the loved ones in Salt
Lake.	*	*	*	*	*	God bless
our dear loved ones, wherever they are—a mother's
daily and most humble petition.
     You have still a busy life in doing good.  I 
ever feel to pray for you all, my dear sisters—
E. R. S. Smith, M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor—yes,
all that are trying to do good, my heart is with you,
especially when you meet in the Fourteenth Ward
meeting; the faces of the loved ones are ever be-
fore me; I long for their sweet company, the
loving shake of the hand.  I had no thought of
being thus separated when I saw you last, but it
is all right, we learn new lessons that will be for

[column 2]
our good, for we do trust in Father, and acknowl-
edge His hand in all things.
     God bless you, my precious sister.  I often say
in my heart, "The duties you perform are many,"
but there is One who knows.  Sweet peace, health,
strength and wisdom ever be yours, is a loving
sister's daily wish, and all your blessings and
promises, if faithful, will surely be realized, and
they are many, so never be discouraged.
     Love to dear Sister Atwood, Sister Grant and
Goddard, Sister Lydia Ann Wells and the others."
	Your sister in the everlasting covenant,
							Z. D. H. Y.


PATTY SESSIONS.

[Continued.]

	Sister Sessions speaks of many times of re-
freshing little meetings and mentions many
names of sisters who have since passed behind
the vail that were associated in these meetings
—Louisa Beamen, Vilate Kimball, Sister
Robert Pearce and Sister Leonora Taylor and
Sister Cutler.  In several places in her diary
she refers to blessings pronounced upon the
heads of the sisters that have since come to
pass.
	On Saturday, the 15th of June, 1847, as re-
corded in her journal, having previously made
all needful preparations, Sister Sessions, with
her husband and family, left Winter Quarters
to come to "the mountains," as she terms it.
It was just ten years on that very day since
they left their fireside and home in the State
of Maine to come to the gathering place of the
Saints.  Sister Sessions says, "I drove one
wagon with a four ox team; we went only four
miles the first day, and the next day went on
fifteen miles further; there are fifty-one wagons
with us; third day we travel seven miles, there
was a heavy thunder shower, but we reach the
camp on the Horn River."  Then she des-
cribes the crossing of the river by this large
company of heavily loaded wagons, the various
inconveniences, the sinking of the raft at one
time wetting the meat and grain, the unload-
ing, drying the provisions, etc.  There are
many of us who remember similar occurences
in our own experience on that journey, no
doubt, and wonder, perhaps, as I often do, how
we endured it all so bravely.
	Friday, the 11th, she says, "Fifty-five more
wagons came up, and all crossed the Horn
River safely.  Patriarch John Smith came up
to the company on the 12th, and brought word
that Sister Mary Ann Pratt had arrived at
Winter Quarters.  Bro. Parley P. Pratt went
back from the camp to see her."  On the 17th
she says Bro. Pratt returned and Sister Eliza
R. Snow and a great many others came up.
Here she mentions Bro. John Taylor coming.
"Tuesday, the 15th, the brethren are called
together to organize."  She mentions the sis-
ters "hulling corn,"  and making small cheeses.
The 17th and 18th, the brethren keep coming,
and mentions the marshall going back for the
cannon.  "On the 19th we leave camp at 12
o' clock and travel fifteen miles to the Platte
River, and on Tuesday, the 22nd, the cannon,
Nauvoo Temple bell and the skiff having
arrived a 8 o'clock in the morning, the organ-
ized company moved on, traveling five abreast,
the two cannons, Temple bell and skiff heading
the middle line; go fifteen miles and camp on
the prairie, near the Platte River.  24th move
on ten miles, and stop at 10 o'clock, waiting
for others to come up and have a meeting to
receive instruction.  25th, go two miles, and
camp with a company of Indian traders; Dr.
Bartlett was one of the company.  They had
been to Pawnee.  26th, go twenty miles, and
camp on Beaver Creek.  Sunday, June 27th,
we had a public meeting for the whole camp."
Sister Sessions also writes of a meeting of the


[Column 1]
sisters later in the day, and that her grand-
daughter. Martha Ann, asked to have a little
meeting with Martha Van Cott, and that the
gift of tongues was given them. 28th, the
men were called out to drill, and she speaks of
the bell ringing for prayers throughout the
camp night and morning. "At 1 o'clock our
company moved on, the cannon in the rear;
Parley's division go in the rear this week. 29th,
we travel ten miles, and camp on the Loupe
Fork of the Platte River; we passed the Pawnee
village; it had been burnt recently by the Sioux.
30th, we wait one hour for Smoot's company to
go on out of our way; go ten miles, when we
come up with the whole camp. The men go
out to find a safe place to cross. We passed
another Indian village to-day. July 1st we 
cross; Bro. Taylor's company go ahead, and
we travel about one mile after crossing the
river. July 2nd we go on twenty miles, and
camp on the prairie without wood or water,
but we had a heavy shower of rain with a great
deal of wind. July 3rd we go on sixteen miles,
and strike the pioneer trail near the Platte
River—Peregrine shot an antelope—Bro.
Sheets calls this Musquito Bend. We found
old wickiups to burn to cook our food by.
Sunday, the 4th, we rested and held a meeting.
The sisters had a meeting afterwards at Sister
Thompson's tent. Monday, the 5th, made a
bridge to cross the creek; we travel fifteen
miles; Parley's company go in front. We
traveled all day on the poineer's trail, and
camped on their camping ground; found a
guide board which marked 217 miles from
Winter Quarters, but the way we have come
it is 190 miles. Tuesday, the 6th, we went on
eighteen miles, and camped on the bank of a
stream from the Platte, where Indians had
been camping; some of us burnt the wickiups
for wood, others waded the stream and brought
over wood on their backs. The camp did not 
all come up with us; Smoot's company have
not come, and Grant's company have not been
heard from since Monday. Go fifteen miles
Wednesday, and camp where the pioneers did;
found another guide-board, which said they
had killed eleven buffaloes before the 2nd of
May. Thursday move on a little farther, and
come on the pioneer's camp again; found
another guide-board, and Peregrine and Bro. 
Pratt saw two horses; Bro. Pratt and Bro Tay-
lor caught them; (supposed they had been lost
by the pioneers). The sloughs are so bad we
cannot follow the trail of the pioneers. Friday
night we camp on the Platte River. Saturday
a party from the camp went out to hunt, and
Sunday morning sent back for a wagon to
bring in their game. We held a meeting, and
also a meeting of the sisters. The hunter re-
turned with 1,800 weight of buffalo meat.
Monday morning it was divided out among
the camp; we stopped, after going twelve miles,
to smoke the meat; the brethren went out to
an island to get wood. Bro. Spencer's com-
pany travel ahead this week; he is Captain
over the first hundred wagons. On the 13th
we go fifteen miles, and find the grass very
short; some of our men went hunting and killed
four buffaloes. In Grant's company, the cattle
broke out of the yard last night, killed a cow,
broke off several horns and broke a horse's leg;
they have to stop and recruit, etc. The 14th
we go on six miles, and stop for the rest of the
camp to come up; we've seen two herds of
buffalo to-day, and found a guide-board with a
letter in it, stating it is 360 miles from Winter
Quarters; we call it 284 by our calculations;
killed one buffalo, and divided it out in our 
fifty." Here she writes about oxen being sick,
and tells of the ways contrived to exchange
and to work one ox alone on the lead, etc. On
the 16th she speaks of having seen thousands
of buffalo, that some ran in among their
cattle, and one was shot, and three others
wounded.

[Column 2]
	So the journal goes on day after day, telling
of hardships, of the exertions made to get wood
to cook the food, of the wild game they kill
and divide, etc., of the cattle they have die,
and those that stray away, etc. On the 17th
she states they got word that Grant's company
had lost seventy-five head of cattle. Sunday,
the 18th, they get letters from the pioneers,
and they were read in the meeting; they were
left at the ferry which the pioneers had made.
On the 20th a meeting was called of four hun-
dred, and decided that five yoke of cattle must
be spared out of each hundred to send back to
assist Grant's company. A man was sent back
with them—Bro. Gusten.
	These items are only given in detail to show
how this second company from Winter Quarters
traveled. It being the first company after the
pioneers, and following on so soon after, makes
it of more consequence historically than those
companies traveling later.
	During the time of journeying, almost daily,
it seems from the records, there were children
born—one or more—and so far no deaths, ex-
cept the man that was shot at the Horn River.
Women were miraculously preserved under
these trying circumstances, and the greatest
faith seems to have been given to all, even the
children; indeed, the Spirit of the Lord was
poured out upon them insomuch that they re-
joiced continually.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

ORDERVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Our Relief Society has been in working-
order for the past ten years.  With Louise O.
Spencer as Prest. and Susannah S. Frackrell
and Clarrissa A. Hoyt as her Counselors; with
occasional changes of Secretary and Treasurer. 
Thongh not possessed of a great abundance
of this world's goods, we are still able to add
our mite towards building Temples, assisting
the poor, etc.
     We have this year succeeded in purchasing
a very suitable house, one large room below
and two rooms above, which gives us good
store room.  Our meetings are held regularly,
and a good spirit prevails.
     Occasionally we meet in social gatherings,
one of which took place on Thursday 29th ult,
that being the 49th birthday of Sister Susan-
nah S. Fackrell, her children wished to meet,
with many of her friends, at her new house,
not as a surprise party, but just to have a
good, sociable time.
     Accordingly, about one o'clock, a company
of about sixty persons met, and enjoyed
friendly greetings and a good dinner, after
which a hymn was sung, and the house dedi-
cated; Prest. T. Chamberlain offering the dedi-
catory prayer.
     The brethren being very much hurried with
their labors, then retired.
     After new arrivals were refreshed, the meet-
ing was given into the hands of Prest. L. C.
Spencer.  A hymn was sung, after which a
very impressive prayer was offered by Sister
Clarrissa A. Hoyt.
     Many strong testimonies were borne and
many comforting words spoken, with many
kind wishes for the welfare of Sister Fackrell.
     The meeting closed with singing and prayer,
when the company dispersed, all feeling that
we had had an enjoyable time.
     Praying that the Lord will preserve the
honest in the truth, and comfort and strenghten
all in the trials we may have to pass through,
we remain your sisters and co-workers in the
cause of truth.
     LOUISE C. SPENCER,
     SUSANNAH S. FACKRELL,
     CLARRISSA A. HOYT,
     LYDIA K. YOUNG, Treasurer,
    HANNAH E. HOYT, Secretary.

[column 2]
PRICE, CASTLE VALLEY, EMERY CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Hitherto we have had no organization in
our midst, and we know you would be pleased
to hear from us.  The health of the people is
good with one or two exceptions; and all are
feeling well in the principles of the Gospel.
     We were pleased to have a visit from our
beloved sisters, M. W. Snow and E. Howard,
from Salt Lake, also the Stake President, sis-
ter Annie Larsen and first Counselor, Sister
Ann Pulsipher, on the 3rd of this month when
the sisters were organized in a Relief Society
and they organized a Primary for the Children
for which we feel truly thankful having a de-
sire to be one with the rest of our sisters in
helping to carry out the commandments God
has given.  We have held two meetings which
were well attended.  The sisters expressed
themselves as willing to try and carry out the
instructions given by those who preside over
them. Hoping you will find space in your
valuable paper for this, our first attempt, and,
praying our Heavenly Father to bless us in
connection with the Relief Society in other
places and in all the world, that we may ac-
complish a good work, we remain
Respectfully,
S. G. COX, President,
PAULINE PACE,
KEZIAH EMPEY, Counselors,
ISABELLE BIRCH, Secretary,
EMMA MATHIES, Asst. Secretary,
SARAH LEIGH, Treasurer.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

     Strawberry Short-Cake.—Bake a rich paste in pie-plates.
Have six ready, In these spread stewed strawberries well
sweetened; lay one upon another, six deep. In winter,
use preserved or canned berries.

     Cocoanut Pie.—One cup of white sugar, butter size of
hen's egg, whites of three eggs, well beaten, one table-
spoonful of flour, three-quarters of a grated cocoanut, and
milk of cocoanut added last, or a tablespoonful of milk,
scant measure. Bake on pie-plates, lined with puff
paste.

     Mincemeat for Pies.—Three pounds of meat (after it is
boiled;) four pounds suet, three and one-half pounds
raisins, one and one-half pounds currants, one-half pound
dried cherries, three teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract of
Nutmeg, and mace to your taste. Four pints white wine,
one pint brandy, four pounds brown sugar.

     Mincemeat for Pies No 2.—Six cupfuls beef, twelve cup-
fuls apples, three cupfuls sugar, two cupfuls butter, two
pounds raisins, one quart cider, three tablespoonfuls cinna-
mon, two tablespoonfuls allspice, one tablespoonful of
Burnett's Extract of Nutmeg.

     Lemon Pie.—Two lemons, four eggs, two tablespoonfuls
of melted butter, eight tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar.
Grate the rinds and add two teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Ex-
tract of Lemon. Separate the yolks from the whites of
the eggs, and beat the yolks with half the sugar, all the
butter, rind and extract; pour in the crust and bake till the
pastry is done; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff
froth, add the rest of the sugar, put in on the pie smooth-
ly and bake in a quick oven one minute; this makes the
upper crust.

     Lemon Pie No. 2.—One egg, one lemon, one tablespoon-
ful of cornstarch, four heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar; one
tablespoonful of melted butter; mix the corn starch with a
little water. Pour upon it a teacup of boiling water. Beat
the sugar and egg together, grate lemon, then add all to
corn starch. Bake with an undercrust. When done, beat
the white of one egg light, and one tablespoonful of pow-
dered sugar; put on top and brown in oven.

     Yankee Puffs. Two ounces of butter, three tablespoon-
fuls of sugar, three eggs (yolks and whites separate), three
teacups of milk, three teacups of flour, one saltspoonful of
salt, one and a half teaspoonfuls of Burnett's Extract of
Vanilla. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and
well-beaten yolks, then the milk, which should be salted


dredge in the flour by degrees, and when these are well
mixed, add the flavoring and whites of eggs, previously
beaten to a stiff froth. Bake in well-buttered teacups,
about fifteen or twenty minutes, till of a light brown. As
these puffs rise very much, the cups must not be filled.
Serve as soon as done with sweet sauce.

	Plum Pudding.—Take three-quarters of a pound of
chopped suet, three-quarters of a pound of stoned raisins,
three-quarters of a pound of currants, quarter of a pound
of citron, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, three-quarters
of a pound of bread crumbs, two apples, cut into small
dice, and a tablespoonful of Burnett's Extract of Lemon;
mix the whole in a basin with three teaspoonfuls of
Burnett's Extract of Cloves, a pinch of salt, six eggs, and
a half a gill of rum or brandy. Butter a pudding mould,
fill it with the mixture, and tie a cloth over the top. Place
a plate at the bottom of a kettle, which is three parts full
of boiling water. Put the pudding in, and boil for four
hours, keeping the pot replenished with boiling water.
Turn out the pudding on a hot dish; sprinkle with sugar.
Pour over half a pint of warm rum or brandy; light it when
putting on the table. Serve with German sauce.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	At a meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Central Ward,
Graham Co., Arizona, a vote was taken and carried unani-
mously, that we draft some Resolutions of condolence to
the memory of Sister Emma Irene Cluff, daughter of
Joseph and Phebe E. Cluff, who departed this life July 1st,
1885, aged sixteen years and six months.
	Whereas, She was loved and respected by all her asso-
ciates, also a faithful member of the Association, a willing
worker at all times, and devoted to the cause of truth and
righteousness, every member of the Association mourns
her loss greatly, for she was alive to her duties whenever
called upon to perform any of the labors of the Associa
tion.
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved parent-
and relatives in the loss of their dear one, not, however,
without the consoling reflection that she will come forth in
the morning of the first resurrection.
	Resolved, that we sincerely sympathize with the bereaved
relatives and friends of the deceased, and pray that the
Heavenly Comforter may enable them to bear this uncom-
plainingly.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the bereaved family, that another be retained in the Associa-
tion, and that a third be sent to the EXPONENT for publica-
tion.					[Committee]
					PRESIDENT AND COUNSELORS,
					SARAH E. CLUFF,
					SARAH A. YOUNG,
					ALPHRETTA R. CLUFF.

		We must be prepared to meet her,
			And our loved ones who are there—
		There, there is no sin nor sorrow
			In that land so bright and fair.

		But oh, this world is full of sorrow—
			Nothing here but bitter woe;
		But we have a work to finish
			Here on earth, before we go.


The following patents were issued to women
during the week ending Oct. 27, 1885:
	Carrie C. Boyd, Fruitport, Mich., Handle
for Package-Carriers.
	Sarah A. Elliott, Norfolk, Va., Flower-
Frame.
	Emma E. Hodson, Chicago, Ill., Bustle.
	Amelia R. Lane, Brooklyn, N. Y., Elastic
Button-hole Attachment for Garment.
	Lilly B. Tubbs, Philadelphia. Pa., Cutoff for
Hydraulic and other engines.
	Catherine Whitney, Lawrence, Kansas,
Mangle.


Of all injustice that is the greatest which
goes under the name of law; and of all sorts
of tyranny, the forcing of the letter of the
law against the equity, is the most insupporta-
ble,—L'Estrange.


[Column 1]
	Beauty if a fairy; sometimes she hides herself
in a flower-cup, or under a leaf, or creeps into
the old ivy, and plays hide-and-seek with the
sunbeams, or haunts some ruined spot, or
laughs out of a bright young face.—G. A. 
Sala. 

TESTIMONIALS. 
COALVILLE, UTAH, Oct. 12, 1885.

GEO. II SCOTT ESQ., 
	Salt Lake City, Utah,
		Agent Geneva Nurseries, 
			Geneva, New York:

	Dear Sir:—In regard to the trees, shrubs,
plants, etc., I received from your nursery dur-
ing the spring of 1885, I can say that every
one has grown, and give promise of doing well,
notwithstanding it was very late in the season
when I planted them. I believe the nursery
stock delivered by this firm is first class in
every respect, and I take great pleasure in
giving the Geneva Nurseries my most hearty
endorsement as a most reliable firm in every
respect. Their hardy Russian apples—the
“Iron Clads”—will certainly stand our climate. 
						W.W. Cluff.

PRESIDING BISHOP'S OFFICE, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	
				June	12,1885.

Mr. J. A. GOOD[-]UE,
	General Western Agent,
		Geneva Nurseries, N. Y.,
			Salt Lake City, Utah: 

	Dear Sir.—In the absence of my father,
from whom I have received your favor of the
22nd ult., I take pleasure in saying for him 
that the trees and shrubs ordered from your
house reached us in excellent condition, were
exactly according to the bill, and are so far
doing well, almost without exception. As to 
how they will succeed in the somewhat unfavor-
able spot where we are located, we cannot of
course speak with any certainty; but the fact
that they have lived at all in a soil so cold
and damp, with occasional submergings fol-
lowed by drought, indicates their strong healthy
condition at the time of planting or setting
out. I shall be pleased to inform you later as
to their much-hoped for growth and well-doing.
			Respectfully yours,
					JOHN Q. CANNON.

THIS PAPER can be found on the 
tables of the
N. D. C. READING ROOM,
718 Washington St., BOSTON, MASS.
	DR. JAMES A. BLISS is duly authorized by
us to receive subscriptions and to make con-
tracts for advertising at our regular rates.
	The Reading Room is open daily to the
public (except Sundays) from 9 a. m. to 5 p. 
m.

F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5.000 Now in Use in Utah
[written rotated left 90 degrees]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant! 
[written rotated right 90 degrees]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any 
other Sewing Machine. It has been
in the Market 23 Years. 
[written normally again, underneath the image of a sewing machine, which is between the two previous stanzas of sideways text]
Young Brothers, 
38 Main Street, 	Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY, 
"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And and elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

