Vol. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1886.	No. 24


ONLY A VOICE.

Why is it, when I hear that voice.
	A spell seems weaved around mine ear;
That bids my heart and soul rejoice
	As if some happiness were near?
 
Strange magic in its mystic sound,
	But reason cannot tell me why!—
Silence is breathing all around,
	And heaves my heart th'unwonted sigh;—

Strange Being is this human life,
	And strange the mystic threads that weave
Around our heart with beauty rife,
	And all its sombreness relieve.

Oh! are not these some little part
	Of that bright atmosphere above?
Concocted by a God-like art,
	And purified by God-like love?

And did we not a portion bring
	Of this bright essence from on high,
When we agreed aside to fling
	Our glorions home and lay it by?

And mated to a mortal frame
	To bear—to suffer—and to die,
That we might greater glory gain,
	Eternal as the heavens are high!

I ween, our Father's love bestowed
	These whisperings of a brighter Home,
To lighten something of the load
	Which pilgrims bear as here they roam.

Oh! whisperings sweet as breath of spring,
	Oh! mystic spells that wrap me round!
THOU GREAT UNKNOWN! my heart I bring,
	That doth with gratitude abound.

And offer it in faith to Thee,
	And bless Thee for the music there
Whose chords respond in unity
	With Nature's Voices that I hear.

Sweet Voice, I thank thee for the train
	Of thought—which here I've tried to trace;
Thou'st floated brightly through my brain,
	To joy and beauty giving place.

Speak on! and let me hear thy tones—
	Ring out! and let me hear the sound;
It breathes the sweets of Hearts and Homes,
	And Memory's Spells it flings around.
					HANNAH T. KING. 
Salt Lake City, April, 1886.


[Column 1]
		STIRRING SENTIMENTS. 

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT: 
	We congratulate you on the success you 
met in having an interview with President
Cleveland, and hope the result will be favor-
able. We were pleased to read the Memorial
of the Women of Utah, and heartily endorse
the Resolutions contained therein! 
	This Memorial is not without effect, which is
plainly seen by the removal of Governor
Murray, Marshal Ireland, Judge Powers and 
others, the last named of these notable officials
being the judge that passed sentence upon
Apostle Lorenzo Snow without one iota of le-
gal evidence by which he could be convicted 
of a fine, much less eighteen months im-
prisonment. Governor Murray and Marshal
Ireland ordered a posse of soldiers to guard
President Cannon when he was under arrest. 
This illegal act is before the eyes of all na-
tions. Where are those notables to-day? 
They are removed and we are glad of it, even
if they replace them by those who are more

[Column 2]
hostile to the Mormons than their predecessors,
from the fact that the more unjust and illegal
their proceedings the sooner their career will
be ended. 
	We have just read the death knell of Sena-
tor Edmunds. He has killed himself trying to
disfranchise the women and pass a bill to
confiscate the Church property of the Mor-
mon. The ladies charge Senator Edmunds
with aspiring to the Presidental chair; if this
is true, he certainly has no conception of the
influence of women even without the ballot; 
they are a power in the land, and the name of 
Senator Edmunds will become a hiss and a by
word among all nations. It is already being
said that he descended from the Nimrods of
Massachusetts that framed laws to burn poor
old helpless women that had no friends. 
Quakers were burned for their religion. 
	We would like to see the speech of Patrick
Henry published in the EXPONENT to awaken
an interest in the youth, that they may more
fully realize the cost of liberty, and impress on
them the spirit of patriotism. In solving all
great problems pertaining to the progress and
elevation of nations it requires a mighty
struggle, and calls for valiant hearted men
who are not afraid to die. Would such cruel-
ties and grievous wrongs be perpetrated in
England, as deputy marshals breaking into
people's houses, pulling the bed clothes off re-
spectable women in the night? No, the Elders
have been protected from such outrages. 
Does the blood of the martyred Saints cry
from that land, "How long, O Lord, holy and
true and righteous God, dost thou not judge
and avenge our blood upon them that dwell
upon the earth?" How is it, in this boasted
land of liberty, the dear old flag is stained
with the blood of martyrs? The escutcheon of
our once free and happy country is desecrated. 
"Hear, O ye heavens, give ear O earth, let
angels bear record of the pleading prayers
of the exiled Saints and the petitions of the
servants of the living God are ascending from
the prison walls to the throne of God. The
Constitution that was given by the inspira-
tion of His Almighty power, guarantees to all
of her subjects the right to worship Him ac-
cording to the dictates of their own consciences. 
This is not all; there are thousands of women
to-day petitioning to the Chief Executive of
the nation to redress them of the wrongs in-
flicted upon them by that infamous bill known
as the Edmunds Law; but thank God there
are such men as Brown, Teller and others, who
have had the moral courage to speak in defence
of the oppressed; may they be promoted and
their names live in honorable remembrance in
the hearts of every true lover of liberty.
							W. EAST.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S RIGHT TO THE BALLOT. 

	It is only a question of time when the right
of woman to vote will be admitted in all civil-
ized communities, where the franchise is exer-
cised at all. Arguments as to the wisdom of
giving to woman such a right may be multiplied
without end, but such objections—those of
policy—can be urged with equal force against
many classes of men who now have the privil-
ege of voting—but that it is just that woman
has a right to be allowed to vote cannot be
controverted, and I look upon it as only a
question of time when pig-headed men who

[Column 2]
pass for statesmen will have the fact that
woman is a responsible being, capable of exer-
cising equal judgment with men in these mat-
ters, beaten into their thick noddles. Not that
it is certain to produce the good results claimed
for it by those who most ardently advocate it
as a panacea for all existing political ends,
but as a matter of justice, pure and simple, 
independent of expedience or probable results. 
Politics is a species of lottery. One never
knows how measures or plans turn out, and in
voting for parties and for measures which are
debatable (and what measure is not) it is
simply a guess, and there is no percentage in
favor of intelligence or purity when the result
is purely suppositional. Politics is become so
hopelessly dirty a stream one is bound to be-
lieve womankind cannot purify it. All things, 
however, are but furtherances of God's great
plans, and whether women vote or not, whether
politics are pure or not, it is certain that great
problems are ever being worked out, and I 
have no reason to assume that intelligence or
even purity are greater factors than ignorance
and vice in their solution, especially as the ex-
istence of all conditions are essential to the
bringing about of the ever mastering and di-
vine purposes. There is no reason why woman
should not vote, and there is no assurance that
either her privilege to vote or that of man
will effect any material alteration in the course 
of events, guiding and directing which there
is an omniscient and alwise intelligence. 
	Even if there will be happy results from the
universal extention of the franchise, which I 
expect to live long enough to see an accom-
plished fact, women lose nothing in the effort
required to obtain that to which they are so
justly entitled. Nothing worth having is ever 
"lightly won," and the franchise will be valued,
like a good dress, at what it cost. Besides the
struggle develops and educates the woman, and
it fits her for the trust, admitting it to be such, 
when the right to vote is accorded. The most
lamentable thing in this connection is to see the
petty subterfuges to which men resort, and the
degrading ideas advanced, in the hope of stay-
ing a movement which grows only the stronger
from the opposition with which it is forced to 
contend. Some of the speeches made in Great 
Britain and recorded in the papers are so eg-
gregiously asinine that the more intelligent
opponents of woman's suffrage should have hid 
themselves in shame to think that their co-
laborers could be so superlatively silly. No
sort of argument could speak such volumes in
favor of the right of women to vote, as do
some of the idiotic effusions which are intended 
to oppose it. The British public moves slowly, 
but it is reasonably sure. It will be a little 
difficult to educate it up to the point of
womam's suffrage, but it can be educated and
will grant the right freely when the enlighten-
ing process has done its work. A number of
energetic women keep plodding away with a 
dogged persistency which gives the lie to the 
oft quoted passage, "Woman, thy name is
frailty," as effectually as it does to a sister ut-
terance which declares that "caprice" and
"woman" are interchangeable terms, and their
perseverance is being rewarded by the conver-
sion of able men to their views who are also
laboring in the same direction. 
	It is strange, but true, that the Irish are do-
ing a great deal for woman's suffrage in Great
Britain, but doing it unwittingly. The Home
Rule meal is leavening the whole lump of


British politics. It is liberalizing ideas fast,
and one of the advantages to women will be
that people will more readily grant justice to
women when the great principle that the right
to elect the government should be shared by
all the governed is accepted as the fundamental
basis on which to give justice. It is not sur-
prising that a country where they punish and
imprison people for attempting suicide (unless
the punishment is given as a penalty for failure)
should be tardy in acknowledging the equal
right of woman with man to vote;but that they
should be so niggardly and mean about it in
the “land of the free and the home of the
brave” (save us heaven!) is one of the evi-
dences that in America demagogues and politi-
cal hypochondriacs have taken the place of
statesmen, and that as a nation the United
States is struggling back into the last century.
The best thing that could possibly happen the
United States would be a number of prominent
funerals. As it is said the prayers of the
righteous availeth much, for heaven’s sake let
the righteous be pursuaded to plead with Provi-
dence to give us a chance to go into, a pro-
longed period of national mourning.
				WANDERING BOY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DISEASED MONEY.

	A writer in the Manufacturer and Builder
gives some very pertinent advice on this sub-
ject: 
	In the numerous speculations as to the va-
riety of ways and channels through which the
germs of contagious disease may be dissemi-
nated, there is one to which but little or no
importance has thus far been attached, but
which, nevertheless, probably plays an import-
ant role. We refer to that universal circulating
medium—money. It passes impartially from
the hand of the millionaire into that of the 
beggar, constantly circulatimg through every
class and condition of society. The person of
fastidious tastes, who will turn from his path 
rather than risk coming into actual contact 
with others of un[-]lanly dress or person will
receive, handle and carry in his pocket with-
out the slightest symptoms of disgust, or per-
haps without giving it a thought, money that
has thousands of times passed through hands
or reposed in pockets whose contact he would
deem to be pollution.  
	In respect to the dangers that may arise from
this cause, paper money is undoubtedly more
to be feared than coin, and the indescribably
filthy appearance of much of that which is 
seen in circulation is familiar to all who read
this. That the handling of such nasty stuff is
often fraught with serious danger, no sensible
person can doubt. It would be well if the
system said to be in vogue in certain countries
of Europe, of destroying every note that comes
into the banks and issuing new ones in their
stead were practiced with us, though even this
would only to some extent lessen and not do
away with the danger.
	But though paper currency is the most to
be feared on the score of communicating dis-
ease, coin is by no means free from danger of
the same kind. It has been shown that the
blackish coating, which may be seen in the re-
cesses and in the milled edges of coins that
have been in circulation for a short time, con-
sists of organic filth which when introduced 
into distilled water and examined under the
microscope was found to be swarming with
bacteria and fungi. 
	We are not sanguine enough to expect that
our readers shall decline to touch or handle 
the stuff, for the reasons here pointed out, but 
we can not refrain from uttering our protest
against the unutterable nastiness, of which
many persons are guilty who would feel them-
selves deeply insulted at any insinuation of a 
lack of refinement or good breeding, of placing


paper currency or coin in the mouth for tem-
porary convenience, while making change or
the like. This most disgusting habit is, singu-
larly enough, confined almost exclusively to
womankind, and is an act of thoughtlessness
which, if any who read this ever practiced, 
we feel sure they will never do again.—Ex.


ENTERING LIFE.

ANNUAL GRADUATING EXERCISES OF SPEN-
		CERIAN BUSINESS COLLEGE.

	Albaugh's Grand Opera-House, Washington,
contained a large and distinguished audience, 
May 6th, the occasion being the twentieth an-
nual graduating exercises of the Spencrrian
Business College. 
	The auditorium resembled a magnificent
hot-house, so laden with the perfume of
many flowers was the fragrant air. While
waiting for the exercises to begin, the Marine
Band rendered a number of selections in its 
inimitable manner. The cards of invitation
which had brought this congregation together
were probably the most artistic specimens of
engraving ever issued for the purpose in that
city. One contained excellently executed por-
traits of the Cabinet, and the other the names
of the graduates. The following was the pro-
gramme. 
	Invocation, by Rev. T. A. King, of Balti-
more. Mexican Serenade, "Mandolina;" Gen-
tlemen's Salutatory, H. Norman Fleming; A
College Song, "Nut Brown Maiden," Spen-
cerian College Quartett, Messrs. Newman,
Phillips, Steele and Spencer; Ladies' Saluta-
tory, Bertha L. De Graffe; Cornet Solo, "La
Belle Amazone," Mr. Walter F. Smith; Gen-
tlemen's Valedictory, Paul A. Steele; Xylo-
phone Solo, "Schmeichelkatzchen," Mr. F. W. 
Lusby; Ladies' Valedictory, Augusta C. Wil-
lige; Song, "Annie Laurie," St. Cecilia Quar-
tett; Solo by Mrs. H. H. Mills; To Lady
Graduates, Vice Principal Mrs. Sara A. Spencer.
Caprice, "Yankee Patrol;" To Gentlemen Gradu-
ates, Principal Henry C. Spencer. A College
Song, "Upidee," College Quartett; Valse,
"Olie Mama." Awarding Diplomas, by Hon.
Daniel W. Voorhees, United States Senate. 
Galop, "Fun in a Skating Rink."


MOTHERS IN-LAW IN HISTORY.

	To support the idea that mothers-in-law have
never been favorably regarded, ethnologists
tell us that a singular custom, which enacts
that a man shall never look upon the face of
his mother-in-law after he is once married, 
prevails amongst numerous savage peoples ap-
parently widely sundered by geographical dis-
tribution and differences of race. The cus-
tom obtains among the Kaffirs of South Africa, 
among several of the Australian tribes, and
among many Polynesians, a fact which some
people assume to point to a common origin of
these races, but which others look upon as
testimony of the existence of a natural law; 
as a piece of wisdom indigenous to each of
these countries, and the direct growth of in-
dividual experience. The custom being found
in such widely separated continents as Africa
and Australia is considered as proving that
it must have been suggested by some common
necessity of human nature, and reasons are
not wanting to show why savages discovered it
was better for a man not to look upon his
mother-in-law. Primarily, say the supporters
of this theory, because his mother-in-law was
a picture in anticipation of what his wife was
likely to be. Before marriage, a man's mind
may not be open to the cold process of com-
parison, but afterwards he begins to consider
what sort of a bargain he has made, and if his 
mother-in-law has not improved with age, the


ghastly possibility of his wife; becoming like
her rises before him. Hence these savage
tribes prescribe the rule that never after mar-
riage should a man see his mother-in-law, and
this in time became a social law or custom.


FOOLSCAP.
 
The origin of this term in its application to
paper is historical and interesting enough to
be repeated here. After Charles I. of England
had been executed the new government of
which Cromwell was the head set to work, and
one of its aims was to remove everything that
smacked of royalty. The paper in official
use up to that time had as a water-mark the
king's crown; and when Cromwell was asked
what should be put in the place of this crown; 
he directed a fool's cap to be put in place of
the crown. This was done, and when Charles
II. ascended the throne of England it was at
first forgotton to replace the cap by something
else, and afterward the king was afraid to do 
anything to recall things dangerous to touch, 
and so it was neglected, and the fool's cap may
be seen as a water-mark on nearly all official
papers in England. It was used in America, 
but of late it has disappeared, while the word
fool's cap remains as an indication of a certain
size of paper.—G. B.


PROMINENT EYES.

	The eye is sometimes protruded in conditions
of disease directly or indirectly related to the
organ. People who are short-sighted, con-
stitutionally dropsical, or affected by hypertro-
phy of the membranes, have protruding eye-
balls, but as a rule their appearance indicates
the abnormal condition. The eye of health 
differs much from the eye of disease, and ex-
perience enables the observer to discriminate
quickly between them.—C. B.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending April 27, 1886, as follows: 
	Marie Cinoris, New York, Artificial Fruit. 
	Mary E. Walker, Oswego, N. Y., Indicat-
ing Orthography. 
	Annie Walther, Fond du Lac, Wis., Gar-
ment-fastening
	Amelia H. Ward, Springfield, Mass., Book
and Music-holder.


Princess Louise's illustrations and sketches
of Canadian life and scenery are used exclu-
sively in illustrating the new guide-book to
Canada, compiled and just issued by the Do-
minion government. 

The free Monday scientific lectures have be-
come so popular among the daughters of the 
artisans of Birmingham, England, that wash-
ing day has been changed to Tuesday. The
London Globe considers this the greatest
achievement of science thus far. 

	There was picked up in London recently 
one of the fifty copies of Mrs. Browning's 
earliest poem, "Marathor." It was written
when she was eleven years old, and was printed
by her father. It is now in the hands of the 
keeper of printed books at the British
Museum. 

	There was lately held in Westminster Town
Hall, England, and interesting meeting under
the auspices of the Rational Dress Society. 
Upwards of one thousand ladies attended. 
The desire was for a dress that shall be health-
ful, useful, and becoming. It was contended
that a dress need not weigh more than seven
pounds, instead of twenty pounds, as a fashion-
able dress does at present.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.] 
	A MOTHER'S WISH.

I am thinking to-night of the future,
	Of a time that will soon be our own, 
When the trials of life will be ended, 
	And we'll dwell in God's kingdom alone. 

When around us will be all the glory
	We've thought of and dreamt of so long, 
And within us will live all the gladness
	That falls upon God's holy throng. 

And I think how we'll look upon earth-life,
	Its sickness, its troubles, its cares,
Thanking God if its end were successful,
	That we fell not within its deep snares. 

How with sorrow we'll look upon weakness,
	How regretfully think upon wrong.
How with gladness we'll view acts of meekness,
	And know how by pain we grew strong. 

We will weep that in sorrow we bore them—
	Our darlings, our innocent lambs, 
With a world full of darkness before them, 
	To be grasped by their dear trusting hands. 

Oh, how with devoutest emotion
	We will thank the great Father of Love; 
If united with us in devotion,
	We may clasp our dear children above! 

Father, grant that Thy glory and goodness
	May dwell in their hearts to the end! 
Let Thy grace and Thy care be sufficient, 
	Let Thy Spirit be ever their Friend. 

And as life with its struggles advances, 
	Oh, strengthen their hearts for the fray, 
May Thy Spirit, which all good enhances, 
	Give them strength and desire for their day. 

Oh, how lovely will then be the future, 
	That day of bright sunlight alone, 
Then, united in God's happy kingdom, 
	We may call the Eternal our own! 
						RUBY LAMONT.
Glenwood, Utah.


[Column 1]
		A FEW THOUGHTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I find myself, in spite of all my hard work,
tired hands and weary brain just wishing to 
talk a little to you by means of the pen. Oh,
how grand it would be to just be able to ex-
press one's thoughts in a satisfactory manner,
but for me, that is impossible with my present 
stock of information. I must then try to be
content with humble efforts to do good, trust-
ing in God for aid in every attempt. Every
article I read in "our paper" gives me some
encouragement and helps to strengthen my de-
termination to go on in the good labor in
which we as Saints are engaged. My eyes are
often dimmed with falling tears as I read in
its columns of the departure to the "better
land" of some loved brother or sister leaving
friends almost frantic with grief. If it is a
wife, tenderly beloved as every true woman
should be, who can fathom the depth of a
husband's sorrow; and if a protector and guide,
who can read the anguish of that widowed
breast? None, none save those who have
drank from the same bitter cup, and that to
its very dregs. As I sit and ponder over these
things, I ask myself this question: Do we as
husbands and wives love and appreciate each
other as we should while we are privileged to
live together, or must we wait till the grave
has snatched one to begin to realize the duty
we owe to each other? In holy places we
have made sacred covenants to be true and
faithful while life shall last, and when our ex-
istence here is ended we expect to be reunited
and enjoy each other's society throughout the
countless ages of eternity. I am led to be-
lieve that when our Heavenly Father and the
holy angels witnessed the sacred ceremony
that united us, it was intended we should tread

[Column 2]
life's pathway hand in hand as loving, trust-
ing companions, and be one in very deed,
sharing joy and sorrow alike, and if pure kind-
ness is a characteristic of life O how much we
may lighten care and soften the many trials
that fall to our lot. Why I really believe
there are men who do not realize that the poor
tired woman they call wife ever needs a tender
word or a caress after the first months of 
wedded life. They forget that her heart re-
mains the same. Though the pink may fade
from her cheek and lip, and her eye seem less
bright, her natural desire to be loved, and es-
pecially by him, is unchanged, and ever will
 be if she be a desirable wife. I also have met
wives who possessed the most devoted husbands
and yet they would repulse their every act of
endearment, and were as cold and indifferent
towards the fathers of their children as a 
Northern iceberg. It is true that some natures
are quiet and undemonstrative, but surely
there is a way that those so near and dear can
be assured of the perfect love and trust of each
other. It is cruel and contrary to the will of 
God for His children to drag out a miserable
existence on this earth, heart-hungry and
weary, when He placed the desire in
the bosom of every person to be loved
and impart love to some congenial spirit.
If we truly share our husband's joy and
sorrow we will love not only our own dear
children, but we will have a tender watchcare
over all those who belong to his family. We
will regard the rights of those who stand as
our equals in every respect in the eyes of God.
Their little ones we will love; their interest we
will seek, and while they are unhappy we can-
not rejoice. My sisters, let no idle gossip fill
 your hearts with unkindness toward any mem-
ber of the family to which you belong. Re-
member, it is Satan's mission to make you un-
happy and destroy you body and soul, if you
give him power to do so. Tell him with power
to stand back. Do not take him to your
bosom and regard him as a friend, even if he
presents himself in the form of some one you
have felt to trust. That one is a false friend 
if he tries to destroy your confidence in any it
is your duty to respect.
	Let all understand that a mischief maker is
detestable to you, and the book of God has
condemned all such. Does it not say, "Blessed
is the peacemaker, for he shall inherit the
right to dwell in His kingdom?" Also,
"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall
see God." Do you think the tale bearer, the
evil speaker, who creeps into our hearts and
homes with his wily hypocrisy, can be classed 
with either of these?
	Now a word to those who are inclined to
talk: Be sure you always speak the truth, and
remember, it is not only a sin to say that
which is false, but it is also very wicked and
contemptible to tell every little thing you may
have heard for facts, when you are aware the
telling may wound hearts and injure good
names and destroy friends. None can imagine
the extent of the harm you may do just to
gratify the curiosity of your hearers and your
own insatiable desire to mind that which does
not concern you. Let me implore of you to
try to overcome this fault. Pray for our kind
Father to help you, and He will hear you and
answer your petitions if you are determined.
All good men and women will learn in time to
trust you, and how much more satisfied you
will be with yourself than when you were a 
mere tool to carry on the practices of Satan
and his train. My sisters, this is plain talk,
and it is not given to wound one tender heart,
but to remind us of the great and important
duties we owe to husbands, wives, and in fact
to all the human family.
	We are living in an eventful time, when
 great things are about to transpire, and we
must begin to make hasty preparation if we
desire to regain the time we have lost in our

[Column 3]
slowness to comprehend the things in store for
the faithful, and the necessity of our watching
our every thought  and word and deed.
	I pray that heaven may aid us to overcome
every weakness of our nature, that we may
live so pure with each other that we may one
day be worthy to enjoy this "perfect love."	
					VIOLET OWENS.
	May 4th, 1886.


A TRIBUTE.

	DEAR FRIENDS:

	I am in doubt as to whether you ever
cast a thought out here to this central portion
of the U. S. A., being so absorbed in your vari-
ous cares at home, that you do not find time
to roam, perhaps, even in thought so far away.
It seems an age waiting to hear direct from
you.
	Glorious spring! arrayed in all her magnifi-
cent robes of beauty, is around me, yet the
world is so full of chaos, caused by the very 
essence of sin poured out unsparingly by the
arch fiend, that I cannot rejoice as I otherwise 
would in nature's brilliant adorning at this
most delightful and unusually advanced, grace-
fully budding and blooming season. The EX-
PONENT for May 1st has been tardy in appear-
ing, but pays for delay in its variety and 
charmingly interesting make up—from "The
Marriage of the Flowers"—

	Such a pretty thing in rhyme, 
	It sat my thoughts a roving 
	To gardens sweet with thyme;
	To blooming fields of clover,
	I crossed on time's bridge over, 
	And soon became a rover
	In youth's enchanted clime; 
	Where sweetest notes were sounded
	In strains that were divine, 
	And I would continue further, 
	But excuse me, just this time.

	Each article in its place was duly read and 
traced all through, each little column, from
Household Hints to advertisements, and al-
though some things related made me a shade
more sad, others compensated and made me
rather glad; as for instance, "Why Is It?"
"Watch the Children's Feet," "Armenian
Sketches," excellent! "Washington Notes," 
unique! The poem to Marinda, fresh from a
loving heart, was justly due to memory, as she
holds a sacred part with all the good and true
and I fain would add my tribute of sincere
praises too. "Spring!" Beautiful, vernal queen, 
crowned with bays supernal, by Royalty well
sung, subject most prolific for ready pen or
tongue. It sent my pulses bounding to read
its praises o'er, and hum that old song over, oft
trilled in days of yore, when but a very child-
ling on the threshold of life's door. Thanks
for the inspiration, 'tis worthy of a King, to
stir the chords of memory, folded beneath
time's wing, till there comes a grand rehear-
sal of life's early days in spring, and grateful
thanks we render to our Sister Poet King. 
					L. M. HEWLINGS. 
	Atchison, May 19th, 1886.


The women suffragists seem to be quite en-
couraged upon the whole by the recent for-
tunes of their cause. The slowest and hard-
est place is perhaps Massachusetts.—Salem
Observer.

	The Indians of Alaska are skillful silver-
smiths, and their silver bracelets are in de-
mand. A lame workman is in special repute;
he sells dozens of bracelets at good prices on
the arrival of each steamer. This Indian is a 
very rapid workman; from a piece of coin he
will make a beautifully chased ring in an hour
or so with his rude tools.


178						WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.		
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
 o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to

			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	MAY 15, 1886.


﻿OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	One can realize most fully when absent from
Zion or the valleys of the mountains what a
power in the hands of the women of this Church
a newspaper is. We are well aware that many of
our sisters think very little of the "WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT," and look upon it as too insignificant
for them to patronize, or even read, but they do
not comprehend its importance, if they did, they
would be anxious to sustain it by their influence,
and by subscription as well. People open their
eyes in wonder when one tells them the Mormon
women publish a paper, and were we to mention
all the facts in our possession concerning this mat-
ter collected since we have been roaming
abroad in the Eastern States it would fill a book.
	The fifty copies we took from here were given
away during the first few weeks and we have many
orders to fill of single copies promised when we
shall return, at which time we intend to use our
utmost exertions to secure more subscribers. How
is it that our sisters are not alive to the fact that
the little "EXPONENT" proclaims the doctrines of
the Church from a woman's point of view, the
very side of the question that is agitating Con-
gress, etc., at the present time. Is it not legiti-
mate to pay money towards circulating a paper to
explain principles and doctrines and defend
woman's position on the question of plural mar-
 riage giving woman's own testimony? There
are very few sisters who actually come in contact
with the women of the world to give verbal tes-
timony, but they have, through this channel the op-
portunity of expressing their views and opinions
in favor of the practice of an unpopular principle,
and that testimony, if it be genuine, has its effect
notwithstanding the opposition that seems so
strong at present. Thoughtful women who see and
deplore the condition of society are impressed
with the eternal truths that have been received
and embraced by the Latter-day Saints and it is
possible to bear strong testimony to men and
women in high places through the pages of the
"WOMAN'S EXPONENT." The sisters should
awake to this fact. Since we have been absent we
might have given away thousands of copies of
the EXPONENT had we been provided with them,
and it attracts particular attention because it is
by "Mormon' women.
	The agents for the papers in all the wards and
settlements, and all who are interested in the
spread of truth and the growth of Zion, should
double their diligence at this critical time in the
history of the Church, and see what can be done
among the faithful ones to secure more subscrib-
ers, that the influence of Mormon women may be
extended, and the women of the world who are
unenlightened in regard to the motives, methods
and practices of this people may have the privil-
ege of the experiences and testimonies given on
this important principle of our religion. Remem-
ber, this number closes the fourteenth volume, and
the next number will commence the fifteenth
volume, when the young and timid maiden is just


entering into the broader field of usefulness, and
comes to more mature thought and development.
Trusting it may be so with our dear little EXPON-
ENT, we would entreat our sisters to give this
silent messenger of their views and expressions
more liberal patronage and careful attention in
the near future.


[Column 1]
		﻿WASHINGTON JOTTINGS.

	It is very difficult out of so much material to
know which will be the most interesting to the
readers of the Exponent, but we will try to touch
briefly on some of the most important events now
in progress or just past. Easter festivals were
pretty generally celebrated. Easter lilies, and
other flowers of the choicest varieties were
plentifully used to decorate and the great abund-
ance of Easter cards and gifts were as varied as
the tastes of the purchasers. The Roman Catho-
lics celebrations surpass all others in point of
grandeur and imposing effects, and consequently
draw great crowds of people to see the ornamenta-
tion. Early morning masses were the first ex-
ercises and afterwards services for the people and
sermons with the most impressive music. Easter
Sunday is the great festival of the Resurrection,
and all the pomp and ceremony possible, one
would imagine, is observed to represent the risen
Christ.  The candles burning among the most
beautiful lilies and foliage lend a sort of enchant-
ment to the scene and the rich music and cere-
monials of the robed priests and nuns are all cal-
culated to produce solemnity and awaken senti-
ment in the hearts of those who have not known
a “better way,” a more sublime method of recog-
nition of the Savior's ascension. The sanctuaries
of the churches were most elaborately decorated
and brilliantly lighted. The carol singing was
full of melody, and the children in white with
their long veils and bouquets of flowers, march-
ing through the aisles of the Church were a lovely
and imposing sight.
	Another very pretty practice, and one very in-
teresting to the children is egg rolling. Monday
after Easter large numbers of children gather
on the White House grounds and enjoy this annu-
al custom of rolling Easter eggs down the grassy
knolls. They take a lunch out with them and
have a regular pic-nic on the grass and thoroughly
enjoy the sport. This year we were told Presi-
dent Cleveland shook hands with hundreds of
these happy little people.
	Now the gay season after Lent has begun and
a great variety of entertainments are already on
the tapis. One of the most unique entertainments
now open is “The Village Fair at the W. L. I.
Corps Armory. Like the Fairs in England it was
opened by the ’Squire, who made a speech in
“bonbastic phrase.” He was a jolly looking,
stout English ’Squire in breeches and hose, short
of breath followed by a troop of village maidens
One of the distinctive features of the evening was
the appearance of the great physician to the
Emperor of all the Chinas, who performed magic
tricks and exploited the great cures effected by
his nostrums. Strolling players, a Turkish
booth and the white Elephant of Burmah and a
shadow pantomine were attractive parts of the
show. Another famous social event is the Kirmes
which was given at the National Theatre. The
affair was managed by leading society ladies.
There were a variety of dances given in costnme
the Tyrolean by sixty dancers all in the peasant
holiday dress of the Tyrols, then the flower
dance—thirty two young ladies as flowers and
twelve as bees.  Of the flowers there were eight
poppies, eight daisies, eight roses, eight violets.
Then followed the Swedish in costume, Indian
dance composed of young people of the families of
Senators and Representatives, Minuet, Japanese,
and Gypsy dances. On the stage were the musici-
ans and four booths, the central portion being oc-

[Column 2]
cupied by the ladies of the committee. On the
left of the stage was the Oriental booth and ad-
joining was the gypsy encampment.
	There have been two deaths recently of dis-
tinguished Roman Catholic clergyman. Father
Ryan well known as the “Poet Priest” died on 
the 22nd of April in Louisville He distinguished
himself recently as a lecturer,but as an author he is
more widely and favorably known.  The writer
while traveling in the East during the past winter
heard some very interesting incidents concerning
the deceased, and become much interested
in his poetry.  The poems most admired
by the masses are “The Conquered Banner"
and “The Sword Of Lee.” After the
funeral exercises in Louisville, the remains were
taken to Mobile. The last tribute laid upon his
coffin was an immense passion cross of lilies sur-
mounted by a Niel rose crown and resolutions
were read by Gen. Alpheus Baker. These reso-
lutions are something very different from those
ordinarily prepared for like occasions.
	The other priest alluded to as having passed
away was Father Maguire,whose funeral services
were solemnized in the Church of St. Aloysius in
this city.  Arch bishop Gibbons and many priests,
about fifty in number, were present.
	That which will interest our readers most
is of quite a dfferent character to the events al-
ready alluded to.	
	The arguments before the Supreme Court of
the United States in the case of Apostle Lorenzo
Snow begun April 28th, and continued two
days. The opening of the case was made by Hon.
F. S. Richards, and while listening to the presen-
tation we could not help feeling a good degree of
pride in our young friend and brother for the
masterly manner in which he laid the matter be-
fore the Chief Justice and his associate judges.
He covered the ground carefully not failing in
a single particular. He was followed by George
Ticknor Curtis, Esquire, an eminent lawyer and
author of several standard books, a man held in
very high esteem in literary and social circles and
a man thoroughly versed in the Law. He made a
grandly eloquent and pathetic appeal, as well as
presenting logical and unanswerable arguments
on all the points in question. His manner was
earnest, impressive and thoroughly genuine, he
evidently spoke from the depths of his heart.
His speech has since been published in pamphlet
form, and a part of Mr. Richards’ along with it.
It was a brilliant effort and plea for justice and
religions liberty and rights of conscience, and
we trust copies of it will be widely circulated.
	The Assistant Attorney General represented the
government, and his speech throughout was bitter,
and some parts of it scathing in the extreme. He
seemed to forget the dignity of the position he
occupied, and of the temple of justice in which he
stood and the august presence of the Judges be-
fore whom he was arguing for this free and glori-
ous government, one might have thought that he
was totally oblivious to all save the simple fact
that he stood there not to interpret the law and
ask that it be observed or enforced, but to vent
his own spleen upon an unpopular people, and
pour forth a tirade of abuse such as we trust has
never before been heard at the most exalted tri-
bunal of this great and free Republic. Mr. Rich-
ards closed and submitted the case in such a calm,
fervent and unimpassioned manner, after all the
taunts and aspersions of his opponent, that it
would seem impossible for any one who possessed
an honest soul not to discover the difference be-
tween the spirit of the two arguments. Mr.
Richards deserves the highest encomiums of
praise from the people he represents, for the very
able and impressive speeches made in this im-
portant case before the Supreme Court of the
United States. 		
	The hearing before the Sub-Committee of the
Judiciary of the House of Representatives fol-


[Column 1]
lowed close upon the case in the Supreme
Court.  The first argument on our side of the
question was made by Mr. Chandler, attorney at
law.  He was very positive and made strong
points, bringing forward abundant testimony
from standard legal books to substantiate
his assertions.  Baskin had already been granted
a hearing, and had made many erroneous state-
ments, that required contradiction.
	The next day F. S. Richards and A. M. Gibson
occupied the time, covering, it would seem, the
entire ground in the most able and dignified man-
ner.  Their arguments were deep, far reaching
and sound, and ought to have impressed all who
listened to them with their genuineness and mat-
ter of fact style of logic.  They stuck to the sub-
ject, not rambling off into unknown regions for
the sake of effect, or skimming over the ground
without plunging into its depths, but faithfully
summing up the whole matter in brief, so that all
who were not blind might see the situation clearly.
	George F. Boutwell, formerly a member of
Congress, from Mass., and also Governor of that
grand old State, made one of the most eloquent
speeches that it was possible for anyone to make
on the unconstitutionality of the Edmunds bill.
His age, his tone of voice, his prestige, and above
all his impressive eloquence of style, all told
powerfully in favor of those he represented.  He
was followed by Mr. Chandler on some particular
points in question, who referred to authorities on
the subject, and the next in order was Mr. Baskin,
the representative of the so-called “Liberals” in
Utah, who gave his startling and bombastic tirade
on Monday, May 3rd; it lasted four whole hours.
He pictured the “Mormons” as the most despic-
able of all human beings.  To hear him talk, they
are too wicked to be suffered to live on the earth,
yet Mr. Baskin stood there and told  them that he
had lived right among this people for twenty years.
O consistency, where hast thou fled?  The man
literally wore himself out abusing the “Mor-
mons;” he completely exhausted all his energies,
physical and mental, and on his face was the look
of abject despair as he closed his speech, and one
would suppose from his manner he was also
ready to give up the ghost.  The next morning
Hon. Joseph A. West, of Ogden, occupied a part
of the time, and refuted many of the unjust and
cruel aspersions cast upon the “Mormon” people
by Mr. Baskin, who is not at all above associating
with our people at home, but in Washington one
would suppose to hear him that he could not look
upon a Mormon with any degree of complacency.
Our Utah Delegate to Congress, Mr. Caine, made
a long and exhaustive argument, meeting and ex-
plaining away all the objective points made by Mr.
Baskin.  It positively seemed as if the opponent
had not a pin’s head to stand upon.
	Throughout the entire proceedings the Chair-
man, the Hon. John Randolph Tucker, main-
tained the most perfect equanimity and good na-
ture.  He seemed not only willing, but anxious to
arrive at an understanding of all the matter in
dispute on either side, and to accord the best op-
portunity possible for free and full discussion of
the subject.  He deserves gratitude for the unpre-
judiced and unbiased spirit he manifested through-
out the entire proceedings.
	One important fact, that impressed itself most
powerfully upon the writer, was that the principles
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ were being taught
in the Capitol of the nation, and in the Judicial
department, the Temple of Justice, the Supreme
Court, the highest tribunal to which appeal can be
made in this free and enlightened country; also in
the Committee room of the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives, and everything brought
up against us by the opponents of “Mormonism”
only gave greater opportunity to defend the peo-
ple and advocate and explain the principles, and
institutions that exist in the Church, surely “God
moves in a mysterious way His wonders to per-

[Column 2]
form.”  There are many interesting items con-
nected with these hearings that may be summed
up at another time, but lest our readers tire of
these topics, we forbear for the present, hoping
when at home again to devote more time to the
articles which have always been sent off in haste
while journeying from place to place, or sojourn-
ing at the Capitol.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	GOLDEN WEDDING.

	The fiftieth anniversary of the marriage of
Elder Jospeh Horne and his wife, Mary Isabella,
was celebrated at the old homestead in the Four-
teenth Ward of this city, on the 9th of May, with
family and friends, and was a most unique and en-
joyable gathering.  It is a rare occurrence in the
lives of married people to live half a century with-
out one or the other passing away; and perhaps
rarer still to have so numerous and noble a pos-
terity as Bro. and Sister Horne have around them.
They were married on the 9th of May, 1836, and
two months afterwards they were baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints by Elder Orson Hyde, so that the
date of their marriage and baptism is within the
same year.  A sumptuous dinner was prepared by
the children at the paternal mansion, and many
sons and daughters and grandchildren sat down
to the abundant repast.  The evening was spent
in social, family enjoyment, and the grandchildren
entertained the older ones with music, recitations
and songs.
	On Monday evening the family and many of 
their relatives, nearly a hundred in all, assembled at
their residence, though many friends were not
able to attend, and sent flowers, gifts and good wishes
instead.  Of those who had desired to be present,
and were not well enough, was our beloved and
venerable sister and mother in Israel, Eliza R. 
Snow Smith.  The Eldest son being absent in
Arizona, Joseph, the eldest one present, read to
the assembly letters of congratulations from
particular friends who were absent addressed to
the venerable pair on their having reached a
half century of united married happiness,
and these letters also contained expressions
of good wishes and blessings.  A telegram of
sincere congratulation was also received from
Mrs. E. B. Wells, sent from Washington, D. C.
Following these a presentation was made by
Elder Joseph Horne to his father, with a few per-
tinent remarks, of an elegant gold watch and
chain from his children, and a handsom charm
locket from his granchildren.  To the mother he
made a presentation of a watch chain and slide
with cameo,, and a pair of gold rimmed
spectacles from her children, and a heavy
gold ring of three pearls, from her
grandchildren.  One of the daughters,
Mrs. M. H. Tingey, read a very appropriate poem
written for the occassion by Mrs. E. H. Woodman-
see.  Dr. E. S. Barney read an address in behalf
of the sisters, and presented from
several of them a handsome gold thim-
ble.  From other friends Mrs. Horne
received several other valuable presents—
a gold collar button, with diamond, pretty charm
for watch chain, gold and moss agate, silver and
gold tankard, silver and gold spoonholder, gold
scarf pin, and other pretty and useful articles.
	The only person present at the golden wedding
who had witnessed the marriage ceremony of the
host and hostess, fifty years before, was the sister
of Mrs. Horne, Mrs. Harriet Ellis of Bountiful.
Bro. and Sister Horne have had a very large
family—fifteen children in all, ten of whom are
living, all honored and useful members of society,
sixty-seven grandchildren and three great-grand-
children.  The opening speech, was made by acting
Bishop Brown, who mentioned in his remarks
that it had been talked of that an entertain-
ment should be arranged by the ward at the hall,

[Column 2]
but it was given up when it was known
that the family had already made their 
preparations.  Interesting remarks were
also made by Bishop Weiler, and
Brother Geo. Price.  To these Bro. Horne re-
sponded in an appropriate speech.  Some of the
ladies also made short speeches Sisters S. M.
Kimball, E. Howard and Sister Swartz.
	There were many floral offerings, gifts of friends,
choice flowers were tastefully used to decorate the
rooms, and the portratis of Brother and Sister
Horne were wreathed around with smilax and
myrtle artistically arranged.  The bride of fifty years
was dressed in a handsome brown silk dress
with real lace collar and cuffs and she looked so
fresh and well preserved one could scarcely be-
lieve that she had lived half a century as wife and
mother, and had passed through so many of the
changing scenes of life and the drivings and mob-
bings which the Saints have suffered from time
to time. 
	We join with the many genuine friends 
of Brother and Sister Horne in
wishing them continued prosperity, happin-
ness and long life with their numerous
and noble family.  we expect to publish in our
next issue the poem written for this happy occa-
sion by our esteemed poet sister Emily H. Wood-
mansee.


﻿OUR CHILDREN.

	A pitiful and also very instructive story was re-
lated to me the other evening by a lady friend. It
was of a little girl, who, from birth, was the idol-
ized pet of her father, mother, relatives and
friends. When she was four years old, she was 
presented with a fine baby brother. Being of a
gentle, retiring nature, the little girl listened with
marked attention to the praises and compliments
showered upon the new baby, without giving utter-
ance to her own opinion of him, or the feelings
his presence created with her.
	Not long after the birth of the baby boy, the
parents were alarmed at the discovery that their
cherished first born, who up to that time had been
remarkably well, was gradually failing in health,
and to render the matter still more serious, no
clue could be obtained to the cause of the child’s
decline, though the parents employed their best
efforts, assisted by competent medical advisers.
The child could give no reason herself why she
no longer had any desire to eat, why her play-
things were all uninteresting to her, or why she
seemed nervous and restless in her sleep; yet cer-
tain it was that she had changed from a happy,
rosy little girl to a pensive, pale one, and still
grew paler and weaker every day.
	She was one day quietly sitting by herself, as
children often do, when her father drew very near
to her without attracting her attention. He
watched her carefully, and listened earnestly to
catch the words she was uttering, hoping to find
some trace of the cause of her late apathy, and he
was rewarded. He heard her say, “Tommy is
everything now, everybody loves Tommy, but
they don’t care anything about me any more!"
	The truth burst suddenly upon the father’s
mind—his little girl was pining for the love she
thought she had lost in the advent of her baby
brother. She had given no sign of vengeful feel-
ings, as some little ones do who consider their
rights infringed upon, but her sensitive nature
could not well endure the sudden change of hear-
ing and seeing another take the first place in every
one’s affection, which had formerly been her own.
It was a well timed and most fortunate discovery.
The parents took good care that their little
daughter did not again feel the want of love and
attention, and she was soon nursed and petted
back to her wonted health and happiness.
	When I heard this story it forcibly reminded me
of  twolovely little girls who recently lived near


me. Both were very sweet in their dispositions
and smart to learn, but in some respects the
younger surpassed the elder. It often occurred to
me that too much notice was taken of these differ-
ences, by those who loved the children best. I
never looked into the face of the elder sister with-
out seeing there a pale, soft melancholy, which
always won my sympathy, and I never listened to
recitals of the younger one's superiority without
wishing in my heart that something might also be
told concerning the worth of the other.
	These are subjects well worth careful considera-
tion. Little hearts are often so sensitive that they
grieve over very little things. The never ending
variety which exists in all the creations of our
Father, is no where more noticeable than among
our little ones. Their faces, their voices and
their dispositions all differ in one way or another,
giving to each certain marks of individuality.
	What a study is here offered for parents! How
to train their children that each one may be most
useful and happy in his or her particular sphere;
how to measure for each a just amount of time for
work, for study and for play; a reasonable share
of reproof, without which scarcely any child can
be wisely reared; and enough and no more of en-
couragement and praise.
	Very much is contained in the Bible, Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants that will
greatly aid parents in the all important duties of
training their children, and every mother should
seek diligently to learn the revealed word of the
Lord on this weighty subject.
								LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CHAFF.

	Women are either fat or scraggy in New York,
and in full dress resemble either the fat lady of the
circus or an anatomical study in bones.
	The New York women have pretty faces.
	English women are well formed; Scotch are
larger boned, and Irish (in the north) raw boned.
	American women have small hands and feet;
British women have large hands and feet. The 
former cannot walk, while the latter are good pe-
destrians.
	The Edinburgh women are among the neatest
and most tasty dressers in the world. They are
also decidedly original. In New York and
Washington women run into styles, and you may
see hundreds with the same things. This is not
true of Edinburgh. The costumes are remark-
ablely neat, differ greatly, and what is still more
remarkable, they are all very quiet.
	The Edinburgh men are homely, generally loud
dressers, and few of them have good figures, in
which they contrast greatly with the women, who
are pretty and exceptionally well formed.
	Scotchmen, with rare exceptions, do not know
how to treat women. They are rude and boorish
compared with women, while the women make
themselves so cheap that the tendency is to still
greater rudeness among the poorer classes in Eng-
land and Ireland. The women, as a rule, are
very badly treated, especially when compared with,
the manner in which New Englanders view
women or appear to view them.
	In America the prettier women are among the
wealthier classes. In Great Britain they seem to
be among the poorer, and for this reason so many
are ruined at an early age, and in the streets
which they frequent one is astonished to find so
great a number of lovely women hopelessly lost.
	No wonder we can point with such pride to
what civilized monogany has done for women. We 
should be proud of it indeed!!


LETTER FTOM ARIZONA.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I believe you have, through the columns of your
paper, extended an invitation to the different set-
tlements to write to you occasionally.  When you


hear from us if you always hear something abou
a surprise.  I hope you will not think we have
nothing to do but study up something of the kind.
I trust our hearts are at least partially alive to the
duties in the great work in which we are engaged,
and as our motto has always been to look on the
bright side, though the clouds may hang heavy
above us, if we will watch and wait we are sure to
see the silver lining, our lives are composed of
sunshine and shadow and an agreeable sur-
prise is like a ray of light across our paths.
	April 6th the members of Y. L. M. I. A. with
united guests from the Relief Society, and our
honored Stake president C. Layton and lady,
also a number of brethren from the ward met to
present Sister Nancy M. Rollins (their late Presi-
dent) with a token of respect.  The company
were there seated around the hall, and the tables
were spread with the good things of the land ere
she made her appearance.  She was met at the door
by President Janie Wright and Counselors who
gave her a hearty welcome and led her to a seat,
she was then presented with a nice dress pattern,
and appropriate resolutions of respect were read
by Counselor Almeda Welker, to which she re-
sponded with a short address.  Said she would
not attempt to describe her feelings but could 
truly say she was surprised and pleased to meet
with us on this occasion.
	The company were there seated around the
table and all partook until they were satisfied,
after which the programme was engaged in
as   follows:    songs,    recitations,    select
readings and the Young Ladies' manuscript paper
was read by Counselor Louisa Peel.  President
Layton and Brother Weech of Pima made some
very interesting remarks.
	President Janie Wright thanked the company
for their kind attention and hoped they had been
well repaid for coming.  Singing.  Benediction
by Bro. Peel.
	On the evening of May 8th the Primary Asso-
 ciation gave a surprise to their late President,
Sister Annie Packer.  The evening was spent in 
singing recitations picnic etc. both old and young
seemed to enjoy themselves very much.
	The Relief Society is in good running order,
and take us all around I believe we are doing as
well as we can under the circumstances.
	ALMEDIA WELKER, Secretary pro tem.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		SMITHFIELD.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a brief report from the Relief So-
ciety of this ward might be of interest to you
as well as your numerous readers, we very re-
spectfully submit the following:
	At a meeting held on the 21st of December
last, 1885, a reorganization of our Relief So-
ciety was effected, this reorganization having
been made necessary by the removal from our
ward of the late esteemed President, Sister A.
Barber. The following officers were unani-
mously sustained: Sister E. T. Juchaw, Presi-
dent; Sister M. Williams and M. A. Hylliard,
Counselors; Mary Woodruff, Secretary; Sister
Margaret Story, Treasurer.
	The association is in a prosperous condition,
being well united, and determined to press for-
ward in good works and fulfill the object for
which the Society was organized.
				MARY WOODRUFF, Sec.

			HEBER CITY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A conference of the Relief Society of the
Wasatch Stake of Zion was held in the Heber
City Hall, May 7th, 1886.  Present on the

[Column 2]
stand were President Emma Brown and Coun-
selors, the presidents of a number of the differ-
ent branches, President Hatch and a number 
of the brethren. Meeting was opened in the
usual manner, prayer being offered by Bishop
R. S. Duke. The minutes of the former con-
ference were read and adopted. The reports,
both written and verbal, were well rendered,
showing an increase of members since last re-
ports.
	Prest. Emma Brown and Counselors gave
their usual motherly advice, dwelling strongly
on the subject of rearing and training our
young in the proper path.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of
Sister Mary Bronson, who so efficiently occu-
pied the position of Stake Secretary, and who
departed this life February 9th, 1886, were
read and adopted.
	The congregation was addressed by Prest.
Hatch, Coun. T. H. Giles and Bishop, R. S.
Duke, who encouragingly exhorted the sisters 
to continue faithful to the cause they had es-
poused. Prest. Brown, after a few closing re-
marks, announced that conference would be
adjourned for six months. Singing. Bene-
diction by Prest. Hatch.
	JOSEPHINE C. JONES, Sec. pro tem.

			HYRUM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps a line from Hyrum
might be acceptable I send a synopsis of the
18th anniversary of the Relief Society, which
was held at 10 a. m. in the public hall, Hyrum, 
May 8th, 1886. The hall was neatly decorated
for the occasion by the young ladies. There
were present, Prest. Adaline Barber, Sisters
Zina D. Young, Crowther, Pike, Woolf and
Turner. Bishop S. M. Molen and Counselors
several other brethren, and a large attendance
of members of the Relief Society and Y. L. 
M. I. A. After opening exercises the report
was laid before the meeting and accepted and
officers sustained as they stood before.
	Sister Zina D. Young addressed the meeting 
on training our children aright, said a child's 
education should begin as soon as it is born.
It is the duty of every mother to instil into her
children the principles of the Gospel; spoke of
the persecutions that are heaped upon us as a
people. If we have faith we will come out all
right. Also spoke in behalf of the Hospital.
	Prest. A. Barber said, if we are faithful we
have nothing to fear, the Lord has promised to
be our battle axe. Teach your sons and
daughters to keep the commandments of God.
Your report is excellent, always keep a copy
of your report. Gave very good counsel on
different subjects. Sisters Woolf, Pike and
Crowther each spoke a short time; were pleased
to meet with the sisters in Hyrum, and to hear
the excellent instructions.
	Miss S. Thorn of Brigham city next suug
a song entitled "Some day I'll wander back
again,"
	Patriarch O. N. Liljenquist gave very good
and fatherly counsel, exhorted all to faithful-
ness.
	Singing. Benediction by Bishop Molen.
	At the close of the meeting the tables were
spread on the stand, and a very nice dinner was
partaken of by a large majority of the
brethren and sisters. The feast was for the
benefit of the widows, and missionaries wives 
and the aged sisters. H. A. Shaw, E. Peter-
son M. Neilson and S. McBride were the com-
mittee for the occasion and they spared no
pains to make all happy, all went off well and
every one felt that it was good to be there.
		Very respectfully,
			N. M. NEILSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	OPINIONS OF A GENTILE

	ON THE EDMUNDS BILL 

TO THE EDITOR OF THE EVENING POST:
	Sir:—Your editorial of Saturday evening,
on the Anti-Mormon Bill that has just passed
the Senate, evinces the fact that you are not
ready to countenance a law that looks to the
confiscation of a religious community's proper-
ty because some of its members are alleged
criminals.
	The proposition to put fourteen United
States officials into a religious corporation,
against thirteen honest fanatics, avowedly to
outvote the representatives of the rightful
owners of the property, and thereby to steal, in
the name of the United States Government,
subtsance that belongs to the Mormon com-
munity as justly as Trinity Church belongs to 
the Protestant Episcopal Church, seems a cum-
brous and expensive mode of robbery.
	It differs, however, not in spirit—only in its
modus operandi—from the proposition of one 
of the leading lights in Massachusetts theology
and ethics, who proposed to set a wateh for
William Penn and his co-religionists, that they
might be captured before landing, their sub-
stance taken, and their persons enslaved. The
early New England saint thought it sufficient-
ly stimulating to the enterprise of his co-saints,
to point out the fact that the pestilent Quakers
were rich, especially their leader, and that
their substance should be laid hold of for the
use and benefit of the orthodox. He did not
propose to limit the expedition to a bare ma-
ority, in order to accomplish the robbery; nor
did he propose to make the thieves salaried
officers of the Commonwealth; but he did pro-
pose that the Commonwealth should stand by
and protect them by their great moral worth
and godly influence. 
	Political and ethical evolution have wrought
their refinements since the days of which I 
have spoken, and Mr. Edmunds, a New Eng-
land saint, adjusted to the environment of
modern hypocrisy, proposes to rob a whole
community because some of its members are 
alleged to be guilty of "lascivious cohabita-
tion;”a thing that he knows is common through-
out the United States, yea, in his own town,
his own State, and in an aggravated form, in
the great capital, where a strict enforcement
of the law would place some of those who
helped to make it, behind the bars.
	Should the House pass this bill, and it be-
come a law, its reactive influence will be so
great and rapid, that in the near future the
Mormons will have to be enumerated by mil-
lions, instead of by hundreds of thousands, as
at present.
	Legislation so palpably unjust, unconstitu-
tional and tyrannous, is sure to defeat the sub-
ject aimed at, and raise up friends and support-
ors of the persecuted. 
	To pass a law that would compel the public 
registration of all marriages in Utah, and
other Territories, so that the Mormon so-called
celestial marriages could not be kept secret,
and thus facilitate the trial and conviction of
those guilty of an indictable offence, would be
the work of statesmen, But to enact this in-
famous measure, which would turn loose upon
an honest, industrious, religious community a
band of legalized, salaried robbers, would be
something that ought to cause the modern
Turk to hang his head in guilty shame.
	Furthermore: If this bill should become a
law, it will give the Supreme Court a finer job
of hair-splitting and “outside work to establish
its constitutionality, than did the Reynolds’
case, under the Cullom-Poland law; which de-
cision was confessedly outside the Constitu-
tion.’ ”
	The “perpetual emigration fund,” the ob-
jective point of this legislation, is, in the

[Column 2]
rictest ecclesiastical sense, a “religious fund,”
gathered in strict, voluntary obedience to the
divine law of tithing, as given by Moses: 
Consecrated by the sweat and tears and pray-
ers of the fanatics who earned and gave it for
the purpose of "gathering the faithful to
Zion."
	The Constitution says:  "Congress shall make
no law respecting an establishment of religion,
or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”
	This bill proposes to violate both ends of this
Constitutional prohibition. It not only pro-
poses to “prohibit the free exercise” of Mor-
monisin, but to "establish,” regulate and ad-
minister the ism.
	The Supreme Court will hardly say that
money—which is always and everywhere ortho-
dox—voluntarily gathered according to the
Mosaical law of tithing for religious uses, is
not “religion” in the constitutional sense.
	If this goes through, and the Supreme
Court sustains its constitutionality, what is to
hinder the Romanists of New York from go-
ing to Albany, in solid phalanx, where they
could hire cheap legislators enough to assist
them in passing a law, giving the State, thus
Romanised, the power to administer the funds
of Trinity Church corporation—which is no
more genuinely religious, nor honest, in its
holy purposes than is the Mormon emigration
fund—in the interest of the State, by Roman
Priests, appointed by a Romanised Governor?
What Rome could do in New York and
Louisiana, Methodit-ism and Baptist-ism could 
do in many of the other States.
	BALLARD S. DUNN,
Hotel St. George, Brooklyn, N. Y.


[Column 1]
		MORMON WOMEN.

	It is known to comparatively few people, 
perhaps, that there is a commission of Mormon
women from Utah in the city. They seek re-
dress for wrongs in the names of over 2,000
ladies who assembled at Salt Lake City in
mass meeting March 6, 1886, representing the
wives, mothers, sisters and daughters of the
whole territory. A Republican representative 
met the commission by appointment at the
headquarters on Grant place yesterday after
noon and confronted four well-favored agreea-
ble and intelligent women. Mrs. Emeline B.
Wells, the editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
published semi-monthly at Salt Lake City, 
seemed by common consent to be the chairman. 
Mrs. Wells is the plural wife of Gen. D. H. 
Wells, who was counsel to Brigham Young. 
Mrs. Wells was born a Puritan in Massa-
chusetts, but was converted with her mother
and went to Nauvoo, Ill., in 1884, and was
married in Salt Lake City in 1852. Dr. 
Ellen B. Ferguson was born at Cambridge, 
Eng.; was married in London, and came to
this country in 1875, in consequence of em-
bracing the Mormon faith in Illinois. Her
husband died in 1880, and both were Mormons, 
but were never in polygamy. Mrs. Emily S. 
Richards and Mrs. Josephine West were born
in the Mormon church of parents who lived 
in polygamy. They were young women, have
each been married several years, and have had
numerous children, and Mrs. West has an in-
fant with her. 
	In answer to a question concerning their
mission to the capital, Mrs. Wells said: 
	"Our mission to Washington at this present
time is to present memorials which we brought
ourselves, being properly accredited, for the
President, the senate, and the house. The
first was delivered to the Chief Magistrate on 
April 3, when we had an interview with him; 
that to the senate was presented by Mr. Blair
on the 6th. He was selected because he
voted against the Edmunds bill, and is b[--]ides
a woman's suffragist, and ex-Gov. Long, of
Massachusetts, who is a suff[-]agist also, had

[Column 2]
charge of the document for the house, which
has been referred to the judiciary com-
mittee. In the senate the memorial was allowed 
to lie on the table, and appeared in full in
The Record of April 7." 
	"Having presented your memorial, what do
you propose to do further in the matter?" 
	"We shall do all in our power to correct
the evil and sensational reports that are daily 
being disseminated among the people of the
east from the pulpit and by the press. We
have some books and pamphlets which we will
gladly give to inquirers, and we invite in-
vestigation, and are ready to answer ques-
tions." 
	"What is the condition of affairs in Utah
that compel you to make this protest?" 
	"The Edmunds law, which was passed in
1882," said Dr. Ferguson, "with a view of
prohibiting and doing away with polygamy,
has been the means of inflicting much suffer-
ing upon the people who do not come within 
the penal scope of the law, through the malad-
ministration of officials. As will be seen
from our memorial we complain that young 
children are brought into court and plied with
indecent questions; tender women in delicate
health are asked impertinent aud insulting
questions in court, and many of our leading
men and priests of Mormonism are driven into
hiding by the exactions of the officials. The
juries are composed of men known to be an-
tagonistic to Mormonism, and no Mormon is
permitted to sit upon juries. The men and
women living in polygamous marriage have
been disenfranchised, but monogamous Mor-
mons, men and womn, still vote. It is not 
true that the women vote at the dictation of
Mormon officials. The ballot is secret and no
one has any means of knowing how another
votes. The Gentile ring in Utah," continued
Dr. Ferguson, "is not making a crusade
against polygamy but is agitating matters and
moving for adverse legislation in order to get
the local and elective offices of the terri-
tory under their control. The elec-
tive and territorial offices are now all held
by Mormons. Should the ring succeed in dis-
enfranchising monogamous Mormons, although
greatly in the minority, they would manipu-
late territorial affairs, to suit themselves. All
we can do to foil the political conspirators is
to enlighten public sentiment on all that per-
tains to Mormons and Mormonism." 
	In reply to n question as to what made the
Church of the Latter-day Saints so fascinating 
to women, Mrs. Wells resumed. "We feel that
the doctrines are the truth, and feel like cling-
ing to them at any sacrifice. I know there is
more liberty for women in the Mormon Church
than in any other in the world. The women
vote not only upon all political questions, but
upon religious tenets as well. We believe in 
a pre-existence and future state of progression
and the discipline of plural marriage is a cor-
rective to supreme selfishness. The great wrong
congress is doing in enforcing the Edmunds
law is the breaking up of families, the ruin of 
hearts and homes, and disgracing the women
and making their children outcasts. 
	"Mormons believe that a man can love more
than one woman just as a mother's love is not 
confined to one child," said Mrs. Richards.
"My husband and I talked the matter all over
before marriage. We both came from parents
who lived in polygamy, but we were the chil-
dren of the first wives, and no Mormon
youth would marry a girl who was not a good
Mormon in all that the word implies. We
were born and brought up in the church, and
when we arrived at years of responsibility we
adopted the faith as our own. We have seen
the power given the saints; that the Lord
prospered them in temporal things as well as
in spiritual things."


Mrs. West is the daughter of an apostle of
the Church, and avers that if she had a score
of children would bring them all up to be
Latter-day Saints. She is enthuiastic about
the superior principles of her religion, and
says Mormons are not living for the present
only, but for the glory of eternity, and are
willing to make sacrifices here for the future
exaltation.—Washington National Republican.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Large charity doth never soil, but only
whitens soft white hands.
	Charities should be diffused. Grain will
not grow if piled in a heap; it must be
scattered.
	A bill of-fare book is a good thing. A
plain, strong blank book is what is needed.
Every day when the morning’s work is done,
sit down and write therein what you will have
for the next dinner, supper and breakfast. In
this way a pleasant variety and a better class
of cooking will be secured and all needed
preparations can be made methodically, in-
stead of a harum-scarum, hurried manner at
the last moment. This is good for all; but es-
pecially useful where a servant does the cook-
ing.
	“The Punishment of Children” was the sub-
ject of Prof. Felix Adler’s recent lecture be-
fore the Society of Ethical Culture, in Phila-
delphia. Professor Adler said:
	"Never punish a child in anger. Let the
anger burning within you subside. An angry
person is always liable to overshoot the mark—
can never be perfectly just. Whether corporal
punishment is ever admissible is an open
question. There are reasons outside of senti-
ment against it. Corporal punishment tends
to brutalize a child; it tends to make children
cowards and it blunts the sense of shame.”
	Many a tired housewife  thinks that when
she is able to keep help she will lie abed in the
morning till breakfast is ready and take it
easy. But when she gets help, and good
help, too, she will find that the work of the
household will not go to suit her,
unless she goes before it and through it and
all around it herself. If the mistresss
takes a long morning nap, the maid is
pretty likely to conclude that a morning’s
nap is nice for her, too; and the result is a de-
layed breakfast, spoiled in the hurry of cook-
ing, and a general disarrangement of the morn-
ing's work to follow. It may not be a restful
thought, but it is true, that if a mistress would
have a servant prompt, tidy, honest, and
thorough, she must herself set a worthy ex-
ample of all these qualities. She must be up be-
times in the morning to lead and plan and di-
rect the starting of the household machinery.
A company of soldiers won’t accomplish much
unless the captain rides at their head.—The
Housekeeper.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Alice Freeman, president of Wellesley
College, will be the essayist at the May meet-
ing of the R[--]nd Table Club. 
	Miss Catherine Craft, of New Jersey, in
celebrating recently her ninety-eighth birthday,
recalled the fact that she had voted for Jeffer-
son for President. 
	Astronomers predict that a bright comet
will be visible just before sunrise during the
latter part of May. It is the comet of 1886"
recently discovered by Professor Barnard. 
	Three women students of Indiana Medical
College attended the lectures during the en-


tire term, and it is anticipated that they will
be formally and regularly admitted next year.
	Miss Mary E. Bird, astronomer of Carlton
College, Northfield, Minn., is at the Minnesota
educational exhibit at the Exposition, in
charge of ten clocks illustrating the time sys-
tem.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A little borax put into the water in which scarlet napkins
and red-bordered towels are to be washed will prevent
them from fading.

	When making a new carpet, always save the ravelings
for use in darning the carpet on some future day, as the
colors will match better than any yarn you are likely to
find.	

	Sugar Cookies.—Two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful o
butter, one cupful of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful o
baking powder, one nutmeg, flour enough to make a soft
batter, and a little salt.

	An excellent and simple disinfectant for sinks and waste
pipes is made by mixing one large tablespoonful of copperas
with one quart of boiling water. This solution is odorless,
and it deodorizes instantly.

	Turn lamp wicks down below the top of the tubes when
not lighted, and you will not be troubled with oil running
over on the outside of the lamps. If this caution is ob-
served, they may be kept clean and dry.

	To Make a Tough Fowl Tender.—The French have a
way of making a tough fowl tender in the roasting which is
worth following. It should be seasoned and tied up se-
curely in two thicknesses of soft white or pale brown paper,
and put into the oven half an hour earlier than the time
one would choose to assure its being done. It will steam
slowly in this way, and if delicately dredged with flour
when the paper is taken off at the end of the half hour in
a hot oven it will come out brown and easily carved. 

	Boiled Iceing.—The whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff
froth and two good sized cups of sugar, granulated pre-
ferred; pour enough water on the sugar to dissolve it, and
allow it to boil till quite thick syrup, then pour over the
whites, stirring briskly till cool. Spread on cake with a
knife previously dipped in cold water. This iceing will
not crackle when cut, and hardens in a few moments.

	Excellent Sponge Cake.—Four eggs, two cups of sugar,
two cups of flour, one cup of boiling water, two teaspoon-
fuls of yeast powder, and flavor to taste. Method: Beat
eggs and sugar to a froth,add a little at a time of the boiling
water, stirring briskly. Sift and add the first cup of flour,
put the yeast powder in the last cup of flour, sift twice to
thoroughly mix the powder; this makes a thin batter; bake
in a moderate oven. This is a good cake for dyspeptics.
	I have used the above recipes many times, and am
sure they are first class. 					M. C.


﻿OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Wanship, Summit Co., Utah, March 24th,
1885, Maria Horton, wife of Edward Horton,aged seventy-
two years. She was born at Batsall, Warwickshire, Eng-
land; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in 1851; emigrated to the United States in 1855;
came to Utah in 1860. She died in full faith of the Gos-
pel.


[Column 1]
F. Auerback & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[depiction of a hand pointing index finger to the right] CALL AND EXAMINE.

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[depiction of a hand pointing index finger to the right] Agent for Rumsey's celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country; promptly responded to.
[depiction of a hand pointing index finger to the right] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 308, SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.
[depiction of a domestic sewing table and machine in the middle with vertical text on the left and right]

[Left Column]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Right Column]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
	other Sewing Machine. It has been
	in the Market 23 Years.

	Young Brothers,
33 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building,
	SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

	Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
	MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[depiction of a hand pointing index finger to the right] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

	AT TEASDEL'S
	Will be found in the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.

